TOWN CODE
of
MORRISON, COLORADO
1996
Code current through:
Ord. 555, passed August 19, 2025
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street * Suite 310 * Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-833-226-3439 * www.amlegal.com
PREFACE
         This code of the Town of Morrison, as supplemented, contains
ordinances up to and including ordinance 555, passed August 19, 2025.
Ordinances of the Town adopted after said ordinance supersede the provisions of
this code to the extent that they are in conflict or inconsistent therewith.
Consult the Town office in order to ascertain whether any particular provision
of the code has been amended, superseded or repealed.
                     American Legal Publishing
                     Cincinnati, Ohio
ORDINANCES PENDING REVIEW FOR CODIFICATION
Listed ordinances have been passed, but they are pending review by the
publisher, and they may not amend the code of ordinances. Additionally,
ordinances listed in this section may not show the original ordinances in their
entirety. Please contact the office of the clerk if there are any questions
concerning any listed ordinances.
TOWN OF MORRISON, COLORADO
BOARD OF TRUSTEES
ADOPTING ORDINANCE
ORDINANCE NO. 268
AN ORDINANCE ADOPTING BY REFERENCE A CODIFICATION OF THE GENERAL ORDINANCES OF
THE TOWN OF MORRISON ENTITLED TOWN OF MORRISON MUNICIPAL CODE
   WHEREAS, the Board of Trustees finds and determines that codification of the
Town's ordinances will enable any interested person to find and understand the
applicable law of the Town much more quickly and efficiently than is now the
case; and
   WHEREAS, the Board of Trustees finds and determines that codification of the
Town's ordinances will greatly simplify the process of reviewing, revising and
maintaining the laws of the Town of Morrison.
NOW THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE BOARD OF TRUSTEES OF THE TOWN OF MORRISON,
COLORADO, THAT:
Section 1. Adoption. Pursuant to Title 31, Article 16, Part 2, 1973 Colorado
Revised Statutes, as amended, there is adopted by reference that certain Code
entitled Town of Morrison Municipal Code, as supplemented, containing certain
ordinances of the Town of Morrison as compiled, consolidated, codified and
indexed therein. Said Code consisting of the general and permanent ordinances
of the Town of Morrison enacted on and prior to December 3, 1996, has been
compiled and printed for the Town of Morrison, Colorado, 321 Highway 8,
Morrison, Colorado 80465, by Sterling Codifiers, Inc., 7600 Mineral Drive,
Coeur d'Alene, Idaho, 83814.
Section 2. Copies Filed. One copy of the said Code is on file in the office of
the Town Clerk of the Town of Morrison at the Morrison Town Offices, 321
Highway 8, Morrison, Colorado 80465, where the same may be inspected during
regular business hours.
Section 3. Purpose of Primary Code. The purpose of the primary Code, as
supplemented, herein adopted, is to set forth in a generally available and
updated codification the general and permanent ordinances of the Town adopted
on and prior to December 3, 1996.
Section 4. Subject Matter of Primary Code. The subject matter of the primary
Code, as supplemented, herein adopted, is the ordinances of a general and
permanent nature of the Town of Morrison adopted by Board of Trustees action
taken on or prior to December 3, 1996, together with this Ordinance No. 268,
and penalty provisions contained herein.
Section 5. Conformance of Ordinances–Conflicting Provisions. All ordinances of
a general and permanent nature adopted by the Town of Morrison on and prior to
December 3, 1996, are amended to conform to the provisions of the primary Code,
as supplemented, herein adopted; provided, however, that nothing herein
contained shall be taken or construed to repeal any ordinance of the Town of
Morrison heretofore or hereafter adopted. In the event of conflict or
inconsistency between any provision of this ordinance or of said Code herein
adopted and any provisions of any ordinance adopted after December 3, 1996, the
provision of the ordinance adopted after December 3, 1996, shall prevail.
[Image]
TOWN OF MORRISON
HOME RULE CHARTER
Passed by the Home Rule Charter Commission on July 26, 2000
Lew Stieghorst   Donna Smith   Jack Phillips
Brian Bogert   Wayne Jacobson   Allen Williams
Jamee Chambers   Kathy Dichter   Dick Scott
Endorsed by the Board of Trustees for the Town of Morrison On August 15, 2000
Kathy Dichter, Mayor   Allen Williams, Mayor Pro Tem
Dick Scott, Trustee   Lew Stieghorst, Trustee
Donna Smith, Trustee   Robert Pitts, Trustee
Jack Phillips, Trustee   
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Prefatory Synopsis
Article 1.0   General Provisions
   
1.1   Name, Boundaries
   
1.2   Purpose Of Charter
   
1.3   Form Of Government
   
1.4   Powers Of The Town
Article 2.0   Mayor, Board Of Trustees
   
2.1   Board Membership
   
2.2   Powers Of The Board
   
2.3   Qualifications
   
2.4   Terms Of Office
   
2.5   Compensation
   
2.6   Standards Of Conduct
   
2.7   Vacancies
   
2.8   Oath Of Office
   
2.9   Mayor
   
2.10   Mayor Pro Tem
   
2.11   Removal
Article 3.0   Board Procedure
   
3.1   Regular Meetings
   
3.2   Special Meetings
   
3.3   Quorum And Adjournment Of Meeting
   
3.4   Meetings Open To The Public; Executive Sessions
   
3.5   Board Acts
   
3.6   Voting, Voting Prohibited When
   
3.7   Action By Ordinance Required
   
3.8   Form Of Ordinance
   
3.9   Ordinance Adoption Procedure
   
3.10   Emergency Ordinances
   
3.11   Codification
   
3.12   Adoption Of Codes By Reference
   
3.13   Public Records
   
3.14   Publication
   
3.15   Fines And Penalties For Ordinance Violations
Article 4.0   Elections
   
4.1   Colorado Municipal Election Laws Adopted
   
4.2   Regular Elections
   
4.3   Nonpartisan Elections
   
4.4   Election Precincts
   
4.5   Recall
Article 5.0   Initiative And Referendum
   
5.1   Initiative
   
5.2   Referendum
   
5.3   Board Referendum
   
5.4   Prohibited Action By Board
Article 6.0   Legal And Judiciary
   
6.1   Town Attorney
   
6.2   Judiciary
Article 7.0   Town Administration
   
7.1   Town Manager
   
7.2   Non-Interference
   
7.3   Powers And Duties Of The Town Manager
   
7.4   Departments
Article 8.0   Budget And Finance
   
8.1   Fiscal Year
   
8.2   Budget
   
8.3   Capital Program
   
8.4   Public Hearing
   
8.5   Town Action On Budget
   
8.6   Payments And Obligations Prohibited
   
8.7   Lapse Of Appropriation
   
8.8   Deposit And Permitted Investment Of Town Funds
   
8.9   Payments
   
8.10   Independent Audit
Article 9.0   Financial Powers
   
9.1   General Statement
   
9.2   Forms Of Borrowing
   
9.3   Municipal Taxation
Article 10.0   Improvement Districts, Authorities And Assessments
   
10.1   Authorization
   
10.2   Public Hearing
   
10.3   Review Of Improvement District Proceedings
Article 11.0   Franchises And Public Utilities
   
11.1   Town Powers
   
11.2   Utility Rates And Finances
   
11.3   Grant Of Franchises
   
11.4   Term, Compensation And Restriction
   
11.5   Franchise Review
   
11.6   Assignment Of Franchise
   
11.7   Common Use Of Facilities
   
11.8   Franchise Records
   
11.9   Revocable Permits
Article 12.0   Boards And Commissions
   
12.1   Existing Boards And Commissions
   
12.2   Boards And Commissions General
Article 13.0   Property Rights, Disposition
   
13.1   Property Rights
   
13.2   Eminent Domain
   
13.3   Lease Of Property
Article 14.0   Miscellaneous Provisions
   
14.1   Interpretation
   
14.2   Reservation Of Power
   
14.3   Bequests, Gifts And Donations
   
14.4   Emergency Powers
   
14.5   Penalties For Violation Of Charter
   
14.6   Severability Of Charter Provisions
   
14.7   Charter Amendments
   
14.8   Saturdays, Sundays, And Holidays
   
14.9   Definitions
   
14.10   Limitations Of Actions
Article 15.0   Transitional Provisions
   
15.1   Status Of Transitional Provisions
   
15.2   Effective Date Of Charter
   
15.3   Prior Town Legislation
   
15.4   Present Elected Officials To Continue In Office
   
15.5   Continuation Of Appointed Officers And Employees
   
15.6   Continuation Of Present Boards And Commissions
   
15.7   Saving Clause
   
15.8   Correction Of Grammatical And Syntactical Errors
 
PREFATORY SYNOPSIS
The Town of Morrison was incorporated on January 10, 1906, as a statutory town.
Its basic structure and legal status have not changed during its first century
of existence. Physically the Town has changed somewhat, but broad and pervasive
change, resulting from growth and growth pressure in and around the historic
town, is just now beginning to be felt. The Morrison Home Rule Commission,
elected on April 4, 2000 has designed and presented a Charter which makes
minimal modification to the current structure and practice of government in the
Town, but empowers the Town to effectively function in its second century. The
Charter reserves to the residents of the Town and their elected officials the
fullest power and authority over local and Municipal matters that may be
reserved under article XX of the Colorado Constitution. The Charter and the
administrative structure provided will enable the Town to respond quickly and
effectively to the challenges the future will present:
-intensified regulation of the water and sewer utilities.
-new State or Federal mandates.
-changes in the law governing Municipal matters as a result of legislative or
citizen initiated changes.
-development and development pressure.
(9-26-2000)
The Charter authorizes but does not require the position of Town Manager. As
government becomes a more technical and complex activity skilled management
with continuity is important.
(9-26-2000; amd. 4-3-2018)
The Charter presented to the Board of Trustees retains, and in some cases
expands, the rights of the electorate to be informed about and to effect the
government of the Town through broader notice requirements for Board meetings
and proposed ordinances, a detailed budget document and open budget process
with opportunity for citizen participation and the rights of initiative,
referendum and recall. The Charter leaves unimpaired the right of a citizen to
vote upon any proposed tax increase or change, any new tax and any new debt
payable over multiple years representing a general obligation of the Town. The
Charter encourages responsible long range planning through a requirement for a
capital improvement program and regular utility rate review. The Charter
provides for an independent annual audit of the Town's financial status so that
citizens may inform themselves of the Town's financial condition.
It is the Charter Commission's belief that that level of government closest to
the people best understands their needs and is most responsive to their
requests and should therefore have the greatest authority to develop policy
affecting them. Preserving that authority is the essence of home rule and the
purpose and intent of the proposed Morrison Home Rule Charter.
(9-26-2000)
ARTICLE 1.0
GENERAL PROVISIONS
SECTION 1.1. NAME, BOUNDARIES
The Municipal corporation presently incorporated as the Town of Morrison, shall
remain and continue as a body politic and corporate under this Charter with the
same name and with the same boundaries until such boundaries are lawfully
changed.
(9-26-2000)
SECTION 1.2. PURPOSE OF CHARTER
It is the purpose of this Charter to establish a basic governmental structure
that will provide for the effective and efficient conduct of the governance of
the Town. The Charter permits and encourages full participation in the affairs
of the Town by every member of the community.
(9-26-2000)
SECTION 1.3. FORM OF GOVERNMENT
The Municipal government provided by this Charter shall be a "Board-Mayor" form
of government. Pursuant to its provisions and subject only to limitations
imposed by the State Constitution and by this Charter, all powers of the Town
shall be vested in an elective Mayor and Board of Trustees, hereafter referred
to as the "Board," which may enact local legislation, adopt budgets and
determine policies. The Board of Trustees shall appoint a Town Manager whose
duties and authority shall be as provided by ordinance. All powers of the Town
shall be exercised in the manner prescribed by this Charter or by ordinance.
This structure, and the allocation of authority and responsibility provided for
may be modified by a duly enacted ordinance approved by two- thirds (2/3) of
the elected Board which ordinance shall not be effective for fifteen (15) days
after its adoption.
(9-26-2000; amd. 4-3-2018)
SECTION 1.4. POWERS OF THE TOWN
   (a)   Morrison shall have all the power of local self-government and home
rule possible under the State Constitution. All such powers shall be exercised
in a manner consistent with the United States Constitution, the State
Constitution, and this Charter.
   (b)   Except as otherwise provided in this Charter, the Town shall also have
all powers granted to cities and towns under State statutes.
   (c)   The enumeration of specific powers in this Charter shall not be
considered as limiting or excluding any other power under Article XX of the
State Constitution or any other applicable constitutional provision.
(9-26-2000)
ARTICLE 2.0
MAYOR, BOARD OF TRUSTEES
SECTION 2.1. BOARD MEMBERSHIP
The Town shall be governed by a Board of seven (7), comprised of six (6)
Trustees and a Mayor, who shall be elected at large, unless otherwise provided
by ordinance.
(9-26-2000)
SECTION 2.2. POWERS OF THE BOARD
The Board shall be the legislative and governing body of the Town and shall
exercise all powers conferred to it by this Charter and shall adopt such
ordinances and resolutions as it shall deem proper.
(9-26-2000)
SECTION 2.3. QUALIFICATIONS
Each Board Member and the Mayor when nominated and elected shall be 21 years of
age, shall be a citizen of the United States, a registered voter of this Town
and shall have resided in the Town or any territory hereafter annexed for one
year immediately preceding such election. The Board shall be the judge of the
election and qualifications of its own members.
(9-26-2000)
SECTION 2.4. TERMS OF OFFICE
Terms of office of members of the Board shall be four years and shall be
overlapping.
(9-26-2000)
SECTION 2.5. COMPENSATION
The members of the Board shall be entitled to receive such compensation as may
be prescribed by ordinance, provided, however, that the compensation of any
member during such member's term of office shall not be increased or decreased.
(9-26-2000)
SECTION 2.6. STANDARDS OF CONDUCT
   (a)   Conflicts of Interest
      (1)   A "conflict of interest," for purposes of this Article, means any
pecuniary, property or commercial benefit of any person covered by this
Article, or of any parent, spouse, sibling, or child of such person. However, a
"conflict of interest" does not include any matter involving the common public
interest, or any matter in which a similar benefit is conferred or is available
to all persons or property similarly situated.
      (2)   No person subject to the requirements of this Article shall fail to
comply with the applicable disclosure and non-action requirements of this
Section.
   (b)   Disclosure And Non-Action - Matters Involving Conflict Of Interest
      (1)   If the Mayor or a Trustee has a conflict of interest with regard to
any matter before the Board, he or she shall follow the disclosure and other
requirements of this section. The Board shall be the final arbiter of conflicts
of interest of its members.
      (2)   At or before the time the matter is heard, the member shall
disclose the interest to the Board. The member shall not vote on or otherwise
take any formal action concerning the matter, shall not participate in any
executive session concerning the matter, and shall refrain from attempting to
influence any other member in voting on the matter other than as a citizen in
an open meeting on the record.
   (c)   Other Provisions Concerning Conflicts of Interest
      (1)   Neither the Mayor or any Trustee shall use for personal or private
gain, or for any other personal or private purpose, any information which is
not available to the public and which is obtained by reason of the person's
position with the Town, or disclose any such information except as required by
law.
      (2)   The provisions of this article shall be in addition to any
applicable conflict of interest provisions of the State Statutes that are at
least as restrictive as this article, and shall supersede any such conflict of
interest provisions of the State Statutes that are less restrictive than this
Article.
(9-26-2000)
SECTION 2.7. VACANCIES
The Board of Trustees has the power, by appointment, to fill all vacancies on
the Board, including Mayor, or any other office, and the person so appointed
shall hold office until the next regular election and until a successor is
elected and takes the oath of office. The Board may also order a special
election to fill the vacancy until a successor has been elected following the
next regular election. A special election may not be ordered to fill a vacancy
if the vacancy occurs 120 days or less before a regular election.
(9-26-2000; amd. 4-3-2018; amd. 11-5-2024)
SECTION 2.8. OATH OF OFFICE
Before entering upon the duties of office, every Trustee, the Mayor and other
Town officers as defined by ordinance shall take, subscribe before and file
with the Town Clerk an oath or affirmation supporting the Constitution of the
United States, the Constitution of the State of Colorado, this Charter and the
ordinances of the Town and affirming they will faithfully perform the duties of
the office.
(9-26-2000)
SECTION 2.9. MAYOR
   (a)   The Mayor shall be elected for a term of four years. (9-26-2000)
   (b)   The Mayor shall preside at meetings of the Board and shall exercise
such powers and perform such other duties as shall be conferred on the office
by this Charter, the ordinances of the Town or by the Board. The Mayor shall
have all the powers, rights, privileges and obligations of a Board member
including the right to vote on all matters. The Mayor shall be recognized as
head of the Town government for all ceremonial and legal purposes and shall
execute all legal instruments requiring official signatures. The Mayor shall be
responsible for the efficient administration of the affairs of the Town as
required by this Charter and the policies and directives of the Board, subject
to modification of this responsibility and authority in the event of
appointment of a Town Manager and upon definition of his/her authority and
responsibility by ordinance.
(9-26-2000; amd. 4-3-2018)
SECTION 2.10. MAYOR PRO TEM
The Mayor Pro Tem shall be elected from the Board membership by a majority vote
of the entire Board. This election shall take place at the organizational
meeting following each general Municipal election.
The Mayor Pro Tem shall serve until the next organizational meeting unless
sooner removed by a majority vote of the entire Board. In the absence or
disability of the Mayor, the Mayor Pro Tem shall perform all duties and have
all powers of the Mayor. If a vacancy occurs in the Office of Mayor Pro Tem,
the Board shall elect a successor.
(9-26-2000)
SECTION 2.11. REMOVAL
The Board of Trustees shall have the power to remove its members from office,
including the Mayor, for cause upon written notice and opportunity for a
hearing. Removal from office shall require at least five votes for removal.
Without limiting other cause, three (3) consecutive unexcused absences shall be
grounds for removal.
(9-26-2000)
ARTICLE 3.0
BOARD PROCEDURE
SECTION 3.1. REGULAR MEETINGS
The Board shall meet regularly at least twice each month on a day and hour to
be fixed by resolution. The agenda of each regular meeting shall be posted in
one (1) place accessible to the public within the Town and on the Town's
website at least seventy-two (72) hours in advance of such meetings. The Board
shall determine the rules and procedures governing meetings. The first regular
meeting following each general Municipal election shall be the organizational
meeting of the Board.
(9-26-2000; amd. 4-3-2018)
SECTION 3.2. SPECIAL MEETINGS
Special meetings shall be called by the Town Clerk upon the request of the
Mayor, of any two members of the Board, or the Town Manager, on at least forty-
eight (48) hours written notice personally delivered to, or delivered to the
residence of, each member of the Board and posted in one (1) place accessible
to the public within the Town and on the Town's website. A special meeting,
however, may be held on shorter notice, but only after a reasonable attempt to
provide actual notice to each Board member, if a quorum of the Board approves.
No business shall be transacted at any special meeting of the Board unless it
has been stated in the posted notice of such meeting.
(8-2-2016; amd. 4-3-2018)
SECTION 3.3. QUORUM AND ADJOURNMENT OF MEETING
A majority of the members of the Board in office at the time shall be a quorum
for the transaction of business at all Board meetings but in the absence of a
quorum a lesser number may adjourn any meeting to a later time or date. In the
absence of all members, the Town Clerk may adjourn any meeting for not longer
than two (2) weeks.
(9-26-2000)
SECTION 3.4. MEETINGS OPEN TO THE PUBLIC; EXECUTIVE SESSIONS
1.   All regular and special meetings of the Board, except executive sessions
as defined below, shall be open to the public and citizens shall have a
reasonable opportunity to be heard under such rules and regulations as the
Board may prescribe.
2.   Any meeting of the Board of Trustees may be recessed by a two-thirds vote
of those present in order to hold an executive session, which shall be closed
to the public, for any of the following purposes:
   (a)   To consider documents or testimony given in confidence;
   (b)   To determine a position relative to issues subject to negotiation, to
receive reports on the progress and status of negotiations, to develop
strategy, and to instruct negotiators;
   (c)   To consider the purchase, sale or lease of property by the Town;
   (d)   For matters of attorney-client privilege;
   (e)   For matters required by Federal or State law to be confidential;
   (f)   For matters critical to the personal safety of members of the Board
and for matters involving the protection and security of Town property.
   (g)   For classified or confidential police matters, subject to criteria the
Board may establish by ordinance.
   (h)   To consider personnel matters.
   (i)   To consider additional matters which are permitted to be the subject
of an executive session, including, without limitation, what may be permitted
under the Open Meetings Law, as the same may be amended from time to time, or
under court decisions.
   (j)   To discuss evidence submitted in a quasi judicial proceeding.
3.   No board, commission or committee of the Town shall hold an executive
session, except in accordance with subsection 2 above.
4.   No final policy, final decision, resolution, rule, ordinance or
regulation, and no action approving a contract or calling for the payment of
money shall be adopted in an executive session.
(9-26-2000)
SECTION 3.5. BOARD ACTS
The Board shall act only by ordinance, resolution or motion. All legislative
enactments shall be in the form of ordinances and all other actions, subject to
the provisions of section 3.7 shall be in the form of resolutions or motions. A
true copy of every resolution and ordinance adopted shall be numbered and
recorded in the official records of the Town.
(9-26-2000)
SECTION 3.6. VOTING, VOTING PROHIBITED WHEN
   (a)   Each member's vote on an ordinance or resolution shall be recorded in
the minutes.
   (b)   Except where a greater number is required in this Charter, the final
adoption of any ordinance, resolution or motion, shall require the affirmative
vote of a majority of the members present. Passage of an ordinance shall
require four (4) affirmative votes.
   (c)   No member of the Board shall vote on any matter concerning the
member's own conduct.
   (d)   No member of the Board shall vote on any matter in which the member
has a conflict of interest, as defined in section 2.6.
   (e)   Except as provided in subsections (c) and (d) of this section, each
member of the Board who is present shall vote on each matter. Any refusal to
vote, except when an abstention is required by subsections (c) or (d) of this
section, shall be recorded as an affirmative vote.
(9-26-2000)
SECTION 3.7. ACTION BY ORDINANCE REQUIRED
In addition to such acts of the Board as are required by the Colorado
Constitution or this Charter to be by ordinance, every act of the Board
authorizing the borrowing of money, imposing a new tax or increasing a tax
rate, or establishing a regulation for the violation of which a fine,
imprisonment, or forfeiture may be imposed, shall be by ordinance.
(9-26-2000)
SECTION 3.8. FORM OF ORDINANCE
   (a)   Every ordinance shall be introduced in printed form. The enacting
clause of all ordinances shall be: BE IT ORDAINED BY THE BOARD OF TRUSTEES OF
THE TOWN OF MORRISON, COLORADO:
(9-26-2000)
   (b)   Except as otherwise provided in this Charter, all ordinances shall
take effect fifteen (15) days after publication following final adoption.
Unless otherwise specifically provided in the ordinance, every ordinance shall
be deemed to contain a severability clause whether stated therein or not.
(9-26-2000; amd. 4-3-2018)
SECTION 3.9. ORDINANCE ADOPTION PROCEDURE
   (a)   The following procedure shall be followed in adopting any ordinance
except an emergency ordinance:
      (1)   The ordinance shall be introduced by motion at a regular or special
meeting of the Board of Trustees.
(9-26-2000)
      (2)   Before being introduced, an ordinance, except an emergency
ordinance, shall have been posted in full in one (1) place accessible to the
public in the Town of Morrison, and posted in full on the Town website, at
least 72 hours before its introduction, not counting an intervening Saturday or
Sunday. Additionally, copies of the ordinance shall be available to the public
at the meeting at which it is introduced.
(8-2-2016)
      (3)   The ordinance shall be read by title.
      (4)   After the reading, and any discussion, the Board shall vote to
amend, and adopt as amended, adopt, or reject the ordinance, or take such other
action as it deems appropriate.
      (5)   If the ordinance is adopted it shall be published as provided in
section 3.14.
      (6)   Prior to taking final action on the ordinance, the Board of
Trustees may permit public comment on the ordinance.
      (7)   The ordinance shall be signed by the Mayor and attested by the Town
Clerk, and affidavits of publication shall be retained with the ordinance in
the Town's records.
(9-26-2000)
      (8)   An ordinance, except an emergency ordinance, shall be effective
fifteen (15) days after adoption and publication in accordance with section
3.14 below.
(9-26-2000; amd. 4-3-2018)
      (9)   The above procedures for notice before introduction and public
comment may be modified by the Board of Trustees to meet requirements of the
Town or applicable State Statute for notice and public hearing in specific
matters.
(9-26-2000)
SECTION 3.10. EMERGENCY ORDINANCES
   (a)   An emergency ordinance shall require the affirmative vote of three-
fourths (3/4) of those present, but in no case less than five (5) affirmative
votes. The facts showing the emergency shall be specifically stated in the
ordinance. The Board of Trustees' determination of an emergency shall be
conclusive.
   (b)   An emergency ordinance may be introduced and finally adopted at any
regular or special meeting and shall not require posting prior to introduction
and adoption. An emergency ordinance shall take effect upon final adoption or
on such later date as specified in the ordinance. Following final adoption, an
emergency ordinance shall be published in full as set forth in Section 3.14
below.
(9-26-2000)
SECTION 3.11. CODIFICATION
The Board of Trustees shall cause ordinances of a general and permanent nature
to be codified. The codification, or any revisions to the code, may be adopted
by reference as provided in Section 3.12.
(9-26-2000)
SECTION 3.12. ADOPTION OF CODES BY REFERENCE
The Board of Trustees may adopt, by ordinance, any code by reference. The
procedure for adoption of a code by reference shall be as provided in the
Colorado statutes applicable to the adoption of codes by reference, or such
other procedure as the Board of Trustees may provide by ordinance. Every
ordinance adopting a code by reference shall contain a notice that copies of
the Code are available at the office of the Town Clerk. Any penalty clause in
such a code may be adopted only if set forth in full in the adopting ordinance.
(9-26-2000)
SECTION 3.13. PUBLIC RECORDS
All public records of the Town shall be open for inspection by any person in
accordance with applicable Colorado law concerning public records.
(9-26-2000)
SECTION 3.14. PUBLICATION
Wherever publication is required by this Charter, it shall mean posting in one
(1) place within the Town accessible to the public, and contemporaneous posting
on the Town's website. Locations for posting shall be designated in January of
each year by the Board of Trustees. The Board of Trustees may direct
publication in a newspaper of general circulation within the Town by title
only, title and summary, title and penalty provisions, or in full, at its
discretion. Any publication less than in full shall advise where complete
copies of the document can be obtained.
(Ord. 435, 8-2-2016)
SECTION 3.15. FINES AND PENALTIES FOR ORDINANCE VIOLATIONS
Penalties for the violation of Town ordinances shall be established by
ordinance. No fine or sentence for such a violation shall exceed the maximum
established by the state statute for municipal ordinance violations.
(9-26-2000)
ARTICLE 4.0
ELECTIONS
SECTION 4.1. COLORADO MUNICIPAL ELECTION LAWS ADOPTED
Town elections shall be governed by the Colorado Municipal Election Code and
the Fair Campaign Practices Act as they now exist or are hereafter amended or
modified except as otherwise provided by this Charter or by ordinance hereafter
enacted.
(9-26-2000)
SECTION 4.2. REGULAR ELECTIONS
Regular municipal elections shall be held on the first Tuesday in April of even
numbered years. Any special municipal election may be called by resolution or
ordinance at least thirty (30) days in advance of such election. The resolution
or ordinance calling a special municipal election shall set forth the purpose
of such election. Polling places for all municipal elections shall be open from
7:00 a.m. to 7:00 p.m. on election day.
(9-26-2000)
SECTION 4.3. NONPARTISAN ELECTIONS
No candidate for any municipal office shall have a party affiliation listed on
the ballot.
(9-26-2000)
SECTION 4.4. ELECTION PRECINCTS
The Town shall constitute one voting precinct, provided that the Board may by
ordinance, for the convenience of the registered electors, establish or abolish
multiple precincts thirty (30) days or more prior to any election. The Board
shall determine the maximum number of registered electors for each precinct and
each precinct shall be as substantially equal in the number of registered
electors as practicable.
(9-26-2000)
SECTION 4.5. RECALL
   (a)   Any person holding elective office may be recalled at any time after
six months in office, pursuant to the procedures set forth in this Charter and
in those state statutes, as from time to time amended, which do not conflict
with this Charter, or with ordinances adopted by the Town pursuant to this
Charter, and which establish procedures for the recall of municipal elective
officers.
   (b)   A recall petition shall be signed by registered electors of the Town
equal in number to at least twenty-five percent of the entire vote cast at the
last preceding regular election for the office to which the person sought to be
recalled was elected, or in the case of a member of the Board of Trustees,
twenty-five percent of the vote for all candidates for Trustee divided by the
number of Trustees elected at the last regular election.
   (c)   No signature on a recall petition shall be valid if signed on a date
more than thirty days prior to the date the signed petition is filed with the
Clerk.
   (d)   No separate recall election shall be held if a regular election is
scheduled within ninety days after submission of the recall petition. The
recall election shall be held at the same time as a regular election scheduled
within ninety-days of submission of the recall petition. If the term of the
official against whom recall is sought expires at the regularly scheduled
election within 90 days, no recall election will be held.
   (e)   After one recall petition and election, no further petition shall be
filed against the same person during the term for which such person was elected
or appointed, unless the signers number at least fifty percent of the votes
cast at the last preceding election for all candidates for the office held by
such person, the number to be determined in the manner described in this
section.
   (f)   Except as to requirements contained in this Charter and in the state
statutes, as from time to time amended, applicable to the recall of municipal
elective officers not inconsistent with this Charter or ordinances adopted
pursuant to this Charter, the form, content, approval and other petition
requirements in the municipal initiative statutes, as from time to time
amended, shall apply as nearly as practicable to recall petitions.
(9-26-2000)
ARTICLE 5.0
INITIATIVE AND REFERENDUM
SECTION 5.1. INITIATIVE
   (a)   The registered electors of the Town may initiate a proposed ordinance,
pursuant to the initiative power reserved by Article V, Section 1(9) of the
State Constitution, as to any legislative matter which is subject to said
initiative power. Any initiated measure shall be in the form of an ordinance of
the Town. The ordinance shall be initiated pursuant to the State statutes which
establish procedures for a municipal initiative, except as otherwise provided
in this Charter or in ordinances not inconsistent with this Charter.
   (b)   An initiative petition shall be signed by registered electors of the
Town equal in number to at least ten (10) percent of the total number of
electors of the Town registered to vote in a Town election as of the date of
the last regular election.
   (c)   The Town Clerk shall not count as valid any signature on an initiative
petition if the date of the signature is prior to the date the form of the
petition was approved by the Town Clerk.
   (d)   The Town Clerk shall not count as valid any signature on an initiative
petition if more than ninety (90) days have elapsed between the date the form
of the petition was approved by the Town Clerk and the date of the signature.
(9-26-2000)
SECTION 5.2. REFERENDUM
   (a)   The registered electors may require an adopted ordinance to be
referred to them at an election, pursuant to the referendum power reserved by
Article V, Section 1(9) of the State Constitution, to the extent the ordinance
constitutes a legislative matter which is subject to said referendum power.
Such an ordinance shall be referred pursuant to the State statutes which
establish procedures for a municipal referendum, except as otherwise provided
in this Charter or ordinances not inconsistent with this Charter. The
referendum power shall not apply to an emergency ordinance or to an Ordinance
calling a special election.
   (b)   A referendum petition shall be signed by registered electors of the
Town equal in number to at least ten (10) percent of the total number of
electors of the Town registered to vote as of the date of the last regular
election except as to referendum petitions pertaining to the award of a
franchise, which shall be signed by five (5) percent of the registered electors
of the Town as of the date of the last regular election.
   (c)   The Town Clerk shall not count as valid any signature on a referendum
petition if the date of the signature is prior to the date the form of the
petition was approved by the Town Clerk.
(9-26-2000)
SECTION 5.3. BOARD REFERENDUM
The Board of Trustees shall have the power to submit to a vote of the
registered electors of the Town, without receipt of any petition, any proposed
or adopted ordinance or any question.
(9-26-2000)
SECTION 5.4. PROHIBITED ACTION BY BOARD
   (a)   No initiated ordinance adopted by the registered electors of the Town
may be substantively amended or repealed by the Board during a period of one
(1) year after the date of the election on the initiated ordinance.
   (b)   No referred ordinance repealed by the registered electors of the Town
may be readopted by the Board during a period of one (1) year after the date of
the election on the referred ordinance.
(9-26-2000)
ARTICLE 6.0
LEGAL AND JUDICIARY
SECTION 6.1. TOWN ATTORNEY
The Board shall appoint a Town Attorney to serve at the pleasure of the Board.
The Town Attorney shall be an attorney at law admitted to practice in Colorado.
The Town Attorney shall be the legal representative of the Town and shall
advise the Board and Town officials in matters relating to their official
powers and duties and perform such other duties as the Board may prescribe. The
Board shall establish the compensation for the Town Attorney and any assistants
or special counsel.
(9-26-2000)
SECTION 6.2. JUDICIARY
   (a)   Municipal Court. There shall be a Municipal Court vested with
jurisdiction of all cases arising under the ordinances of the Town and as may
be otherwise conferred by statute or ordinance.
(9-26-2000)
   (b)   Municipal Judges. The Municipal Court shall be presided over and its
functions exercised by a Judge or Judges appointed by the Board for a specified
term of not less than one year. The Board may reappoint the Municipal Judges
for a subsequent term or terms, except that the initial appointment may be for
a term of office which expires on the date of the organizational meeting of the
Board after the next general election. Any vacancy in the Office of a Municipal
Judge shall be filled by appointment by the Board for the remainder of the
unexpired term. The Board shall designate a presiding Municipal Judge who shall
serve in such capacity during the term for which appointed.
(9-26-2000; amd. 4-3-2018)
   (c)   Qualifications. All Municipal Judges shall be attorneys admitted to
practice in Colorado.
   (d)   Compensation. All Municipal Judges shall receive a salary or
compensation set by the Board.
(9-26-2000)
   (e)   Removal. During their term the Municipal Judge may be removed from
office only for cause. The following, without limitation, shall constitute
cause for removal:
(9-26-2000; amd. 4-3-2018)
      (1)   Conviction of a felony or any other crime involving moral
turpitude;
(9-26-2000)
      (2)   A disability which interferes with the performance of their duties
and which is, or is likely to become, of a permanent character;
(9-26-2000; amd. 4-3-2018)
      (3)   Willful or persistent failure to perform the duties of the office.
   (f)   Staff. The Board shall determine by ordinance the organization and
staffing of the Municipal Court.
(9-26-2000)
ARTICLE 7.0
TOWN ADMINISTRATION
SECTION 7.1. TOWN MANAGER
The Board of Trustees may appoint a Town Manager to serve at the pleasure of
the Board. The Board shall by ordinance establish the Town Manager duties,
responsibilities, and authority.
(9-26-2000; amd. 4-3-2018)
SECTION 7.2. NON-INTERFERENCE
   (a)   No member of the Board shall dictate the appointment of any person to
Town employment, nor the removal of any person from Town employment, except as
may be provided by this Charter, nor in any other way interfere with such
employment. (9-26-2000)
   (b)   Except for purposes of inquiry, each elected official shall deal with
Town employees solely through the Town Manager and no member of the Board shall
give orders to any Town employee. The Board of Trustees may modify this
principle by formally adopted motion, resolution or ordinance.
   (c)   No individual Board member shall issue a directive or order to the
Town Manager. Such directives or orders shall be given as a whole by the Board.
(9-26-2000; amd. 4-3-2018)
SECTION 7.3. POWERS AND DUTIES OF THE TOWN MANAGER
Unless modified by ordinance, the Town Manager shall, under the general
supervision of the Mayor and the Board, be responsible for the proper
administration of all affairs of the Town placed in the Manager's charge, and
to that end shall have the following powers, duties and responsibilities:
   (a)   The Town Manager shall be responsible for the enforcement of the laws,
contracts and ordinances of the Town and the implementation of official
policies and directives of the Board.
   (b)   The Town Manager shall exercise supervision and control over all Town
departments.
   (c)   The Town Manager shall perform such other duties as may be prescribed
by this Charter, by ordinance, by other applicable laws, or as may be required
by the Board which are not inconsistent with this Charter.
(9-26-2000; amd. 4-3-2018)
SECTION 7.4. DEPARTMENTS
The Board of Trustees may by ordinance establish and eliminate Town departments
and establish and define the authority and responsibility of each department
head.
(9-26-2000)
ARTICLE 8.0
BUDGET AND FINANCE
SECTION 8.1. FISCAL YEAR
Unless otherwise provided by ordinance, the fiscal year of the Town shall begin
on the first day of January and end on the last day of December of each year.
(9-26-2000)
SECTION 8.2. BUDGET
   (a)   The Board of Trustees shall adopt an annual budget. Such budget shall
present a complete financial plan by fund and by spending agency within each
fund for the fiscal year and shall set forth the following:
      (1)   All proposed expenditures for administration, operations,
maintenance, debt service, and capital projects to be undertaken or executed by
any spending agency during the fiscal year;
      (2)   Anticipated revenues for the fiscal year;
      (3)   Estimated beginning and ending fund balances;
      (4)   The corresponding actual figures for the prior fiscal year and
estimated figures projected through the end of the current fiscal year,
including disclosures of all beginning and ending fund balances, consistent
with the basis of accounting used to prepare the budget;
      (5)   A written budget message describing the important features of the
proposed budget, including a statement of the budgetary basis of accounting
used and a description of the services to be delivered during the fiscal year;
and
      (6)   Explanatory schedules or statements classifying the expenditures by
object and the revenues by source.
   (b)   The budget shall not provide for expenditures in excess of available
or projected revenues and beginning fund balances.
   (c)   The Board of Trustees may modify the content of the budget and
procedure for its adoption by ordinance.
   (d)   So long as required by §29-1-103 C.R.S., or other applicable law, the
budget shall set forth, in a supplemental schedule, each of the following:
      (1)   The total amount to be expended during the ensuing fiscal year for
payment obligations under all lease-purchase agreements involving real
property;
      (2)   The total maximum payment liability of the Town under all lease-
purchase agreements involving real property over the entire terms of such
agreements, including all optional renewal terms;
      (3)   The total amount to be expended during the ensuing fiscal year for
payment obligations under all lease-purchase agreements other than those
involving real property; and
      (4)   The total maximum payment liability of the Town under all lease-
purchase agreements other than those involving real property over the entire
terms of such agreements, including all optional renewal terms.
(9-26-2000)
SECTION 8.3. CAPITAL PROGRAM
   (a)   At the same time as the time of adoption of the budget by the Board,
the Board shall adopt a five (5) year capital program which shall serve as a
guide for the planning of capital improvements.
   (b)   The capital program shall include at least the following information:
      (1)   A general summary of its contents;
      (2)   A list of all capital improvements which are recommended to be
undertaken, continued, or completed during the next five (5) fiscal years;
      (3)   Cost estimates and methods and timing of financing the
improvements; and
      (4)   The estimated annual cost of operating and maintaining the
improvements.
   (c)   The Board of Trustees may modify the requirements of a capital
improvement program by ordinance.
(9-26-2000)
SECTION 8.4. PUBLIC HEARING
At such time and place as the Board of Trustees may direct, at least one (1)
public hearing shall be held on the proposed budget and the recommended capital
program before adoption. Notice of each public hearing and notice that the
proposed budget is available for public inspection, shall be posted on the
Town's website, and shall be posted in one (1) place accessible to the public
within the Town, at least seventy-two (72) hours before each hearing.
(8-2-2016; amd. 4-3-2018)
SECTION 8.5. TOWN ACTION ON BUDGET
   (a)   Unless another date is provided by ordinance, the Town shall adopt the
budget, by resolution, on or before the date provided by law for certification
of the ad valorem Property Tax levy. If the Town fails to adopt the budget by
the required date, the amounts appropriated for the current fiscal year,
together with any additional amounts necessary for payments of principal and
interest on securities and other payment obligations, shall be deemed
appropriated for the next fiscal year on a month-to-month basis, with all items
in it prorated accordingly, until such time as the Town adopts the budget for
the next fiscal year.
   (b)   Adoption of the budget shall constitute appropriation of the amounts
specified therein as expenditures from the funds indicated, and shall
constitute a levy of the ad valorem Property Tax therein provided. The Town
shall cause the ad valorem Property Tax levy to be certified as provided by
law.
   (c)   Unless as otherwise provided in this Charter or in ordinances not
inconsistent with this Charter, procedures concerning supplemental
appropriations, transfers, contingencies, and other matters pertaining to the
budget, shall be as set forth in the State statutes concerning the budgets of
local governments.
(9-26-2000)
SECTION 8.6. PAYMENTS AND OBLIGATIONS PROHIBITED
During the fiscal year, no Town official, employee, or spending agency shall
expend or contract to expend any money, or incur any liability, or enter into
any contract which by its terms, involves the expenditures of money in excess
of the amounts appropriated. Any contract, verbal or written, made in violation
of this section shall be void, and no monies belonging to the Town shall be
paid on such contract.
(9-26-2000)
SECTION 8.7. LAPSE OF APPROPRIATION
Every appropriation shall lapse at the close of the fiscal year to the extent
that it has not been expended or encumbered.
(9-26-2000)
SECTION 8.8. DEPOSIT AND PERMITTED INVESTMENT OF TOWN FUNDS
The revenues of the Town shall be deposited and invested in accordance with the
provisions of applicable State statutes or as otherwise provided by ordinance.
(9-26-2000)
SECTION 8.9. PAYMENTS
No demand for money against the Town shall be approved or paid unless it is in
writing, dated, and sufficiently itemized to identify the expenditure to the
Board for payment.
(9-26-2000)
SECTION 8.10. INDEPENDENT AUDIT
The Board of Trustees shall provide for an independent annual audit of all Town
accounts by a certified public accountant selected by the Board, and may
provide for more frequent audits as it deems necessary. The accountant selected
shall have no direct personal interest in the fiscal affairs of the Town, of
any elected official, or of any employee of the Town. Unless another date is
provided by ordinance, the audit shall be completed within four (4) months
after the close of the fiscal year. Copies of the audit shall be made available
for public inspection.
(9-26-2000)
ARTICLE 9.0
FINANCIAL POWERS
SECTION 9.1. GENERAL STATEMENT
The Town shall have all financial powers, including but not limited to power to
levy and collect fees, assessments and taxes of any kind, and the power to
borrow money, issue securities or otherwise incur financial obligations, now or
hereafter permitted under Article XX, Section 6 of the State Constitution,
except as specifically limited herein. Without limiting the generality of the
foregoing, the Town shall also have the authority, at its option, to exercise
any financial or borrowing powers now or hereafter granted to home rule or
statutory municipalities, all subject to applicable requirements for voter
approval.
(9-26-2000)
SECTION 9.2. FORMS OF BORROWING
Subject to any applicable limitations in the State Constitution, the Town may
borrow money and issue securities or enter into other obligations to evidence
such borrowing in any form and in any manner determined by the Board to be
advantageous to the Town.
(9-26-2000)
SECTION 9.3. MUNICIPAL TAXATION
The Board of Trustees may adopt, by ordinance, such taxes as are not prohibited
for home rule municipalities by the State Constitution, subject to any
applicable limitations in said Constitution, including any applicable voter
approval requirements.
(9-26-2000)
ARTICLE 10.0
IMPROVEMENT DISTRICTS, AUTHORITIES AND ASSESSMENTS
SECTION 10.1. AUTHORIZATION
   (a)   The Town shall have the power to create local improvement districts,
general improvement districts, special taxing districts, urban renewal
authorities, housing authorities and other special districts and authorities,
as authorized by Colorado statutes for municipalities, or as may be authorized
by ordinance of the Town.
   (b)   The Town shall also have the power to create districts and authorities
similar to those referred to in paragraph (a) above pursuant to provisions
prescribed by the State Constitution or by ordinance, subject to the provisions
of this Charter.
   (c)   Without limiting alternative methods of financing, the costs of
designing, constructing, installing or acquiring public, local or municipal
improvements of every kind and character may be assessed in whole or in part
upon the property benefited by such improvements.
   (d)   Money may be borrowed to finance the design, construction,
installation or acquisition of such improvements as provided for in Article 9.0
of this Charter, including issuing securities secured by a pledge of
assessments against the benefited property in the District. Such obligations
shall not require a vote of the electorate unless they create a general
obligation debt.
   (e)   The Town may also pay for such improvements out of monies available
therefore from any appropriate fund or source and, at its option, provide for
repayment to the appropriate fund from collection of the assessments.
   (f)   The Town may also redeem or prepay improvement district securities at
any time funds are available to do so and assign the assessments as collected
to an appropriate fund of the Town.
(9-26-2000)
SECTION 10.2. PUBLIC HEARING
Prior to the creation of any district with separate taxing powers or which is
intended to assess the costs of improvements against the property within the
district, a hearing shall be held with reasonable notice to the owners of
record subject to the proposed assessments or within the district.
(9-26-2000)
SECTION 10.3. REVIEW OF IMPROVEMENT DISTRICT PROCEEDINGS
No action or proceeding at law or in equity to review or question the validity
of any acts or proceedings, to enjoin the issuance or payment of any securities
or levy or collection of assessments authorized by this Article or for any
relief against any acts or proceedings of the Town done under this Article
shall be maintained against the Town unless commenced within 30 days after
performance of such act or the effective date of the ordinance or resolution
complained of, or else be thereafter forever barred.
(9-26-2000)
ARTICLE 11.0
FRANCHISES AND PUBLIC UTILITIES
SECTION 11.1. TOWN POWERS
   (a)   The Town shall have and exercise with regard to all utilities and
franchises all municipal powers, functions, and authority now existing and
which may be hereafter provided by the State Constitution and State Statutes.
   (b)   The Town shall have the power and authority within or without the
territorial limits of the Town to construct, condemn, purchase, acquire and
lease public utilities and assets, equipment and everything in relation to or
in connection therewith, including, without limitation, real estate or
interests therein and water and water rights and interests therein, in whole or
in part, for the use of the Town and its inhabitants.
   (c)   Except as otherwise provided by the State Constitution or this
Charter, all powers concerning the granting, amending, revoking, terminating or
otherwise acting in relation to franchises shall be exercised by the Board.
(9-26-2000)
SECTION 11.2. UTILITY RATES AND FINANCES
   (a)   The Board shall from time to time fix, establish, maintain and provide
for the collection of rates, fees, and charges for water, sewer, and any other
utility services furnished by the Town.
   (b)   In fixing or modifying rates, fees or charges, the Board may consider
the sufficiency of rates, fees and charges, in the Board's judgment, to provide
good service to the customers, pay all bonded indebtedness, pay legally
required refunds, cover the cost of operation, maintenance, additions,
extensions, betterments, and improvements, provide a reasonable return on the
Town's investment in utility properties and capital investments, and reimburse
the general fund for administrative services and overhead provided and incurred
by the Town on behalf of each utility, together with a sum which, in the
Board's judgment, is equivalent to that which would have been obtained from a
franchise fee or utility occupation tax on the utility.
   (c)   The Board shall review the adequacy of utility rates, fees and charges
at least every five years.
   (d)   The provisions of this section shall be subject at all times to the
performance by the Town of all covenants and agreements made by it in
connection with the issuance, sale or delivery of any bonds of the Town,
payable out of the revenues derived from the operation of its water, sewer or
other utilities, whether such revenue bonds be heretofore or hereafter issued.
(9-26-2000)
SECTION 11.3. GRANT OF FRANCHISES
   (a)   Grants of franchises and all extensions and amendments shall be
granted only by ordinance. The granting of franchises by the Town shall be
limited only by the provisions of the State Constitution and statutes which may
be applicable to home rule cities as now in effect or as hereafter amended.
   (b)   No irrevocable franchises shall be granted.
(9-26-2000)
SECTION 11.4. TERM, COMPENSATION AND RESTRICTION
No franchise, lease or right to use the streets, or the public places or
property of the Town shall be granted for a term which exceeds twenty years.
Every grant of a franchise shall fix the amount and manner of payment of
compensation to be paid by the grantee for the use of the same.
(9-26-2000)
SECTION 11.5. FRANCHISE REVIEW
Each franchise granted under the provisions of this Charter shall include a
section specifying a review of said franchise at intervals not greater than
every five (5) years.
(9-26-2000)
SECTION 11.6. ASSIGNMENT OF FRANCHISE
Any assignment or leasing of a franchise shall be considered a forfeiture
unless consent is given by the Board pursuant to the terms of the franchise
agreement or by separate ordinance.
(9-26-2000)
SECTION 11.7. COMMON USE OF FACILITIES
The Board shall have the power to require any holder of a franchise from the
Town for any public utility to allow the use of its poles, tracks, wire,
conduits and other related facilities by any other holder of a franchise
granted by the Town or the Town itself, upon the payment of a reasonable rental
to the owner thereof. If the franchise holder desiring to use the same cannot
agree with the owner regarding said rental and the terms and conditions for
such use then the Board, in its discretion, may require payment of a reasonable
rental for the use of any rights-of-way, poles, wires, and trenches of any
franchise holder and by any franchise holder. The Town may, under the terms
prescribed by the Town, allow any franchise holder to use rights-of-way, poles,
wires, and trenches of Town-owned utilities.
(9-26-2000)
SECTION 11.8. FRANCHISE RECORDS
The Board shall cause to be kept in the office of the Town Clerk and open to
the public for view, a franchise record in which shall be maintained copies of
all franchises granted by the Town.
(9-26-2000)
SECTION 11.9. REVOCABLE PERMITS
The Board may grant a permit at any time for the temporary use or operation of
any street, alley or Town owned place, provided such permits shall be revocable
by the Board at its pleasure, regardless of whether or not such right to revoke
is expressly reserved in such permit.
(9-26-2000)
ARTICLE 12.0
BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS
SECTION 12.1. EXISTING BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS
Each board and commission existing at the time this Charter is adopted shall
continue, except as otherwise provided by ordinance. The Board of Trustees may,
by ordinance, establish, consolidate or abolish any board or commission.
(9-26-2000)
SECTION 12.2. BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS GENERAL
   (a)   Except as otherwise provided by this Charter or by ordinance, each
board and commission shall be advisory in character. The selection of board or
commission members, their terms, responsibilities, authority, policies, removal
and other matters concerning each board and commission shall be as established
by ordinance.
   (b)   The appointment of any board or commission member who is required by
ordinance to be appointed by the Board of Trustees shall require the
affirmative vote of a majority of the entire Board.
   (c)   Unless otherwise provided by ordinance, the members of each board and
commission shall serve without compensation, but may be paid authorized
expenses actually incurred in the performance of the duties of office.
   (d)   No board or commission shall hold any executive session except in
accordance with procedures which shall be consistent with those established in
Section 3.4 and only for the purposes specified in Section 3.4 of this Charter.
(9-26-2000)
ARTICLE 13.0
PROPERTY RIGHTS, DISPOSITION
SECTION 13.1. PROPERTY RIGHTS
The Town shall have the power to buy, exchange, lease, sell, own, control,
encumber, hypothecate and dispose of real property and water rights in any
reasonable manner directed by the Board of Trustees.
(9-26-2000)
SECTION 13.2. EMINENT DOMAIN
In carrying out the powers and duties conferred or imposed upon it by the State
Constitution, this Charter or by State statutes, the Town shall have power to
acquire, within or without its corporate limits, interests in real property,
buildings and other property, including but not limited to any interest in land
and air rights over land, water rights, or mineral rights and may take the same
upon paying just compensation to the owner as provided by law.
(9-26-2000)
SECTION 13.3. LEASE OF PROPERTY
The Board may lease for such time as the Board shall determine, any real or
personal property to or from any person, firm, association or corporation,
public and private, governmental or otherwise. Any lease of, or by, the Town of
property for a period of more than one (1) year shall be by ordinance. Any
lease of, or by, the Town of property for one (1) year or less than one (1)
year shall be by resolution or ordinance.
(9-26-2000)
ARTICLE 14.0
MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS
SECTION 14.1. INTERPRETATION
   (a)   Except as otherwise specifically provided in or indicated by the
context, all words used in this Charter indicating the present tense shall not
be limited to the time of the adoption of this Charter, but shall extend to and
include the time of the happening of any event or requirement for which
provision is made herein.
   (b)   Except as otherwise specifically provided in or indicated by the
context, the singular number shall include the plural, the plural shall include
the singular, and the word "person" may extend and be applied to bodies politic
and corporate and to partnerships as well as individuals, and the masculine
gender shall extend to and include the feminine gender.
(9-26-2000)
SECTION 14.2. RESERVATION OF POWER
The Town, acting through this Charter, as it may be amended from time to time,
hereby reserves to itself the power to supersede any law of the State of
Colorado now or hereafter in force, insofar as the actions of the Town apply to
local or municipal affairs, subject only to the restrictions contained in
Article XX of the Colorado Constitution, or other applicable constitutional
limitations.
(9-26-2000)
SECTION 14.3. BEQUESTS, GIFTS AND DONATIONS
The Town Board, on behalf of the Town, may receive or refuse bequests, gifts,
and donations of all kinds of property, tangible or intangible, or other things
of value, in fee simple or trust, for public, charitable, or other purposes,
and do all things and acts necessary to carry out the purpose of such gifts,
bequests, and donations with full power to manage, sell, lease, or otherwise
dispose of same.
(9-26-2000)
SECTION 14.4. EMERGENCY POWERS
In the case of riot, insurrection or emergency, threatening imminent harm to
persons or property, the Mayor and the Town Manager, if one, acting jointly, if
both are reasonably available, shall assume the authority to execute any action
necessary for the protection of life and property. Such authority may include
but not be limited to establishing regulations governing conduct and activities
related to the cause of the emergency, and if the emergency situation
continues, the Mayor shall convene the Board of Trustees who may take such
action as it deems necessary.
(9-26-2000; amd. 4-3-2018)
SECTION 14.5. PENALTIES FOR VIOLATION OF CHARTER
The Board of Trustees may by ordinance provide that a willful or intentional
violation of a provision of this Charter shall be deemed a misdemeanor and may
be prosecuted in the Municipal Court. Any person convicted of such a violation
may be punished by imprisonment for a term not to exceed the maximum term of
imprisonment that the Municipal Court is authorized to impose, by a fine in an
amount not to exceed the maximum fine that the Municipal Court is authorized to
impose, or by both such fine and imprisonment and the court may additionally
impose such other sanction or remedy as is within its authority.
(9-26-2000)
SECTION 14.6. SEVERABILITY OF CHARTER PROVISIONS
If any provision, section or article of this Charter or the application thereof
to any person or circumstance shall be found to be invalid by a court of
competent jurisdiction, such invalidity shall not affect any remaining portion
or section of the Charter which can be given effect without the invalid portion
or section, provided that such remaining portions or applications are not
determined by the court to be invalid or inoperable and to this end the
provisions, sections and articles of the Charter are declared to be severable.
(9-26-2000)
SECTION 14.7. CHARTER AMENDMENTS
This Charter may be amended at any time in the manner provided by the
Constitution of the State of Colorado. Nothing herein contained shall be
construed as preventing submission to the people of more than one Charter
amendment at any one election. If provisions of two or more proposed amendments
adopted or approved at the same election conflict, the amendment receiving the
highest affirmative vote shall become effective.
(9-26-2000)
SECTION 14.8. SATURDAYS, SUNDAYS, AND HOLIDAYS
Whenever the date fixed by this Charter or by ordinance for the doing or
completion of any act or the happening of any event falls on a Saturday,
Sunday, or legal holiday, such act shall be done or completed or the event
shall occur on the next succeeding day which is not a Saturday, Sunday or legal
holiday.
(9-26-2000)
SECTION 14.9. DEFINITIONS
As used in this Charter, the following words shall have the following meanings
unless the context indicates otherwise:
   "Appropriation" shall mean the authorized amount of monies set aside for
expenditure during a specified time for a specific purpose.
   "Board," "Board of Trustees" shall mean Board of Trustees of the Town of
Morrison, Colorado, consisting of the Mayor and all Trustees.
   "Board or Commission" shall mean the boards or commissions established by or
pursuant to article 12.0.
   "Cause" shall mean a substantial breach of an elected official's duties and
obligations to the Town, or other elected or appointed officials or employees
of the Town, and shall include, without limitation, conviction of a serious
crime or misdemeanor, dishonesty, serious neglect of duty or intentional acts
causing serious injury to the Town, its property or its interests.
   "Constitution," "State Constitution" shall mean the Constitution of the
State of Colorado as from time to time amended.
   "Department" shall mean a distinct functional area or division of Town
operations as defined by the Board of Trustees.
   "Directive" shall mean authoritative instructions; a command; an order.
   "Disability" shall mean a condition rendering a person temporarily or
permanently unable to discharge one or more essential functions of his/her
office of position.
   "Emergency" shall mean an existing condition actually arising from
unforeseen circumstances which immediately endangers public property, health,
peace or safety.
   "Employee" shall mean the Town Manager, Town Clerk, Police Chief, each
department head, and also means each compensated person in Municipal service
who is designated as an employee in the personnel rules, regulations, or
policies of the Town.
   "Fair Campaign Practices Act" shall mean article 45 of title 1, C.R.S. as it
may be amended from time to time.
   "Franchise" shall mean an irrevocable privilege granted by the Town
permitting a specified use of public property for a specified length of time.
   "Internet Website" shall mean an electronic medium accessible by the general
public through widely available telecommunication devices.
   "Manager", "Town Manager" shall mean that individual appointed to that
position pursuant to section 7.1 by the Board of Trustees.
   "May" shall be construed as permissive.
   "Member" shall mean those elected to the Board of Trustees including the
Mayor.
   "Officer" shall mean any person elected to office or appointed by the Board.
   "Organizational Meeting" shall mean the first meeting of the Board of
Trustees following a regular election.
   "Overlapping Terms" shall mean terms of office of the expiration of which
are staggered, as nearly as practicable, so that terms of office for no more
than three Trustees expire at one time.
   "Posted" shall mean placed in a manner to be easily read and likely to
remain until removed by the Town, in an easily accessible, previously
identified location.
   "Public Place" shall mean a place where the public has lawful and reasonably
easy access.
   "Qualified Elector" shall mean a person possessing the qualifications
entitling them to register to vote in a Municipal election under the Municipal
Election Code, article 10 of title 31, Colorado Revised Statutes.
   "Registered Elector" shall mean a qualified elector who has registered to
vote in a Town election pursuant to the Municipal Election Code, article 10,
title 31, C.R.S.
   "Regular Election" shall mean that Town election held on the first Tuesday
in April in even numbered years.
   "Shall" shall be construed as directive.
   "State Statutes" shall mean the Statutes of the State of Colorado as from
time to time amended.
   "Town" shall mean the Town of Morrison, Colorado.
   "Trustee" shall mean any member of the Board of Trustees except the Mayor.
(9-26-2000; amd. 4-3-2018)
SECTION 14.10. LIMITATIONS OF ACTIONS
No action or proceeding contesting the validity or enforceability of any
section or provision contained in this Charter shall be brought unless
commenced within forty-five days after the adoption of this Charter.
(9-26-2000)
ARTICLE 15.0
TRANSITIONAL PROVISIONS
SECTION 15.1. STATUS OF TRANSITIONAL PROVISIONS
The purpose of this article is to provide for an orderly transition from the
present Town government of Morrison to a home rule government under the
provisions of this Charter. This article shall constitute a part of this
Charter during the transition period only to the extent required to accomplish
that purpose.
(9-26-2000)
SECTION 15.2. EFFECTIVE DATE OF CHARTER
This Charter shall become effective immediately upon voter approval, except
that those provisions of Article 8.0 relating to the preparation and submission
of the budget and capital program shall become effective for the next fiscal
year following the Charter election. Those provisions in Article 2.0 relating
to the election of the Board shall become effective at the first general
election scheduled under this Charter to be held in April, 2002.
(9-26-2000)
SECTION 15.3. PRIOR TOWN LEGISLATION
All ordinances and resolutions of the Town which are not inconsistent with this
Charter and which are in force and effect at the effective date of this Charter
shall continue in full force and effect until repealed or amended. Any
provision of any ordinance, resolution, rule or regulation which is
inconsistent with this Charter is hereby repealed.
(9-26-2000)
SECTION 15.4. PRESENT ELECTED OFFICIALS TO CONTINUE IN OFFICE
The present Board of Trustees and Mayor in office at the time of the adoption
of this Charter shall continue to serve and carry out the functions, powers and
duties of their offices until their successors assume the duties of their
offices.
(9-26-2000)
SECTION 15.5. CONTINUATION OF APPOINTED OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES
Except as otherwise provided herein, after the effective date of this Charter,
all appointive officers and all employees of the Town shall continue in that
Town office or employment which corresponds to the Town office or employment
which they held prior to the effective date of this Charter as though they had
been appointed or employed in the manner provided in this Charter, except that
any officer or employee who holds a position which this Charter provides to be
held at the pleasure of the appointing officer or body, shall hold such
position only at such pleasure regardless of the term for which originally
appointed.
(9-26-2000)
SECTION 15.6. CONTINUATION OF PRESENT BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS
All boards and commissions in existence at the time of the adoption of this
Charter shall continue to function under the provisions of this Charter and
ordinances in effect at the time of its adoption until modified by ordinance.
(9-26-2000)
SECTION 15.7. SAVING CLAUSE
After the effective date of this Charter, the Town shall be vested with all
property, monies, contracts, rights, credits, effects and the records, files,
books, and papers heretofore or hereafter belonging to it under and by virtue
of operation of any applicable law.
No right or liability, either in favor of or against the Town, existing at the
time this Charter becomes effective and no suit or prosecution of any character
shall in any manner be affected by any change, resulting from the adoption of
this Charter, but the same shall stand or proceed as if no change had been
made. All debts and liabilities of the Town shall continue to be the debts and
liabilities of the Town and all fines and penalties imposed at the time of such
change shall be collected.
(9-26-2000)
SECTION 15.8. CORRECTION OF GRAMMATICAL AND SYNTACTICAL ERRORS
The Board of Trustees is hereby authorized to make corrections as to the form,
but not the substance, of this Charter, including the correction of syntactical
and grammatical errors, so as to make the language of the Charter conform to
its intent.
(9-26-2000)
   TOWN OF MORRISON
   HOME RULE CHARTER COMMISSION
   CERTIFICATE OF ADOPTION
   We, the undersigned, the members of the Town of Morrison Charter Commission,
duly elected by the citizens of Morrison at an election held on April 4, 2000,
to frame a proposed Home Rule Charter for the Town, do hereby certify that the
foregoing is the proposed Charter as finally approved and adopted by the
members of the Commission on the 26th day of July, 2000, for submission to the
Board of Trustees, and to the registered electors of the Town.
      /s/         
         Lewis Stieghorst, Chairperson
/s/      /s/   
Kathleen A. Dichter      John ("Jack") Phillips
/s/      /s/   
Richard A. Scott      Jamee Rogers Chambers
/s/      /s/   
Allen R. Williams      Wayne M. Jacobson
/s/      /s/   
Donna J. Smith      Brian K. Bogert
Counsel to the Commission:      Secretary to the Commission:
/s/      /s/   
Richard L. Miller      Sheri Atencio-Church
         Town Manager:
               
         David E. Clyne
   TOWN OF MORRISON
   CERTIFICATE OF ELECTOR APPROVAL
   I hereby certify that the foregoing is the Home Rule Charter as approved by
the registered electors of the Town of Morrison at an election held on
September 26, 2000.
   TOWN OF MORRISON
   HOME RULE CHARTER COMMISSION
(9-26-2000; amd. 4-3-2018)
TITLE 1
ADMINISTRATION
CHAPTER 1
OFFICIAL TOWN CODE
SECTION:
1-1-1: Title, Citation, Reference
1-1-2: Enactment Authority
1-1-3: Authority To Establish Fees
1-1-4: Legislative Authority
1-1-5: Authority To Make Ordinances
1-1-6: Reference To Specific Ordinances
1-1-1: TITLE, CITATION, REFERENCE:
   A.   Upon adoption by the Board of Trustees, this Code is hereby declared to
be the Official Code of the Town of Morrison.
   B.   This Code shall be known as the MORRISON MUNICIPAL CODE, and it shall
be sufficient to refer to the Code as the Morrison Municipal Code, the
Municipal Code, or the Morrison Code, in any prosecution for the violation of
any provision thereof or in any proceeding at law or equity. It shall be
sufficient to designate any ordinance adding to, amending, correcting or
repealing all or any portion thereof as an addition to, amendment to,
correction or repeal of the Morrison Municipal Code. Further reference may be
had to the titles, chapters, sections and subsections of the Morrison Municipal
Code, and such references shall apply to that numbered title, chapter, section
or subsection as it appears in the Code. (Ord. 261, 4-16-1996)
1-1-2: ENACTMENT AUTHORITY:
The Board of Trustees finds, determines and declares that the ordinances
codified in this publication are adopted under the general police power of the
Town of Morrison and are necessary for the general health, safety and welfare
of the community and each bears a rational relation to the proper legislative
object sought to be attained. (Ord. 261, 4-16-1996)
1-1-3: AUTHORITY TO ESTABLISH FEES:
   A.   The Board of Trustees shall have the authority to impose and to modify
from time to time, by resolution, all fees or charges for applications,
petitions or requests for services, actions, permits, reviews or approvals
which the Town is authorized under any statute, ordinance, regulation or other
law to impose.
   B.   In establishing appropriate fees or charges, the Board of Trustees is
authorized to provide that a fee shall be a minimum fee plus the actual,
reasonable costs, fees and expenses incurred in the specific action.
   C.   The Board of Trustees is authorized to delegate by resolution the
authority to estimate the actual, reasonable costs, fees and expenses which
will be incurred by the Town in reviewing or processing any application,
petition, request or permit and to require a deposit of this amount or any
portion thereof as a condition of acceptance of such application, petition,
request or permit by the Town.
   D.   This Section shall not repeal, amend or affect any fine or penalty
existing on this date of enactment of this C
ode or established elsewhere in the Code. (Ord. 261, 4-16-1996)
1-1-4: LEGISLATIVE AUTHORITY:
The legislative and corporate authority of the Town is vested in the Mayor and
the Board of Trustees. The Board of Trustees shall possess all the legislative
powers of the Town and all other corporate powers not conferred by State law or
this Code on some other officer of the Town. Its powers shall include the
management and control of the finances and all the property, real and personal,
belonging to the Town. All references to the Town in this Code shall mean the
Town of Morrison, Colorado. (Ord. 261, 4-16-1996)
1-1-5: AUTHORITY TO MAKE ORDINANCES:
The Board of Trustees has the power to make and publish ordinances consistent
with the laws of the State for purposes of providing for the safety, preserving
the health, promoting the prosperity and improving the order, comfort and
convenience of the Town and its residents. All references to the Board or Board
of Trustees shall mean the Board of Trustees of the Town of Morrison, Colorado.
(Ord. 261, 4-16-1996)
1-1-6: REFERENCE TO SPECIFIC ORDINANCES:
The provisions of this Code shall not in any manner affect matters of record
which refer to or are otherwise connected with ordinances which are therein
specifically designated by number or otherwise and which are included within
the Code, but such reference shall be construed to apply to the corresponding
provisions contained within this Code. (Ord. 261, 4-16-1996)
CHAPTER 2
SAVING CLAUSE
SECTION:
1-2-1: Severability
1-2-2: Saving Clause
1-2-1: SEVERABILITY:
If any section, subsection, sentence, clause or phrase of this Code is for any
reason held to be invalid or unconstitutional, such decision shall not affect
the validity of the remaining portions of the Code. The Board of Trustees
hereby declares that it would have passed this Code, and each section,
subsection, sentence, clause and phrase thereof, irrespective of the fact that
any one or more sections, subsections, sentences, clauses or phrases had been
declared invalid or unconstitutional, and if for any reason this Code should be
declared invalid or unconstitutional, then the original ordinance or ordinances
shall be in full force and effect. (Ord. 261, 4-16-1996)
1-2-2: SAVING CLAUSE:
The repeal of any ordinance or part thereof by the adoption of this Code shall
not affect, deny, abridge or impair any right, action or cause of action
securing or arising under the ordinance or section so repealed, and such right,
action or cause of action shall survive notwithstanding such repeal. No offense
committed and no fine, forfeiture or penalty incurred before any ordinance or
part thereof is repealed by the Code shall be affected, released, or in any way
discharged by such repeal, but trial, conviction and punishment for any such
offense and the recovery of fines, forfeitures and penalties shall be had in
all respects as if the repealed provisions had remained in force. (Ord. 261, 4-
16-1996)
CHAPTER 3
CODE RULES AND REGULATIONS
SECTION:
1-3-1: Grammatical Rules
1-3-2: Interpretation Of Language
1-3-3: Computation Of Time
1-3-4: Title, Chapter And Section Headings
1-3-5: Publication Requirements
1-3-1: GRAMMATICAL RULES:
The following grammatical rules shall apply in this code, unless it is apparent
from the context that a different construction is intended:
   A.   Gender: Each gender includes the masculine, feminine and neuter
genders.
   B.   Singular And Plural: The singular number includes the plural and the
plural includes the singular.
   C.   Tense: Words used in the present tense include the past and the future
tenses and vice versa, unless plainly inapplicable. (Ord. 261, 4-16-1996)
1-3-2: INTERPRETATION OF LANGUAGE:
All words and phrases shall be construed according to the common and approved
usage of the language, but technical words and phrases and such others as may
have acquired a peculiar and appropriate meaning in the law shall be construed
and understood according to such peculiar and appropriate meaning. (Ord. 261,
4-16-1996)
1-3-3: COMPUTATION OF TIME:
Except when otherwise provided, the time within which an act is required to be
done shall be computed by including the first day and the last day, unless the
last day is Sunday or a holiday, in which case it shall be excluded. (Ord. 261,
4-16-1996)
1-3-4: TITLE, CHAPTER AND SECTION HEADINGS:
Title, chapter, and section headings contained in this code shall not be deemed
to govern, limit, or modify or in any manner affect the scope, meaning or
intent of the provisions of any title, chapter or section hereof. (Ord. 261, 4-
16-1996)
1-3-5: PUBLICATION REQUIREMENTS:
Wherever publication is required by state law or the home rule charter or
ordinances of the town, this requirement shall be satisfied by the following:
   A.   Posting: "Publication" means physical posting at one location within
the town which shall be accessible by the public twenty four (24) hours per
day, and in addition, contemporaneous posting on the town's official website.
(Ord. 441, 2-7-2017)
   B.   Affidavit Of Posting: The town clerk shall complete an affidavit of
posting attesting to the date of posting of each ordinance or document
requiring publication, which shall be kept in the records of the town with the
original of the ordinance or document so published.
   C.   Newspaper: In addition to the foregoing publication, ordinances shall
be published once by title and penalty provision only in a newspaper of general
circulation within the town. The affidavit of such publication shall be
maintained by the town clerk in the town records.
   D.   Effective Date: The effective date of any ordinance published in
accordance with the procedures set forth above shall be thirty (30) days after
adoption and the required publication. (Ord. 358, 11-18-2008)
CHAPTER 4
GENERAL PENALTY
SECTION:
1-4-1: Penalties Established
1-4-2: Aiding And Abetting
1-4-3: Corporations; Offenses
1-4-4: Prohibited Acts
1-4-1: PENALTIES ESTABLISHED:
   A.   General Penalty: Whenever in any section of this Code, or any other
ordinance, rule or regulation of the Town, with the exception of title 6,
"Motor Vehicles And Traffic," of this Code, the doing of any act is required,
prohibited or declared to be unlawful, any person who pleads guilty or nolo
contendere, or who is convicted of a violation of any such section shall, for
each offense, be fined in a sum of not more than two thousand six hundred fifty
dollars ($2,650.00) or shall be imprisoned for a term of not more than three
hundred sixty-four (364) days, or shall be both so fined and imprisoned. As a
part of such sentence, the court may order restitution to any aggrieved party
for actual damage or loss caused by the offense to which a defendant pled
guilty, nolo contendere, or was convicted. The defendant shall be guilty of a
separate offense for each and every day during any portion of which any
violation is committed, continued or permitted, and such person shall be
punished accordingly. The Municipal Judge may suspend all or part of a sentence
or fine of any defendant, and/or place the defendant on probation for a period
not to exceed three hundred sixty-four (364) days.
   B.   Imposition Of Penalty: In all cases where the same offense is made
punishable or is created by different clauses or sections of this Code, the
prosecuting officer may elect under which clause or section to proceed; but not
more than one recovery shall be had against the same person for the same
offense; provided, that the revocation of a license or permit shall not be
considered a recovery or penalty so as to bar any other penalty being enforced.
   C.   Act Constituting Breach: Whenever the doing of any act or the omission
to do any act constitutes a breach of any section or provision of this Code and
there shall be no fine or penalty specifically declared for such breach, the
provisions of this chapter shall apply.
   D.   Collection Of Fines: The Municipal Court Judge, Town Clerk or Town
Administrator are authorized to use any lawful method of collecting fines,
fees, default judgments, personal recognizance bond forfeitures, and civil
penalties due from any person assessed such sums by the Municipal Court,
including reasonable costs of collection. The Town shall be entitled to receive
the reasonable costs of collection in addition to the amounts otherwise due,
and interest at the statutory rate for unpaid civil judgments. Reasonable costs
of collection shall include, without limitation, the fees and costs of the Town
Attorney or of private counsel or a collection agency, but such fees and costs
shall not exceed twenty five percent (25%) of the amount collected. (Ord. 261,
4-16-1996; amd. Ord. 372, 2-16-2010; Ord. 475, 6-4-2019; Ord. 493, 6-2-2020;
Ord. 493, 6-2-2020)
1-4-2: AIDING AND ABETTING:
Every person who commits, attempts to commit, conspires to commit, aids or
abets a commission of any act declared to be in violation of this Code or any
other ordinance of this Municipality, whether individually, or in connection
with one or more persons, as a principal or accomplice, is guilty of such
offense and subject to penalty or penalties therefor; and every person who
fraudulently or wilfully induces, causes, coerces, requires or directs another
to violate any provision of this Code or any other ordinance of this
Municipality is likewise guilty of such offense and subject to the penalties
therefor. (Ord. 261, 4-16-1996)
1-4-3: CORPORATIONS; OFFENSES:
   A.   Liability Of Corporations: A corporation is guilty of an offense if the
conduct constituting the offense is engaged in, authorized, solicited,
requested, commanded or knowingly tolerated by the board of directors or by a
managerial agent acting within the scope of his employment or on behalf of the
corporation. As used in this section, "agent" means any director, officer or
employee of a corporation, or any other person who is authorized to act on
behalf of the corporation, and "managerial agent" means an officer of a
corporation or any other agent in a position of authority with respect to the
formulation of corporate policy or the supervision in a managerial capacity of
subordinate employees.
   B.   Individual Liability For Corporate Conduct: A person is criminally
liable for conduct constituting an offense which he performs or causes to occur
in the name of or on behalf of a corporation to the same extent as if such
conduct were performed or caused by him in his own name or behalf. (Ord. 261,
4-16-1996)
1-4-4: PROHIBITED ACTS:
Whenever in this Code any act or omission is made unlawful, it shall include
causing, allowing, permitting, aiding, abetting, suffering or concealing the
fact of such act or omission. (Ord. 261, 4-16-1996)
CHAPTER 5
MAYOR AND BOARD OF TRUSTEES
SECTION:
1-5-1: Election; Terms Of Office
1-5-2: Meetings
1-5-3: Vacancies
1-5-4: Compensation
1-5-1: ELECTION; TERMS OF OFFICE:
   A.   Elective Officers: The elective officers of the Town shall be a Mayor
and six (6) Trustees who shall be elected and hold office in accordance with
applicable statutes and this Code.
   B.   Terms Of Office: The Mayor shall hold office for a term of four (4)
years. Trustees shall each hold office for a term of four (4) years subject to
the provisions of subsection C of this section.
   C.   Staggered Terms Of Office:
      1.   At each regular election, three (3) Trustees shall be elected to
serve four (4) year terms.
      2.   At the November 3, 2026 election, and at the regular election every
four (4) years thereafter, a Mayor shall be elected to serve a four (4) year
term. (Ord. 177, 8-7-1985; amd. Ord. 517, 9-20-2022)
1-5-2: MEETINGS:
The Board of Trustees of the Town shall hold its regular meetings on the first
and third Tuesdays of each month commencing at six o'clock (6:00) P.M. The
Board of Trustees may adjourn regular or special meetings to a date certain,
from time to time, and may, in its discretion, hold special meetings and study
sessions upon proper notice. (Ord. 262, 5-21-1996; amd. Ord. 517, 9-20-2022)
1-5-3: VACANCIES:
The Board of Trustees has the power, by appointment, to fill all vacancies on
the Board, including Mayor, or any other office, and the person so appointed
shall hold office until the next regular election and until a successor is
elected and takes the oath of office. The Board also has the power to fill a
vacancy on the Board, including Mayor, by ordering an election to fill the
vacancy until the next regular election. A special election may not be ordered
to fill a vacancy if the vacancy occurs ninety (90) days or less before a
regular election and in that event, the vacancy shall be filled at the regular
election. If a vacancy on the Board, including Mayor, is not filled by
appointment within sixty (60) days of the date of the vacancy, and no regular
election is scheduled within ninety (90) days of the date the vacancy occurs,
then a special election must be called as soon as practicable to fill the
vacancy until the next regular election and until a successor has been elected
and qualified. Where a vacancy exists or vacancies exist or where an
appointment has been made to fill a vacancy with the result that more than
three (3) Trustee positions are subject to election at any regular election,
the three (3) candidates receiving the greatest number of votes shall serve
four (4) year terms and the remaining Trustee or Trustees shall serve only
until the next regularly scheduled election. (Ord. 463, 7-3-2018; amd. Ord.
517, 9-20-2022)
1-5-4: COMPENSATION:
The Mayor and Members of the Board of Trustees shall receive the following
compensation, commencing with terms of office beginning on and after the town
election in November 2026:
   A.   Mayor: Seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) per month; and
   B.   Trustee: Five hundred dollars ($500.00) per month. (Ord. 517, 9-20-
2022)
CHAPTER 6
OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES
SECTION:
1-6-1: Control Of Appointed Officers
1-6-2: Social Security Plan Established
1-6-3: Voluntary Salary Redirection Plan
1-6-4: Interference With Officers
1-6-1: CONTROL OF APPOINTED OFFICERS:
Each appointive officer of the town shall be subject to the control and orders
of the mayor, and may be removed from office by a majority vote of the board of
trustees. (Ord. 190, 4-15-1986)
1-6-2: SOCIAL SECURITY PLAN ESTABLISHED:
   A.   Statutory Authority:
      1.   The town is hereby authorized to execute and deliver to the
department of employment security, state of Colorado, a plan or plans and
agreement required under section 5 of the enabling act and the social security
act to extend coverage to employees of the town and do all other necessary
things to effectuate coverage of employees under the old age and survivors'
insurance system.
      2.   Authority is given to the mayor and the clerk of the town to enter
into an agreement with the department of employment security, state of
Colorado, which agreement shall be in accordance with house bill 291 and with
paragraph 218 of the social security act. Such plan and agreement shall provide
that the participation of this town shall be in effect as of January 15, 1964.
   B.   Implementation: The clerk is hereby authorized to establish a system of
payroll deduction to be matched by payments by the town to be paid into the
contribution fund of the state through the department of employment security,
and to make charges of this tax to the fund, or funds, from which wage or
salary payments are issued to employees of the town. Such payments are to be
made in accordance with the provisions of sections 1400 and 1410 of the federal
insurance contribution act on all services which constitute employment within
the meaning of that act.
   C.   Payments Due: Payments made to the department of employment security,
state of Colorado, shall be due and payable on or before the eighteenth day of
the month immediately following the completed calendar quarter, and such
payments which are delinquent shall bear interest at the rate of one-half of
one percent (0.5%) per month until such time as payments are made.
Appropriation is hereby made from the proper fund or funds of the town in the
necessary amount to pay into the contribution fund as provided in section 5(c)
(1) of the enabling act and in accordance with the plan or plans and agreement.
(Ord. 70, 1-8-1964, eff. 1-15-1964)
1-6-3: VOLUNTARY SALARY REDIRECTION PLAN:
   A.   Definitions:
   FLEX CASH ACCOUNT: Flexible spending accounts established for the purpose of
holding and distributing the participants' funds under the auspices of the
salary redirection plan.
   PARTICIPANT: Any individual who fulfills the eligibility and enrollment
requirements as defined in the plan.
   PERSONNEL COMMITTEE OR COMMITTEE: The personnel committee of the town as
designated by the board of trustees, as well as the town administrator. The
principal responsibility shall be the formulation and adoption of a plan and
policies and procedures designed to guide, direct and administer the plan. The
town attorney shall serve as an ex officio nonvoting member of the committee.
   PLAN YEAR: January 1 to December 31 of each year.
   SALARY: The monthly salary or wages.
   SALARY REDIRECTION PLAN: A plan whereby employees and officers of the town
may agree to a reduction of salary which reduction will allow the employee to
pay for various preselected flexible benefit choices pursuant to sections 125
and 129 of the IRC, i.e., medical care and dependent care expenses or other
specifically described benefit choices that may be offered under the plan.
(Ord. 209, 7-19-1988; amd. Ord. 420, 6-2-2015)
   B.   Creation And Administration:
      1.   The town is authorized to enter into salary reduction agreements
with employees pursuant to sections 125 and 129 of the internal revenue code
(IRC) for the purpose of making it possible for employees to select on a
"before tax basis" certain taxable and nontaxable benefits pursuant to section
125 of the IRC. The purpose of the "salary redirection plan", as hereinabove
defined, is to attract and retain individuals in municipal service with the
town by permitting them to enter into agreements with the town to provide for
benefits as specified in the plan by the town.
      2.   The salary redirection plan allows the town and the employee to
agree to a reduction of salary, which reduction will allow the employee to pay
for various preselected flexible benefit choices pursuant to sections 125 and
129 of the IRC, i.e., medical care and dependent care expenses or other
specifically described benefit choices that may be offered under the salary
redirection plan.
      3.   Nothing contained in the salary redirection plan shall be deemed to
constitute an employment agreement between the participant and the town, and
nothing contained in the participant's salary redirection agreement, the plan
or this chapter shall be deemed to give a participant any right to be retained
in the employ of the town.
      4.   The personnel committee shall function as the salary redirection
plan committee for the purposes of this chapter. The committee will be
responsible for adopting the plan and the policies and procedures designed to
guide, direct and administer the plan. The policies and procedures for the
administration of the plan shall be consistent with existing town ordinances,
Colorado statutes and the IRC.
      5.   The funds held by the town in flex cash accounts shall be held by
the town in an interest bearing flex cash account and the interest shall be
used to defray all or part of the cost of administering the plan. Any excess
interest shall become part of the general fund as shall unclaimed monies
remaining in the flex cash accounts at the end of the plan year. The committee
may assess each participant a fee for administering the plan. It is the intent
of the board not to appropriate money from the general fund for any expense
relating to the administration of the plan, except that the cost of
administering the plan may be financed by appropriation from the general fund
of an amount equivalent to actually realized savings experienced due to
reductions in employer contributions required for the retirement plan, under
the social security act and other similar savings.
      6.   The town may engage the services of a professional consultant or
administrator on a contractual basis to serve as an agent to assist the
committee in implementing this plan.
   C.   Participation In The Plan:
      1.   Eligible Person: All permanent and part time employees of the town
who have been employed at least six (6) months shall be eligible to participate
in the plan and reduce their salary by agreement with the town.
      2.   Salary Reduction Agreement: Eligible persons are authorized to enter
into salary reduction agreements with the town.
      3.   Enrollment In The Plan:
         a.   In the initial year of the plan, an eligible person may become a
participant after the adoption of the plan and before its effective date by
agreeing to have a portion of his/her gross salary reduced and deposited into a
flex cash account to be used for reimbursement of expenses covered by the plan.
         b.   After the initial year of the plan, an eligible person may become
a participant for a full plan year, with annual benefit selection for each new
plan year to be made prior to January 1 of the new plan year or upon becoming
an eligible person.
         c.   Once an eligible person elects to participate and determines the
amount his or her salary shall be reduced and the benefits for which the funds
are to be used during the plan year, the agreement shall be irrevocable and may
not be amended during the plan year except as provided in subsection C4 of this
section.
         d.   The Committee shall provide in the Plan that a participant may
enroll, terminate or change his/her election when there is a significant change
in a participant's status, as provided by section 125 of the IRC and the
regulations adopted by the Internal Revenue Service.
      4.   Individual Withdrawal From The Plan: The Committee shall establish
as part of the Plan the procedures for and effect of withdrawal from the plan
by reason of retirement, death, leave of absence or termination of employment.
   D.   Amendment Or Termination Of Plan:
      1.   The Town may at any time terminate the Plan. Upon such
determination, the participants in the Plan will be deemed to have withdrawn
from the Plan as of the date of such termination. Balances remaining in the
participants' flex-cash account(s) shall be returned to the participant
pursuant to policies established by the Committee.
      2.   The Committee may amend the Plan at any time; provided, that no
amendment shall affect the rights of the participants to receive eligible
reimbursements from the participants' flex-cash account(s).
   E.   Applicable Law: The Plan shall be construed under all applicable State
laws, IRC and the ordinances of the Town.
   F.   Audit Of Accounts: A complete audit of the Plan shall be conducted
yearly. A written report containing the results of this audit shall be
submitted to the Board of Trustees for acceptance and approval. (Ord. 209, 7-
19-1988)
1-6-4: INTERFERENCE WITH OFFICERS:
Every person who shall wilfully assault, impede or in any way interfere with
any officer or employee of this Town in the execution of any duty authorized to
be, by any such officer or employee, performed, under and pursuant to any
ordinance of the Town shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and fined, upon
conviction, as provided in Section
1-4-1 of this Code. (Ord. 190, 4-15-1986; amd. Ord. 261, 4-16-1996)
CHAPTER 7
TOWN ADMINISTRATOR
SECTION:
1-7-1: Position Established
1-7-2: Authority And Duties Designated
1-7-1: POSITION ESTABLISHED:
The Town Administrator shall be the Chief Administrative Officer of the Town of
Morrison under the direction of the Mayor and Board of Trustees ("Board") as
provided for in the Home Rule Charter. The Town Administrator shall have
commensurate authority and responsibility for the efficient and effective
administration of the affairs and operation of the Town such as general
administration, budget and fiscal control, personnel administration, Code
enforcement, policy implementation and other duties and responsibilities as may
be assigned. (Ord. 312, 6-19-2001)
1-7-2: AUTHORITY AND DUTIES DESIGNATED:
The Town Administrator shall have the following duties, responsibilities and
authority:
   A.   Administrative:
      1.   Attend meetings of the Town Board and participate in discussions in
an advisory capacity, and attend such other meetings as the Board may
designate.
      2.   Prepare or cause to have prepared all records required by law to be
kept by the Town and not by a specific officer, and have custody of all such
records.
      3.   Enforce the laws and ordinances of the Town.
      4.   Enforce all terms and conditions in any contract or public utility
franchise, as delegated by the Board, and upon knowledge of any violation
thereof, report to the Board such action and proceedings as may be necessary to
enforce such contract or franchise.
      5.   Prepare, or cause to be prepared, monthly reports for the Town Board
about all aspects of Town operations.
      6.   Be responsible for the efficient administration of the Town office
and coordination of all departments of the Town government.
      7.   Perform such other duties as may be prescribed by ordinance or by
the Town Board.
   B.   Fiscal:
      1.   Prepare, as part of the budget process, an administrative
organization chart for the operation of the Town administration and other
departments.
      2.   Prepare and recommend an annual budget to the Board with assistance
from department heads.
      3.   Implement and administer the budget as approved.
      4.   Keep the Board fully advised at all times as to the financial
condition of the Town.
      5.   Maintain budgetary and fiscal control through accepted fiscal and
accounting procedures.
      6.   Oversee the daily fiscal operation of the Town office, and project
cash flow needs to assure that adequate funds are available as needed. (Ord.
312, 6-19-2001)
   C.   Personnel:
      1.   Serve as the Personnel Director for the Town. The Town Administrator
shall have the authority to hire, discipline, and terminate all employees in
accordance with policies and procedures approved by the Board. (Ord. 446, 9-19-
2017)
      2.   Develop and recommend to the Board for adoption appropriate
personnel policies, rules and regulations for effective personnel
administration and to maintain compliance with applicable laws and statutes.
      3.   Prepare and recommend to the board for adoption benefit programs for
employees.
      4.   Prepare a wage and salary program for adoption by the board.
   D.   Consultants:
      1.   Act as primary contact person with consultants engaged by the town
or under contract or agreement executed by the town for specific projects.
      2.   Prepare request for proposals, and negotiate the scope of work and
contracts with consultants for recommendation and adoption by the board.
      3.   Report to, and advise the board, on activities and progress of
consultants.
      4.   Submit final report and recommendations to the board.
      5.   Implement results in accordance with direction of the board.
   E.   Contracts:
      1.   Serve as the primary contact person in negotiations between the town
and other parties on agreements, contracts, permits, acquisitions, leases and
other matters.
      2.   Submit reports to the town board on the status of contracts, and any
requested changes, for projects in process.
      3.   Work with the town attorney and board members as required on a case
by case basis to negotiate and prepare contracts. (Ord. 312, 6-19-2001)
      4.   Sign contracts and agreements on behalf of the town, within the
limitations of the administrator's spending authority as established in the
town's approved financial policies, as the same are amended from time to time.
(Ord. 416, 3-16-2015)
   F.   Intergovernmental:
      1.   Primary contact person coordinating and communicating with county,
regional, state, federal, and other city/town governments.
      2.   Advise the board of activities and other intergovernmental programs
or actions that impact the town of Morrison.
      3.   Advise the board on grants and other financial techniques and
strategies. Prepare, or work with others to prepare grant applications.
Administer grants, if funded, in accordance with direction by the board.
   G.   Public Information:
      1.   Coordinate with the mayor and then communicate with the public.
      2.   Perform public relations activities for the town and provide liaison
with various media, civic groups, and the general public.
   H.   Accountability: Prepare and/or cooperate in the preparation for the
board of monitoring reports to provide data on the fulfillment of town policies
and functions. These reports may be requested from time to time by the board as
a whole, by a board committee with board approval or by a board member with
board approval, shall be based upon specific expectations and criteria
developed by the board, and shall be used as part of the performance evaluation
of the administrator. The monitoring report may be obtained in one or more of
the following forms:
      1.   Internal Report: Disclosure of requested information to the board in
a written report by the administrator;
      2.   External Report: Obtaining of pertinent information by a person who
is chosen by and reports directly to the board.
      3.   Direct Board Inspection: Obtaining of pertinent information,
including the inspection of documents, activities or circumstances, by the
board as a whole, a board committee, or a board member with formal approval by
the board.
   I.   Other:
      1.   Assume additional duties and responsibilities as necessary or as
requested by the mayor and/or the town board. (Ord. 312, 6-19-2001)
CHAPTER 8
MUNICIPAL COURT
SECTION:
1-8-1: Creation
1-8-2: Appropriations
1-8-3: Municipal Judge Qualifications
1-8-4: Acting Municipal Judge
1-8-5: Compensation
1-8-6: Municipal Court Clerk
1-8-7: Jurisdiction
1-8-8: Powers And Procedures
1-8-9: Removal Of Municipal Judge
1-8-10: Monthly Report; Disbursement Of Funds
1-8-11: Sessions Of Court
1-8-12: Appeals
1-8-1: CREATION:
A municipal court in and for the town is hereby created and established to hear
and try all cases arising under the ordinances of the town and as may otherwise
be conferred by statute or ordinance. Such court shall be a qualified municipal
court of record as defined at section 13-10-102(3), Colorado Revised Statutes.
(Ord. 380, 4-19-2011)
1-8-2: APPROPRIATIONS:
The board of trustees shall annually appropriate an amount sufficient to pay
the salary of the municipal judge or judges, the clerical help, office help,
office expenses and expense of supplies necessary to carry out the provisions
of this chapter. (Ord. 94, 1-7-1970)
1-8-3: MUNICIPAL JUDGE QUALIFICATIONS:
The municipal court shall be presided over by a municipal judge, who has been
admitted to, and who shall be currently licensed in, the practice of law in
Colorado at the time of his appointment and during his term of office. (Ord.
380, 4-19-2011)
1-8-4: ACTING MUNICIPAL JUDGE:
In case of the temporary absence, sickness or other inability of the municipal
judge to act, the mayor may appoint some competent person to act as such
municipal judge until the disability of the municipal judge is removed. Any
such appointment must be in writing. Such acting municipal judge shall receive
the same compensation for the time he/she has acted as would have been received
by the municipal judge. (Ord. 94, 1-7-1970)
1-8-5: COMPENSATION:
The fixed annual compensation of the municipal court judge shall be established
by the Board of Trustees pursuant to charter section
6.2(d).
(Ord. 330, 1-3-2006; amd. Ord. 497, 8-4-2020)
1-8-6: MUNICIPAL COURT CLERK:
There is hereby established the position of municipal court clerk of the town.
The clerk shall be appointed by the town manager and shall have such duties as
are delegated by ordinance or other law, court rule or by the town manager. The
salary of the municipal court clerk shall be established by the town manager.
(Ord. 330, 1-3-2006; amd. Ord. 500, 11-17-2020)
1-8-7: JURISDICTION:
The municipal court shall have original jurisdiction of all cases arising under
the ordinances of the town with full power to carry the same into effect and to
punish violations thereof by the imposition of such fines and penalties as in
such ordinances are provided, not, however, to exceed a fine or imprisonment as
set forth in section
1-4-1 of this title. (Ord. 222, 6-19-1990; amd. Ord. 261, 4-16-1996; Ord. 380,
4-19-2011)
1-8-8: POWERS AND PROCEDURES:
The municipal judge shall have all judicial powers relating to the operation of
his court, subject to any rules of procedure governing the operation and
conduct of the municipal courts promulgated by the Colorado supreme court. The
presiding municipal judge of the municipal court of the town shall have
authority to issue local rules of procedure consistent with any rules of
procedure adopted by the Colorado supreme court. (Ord. 94, 1-7-1970)
1-8-9: REMOVAL OF MUNICIPAL JUDGE:
A municipal judge may be removed during his term of office only for cause. The
municipal judge may be removed for cause if:
   A.   He is found guilty of a felony or any other crime involving moral
turpitude.
   B.   He has a disability which interferes with the performance of his
duties, and which is, or is likely to become, of a permanent character.
   C.   He has wilfully or persistently failed to perform his duties.
   D.   He is habitually intemperate. (Ord. 94, 1-7-1970)
1-8-10: MONTHLY REPORT; DISBURSEMENT OF FUNDS:
The municipal judge shall be responsible to see that he or the clerk of the
municipal court files a monthly report with the town clerk setting forth all
monies which have been paid into the court for fines, costs, or otherwise
during that preceding month. The report shall state the number of cases filed
in his court, how the same were disposed of, and other matters of information
concerning his office. (Ord. 441, 2-7-2017)
1-8-11: SESSIONS OF COURT:
There shall be regular sessions of court as shall be announced from time to
time by the municipal court judge subject to review and approval of the board
of trustees; provided however, it shall be lawful for said municipal court
judge to hold a special session of court at any time, including Sundays,
holidays and night court, if, in the discretion of the judge, a special session
is deemed advisable. (Ord. 380, 4-19-2011)
1-8-12: APPEALS:
Appeals from the municipal court shall be taken within thirty (30) days of the
decision appealed from in accordance with sections 13-6-310, 13-10-116(2), 13-
10-117, 13-10-118, 13-10-119, Colorado Revised Statutes, rule 37, rule of
criminal procedure, and rule 237 of the Colorado municipal court rules of
procedure. (Ord. 380, 4-19-2011)
CHAPTER 9
ELECTIONS
SECTION:
1-9-1: Write-In Candidates
1-9-2: Canceling Of Election
1-9-3: Terms Of Office
1-9-4: State Election Codes Adopted
1-9-5: Complaints
1-9-1: WRITE-IN CANDIDATES:
No write-in vote for any elected Municipal office in the Town shall be counted
unless an affidavit of intent has been filed with the Town Clerk of the Town
prior to sixty- four (64) days before the election by the person whose name is
to be written in stating that such person desires office and is qualified to
assume the duties of office if elected. (Ord. 231, 3-3-1992; amd. Ord. 484, 12-
3-2019)
1-9-2: CANCELING OF ELECTION:
   A. No Contested Positions: If the only matter before the voters at a
Municipal election in the Town is the election of persons to office, and if, at
the close of business on the sixty-fourth day before the election, there are
not more candidates than offices to be filled at such election, including
candidates filing an affidavit of intent, then the Board of Trustees may, by
resolution, either before or after the sixty- fourth day before the election,
instruct the Town Clerk to cancel the election and by that or another
resolution declare the candidates elected. Upon passage of such resolution, the
candidates shall be deemed elected.
   B. Cancellation Notice To Be Published And Posted: In the event an election
is cancelled in accordance with this Chapter, the Clerk shall cause to be
published before election day, if possible, a notice of cancellation of the
election, and shall post at each polling place, and in at least one other
public place, prior to election day, a notice of cancellation of the election.
(Ord. 231, 3-3-1992; amd. Ord. 484, 12-3-2019)
1-9-3: TERMS OF OFFICE:
In the event that the terms of the offices to be filled at an election are not
the same, and this Chapter would otherwise apply to such election, then the
candidates who would be declared elected if the election were cancelled may,
among themselves, agree who shall have the lesser and the longer terms, and the
result of this agreement shall be announced in the resolution declaring the
candidates elected. In the event the candidates cannot agree, then the election
shall be held and the candidate receiving the most votes shall be elected to
the office with the longest term and the remaining offices shall be filled with
the candidate with the larger vote receiving the office with the longer term
and so on until all offices are filled. (Ord. 231, 3-3-1992)
1-9-4: STATE ELECTION CODES ADOPTED:
Except as otherwise provided by charter or ordinance, including the provisions
of this chapter, the following statutes, as the same presently exist or as they
may be in the future amended, are hereby adopted by the town and shall govern
the conduct of all elections held within the town:
   A.   C.R.S. 31-10-101 et seq., also known as the "Colorado Municipal
Election Code;"
   B.   C.R.S. 1-1-102 et seq., also known as the "Uniform Election Code;" and
   C.   C.R.S. 1-45-101 et seq., also known as the "Fair Campaign Practices
Act;"
   D.   C.R.S. 31-11-101 et seq., the law governing municipal initiatives,
referenda and referred measures;
   E.   C.R.S. 31-4-501, et seq., the law governing municipal recalls; and
   F.   C.R.S. 31-2-201, et seq., the law governing the adoption and amendment
of the Home Rule Charter. (Ord. 499, 10-20-2020)
1-9-5: COMPLAINTS:
   A.   Any person who believes a violation of Article XXVIII of the Colorado
Constitution or the Fair Campaign Practices Act (C.R.S.1-45-101 et seq), as
amended by this Code, has occurred related to a town election may file a
written complaint with the Town Clerk.
   B.   Complaints must be filed no later than ninety (90) calendar days after
the complainant knew or should have known by the exercise of reasonable
diligence of the alleged violation.
   C.   A written complaint filed with the Town Clerk shall include the Town
Clerk's complaint cover sheet which must include the following information:
      1.   The name, address, e-mail address, telephone number and signature of
the complainant (if the complainant is represented by counsel, include the
counsel's name, address, e-mail address, telephone number and signature along
with the name, address, e-mail address, telephone number and signature of the
complainant);
      2.   The name and, if known, the telephone number and address of the
respondent(s) (or each person alleged to have committed a violation);
      3.   The particulars of the violation; and
      4.   Optionally, documentation or other evidence supporting the
allegation.
   D.   If an incomplete complaint is received, the date on which the
originally filed complaint was received is considered the filed date if a
complete copy is received within three (3) business days of notification from
the Town Clerk that the complaint was incomplete.
   E.   A complaint may be submitted by fax or electronic mail if a signed
original is received by the Town Clerk no later than three (3) business days
thereafter.
   F.   Initial Review:
      1.   The Town Clerk will review the complaint to determine:
         a.   Whether the complaint was timely filed; and
         b.   Whether the complainant has specifically identified one or more
violations of Article XXVIII of the Colorado Constitution or the Fair Campaign
Practices Act (C.R.S.1-45-101, et seq) or any rules adopted and promulgated by
the Town Clerk.
      2.   Within ten (10) business days of receiving the complaint, the Town
Clerk must take one (1) or more of the following actions:
         a.   If the Town Clerk determines that the complaint was not timely
filed, or has not specifically identified one (1) or more violations of Article
XXVIII of the Colorado Constitution or the Fair Campaign Practices Act
(C.R.S.1-45-101 et seq,), the Town Clerk will dismiss the complaint and notify
the complainant and respondent of the reasons for dismissal. The Town Clerk's
dismissal is a final decision, and subject to review under Rule 106, C.R.C.P.
         b.   If the Town Clerk determines that the complaint alleges one (1)
or more curable violations as described in subsection (G), the Town Clerk will
notify the respondent(s) and provide an opportunity to cure as described in
subsection (G).
         c.   If the Town Clerk determines that the complaint alleges (1) one
or more violations and that the asserted violations may not be curable as
described in subsection (G), the Town Clerk will take the actions set forth in
subsection (H).
   G.   Curing Violations:
      1.   Upon the Town Clerk's determination that a complaint alleges a
failure to file or otherwise disclose required information, or other curable
violation of an obligation under Article XXVIII of the Colorado Constitution or
the Fair Campaign Practices Act (C.R.S. 1-45-101 et seq.), the Town Clerk will
notify the respondent(s) by email, or by United States Mail if email is
unavailable, of the curable deficiencies alleged in the complaint.
      2.   Respondents shall have ten (10) business days from the date the
notice is mailed to file an amendment to the relevant report or reports that
cures any deficiencies specified in the notice.
      3.   After the period for cure, the Town Clerk will determine, within
five (5) business days, whether the respondent(s) cured the violation(s).
         a.   If the Clerk determines that respondent cured the violations, the
Clerk shall dismiss the complaint and notify complainant and respondent of such
dismissal.
         b.   If the Clerk determines that respondent failed to cure the
violation, the Clerk shall notify respondent of such determination, together
with the fine or other penalty imposed.
         c.   The respondent shall have ten (10) business days from the date of
the Clerk's notice of determination to either pay the fine and accept any
penalty imposed or contest the violation by submitting to the Clerk a request
for a hearing.
   H.   Upon receipt of a request for a hearing under subsection (G)(3)c., or
upon the Clerk's determination that the complaint falls under subsection (F)
(2)c., the Town Clerk shall notify the Town Manager of the complaint, and the
Town Manager, in consultation with the Town Clerk and the Town Attorney, shall
refer the complaint to an independent hearing officer to hear and determine
such complaint.
   I.   An informal hearing shall be scheduled as soon as practicable with due
regard for the convenience and necessity of the parties but, unless an
enlargement of time is granted as set forth in subsection (K), the hearing
shall be held within fifteen (15) calendar days of referral of the complaint to
the hearing officer.
   J.   Notice of the hearing and any applicable rules governing the hearing
process shall be sent to the complainant and to the respondent(s), who shall
also receive a copy of the entire complaint received by the Town Clerk, within
two (2) business days of the date of referral of the complete complaint to the
hearing officer and may be delivered by electronic mail, or by United States
Mail if email is unavailable to the address of the complainant shown on the
complaint form and to the respondent(s).
   K.   Upon written motion, the hearing officer may grant the subject of the
complaint a continuance of the hearing of up to thirty (30) calendar days upon
a showing of good cause.
   L.   Upon the request of either party, the hearing officer may issue an
administrative subpoena requiring the attendance of a witness or party in
relation to an alleged campaign finance violation, which shall be served on the
party to whom it is directed by the requesting party pursuant to Rule 4 of the
Colorado Rules of Civil Procedure. It shall be unlawful for a witness or party
to fail to comply with such subpoena, and any person convicted of a violation
hereof shall be punished in accordance with section 1-5 of the Code, provided,
however, that the Municipal Judge shall not have authority to impose any form
of imprisonment for the same.
   M.   The hearing shall be electronically audibly recorded and held in
substantial accordance with the provisions of section 24-4-105, C.R.S., or such
other rules as the Town Clerk may have promulgated. The hearing may be held
virtually, in the discretion of the hearing officer. At the hearing, the
complainant and the respondent(s) shall be present and, in accordance with
section 24-4-105(7), C.R.S., the complainant shall have the burden of proof in
similar manner as the proponent of an order.
   N.   Following hearing, the hearing officer shall issue a decision within
seven (7) business days. The decision may be issued orally at the conclusion of
the hearing or may be issued in writing, at the discretion of the hearing
officer.
   O.   If the hearing officer determines after a hearing that a violation has
occurred, the hearing officer's decision shall include any appropriate order,
sanction or relief authorized hereunder and may include, without limitation,
sanctions as follows:
      1.   Impose a civil penalty of at least double and up to five (5) times
the amount contributed, received or spent in violation of any contribution
prohibition or limitation or in violation of a contribution reporting
requirement.
      2.   Impose a civil penalty of twenty-five dollars ($25.00) per day for
each day that a statement or other information required to be filed pursuant to
Article XXVIII of the Colorado Constitution or the Fair Campaign Practices act
(section 1-45-101, et seq., C.R.S.), as amended by this Code, is not filed by
the close of business on the day due.
      3.   Order disclosure of the source and amount of any undisclosed
contributions or expenditures.
      4.   Order the return to the donor of any contribution made which was the
subject of the violation.
   P.   The hearing officer's determination under subsections (O) and (P) is a
final decision subject to review under Rule 106, C.R.C.P.
   Q.   Candidates shall be personally liable for penalties imposed upon the
candidate's committee.
   R.   Civil penalties may be collected in the similar manner as a municipal
court judgment under this Code, including the use of a private collection
agency.
   S.   In no event shall the town take any action, including referring the
penalty debt to a collection agency as contemplated by subsection (R), but not
including action of the collection agency, to collect civil penalties assessed
hereunder after the date that is more than one (1) year from the date that the
filing was due.
   T.   A party in any action brought pursuant to this section shall be
entitled to recovery of the party's reasonable attorney fees and costs from any
attorney or party who has brought or defended the action, either in whole or in
part, if the hearing officer finds any of the following:
      1.   The action, or any part thereof, lacked substantial justification;
      2.   The action, or any part thereof, was interposed for delay or
harassment; or
      3.   That an attorney or party unnecessarily expanded the proceeding by
other improper conduct, including but not limited to abuses of discovery
procedures authorized by this section.
Notwithstanding any other provision of this subsection, no attorney fees shall
be awarded unless the hearing officer has first considered the provisions of
sections 13-17-102(5) and (6), C.R.S. as used herein, lacked substantial
justification means substantially frivolous, substantially groundless or
substantially vexatious. (Ord. 499, 10-20-2020)
CHAPTER 10
POLICE DEPARTMENT
SECTION:
1-10-1: Department Created
1-10-2: Purpose
1-10-3: Chief Of Police; Appointment, Powers And Duties
1-10-4: Duties Of Police Officers
1-10-5: Oath
1-10-6: Departmental Rules And Regulations; Duties
1-10-7: Employment Process; Vacancy, Hiring Procedure
1-10-8: Uniforms
1-10-1: DEPARTMENT CREATED:
There is hereby created a Police Department for the Town which shall consist of
a Chief of Police, and as many policemen as may from time to time be deemed
necessary for the safety and good order of the Town. (Ord. 367, 7-21-2009)
1-10-2: PURPOSE:
The purpose of the Police Department shall be to ensure the public safety,
provide for law enforcement and the rendering of emergency aid. In carrying out
this purpose, the department and its members shall at all times be courteous
and in a posture of rendering a service to the public safety and welfare. (Ord.
367, 7-21-2009)
1-10-3: CHIEF OF POLICE; APPOINTMENT, POWERS AND DUTIES:
   A.   The Town Administrator shall appoint a Chief of Police who shall be the
head of the Police Department. It shall be the duty of the Chief of Police to:
      1.   See that the ordinances of the Town and the laws of the State are
duly enforced and the rules and regulations of the Police Department obeyed,
and perform such duties as may be required by the Town Administrator.
      2.   Direct the operations of the Police Department, subject to the rules
and regulations thereof and ordinances of the Town.
      3.   Make arrests, issue summons, summons and complaint, or penalty
assessment where appropriate to any person violating any of the Town ordinances
or State ordinances, and take such violator before the Municipal Court for
trial.
      4.   Render such account of the Police Department, his or her duties and
receipts and expenditures as may be required by the Town Administrator, and
keep the records of his or her office open to inspection by the Town
Administrator at any time. (Ord. 446, 9-19-2017)
   B.   Before entering upon the duties of such office, the Chief of Police
shall take and subscribe to an oath that he or she will support the
constitution and laws of the State, the Constitution of the United States and
ordinances of the Town, and that he or she will faithfully perform the duties
of the office upon which he or she is about to enter. (Ord. 367, 7-21-2009)
1-10-4: DUTIES OF POLICE OFFICERS:
All uniformed members of the Police Department shall have power and duties as
follows:
   A.   They shall perform all duties required by the Chief of Police.
   B.   They shall suppress all riots, disturbances and breaches of the peace
and apprehend all disorderly persons in the Town, and shall pursue and arrest
any person fleeing from justice in any part of the State.
   C.   They shall be the enforcement officers of the Town and shall see that
the ordinances of the Town and the laws of the State are complied with. They
shall issue summons, summons and complaints, or penalty assessment where
appropriate. They may arrest without process all persons engaged in the
violation in their presence of any provision of the ordinances of the Town or
the laws of the State.
   D.   They shall execute and return all writs and process to them directed by
the Municipal Judge in any case arising under a Town ordinance, and they may
serve the same in any part of the County. (Ord. 367, 7-21-2009)
1-10-5: OATH:
Before entering upon the duties of such office, each police officer shall take
and subscribe an oath and he will support the Constitution and laws of the
State of Colorado, the Constitution of the United States and the ordinances of
the Town. Such police officer will faithfully perform the duties of the office
upon which he is about to enter. (Ord. 367, 7-21-2009)
1-10-6: DEPARTMENTAL RULES AND REGULATIONS; DUTIES:
The Police Department shall be operated and managed in accordance with such
departmental rules and regulations as may from time to time be prepared by the
Police Chief and approved by the Town Administrator. The Town Administrator may
establish specific duties for the Police Chief and police officers through the
adoption of job descriptions or similar documents. (Ord. 446, 9-19-2017)
1-10-7: EMPLOYMENT PROCESS; VACANCY, HIRING PROCEDURE:
In the event that a vacancy exists in the Police Department and a Police Chief
or police officer must be hired, the recruitment and hiring procedure shall be
in accordance with the personnel policies of the Town of Morrison. (Ord. 367,
7-21-2009)
1-10-8: UNIFORMS:
Every police officer, except as otherwise authorized by the Police Chief,
should wear at all times while on duty, a uniform of the type and quality
prescribed by the Police Chief of the Town. (Ord. 367, 7-21-2009)
CHAPTER 11
FEES, RATES AND CHARGES
SECTION:
1-11-1: Charges For Applications, Petitions And Requests For Service
1-11-2: Collection Of Fees, Rates And Charges; Certification To County
Treasurer
1-11-1: CHARGES FOR APPLICATIONS, PETITIONS AND REQUESTS FOR SERVICE:
   A.   Authority Granted: The board of trustees shall have the authority to
impose, and to modify from time to time, by resolution, all fees or charges for
applications, petitions or requests for services, actions, permits, reviews or
approvals, which the town is authorized under any statute, ordinance,
regulation or other law to impose.
   B.   Repeal Of Existing Charges: To the extent that any ordinance of the
town provides for a fee of a specific amount to be charged for any application,
petition or request for service, action, review, permit or approval by the
town, such reference to a specific fee is hereby repealed.
   C.   Indeterminate Fees Allowed: In establishing appropriate fees or
charges, the board of trustees is authorized to provide that a fee shall be a
minimum fee plus the actual, reasonable costs, fees and expenses incurred in
the specific action. (Ord. 214, 3-21-1989)
   D.   Town Administrator Responsible For Determining Charges: The board of
trustees is authorized to delegate to the town administrator the authority to
estimate the actual, reasonable costs, fees and expenses which will be incurred
by the town in reviewing or processing any application, petition, request or
permit and to require a deposit of this amount, or any portion thereof, as a
condition of acceptance of such application, petition, request or permit by the
town. (Ord. 214, 3-21-1989; amd. Ord. 420, 6-2-2015)
1-11-2: COLLECTION OF FEES, RATES AND CHARGES; CERTIFICATION TO COUNTY
TREASURER:
   A.   Until paid in full, all fees, rates and charges imposed for any town
service or function shall constitute a first and perpetual lien on and against
the lot, land, building and/or property served or benefited by said service,
and in the event the same are not paid when due, the town may certify the same
to the county treasurer to be collected in the same manner as taxes, together
with the costs of collection, as permitted by Colorado Revised Statutes 31-20-
105 and 106.
   B.   The imposition or certification of a lien as provided in this section
shall not relieve a customer, user or property owner from liability for the
payment of a fee or charge for any town service, and the town may seek and
obtain the collection of the same through an action at law, filing of a lien
with the county clerk and recorder, or any other appropriate legal proceeding.
(Ord. 432, 5-3-2016)
CHAPTER 12
COMMEMORATION PROGRAM
(Rep. by Ord. 403, 6-4-2013)
CHAPTER 13
TOWN TREASURER
(Rep. by Ord. 441, 2-7-2017)
CHAPTER 14
EDUCATIONAL ASSISTANCE PROGRAM
SECTION:
1-14-1: Program Established
1-14-2: Program Purposes
1-14-3: Eligibility
1-14-4: Covered Expenses
1-14-5: Applications For Approval And For Reimbursement
1-14-6: Program Termination
1-14-1: PROGRAM ESTABLISHED:
The Board of Trustees hereby establishes the Town of Morrison employee
educational assistance program as set forth more fully in this chapter. (Ord.
388, 12-6-2011)
1-14-2: PROGRAM PURPOSES:
The purposes of the Town of Morrison employee educational assistance program
are to assist full time employees of the Town of Morrison in their professional
development by enhancing and improving skills required for their current
position, assist employees in advancing their careers by encouraging voluntary
academic studies that contribute to improved performance, to assist employees
in qualifying for promotion and advancement and to enable the Town of Morrison
to establish and retain a work force willing and able to meet future
challenges. (Ord. 388, 12-6-2011)
1-14-3: ELIGIBILITY:
The following requirements apply in order to be eligible for reimbursement of
expenses through the educational assistance program:
   A.   An employee must have one year continuous service with the Town of
Morrison before seeking approval for a course registration. (Ord. 388, 12-6-
2011)
   B.   The classes must be approved by the Town Manager. In the event the
class is to be taken by the Town Manager, it must be approved by the Mayor.
(Ord. 474, 6-4-2019)
   C.   The course or courses must be through an accredited college, university
or vocational program.
   D.   The Town will reimburse one hundred percent (100%) of the course
expense if the employee attains a C grade or its equivalent, and will provide
no reimbursement for less than a C grade or its equivalent.
   E.   Reimbursement is limited to five thousand two hundred fifty dollars
($5,250.00) per year for qualified educational programs, or such lesser amounts
as may be established under section 127 of the Internal Revenue Code as
eligible for tax free reimbursement.
   F.   An employee must be continuously employed by the Town during the course
of instruction and must be employed by the Town at the time of completion of
the course to be eligible for reimbursement. (Ord. 388, 12-6-2011)
1-14-4: COVERED EXPENSES:
This plan reimburses costs for tuition, fees and books. The plan does not
reimburse costs for tools, usable after course completion, for example a
calculator, supplies, meals, lodging or transportation or for any education
that involves sports, games or hobbies. (Ord. 388, 12-6-2011)
1-14-5: APPLICATIONS FOR APPROVAL AND FOR REIMBURSEMENT:
   A.   Employees must obtain approval for educational expense reimbursement
under this policy through application to their department head prior to
reimbursement for the course.
   B.   Upon completion of the approved course, the employee must submit a
request for educational expenses reimbursement with the proof of grades and
payment of educational expenses.
   C.   Commitment of two (2) years of employment with the Town of Morrison
will be required from date of reimbursement. If employee wilfully leaves prior
to completing the two (2) year commitment, reimbursement to the Town will be
required. (Ord. 388, 12-6-2011)
1-14-6: PROGRAM TERMINATION:
The Board of Trustees reserve the right to temporarily or permanently modify,
suspend, or terminate the educational assistance program, remaining, however,
obligated for any previously approved courses. (Ord. 388, 12-6-2011)
CHAPTER 15
TOWN DEPARTMENTS
SECTION:
1-15-1: Departments Created
1-15-1: DEPARTMENTS CREATED:
There are hereby created the following departments for the Town of Morrison, in
addition to the Municipal Court, created in chapter 8 of this title, and the
Police Department, created in chapter 10 of this title:
   A.   Public Works. The duties and responsibilities of the Public Works
Department shall include all issues pertaining to water, sewer, and streets,
grounds and buildings;
   B.   Administration; and
   C.   Morrison Natural History Museum. (Ord. 442, 3-21-2017)
TITLE 2
[RESERVED]
TITLE 3
BUSINESS LICENSES AND REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
BUSINESS LICENSES GENERALLY
SECTION:
3-1-1: License Required; Exemptions
3-1-2: Application Of Provisions
3-1-3: Application Contents
3-1-4: Requirements
3-1-5: Term Of License
3-1-6: Separate License And Transferability
3-1-7: Renewal Of Licenses
3-1-8: Manager's Responsibility
3-1-9: Short Term And Special Events Licenses; Permits
3-1-10: Mobile Vending
3-1-11: Schedule Of Fees
3-1-12: Suspension, Revocation Or Nonrenewal
3-1-13: Canvassing And Soliciting
3-1-14: Penalty
3-1-1: LICENSE REQUIRED; EXEMPTIONS:
It shall be unlawful for any person to carry on or engage in any business,
profession or occupation within the Town limits, subject to any law of the
State of Colorado now in force or hereafter to be enacted, which business,
profession or occupation shall consist of the selling of goods, wares,
merchandise or the performing or rendering of service for charge, without first
having obtained a license therefor from the Town. The following specific
activities shall be exempt from the provisions of this chapter:
   A.   The renting of real property by the owner thereof, except that daily or
short term rentals shall not be exempt;
   B.   The sale of products, goods, wares or merchandise at a location outside
the Town of Morrison and delivery inside the Town of Morrison;
   C.   An activity solely involving the delivery of products, goods, wares or
merchandise from outside the Town of Morrison within the Town of Morrison or
incidental or minor activity involving installation of these products, goods,
wares or merchandise;
   D.   Part time service of a casual or minor nature not otherwise requiring
licensing or permitting, for example, without limitation, lawn care, baby
sitting, newspaper delivery, not grossing more than two thousand five hundred
dollars ($2,500.00) per year;
   E.   Contractors involved in short term building or related activities
within the Town, having no permanent or temporary offices within the Town, when
required permits are issued in the name of the owner, the owner is responsible
for payment of Use Taxes and no special utility connections are required;
   F.   A business, profession or occupation meeting the definition of "home
occupation" in section
10-1B-2 of this Code, and the standards for a home occupation in section
10-1G-4 of this Code, and involving no client or customer travel to the home or
the delivery to or shipment from the home of products, goods, wares or
merchandise. (Ord. 311, 4-17-2001)
3-1-2: APPLICATION OF PROVISIONS:
The licensing provisions of this chapter shall apply only to the owners or
operators of said business except as otherwise provided, and employees of the
owners or operators of said business are not required to be licensed. The Town
Administrator shall have authority to determine whether or not a particular
person is an employee or an operator or owner of such a business. (Ord. 476, 6-
4-2019)
3-1-3: APPLICATION CONTENTS:
License applications shall be made to the Town Clerk on forms provided by the
Clerk. Such application shall state the name of the applicant, the street
address of the business, the kind or nature of business, profession or
occupation to be engaged in and such other information as may be required by
the Board of Trustees from time to time. All applications must be accompanied
by the appropriate fee as provided in section
 3-1-11 of this chapter or as changed from time to time. (Ord. 191, 8-19-1986)
3-1-4: REQUIREMENTS:
No license shall be issued until the following areas have been considered in
accordance with applicable directives of the Board of Trustees:
   A.   Physical condition and right to use of the premises where the business
is to be conducted;
   B.   Zoning;
   C.   Proper utility connections;
   D.   Compliance with health and sanitation requirements;
   E.   Other factors deemed necessary for the protection of the public health,
safety and welfare. (Ord. 476, 6-4-2019)
3-1-5: TERM OF LICENSE:
Except as otherwise provided, all licenses shall expire one year following the
issuance of such license and no rebate or credit shall be allowed for licenses
issued or used for a portion of a year only. (Ord. 191, 8-19-1986)
3-1-6: SEPARATE LICENSE AND TRANSFERABILITY:
A separate license shall be required for each separate establishment or place
of business. All licenses shall be transferable as to place, subject to the
provisions of section
3-1-4 of this chapter, upon approval of the Town Administrator or the Town
Zoning Administrator. No license shall be transferable as to person, firm or
corporation. No person, firm or corporation shall operate or carry on a
business, profession or occupation under the license of another and no licensee
shall allow any other person, firm or corporation to operate under his or its
license. (Ord. 191, 8-19-1986; amd. Ord. 420, 6-2-2015)
3-1-7: RENEWAL OF LICENSES:
Licenses may be renewed by paying the applicable license fees within fifteen
(15) days prior to the expiration. A license not renewed prior to expiration
shall be processed as a new license application. (Ord. 191, 8-19-1986)
3-1-8: MANAGER'S RESPONSIBILITY:
The duties hereby imposed upon the owner or operator of a business shall also
be the responsibility of the manager or person actually in charge of such
business and such person shall, upon failure to apply for such license or
otherwise, obey the provisions of this chapter, be in violation of this chapter
and subject to the penalties herein provided. (Ord. 191, 8-19-1986)
3-1-9: SHORT TERM AND SPECIAL EVENTS LICENSES; PERMITS:
   A.   Short Term (1 Week) License: In addition to the licenses for a term of
one year, there shall be a license for the conduct of a business within the
Town for a term of one week or less. Such license, including the application
therefor, shall all be in accordance with the terms of this chapter. (Ord. 215,
9-6-1989)
   B.   Special Events License: There shall be a special events license. Such
license shall be available for festivals, trade shows, craft or other fairs,
bazaars and other activities of a similar nature. The fee for such license
shall be determined as follows: (Ord. 476, 6-4-2019)
      1.   If the individual or organization promoting the event is responsible
for the collection, reporting and payment of applicable Sales Tax, a single
special event license may issue for all vendors of goods, not including
alcoholic or fermented malt beverages. The fee for such license shall be in the
amount of twenty five percent (25%) of the short term license fee per vendor
per day of the event.
      2.   If each vendor of goods, not including alcoholic or fermented malt
beverages, is to collect, report and pay the Sales Tax applicable to his sales,
each such vendor shall obtain a license and the fee for such license shall be
twenty five percent (25%) of the short term license fee per each day of the
event that such vendor is open for business.
      3.   If the sponsor of the special event is a nonprofit organization
qualified under section 501(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code, and all
proceeds of the event, above reasonable expenses, are to be given to such
organization or a similarly qualified organization, the applicable fee shall be
seventy five percent (75%) of the fees determined under subsections B1 and B2
of this section. (Ord. 215, 9-6-1989)
   C.   Referral To Board Of Trustees: The Town Manager, in his or her sole
discretion may, with or without a recommendation, refer any short term or
special event license application to the Board of Trustees for decision. (Ord.
476, 6-4-2019)
   D.   Special Event Permits:
      1.   Authority: The Morrison liquor and fermented malt beverage licensing
authority is hereby authorized to approve an application for a special event
permit for an event within the Town of Morrison without notification or
referral to the State licensing authority for its approval or disapproval.
(Ord. 383, 7-19-2011, eff. 8-11-2011; amd. Ord. 476, 6-4-2019)
      2.   Notification To State Licensing Authority: In accordance with
section 44-5-107(5)(a), Colorado Revised Statutes, the Town Manager or their
designee shall report to the Liquor Enforcement Division within ten (10) days
after a special event permit is approved, the name of the organization to whom
a permit was issued, the address of the permitted location and the permitted
dates of alcohol beverage service. (Ord. 476, 6-4-2019)
      3.   Applicable Law: In acting upon an application for a special event
permit, the Morrison liquor and fermented malt beverage licensing authority
shall comply with section 12-48-101 et seq., Colorado Revised Statutes, and
Colorado Code of Regulations 1 CCR 203-2, regulations 47-1000 through 47-1020,
as such statutes and regulations may be amended from time to time. (Ord. 383,
7-19-2011, eff. 8-11-2011; amd. Ord. 476, 6-4-2019)
3-1-10: MOBILE VENDING:
Every person whose business, profession or occupation consists of the sale or
solicitation of orders for the sale of goods, wares or merchandise, door to
door, or street to street, or who sells or solicits orders for sale from a
wagon, automotive vehicle, or other vehicle or conveyance, movable from place
to place, is required to make application for a license, give bond as required
to make application for a license, give bond as provided below, and secure a
license in his or her own name before engaging in such activity in the Town.
   A.   Transferability: Such license shall not be transferable. Any license
issued to a firm, association, company or corporation shall state the name of
the authorized representatives, which names shall appear on the license.
   B.   Bond Required: There shall be filed with the Town, prior to issuance of
a license under this section, a bond payable to the Town in the sum of five
hundred dollars ($500.00), executed by the applicant as principal with at least
one surety upon which service of process may be made in the State of Colorado.
Such bond shall provide that it may be applied to any obligation the applicant
may incur to the Town by virtue of its failure to comply with applicable laws
and ordinances, including, but not limited to, Sales and Use Tax requirements.
Liability shall not be limited to the amount of the bond.
   C.   Application Requirements: In addition to the information required of an
applicant under section
3-1-3 of this chapter, an applicant for a mobile vending license shall furnish
the following information:
      1.   A brief description of the nature of the business and the goods to
be sold, solicited or delivered;
      2.   The length of time during which the activity will be conducted;
      3.   A description, including license number, if applicable, of any
vehicle to be used in the conduct of the activity. (Ord. 191, 8-19-1986)
3-1-11: SCHEDULE OF FEES:
The Board of Trustees may from time to time establish and amend fees by
resolution. (Ord. 191, 8-19-1986; amd. Res. 89-4, 5-16-1989)
3-1-12: SUSPENSION, REVOCATION OR NONRENEWAL:
   A.   Authority; Conditions: In addition to powers granted under other
ordinances of the Town, the Town Board may suspend, revoke or refuse to grant
the renewal of a license or permit issued under this chapter if:
      1.   The licensee fails to meet the qualifications required of an
applicant;
      2.   The licensee violates any provision of any ordinance of the Town,
any County regulation or any State Statute relating to the operation of the
business, profession or occupation;
      3.   The licensee obtained the license by fraud or misrepresentation;
      4.   The licensee is finally convicted of an offense and there would be a
danger to the public health, safety and welfare if the licensee were to engage
in such conduct in the licensed business; or
      5.   Applicable fees and taxes are not paid when due.
   B.   Determination Of Action: If the Town Board finds one of the grounds in
subsection A of this section or any other ground for suspension or revocation,
the Town Board shall determine whether to revoke the license for the remainder
of its term, to suspend it for any shorter period, or not to allow the renewal,
according to the severity of the disqualification, its effect on public health,
safety and welfare, and the time during which the disqualification can be
remedied, if at all. The Board may also direct that action be taken on the bond
provided for in subsection
3-1-10B of this chapter at this time.
   C.   Temporary Suspension: Before the hearing required by subsection D of
this section, the Town Board may suspend a license for up to thirty (30) days
if the Town Board determines that the suspension is necessary for the immediate
protection of the public health, safety and welfare. The Town Board may
include, in the temporary suspension, reasonable orders or conditions with
which the licensee shall comply to protect the public health, safety and
welfare. Any breach of such conditions or orders is an independent ground for
suspension or revocation of the license. Upon request of the licensee, a
hearing on a summary suspension shall be scheduled by the Town Board within
twenty one (21) days.
   D.   Hearing: Except for such emergency suspension authorized by subsection
C of this section, no such suspension, revocation or nonrenewal is final until
the licensee has been given the opportunity for a hearing before the Town Board
to contest the suspension, revocation or nonrenewal.
   E.   Orders Or Conditions: If, after a hearing, the suspension, revocation
or nonrenewal is upheld, the Town Board may include reasonable orders or
conditions with which the person whose license has been suspended, revoked or
nonrenewed shall comply to protect any work in progress and the public health,
safety and welfare.
   F.   Refund Disallowed: No person, firm or corporation whose license is
revoked under this chapter may receive a refund of any part of the license fee
paid for the license.
   G.   Obtaining License Prohibited: No person, firm or corporation who has
had a license suspended, revoked or nonrenewed under this chapter is entitled
to obtain the same or any similar license under this chapter during the period
of suspension or revocation, either in the person's, firm's or corporation's
own name or as a principal in another business that applies for a license.
(Ord. 191, 8-19-1986)
3-1-13: CANVASSING AND SOLICITING:
Any individual or organization whose intended activity is not governed by the
foregoing provisions but includes door to door canvassing or soliciting of
contributions or pledges for contributions shall register with the Town Clerk
prior to engaging in such activity providing such identifying information as
may be required. (Ord. 191, 8-19-1986)
3-1-14: PENALTY:
Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall, upon
conviction, be subject to penalty as provided in section
 1-4-1 of this Code for each offense. Each twenty four (24) hours during which
said violation shall continue shall constitute a separate offense. (Ord. 191,
8-19-1986; amd. Ord. 261, 4-16-1996)
CHAPTER 2
SALES TAX
SECTION:
3-2-1: Purpose
3-2-2: Definitions
3-2-3: Property And Services Taxed
3-2-4: Exemptions
3-2-5: Amount Of Tax And Schedule
3-2-6: General Provisions
3-2-7: Credit For Previously Paid Taxes
3-2-8: Collection, Administration And Enforcement
3-2-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this Chapter is to impose a sales tax upon the sale at retail of
tangible personal property and the furnishing of certain services in the Town
pursuant to the authority granted to incorporated towns of the State by
Colorado Revised Statutes 29-2-101 et seq., as amended. This Chapter shall be
so construed and interpreted as to effectuate the general purpose of making it
uniform with the sales tax of the State of Colorado, levied by Colorado Revised
Statutes 39-26-101 et seq., as amended. (Ord. 188, 12-30-1985, eff. 1-1-1986)
3-2-2: DEFINITIONS:
For purposes of this Chapter, the definition of words herein contained shall be
as said words are defined in Colorado Revised Statutes 39-26-102, as amended,
and said definitions are incorporated herein by this reference. (Ord. 188, 12-
30-1985, eff. 1-1-1986)
3-2-3: PROPERTY AND SERVICES TAXED:
   A.   A sales tax is hereby levied and shall be collected and paid in the
amount as in this Chapter provided, upon the sale at retail of tangible
personal property and the furnishing of certain services, as provided in The
Emergency Retail Sales Tax Act of 1935, set forth in Colorado Revised Statutes
39-26-101 et seq., as amended, which provisions are incorporated herein this
reference.
   B.   The amount subject to tax shall not include the amount of any sales or
use tax imposed by Colorado Revised Statutes 39-26-101 et seq., as amended.
   C.   The gross receipts from sales shall include delivery charges, when such
charges are subject to the State sales and use tax imposed by article 26 of
title 39, Colorado Revised Statutes, 39-26-101 et seq., as amended, regardless
of the place to which delivery is made.
   D.   A tax is hereby levied and shall be collected and paid in the amount
provided by subsection 3-2-5D on the purchase price paid or charged for the
sale of retail marijuana and retail marijuana products. (Ord. 188, 12-30-1985,
eff. 1-1-1986; amd. Ord. 513, 6-21-2022)
3-2-4: EXEMPTIONS:
   A.   All the tangible personal property and services which are exempt under
the provisions of The Emergency Retail Sales Tax Act of 1935, as set forth in
Colorado Revised Statutes 39-26-101 et seq., as amended, which exemptions are
incorporated herein by this reference, shall be exempt from taxation under the
provisions of this Chapter; except the exemption allowed by Colorado Revised
Statutes 39-26-114 (11), as amended, for purchases of machinery or machine
tools, and except the exemption of sales and purchases of electricity, coal,
gas, fuel oil and coke as provided in Colorado Revised Statutes 39-26-114 (1)
(a)(XXI), as amended, and the exemption for sales of food specified in Colorado
Revised Statutes 39-26-114 (1)(a)(XX), as amended.
   B.   All sales of tangible personal property on which a specific ownership
tax has been paid or is payable shall be exempt from sales tax when such sales
meet both of the following conditions:
      1.   The purchaser is a nonresident of or has its principal place of
business outside of the Town, and
      2.   Such tangible personal property is registered or required to be
registered outside the limits of the Town under the laws of the State.
   C.   For transactions consummated on or after January 1, 1986, the Town's
sales tax shall not apply to the sale of construction and building materials,
as the term is used in Colorado Revised Statutes 29-2-109, as amended, if such
materials are picked up by the purchaser and if the purchaser of such materials
presents to the retailer a building permit or other documentation acceptable to
the town evidencing that a local use tax has been paid or is required to be
paid.
   D.   The sale of medical and retail marijuana and medical and retail
marijuana products shall be exempt from the three and three-fourths percent
(3.75%) sales tax imposed upon all sales of tangible personal property and the
furnishing of certain services, as specified in Section
3-2-5 of this Chapter.
(Ord. 188, 12-30-1985, eff. 1-1-1986; amd. Ord. 554, 5-20-2025)
3-2-5: AMOUNT OF TAX AND SCHEDULE:
   A.   On and after January 1, 2011, there is imposed upon all sales of
tangible personal property and the furnishing of certain services, as specified
in section
3-2-3 of this chapter, a three and three-fourths percent (3.75%) sales tax upon
the sale at retail of tangible personal property and the furnishing of certain
services as provided herein.
   B.   The imposition of the tax on the sale at retail of tangible personal
property and the furnishing of certain services subject to this tax shall be in
accordance with schedules set forth in the rules and regulations of the
department of revenue of the state of Colorado.
   C.   The revenues from such additional three-fourths percent (0.75%) tax
shall be used for capital projects and improvements in the town including,
without limitation, in the utilities, road and streets, drainage, parking and
public buildings, unless otherwise approved by at least two-thirds (2/3) of the
then elected board of trustees. There is a mayor and six (6) trustees on the
board. Thus, at least five (5) affirmative votes are required to use any part
of the additional revenues for other than capital improvements or projects if
there is a full board.
   D.   On and after January 1, 2023, there is imposed upon the purchase price
paid or charged for the sale of retail marijuana and retail marijuana products,
a sales tax of 11.25% on the purchase price paid, with the rate of the tax
being allowed to be increased or decreased by the Board of Trustees without
further voter approval so long as the rate of the tax does not exceed 11.25%,
and with the resulting tax revenue, including any interest and investment
income therefrom, being allowed to be collected and spent by the Town for any
lawful municipal purpose, including without limitation capital improvements,
economic development and public safety, without regard to any expenditure,
revenue raising, or other limitation contained in Article X, Section 20 of the
Colorado Constitution or any other law, all as approved by the registered
electors of the Town at the April 5, 2022 regular town election. (Ord. 188, 12-
30-1985, eff. 1-1-1986; amd. Ord. 375, 11-16-2010; Ord. 376, 12-7-2010; Ord.
513, 6-21-2022; Ord. 518, 10-18-2022)
3-2-6: GENERAL PROVISIONS:
   A.   For the purpose of this chapter, all retail sales are consummated at
the place of business of the retailer, unless the tangible personal property
sold is delivered by the retailer or his agent to a destination outside the
limits of the town or to a common carrier for delivery to a destination outside
the limits of the town.
   B.   In the event a retailer has no permanent place of business in the town
or has more than one place of business, the place or places at which the retail
sales are consummated for the purpose of the sales tax imposed by this chapter
shall be determined by the provisions of Colorado Revised Statutes 39-26-101 et
seq., as amended, and by rules and regulations promulgated by the department of
revenue of the state of Colorado. (Ord. 188, 12-30-1985, eff. 1-1-1986)
3-2-7: CREDIT FOR PREVIOUSLY PAID TAXES:
For transaction consummated on or after January 1, 1986, the town's sales tax
shall not apply to the sale of tangible personal property at retail or the
furnishing of services if the transaction was previously subjected to a sales
or use tax lawfully imposed on the purchaser or user by another statutory or
home rule municipality equal to or in excess of three and three-fourths percent
(3.75%). A credit shall be granted against the sales tax with respect to such
transaction equal in amount to the lawfully imposed local sales or use tax
previously paid by the purchaser or user to the previous statutory or home rule
municipality. The amount of the credit shall not exceed three and three-fourths
percent (3.75%). (Ord. 188, 12-30-1985, eff. 1-1-1986; amd. Ord. 375, 11-16-
2010)
3-2-8: COLLECTION, ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT:
   A.   The collection, administration and enforcement of the sales tax imposed
by this chapter shall be performed by the executive director of the department
of revenue of the state of Colorado in the same manner as the collection,
administration and enforcement of the Colorado state sales tax. Accordingly,
the provisions of articles 26 and 21 of title 39 and article 2 of title 29,
Colorado Revised Statutes, as amended, and all rules and regulations
promulgated by the executive director of the department of revenue pertaining
to such collection, administration and enforcement, are incorporated herein by
this reference. (Ord. 188, 12-30-1985, eff. 1-1-1986)
   B.   At the time of making his/her return of the tax, as required by this
chapter, every retailer shall be entitled to subtract from the tax so remitted
a sum equal to three and one-third percent (31/3%) of said tax as her/his fee,
said fee to be known as the vendor's fee 1 . (Ord. 241, 6-21-1994)
   C.   If said retailer is delinquent in remitting said tax, she/he shall
forfeit the vendor's fee, unless good cause can be shown for such delinquent
remittance. (Ord. 188, 12-30-1985, eff. 1-1-1986)
 
Notes
  1. It is the intent of the board of trustees in adopting this amendment that
1 it shall be considered as if part of the ordinance 188 at the time of its
  adoption on December 30, 1985, and that no rights shall accrue to anyone as a
  result of the error.
CHAPTER 3
USE TAX
SECTION:
3-3-1: Purpose
3-3-2: Definitions
3-3-3: Application And Exemptions
3-3-4: Imposition Of Tax
3-3-5: Remittance And Reports
3-3-6: Refunds
3-3-7: Records And Accounts To Be Kept
3-3-8: Investigation Of Records
3-3-9: Hearings
3-3-10: Subpoenas
3-3-11: Audit Of Records
3-3-12: Enforcement
3-3-13: Tax A Lien
3-3-14: Sale Subject To Lien
3-3-15: Violations; Fines
3-3-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to impose a use tax upon the privilege of using,
storing, distributing or otherwise consuming tangible personal property or
taxable services inside the town. (Ord. 334, 4-18-2006)
3-3-2: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this chapter, the definition of words herein contained shall
be as said words are defined below and in Colorado Revised Statutes 39-26-102,
as amended, and said statutory definitions are incorporated herein by
reference:
   AUTOMOTIVE VEHICLE: Any vehicle or device in, upon, or by which any person
or property is or may be transported or drawn upon a public highway, and every
device used or designed for aviation or for flight in the air. Automotive
vehicle includes, without limitation, motor vehicles, trailers, or
semitrailers. Automotive vehicle does not include devices moved by human power
or used exclusively upon stationary rails or tracks.
   BUSINESS: All activities engaged in or caused to be engaged in with the
object of gain, benefit, or advantage, direct or indirect.
   CHARITABLE ORGANIZATION: Any entity which has been qualified by the United
States internal revenue service as a tax exempt organization under section 501
(c)(3) of the United States internal revenue code.
   CONSTRUCTION EQUIPMENT: Equipment used by an employer or contractor in the
erection, installation, alteration, repair, or remodeling of a building or
structure upon real estate.
   CONSTRUCTION MATERIALS: Tangible personal property which, when combined with
other tangible personal property, loses its identity to become an integral and
inseparable part of a completed structure or project. Construction materials
include, without limitation, such things as: asphalt, bricks, builders'
hardware, caulking material, cement, concrete, conduit, electric wiring and
connections, fireplace inserts, electrical heating and cooling equipment,
flooring, glass, gravel, insulation, lath, lead, lime, lumber, macadam,
millwork, motor oil, paint, piping, pipe valves and pipefittings, plaster,
plumbing fixtures, putty, reinforcing mesh, road base, roofing, sand, sanitary
sewer pipe, sheet metal, site lighting, steel, stone, stripping, wire netting
and screen, water mains and meters, and wood preserver. The above materials,
when used for forms, or other items which do not remain as an integral or
inseparable part of a completed structure or project, are not construction
materials.
   ENGAGED IN BUSINESS IN THE TOWN: Performing or providing services or
selling, leasing, renting, delivering, or installing tangible personal property
for storage, use, or consumption within the town. Engaged in business in the
town includes, without limitation, any one of the following activities:
   A.   Directly, indirectly, or through a subsidiary, maintaining a building,
store, office, salesroom, warehouse, or other place of business within the
town;
   B.   Sending one or more employees, agents, or commissioned salespersons
into the town to solicit business or to install, assemble, repair, service, or
assist in the use of its products, or for demonstration, or for any other
reason;
   C.   Maintaining one or more employees, agents, or commissioned salespersons
on duty at a location within the town;
   D.   Owning, leasing, renting, or otherwise exercising control over real or
personal property within the town; or
   E.   Making more than one delivery into the town within a twelve (12) month
period.
   PERSON: Any individual, firm, partnership, joint venture, corporation,
estate or trust, receiver, trustee, assignee, lessee, or any person acting in
fiduciary or representative capacity, whether appointed by court or otherwise,
or any group or combination acting as a unit. (Ord. 334, 4-18-2006)
3-3-3: APPLICATION AND EXEMPTIONS:
There is hereby exempted and in no event shall the use tax imposed by this
chapter extend or apply:
   A.   Double Taxation: To the storage, use, or consumption of any tangible
personal property or taxable service, the sale of which is subject to a retail
sales tax imposed by the town.
   B.   Purchased For Resale: To the storage, use, or consumption of any
tangible personal property purchased for resale in the town, either in its
original form or as an ingredient of a manufactured or compounded product, in
the regular course of business.
   C.   Personal Property Of Nonresident: To the storage, use, or consumption
of tangible personal property brought into the town by a nonresident thereof
for storage, use or consumption while temporarily within the town; however,
this exemption does not apply to the storage, use or consumption of tangible
personal property brought into this state by a nonresident to be used in the
conduct of a business in this state.
   D.   Government Entities: To the storage, use, or consumption of tangible
personal property by the United States government or the state of Colorado, or
its institutions or political subdivisions, in their governmental capacities
only, or by religious or charitable organizations in the conduct of their
regular religious or charitable functions.
   E.   Parts/Ingredients: To the storage, use, or consumption of tangible
personal property by a person engaged in the business of manufacturing or
compounding for sale, profit or use, any article, substance or commodity, which
tangible personal property enters into the processing of or becomes an
ingredient or component part of the product or service which is manufactured,
compounded or furnished or the container, label or the furnished shipping case
thereof. (Ord. 334, 4-18-2006)
   F.   Previously Paid Taxes: This use tax shall not apply to the storage, use
or consumption of any article of tangible personal property the sale or use of
which has already been subjected to a legally imposed sales or use tax of
another statutory or home rule municipality equal to or in excess of three and
three-fourths percent (3.75%). A credit shall be granted against the town's use
tax with respect to a person's storage, use or consumption in the town of
tangible personal property purchased in another statutory or home rule
municipality and a sales or use tax paid to that municipality. The amount of
the credit shall be equal to the tax paid by reason of the imposition of a
legal sales or use tax of the previous statutory or home rule municipality on
the purchase or use of the property. The amount of the credit shall not exceed
three and three-fourths percent (3.75%). (Ord. 334, 4-18-2006; amd. Ord. 375,
11-16-2010)
   G.   Property Arriving With Nonresident: To the storage, use, or consumption
of tangible personal property and household effects acquired outside of the
town and brought into it by a nonresident acquiring residency.
   H.   Nonresident's Vehicle Titled And Licensed Elsewhere: The use of a motor
vehicle in conjunction with a business located within the town, shall not be
exempt by reason of the storage of said motor vehicle outside the town. (Ord.
334, 4-18-2006)
3-3-4: IMPOSITION OF TAX:
   A.   On and after January 1, 2011, there is hereby levied and there shall be
collected and paid a use tax upon the privilege of using, storing or consuming
tangible personal property or taxable services in the town in the amount of
three and three-fourths percent (3.75%). Such tax shall be based upon the full
purchase price paid or charged for tangible personal property and taxable
services upon which a municipal sales or use tax has not been paid, such use
tax to be paid by either the vendor or the consumer. The following
supplemental, but not exclusive, rules shall apply: (Ord. 375, 11-16-2010)
      1.   A resident of the town or business with a location within the town,
shall pay a use tax under this chapter upon the purchase price paid or charged
for automotive vehicles purchased outside of the town for use or storage within
the town. No person may register an automotive vehicle for which registration
is required until such person has paid all sales or use taxes due on the
purchase of the vehicle. No person shall register a vehicle at an address other
than such person's principal residence or place of business within the town for
the purpose of evading the sales or use tax imposed by this chapter.
      2.   A use tax is due upon tangible personal property that is utilized in
the town if such use occurs within three (3) years of the most recent sale of
the property. No use tax shall be due on the use of tangible personal property
within the town that occurs more than three (3) years after the most recent
sale of the property if, within three (3) years following the date of such
sale, the property has been significantly used within the state for the
principal purpose for which it was purchased.
      3.   The purchaser of tangible personal property acquired with the
purchase of a business for use in the operation of such business shall pay a
use tax upon the purchase price of such property recorded in the bill or
contract of sale, but in no event shall the tax be based upon a valuation of
property less than its fair market value. If the purchase price of the property
is not itemized in the bill or contract of sale, the tax shall be based upon
the book value that the purchaser uses for income tax depreciation or upon the
fair market value of the property if no book value has been established.
Regardless of the method used to value the property, no deduction shall be made
on account of any outstanding liabilities acquired by the purchaser of the
business and property.
      4.   Whenever tangible personal property, including property sold in
conjunction with the sale of a business, is sold under a conditional sales
contract, lease-purchase contract, or capital lease contract, whereby the
vendor or lessor retains title as security for all or part of the purchase
price or whenever the vendor retains a chattel mortgage on such tangible
personal property to secure all or part of the purchase price, the use tax is
immediately due and payable upon the total selling price. There is no refund or
credit for either party to the transaction if the property is repossessed by
the vendor.
      5.   Construction equipment that is located within the town for a period
of more than thirty (30) consecutive calendar days shall be subjected to the
full applicable use tax of the town. (Ord. 334, 4-18-2006)
      6.   Construction equipment that is located within the town for a period
of thirty (30) consecutive days or less shall be subjected to the town's use
tax in an amount calculated as follows: The purchase price of the equipment
shall be multiplied by a fraction, the numerator of which is one and the
denominator of which is twelve (12), and the result shall be multiplied by
three and three-fourths percent (3.75%). (Ord. 334, 4-18-2006; amd. Ord. 375,
11-16-2010)
   B.   Every vendor required or permitted to collect the tax imposed by this
chapter shall collect it upon the purchase price of tangible personal property
purchased or leased outside the town and intended to be brought into the town
for use, storage, or consumption, notwithstanding the following circumstances:
      1.   The purchaser's order or the contract of sale is delivered, mailed,
or otherwise transmitted by the purchaser to the vendor at a point outside of
the town as a result of solicitation by the vendor through the medium of a
catalog or other written advertisement, by radio or television advertising, or
by any other means;
      2.   The purchaser's order or contract of sale was made or closed by
acceptance or approval outside of the town or before the tangible personal
property enters the town;
      3.   The purchaser's order or contract of sale provides that the property
shall be, or it is in fact, procured or manufactured at a point outside the
town and shipped directly to the purchaser from a point of origin; or
      4.   The property is mailed to the purchaser in the town from a point
outside the town or delivered to a carrier at a point outside the city, FOB, or
otherwise, and directed to the purchaser in the town, regardless of whether the
cost of transportation is paid by the vendor or by the purchaser. (Ord. 334, 4-
18-2006)
   C.   The revenues from such additional three-fourths percent (0.75%) tax
shall be used for capital projects and improvements in the town including,
without limitation, in the utilities, road and streets, drainage, parking and
public buildings, unless otherwise approved by at least two-thirds (2/3) of the
then elected board of trustees. There are a mayor and six (6) trustees on the
board. Thus, at least five (5) affirmative votes are required to use any part
of the additional revenues for other than capital improvements or projects if
there is a full board. (Ord. 376, 12-7-2010)
3-3-5: REMITTANCE AND REPORTS:
   A.   Every person who operates or maintains a business in the town of
Morrison, and who purchases or leases tangible personal property for use,
storage, distribution or consumption in the town in connection with the
business, which property is taxable hereunder and who has not paid the tax
imposed by this chapter to a retailer required or authorized to collect the
same, shall monthly make a return and pay the tax due to the town of Morrison,
on or before the twentieth day of each calendar month following the month in
which such purchase or lease was consummated, or such later date as is approved
by the town administrator.
   B.   Every resident of the town who purchases or leases tangible personal
property for use, storage, distribution or consumption in the town, which
property is taxable hereunder, and who has not paid the tax imposed thereon by
this chapter to a retailer required or authorized to collect the same, shall
make a return and pay the tax due to the town of Morrison within thirty (30)
days from the purchase or lease of such tangible personal property.
   C.   Every owner or lessee of real property in the town or of improvements
and structures located upon real property in the town upon which tangible
personal property acquired from sources outside the town is attached or affixed
who has not paid the tax imposed by this chapter thereon to a retailer required
or authorized to collect the same, shall make a return and pay the tax due to
the town of Morrison within thirty (30) days from the purchase or lease of such
tangible personal property. (Ord. 341, 11-21-2006)
3-3-6: REFUNDS:
   A.   Procedure:
      1.   Any person who claims that a transaction or item was not taxable or
claims an exemption as provided in this chapter may apply for a refund of the
tax paid under dispute.
      2.   An application for a refund of tax paid under dispute by a purchaser
who claims an exemption shall be made within sixty (60) days after the date of
payment of the tax to the town. Such application shall be accompanied by the
original paid invoice or sales receipt showing payment of taxes to another
jurisdiction or shall show the basis and shall be made upon forms prescribed
and furnished by the town administrator.
      3.   The burden of proving that any transaction or items are not taxable
or are exempt from the tax shall be upon the person asserting such claim.
      4.   Upon receipt of an application, the town administrator shall examine
the same with all due speed and shall give written notice to the applicant of
his or her decision thereon.
   B.   Denial And Appeal:
      1.   An appeal of a denial of a refund shall be submitted in writing to
the town administrator within twenty (20) calendar days from the date of the
denial of the refund and shall identify the amount of the refund requested and
the basis for the appeal.
      2.   An appeal of a denial of a refund may include a request for a
hearing. Hearing procedures shall be as described in section
3-3-9 of this chapter. (Ord. 341, 11-21-2006)
3-3-7: RECORDS AND ACCOUNTS TO BE KEPT:
Every person who is required to obtain a license to do business in the town as
required by this code shall keep and preserve suitable records of all sales,
purchases and leases made by such person, and such other books or accounts as
may be necessary to determine the amount of tax for the collection or payment
of which such person is liable hereunder. It is the duty of every such person
to keep and preserve all such books, invoices and other records for a period of
three (3) years following the date the taxes were due to the town. Such items
shall be open for examination in accordance with section
3-3-8 of this chapter. If the taxpayer has filed a tax return for any period
after the due date for that period, the records for the period must be
preserved for three (3) years after the date the return was filed. If the
taxpayer has not filed a tax return for any period, the records must be
preserved indefinitely. Failure to preserve all records shall be an act of
fraud against the town and shall be subject to applicable penalties as outlined
in subsection
3-3-12C and section
3-3-15 of this chapter. (Ord. 341, 11-21-2006)
3-3-8: INVESTIGATION OF RECORDS:
   A.   For the purpose of ascertaining the correctness of a return, or for the
purpose of determining the amount of tax due from any person, whether or not
licensed under this title, the town administrator may hold investigations,
including audits, and hearings concerning any matters covered by this chapter,
may examine any relevant books, papers, records or memoranda of any such person
or any officer or employee of such person, or of any person having knowledge of
the transactions involved, and may take testimony and evidence as proof of the
information. The town administrator shall have the power to administer oaths to
such persons.
   B.   The town administrator may schedule a hearing, notifying all interested
parties by regular mail at least thirty (30) days prior to the date of the
hearing. The town administrator is authorized to issue subpoenas as outlined in
section
3-3-10 of this chapter. Such hearing shall be informal and no transcript, rule
of evidence or filing of briefs shall be required; however, the taxpayer may
elect to submit a brief, in which case the town may submit a brief. The town
administrator shall hold such hearing and issue a final decision thereon within
sixty (60) days after the town's notification to the taxpayer, except the town
may extend such period if the delay in holding the hearing or issuing the
decision thereon was occasioned by the taxpayer; however, in any event, the
town administrator shall hold such hearing within ninety (90) days of notifying
the taxpayer of the hearing. The decision shall be mailed by regular mail to
the taxpayer. If a taxpayer has exhausted town remedies, the taxpayer may
dispute the decision of the town administrator either by requesting a state
hearing or by appealing the decision to the district court as provided in
section 29-2-106.1, Colorado Revised Statutes. (Ord. 341, 11-21-2006)
3-3-9: HEARINGS:
   A.   A taxpayer may request a hearing on any proposed tax imposed under this
chapter after receiving a notice of final determination, assessment, and demand
for payment or denial of a claim for refund by filing a request for hearing
within twenty (20) calendar days of the date of mailing of the notice of final
determination or refund denial. The town administrator may allow a later filing
of a hearing request if the taxpayer shows good cause for a late filing. The
request for hearing shall set forth the reasons for and amount of changes in
the notice of final determination or refund denial that the taxpayer seeks and
such other information as the town administrator may prescribe.
   B.   The town administrator shall conduct the hearing under procedures as
shall be adopted by him, except that the town administrator shall notify the
taxpayer in writing of the time and place of the hearing at least seven (7)
calendar days before it is scheduled, unless the taxpayer agrees to a shorter
time. The hearing shall be held within sixty (60) days of the date of receipt
of the request for a hearing, unless the taxpayer agrees to a later date.
   C.   The town administrator shall conduct the hearing and may administer
oaths and take testimony. The hearing officer on the appeal shall not be the
same individual who determined the tax liability.
   D.   In lieu of a request for hearing as provided in subsection A of this
section, a taxpayer may request an extension of up to twenty (20) calendar days
for seeking a hearing by filing a written request within twenty (20) calendar
days after the date of mailing of the notice of final determination or refund
denial or may file a written brief and such other documents and information as
the taxpayer wishes within twenty (20) calendar days after the date of mailing
of the notice of final determination or refund denial and request the town
administrator to reconsider the action without a hearing. If the taxpayer
requests a reconsideration of the town administrator's decision, the town
administrator shall consider the request and render a decision, after which the
taxpayer may request a hearing thereon as provided in subsection A of this
section.
   E.   The town administrator may modify or abate in full the tax, penalty,
and interest protested by the taxpayer or grant the requested refund, based on
the evidence and argument presented.
   F.   The town administrator shall send a determination notice to the
taxpayer setting forth a decision, including any amount found due or amount of
claim for refund denied and the grounds for allowing or rejecting the claim in
whole or in part. The determination notice is an assessment that is due and
payable within thirty (30) days from its date, unless the taxpayer appeals the
town administrator's decision as provided in section 29-2-106(1), Colorado
Revised Statutes.
   G.   If after twenty (20) calendar days from the date of the mailing of the
notice of final determination or refund denial, the tax has not been paid, no
request for hearing has been made, no extension has been requested, and no
request for reconsideration has been filed by the taxpayer, the notice of final
determination, assessment and demand for payment previously mailed constitutes
a final assessment of the amount of tax specified, together with interest and
penalties or a final denial of refund, except as to any amounts about which the
taxpayer has filed a protest with the town administrator. (Ord. 341, 11-21-
2006)
3-3-10: SUBPOENAS:
All subpoenas issued under the terms of this chapter may be served by any
person over the age of eighteen (18) years. The fees of witnesses for
attendance in response to a subpoena shall be the same as the fees of witnesses
before the district court, such fees to be paid when the witness is excused
from further attendance. When the witness is subpoenaed at the instance of the
town administrator, such fees shall be paid by the town. When a witness is
subpoenaed at the instance of any other party to such proceeding, the town
administrator may require that the cost of service of the subpoena, and the fee
of the witness be borne by the party at whose instance the witness is summoned.
In such case, the town administrator, in his or her discretion, may require a
deposit to cover the cost of such service and witness fees prior to issuing
such subpoenas. A subpoena issued as aforesaid shall be served in the same
manner as a subpoena issued out of a court of record. (Ord. 341, 11-21-2006)
3-3-11: AUDIT OF RECORDS:
   A.   For the purpose of ascertaining the correct amount of tax due from any
taxpayer engaged in business in the town, the town administrator may authorize
an agent to conduct an audit by examining any relevant books, accounts and
records of such person. The town administrator may authorize such an audit at
any time the town administrator has reasonable cause to believe that taxes may
be due to the town for transactions involving the taxpayer.
   B.   All of the taxpayer's books, accounts and records shall be open at any
time during regular business hours for examination by an authorized agent of
the town administrator. If any taxpayer refuses to furnish voluntarily any of
the foregoing information when requested by the town administrator or
authorized agent, the town administrator may issue a subpoena to require that
the taxpayer or the taxpayer's representative attend a hearing or produce any
such books, accounts and records for examination.
   C.   Any tax deficiency or overpayment ascertained through audit shall be
computed by one or more of the following methods or any other method as the
agent of the town administrator deems appropriate:
      1.   By identifying transactions on which the tax was not properly or
accurately collected or paid.
      2.   By identifying other irregularities in the calculation of tax due.
      3.   By estimating taxes due based on the results of testing the
taxpayer's records on a statistical or other reasonable basis.
   D.   Any charitable organization claiming exemption under the provisions of
this chapter is subject to audit in the same manner as any other person engaged
in business in the town.
   E.   The town is authorized to audit taxpayer's records for the thirty six
(36) calendar months preceding the month the taxpayer is notified that an audit
is to be conducted. The audit period may be extended by mutual agreement of the
town and the taxpayer. The ability to audit this thirty six (36) month period
shall not lapse due to the passage of time once the taxpayer has been notified
of the audit period.
   F.   If the taxpayer does not provide files in an organized format; if the
auditors must go through taxpayer files, boxes, etc., in order to obtain
records for audit; or if taxpayer fails to provide information in a timely
fashion, the town shall be entitled to charge an hourly fee for time spent
organizing, gathering, or in any way assembling taxpayer records for audit.
Such fee shall be determined by the town administrator and shall fully
reimburse the town for all of its costs and expenses in conducting such
investigation. (Ord. 341, 11-21-2006)
3-3-12: ENFORCEMENT:
   A.   Assessments, Penalties: If any person fails, neglects, or refuses to
file a return and pay the tax required by this chapter or fails to remit the
correct amount of tax; or underpays the tax on a regular basis; or underpays
the tax because of negligence or fraud, the town administrator shall make an
estimate of the tax due, based on available information, and shall add thereto
penalties, interest, and any additions to the tax. The town administrator shall
serve upon the delinquent taxpayer personally or by first class mail directed
to the last address of the taxpayer on file with the town, written notice of
such estimated taxes, penalties, and interest, constituting a notice of final
determination, assessment, and demand for payment due and payable within twenty
(20) calendar days after the date of the notice. The taxpayer may request a
hearing on the assessment as provided in section
 3-3-9 of this chapter.
   B.   Failure To File Return: The penalties assessed for failure to file
returns or pay taxes as required by this chapter shall be:
      1.   If a person neglects or fails to file a return or pay the tax on any
return required under this chapter on the date prescribed therefor, determined
including any extension of time for filing, such taxpayer is liable to pay a
penalty of ten percent (10%) plus interest on such delinquent taxes at the rate
imposed by subsection H of this section until paid. The town administrator
shall assess the penalties by serving upon the taxpayer a notice of final
determination, assessment, and demand for payment, as provided in subsection A
of this section.
   C.   Fraud: A taxpayer who fails to file a return or pay the tax on any
return required under this chapter on the date prescribed therefor, determined
with regard to any extension of time for filing, due to fraud with the intent
to evade the tax, is liable to pay a penalty of the greater of one hundred
dollars ($100.00) or one hundred percent (100%) of the deficiency plus interest
at a rate of three percent (3%) per month on the amount of the deficiency from
the date the return was due until paid. The town administrator shall assess the
penalties by serving upon the taxpayer a notice of final determination,
assessment, and demand for payment, as provided in subsection A of this
section.
   D.   Mathematical Error: If the amount of tax is understated on the
taxpayer's return because of a mathematical error on the face of the return,
the town administrator shall notify the taxpayer by notice of final
determination, assessment, and demand for payment of the amount of tax
liability exceeding that shown in the return. The taxpayer has no right of
appeal from this assessment but shall pay the tax due and assessed or file an
amended return to show the correct amount of tax due within ten (10) days from
the date of the notice.
   E.   Waiver: For good cause shown the town administrator may waive any
penalty assessed or interest imposed under this chapter.
   F.   Interest: Interest prescribed under this chapter shall be paid upon
notice and demand, shall be assessed, collected, and paid in the same manner as
the tax to which it applies, and may be assessed and collected at any time
during the period within which the tax to which the interest relates may be
assessed and collected.
   G.   Overpayment: If any portion of a tax is satisfied by credit of an
overpayment, no interest shall be imposed under this chapter on the portion of
the tax so satisfied for any period during which, if the credit had been
allowed, interest would have been allowed to the taxpayer upon the overpayment.
   H.   Interest Rate: When interest is required or permitted to be charged
under any provision of this chapter, and not otherwise provided, the rate of
interest shall be one percent (1%) a month.
   I.   Penalties Not Exclusive: The penalties provided in this section are not
exclusive. (Ord. 341, 11-21-2006)
3-3-13: TAX A LIEN:
   A.   The tax imposed by this chapter, along with all penalties and interest
pertaining thereto, is a first and prior lien upon the tangible personal
property including, without limitation, the goods, stock in trade and business
fixtures in which the taxpayer has an ownership interest, except for goods that
have been purchased in the ordinary course of business by retail purchasers,
and such lien takes priority over other liens or claims of whatsoever kind or
nature on such property.
   B.   The tax imposed by this chapter, along with all penalties and interest
pertaining thereto, is a first and prior lien on the real and personal property
of the taxpayer, and such lien takes priority.
   C.   Whenever the business or property of any taxpayer is placed in
receivership or bankruptcy or seized under distraint for nonpayment of property
taxes, or an assignment is made for the benefit of creditors, all taxes,
penalties and interest imposed by this chapter and for which the taxpayer is in
any way liable under this chapter are a prior and preferred claim against all
the property of the taxpayer. No sheriff, receiver, assignee or other officer
shall sell the property of any taxpayer subject to the provisions of this
chapter under process or order of any court without first ascertaining from the
town administrator the amount of any taxes, penalties or interest due and
payable under this chapter. If there are any such taxes, penalties or interest
due, owing or unpaid, it is the duty of such officer to first pay the amount of
the taxes, penalties or interest out of the proceeds of such sale before paying
any monies to judgment creditors or other claimants, except that the officer
may pay costs of the proceeding and other preexisting liens or claims taking
lawful precedence over the town's claim.
   D.   In the event the taxpayer discharges its debts through bankruptcy,
dissolution, reorganization or other means, the town shall be empowered to
pursue collection of the unpaid taxes from any officer, agent, trustee or other
official of the taxpayer. The town may collect the taxes due through
garnishment, liens or any other lawful methods, including, but not limited to,
enforcement actions applicable to the taxpayer.
   E.   If any tax, penalty or interest imposed by this chapter, and shown due
by returns filed by the taxpayer or by assessments made by the town as provided
in this chapter, is not paid within five (5) days after it is due, the town
administrator may issue a notice setting forth the name of the taxpayer, the
amount of the tax, penalties and interest, the date of its accrual, and the
fact that the town claims a first and prior lien therefor on the real and
personal property of the taxpayer. The notice of lien shall be made on forms
prescribed by the town administrator and verified by the town administrator and
may be filed in the office of the clerk and recorder of any county in the state
in which the taxpayer owns real or personal property, or with any person in
possession of any personal property or rights to property belonging to the
taxpayer.
   F.   The town administrator shall release any lien as shown on the records
of the county clerk and recorder as herein provided, upon payment of all taxes,
penalties and interest covered thereby, in the same manner as mortgages and
judgments are released. (Ord. 341, 11-21-2006)
3-3-14: SALE SUBJECT TO LIEN:
   A.   Any person who sells a business or stock of goods or closes a business
shall complete and file the returns required under this chapter; pay the taxes,
penalties and interest due within ten (10) days of the date on which such
person sold the business or stock of goods or closed the business; and indicate
that it is a final return, that the business is sold or closed, and the name
and address of the purchaser of business, if any.
   B.   The tax imposed by this chapter shall be a first and prior lien on the
real or personal property, goods, furniture, fixtures, furnishings, equipment,
and/or inventory owned or used by a business. This lien shall take priority
over all other claims or liens against the property. A purchaser of a business
who has acquired the real or personal property, goods, furniture, fixtures,
equipment and/or inventory of the business shall withhold sufficient funds from
the purchase money to cover the amount of taxes, penalties and interest imposed
by this chapter due and unpaid until the seller provides a receipt from the
town administrator showing that such taxes, penalties and interest have been
paid. If taxes, penalties and interest imposed by this chapter are due and
unpaid after the ten (10) day period herein provided, such purchaser of the
business is personally liable for the payment of the taxes, penalties and
interest imposed by this chapter due and unpaid to the town to the same extent
as the seller of the business. (Ord. 341, 11-21-2006)
3-3-15: VIOLATIONS; FINES:
   A.   It is unlawful for any person to file or refuse to make or file any
return required to be made or filed by this chapter or to make any false or
fraudulent return or any false or fraudulent statement in any return.
   B.   It is unlawful for any applicant for a tax refund to make a false
statement in connection with such application.
   C.   It is unlawful for any person to aid or abet another in any attempt to
evade the payment of the tax imposed by this chapter.
   D.   It is unlawful for any person to violate any other provision of this
chapter.
   E.   A criminal action may be brought against any person, officer, employee,
agent or other representative who violates any of the provisions of this
chapter. Each day that this chapter is violated shall constitute a separate
violation. Action may be brought in municipal court or any state court of
proper jurisdiction. Each violation is punishable as set forth in section
 1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 341, 11-21-2006)
CHAPTER 4
TELEPHONE SERVICE USER CHARGE
SECTION:
3-4-1: Emergency Telephone Service Authority Board
3-4-2: Change In Charges
3-4-1: EMERGENCY TELEPHONE SERVICE AUTHORITY BOARD:
The Jefferson County Emergency Telephone Service Authority Board is hereby
authorized to impose and collect an emergency telephone charge as defined in
Colorado Revised Statutes 29-11-102 (2), in an amount of up to and including
either forty cents ($0.40) per telephone exchange access facility or two
percent (2%) of the service provider tariff rate as defined in Colorado Revised
Statutes 29-11-102 (2), whichever is at any point in time the lower, subject to
the condition that prior to establishing or raising or lowering such charge the
Authority Board shall first give public notice of its intent in the official
newspaper of the Town and hold a public hearing thereon at which any interested
person may be present and appear. (Ord. 185, 12-4-1985)
3-4-2: CHANGE IN CHARGES:
Any change in the emergency telephone charge from time to time under this
authority shall be in accordance with Colorado Revised Statutes 29-11-103.
(Ord. 185, 12-4-1985)
CHAPTER 5
ADULT BUSINESSES
SECTION:
3-5-1: Title
3-5-2: Definitions
3-5-3: Location Of Adult Businesses
3-5-4: Licenses
3-5-5: Suspension Or Revocation Of License
3-5-6: Display, Transferability, Change Of Ownership, Change Of Corporate
Structure
3-5-7: Manager, Change Of Manager
3-5-8: Time Limits For Entertainment
3-5-9: Standards Of Conduct
3-5-10: Age Restrictions
3-5-11: Lighting Requirements
3-5-12: Right Of Entry
3-5-13: Exemptions Generally
3-5-14: Violation And Penalty
3-5-1: TITLE:
This Chapter shall be cited as the ADULT BUSINESS ORDINANCE OF THE TOWN OF
MORRISON. (Ord. 277, 10-7-1997)
3-5-2: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this Chapter, the words and phrases used herein, unless the
context otherwise indicates, shall have the following meanings:
   ADULT ARCADE: Any commercial establishment to which the public is permitted
or invited where, for any form of consideration, one or more still or motion
picture projectors, slide projectors, or similar machines, or other image-
producing machines, for viewing by five (5) or fewer persons per machine at any
one time, are used to regularly show films, motion pictures, video cassettes,
slides, or other photographic reproductions depicting actual acts of
masturbation, sexual intercourse, copulation, sodomy or displaying human
genitals in a state of sexual stimulation, arousal, or tumescence, or depicting
excretory functions as a part of or in connection with any of the activities
set forth in this Section.
   ADULT BOOKSTORE OR ADULT VIDEO STORE: A. A commercial establishment which,
as one of its principal business purposes, offers for sale or rental for any
form of consideration any one or more of the following:
1. Books, magazines, periodicals or other printed matter, or photographic,
films, motion picture, video cassettes or video reproductions, slides, or other
visual representations which depict or describe "specified sexual activities"
or "specified anatomical areas"; or
2. Instruments, devices, or paraphernalia which are designed for use in
connection with "specified sexual activities".
   B.   A commercial establishment may have other principal business purposes
that do not involve the offering for sale or rental of material depicting or
describing "specified sexual activities" or "specified anatomical areas" and
still be categorized as an adult bookstore or adult video store. Such other
business purposes will not serve to exempt such commercial establishments from
being categorized as an adult bookstore or adult video store so long as one of
its principal business purposes is the offering for sale or rental for
consideration the specified materials which depict or describe "specified
sexual activities" or "specified anatomical areas".
The definition of "principal business purpose" shall include any establishment
having as a substantial or significant portion of its stock in trade the items
listed in subsection A1 and A2 of this definition or any premises in which at
least one hundred (100) square feet of floor space is occupied by the display
of such items.
   ADULT BUSINESS: An adult arcade, adult cabaret, adult motion picture
theater, adult bookstore, adult motel, adult theater, adult video store, nude
model studio or sexual encounter center.
   ADULT CABARET: A nightclub, bar, restaurant, concert hall, auditorium, "pop
shop", or other commercial establishment which regularly features live adult
entertainment.
   ADULT ENTERTAINMENT: Any exhibition, display, or dance which involves the
exposure to view of any portion of the female breast below the top of the
areola, male genitals, female genitals, or the pubic hair, anus, or cleft of
the buttocks of any person or male genitals in a discernible turgid state even
if completely and opaquely covered.
   ADULT MOTEL: A hotel, motel or similar commercial establishment which offers
accommodations to the public for any form of consideration and provides patrons
with closed-circuit television transmission, films, motion pictures, video
cassettes, slides, or other photographic reproductions which are characterized
by the depiction or description of "specified sexual activities" or "specified
anatomical areas"; and has a sign visible from the public right of way which
advertises the availability of this adult type of photographic reproductions.
   ADULT MOTION PICTURE THEATER: Any commercial establishment to which the
public is permitted or invited, where for any form of consideration, films,
motion pictures, video cassettes, slides, or other photographic reproductions
are regularly shown depicting actual acts of masturbation, sexual intercourse,
oral copulation, sodomy or displaying human genitals in a state of sexual
stimulation, arousal, or tumescence, or depicting excretory functions as a part
of or in connection with any of the activities set forth in this definition.
Any establishment meeting the definition of an "adult arcade" is not an adult
motion picture theater.
   ADULT THEATER: A theater, concert hall, auditorium, or similar commercial
establishment which, for any form of consideration, regularly features persons
who appear in a state of nudity or live performances which are characterized by
exposure of "specified anatomical areas" or by "specified sexual activities".
   MASSAGE PARLOR: An establishment providing massage, but it does not include
training rooms of public or private schools accredited by the State Board of
Education or approved by the division charged with the responsibility of
approving private occupational schools, training rooms of recognized
professional or amateur athletic teams, or licensed health care facilities. A
facility which is operated for the purpose of massage therapy performed by a
massage therapist is not a massage parlor. For purposes of this definition,
"massage therapist" means a person who has graduated from a massage therapy
school accredited by the State educational board or division charged with the
responsibility of approving private occupational schools, or from a school with
comparable approval or accreditation from another state with transcripts
indicating completion of at least five hundred (500) hours of training in
massage therapy. For purposes of this definition, a massage therapy school may
include an equivalency program approved by the State educational board or
division charged with the responsibility of approving private occupational
schools.
   NUDE MODEL STUDIO: Any place where a person who appears in a state of nudity
or displays "specified anatomical areas" is provided to be observed, sketched,
drawn, painted, sculptured, photographed, or similarly depicted by other
persons who pay money or any form of consideration. The term "nude model
studio" does not apply to:
   A.   A college, junior college, or university supported entirely or partly
by taxation;
   B.   A private college or university which maintains and operates
educational programs in which credits are transferable to a college, junior
college, or university that is supported entirely or partly by taxation; or
   C.   A business located in a structure which has no sign visible from the
exterior of the structure and no other advertising that indicates a nude person
is available for viewing, and where, in order to participate in a class, a
student must enroll at least three (3) days in advance of the class, and where
no more than one nude model is on the premises at any one time.
   NUDITY OR A STATE OF NUDITY: The appearance of a bare human buttock, anus,
male genitals, female genitals, or female breast.
   PERFORMANCE: A play, motion picture, dance, or other exhibition performed
before an audience.
   PERSON: An individual, proprietorship, partnership, corporation, limited
liability company, association, or other legal entity.
   SEMI-NUDE: A state of dress in which clothing covers more than the genitals,
pubic region, and areola of the female breast, as well as portions of the body
covered by supporting straps or devices.
   SEXUAL ENCOUNTER CENTER: A business or commercial enterprise that regularly
offers as one of its primary business purposes, for any form of consideration,
activities between male and female persons and/or persons of the same sex when
one or more of the persons is in a state of nudity or semi-nudity. This
definition does not apply to licensed massage therapy or any treatment or
examination of another person for a bona fide medical purpose when such
treatment or examination is conducted in a manner substantially consistent with
reasonable medical practices.
   SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL AREAS: Means and includes any of the following:
   A.   Less than completely and opaquely covered human genitals, pubic region,
buttock, anus, or female breast below a point immediately above the top of the
areola; or
   B.   Human male genitals in a discernibly turgid state, even if completely
and opaquely covered.
   SPECIFIED SEXUAL ACTIVITIES: Means and includes any of the following:
   A.   The fondling or other intentional erotic touching of human genitals,
pubic region, buttock, anus, or female breast;
   B.   Sex acts, normal or perverted, actual or simulated, including
intercourse, oral copulation, or sodomy;
   C.   Masturbation, actual or simulated;
   D.   Human genitals in a state of sexual stimulation, arousal, or
tumescence; or
   E.   Excretory functions as part of or in connection with any of the
activities set forth in subsections A through D of this definition. (Ord. 277,
10-7-1997)
3-5-3: LOCATION OF ADULT BUSINESSES:
   A.   It shall be unlawful to operate or cause to be operated an adult
business in any location except as provided in the Morrison Zoning Ordinance.
   B.   It shall be unlawful to operate or cause to be operated an adult
business within seven hundred fifty feet (750') of:
      1.   A church as defined in the Morrison Zoning Ordinance;
      2.   A school or child care facility as defined in the Morrison Zoning
Ordinance;
      3.   A public park;
      4.   The property line of a lot zoned for residential use;
      5.   The property line of a lot on which there is a dwelling unit.
   C.   It shall be unlawful to cause or permit the operation of an adult
business within one thousand feet (1,000') of another "adult business" or a
"massage parlor" as defined in Section
 3-5-2 of this Chapter. The distance between any two (2) such businesses shall
be measured in a straight line, without regard to intervening structures or
objects, from the closest exterior wall of the structure in which the adult
business is located.
   D.   It shall be unlawful to cause or permit the operation, or maintenance
of more than one adult business in the same building, structure, or portion
thereof.
   E.   For the purpose of subsection B of this Section, the distance between
an adult business and the premises of a church, school, child care facility,
public park, residential district, or a residential lot shall be measured in a
straight line, without regard to intervening structures, objects or town
limits, from the closest exterior wall of the structure in which the adult
business is located to the property line of such uses.
   F.   Any adult business lawfully operating on the effective date of this
Chapter that is in violation of subsections B through E of this Section shall
be allowed to continue operating for an amortization period of six (6) months.
Six (6) months after this Ordinance becomes effective, all adult businesses
must comply with this Section and all other provisions of this Chapter.
   G.   An adult business lawfully operating is not rendered a nonconforming
use by the subsequent location of a church, school, child care facility, public
park, residential district, or a residential lot within seven hundred fifty
feet (750') of the adult business; however, if the adult business ceases
operation for a period of one hundred eighty (180) days or more regardless of
any intent to resume operation, it may not recommence operation in that
location.
   H.   Except for the amortization period set forth in subsection F of this
Section, each day of operation in violation of any provision of this Chapter
shall constitute a separate offense. (Ord. 277, 10-7-1997)
3-5-4: LICENSES:
   A.   License Required; Fee:
      1.   No person shall conduct an adult business without first having
obtained an adult business license as provided for herein.
      2.   A Type A adult business license shall be required for all adult
businesses where no fermented malt, malt, vinous, or spirituous beverages are
allowed. Applicants for a Type A adult business license shall pay a license fee
of five hundred dollars ($500.00).
      3.   A Type B adult business license shall be required for all
establishments where fermented malt, malt, vinous, or spirituous beverages are
sold within an establishment pursuant to a valid license issued under title 12,
article 46 or article 47, Colorado Revised Statutes operated in conjunction
with an adult business. Applicants for a Type B adult business license shall
pay a license fee of one thousand dollars ($1,000.00).
      4.   In the event an application for an adult business license is
withdrawn or denied, the license fee shall be refunded in full to the
applicant.
   B.   License Application:
      1.   All applicants for an adult business license shall file an
application for such license with the Town Clerk on forms to be provided by the
Clerk. Each individual applicant, partner of a partnership, officer, director
of a corporation or manager of a limited liability company, and all managers,
shall be named in each application form, and each of them shall be photographed
and fingerprinted by the Morrison Police Department.
      2.   The complete application shall contain the following information and
shall be accompanied by the following documents:
         a.   If the applicant is:
            (1)   An Individual: The individual shall state his legal name and
any aliases and submit satisfactory proof that he is twenty one (21) years of
age if the adult business will have adult entertainment or at least age
eighteen (18) if not;
            (2)   A Partnership: The partnership shall state its complete name,
and the names of all partners, whether the partnership is general or limited,
and a copy of the partnership agreement, if any;
            (3)   A Corporation: The corporation shall state its complete name,
the date of its incorporation, evidence that the corporation is in good
standing under the statutes of the State, or in the case of a foreign
corporation, evidence that it is currently authorized to do business in the
State, the names and capacity of all officers, directors and principal
stockholders, and the name of the registered corporate agent and the address of
the registered office for service of process;
            (4)   A Limited Liability Company: The company shall state its
complete name, the date of its formation, evidence that the company is in good
standing under the statutes of the State, or in the case of a foreign company,
evidence that it is currently authorized to do business in the State and the
name of the manager and registered agent and the address of the registered
office for service of process.
         b.   Whether the applicant or any other individual listed pursuant to
subsection B1 of this Section had a previous adult business license under this
Chapter, or other adult business or similar ordinance from another city or
county, denied, suspended or revoked, including the name and location of the
adult business for which the permit was denied, suspended or revoked, as well
as the date of the denial, suspension or revocation, and whether the applicant
or any other individuals listed pursuant to subsection B1 of this Section has
been a partner in a partnership or an officer, director of a corporation, or
manager of a limited liability company that is permitted under this Chapter
whose license has previously been denied, suspended or revoked, including the
name and location of the adult business for which the license was denied,
suspended or revoked as well as the date of denial, suspension or revocation.
         c.   Whether the applicant or any other individual listed pursuant to
subsection B1 of this Section holds any other license under this Chapter or
other similar adult business ordinance from another city or county and, if so,
the names and locations of such other permitted businesses.
         d.   The location of the proposed adult business, including a legal
description of the property, street address, and telephone number(s), if any.
         e.   Proof of the applicant's right to possession of the premises
wherein the adult business will be conducted.
         f.   The applicant's mailing address and residential address.
         g.   The applicant's driver's license number, social security number
and/or his federally issued tax identification number.
         h.   A floor plan of the licensed premises which specifies the
location and dimensions of any manager's station and demonstrates that there is
an unobstructed view from at least one of the manager's stations of every area
of the premises to which any patron is permitted access for any purpose
excluding restrooms. The floor plan shall designate those rooms or other areas
of the premises where patrons are not permitted and shall also designate the
use of each room or other area of the premises. The floor plan need not be
professionally prepared but must be drawn to a designated scale or drawn with
marked dimensions of the interior of the premises to an accuracy of plus or
minus six inches (±6"). The diagram shall designate the place at which the
license will be conspicuously posted and the location of any stage.
         i.   A current certificate and straight-line drawing prepared, within
thirty (30) days prior to the application, by a land surveyor depicting the
property lines and the structures containing any adult business or massage
parlor within one thousand feet (1,000') of the closest exterior wall of the
structure in which the applicant business will be located and depicting the
property line of any church, school, child care facility, public park,
residential district, or a dwelling unit within seven hundred fifty feet (750')
from the closest exterior wall of the structure in which the applicant business
will be located.
         j.   Evidence that the proposed location of such business complies
with the locational requirements of the Zoning Ordinance.
      3.   If the applicant is an individual, he must sign the application for
a license. If the applicant is other than an individual, an authorized
representative of the other legal entity must sign the application for a
license.
      4.   The Town Clerk shall not accept any application that is not complete
in every detail. If an omission or error is discovered by the Town Clerk, the
application will be returned to the applicant for completion or correction
without further action by the Town Clerk. Any application rejected due to an
omission or error shall be refiled only when the omission or error has been
remedied. For the purposes of this Chapter, the date the Town Clerk accepts an
application which is complete in every detail shall be the date the application
is filed with the Town Clerk.
      5.   In the event that the Town Clerk determines that the applicant has
improperly completed the application, he shall promptly notify the applicant of
such fact and allow the applicant ten (10) days to properly complete the
application. The time period for granting or denying a license shall be stayed
during the period in which the applicant is allowed an opportunity to properly
complete the application.
      6.   Applicants for a license under this Chapter shall have a continuing
duty to promptly supplement application information required by this Section in
the event that the information changes in any way from what was previously
provided. The failure to comply with said continuing duty within thirty (30)
days from the date of such change, by supplementing the application on file
with the Town Clerk, shall be grounds for suspension of an adult license.
   C.   Application Fee: Each applicant, whether an individual, partnership, or
corporation, shall pay an application fee of one hundred fifty dollars
($150.00) at the time of filing an application. Such application fee shall be
nonrefundable.
   D.   Approval Of License:
      1.   The application of any applicant shall be approved or denied by the
Town Clerk within sixty (60) days of the date the application is filed with the
Town Clerk. The Town Clerk shall deny a license if:
         a.   The applicant is under the age required of applicants in
subsection B2 of this Section;
         b.   The applicant has made a false statement upon the application or
given false information in connection with an application;
         c.   The applicant, or a director, officer, partner, or principal of
the applicant has had an adult business license revoked or suspended anywhere
within the State within one year prior to the application;
         d.   The applicant has operated an adult business which was determined
to be a public nuisance under State law, a county or municipal ordinance or
resolution, or the Morrison Municipal Code within one year prior to the
application;
         e.   A corporate applicant is not in good standing or authorized to do
business in the State; or
         f.   The applicant is overdue in payment to the Town of taxes, fees,
fines, or penalties assessed against him or imposed against him in relation to
an adult business.
      2.   In the event that the Town Clerk denies a license, she shall make
written findings of fact stating the reasons for the denial and a copy of such
decision shall be sent by certified mail to the address shown in the
application within ten (10) days after her denial. An applicant shall have the
right to a hearing before the Board of Trustees. A written request for such a
hearing shall be made to the Board of Trustees within thirty (30) days of the
date of the denial of the license by the Town Clerk.
      3.   No license shall be issued by the Town Clerk or his designee after
approval of an application until the building in which the business is to be
conducted is ready for occupancy with such furniture, fixtures, and equipment
in place as are necessary to comply with the provisions of this Chapter, and
then only after inspection of the premises has been made by the Police
Department to determine that the applicant has complied with the plans and
specifications submitted with the application. Such inspection of the premises
shall be made within ten (10) days after the Town Clerk receives written
notification from the applicant that premises are in compliance with the
submitted plans and specifications. If the licensed location has been inactive,
without good cause, for at least one year or if the building has not been
constructed and placed in operation within two (2) years after approval of the
license application, or construction of the building has not commenced within
one year after such approval, the Town Clerk or her designee, shall revoke or
elect not to issue or renew the license.
   E.   Term Of The License: All licenses granted pursuant to this Chapter
shall be for a term of one year. Said term shall commence on January 1 of each
year and terminate upon December 31 of the same year. Applications for a
license filed at any other time during the year shall be treated the same as if
they were filed January 1 of that year and shall terminate on December 31 of
that same year, and no proration shall be permitted.
   F.   License Renewal: Renewal of an existing license granted pursuant to
this Chapter may be had by payment of the annual licensing fee and filing of a
renewal application with the Town Clerk not less than forty five (45) days
prior to the date of expiration. The Town Clerk may, for good cause shown,
waive the timely filing requirement. (Ord. 277, 10-7-1997)
3-5-5: SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION OF LICENSE:
   A.   The Board of Trustees may suspend a license for a period not to exceed
six (6) months or revoke any license granted pursuant to this Chapter upon a
finding of any of the following factors:
      1.   That repeated disturbances of public peace have occurred within the
licensed establishment or upon any parking areas, sidewalks, access ways or
grounds within the neighborhood of the licensed establishment involving
patrons, employees, or the licensee;
      2.   That the licensee or any employees thereof have illegally offered
for sale or illegally allowed to be consumed or possessed upon the licensed
premises, or upon any parking areas, sidewalks, access ways or grounds
immediately adjacent to the licensed premises, narcotics or dangerous drugs or
fermented malt, malt, vinous or spirituous beverages;
      3.   That the licensee or manager or his designee is not upon the
licensed premises at all times that adult entertainment is being provided;
      4.   That adult entertainment was offered at the licensed establishment
during prohibited hours;
      5.   That the licensee, manager, or employee has allowed patrons to
engage in public displays of indecency in violation of Colorado law or has
allowed patrons or employees to engage in acts of prostitution or negotiations
for acts of prostitution within the licensed establishment or upon any parking
areas, sidewalks, access ways, or grounds immediately adjacent to the licensed
establishment, when the licensee, manager, or employee knew or should have
known such displays or acts were taking place;
      6.   That the licensee or manager made a false statement or gave false
information in connection with an application for a license or a renewal of a
license;
      7.   That the licensee, manager, or employee violated or permitted a
violation of any provision of this Chapter including the standards of conduct
set out in Section
3-5-9 of this Chapter;
      8.   That a manager of the licensed establishment is under the age of
twenty one (21) years if adult entertainment is offered or eighteen (18) if
there is no adult entertainment offered on the premises;
      9.   The licensee, in the case of a corporation, is not in good standing
or authorized to do business in the State;
      10.   The licensee, or an employee knowingly operated the adult business
during a period of time when the adult business license was suspended;
      11.   The licensee is delinquent in payment to the Town or State for any
taxes or fees past due; or
      12.   That the licensee, manager, or employee has knowingly allowed any
act of sexual intercourse, sodomy, oral copulation, or masturbation to occur
within the licensed premises.
   B.   Nothing in this Chapter shall prohibit the Town from taking any other
enforcement action provided for by this Code, the laws of the State, or of the
United States.
   C.   A licensee shall be entitled to a hearing before the Board of Trustees
if the Town seeks to suspend or revoke his license based on a violation of this
Ordinance.
      1.   When there is probable cause to believe that a licensee has violated
or permitted a violation of this Chapter to occur in or near the licensed
establishment, the Town Attorney may file a written complaint with the Board of
Trustees setting forth the circumstances of the violation.
      2.   The Board of Trustees shall provide a copy of the complaint to the
licensee, together with notice to appear before the Board of Trustees for the
purpose of a hearing on a specified date to show cause why the licensee's
license should not be suspended or revoked.
      3.   At the hearing referred to in this subsection C, the Board of
Trustees shall hear such statements and consider such evidence as the Police
Department, or other enforcement officers, the owner, occupant, lessee, or
other party in interest, or any other witness shall offer which is relevant to
the violation alleged in the complaint. The Board of Trustees shall make
findings of fact from the statements and evidence offered as to whether the
violation occurred in or near the licensed establishment. If the Board of
Trustees determines that a violation did occur it shall issue an order
suspending or revoking the license, within thirty (30) days after the hearing
is concluded, based on the findings of fact. A copy of the order shall be
mailed to or served on the licensee at the address on the license.
      4.   The order of the Board of Trustees made pursuant to subsection C3 of
this Section shall be a final decision and may be appealed to the District
Court pursuant to Colorado Rules of Civil Procedure 106(a)(4). Failure of an
applicant to timely appeal said order constitutes a waiver by him of any right
he may otherwise have to contest the suspension or revocation of his license.
      5.   The Board of Trustees shall have the power to administer oaths,
issue subpoenas, and when necessary, grant continuances. Subpoenas may be
issued to require the presence of persons and production of papers, books, and
records necessary to the determination of any hearing which the Board of
Trustees conducts. It is unlawful for any person to fail to comply with any
subpoena issued by the Board of Trustees. A subpoena shall be served in the
same manner as a subpoena issued by the District Court of the State. Upon
failure of any witness to comply with such subpoena, the Town Attorney shall:
         a.   Petition the judge of the Municipal Court of the Town, setting
forth that due notice has been given of the time and place of attendance of the
witness and the service of the subpoena, that the court, after hearing evidence
in support of or contrary to the petition, enter its order compelling the
witness to attend and testify or produce books, or other evidence, under
penalty of punishment for contempt in case of wilful failure to comply with
such order of court; or
         b.   Petition the District Court in and for Jefferson County, setting
forth that due notice has been given of the time and place of attendance of the
witness and the service of the subpoena, that the court, after hearing evidence
in support of or contrary to the petition, enter its order as in other civil
actions, compelling the witness to attend and testify or produce books, or
other evidence, under penalty of punishment for contempt in case of wilful
failure to comply with such order of court.
      6.   In any such proceeding the Town Attorney may act on behalf of the
Town during the hearing.
      7.   All hearings held before the Board of Trustees regarding suspension
or revocation of a license issued under this Chapter shall be recorded
stenographically or by electronic recording device. Any person requesting a
transcript of such record shall post a deposit in the amount required by the
Town Clerk, and shall pay all costs of preparing such record.
   D.   In the event of suspension, revocation, or cessation of business, no
portion of the license fee shall be refunded.
   E.   When the Board of Trustees revokes a license, the revocation shall
continue for one year, and the licensee shall not be issued an adult business
license for one year from the date the revocation became effective. (Ord. 277,
10-7-1997)
3-5-6: DISPLAY, TRANSFERABILITY, CHANGE OF OWNERSHIP, CHANGE OF CORPORATE
STRUCTURE:
   A.   Any adult business license issued pursuant to the terms of this Chapter
shall be prominently displayed at all times upon the premises for which the
license was issued.
   B.   Licenses issued under this Chapter shall not be transferable except as
provided herein. Any change in the partners of a partnership or in officers and
directors of a corporate licensee, or of the manager of a limited liability
company, holding an adult business license shall result in termination of the
license within thirty (30) days of such change, unless the licensee files a
written notice of such change accompanied by the application fee and an
investigation fee as required by subsection
3-5-4C of this Chapter. Any such change shall be reported on forms provided by
the Town Clerk and shall require the names of all new partners, officers and
directors of a corporate licensee, or of the manager of a limited liability
company, and any information as required by subsection
3-5-4B of this Chapter. Approval or denial by the Town Clerk of such transfer
shall be upon the same terms as provided for in this Chapter for the approval
or denial of an adult business license.
   C.   When a license has been issued to a husband and wife or to general or
limited partners, the death of a spouse or partner shall not require the
surviving spouse or partner to obtain a new license. All rights and privileges
granted under the original license shall continue in full force and effect as
to such survivor for the balance of the license.
   D.   Each license issued under this Chapter is separate and distinct, and no
person shall exercise any of the privileges granted under any license other
than that which he holds. A separate license shall be issued for each specific
business or business entity and each geographical location. (Ord. 277, 10-7-
1997)
3-5-7: MANAGER, CHANGE OF MANAGER:
   A.   A registered manager or his designee shall be on the premises of an
adult business at all times that adult entertainment is being provided. It
shall be unlawful for any person to work as a manager of an adult business
without first registering with the Town Clerk. The registration form shall
require the applicant to provide his legal name and any aliases, home address,
telephone number, and satisfactory proof that he is twenty one (21) years of
age.
   B.   Shall immediately report such change and register the new manager on
forms provided by the Town Clerk within ten (10) days of such change. (Ord.
277, 10-7-1997)
3-5-8: TIME LIMITS FOR ENTERTAINMENT:
No adult entertainment shall be offered or provided in the following types of
adult businesses during the following days and times:
   A.   Type A: Prior to twelve o'clock (12:00) noon or later than twelve
o'clock (12:00) midnight, or anytime on a Sunday.
   B.   Type B: Prior to twelve o'clock (12:00) noon or later than two o'clock
(2:00) A.M. or anytime on a Sunday after two o'clock (2:00) A.M. (Ord. 277, 10-
7-1997)
3-5-9: STANDARDS OF CONDUCT:
   A.   The following standards of conduct must be adhered to by employees of
any adult business which offers, conducts, or maintains live adult
entertainment:
      1.   No employee or entertainer mingling with the patrons or serving food
or drinks shall be unclothed or in such attire, costume or clothing so as to
expose to view any portion of the female breast below the top of the areola or
of any portion of the pubic hair, anus, cleft of the buttocks, vulva or
genitals or display male genitals in a discernibly turgid state even if
completely and opaquely covered.
      2.   No employee or entertainer shall encourage or knowingly permit any
person upon the premises to touch, caress or fondle the breasts, buttocks, anus
or genitals of any other person.
      3.   No employee or entertainer shall wear or use any device or covering
exposed to view, which simulates the breast, genitals, anus, pubic hair or any
portion thereof.
      4.   No employee or entertainer shall be unclothed or in such attire,
costume, or clothing so as to expose any portion of the female breasts below
the top of the areola, or any portion of the pubic hair, anus, cleft of the
buttocks, vulva, or genitals of any person, except upon a stage at least
eighteen inches (18") above the immediate floor level and removed at least six
feet (6') from the nearest patron or behind a solid, uninterrupted physical
barrier which completely separates the entertainer from any patrons. This
barrier must be a minimum of one-fourth inch (1/4") thick and have no openings
between the entertainer and any patrons. The stage shall be fixed and
immovable.
      5.   No employee or entertainer shall perform while nude or semi-nude any
obscene acts or acts which simulate:
         a.   Sexual intercourse, masturbation, sodomy, bestiality, oral
copulation, flagellation, or any sexual acts which are prohibited by law; or
         b.   The touching, caressing or fondling of the breasts, buttocks,
anus, or genitals.
      6.   No employee or entertainer shall use artificial devices or inanimate
objects to depict any of the prohibited activities described in this Section.
      7.   There shall be posted and conspicuously displayed in the common
areas of each place offering adult entertainment a list of food and drink
prices.
      8.   Any tips for entertainers shall be placed by a patron into a tip box
which is permanently affixed in the adult business and no tip may be handed
directly to an entertainer. A licensee that desires to provide for such tips
from its patrons shall establish one or more containers to receive tips. Any
physical contact between a patron and an entertainer is strictly prohibited.
      9.   An adult business that provides tip boxes shall conspicuously
display in the common area of the premises one or more signs in letters at
least one inch (1") high to read as follows:
   ADULT ENTERTAINMENT IS REGULATED
BY THE TOWN OF MORRISON;
All tips are to be placed in tip box and not handed directly to the
entertainer. Any physical contact between the patron and the entertainer is
strictly prohibited.
      10.   No adult entertainment occurring on the premises shall be visible
at any time from outside of the premises.
   B.   Any licensee who offers, conducts, or maintains live adult
entertainment or an adult arcade which exhibits in a viewing room of less than
one hundred fifty (150) square feet of floor space, a film videocassette, or
other video reproduction, shall comply with the following requirements in
addition to those set forth in subsection A of this Section:
      1.   It is the duty of the licensee of the premises to ensure that at
least one employee is on duty and situated in each manager's station at all
times that any patron is present inside the premises.
      2.   It is the duty of the licensee and operator of the premises to
ensure that any doors to areas on the premises where patrons are permitted
remain unlocked during business hours.
      3.   The interior of the premises shall be configured in such a manner
that there is an unobstructed view from a manager's station of every area of
the premises to which any patron is permitted access for any purpose excluding
restrooms. Restrooms may not contain video reproduction equipment. If the
premises have two (2) or more manager's stations designated, then the interior
of the premises shall be configured in such a manner that there is an
unobstructed view of each area of the premises to which any patron is permitted
access for any purpose excluding restrooms from at least one of the manager's
stations. The view required in this subsection must be by direct line of sight
from the manager's station. A manager's station may not exceed thirty two (32)
square feet of floor area.
      4.   No alteration to the configuration or location of a manager's
station may be made without the prior approval of the Town Clerk.
      5.   It shall be the duty of the licensee, and it shall also be the duty
of any agents and employees present in the premises to ensure that the view
area specified in subsection B3 of this Section remains unobstructed by any
doors, curtains, drapes, walls, merchandise, display racks or other materials
at all times and to ensure that no patron is permitted access to any area of
the premises which has been designated as an area in which patrons will not be
permitted in the license application filed pursuant to this Chapter.
      6.   No viewing room may be occupied by more than one person at any one
time.
      7.   Viewing rooms must be separated from other viewing rooms by a solid,
uninterrupted physical divider which is a minimum of one- fourth inch (1/4")
thick and serves to prevent physical contact between patrons.
   C.   Nothing in this Section shall be construed to permit any act on the
premises of a Type B adult business licensee in violation of title 12, article
46 or article 47, Colorado Revised Statutes. (Ord. 277, 10-7-1997)
3-5-10: AGE RESTRICTIONS:
For those adult businesses which offer live entertainment, the age for
allowable admission shall be twenty one (21) years or older. Admission to adult
businesses is restricted to persons of the age of twenty one (21) years or more
during hours adult entertainment is being presented. This minimum age
limitation also applies to any employees, agents, servants, or independent
contractors working on the premises. (Ord. 277, 10-7-1997)
3-5-11: LIGHTING REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   All off-street parking areas and premises entries of adult businesses
shall be illuminated from dusk to closing hours of operation with a lighting
system which provides an average maintained horizontal illumination of one
foot-candle of light on the parking surface and/or walkways. This required
lighting level is established in order to provide sufficient illumination of
the parking areas and walkways serving the adult business to help ensure the
personal safety of patrons and employees and to reduce the incidence of
vandalism and other criminal conduct.
   B.   The premises of all adult businesses, except adult motion picture
theaters, shall be equipped with overhead lighting fixtures of sufficient
intensity to illuminate every place to which patrons are permitted access to
provide an illumination of not less than two (2) foot-candle of light as
measured at the floor level.
   C.   Adult motion picture theaters shall be equipped with overhead lighting
fixtures of sufficient intensity to illuminate every place to which patrons are
permitted access to provide an illumination of not less than one foot-candle of
light as measured at the floor level. (Ord. 277, 10-7-1997)
3-5-12: RIGHT OF ENTRY:
The application for an adult business license shall constitute consent of the
licensee and his agents or employees to permit the Morrison Police Department
or any other agent of the Town to conduct routine inspections of any licensed
adult business during the hours the establishment is conducting business. (Ord.
277, 10-7-1997)
3-5-13: EXEMPTIONS GENERALLY:
It is an affirmative defense to prosecution under this Chapter if a person
appearing in a state of nudity or semi-nude did so in a modeling class
operated:
   A.   By a proprietary school, licensed by the State; a college, junior
college, or university supported entirely or partly by taxation;
   B.   By a private college or university which maintains and operates
educational programs in which credits are transferable to a college, junior
college, or university supported entirely or partly by taxation; or
   C.   In a structure:
      1.   Which has no sign visible from the exterior of the structure and no
other advertising that indicates a nude person is available for viewing; and
      2.   Where, in order to participate in a class a student must enroll at
least three (3) days in advance of the class; and
      3.   Where no more than one nude model is on the premises at any one
time. (Ord. 277, 10-7-1997)
3-5-14: VIOLATION AND PENALTY:
   A.   It shall be unlawful to use or cause to be used any building or
structure, or to use or cause to be used any land, in violation of this
Chapter.
Any person, firm or corporation, including the officers or agents of a
corporation responsible for its actions and the members of a partnership, firm
or joint venture, violating or causing a violation of this Chapter or any
amendment thereto, upon conviction thereof, shall be fined not more than one
thousand dollars ($1,000.00) or imprisoned not more than one hundred eighty
(180) days or both. Each day during which such violation continues shall be
deemed a separate offense.
   B.   If any building or structure is used or caused to be used, or any land
is used or caused to be used, in violation of this Chapter, the Town Attorney,
or any owner of property located within the zoning district in which such
building, structure or land is situated, or immediately adjacent thereto, in
addition to any other remedy or penalty which may exist, may institute
injunction, mandamus, abatement, nuisance, or other appropriate action or
proceeding to prevent, enjoin, abate or remove such violation. (Ord. 277, 10-7-
1997)
CHAPTER 6
LODGING EXCISE TAX
SECTION:
3-6-1: Purpose
3-6-2: Definitions
3-6-3: Levy Of Tax
3-6-4: Exemptions
3-6-5: Collection Of Tax
3-6-6: Audit Of Records
3-6-7: Tax Overpayments And Deficiencies
3-6-8: Tax Information Confidential
3-6-9: Forms And Regulations
3-6-10: Enforcement Of Penalties
3-6-11: Tax Lien
3-6-12: Recovery Of Unpaid Tax
3-6-13: Status Of Unpaid Tax In Bankruptcy And Receivership
3-6-14: Hearings, Subpoenas And Witness Fees
3-6-15: Depositions
3-6-16: Statute Of Limitations
3-6-1: PURPOSE:
The board of trustees hereby finds, determines and declares:
   A.   For the purposes of this chapter, every person that furnishes a lodging
room or accommodation for consideration in the town is exercising a taxable
privilege. The purpose of this chapter is to impose a tax which will be paid by
every lodging provider providing such lodging room or accommodation in the
town.
   B.   Pursuant to authority found in the laws of the state, the lodging
excise tax is adopted for the purpose of promoting the health, safety, morals
and general welfare of the town.
   C.   The provision of lodging rooms and accommodations to the traveling
public results in the increased use of town streets and rights of way,
increased traffic, increased demands upon municipal services and has
substantial effect upon the health, safety and welfare of the citizens of the
town and upon expenditures budgeted by the town which is a matter of local
concern.
   D.   The classification of the provision of lodging as separate businesses
and occupations is reasonable, proper, uniform, nondiscriminatory and
necessary. (Ord. 391, 9-17-2013)
3-6-2: DEFINITIONS:
For purposes of this chapter, the following words shall have the following
meanings:
   LODGER'S TAX: An excise tax payable by the purchaser of lodging services or
the aggregate amount of taxes due from a lodging provider during the period for
which such person is required to report the collections of lodger's taxes as
herein specified.
   LODGING PRICE: The gross price paid, exclusive of other taxes paid, or value
given by the customer for the provision of lodging services.
   LODGING PROVIDER: Any person in an establishment with more than ten (10)
guestrooms, furnishing lodging services or such provider's authorized agent.
   LODGING SERVICES: The providing of hotel rooms, motel rooms, lodging rooms,
motor hotel rooms, guesthouse rooms or other similar accommodations, in an
establishment with eight (8) or more guestrooms, except meeting rooms, that are
rented to persons for a period of less than one month or thirty (30)
consecutive days, but shall not include rentals under a written agreement for
occupancy for a period of at least one month or thirty (30) days.
   PERSON: Any individual, firm, partnership, joint venture, corporation, a
state or trust, receiver, trustee, assignee, lessee or any person acting in a
fiduciary or representative capacity, whether appointed by a court or
otherwise, or any group or combination acting as a unit, and includes a plural
as well as a singular number.
   TAXPAYER: Any person obligated to account to the town for taxes collected or
to be collected under the terms of this chapter. (Ord. 391, 9-17-2013)
3-6-3: LEVY OF TAX:
Effective January 1, 2014, there is hereby levied and shall be paid and
collected an excise tax of 6.00 percent on the lodging price paid for leasing,
rental or providing of any lodging services located in the town. This tax shall
be in addition to the sales and use tax as established pursuant to chapters 2
and 3 of this title. It shall be a violation of this code for any purchaser of
lodging services located in the town to fail to pay, or for any lodging
provider of such accommodation to fail to collect, a tax levied pursuant to
this section. (Ord. 391, 9-17-2013)
3-6-4: EXEMPTIONS:
The following transactions shall be exempt from the tax imposed by this
chapter:
   A.   Lodging or accommodations provided by the United States, the state, its
departments and institutions and the political subdivision of the state in
their governmental capacities only;
   B.   Lodging or accommodations provided by those charitable, religious and
eleemosynary organizations that have received from the internal revenue service
status under section 501(c)(3) of the internal revenue code as a tax exempt
organization, while in the conduct of their regular charitable, religious or
eleemosynary functions and activities;
   C.   Lodging or accommodations provided to a person who is a permanent
resident of a hotel, motel, apartment hotel, lodging house, motor hotel,
guesthouse or other similar business pursuant to a written agreement for a
period of at least one month or thirty (30) consecutive days; and
   D.   Lodging services provided in an establishment with fewer than eleven
(11) guestrooms. (Ord. 391, 9-17-2013)
3-6-5: COLLECTION OF TAX:
   A.   Every lodging provider providing lodging taxable under this chapter
shall remit such tax on or before the tenth day of each month on account of
lodging provided in the preceding month. Said payment shall be accompanied by a
return which shall contain such information and be in such form as the town
clerk may prescribe.
   B.   The burden of proving that any transaction is exempt from the tax shall
be upon the lodging provider.
   C.   If the accounting methods regularly employed by the lodging provider in
the transaction of business, or other conditions, are such that the returns
aforesaid made on a calendar month basis will impose unnecessary hardship, the
town clerk may, upon request of the lodging provider, accept returns at such
intervals as will, in the town clerk's opinion, better suit the convenience of
the lodging provider and will not jeopardize the collection of the tax;
provided, however, that the town clerk may by rule permit a lodging provider
whose monthly tax obligation is less than sixty dollars ($60.00) to make
returns and pay taxes at intervals not greater than three (3) months.
   D.   It shall be the duty of every lodging provider to maintain, keep and
preserve suitable records of all sales made by the lodging provider and such
other books or accounts as may be required by the town clerk in order to
determine the amount of the tax of which the lodging provider is liable under
this chapter. It shall be the duty of every such lodging provider to keep and
preserve for a period of three (3) years all such books, invoices and other
records, and the same shall be open for examination by the town clerk or the
clerk's designee.
   E.   The tax to be paid by a lodging provider shall not be stated and
charged separately from the lodging price on any record thereof at the time
when the sale is made or at the time when evidence of the sale is issued,
provided that the lodging provider may indicate the sales price "includes a
6.00 percent Morrison lodging excise tax". (Ord. 391, 9-17-2013)
3-6-6: AUDIT OF RECORDS:
   A.   For the purposes of ascertaining the correct amount of the lodging
excise tax on the provision of lodging due from any person engaged in such
business in the town under this chapter, the town clerk or an authorized agent
may conduct an audit by examining any relevant books, accounts and records of
such person.
   B.   All books, invoices, accounts and other records shall be made available
within the town limits and be open at any time during regular business hours
for examination by the town clerk or an authorized agent. If any taxpayer
refuses to voluntarily furnish any of the foregoing information when requested,
the town clerk may issue a subpoena to require that the taxpayer or its
representative attend a hearing or produce any such books, accounts and records
for examination.
   C.   Any exempt organization claiming exemption under the provisions of this
chapter is subject to audit in the same manner as any other person engaged in
the lodging business in the town. (Ord. 391, 9-17-2013)
3-6-7: TAX OVERPAYMENTS AND DEFICIENCIES:
An application for refund of tax monies paid in error or by mistake shall be
made within three (3) years after the date of payment for which the refund is
claimed. If the town clerk determines that within three (3) years of the due
date, a lodging provider overpaid the excise tax on the provision of lodging,
the town clerk shall process a refund or allow a credit against a future
remittance from the same taxpayer. If at any time the town clerk determines the
amount paid is less than the amount due under this chapter, the difference
together with the interest shall be paid by the lodging provider within ten
(10) days after receiving written notice and demand from the town clerk. The
town clerk may extend that time for good cause. (Ord. 391, 9-17-2013)
3-6-8: TAX INFORMATION CONFIDENTIAL:
   A.   All specific information gained under the provisions of this chapter
which is used to determine the tax due from a taxpayer, whether furnished by
the taxpayer or obtained through audit, shall be treated by the town and its
officers, employees or legal representatives as confidential. Except as
directed by a judicial order or as provided in this chapter, no town officer,
employee or legal representative shall divulge any confidential information. If
directed by judicial order, the officials charged with the custody of such
information shall be required to provide only such information as is directly
involved in the action or proceeding. Any town officer or employee who shall
knowingly divulge any information classified herein as confidential, in any
manner, except in accordance with proper judicial order, or as otherwise
provided in this chapter or by law, shall be guilty of violation punishable by
a fine in accordance with section
1-4-1 of this code but not imprisonment.
   B.   The town clerk may furnish to officials of any other governmental
entity who may be owed tax any confidential information, provided that such
jurisdiction enters into an agreement with the town to grant reciprocal
privileges to the town.
   C.   Nothing contained in this section shall be construed to prohibit the
delivery to the taxpayer or their duly authorized representative a copy of such
confidential information relating to such taxpayer, the publication of
statistics so classified as to prevent the identification of particular
taxpayers, or the inspection of such confidential information by an officer,
employee or legal representative of the town. (Ord. 391, 9-17-2013)
3-6-9: FORMS AND REGULATIONS:
The town clerk is hereby authorized to prescribe forms and promulgate rules and
regulations to aid in the making of returns, the ascertainment, assessment and
collection of said excise tax on the provision of lodging and in particular and
without limiting the general language of this chapter, to provide for:
   A.   A form of report on the provision of lodging to be supplied to all
lodging providers;
   B.   The records which lodging providers providing lodging are to keep
concerning the tax imposed by this chapter. (Ord. 391, 9-17-2013)
3-6-10: ENFORCEMENT OF PENALTIES:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person to intentionally, knowingly or
recklessly fail to pay the tax imposed by this chapter, or to make any false or
fraudulent return, or for any person to otherwise violate any provisions of
this chapter. Any person convicted of a violation of this chapter shall be
deemed guilty of a municipal criminal offense and shall be punished by a fine
of not more than one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) or by imprisonment for a
period of three hundred sixty-four days, or by both such fine and imprisonment.
Each day, or portion thereof, that any violation of this chapter continues
shall constitute a separate offense.
   B.   A penalty in the amount of ten percent (10%) of the tax due or the sum
of ten dollars ($10.00), whichever is greater, shall be imposed upon the
lodging provider and become due in the event the tax is not remitted by the
tenth day of the month as required by this chapter, or such other date as
prescribed by the town clerk, and one and one-half percent (11/2%) interest
shall accrue each month on the unpaid balance. The town clerk is hereby
authorized to waive for good cause shown, any penalty assessed.
   C.   If any part of a deficiency is due to negligence or intentional
disregard of the provisions of this chapter or rules and regulations concerning
the same, but without intent to defraud, there shall be added ten percent (10%)
to the total of the deficiency, and interest, from the lodging provider
required to file a return. If any part of the deficiency is due to fraud with
the intent to evade the tax, then there shall be added fifty percent (50%) of
the total amount of the deficiency together with interest, and in such case,
the whole amount of the unpaid tax, including the additions, shall become due
and payable ten (10) days after written notice and demand by the town clerk.
Interest shall be determined at the rate of one and one-half percent (11/2%)
per month and shall accrue each month on the unpaid balance.
   D.   If any lodging provider fails to make a return and pay the tax imposed
by this chapter, the town may make an estimate, based upon available
information, of the amount of tax due and add the penalty and interest provided
above. The town shall mail notice of such estimate, by certified mail, to the
lodging provider at his or her address as indicated in the town records. Such
estimate shall thereupon become an assessment, and such assessment shall be
final and due and payable from the taxpayer to the town clerk ten (10) days
from the date of service of the notice or the date of mailing by certified
mail; provided, however, that within the ten (10) day period such delinquent
taxpayer may petition the town clerk for a revision or modification of such
assessment and shall, within such ten (10) day period, furnish the town clerk
the documents, facts and figures showing the correct amount of such taxes due
and owing.
   E.   Such petition shall be in writing, and the facts and figures submitted
shall be submitted in writing and shall be given by the taxpayer under penalty
of perjury. Thereupon, the town clerk may modify such assessment in accordance
with the facts submitted in order to effectuate the provisions of this chapter.
Such assessment shall be considered the final order of the town clerk, and may
be reviewed under rule 106(a)(4) of the Colorado rules of civil procedure,
provided that the taxpayer gives written notice to the town clerk of such
intention within ten (10) days after receipt of the final order of assessment.
(Ord. 391, 9-17-2013; amd. Ord. 493, 6-2-2020)
3-6-11: TAX LIEN:
   A.   The tax imposed by this chapter, together with the interest and
penalties herein provided and the costs of collection which may be incurred,
shall be, and until paid shall remain a first and prior lien superior to all
other liens on all the tangible personal property of a taxpayer within the town
and may be foreclosed by seizing under distraint warrant and selling so much
thereof as may be necessary to discharge the lien. Such distraint warrant may
be issued by the town clerk whenever the taxpayer is in default in the payment
of the tax, interest, penalty or costs. Such warrant may be served and the
goods subject to such lien seized by any town police officer, the Jefferson
County sheriff or any duly authorized employee of the town. The property so
seized may be sold by the agency seizing the same or by the town clerk, by
public auction after ten (10) days have passed following an advertised notice
in a newspaper published or circulated in the town, in the same manner as is
prescribed by law in respect to executions against property upon judgment of a
court of record, and the remedies of garnishment shall apply.
   B.   The tax imposed by this chapter shall be and remain a first and prior
lien superior to all other liens on the real property and appurtenant premises
at which the taxable transactions occurred. (Ord. 391, 9-17-2013)
3-6-12: RECOVERY OF UNPAID TAX:
   A.   The town clerk may also treat any such taxes, penalties, costs or
interest due and unpaid as a debt due the town from the taxpayer.
   B.   In case of failure to pay the taxes or any portion thereof, or any
penalty, costs or interest thereon, when due, the town clerk may recover at law
the amount of such taxes, penalties, costs, the reasonable value of any
attorney's time or the reasonable attorney fees charged, plus interest, in any
county or district court of the county wherein the taxpayer resides or had a
principal place of business (at the time the tax became due) having
jurisdiction of the amount sought to be collected.
   C.   The return of the taxpayer or the assessment made by the town clerk
shall be prima facie proof of the amount due.
   D.   Such actions may be actions in attachment and writs of attachment may
be issued to the Morrison police or Jefferson County sheriff, as the case may
be, and in any such proceeding no bond shall be required of the town clerk, nor
shall any police officer or sheriff require of the town clerk an indemnifying
bond for executing the writ of attachment or writ of execution upon any
judgment entered in such proceedings. The town clerk may prosecute appeals in
such cases without the necessity of providing bond therefor.
   E.   It shall be the duty of the town attorney, when requested by the town
clerk, to commence action for the recovery of taxes due under this chapter and
this remedy shall be in addition to all other existing remedies or remedies
provided in this chapter. The taxpayer shall be responsible for paying the
town's attorney fees and costs.
   F.   The town may certify the amount of any delinquent tax, plus interest,
penalties and the cost of collection including attorney fees and costs, as a
charge against the property at which the taxable transaction occurred to the
county treasurer for collection in the same manner as delinquent ad valorem
taxes. (Ord. 391, 9-17-2013)
3-6-13: STATUS OF UNPAID TAX IN BANKRUPTCY AND RECEIVERSHIP:
Whenever the business or property of a taxpayer subject to this chapter shall
be placed in receivership, bankruptcy or assignment for the benefit of
creditors or seized under distraint for taxes, all taxes, penalties and
interest imposed by this chapter and for which the taxpayer is in any way
liable under the terms of this chapter shall be a prior and preferred lien
against all the property of the taxpayer, except as to other tax liens which
have attached prior to the filing of the notice, and no sheriff, receiver,
assignee or other officer shall sell the property of any person subject to this
chapter under process or order of any court, without first ascertaining from
the town clerk the amount of any taxes due and payable under this chapter, and
if there be any such taxes due, owing and unpaid, it shall be the duty of such
officer to first pay the amount of the taxes out of the proceeds of such sale
before making payment of any monies to any judgment creditor or other claimants
of whatsoever kind or nature, except the costs of the proceedings and other
preexisting tax liens as above provided. (Ord. 391, 9-17-2013)
3-6-14: HEARINGS, SUBPOENAS AND WITNESS FEES:
   A.   Hearings before the town clerk pursuant to provisions in this chapter
shall be held pursuant to the ordinance codified herein and rules and
regulations promulgated by the town clerk. Any subpoena issued pursuant to this
chapter may be enforced by the municipal judge pursuant to section 13-10-112(2)
Colorado Revised Statutes. The fees of witness for attendance at hearings shall
be the same as the fees of witnesses before the district court, such fees to be
paid when the witness is excused from further attendance. When the witness is
subpoenaed at the instance of the town clerk, such fees shall be paid in the
same manner as other expenses under the terms of this chapter, and when a
witness is subpoenaed at the instance of any party to any such proceeding, the
town clerk may require that the cost of service of the subpoena and the fee of
the witness be borne by the party at whose instance the witness is summoned. In
such case, the town clerk, at his or her discretion, may require a deposit to
cover the cost of such service and witness fees. A subpoena issued as aforesaid
shall be served in the same manner as a subpoena issued out of a court of
record.
   B.   The municipal judge, upon the application of the town clerk, may compel
the attendance of witnesses, the production of books, papers, records or
memoranda and the giving of testimony before the town clerk or duly authorized
hearing officers, by an action for contempt, or otherwise, in the same manner
as production of evidence may be compelled before the court. (Ord. 391, 9-17-
2013)
3-6-15: DEPOSITIONS:
The town clerk or any party in an investigation or hearing before the town
clerk may cause the deposition of witnesses residing within or without the
state to be taken in the manner prescribed by law for like depositions in civil
actions in courts of this state and to that end compel the attendance of
witnesses and the production of books, papers, records or memoranda. (Ord. 391,
9-17-2013)
3-6-16: STATUTE OF LIMITATIONS:
   A.   Except as otherwise provided in this section, the taxes for any period,
together with interest thereon and penalties with respect thereto, imposed by
this chapter shall not be assessed, nor shall notice of lien be filed or
distraint warrant be issued or suit for collection be instituted, or any other
action to collect the same be commenced, more than three (3) years after the
date on which the tax was or is payable. Nor shall any lien continue after such
period, except for taxes assessed before the expiration of such three (3) year
period, notice of lien with respect to which has been filed prior to the
expiration of such period.
   B.   In case of false or fraudulent return with intent to evade taxation,
the tax, together with interest and penalties thereon, may be assessed or
proceedings for the collection of such taxes may be commenced at any time.
   C.   Before the expiration of such period of limitation, the taxpayer and
the town clerk may agree in writing to an extension thereof, and the period so
agreed on may be extended by subsequent agreements in writing. (Ord. 391, 9-17-
2013)
CHAPTER 7
RETAIL MARIJUANA ESTABLISHMENTS
SECTION:
3-7-1: Authority
3-7-2: Definitions
3-7-3: Local Licensing Authority Established
3-7-4: Types Of Retail Marijuana Establishment Licenses
3-7-5: Retail Marijuana Establishment License Required
3-7-6: Application Of Colorado Marijuana Code
3-7-7: Application For License
3-7-8: Operating Fee
3-7-9: Standards For Approval Of License, No Hearing Required
3-7-10: Authority To Recommend And Impose Conditions On License
3-7-11: Denial Of License
3-7-12: Appeal Of Denial Or Conditional Approval Of License
3-7-13: Duration Of License, Renewal
3-7-14: Duties Of Licensee
3-7-15: Odor Control Measures Required
3-7-16: Hearing, Suspension, Revocation Of License
3-7-17: Prohibited Locations
3-7-18: Signage
3-7-19: Taxes
3-7-20: Hours Of Operation
3-7-21: Penalties, Injunctive Relief
3-7-22: Implementation
3-7-1: AUTHORITY:
The Board of Trustees hereby finds, determines, and declares that it has the
power to adopt this article pursuant to:
   A.   The Local Government Land Use Control Enabling Act, article 20 of title
40, C.R.S.;
   B.   Part 3 of article 23 of title 31, C.R.S. (concerning municipal zoning
powers);
   C.   Section 31-15-103, C.R.S. (concerning municipal police powers);
   D.   Section 31-15-401, C.R.S. (concerning municipal police powers);
   E.   Section 31-15-501, C.R.S. (concerning municipal authority to regulate
businesses);
   F.   Article 10 of Title 44, C.R.S. (concerning municipal authority to
license and regulate retail marijuana establishments);
   G.   The authority granted to home rule municipalities by Article XX of the
Colorado Constitution;
   H.   Article XVIII Section 16 of the Colorado Constitution; and
   I.   The powers contained in the Home Rule Charter. (Ord. 510, 12-15-2021)
3-7-2: DEFINITIONS:
   A.   As used in this article the following words shall have the following
meanings, unless the context clearly requires otherwise:
 
ADMINISTRATIVE An officer appointed by the Town Manager to conduct hearings on appeals from the
HEARING        suspension, revocation, denial or conditional approval of a license under this
OFFICER:       article.
APPLICANT:     Any person making an application for a license under this article.
APPLICATION:   An application for license submitted pursuant to this article.
CHURCH:        A building or location used for religious services by an established religious
               organization.
CODE:          The Morrison Municipal Code.
COLORADO       Article 10 of Title 44 of the Colorado Revised Statutes and any implementing
MARIJUANA      administrative regulations.
CODE:
               Means and includes:
                  1.   When a licensee violates, does not meet, or fails to comply with any of the
               terms, conditions, or provisions of this article and any rule and regulation
               promulgated pursuant to this article or the Colorado Marijuana Code;
                  2.   When the licensee or applicant has failed to comply with any special terms or
               conditions that were placed on its license at the time the license was issued, or that
               were placed on its license pursuant to an order of the local licensing authority or
               the Colorado Department of Revenue; or
GOOD CAUSE:       3.   When the licensed premises have been operated in a manner that adversely
               affects the public health, welfare, or safety of the immediate neighborhood in which
               the retail marijuana establishment is located. Evidence to support such a finding can
               include:
                     a.   A pattern of disorderly conduct as defined in section 11-54(a)(1) of this
               code within or immediately adjacent to the premises of the licensee;
                     b.   A pattern of drug-related criminal conduct within the licensed premises, or
               in the immediate area surrounding the licensed premises;
                     c.   Criminal conduct directly related to or arising from the operation of the
               retail marijuana establishment.
LICENSE:       A license to operate a retail marijuana establishment issued pursuant to this section.
LICENSED       The location in the Town from which the Licensee will operate.
PREMISES:
LICENSEE:      The person to whom a license has been issued pursuant to this article and the Colorado
               Marijuana Code to operate a business as described in section 44-10-601, C.R.S.
               All parts of the plant of the genus cannabis, whether growing or not; the seeds
               thereof; the resin extracted from any part of such plant; and every compound,
               manufacture, salt, derivative, mixture, or preparation of the plant, its seeds or its
MARIJUANA:     resin, including marijuana concentrate but shall not include industrial hemp, the
               fiber produced from the stalks, oil or cake made from the seeds of the plant,
               sterilized seed of the plant which is incapable of germination, or the weight of any
               other ingredient combined with marijuana to prepare topical or oral administrations,
               food, drink, or other product.
MARIJUANA      Establishments other than private residences, medical marijuana establishments or
CLUBS:         retail marijuana establishments that allow the public, members or guests to consume
               marijuana, medical marijuana-infused products or retail marijuana products on-site.
               A natural person, partnership, association, company, corporation, limited liability
PERSON:        company, organization, or a manager, agent, owner, director, servant, officer, or
               employee thereof.
RETAIL         Marijuana that is cultivated, manufactured, distributed or sold at retail in
MARIJUANA:     accordance with the provisions in Section 16 of Article XVIII of the Colorado
               Constitution and the Colorado Marijuana Code
RETAIL
MARIJUANA      A retail marijuana store
ESTABLISHMENT:
RETAIL         Marijuana products as defined in section 16(2)(k) of Article XVIII of the Colorado
MARIJUANA      Constitution that are produced at a retail marijuana products manufacturer.
PRODUCTS:
RETAIL         A person licensed pursuant to the Colorado Marijuana Code to operate a business as
MARIJUANA      described in section 44-10-601, C.R.S.
STORE:
SCHOOL:        A public or private preschool or a public or private elementary, middle, junior high
               or high school.
STATE          The authority created for the purpose of regulating and controlling the licensing of
LICENSING      the cultivation, manufacture, distribution, sale, and testing of retail marijuana in
AUTHORITY:     this state, pursuant to section 44-10-201, C.R.S.
 
   B.   In addition to the definitions provided in subsection A. of this
section, the other defined terms in Section 16 of Article XVIII of the Colorado
Constitution are incorporated into this section by reference. (Ord. 510, 12-15-
2021)
3-7-3: LOCAL LICENSING AUTHORITY ESTABLISHED:
   A.   There is hereby established a local licensing authority, which shall
have and is vested with the authority to:
      1.   Grant and refuse licenses and approve and deny applications for
renewal and transfer of licenses for the sale, cultivation and manufacture of
retail marijuana and retail marijuana products;
      2.   Promulgate reasonable rules and regulations concerning licenses
issued under this chapter;
      3.   Suspend and revoke licenses issued under this article in the matter
provided by law; and
      4.   Have all of the powers of the local licensing authority as provided
in the Colorado Marijuana Code.
   B.   The Board of Trustees shall serve as the local licensing authority for
any administrative purposes described in subsections A.1., A.2. and A.4. of
this section. An administrative hearing officer shall serve as the local
licensing authority for purposes of hearing any requests for suspension or
revocation described in subsection A.3. (Ord. 510, 12-15-2021)
3-7-4: TYPES OF RETAIL MARIJUANA ESTABLISHMENT LICENSES:
   A.   The local licensing authority may issue only the following type of
retail marijuana establishment licenses:
      1.   Retail marijuana store license.
   B.   The single retail marijuana store license permitted by this Chapter may
be issued only to a retail marijuana store operator which possesses a lease
from the Town of Town-owned property in the MU-CO zone district and which has
also entered into a retail sales tax incentive agreement with the Town for
sharing of retail sales taxes to be generated from the licensed location, for
the purpose of making site improvements to that property in an expedited
manner, subject to all of the conditions of such lease and tax sharing
agreement. (Ord. 510, 12-15-2021; amd. Ord. 526, 12-20-2022))
3-7-5: RETAIL MARIJUANA ESTABLISHMENT LICENSE REQUIRED:
   A.   No person shall operate a retail marijuana establishment within the
Town without a valid and appropriate retail marijuana establishment license
issued in accordance with this article.
   B.   This requirement to obtain the appropriate retail marijuana
establishment license is in addition to the requirement to obtain a business
license pursuant to article II of this chapter and any other license or permit
required by the Town.
   C.   No person shall operate a retail marijuana establishment within the
Town without a valid and appropriate license to operate such establishment
issued by the state licensing authority in accordance with the provisions of
the Colorado Marijuana Code.
   D.   No person may operate a business within the Town concerning the sale,
use, consumption, manufacture of marijuana unless specifically authorized
pursuant to the provisions of this article.
   E.   No marijuana clubs may operate or obtain a business license to operate
within the Town. (Ord. 510, 12-15-2021; amd. Ord. 526, 12-20-2022)
3-7-6: APPLICATION OF COLORADO MARIJUANA CODE:
Except as otherwise provided herein, the local licensing authority shall be
governed by the Colorado Marijuana Code now in effect or subsequently amended.
In the event of a conflict between the provisions in this article and those in
the Colorado Marijuana Code, the more stringent provision shall apply. (Ord.
510, 12-15-2021)
3-7-7: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE:
   A.   A person seeking to obtain a license pursuant to this article shall
file an application with the local licensing authority on a form provided by
the state, and shall include all additional information required by the
Colorado Marijuana Code.
   B.   The local licensing authority is hereby authorized to request any
applicant to provide information that is in addition to the requirements of the
Colorado Marijuana Code if it determines that such information is reasonably
necessary to complete the investigation and review of the application. (Ord.
510, 12-15-2021)
3-7-8: OPERATING FEE:
   A.   An applicant shall pay to the Town a non-refundable operating fee when
the application for a license under this article is filed.
   B.   The licensee shall pay the non-refundable operating fee to the Town
annually along with any application for renewal of a license.
   C.   The purpose of the operating fee is to cover the costs of inspection,
administration and enforcement of retail marijuana establishments. The amount
of the operating fee shall be fixed by the Board of Trustees by motion. (Ord.
510, 12-15-2021)
3-7-9: STANDARDS FOR APPROVAL OF LICENSE, NO HEARING REQUIRED:
   A.   The local licensing authority is authorized to administratively approve
any license under this article so long as the following conditions are met:   
      1.   The application (including any required attachments and submissions)
is complete and signed by the applicant;
      2.   The applicant has paid the operating fee and any other fees required
by this code;
      3.   The application does not contain a material falsehood or
misrepresentation;
      4.    The application complies with all of the requirements of this
article and the Colorado Marijuana Code; and
      5.   The licensing authority has received written approval from the local
law enforcement authority as to the applicant's criminal background.
      6.   The licensing authority has received written approval from the
Planning and Zoning Department that the location and zoning requirements
imposed by this article and Section 10-1E2.A.1. of the Code have been met.
   B.   The local licensing authority may, but is not required to hold a
hearing as permitted by section 44-10-303(3), C.R.S. prior to granting a retail
marijuana establishment license.
   C.   The local licensing authority shall inform the state licensing
authority of approval of an application for a license. (Ord. 510, 12-15-2021)
3-7-10: AUTHORITY TO RECOMMEND AND IMPOSE CONDITIONS ON LICENSE:
   A.   Any Town department shall have the authority to recommend reasonable
terms and conditions on a license as may be necessary to protect the public
health, safety, and welfare, and to obtain compliance with the requirements of
this article and applicable law.
   B.   The local licensing authority is authorized to approve any license
issued under this article subject to such reasonable conditions as required by
the Town.
   C.   In the event an application is conditionally approved, the local
licensing authority shall clearly set forth in writing the conditions of
approval. (Ord. 510, 12-15-2021)
3-7-11: DENIAL OF LICENSE:
The local licensing authority shall deny an application for a license under
this article when the applicant fails to meet all of the standards set forth in
section
3-7-9 of this chapter. (Ord. 510, 12-15-2021)
3-7-12: APPEAL OF DENIAL OR CONDITIONAL APPROVAL OF LICENSE :
   A.   An applicant has the right to appeal the suspension, revocation, denial
or conditional approval of a license under this article.
   B.   The applicant must file a written notice of appeal with the local
licensing authority within fifteen (15) business days after the date of mailing
of the action being appealed.
   C.   Upon notice from the local licensing authority that the applicant has
satisfied the requirement in subsection (b), the Town Manager shall appoint an
administrative hearing officer.
   D.   The applicant shall be provided with not less than ten (10) business
days prior written notice of the appeal hearing to be held by the
administrative hearing officer.
   E.   The burden of proof in an appeal filed under this section shall be on
the applicant.
   F.   If the administrative hearing officer finds by a preponderance of the
evidence that the decision of the local licensing authority was correct, the
administrative hearing officer shall uphold that decision. If the
administrative hearing officer finds by a preponderance of the evidence that
the decision of the local licensing authority was incorrect, the administrative
hearing officer shall reverse or modify the decision and remand the matter back
to the local licensing authority for further action consistent with the hearing
officer's findings and order. The administrative hearing officer may order the
local licensing authority to impose additional conditions on the license issued
or require that the conditions of approval be stricken or modified.
   G.   Any decision made by the administrative hearing officer pursuant to
this section shall be a final decision and may be appealed to the district
court pursuant to Rule 106(a)(4) of the Colorado Rules of Civil Procedure. The
applicant's failure to timely appeal the decision is a waiver of the
applicant's right to contest the denial or conditional approval of the
application. (Ord. 510, 12-15-2021; amd. Ord. 526, 12-20-2022)
3-7-13: DURATION OF LICENSE, RENEWAL:
   A.   Each license issued pursuant to this article shall expire on the first
day of the month one year from the month of issuance, and may be renewed as
provided in this section.
   B.   An application for the renewal of an existing license shall be made to
the local licensing authority as required by the Colorado Marijuana Code. (Ord.
510, 12-15-2021; amd. Ord. 526, 12-20-2022)
3-7-14: DUTIES OF LICENSEE:
Each licensee shall:
   A.   Post the license issued under this article in a conspicuous location on
the licensed premises;
   B.   Comply with all of the terms and conditions of the license;
   C.   Comply with all of the requirements of this article;
   D.   Comply with all other applicable Town ordinances;
   E.   Comply with the Colorado Marijuana Code;
   F.   Comply with all applicable federal laws, rules, or regulations, other
than a federal law or regulation concerning the possession, sale or
distribution of marijuana that conflicts with Article XVIII Section 16 of the
Colorado Constitution;
   G.   Permit inspection of its records and operation by the local licensing
authority for the purpose of determining the licensee's compliance with the
terms and conditions of the license and the Town's tax laws; and
   H.   Permit inspection of the premises by authorized Town officials during
permitted business hours for the purpose of determining compliance with this
article. (Ord. 510, 12-15-2021)
3-7-15: ODOR CONTROL MEASURES REQUIRED:
Each licensee shall operate its licensed premises in a manner that prevents the
escape of odor from marijuana and marijuana products beyond the property line
of the licensed premises.
In addition to constituting cause to suspend or revoke a license pursuant to
Section
3-7-16 hereof, odor from marijuana and marijuana products emanating from a
licensed premises in violation of this Section of such a nature and duration
that substantially annoys, injures or endangers the comfort, health, repose or
safety of the public constitutes a public nuisance and may be abated by the
Town in accordance with Chapter 1 of Title 5 of this Code. (Ord. 510, 12-15-
2021)
3-7-16: HEARING, SUSPENSION, REVOCATION OF LICENSE:
   A.   A license issued pursuant to this article may be suspended or revoked
after a hearing for the following reasons:
      1.   Fraud, misrepresentation, or a false statement of material fact
contained in the license application;
      2.   A violation of any Town ordinance, state, or federal law or
regulation, other than a federal law or regulation concerning the possession,
sale or distribution of marijuana that conflicts with Article XVIII Section 16
of the Colorado Constitution;
      3.   A violation of any of the terms and conditions of the license;
      4.   A violation of any of the provisions of this article; or
      5.    Good cause.
   B.   Request for suspension or revocation, notice of hearing, burden.
      1.   Any authorized Town official may request in writing that a license
issued under this article be suspended or revoked.
      2.   The Town Manager shall appoint an administrative hearing officer to
preside over the hearing on the suspension or revocation of a license.
      3.   The administrative hearing officer shall
         a.   Set a date and time on which to determine whether to revoke or
suspend such license;
         b.   Notify the licensee in writing of the date and time of the
hearing at least ten (10) business days prior to conducting such hearing. Such
notice shall be sent by regular mail postage prepaid. Notice is deemed to have
been given upon mailing;
         c.   Conduct a hearing based on the allegations provided in the
written request. This shall be an informal hearing where no rules of evidence
shall apply. The burden shall be on the Town to prove by a preponderance of the
evidence that the licensee has violated the provisions in subsection 11-404
(a); and
         d.   Provide a written decision to the licensee within thirty (30)
days after the conclusion of the hearing.
   C.   In deciding whether a license should be suspended or revoked, and in
deciding what conditions to impose in the event of a suspension, if any, the
administrative hearing officer shall consider:
      1.   The nature and seriousness of the violation;
      2.   Corrective action, if any, taken by the licensee;
      3.   Prior violation(s), if any, by the licensee;
      4.   The likelihood of recurrence;
      5.   All circumstances surrounding the violation;
      6.   Whether the violation was willful;
      7.   The number of previous violations by the licensee; and
      8.   Previous sanctions, if any, imposed against the licensee.
   D.   In connection with the suspension of a license, the administrative
hearing officer may impose reasonable conditions thereon.
   E.   Any decision made by the administrative hearing officer pursuant to
this section shall be a final decision and may be appealed to the district
court pursuant to Rule 106(a)(4) of the Colorado Rules of Civil Procedure. The
applicant's failure to timely appeal the decision is a waiver of the
applicant's right to contest the decision.
   F.   No fee previously paid by a licensee in connection with the application
shall be refunded if such license is suspended or revoked. (Ord. 510, 12-15-
2021)
3-7-17: PROHIBITED LOCATIONS:
   A.   Except as provided in subsection (b) of this section, no retail
marijuana establishment shall be located at a location that does not conform to
the requirements of this section.
   B.   No retail marijuana store shall be located within one thousand (1,000)
feet of a school, an alcohol or drug treatment facility, or the principal
campus of a college, university, or church, or a residential child care
facility. This limitation will be computed by direct measurement from the
nearest property line of the land used for a school, alcohol or drug treatment
facility, or the principal campus of a college, university, or church, or a
residential child care facility to the nearest portion of the building in which
retail marijuana is to be sold, using a route of direct pedestrian access.
   C.   No retail marijuana store shall be located west of the geologic
formation within the Town known as the Dakota Hogback, defined by the sections
known as Dinosaur Ridge and Mount Glennon, comprised of the geological units
from west to east as the Ralston Creek Formation, Morrison Formation, and
Dakota Group.
   D.   No retail marijuana store shall be located within three quarters (¾) of
a mile of another retail marijuana store. This limitation will be measured
using a straight line from the perimeter of the parcel where a proposed retail
marijuana store will be located. This limitation shall apply to retail
marijuana stores whether they located within or outside of the Town limits.
   E.   This limitation will be measured using a straight line from the
perimeter of the parcel where a proposed retail marijuana store will be
located. This limitation shall apply to retail marijuana stores and medical
marijuana centers whether they are located within or outside of the Town
limits.
   F.   Each retail marijuana establishment shall be operated from a permanent
location. No retail marijuana establishment shall be licensed to operate from a
moveable, mobile, or transitory location.
   G.   The suitability of a location for a retail marijuana establishment
shall be determined at the time of the issuance of the first license for such
establishment. The fact that changes in the neighborhood that occur after the
issuance of the first license might render the site unsuitable for a retail
marijuana establishment under this section shall not be grounds to suspend,
revoke or refuse to renew the license for such establishment so long as the
license for the establishment remains in effect. (Ord. 510, 12-15-2021)
3-7-18: SIGNAGE:
All signage for a retail marijuana establishment shall comply with the
requirements of the Municipal Code and the Colorado Marijuana Code. (Ord. 510,
12-15-2021)
3-7-19: TAXES:
Each licensee shall collect and remit all applicable sales taxes on all retail
marijuana, paraphernalia, and other tangible personal property sold by the
licensee at the retail marijuana establishment according to the provisions of
this code and any regulations issued pursuant thereto. (Ord. 510, 12-15-2021)
3-7-20: HOURS OF OPERATION:
   A.   A retail marijuana store may open no earlier than ten o’clock (10:00)
a.m. and shall close no later than eight o’clock (8:00) p.m., local time, the
same day.
   B.   A retail marijuana establishment may be open seven (7) days a week.
(Ord. 510, 12-15-2021)
3-7-21: PENALTIES, INJUNCTIVE RELIEF:
   A.   It is a misdemeanor offense for any person to violate any provision of
this article. Any person convicted of having violated any provision of this
article shall be punished as set forth in section
1-4-1 of this Code.
   B.   In addition to all other remedies available to the Town under this Code
and by law, the operation of a retail marijuana establishment without a valid
license issued pursuant to this article may be enjoined by the Town in an
action brought in a court of competent jurisdiction. (Ord. 510, 12-15-2021)
3-7-22: IMPLEMENTATION:
This chapter shall take effect and become enforceable only upon the approval by
the registered electors of the Town at the April 5, 2022 regular Town election
of a ballot question approving this ordinance as a referred ordinance under
section 5.3 of the Home Rule Charter In the event such ballot question is not
approved by the registered electors, this article shall not take effect and
shall be deemed repealed. (Ord. 510, 12-15-2021)
CHAPTER 8
ENHANCED SALES TAX INCENTIVE PROGRAM
SECTION:
3-8-1: Purpose
3-8-2: Establishment
3-8-3: Definitions
3-8-4: Applicability
3-8-5: Sharing Of Sales Tax
3-8-6: Effect On Other Taxes
3-8-7: Consideration
3-8-8: Agreement
3-8-9: Non-Liability
3-8-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this Chapter is to encourage the establishment and substantial
expansion of retail sales tax generating businesses within the Town, thereby
stimulating the economy of and within the Town, providing employment for
residents of the Town and others, further expanding the goods available for
purchase and consumption by residents of the Town, and further increasing the
sales tax collected by the Town. Such increased sales tax collections will
enable the Town to provide expanded and improved municipal services to and for
the benefit of the residents of the Town, while at the same time providing
improvements at no cost, or at deferred cost, to the Town and its taxpayers and
residents. (Ord. 538, 9-19-2023)
3-8-2: ESTABLISHMENT:
There is hereby established within the Town an Enhanced Sales Tax Incentive
Program (“ESTIP”). (Ord. 538, 9-19-2023)
3-8-3: DEFINITIONS:
For purposes of this Chapter, the following terms shall have the following
meanings:
Enhanced sales tax means the amount of sales tax collected by the Town over and
above a base amount negotiated by, and agreed upon by, the applicant and the
Town, and which amount is approved by the Board of Trustees, which base amount
shall never be lower than the amount of sales tax collected by the Town at the
property in question in the previous twelve (12) months plus a reasonable and
agreed upon percentage of anticipated increase in sales tax, or, in the case of
a newly established business, an amount of sales tax that could be generated
from the new business without the participation by the applicant in the ESTIP
created hereunder.
OWNER OR PROPRIETOR: The record owner or operator of an individual business,
or, in the case of a shopping center, the owner of the real property upon which
more than one business is operated, provided that said owner (whether an
individual, corporation, partnership or other entity) is the owner or lessor of
the individual businesses operated thereon.
PUBLIC OR PUBLIC-RELATED PURPOSES: Public improvements, including without
limitation streets, sidewalks, curbs, gutters, pedestrian malls, street lights,
drainage facilities, landscaping, statuaries, fountains, identification signs,
traffic safety devices, bicycle paths, off-street parking facilities, benches,
off-site sewer lines, lift stations, and all necessary incidental and
appurtenant structures and improvements, together with the relocation and
improvement of existing utility lines, and any other improvements of a similar
nature that are specifically approved by the Board of Trustees upon finding
that said improvement are public or public-related improvements, and that such
improvements will benefit the economic health of the Town. (Ord. 538, 9-19-
2023)
3-8-4: APPLICABILITY:
Participation in ESTIP shall be based upon approval by the Town, exercising its
administrative discretion in good faith. Any owner or proprietor of a newly
established or proposed retail sales tax generating business location, or the
owner or proprietor of an existing retail sales tax generating business or
location which wishes to expand substantially, may apply to the Town for
inclusion within the ESTIP, provided that the new or expanded business is
reasonably likely to generate enhanced sales tax of at least twenty thousand
dollars ($20,000) in the first year of operation. (Ord. 538, 9-19-2023)
3-8-5: SHARING OF SALES TAX:
   A.   Approval by the Town of an agreement implementing the ESTIP shall
entitle the successful applicant to share in enhanced sales tax derived from
the applicant’s property or business in an amount which shall not, in any
event, exceed fifty percent (50%) of the enhanced sales taxes; provided,
however, that the applicant may use said amounts only for public purposes, such
as those specified herein, and which are expressly approved by the Board of
Trustees at the time of consideration of the application. The time period in
which said enhanced sales taxes may be shared shall not commence until all
public or public-related improvements are completed, and shall be limited by
the Town, in its discretion, to a specified time, or until a specified amount
is reached.
   B.   The uses to which said shared enhanced sales tax may be put by an
applicant shall be strictly limited to those that are public in nature.
   C   The base figure for sales taxes shall be divided into 12 monthly
increments, which increments are subject to agreement between the parties, and
approval by the Town, and which increments shall be reasonably related to the
average monthly performance of the business or property, or similar businesses
in the area (i.e., adjust for seasonal variations). If in any month the agreed-
upon figure is not met by the applicant for said month, no increment shall be
shared until that deficit, and any other cumulative deficit, has been met, so
that at the end of any 12-month cycle, funds in excess of those “enhanced sales
tax” funds agreed to be shared shall not have been shared with any applicant.
(Ord. 538, 9-19-2023)
3-8-6: EFFECT ON OTHER TAXES:
It is an overriding consideration and determination of the Town that existing
sources of Town sales tax revenues shall not be used, impaired, or otherwise
affected by this Chapter. Therefore, the Town Manager or their designee shall
collect and hold all such enhanced sales taxes in a separate account apart from
the sales taxes generated by and collected from the Town, and ensure an
accounting system that accomplishes the purpose of this Section. This Chapter
would not be adopted or implemented except for the provisions of this section.
(Ord. 538, 9-19-2023)
3-8-7: CONSIDERATION:
   A.   An application for inclusion in the ESTIP shall be considered by the
Board of Trustees at a public hearing.
   B.   Approval or denial shall be based upon the following criteria:
      1.   The amount of enhanced sales tax reasonably anticipated to be
derived by the Town through the expanded or new retail sales tax generating
business;
      2.   The public benefits that are or will be provided by the applicant
through public works, public improvements, additional employment for Town
residents or other factors;
      3.   The amount of expenditures that may be deferred by the Town based
upon public improvements that will completed by the applicant;
      4.   The conformance of the applicant’s property or project with the
Town’s comprehensive plan and the Morrison Municipal Code; and
      5.   An agreement in compliance with Section 3-8-8. (Ord. 538, 9-19-2023)
3-8-8: AGREEMENT:
The agreement between the owner and the Town shall contain, at a minimum, the
following provisions:
   A.   A list of those public improvements that justify the applicant’s
approval, and the amount to be spent on said improvements;
   B.   The maximum amount of enhanced sales taxes to be shared, and the
maximum duration of the agreement, it being expressly understood that any such
agreement shall expire and be of no further force and effect upon the
occurrence of the earlier to be reached of the maximum time of the agreement
(whether or not the maximum amount to be shared has been reached) or the
maximum amount to be shared (whether or not the maximum time set forth has
expired);
   C.   A statement that the agreement is personal, and not transferable or
assignable;
   D.   A statement that the agreement shall never constitute a debt or
obligation of the Town within any constitutional or statutory provision;
   E.   The base amount agreed upon by month, and the fact that if, in any
month as specified, sales taxes received from the property do not at least
equal said amount, that there shall be no sharing of funds for said month;
   F.   The base amount shall be agreed upon and shall consider the historic
level of sales at the property in question, or a similar property within the
area in the event of a new business, and a reasonable allowance for increased
sales due to the improvements and upgrades completed as a result of inclusion
within this ESTIP;
   G.   A provision that any enhanced sales taxes subject to sharing shall be
escrowed in the event there is a legal challenge to this ESTIP or the approval
of any application therefore;
   H.   An affirmative statement that the obligations, benefits and provisions
of the agreement may not be assigned in whole or in any part without the
express authorization of the Town, and further that no third party shall be
entitled to rely upon or enforce any provision of it; and
   I.   Any other provisions agreed upon by the parties and approved by the
Board of Trustees. (Ord. 538, 9-19-2023)
3-8-9: NON-LIABILITY:
The Town specifically finds and determines that the creation of this Chapter is
consistent with the Town’s powers as a municipal corporation, and that the
exercise of said powers in the manner set forth herein is in furtherance of the
public health, safety, and welfare. Notwithstanding any provision hereof, the
Town shall never be a joint venturer in any private entity or activity that
participates in this ESTIP, and the Town shall never be liable or responsible
for any debt or obligation of any participant in ESTIP. (Ord. 538, 9-19-2023)
TITLE 4
POLICE REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
GENERAL OFFENSES
SECTION:
4-1-1: Assault
4-1-2: Riot
4-1-3: Defacing Property
4-1-4: Defaced Property
4-1-5: Criminal Trespass On Private Or Public Property
4-1-6: Harassment
4-1-7: Littering
4-1-1: ASSAULT:
   A.   Definition:
   ASSAULT: An unlawful attempt, coupled with a present ability, to commit a
bodily injury on the person of another.
   B.   Prohibited: It shall be unlawful to assault, beat, strike, wound,
imprison or inflict violence on the person of another.
   C.   Penalty: Any person violating any of the provisions of this section
shall, upon being found guilty of such violation be subject to penalty as
provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 95, 1-7-1990; amd. Ord. 261, 4-16-1996)
4-1-2: RIOT:
Any person who shall cause, engage in, instigate, or encourage any riot, rout,
affray, or fight in the town shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon
conviction thereof, shall be subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 50, 5-8-1957; amd. Ord. 261, 4-16-1996)
4-1-3: DEFACING PROPERTY:
   A.   Definitions: The following definitions shall apply to this chapter:
   GRAFFITI:   The defacing of public or private property by any person by
means of painting, drawing, writing, etching or carving with paint, spray
paint, ink, knife or any similar method without the prior consent of the
property owner.
   OWNER AND PROPERTY OWNER:   Any person owning, leasing, occupying or having
control or possession of any property in the town.
   B.   Damaging Or Defacing Of Property Unlawful: It is unlawful for any
person to knowingly damage, deface or cause, aid in, or permit the defacing of
public or private property without the prior consent of the owner by painting,
drawing, writing, marking, etching, carving, scratching or any other
unauthorized marking by use of paint, spray paint, ink, knife or by any other
method of defacement.
   C.   Penalty: Any person convicted of defacing property may be ordered by
the court to perform community service which may include personally making
repairs to any property damaged or properties similarly damaged with the
consent of the property owner. A person who defaces property shall be subject
to the maximum penalties established in section
1-4-1 of this code. The minimum penalty shall be as follows:
 
First offense               $250.00
Second offense              400.00
Third or subsequent offense 650.00
 
   D.   Civil Action: Nothing herein shall prevent the property owner or the
town from pursuing a civil action for damages against a violator, and if a
minor, the parents of a violator.
(Ord. 360, 4-7-2009; amd. Ord. 547, 6-18-2024)
4-1-4: DEFACED PROPERTY:
   A.   Declaration Of Public Nuisance: All property defaced by graffiti which
is visible to public view is declared to be a public nuisance and in the
interest of public health, safety, morals and general welfare, shall be abated
as set forth in this section.
   B.   Concurrent Remedies: The abatement procedures set forth in this section
for defaced property shall not be exclusive and shall not restrict the town
from concurrently enforcing other town ordinances, or pursuing any other remedy
provided by law. (Ord. 360, 4-7-2009)
   C.   Enforcement: The Town Administrator, or his or her designee, shall be
responsible for enforcement of this section. After notice of the violation to
the property owner, as set out in subsection D of this section, the Town
Administrator is authorized to commence the abatement procedure set out herein
and pursue any other remedy provided by law. (Ord. 441, 2-7-2017)
   D.   Notification Of Nuisance:
      1.   The owner of any property defaced by graffiti, which is located
within this Municipality, shall be given written notice to abate the public
nuisance on his property by removal or eradication of the graffiti within
fifteen (15) days after service of the notice. Such notice shall be by personal
service to the owner, or by posting the notice on the defaced property together
with written notice mailed to the owner by first class mail, postage prepaid.
      2.   The notice to the property owner shall direct the owner to remove or
eradicate the graffiti from the property within fifteen (15) days after service
of the notice. The notice shall contain:
         a.   The location of and a description of the violation;
         b.   A demand that the owner remove or eradicate the graffiti from the
property within fifteen (15) days after service of the notice;
         c.   A statement that the owner may voluntarily agree to immediate
removal or eradication of the graffiti by the Town with the costs assessed to
the property owner;
         d.   A statement that the owner's failure or refusal to remove or
eradicate the graffiti may result in abatement by the Town, in addition to any
other available remedies and the costs of such abatement, together with an
additional administrative fee of at least one hundred dollars ($100.00) for
inspection and incidental costs, may be assessed as a lien against the property
pursuant to the terms of this section, and collected in the same manner as Real
Estate Taxes against the property;
         e.   A statement that if the costs of abatement plus the
administrative fee for inspection and incidental costs are not paid to the Town
within thirty (30) days after notice to the property owner of costs owed to the
Town, the amount owed will be certified to the County Treasurer for collection
as an assessment lien; and (Ord. 360, 4-7-2009)
         f.   A statement that the owner may make written demand to the Town
Administrator for a hearing before the Town Administrator or his or her
designee, provided the written demand is made within ten (10) days after
service of the notice, and provided the written demand for a hearing contains
the owner's current address and a telephone number where he can be reached
between the hours of eight o'clock (8:00) A.M. and five o'clock (5:00) P.M.,
Monday through Friday. Written demand for a hearing shall be sent to the Town
Administrator, Town of Morrison, 321 Highway 8, Morrison, CO 80465.
   E.   Abatement Procedure: If the owner of the property defaced by graffiti
fails or refuses to remove or eradicate the graffiti as directed within the
time permitted, and has not made written demand for an administrative abatement
hearing, the Town Administrator shall then cause the graffiti to be removed or
eradicated by Town employees or a private contractor.
   F.   Administrative Hearing:
      1.   Upon receipt of a written demand by the property owner for an
administrative abatement hearing, the Town Administrator shall hold a hearing
within seven (7) days after receipt of the demand. Notice of the hearing date
and location shall be mailed to the owner at the address listed in the written
demand.
      2.   The Town Administrator or his or her designee shall within three (3)
days after the hearing issue a written order stating whether a violation exists
on the property. If it is found that a violation exists and the graffiti shall
be removed, the order shall direct the owner of the property to remove or
eradicate the graffiti. The written order shall be mailed to the property owner
by first class mail, postage prepaid.
      3.   If an order issued by the Town Administrator or his or her designee
directing an owner to remove or eradicate graffiti has not been complied with
within fifteen (15) days after its issuance, the Town Administrator or his or
her designee may cause the graffiti to be removed or eradicated by Town
employees or private contractor and all costs associated with such removal or
eradication shall be charged to the owner of the property.
      4.   The order of the Town Administrator or his or her designee shall be
subject to review by court action, in accordance with Rule 106 of the Colorado
Rules of Civil Procedure. The Town shall be considered to be a party to every
proceeding before the Town Administrator or his or her designee.
      5.   A record of hearings shall be kept, whether by electronic
transcription, secretarial minutes or otherwise and such records shall be kept
in the custody of the Town Clerk for a period of one (1) year. The costs of any
transcription shall be paid by the person or entity requesting the
transcription. (Ord. 443, 4-4-2017)
   G.   Costs And Charges:
      1.   The property owner shall be liable for and pay and bear all costs
and expenses of the graffiti removal or eradication, including reasonable
attorney fees for costs of collection, which costs and expenses may be
collected by the Town in any action at law, referred for collection by the Town
Attorney on a contingency basis, in his discretion, collected in connection
with an action to abate a nuisance, or assessed against the property as
hereinafter provided. (Ord. 360, 4-7-2009)
      2.   If the Town Administrator or his or her designee does not receive
payment within thirty (30) days following the mailing of a demand for payment,
the Town Administrator or his or her designee may certify to the County
Treasurer, pursuant to Colorado Revised Statutes 31-20-105 and 106 the whole
cost of such work, including a fee not to exceed two hundred dollars ($200.00)
which is the total amount owing for inspection costs, administrative costs and
other incidental costs in connection therewith. The County Treasurer shall
collect the assessment in the same manner as other taxes are collected. (Ord.
443, 4-4-2017)
      3.   Each such assessment shall be a lien against each lot or tract of
land until paid and shall have priority over other liens except general taxes
and prior special assessments. (Ord. 360, 4-7-2009)
4-1-5: CRIMINAL TRESPASS ON PRIVATE OR PUBLIC PROPERTY:
   A.   Definitions: The following definitions shall apply to this section:
 
                 Real property, buildings, and other improvements thereon, and
PREMISES:        the stream banks and beds of any non-navigable freshwater
                 stream flowing through such property.
                 Any announcement or communication that is produced in whole or
                 in part by the construction, erection, affixing, or placing of
SIGN OR SIGNAGE: a placard or structure or produced by painting on or posting
                 or placing any printed, lettered, pictured, figured, or
                 colored material on any building, structure, or surface.
 
   B.   Trespassing Unlawful: It is unlawful for any person to unlawfully enter
or to remain in or upon real property, buildings and/or other improvements,
stream banks and beds of any non-navigable freshwater stream flowing through,
or banks or beds of any lake, pond or other body of water situate upon real
property, belonging to a person or entity other than the person so entering or
remaining thereupon.
   C.   Unlawful Remaining: It shall be unlawful for any person to remain in or
upon the premises of another after permission, license, or authority has been
terminated or revoked and the person has been notified of the termination or
revocation verbally, through signage, or otherwise in writing.
   D.   Failure to Obey No Trespassing Sign - Posted Premises: It shall be
unlawful for any person to enter or remain in or upon the premises of another
contrary to, or in violation of, any sign limiting, restricting, or prohibiting
access to, use of, or occupation of the premises.
      1.   Posting of a No Trespassing Sign: A sign that is posted or placed at
the entry to or upon a premises that gives notice of a limitation, restriction,
or prohibition on the access to, use of, or occupation of the premises shall be
deemed a no trespassing sign. Examples of no trespassing signs that give notice
of a limitation, restriction, or prohibition on the access to, use of, or
occupation of a premises include, but are not limited to, signs that read
“parking lot open only to customers,” “area closed,” “area closed to the public
between 2:00 a.m. and 6:00 a.m.,” “area closed except to residents and
authorized guests,” “keep out,” “no overnight occupancy,” “no trespassing,”
“private property -- keep out,” or that contain similar language.
      2.   No Trespassing Sign Constitutes Prima Facie Evidence of Notice: The
posting or placement of a no trespassing sign that is reasonably calculated to
provide notice to an ordinarily observant person entering in or upon the
premises shall be prima facie evidence that notice was sufficient. The
prosecution is not required to prove that a no trespassing sign was visible
from every location in, upon, or about the premises at the time of the alleged
violation.
   E.   Penalty: Criminal trespass shall be punishable by a fine or
imprisonment not to exceed the limits established in section
1-4-1  of this Code. (Ord. 529, 4-18-2023)
4-1-6: HARASSMENT:
   A.   It is unlawful to commit harassment. A person commits harassment if,
with intent to harass, annoy or alarm any other person, the person:
      1.   Strikes, shoves, kicks or otherwise touches a person or subjects him
or her to physical contact;
      2.   In a public place directs obscene language or communications or
makes an obscene gesture to or at another person;
      3.   Follows a person in or about a public place;
      4.   Initiates communication with a person, anonymously or otherwise, by
telephone, telephone network, data network, text message, instant message,
computer, computer network or computer system or any other digital or
electronic medium, in a manner intended to threaten bodily injury or property
damage, or makes any comment, request, suggestion or proposal by telephone,
computer, computer network or computer system or other digital or electronic
medium which is obscene and unwanted.
      5.   Makes a telephone call or causes a telephone to ring repeatedly,
whether or not a conversation ensues, with no purpose of legitimate
conversation;
      6.   Makes repeated communications at inconvenient hours that invade the
privacy of another and interfere in the use and enjoyment of another's home or
private residence or other private property; or
      7.   Repeatedly insults, taunts, challenges or makes communications in
offensively coarse language to another in a manner likely to provoke a violent
or disorderly response.
   B.   As used in this Section, unless the context otherwise requires, obscene
means a patently offensive description of sexual acts or solicitation to commit
sexual acts, whether or not the sexual acts are normal or perverted, actual or
simulated, including masturbation, cunnilingus, fellatio, anilingus or
excretory functions.
   C.   Any act prohibited by Paragraph (A)(4) or (A)(S) hereof may be deemed
to have occurred or to have been committed at the place at which the telephone
call, electronic mail or other electronic or digital communication was either
made or received.
(Ord. 530, 4-18-2023)
4-1-7: LITTERING:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person to deposit, throw, or leave any
litter on any public or private property or in any waters.
   B.   It shall be an affirmative defense, that:
      1.   Such property is an area designated by law for the disposal of such
material and the person is authorized by proper public authority to so use the
property;
      2.   The litter is placed in a receptacle or container installed on such
property for that purpose; or
      3.   Such person is the owner or occupant in lawful possession of such
property.
   C.   Litter as used in this section, means all garbage, rubbish, waste
material, trash, debris, or other foreign substances, solid or liquid, of every
form, size, kind and description.
   D.   Whenever litter is thrown, deposited, dropped or dumped from any motor
vehicle in violation of this section, the operator of said motor vehicle is
presumed to have caused or permitted the litter to be so thrown, deposited,
dropped or dumped therefrom.
(Ord. 547, 6-18-2024)
CHAPTER 2
ANIMAL CONTROL REGULATIONS
SECTION:
4-2-1: Definitions
4-2-2: Duties Of Animal Control Officer
4-2-3: Rabies Control; Immunization And Confinement
4-2-4: Running At Large
4-2-5: Impoundment Procedures And Fees
4-2-6: Disposition Of Wild Animals
4-2-7: Animals Prohibited From Injuring Property
4-2-8: Confinement Of Certain Animals
4-2-9: Cruelty To And Neglect Of Animals
4-2-10: Poisoning Of Animals
4-2-11: Vehicular Accidents Involving Animals
4-2-12: Death Of Animals
4-2-13: Barking Dogs
4-2-14: Vicious Animals
4-2-15: Guard Dogs
4-2-16: Trapping Animals
4-2-17: Redemption Of Fees
4-2-18: Enforcement
4-2-19: Keeping Of Chickens
4-2-20: Penalties
4-2-21: Prosecution For Violations
4-2-1: DEFINITIONS:
The following definitions shall be used in interpreting this chapter:
   ANIMAL: Any live vertebrate creature, domestic or wild.
   ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER: Any Jefferson County sheriff's department officers,
Jefferson County animal control officer, Morrison police officer, Morrison
public works employee and/or anyone so appointed by the board of trustees to
enforce this chapter.
   ANIMAL SHELTER: Jefferson County animal shelter or such other facility as
may be designated by the board or police chief as the facility for the boarding
and disposition of any animal placed in custody for violation of this chapter.
   DOG: Any member of the species Canis familiaris, regardless of sex.
   GUARD DOG: Any dog placed within an enclosure for the protection of persons
or property by attacking or threatening to attack any person found within the
enclosure patrolled by the dog.
   HARBOR: The act of keeping or caring for an animal or providing premises to
which the animal returns for food, shelter or care.
   HUMANE TRAPS: Box type live traps which do not cause bodily harm to the
animal intended to be captured or any other animal or person coming in contact
with such trap.
   OWNER: Any person over eighteen (18) years of age who has right of property
in an animal or who harbors such animal or allows such animal to remain about
his premises. The parent, legal guardian or custodian of any child under the
age of eighteen (18) years who owns, keeps, harbors or has custody of an animal
shall be deemed to be the owner of such animal.
   RUNNING AT LARGE: Off the premises of the owner, the owner's agent, servant
or competent member of his family, not restrained by means of a leash, cord or
chain, not more than ten feet (10') in length, which is attached to the dog and
held by the owner; except, that for the purposes of this definition, the
"premises of the owner" shall not include common areas of residential homes,
apartment buildings; and any dog not in the effective control of its owner upon
the common area of a residential home or apartment building or the grounds
thereof, shall be deemed to be running at large.
   VICIOUS ANIMAL: Any animal which, at any place within the town, makes an
attack upon a person or other animal or approaches any person in an apparent
attitude of attack.
   WILD ANIMAL: Includes all species of animals which exist in their natural
unconfined state and are usually not domesticated. (Ord. 221, 3-20-1990; amd.
Ord. 417, 4-7-2015)
4-2-2: DUTIES OF ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER:
   A.   The animal control officer shall have the duty and power to enforce all
sections of this chapter.
   B.   It shall be the duty of the animal control officer to go upon private
property to capture any animal to be impounded for violation of this chapter.
(Ord. 221, 3-20-1990)
4-2-3: RABIES CONTROL; IMMUNIZATION AND CONFINEMENT:
   A.   Vaccination Required: All dogs and cats over the age of four (4) months
shall be inoculated by a licensed veterinarian or antirabies clinic against
rabies. Such inoculation shall be given at least once each year.
   B.   Tags To Be Worn: Every owner shall maintain upon each dog a collar or
harness to which its rabies tag shall be attached.
   C.   Confinement Of Animals Which Have Bitten Persons: The owner of any
domesticated animal that has bitten any person so as to cause an abrasion of
the skin shall immediately advise the animal control officer of the fact.
   D.   Owners Required To Produce Animals Which Have Bitten Persons: The owner
of any animal that has been reported as having inflicted a bite on any person
shall, on demand of the animal control officer, produce said animal for
examination and confinement. (Ord. 221, 3-20-1990)
4-2-4: RUNNING AT LARGE:
   A.   Off Owner's Premises: It shall be unlawful for the owner having control
of any animal to permit the same to run or go or be at large on any street or
public space within the town, or upon the premises of any other person or
common areas without permission of such other persons.
   B.   Injured Animal: Animals injured on public property while running at
large shall be removed by the animal control officer and given adequate
veterinary medical treatment if deemed necessary by the officer, pending
notification of the owner. The owner of such animals shall be liable for all
veterinary expenses and impoundment fees.
   C.   Death Of Animal: If any animal dies while running at large on public
property, the owner shall be liable for disposal fees established by the animal
shelter in addition to penalties for violations of this chapter. (Ord. 221, 3-
20-1990)
4-2-5: IMPOUNDMENT PROCEDURES AND FEES:
   A.   Notice Given To Owner: The animal shelter or the animal control officer
shall make a reasonable effort to ascertain ownership of any impounded animal
and shall notify such owner as soon as possible after impoundment.
   B.   Fees For Impoundment: Any animal impounded under the provisions of this
chapter shall not be released by the animal shelter until the owner shall have
paid all fees and charges related to the impoundment, including impoundment and
boarding fees as established from time to time by the animal shelter, any
reasonable veterinary fees and any fees incurred by the town in apprehending,
detaining or caring for such animal.
   C.   Disposition Of Unclaimed Animals:
      1.   Impounded animals remaining unclaimed after five (5) days may be
disposed of at the sole discretion of the animal shelter.
      2.   Failure of the owner of any impounded animal to claim such animal
from the animal shelter within five (5) days does not relieve such owner of
liability for payment of impoundment, board, veterinary, euthanasia and/or
disposal fees as established by the animal shelter. (Ord. 221, 3-20-1990)
4-2-6: DISPOSITION OF WILD ANIMALS:
Animal control officers are hereby authorized to apprehend any wild animals
that may be at large within the Town. Such wild animal may be impounded,
released in wild areas outside the Town or destroyed as the animal control
officer, in his discretion, shall determine, subject to applicable provisions
of the laws of the State. (Ord. 221, 3-20-1990)
4-2-7: ANIMALS PROHIBITED FROM INJURING PROPERTY:
   A.   Prohibited Acts: It shall be unlawful for the owner or custodian of any
animal or for any person who keeps any animal to permit said animal, with or
without the direct knowledge of that owner or person, to destroy, damage or
injure any shrubbery, plants, flowers, grass, lawn, fence, fence gates or
posts, structure, part of any structure, motor vehicle or anything whatsoever
upon any private property owned or occupied by a person other than the owner or
the keeper of such animal. Any animal permitted to engage in the activities
prohibited by this Section may be impounded as provided in Section
4-2-5 of this Chapter and the owner or keeper of such animal shall be subject
to the provisions of subsections
 4-2-5B and C of this Chapter.
   B.   Right Of Property Owner: Any animal running at large, found causing
damage to property as described in subsection A herein, or found trespassing
and creating a nuisance upon such property, may be humanely restrained by the
owner or occupant of such property or by such owner's or occupant's agent, for
a reasonable time, during which time such owner, occupant or agent shall notify
animal control of his possession of the animal and request the impoundment of
the animal subject to the provision of subsection
 4-2-5A hereof; or notify the owner or keeper of his possession of the animal
and release the animal to the owner or keeper; or release the animal. (Ord.
221, 3-20-1990)
4-2-8: CONFINEMENT OF CERTAIN ANIMALS:
Any unspayed female animal in the state of estrus (heat) shall be confined
during such period of time in a house, building or secured enclosure, and said
area of enclosure shall be so constructed that no other animal or animals may
gain access to the confined animal. The animal control officer shall order any
unspayed female that is in the state of estrus (heat) and that is not properly
confined, or any such animal that is creating a neighborhood nuisance, to be
removed to a boarding kennel, to a veterinary hospital or to the animal
shelter. All expenses incurred as a result of the confinement shall be paid by
the owner. The owner of an animal removed to the animal shelter shall be
charged at the rate established from time to time by the animal shelter for
routine confinement. Failure to comply with the order of the animal control
officer shall be a violation of this Chapter, and the animal will then be
impounded as prescribed in this Chapter, subject to fines and charges as
directed. (Ord. 221, 3-20-1990)
4-2-9: CRUELTY TO AND NEGLECT OF ANIMALS:
   A.   Cruelty: It shall be unlawful for any person to commit or cause to be
committed any intentional act of cruelty, abandonment, harassment or torture to
any animal.
   B.   Neglect: It shall be unlawful for the owner, possessor or keeper of any
animal to deprive such animal of adequate and wholesome food and water,
protection from the elements, opportunity for exercise, or adequate veterinary
care, or otherwise neglect such animal in such a manner as to endanger its
health or cause it to suffer. (Ord. 221, 3-20-1990)
4-2-10: POISONING OF ANIMALS:
It shall be unlawful for any person intentionally to poison any domesticated
animal without legal authority or to distribute or set out poison in any manner
whatsoever with the intent of poisoning any domesticated animal. (Ord. 221, 3-
20-1990)
4-2-11: VEHICULAR ACCIDENTS INVOLVING ANIMALS:
Any person who, as the operator of a motor vehicle, strikes any animal shall
stop at once and shall immediately report such injury or death to the owner of
such animal. In the event the owner cannot be ascertained and located, the
operator shall at once report the accident to an animal control officer. (Ord.
221, 3-20-1990)
4-2-12: DEATH OF ANIMALS:
All animals which die shall be disposed of by the owners or keepers within
twenty four (24) hours by burial, incineration in a facility approved by the
animal control officer, by rendering, or by other lawful means approved by an
animal control officer. (Ord. 221, 3-20-1990)
4-2-13: BARKING DOGS:
It shall be unlawful for any owner, possessor or keeper of any dog to permit
such dog, by loud and persistent or habitual barking, howling or yelping, to
disturb any person or neighborhood, and the same is hereby declared to be a
public nuisance. (Ord. 221, 3-20-1990)
4-2-14: VICIOUS ANIMALS:
No one shall keep, possess or harbor a vicious animal within the town.
Impoundment of animals whose owners have been cited for violations of this
section shall be at the discretion of the animal control officer. If the animal
presents a clear and present danger to the public health or safety, it shall be
the duty of the animal control officer or his agent to impound such animal.
(Ord. 221, 3-20-1990)
4-2-15: GUARD DOGS:
It is unlawful to place or maintain guard dogs in any area for the protection
of persons or property unless the following conditions are met:
   A.   Confinement Required: The dogs shall be confined to an enclosed area
adequate to ensure that they will not escape; and
   B.   Signs Displayed: Warning signs shall be conspicuously posted indicating
the presence of guard dogs and such signs shall plainly show a telephone number
where some person responsible for controlling the guard dogs can be reached at
all times. (Ord. 221, 3-20-1990)
4-2-16: TRAPPING ANIMALS:
   A.   Humane Trap Lawful: When deemed necessary by police officers or the
animal control officer for the health, safety and welfare of the residents of
the town, such officers and/or their agents may place a humane trap on the
property of a resident of the town when the resident requests such trap for the
purpose of capturing any wild or pet animal creating a nuisance in the town.
   B.   Authority To Subdue/Destroy: Animal control officers are authorized to
use any tranquilizer guns, firearms, humane traps or other suitable devices to
subdue or destroy any animal that is deemed by the animal control officer, in
his discretion, to be a danger to itself or to the public health and safety.
   C.   Unlawful Traps: It shall be unlawful for any person to set or cause to
be set within the town any steel jaw leg hold trap, snare or any trap other
than a humane trap, as defined, for the purpose of capturing any animal whether
wild or domestic. (Ord. 221, 3-20-1990)
4-2-17: REDEMPTION OF FEES:
   A.   Reimbursement For Impound Expenses: The town shall be reimbursed by the
owner for the costs of apprehending, detaining or caring for animals impounded
when the owner of such animal can be identified. The owner shall comply with
the requirements of subsection
 4-2-5C of this chapter.
   B.   Reimbursement For Administrative Costs: Any costs related to the
administration and enforcement of this chapter shall be borne by the owner of
the animal if the owner is identified. (Ord. 221, 3-20-1990)
4-2-18: ENFORCEMENT:
The board of trustees is hereby authorized to enter into arrangement with other
governmental bodies or persons to facilitate the implementation of this
chapter. (Ord. 221, 3-20-1990)
4-2-19: KEEPING OF CHICKENS:
Except in A (agriculture) district where animal husbandry is allowed, the
keeping of chicken roosters or more than four (4) chicken hens is prohibited.
Up to four (4) chicken hens may be kept per parcel of property in any
residential zone district subject to the following requirements:
   A.   The chicken hens must be provided with a covered, predator resistant
chicken house that is properly ventilated, designed to be easily accessed,
cleaned and maintained, and at least eight (8) square feet per chicken in size
but no larger than six feet (6') in height.
   B.   During daylight hours, the chicken hens must have access to the chicken
house and also have access to an outdoor enclosure of not less than six (6)
square feet per chicken, that is adequately fenced to protect them from
predators. No free roaming chickens are permitted.
   C.   The chicken hens must be further protected from predators by being
closed in the chicken house from dusk to dawn.
   D.   Neither the chicken house nor the outdoor enclosure may be located less
than fifteen feet (15') from any abutting property line. No chickens are
allowed in the front yard setback.
   E.   The owner shall regularly and properly dispose of all waste to
discourage predators, rodents and insects, and to control odor.
   F.   All chicken feed shall be stored in a garage or accessory structure in
tightfitting rodentproof or metal containers.
   G.   No visible slaughtering of chickens on the property is permitted. (Ord.
412, 9-2-2014)
4-2-20: PENALTIES:
   A.   General Penalty: A person or persons violating any of the provisions of
this chapter shall be subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 221, 3-20-1990; amd. Ord. 261, 4-16-1996; Ord. 412,
9-2-2014)
   B.   Recovery Of Costs: In addition to any penalties set forth in this
chapter, any person violating any provisions of this chapter shall pay all
reasonable costs, fees and expenses incurred by the town as a result of such
violation.
   C.   Amounts Set: The board of trustees has the authority to establish by
resolution a schedule of fines and fees pertaining to this chapter. (Ord. 221,
3-20-1990; amd. Ord. 412, 9-2-2014)
4-2-21: PROSECUTION FOR VIOLATIONS:
   A.   For the purpose of prosecution for violations of any section of this
chapter, it shall not be necessary in order to obtain a conviction to prove
notice on the part of the owner of the animal in question that said animal was
violating any of the sections of this chapter at the time and place charged, it
being the purpose of this section to impose strict liability upon the owner of
any animal.
   B.   Each separate day or any portion thereof during which such violation of
this chapter occurs or continues shall constitute a separate offense and, upon
conviction thereof, shall be punishable as hereinabove provided.
(Ord. 221, 3-20-1990; amd. Ord. 412, 9-2-2014)
TITLE 5
HEALTH AND SAFETY
CHAPTER 1
ABATEMENT OF NUISANCES
SECTION:
5-1-1: Definitions
5-1-2: Unlawful Condition On Private Property; Responsibility
5-1-3: Motor Vehicle Parking
5-1-4: Unlawful Condition Of Right Of Way
5-1-5: Town Abatement
5-1-6: Emergency Abatement
5-1-7: Recovery Of Expense Of Abatement
5-1-8: Violations And Penalty
5-1-1: DEFINITIONS:
   JUNK: Iron, brass, copper, tin, lead or other base metals; ropes, rags,
fibers or fabrics; old bottles or other glass; rubber or rubber products;
machinery, motor vehicle parts, inoperable/unlicensed trailers and inoperable/
unlicensed motor vehicles as defined herein; tools, appliances, fixtures,
lumber, unstacked firewood, utensils, cartons, containers, pipe and pipe
fittings, conduit and conduit fittings; wastepaper; or other waste or discarded
goods.
      Inoperable Motor Vehicle: A motor vehicle which is not capable in its
present condition of being promptly started and driven under its own power.
      Inoperable/Unlicensed Motor Vehicle: A motor vehicle which is inoperable,
or does not have a current license plate, or which lacks one or more of the
following items which is otherwise standard factory equipment on any particular
vehicle model:
         Door
         Fender
         Headlamp
         Muffler
         Properly inflated tire
         Side or rear window
         Wheel
         Windshield
      Inoperable/Unlicensed Trailer: A trailer which is inoperable due to a
flat tire, lack of a wheel, lack of structural integrity, lack of a current
license plate, or other similar reasons which render it inoperable.
   NUISANCE: A substance, act, occupation, condition or use of property which
is of such nature and continues for such length of time as to:
   A.   Substantially annoy, injure or endanger the comfort, health, repose or
safety of the public; or
   B.   In any way render the public insecure in life or in the use of
property; or
   C.   Unlawfully and substantially interfere with, obstruct or tend to
obstruct or render dangerous for passage any street, alley, highway or other
public way; or
   D.   Constitute a failure to maintain detention ponds, drainageways,
landscaping, lighting, trash enclosures, signage, retaining walls, irrigation
systems, screening, fencing, parking lots, private driveways and streets and
other conditions of private property in accordance with the provisions of a
rezoning, plat, official development plan, fencing or landscaping plan, site
plan, design standards, permit, or any other land development document approved
by the town.
In all cases where no provision is made defining nuisances and how the same may
be removed, abated or prevented, in addition to what may be declared such
herein, those offenses which are known to the common law of the land and
statutes of Colorado as nuisances may, in case the same exist within the town,
be treated as such and proceeded against as provided in this chapter, or in
accordance with any other provision of law.
   PERSON: Any natural person, firm, association, joint venture, joint stock
company, partnership, organization, club, company, corporation, business trust,
or any of their managers, officers or employees.
   PUBLIC VIEW: An observation from any location exterior to the property.
   RUBBISH: Includes, but is not limited to, all solid and liquid waste and
litter, whether combustible or noncombustible, and includes, but is not limited
to, ashes, cans, paper, rags, fiber, refuse, fabric, wrappings, cigarettes,
cardboard, yard clippings, leaves, dead plant material, branches, wood, waste
building materials, glass, crockery, abandoned or unsafe household furnishings
and appliances, discarded clothes or wearing apparel.
   STORAGE: Maintaining or allowing an item to remain unused or unmoved on the
property for ten (10) days. (Ord. 364, 5-5-2009)
5-1-2: UNLAWFUL CONDITION ON PRIVATE PROPERTY; RESPONSIBILITY:
It is unlawful for any person having or being entitled to the possession of any
real estate or leasehold, residence, apartment building, tenement, store,
building or premises, commercial or noncommercial, within the town, or any part
thereof, to permit or allow:
   A.   The existence or storage of junk or rubbish or a nuisance upon any such
premises, or part thereof, or on the sidewalk or the alleys abutting such
premises, except as otherwise provided in this section.
   B.   Notwithstanding anything to the contrary, noxious plants or designated
undesirable plants as defined in section 35-5.5-101 et seq., 14 Colorado
Revised Statutes (1984) shall be mowed to a height no greater than six inches
(6") if located within one hundred feet (100') of a habitable structure or
twelve inches (12") if located farther than one hundred feet (100') from a
habitable structure. (Ord. 364, 5-5-2009)
5-1-3: MOTOR VEHICLE PARKING:
   A.   Parking Or Storage Of Inoperable Or Unlicensed Motor Vehicles: It shall
be unlawful to park or store inoperable or unlicensed motor vehicles anywhere
in the town except on premises zoned and licensed to allow the maintenance or
storage of inoperable or unlicensed vehicles and in compliance with such zoning
or license or are fully enclosed buildings made for the express purpose of
covering a motor vehicle. Any storage or parking areas shall be kept free of
weeds, rubbish, and other waste items.
   B.   Parking Or Storage Of Inoperable/Unlicensed Trailers: Inoperable/
unlicensed trailers shall not be stored or parked on private property except in
fully enclosed buildings or unless otherwise allowed by applicable ordinance of
the town.
   C.   Storage In Buildings: This section shall not apply to enclosed
structures or as otherwise provided by law. (Ord. 364, 5-5-2009)
5-1-4: UNLAWFUL CONDITION OF RIGHT OF WAY:
It shall be the responsibility of the owner, agent, or lessee of any real
property abutting a public right of way to provide landscape maintenance
including, but not limited to, mowing of all right of way area between the
property line and the curb line or edge of roadway or right of way and trimming
of vegetation in said area so there is no obstruction of view of traffic. (Ord.
364, 5-5-2009)
5-1-5: TOWN ABATEMENT:
   A.   Notice To Abate: The town administrator, upon receipt of a verified
complaint that a nuisance exists on public or private property in the town, may
in the exercise of his/her discretion, notify the owner, lessee, tenant or
occupant (hereinafter, "responsible party") in writing, requesting the
responsible party to voluntarily remove and abate the described nuisance. In
the event the nuisance is not voluntarily abated, service of a notice of
violation by the town administrator shall be considered service of a notice to
abate and the town may begin the abatement process. For any nuisance which does
not threaten imminent danger of damage or injury, and for which a discretionary
notice to abate has been issued, the reasonable time for abatement shall not
exceed seven (7) days unless it appears from the facts and circumstances that
compliance could not reasonably be made within seven (7) days or that a good
faith attempt at compliance is being made.
   B.   Service Of Notice: If written notice to abate is given, it shall be
served by:
      1.   Personally delivering a copy of the notice to a responsible party
described in the notice; or
      2.   Mailing a copy of the notice by first class or certified mail,
return receipt requested, to the last known address of a responsible party as
reflected in the county real estate records; or
      3.   Posting a copy of the notice in a conspicuous place at the site of
the nuisance.
   C.   Abatement Order: Upon the expiration of the period of notice, or at any
time thereafter, if the nuisance has not been abated on the property described
in such notice, the town administrator may apply to the municipal court for an
abatement order, as follows:
      1.   The application shall be accompanied by an affidavit affirming that
the town has complied with the notice requirements of subsection B of this
section and that the owner has failed to abate the identified nuisance upon the
property.
      2.   The town shall give notice to the responsible party of its
application for the abatement order in the same manner as provided above for
service of the original notice to abate. The town's notice to the last known
address of a responsible party as reflected in the records of the Jefferson
County clerk and recorder's office shall be considered adequate notwithstanding
any error in the county's records. The town administrator may reasonably rely
upon current county records to obtain an accurate address for a responsible
party.
      3.   The notice of application for an abatement order shall include a
copy of the town's application and its affidavit in support thereof, as well as
the time, date, and place at which the town will appear before the municipal
court to request entry of the abatement order.
      4.   At the stated time, date, and place, the municipal court judge shall
review the application for administrative abatement order, the affidavit, any
statement of the town in support thereof, as well as any statement and evidence
presented by the responsible party, if present.
      5.   Thereafter, the municipal court is authorized to enter an order
permitting the town to enter upon such property, abate the same and recover its
costs as provided by section
 5-1-7 of this chapter.
   D.   Abatement Without Notice Or Court Order On Public Property: Any
nuisance located or found in or upon any street, avenue, alley, public
sidewalk, highway, public right of way, public grounds, park, recreation
facility, or public property in the town may be abated without notice.
   E.   Adequate Notice: At any hearing conducted pursuant to subsection C of
this section, the municipal court judge may consider evidence of actual notice
received by a responsible party in determining whether adequate notice of a
violation or of a citation has been provided. The judge may find that notice is
adequate despite a lack of technical compliance with subsection B of this
section upon evidence that a responsible party received actual notice of a
written notice to abate a reasonable amount of time prior to the expiration of
the abatement period. (Ord. 425, 9-15-2015)
5-1-6: EMERGENCY ABATEMENT:
If in the judgment of the town administrator a nuisance is a cause of imminent
danger to the public health, safety or welfare, any such nuisance may be
summarily abated by the town, and costs of abatement shall be charged and
recovered as provided by section
5-1-7 of this chapter. In all such cases, the responsible party shall be given
notice of a postabatement hearing before the municipal court and an opportunity
at that time to contest the validity of the abatement. (Ord. 425, 9-15-2015)
5-1-7: RECOVERY OF EXPENSE OF ABATEMENT:
   A.   The actual costs of abatement, plus fifteen percent (15%) of such
abatement costs for inspection, a minimum fee assessment of one hundred dollars
($100.00) and other incidental costs of abatement, shall be assessed upon the
lot, lots or tracts of land upon which such nuisance is abated.
   B.   Such costs shall be paid to the town within thirty (30) days after the
town has mailed notice of the assessment by certified mail to the owner of the
property; provided, however, that if the property is occupied by someone other
than the owner, the town shall mail such notice of assessment by certified
mail, to both the occupant and the owner. Service shall be complete upon
depositing the notice within the United States postal service, postage prepaid
for certified mail. Every such assessment shall be a lien in the several
amounts assessed against such lot, lots or tract of land until paid.
   C.   Failure to pay such assessment within such period of thirty (30) days
shall cause such assessment to become a lien against such lot, block or parcel
of land and shall have priority over all liens, except general taxes and prior
special assessments, and the same may be certified at any time after such
failure to so pay the same, by the town pursuant to Colorado Revised Statutes
31-20-105 to the county treasurer to be placed upon the tax list for the
current year and to be collected in the same manner as other taxes are
collected, with fifteen percent (15%) penalty to defray the cost of collection.
(Ord. 425, 9-15-2015)
5-1-8: VIOLATIONS AND PENALTY:
   A.   Any person violating any provision of this chapter shall be subject to
the penalties set forth in section
1-4-1 of this code; provided however that nothing contained in this section or
section
1-4-1 of this code shall impair the ability of the town to enforce the other
remedial provisions provided in this chapter.
   B.   As a portion of any judgment, fine or assessment levied upon conviction
of a violation of this chapter the court may order that the violation be abated
within a time established by the court, but in no event to exceed thirty (30)
days from the date of conviction. Failure to abate within the time so ordered
may constitute contempt of court, and shall be punishable as such. The order
shall also provide that, in the event the defendant has not abated the nuisance
within thirty (30) days after the court order, the town or its agents are
authorized to do so.
   C.   In addition to any fines levied hereunder, the court shall impose, as a
portion of the costs assessed against the defendant, any costs incurred by the
town in prosecuting, enforcing and abating the nuisance.
   D.   Each day during which any person commits, or allows to remain unabated,
any of the actions specified as unlawful in this chapter shall constitute a
separate offense. Multiple violations of this chapter may be included on a
single notice to abate or a single summons and complaint. (Ord. 425, 9-15-2015)
CHAPTER 2
NOISE CONTROL
SECTION:
5-2-1: Short Title
5-2-2: Declaration Of Policy
5-2-3: Definitions
5-2-4: General Prohibitions
5-2-5: Sound Level Standards
5-2-6: Amplified Sound; Motor Vehicles
5-2-7: Amplified Sound; Stationary Sources
5-2-8: Violation, Penalty
5-2-1: SHORT TITLE:
This chapter shall be known as the MORRISON NOISE CONTROL ORDINANCE. (Ord. 382,
6-21-2011)
5-2-2: DECLARATION OF POLICY:
It is declared that at certain levels, noise is detrimental to the public
health, comfort, convenience, safety and welfare of the citizens of the town.
This chapter is enacted to protect, preserve and promote the health, welfare,
peace and quiet of the citizens of Morrison through the reduction, prohibition
and regulation of noise. It is the intent of this chapter to establish and
provide for sound levels that will eliminate unreasonable and excessive noise,
and prevent sound levels which are physically harmful and detrimental to the
residents, visitors, and businesses of the town. (Ord. 382, 6-21-2011)
5-2-3: DEFINITIONS:
The following definitions shall apply in the interpretation and enforcement of
this chapter:
A-WEIGHTED SOUND PRESSURE LEVEL: The sound pressure level as measured on an
ANSI-SI.4-1971 type 1 or type 2 sound level meter using the A-weighting
network. It is the approximate sound level as heard by the human ear, measured
in decibels. The standard is dBA.
   AMBIENT SOUND LEVEL: The sound pressure level of all sound associated with a
given environment and being a composite of sounds from many sources during the
period of observation excluding specific noise sources of interest.
   AUDIBLE OR PLAINLY AUDIBLE: The information content of sound is
unambiguously transferred to the auditor, such as, but not limited to,
understanding of spoken speech, comprehension of raised or normal voices, or
comprehension of musical rhythms.
   BACKGROUND SOUND LEVEL: The sound pressure level of all sound associated
with a given environment including specific noise sources of interest, exceeded
ninety percent (90%) of the time (L90).
C-WEIGHTED SOUND PRESSURE LEVEL: The sound pressure as measured on an ANSI-
SI.4-1971 type 1 or type 2 sound level meter using the C-weighted network. This
measurement includes most of the low frequency information omitted in A-
weighting.
   COMMERCIAL DISTRICT: A. An area where offices, clinics and the facilities
needed to serve them are located;
   B.   An area with local shopping and service establishments;
   C.   A tourist oriented area where hotels, motels and gasoline stations are
located;
   D.   A business strip along a main street containing offices, retail
businesses and commercial enterprises;
   E.   Other commercial enterprises and activities which do not involve the
manufacturing, processing or fabrication of any commodity.
"Commercial district" includes, but is not limited to, any parcel of land zoned
as a convenience commercial district, a neighborhood commercial district, a
community commercial district, a commercial district, a large lot commercial
district or an office district, under the zoning ordinance of the town.
   COMMERCIAL PURPOSE: Means and includes the use, operation or maintenance of
any sound or amplifying equipment, for the purpose of advertising any business,
any goods or any services, or for the purpose of attracting the attention of
the public to or advertising for or soliciting the patronage of customers to or
for any performance, show, entertainment, exhibition or event, or for the
purpose of demonstrating any such sound equipment.
   CONSTRUCTION ACTIVITIES: Any and all activity incidental to the erection,
demolition, assembling, altering, installing or equipping of buildings,
structures, roads or appurtenances thereto, including land clearing, grading,
excavating and filling.
   CONTINUOUS NOISE: A steady, fluctuating or impulsive noise which exists,
essentially without interruption, for a period of ten (10) minutes or more,
with an accumulation of an hour or more during a period of eight (8) hours.
   DECIBEL: A logarithmic unit of measure often used in measuring magnitudes of
sound. The symbol is dB.
   DEVICE: Any mechanism which is intended to produce or which actually
produces sound when operated or handled.
   DYNAMIC BRAKING DEVICE: A device used primarily on trucks for the conversion
of the motor from an internal combustion engine to an air compressor for the
purpose of braking without the use of wheel brakes.
   EMERGENCY WORK: Work made necessary to restore property to a safe condition
following a public calamity, or work required to protect persons or property
from an imminent exposure to danger or potential danger.
   INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT: An area in which enterprises and activities which
involve the manufacturing, processing or fabrication of any commodity are
located. "Industrial district" includes, but is not limited to, any parcel of
land zoned as an industrial district or a planned development district with
uses permitted in an industrial district under the zoning ordinance of the
town.
   LOW FREQUENCY SOUND: Sound having a frequency range of 20-150 Hz.
   MOTOR VEHICLE: Any vehicle, such as, but not limited to, a passenger
vehicle, truck, truck trailer, trailer or semitrailer, propelled or drawn by
mechanical power, and includes motorcycles, snowmobiles, minibikes, go-carts
and any other vehicle which is self-propelled.
   MUFFLER: Any apparatus consisting of a series of chambers or baffle plates
designed for the purpose of transmitting gases while reducing sound emanating
from such apparatus.
   NOISE: Sound that is unwanted and that causes or tends to cause adverse
psychological or physiological effects on human beings.
   NONCOMMERCIAL PURPOSE: The use, operation or maintenance of any sound
amplifying equipment for other than a commercial purpose. "Noncommercial
purpose" means and includes, but is not limited to, philanthropic, political,
patriotic and charitable purposes.
   PERSON: Any natural person, firm, association, organization, partnership,
business, trust, corporation, company, contractor, supplier, installer, user or
owner, and includes any municipal corporation, state or federal governmental
agency, district, or any officer or employer thereof.
   PREMISES: Every parcel of land in the city or portion thereof, including all
buildings, structures, land utilities (and all appurtenances thereto), yards,
lots, courts, and inner yards.
   PROPERTY LINE: That real or imaginary line and its vertical extension that
separates real property owned or controlled by any person from contiguous real
property owned or controlled by another person. The vertical and horizontal
boundaries of a dwelling unit in a multi-dwelling unit building, condominium,
or townhouse complex shall not be considered property lines separating one
premises from another.
   PUBLIC PREMISES: All real property, including appurtenances thereon, owned
or controlled by any governmental entity and includes, without limitation,
rights of way, streets, highways, sidewalks, alleys, parks, and waterways.
   RECEPTOR PREMISES: The premises (residential, commercial, or public) as
listed in subsection
 5-2-7B of this chapter receiving noise emitted from the source premises after
crossing one or more property lines.
   RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT: An area of single- or multiple-family dwellings and
includes areas where multiple-unit dwellings, high rise apartments and high
density residential districts are located. "Residential district" also
includes, but is not limited to, hospitals, nursing homes, homes for the aged,
schools, courts and similar institutional facilities. "Residential district"
includes, but is not limited to, land zoned as a large lot residential
district, a small lot residential district, a duplex residential district, a
high density residential district, a medium density residential district, or a
mobile home residential district under the zoning ordinance of the town.
   RESIDENTIAL PREMISES: All premises containing dwelling unit(s), primary
schools, churches, nursing homes, and similar institutional facilities and
includes any commercial premises where the use of more than fifty percent (50%)
of the gross floor area meets this definition of residential premises.
   SOUND: An oscillation in pressure, stress, particle displacement and
particle velocity that induces auditory sensation.
   SOUND AMPLIFYING EQUIPMENT: Any machine or device for the amplification of a
human voice, music or any other sound, or by which the human voice, music or
any other sound is amplified.
   SOUND LEVEL METER: An apparatus or instrument that includes a microphone,
amplifier, attenuator, output meter, and frequency weighting networks for the
measurement of sound levels. The sound level meter must be of a design and have
the characteristics of a type 2 or better instrument as established by the
American National Standards Institute, publication S1.4-1971, R 1976, entitled
"Specification For Sound Level Meters".
   SOUND PRESSURE LEVEL: Twenty (20) times the logarithm to the base-10 of the
ratio of the pressure of a sound to the reference pressure of twenty (20)
micronewtons per square meter (20 x 106 newtons/meter2), and is expressed in
decibels (dB).
   SOURCE PREMISES: The premises (residential, commercial, or public) as listed
in the table in section
5-2-7 of this chapter that is emitting noise that is crossing one or more
property lines and impacting the receptor premises.
   UNREASONABLE NOISE: Any excessive or unusually loud sound, or any sound
which disturbs the peace and quiet of any neighborhood or causes damage to any
property or business. (Ord. 382, 6-21-2011; amd. Ord. 422, 6-16-2015)
5-2-4: GENERAL PROHIBITIONS:
   A.   Unlawful To Make Unreasonable Noise: No person shall knowingly make or
continue, or cause to be made or continued, any unreasonable noise within the
town.
   B.   Unlawful Noises Generally: The following acts, enumerated in
subsections B1 through B7 of this section, are declared to cause unreasonable
noise in violation of this chapter; provided, however, that the following
enumeration is not in limitation of subsection A of this section, and is not
exclusive.
      1.   Bells And Chimes: No person shall use, operate, cause or permit to
be sounded any bell or chime, or any device for the production or reproduction
of the sounds of bells or chimes, audible at the property line of any church,
clock or school, between the hours of eleven o'clock (11:00) P.M. of one day
and six o'clock (6:00) A.M. of the following day.
      2.   Radios, Television Sets, Phonographs And Similar Devices; Use
Restricted: It is unlawful for any person to use, operate or permit to be
played any radio receiving set, musical instrument, television, phonograph, CD
player, drum, personal listening device, or other machine or device for the
production or reproduction of sound, in such a manner as to cause any
unreasonable noise.
      3.   Exhausts; Mufflers: No person shall discharge into the open air the
exhaust of any steam engine, stationary internal combustion engine, air
compressor equipment, motorboat, motor vehicle or other power device, which is
not equipped with an adequate muffler in constant operation and properly
maintained to prevent any unreasonable noise, and no such muffler or exhaust
system shall be modified or used with a cutoff, bypass or similar device.
      4.   Defect In Vehicle Or Load: It is unlawful for any person to operate,
or cause or permit to be operated or used, any automobile, truck, motorcycle or
other motor vehicle so out of repair, so loaded or in such a manner as to cause
any unreasonable noise.
      5.   Quiet Zone: The creation of any unreasonable noise is prohibited
within the vicinity of any school, institution of learning, church or court
while the same is in use or session, which unreasonably interferes with the
workings of such institution, or within the vicinity of any hospital, or
nursing home, or which disturbs or unduly annoys patients in the hospital or
residents in the nursing home, provided conspicuous signs are displayed in
adjacent, surrounding or contiguous streets indicating that the same is a
school, hospital, or nursing home, church or court.
      6.   Dynamic Braking Devices: No person shall operate any motor vehicle
with a dynamic braking device engaged which is not properly muffled.
      7.   Truck Loading: No person shall load any garbage, trash or compactor
truck, or any other truck, whereby the loading, unloading or handling of boxes,
crates, equipment or other objects is conducted within a residential district
or within three hundred feet (300') of any hotel, motel, or residential
district between the hours of ten o'clock (10:00) P.M. of one day and seven
o'clock (7:00) A.M. of the following day. (Ord. 382, 6-21-2011)
5-2-5: SOUND LEVEL STANDARDS:
   A.   Construction Activities: Except as otherwise provided in this chapter,
no person shall engage in, cause or permit any person to be engaged in
construction activities in any residential or commercial district between the
hours of nine o'clock (9:00) P.M. of one day and six o'clock (6:00) A.M. of the
following day. Construction activities directly connected with the abatement of
an emergency are excluded from the provisions of this section.
   B.   Power Equipment: No person shall operate or permit to be operated on
any private property, or on the public way within any residential or commercial
district(s), any power equipment used for home or building repair or grounds
maintenance, or any construction equipment used for construction activities,
between the hours of ten o'clock (10:00) P.M. of one day and seven o'clock (7:
00) A.M. of the next day. Such power equipment shall include, but not be
limited to, lawn mowers, garden tools, snow removal equipment, electric or
chain saws, pavement breakers, log chippers, riding tractors, or powered hand
tools.
   C.   Temporary Exemption From Chapter:
      1.   Applications for a temporary exemption from the provisions of
subsections A and B of this section shall be made to the town clerk or her
designee.
      2.   In approving or denying a temporary exemption, consideration shall
be given to effective dates, hours of operation, type of noise, location,
loudness, equipment noise characteristics and public health, safety and
welfare.
      3.   Any temporary exemption approved hereunder may provide for, without
limitation, a public information program prior to construction, restrictions on
effective dates, hours of operation, type of noise, location, loudness, and
equipment type relating to that particular activity giving rise to the relief
requested.
      4.   The town clerk shall promptly notify the board of trustees of each
temporary exemption approved. (Ord. 382, 6-21-2011)
   D.   Speed Or Endurance Events: The use of property for purposes of
conducting speed or endurance events involving motor or other vehicles shall be
exempt from the provisions of this chapter, but such exemption is effective
only during a specific period of time within which such use of the property is
authorized by the political subdivision or governmental agency having lawful
jurisdiction to authorize such use. (Ord. 422, 6-16-2015)
5-2-6: AMPLIFIED SOUND; MOTOR VEHICLES:
   A.   Sound Amplification Provisions:
      1.   No person shall use or operate any loudspeaker, public address
system, or other sound amplifying equipment in a motor vehicle in such a manner
as to be plainly audible at twenty five feet (25') from the motor vehicle,
unless a permit has been issued by the town clerk pursuant to subsection C of
this section which allows such amplification. If such a permit has been issued,
the intensity and loudness of any amplified sound, which is transmitted between
the hours of seven o'clock (7:00) A.M. and ten o'clock (10:00) P.M. of one day,
shall not be unreasonable.
      2.   The provisions of this section shall not apply to any bell or chime
or any device for the production or reproduction of the sound of bells or
chimes from any church, clock or school. (Ord. 382, 6-21-2011; amd. Ord. 422,
6-16-2015)
      3.   The provisions of this section shall not apply to sound made on
property owned by, controlled by, or leased to the town, and when such sound is
made by an activity sponsored by the town or by others pursuant to the terms of
a contract, lease, or permit granted by the town. (Ord. 422, 6-16-2015)
   B.   Application For Permit To Use Sound Amplifying Equipment In A Motor
Vehicle: Any person, partnership, association, or corporation desiring to use
or operate any loudspeaker, public address system, or other sound amplifying
equipment in or from a motor vehicle for either commercial or noncommercial
purposes must first obtain a permit from the town clerk. The permit may
authorize the use or operation of such sound amplifying equipment between the
hours of seven o'clock (7:00) A.M. and ten o'clock (10:00) P.M. of one day. The
application for the permit shall be filed with the town clerk and shall provide
the following information:
      1.   The name, address and telephone number of both the owner and the
user of the sound amplifying equipment;
      2.   The license number of the motor vehicle which is to be used;
      3.   The general description of the sound amplifying equipment which is
to be used;
      4.   Whether the sound amplifying equipment will be used for commercial
or noncommercial purposes; and
      5.   The dates upon which and the streets over which the equipment is
proposed to be operated.
   C.   Permit Issuance: Required permits may be issued by the town clerk if
the town clerk finds that the conditions of motor vehicle movement or
pedestrian movement are such that the use of the equipment will not constitute
an unreasonable interference with traffic safety, that the applicant will not
violate the hour restrictions of the permit, and that the use of the sound
amplifying equipment will not disturb the peace and quiet of any neighborhood.
An applicant may appeal the denial of a permit by the town clerk to the board
of trustees if such appeal is filed in writing with the town clerk within seven
(7) days of the denial of said permit by the town clerk. The board of trustees
or its designee shall conduct any hearing and/or review of the denial of the
permit request, and a decision shall be final. The board of trustees may
promulgate rules and regulations or procedures to govern any such hearing and/
or review. (Ord. 382, 6-21-2011)
5-2-7: AMPLIFIED SOUND; STATIONARY SOURCES:
   A.   General Jurisdiction: It shall be unlawful for any person to emit or
cause to be emitted any noise which leaves the premises upon which it
originates, crosses the property line, and enters onto any other premises (the
"receptor premises") in excess of the sound pressure levels permitted during
the time periods specified in subsection B of this section. It is further
unlawful for any person to emit or cause to be emitted any noise within public
premises in excess of the limits established in subsection B of this section.
The noise source shall be measured at any point along the property line of the
receptor premises or within the property line of the receptor premises to
determine compliance with this section. The location of origin of the noise,
whether within or outside the Town limits, shall not affect the enforcement of
this section if the noise is present on a receptor premises within the Town,
and in excess of the sound pressure levels in subsection B of this section.
   B.   Allowable Sound Pressure Levels (In dBA And dBC) With Time Of Day
Allowance:
 
    Receptor Premises
    Residential              Commercial               Public
    7:00 A.M. - 10:00 P.M. - 7:00 A.M. - 10:00 P.M. - 7:00 A.M. - 10:00 P.M. -
    10:00 P.M.  7:00 A.M.    10:00 P.M.  7:00 A.M.    10:00 P.M.  7:00 A.M.
dBA 55          50           65          60           75          70
dBC 65          60           75          70           75          70
 
   C.   Low Frequency: Low frequency sound that is determined to be plainly
audible inside a residential premises shall constitute prima facie evidence of
a noise violation. Such determination shall be made by the noise ordinance
enforcement official, and inside the residential premises with all windows and
doors closed.
   D.   Ambient Sound Level: When it is determined that the ambient sound
pressure level at the receptor premises equals or exceeds the maximum allowable
sound pressure level specified in subsection B of this section, then the
ambient sound level is the standard that cannot be exceeded.
   E.   Measurement:
      1.   dBA will be used as the primary measure for evaluating a complaint.
dBC may be used as a secondary measure, especially when the complaint is about
low frequencies or in a residence.
      2.   dBA and dBC will be measured a minimum of twenty (20) seconds for
each record taken.
Any sound pressure level that is measured must be taken with a sound level
meter and at the appropriate weighted network. If the noise from the source
premises interferes with the measurement of the background sound level at the
receptor premises, then measurements to determine the background sound level
may be taken at another location in the vicinity or at another time or both;
provided that the conditions at the alternative location or the alternative
time or both are similar to the conditions at the receptor premises at the time
of the noise measurement.
   F.   Exemptions: This section shall not apply to sound sources which are
within the scope of sections
5-2-4 and
 5-2-5 of this chapter. (Ord. 422, 6-16-2015)
   G.   Application For Permit For Amplified Sound At A Stationary Source: Any
person, partnership, association, or corporation desiring to use or operate any
loudspeaker, public address system, or other sound amplifying equipment at a
stationary source for either commercial or noncommercial purposes must first
obtain a permit from the Town Clerk. The permit may authorize the use or
operation of such sound amplifying equipment between the hours of seven o'clock
(7:00) A.M. and ten o'clock (10:00) P.M. of one day. The application for the
permit shall be filed with the Town Clerk and shall provide the following
information:
      1.   The name, address and telephone number of both the owner and the
user of the sound amplifying equipment;
      2.   The physical address at which the sound amplifying equipment will be
operated;
      3.   The general description of the sound amplifying equipment which is
to be used;
      4.   Whether the sound amplifying equipment will be used for commercial
or noncommercial purposes; and
      5.   The dates and times upon which the equipment is proposed to be
operated.
   H.   Permit Issuance: Required permits may be issued by the Town Clerk if
the Town Clerk finds that the conditions of the proposed use and its location
are such that the applicant will not violate the hour restrictions of the
permit, that the use of the sound amplifying equipment will not unreasonably
disturb the peace and quiet of any neighborhood. In granting a permit, the Town
Clerk may impose any conditions necessary to ensure that exercise of the permit
will be consistent with the purpose and intent of this chapter. An applicant
may appeal the denial of a permit or issuance of a permit with conditions by
the Town Clerk to the Board of Trustees if such appeal is filed in writing with
the Town Clerk within seven (7) days of the denial of said permit by the Town
Clerk. The Board of Trustees or its designee shall conduct any hearing and/or
review of the denial of the permit request, and a decision shall be final. The
Board of Trustees may promulgate rules and regulations or procedures to govern
any such hearing and/or review. (Ord. 466, 10-2-2018)
5-2-8: VIOLATION, PENALTY:
   A.   It is unlawful for any person to violate any of the provisions of this
chapter.
   B.   Every person convicted of a violation of any provision of this chapter
shall be subject to a penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this Code. (Ord. 382, 6-21-2011; amd. Ord. 422, 6-16-2015)
CHAPTER 3
PROPERTY MAINTENANCE, LANDSCAPING, GARBAGE, TRASH, AND REFUSE REGULATIONS
SECTION:
5-3-1: Definitions
5-3-2: Maintenance And Landscaping
5-3-3: Garbage, Trash And Refuse Storage, Enclosure And Disposal
5-3-4: Exclusive Refuse And Recyclable Collection, Trash And Refuse Storage,
Enclosure And Disposal
5-3-5: Penalty
5-3-1: DEFINITIONS:
   ASHES: The solid waste products of combustion of any material.
   BUILDING RUBBISH: Includes waste material from construction, remodeling and
repair operations on houses, buildings and other structures. Building rubbish
comprises a great variety of matter, such as excavated earth, stones, bricks,
plaster, wallpaper, lumber, shingles, laths, concrete, discarded plumbing and
electrical apparatus, roofing, scraps of metal, etc. Neither the term household
rubbish nor the term yard rubbish includes building rubbish.
   CENTRAL BUSINESS DISTRICT: That area of the town located within the
commercial transitional zone district and lying between the intersection of
Mount Vernon Avenue and Colorado Highway 8 on the east, the intersection of
Colorado Highways 8 and 74 on the west, Bear Creek on the south and the town
limits on the north, excepting so much of the district west of Beckett Lane as
cannot be maintained due to steepness of slopes and rock formations.
   GARBAGE: Includes waste from the preparation, cooking and consumption of
food, market refuse and waste from the handling, storage, preparation and sale
of produce. Garbage originates primarily in kitchens, stores, markets,
restaurants, hotels and other places where food is stored, cooked or consumed.
   RUBBISH: The waste, rejected, valueless or worthless matter, materials,
trash and debris, including useless, unused, unwanted or discarded articles,
appliances, furniture, furnishings, from the ordinary household or business;
the term does not include ashes, sod, dirt, garbage, yard rubbish or building
rubbish.
   UNATTENDED VEGETATION: Shall include, but not be limited to, poisonous
plants or shrubs or unattended growths of shrubs, trees, seedlings, weeds,
grass, or other vegetation which have reached a height of six inches (6") or
more.
   YARD RUBBISH: Includes tree branches, twigs, grass, shrub clippings, weeds,
leaves and other general yard and garden waste materials. Yard rubbish may
include a small quantity of dirt attached to weeds, etc., but does not include
sod or dirt as such. (Ord. 276, 9-2-1997)
5-3-2: MAINTENANCE AND LANDSCAPING:
   A.   It shall be the duty of the owner, agent or lessee of any real property
located within the central business district to provide for regular weeding,
pruning and other maintenance of all plantings located on his private property
adjacent to any public right of way. Plant materials which exhibit evidence of
insects, pests, disease or damage shall be appropriately treated, and dead
plant materials shall be removed or replaced.
   B.   It shall be the duty of the owner, agent or lessee of any real property
within the central business district abutting a constructed public right of way
to provide for landscaping and maintenance of any right of way area between his
property line and the curb line or designated roadway. The area shall be
maintained in accordance with rules and regulations adopted by the public works
director.
   C.   All lots and lands within the central business district shall be kept
clear of unattended vegetation. It shall be the duty of the owner, occupant,
lessee, or holder of legal or equitable interest of or in the property, or any
agent of the above, to cut unattended vegetation on the property in accordance
with this section. It shall also be the duty of such person or entity to cut
such vegetation on alleys abutting the property to the middle of the alleys,
and on the sidewalk areas, including any right of way area between the property
line and the curb line or designated roadway. Vegetation cuttings shall be
removed immediately after cutting. It shall be unlawful to fail to keep lots
and lands within the town clear of unattended vegetation in accordance with
this section.
   D.   If unattended vegetation is not kept cleared in accordance with this
section, the public works director or his designated representative(s) may
cause a written notice to be issued to the owner, occupant, lessee, or holder
of legal or equitable interest of or in the property, or to their agents,
stating the existence of unattended vegetation and directing that the
unattended vegetation be cleared. Such notice shall provide that compliance
must be made within ten (10) days of such notice. Such notice shall also
indicate that failure to comply with the notice will result in criminal
prosecution, and that the unattended vegetation may be cleared by the town at
the expense of the party to whom the notice was issued, unless written appeal
be made to the board of trustees within ten (10) days of service of the notice.
   E.   Failure to comply with a notice issued pursuant to subsection D of this
section within the specified time shall constitute a violation of this section
and is therefore unlawful, and each day thereafter that the property continues
to fail to comply shall constitute a separate violation.
   F.   If the person or entity to whom the notice is directed fails to comply
within the specified time or fails to appeal the notice in writing to the board
of trustees within ten (10) days of its service, the public works director or
his designated representative may, in his discretion, order the clearing of the
unattended vegetation by or on behalf of the town, and the procedures outlined
in subsections G and H of this section for collection of the costs and expenses
thereof shall apply in addition to the penalties provided by this code.
   G.   When clearing has been ordered pursuant to subsection F of this
section, the public works director or his designated representative shall bill
any or all owners, occupants, lessees or holders of legal or equitable interest
of or in the property known to the public works director or his designated
representative for the costs and expenses as determined by the public works
director or his designated representative.
   H.   If the owner, occupant, lessee or holder of legal or equitable interest
of or in the property shall fail within thirty (30) days after billing to pay
the costs and expenses of clearing by the town, a lien may be assessed against
the property. The public works director, to initiate such lien, shall certify a
statement thereof to the Jefferson County treasurer, who shall assess and
charge the same against the property involved and collect the same, together
with interest at the rate of interest established by law for delinquent real
property taxes.
   I.   The liens created hereby shall be superior and prior to other liens,
regardless of date, except liens for general or special taxes.
   J.   Service of the notice provided for in subsection D of this section
shall be made either by serving such notice in person on the person or entity
named in the notice, or by sending such notice by first class mail to the
residence or place of business of the person or entity named in the notice
(service shall be deemed complete upon mailing), or by posting such notice on a
conspicuous place on the property on which the violation is occurring (service
deemed complete as of the moment of posting).
   K.   The public works director or his designated representative(s) shall
cause to be posted twice a year, on or about March 1 and July 1, at a place for
posting public notices in the town, a notice which informs the public of the
provisions of this chapter relating to unattended vegetation. Such posted
notice is to be given for the purpose of information and compliance, and is not
to be substituted for any notice required by subsection D of this section. Such
notices may also be mailed to owners of property within the central business
district with water and sewer bills, on or about the above dates. (Ord. 276, 9-
2-1997)
5-3-3: GARBAGE, TRASH AND REFUSE STORAGE, ENCLOSURE AND DISPOSAL:
   A.   Requirement To Provide Containers:
      1.   To the extent not included within the mandatory program for use of
the town's exclusive refuse and recycling contractor set forth in section
5-3-4 of this chapter, it shall be the duty of every owner and occupant of a
property or premises where garbage, trash or refuse is generated to provide,
and at all times maintain in good order and repair, container(s) for such
garbage, trash or refuse. Said owner or occupant shall provide containers of
such size and number as defined herein so that all garbage, trash or refuse
generated from the property or premises can be accommodated in such containers
without overflowing. (Ord. 362, 4-7-2009; amd. Ord. 439, 12-6-2016)
      2.   Garbage, trash or refuse containers shall be either a commercial
type dumpster with a lid or a residential type garbage container with the
following design:
         a.   Not more than ninety (90) gallon capacity;
         b.   Watertight;
         c.   Composed of a solid and durable grade of metal or plastic or
similar and suitable material, such as fiberglass or rubber;
         d.   Suitable handle or handles on the outside;
         e.   Tightfitting insect and rodent resistant cover.
      3.   Plastic trash bags may be used in lieu of a container provided they
have a closing mechanism to prevent the emission of odors and are of sufficient
thickness and strength to contain the refuse, trash or garbage without tearing
and ripping under normal handling.
      4.   If plastic trash bags at any location are repeatedly subject to
tearing or ripping by animals or other causes, then after notice by the town to
the owner or tenant, the use of plastic trash bags shall be prohibited at that
location and garbage, trash or refuse containers meeting the requirements of
subsection A2 of this section shall be used.
      5.   Anything to the contrary notwithstanding, the owner of any multi-
family residence consisting of three (3) or more units per lot, or any entity
which owns common areas that serve three (3) or more units per lot, or the
owner of any commercial or industrial zoned property, shall provide a
commercial type dumpster for the occupants of the unit after notification from
the public works director to provide such dumpster. The director will notify
the owner or entity only after the director has reasonable cause to order such
action. Reasonable cause shall include, but not be limited to, the following:
         a.   An excessive number of containers or bags are used to store
garbage, trash or refuse generated from any property under separate ownership.
More than eight (8) containers or bags per property shall constitute an
excessive number;
         b.   The existence of a filled container or bag that weighs more than
fifty (50) pounds;
         c.   Insects, rodents, other animals, or odor problems are in
evidence;
         d.   Spillage or leakage is in evidence;
         e.   Reasonable cause exists to believe that the occupants of the
property are dumping their garbage, trash or refuse in the dumpster or garbage
containers of adjacent property owners.
   B.   Placement And Storage Of Containers And Plastic Trash Bags:
      1.   Garbage, trash and refuse containers and plastic trash bags must be
stored within ten feet (10') of the building or within a concealed area not
closer than twenty five feet (25') from the street.
      2.   Garbage, trash and refuse containers and plastic trash bags may be
placed at curbside in front of a single-family dwelling or multiple-family
dwelling for collection purposes for a period not to exceed forty eight (48)
consecutive hours each week.
      3.   When placed for collection, garbage, trash and refuse containers,
plastic trash bags and recyclable materials shall not be placed on the sidewalk
or in the street, in such a manner as to impair or obstruct pedestrian, bicycle
or vehicular traffic.
      4.   Except when placed curbside for trash pick up, all garbage, trash
and refuse containers, including commercial type dumpsters and residential type
containers, shall be placed on private property and shall not extend onto the
public right of way unless a revocable license agreement has been approved by
the town and a written revocable license agreement has been executed by the
applicant and the town. All commercial type dumpsters shall be placed on an
improved all weather surface and shall not interfere with vehicle or pedestrian
travel and shall not obstruct the sight triangle.
   C.   Enclosure:
      1.   Upon the direction of the public works director pursuant to
subsection A5 of this section, the property owner or occupant shall provide an
enclosure for the commercial dumpster that shall meet specifications as adopted
by the public works director and shall be erected at a location approved by the
public works director. (Ord. 362, 4-7-2009)
5-3-4: EXCLUSIVE REFUSE AND RECYCLABLE COLLECTION, TRASH AND REFUSE STORAGE,
ENCLOSURE AND DISPOSAL:
   A.   Designated Contractor: On and after February 1, 2017, residential
refuse and recyclable collection service shall be provided by the town's
designated contractor: Allied Waste Transportation Inc., DBA Republic Services
Of Denver or its authorized successor in interest (the "contractor"). Such
refuse and recyclable collection services shall be provided to and used by
residents of the town pursuant to that certain agreement for residential refuse
and recycling collection services entered into between the town and the
contractor, as it may be amended from time to time.
   B.   Prohibition On Commercial Collection; Exceptions: Except as provided by
subsection C of this section, on and after February 1, 2017, no residential
refuse or recyclables may be collected by any private contractor for hire other
than the town's designated contractor. Provided, however, any residential
customer may choose, at their own personal expense, to personally remove their
refuse and recyclables from the town, but may not employ any commercial trash
or refuse removal contractor for that purpose, it being the intention of the
board of trustees to fully exercise its authority granted by Colorado Revised
Statutes section 30-15-401 to restrict residential refuse and recyclable
collection within the town to a single company chosen by the town.
   C.   Applicability; Exceptions: This section applies to and governs only the
removal of residential refuse and recyclables within the town. For purposes of
this section, "residential refuse and recyclables" shall mean such items
generated by single-family residences and multi-family buildings containing
seven (7) or fewer dwelling units. All commercial establishments, as well as
multiple-family dwellings of eight (8) dwelling units or more, are not required
to use the residential refuse and recycling removal services provided by the
town through the town's designated contractor. Owners of such commercial
establishments or multi-family buildings of eight (8) dwelling units or more
may contract with a refuse and recyclable removal company of their choice or
may separately contract with the town's designated contractor under such terms
as the parties may agree.
   D.   Enforcement: Any person violating the prohibition on contracting with a
refuse collection company not approved by the town as described above, shall be
subject to citation to the municipal court for violation of this section,
provided, however, notwithstanding section
5-3-5 of this chapter, no incarceration may be sought or imposed for such
violation.
   E.   Fee For Services: The town may charge a fee for the residential refuse
and recyclables collection service provided by the town's designated
contractor. The fee for the period February 1, 2017 to January 31, 2018, is
hereby waived. On and after February 1, 2018, the fee shall be established by
the board of trustees acting by resolution. The fee shall be included on bills
for town water service under section
8-1-8 of this code and may be enforced and collected in the same manner as
fees, rates, and charges for water service. (Ord. 439, 12-6-2016)
5-3-5: PENALTY:
   A.   Any person violating any provision of this chapter shall be punished
pursuant to section
1-4-1 of this code.
   B.   The penalties provided in this section shall not be affected by the
penalties provided in any other section of this chapter but shall be construed
to be in addition to any other penalties. (Ord. 276, 9-2-1997; amd. Ord. 439,
12-6-2016)
CHAPTER 4
OPEN BURNING
SECTION:
5-4-1: Definitions
5-4-2: Open Burning Prohibited; Exemptions
5-4-3: Penalties
5-4-1: DEFINITIONS:
   FIREWORKS: All fireworks as defined in section 12-28-101, Colorado Revised
Statutes, and specifically including "permissible fireworks" as defined in
section 12-28-101(8), Colorado Revised Statutes.
   LIQUID OR GAS FUELED APPLIANCES: Appliances such as firepits, grills and
camp stoves that burn liquid or gaseous fuels and can be shut off. This does
not include any device that burns solid fuels such as wood or charcoal and
which must be extinguished.
   OPEN FIRE AND OPEN BURNING: Any outdoor fire not contained within a portable
outdoor fireplace. This includes, but is not limited to, campfires, bonfires,
warming fires, the lighting of any fused explosives, permissible fireworks, the
use of model rockets and sky lanterns.
   PORTABLE OUTDOOR FIREPLACE: A commercially purchased portable, outdoor,
solid fuel burning fireplace that may be constructed of steel, concrete, clay
or other noncombustible material. A portable outdoor fireplace may be open in
design or may be equipped with a small hearth opening and a short chimney at
the top. These devices must be operated according to the manufacturers'
instructions with all covers, screens, spark arrestors and grates in place.
Portable outdoor fireplaces may not be operated within thirty feet (30') of a
structure or combustible material.
   RECREATIONAL FIRE: Any outdoor fire where the fire is not contained in a
portable outdoor fireplace or barbecue grill. This includes fires in drums and
barrels, fixed outdoor fireplaces and firepits.
   WELDING AND CUTTING TORCH APPLIANCES: Gas cylinder mixtures, electric and/or
portable powered welders and cutting appliances. (Ord. 436, 8-16-2016)
5-4-2: OPEN BURNING PROHIBITED; EXEMPTIONS:
   A.   All open fires, recreational fires and open burning, as defined herein,
are prohibited at all times within the limits of the town during which the
Jefferson County sheriff's office or the Morrison police chief has declared a
stage 1 or higher fire restriction. Notice of such restriction shall be posted
at the town hall and other locations to fully advise the public.
   B.   This chapter shall not apply to use of the following devices:
      1.   Liquid or gas fueled appliances.
      2.   Welding and cutting torch appliances.
      3.   Portable outdoor fireplaces. (Ord. 436, 8-16-2016)
5-4-3: PENALTIES:
Any person convicted of violating this chapter shall be subject to prosecution
in the municipal court and upon conviction subject to the penalties provided in
title 1, chapter 4 of this code. (Ord. 436, 8-16-2016)
TITLE 6
MOTOR VEHICLES AND TRAFFIC
CHAPTER 1
GENERAL TRAFFIC PROVISIONS
SECTION:
6-1-1: Model Traffic Code Adopted
6-1-2: Vehicle Registration And Driver License Requirements
6-1-3: Interpretation
6-1-4: Trials
6-1-5: Reserved
6-1-6: Violations; Penalties
6-1-7: Reserved
6-1-8: Failure To Appear
6-1-9: Civil Infractions
6-1-10: Imposition Of Court Costs
6-1-1: MODEL TRAFFIC CODE ADOPTED:
   A.   Adoption: Pursuant to parts 1 and 2 of article 16 of title 31 of
Colorado Revised Statutes, there is hereby adopted by reference the 2020
edition of the "Model Traffic Code" promulgated and published by the Colorado
Department of Transportation, Traffic Safety and Engineering Services, W Howard
Place, Denver, CO 80204. The subject matter of the Model Traffic Code relates
primarily to comprehensive traffic control regulations for the town. The
purpose of this chapter and the code adopted herein is to provide a system of
traffic regulations consistent with state law and generally conforming to
similar regulations throughout the state and the nation. Three (3) copies of
the model traffic code adopted herein are now filed in the office of the
administrator/town clerk of the town of Morrison, Colorado, and may be
inspected during regular business hours.
   B.   Deletions: The 2020 edition of the model traffic code is adopted as if
set out at length save and except the following articles and/or sections which
are declared to be inapplicable or unnecessary and are therefore expressly
deleted:
      1.   Section 101.
      2.   Section 102.
      3.   Section 113.
      4.   Section 117.
      5.   Section 1210.
      6.   Section 1701.
      7.   Section 1702.
      8.   Section 1705.
      9.   All subsections of the 2020 edition of the model traffic code for
Colorado that categorize violations into classes of traffic violations, traffic
offenses, misdemeanors, or which set forth a specific penalty for a violation,
whether monetary or otherwise.
      10.   Appendices 2 through 9.
   C.   Additions Or Modifications: The adopted code is subject to the
following additions or modifications:
      1.   Section 110, "Provisions Uniform Throughout Jurisdiction,"
subsection (4) is amended to read: "The Morrison municipal court shall have
jurisdiction over violations of traffic regulations enacted or adopted by the
board of trustees."
      2.   Section 221, "Bicycle And Personal Mobility Device Equipment," is
amended so that the title reads, "Bicycle Equipment" and each reference to
"EPAMD" in the body of the section is deleted.
      3.   Section 223, "Brakes," all references to "section 235(1)(a)" in
subsection (1), are modified to read "section 42-4-235(1)(a), C.R.S."
      4.   Section 225, "Mufflers - Prevention Of Noise," in subsection (1.5),
the reference to "section 235(1)(a)" is modified to read "section 42-4-235(1)
(a), C.R.S."
      5.   Section 228, "Restrictions On Tire Equipment," in subsection (5)(c)
(III), the reference to "section 235(1)(a)" is modified to read "section 42-4-
235(1)(a), C.R.S."
      6.   Section 237, "Safety Belt Systems - Mandatory Use - Exemptions -
Penalty," in subsection (3)(g), the reference to "section 235(1)(a)" is
modified to read "section 42-4-235(1)(a), C.R.S."
      7.   Section 239, "Misuse Of A Wireless Telephone - Definitions - Penalty
- Preemption," subsections (5)(a) and (b) are deleted.
      8.   Section 509, "Vehicles Weighed - Excess Removed," in subsection (2)
(b), the reference to "section 102(32)" is modified to read "section 42-1-102
(32), C.R.S."
      9.   Part 5 of the model traffic code is amended to add a new section 513
to read as follows:
         513. Weight Limits On Certain Streets Or Parts Thereof. When official
signs are erected giving notice thereof, no person shall operate any vehicle
with a weight limit in excess of the amount specified on such signs at any time
upon any of the streets or parts thereof or upon any of the bridges or viaducts
in this town.
      10.   Section 613, "Failure To Pay Toll Established By Regional
Transportation District," the reference to "code 4" is modified to read
"article 4."
      11.   Part 6 of the model traffic code is amended to add a new section
616 to read as follows:
         616. Barricades. Whenever barricades are erected to close off part or
all of a highway, as authorized by 42-4-111, C.R.S., no person shall drive
around, through, or between such barricades or into the barricaded area except
as directed or permitted by official signs or in compliance with the directions
of a police officer or other authorized person.
      12.   Section 710, "Emerging From Or Entering Alley, Driveway, Or
Building," subsection (3) is modified to read as follows:
         (3) No person shall drive any vehicle other than a bicycle, electric
assisted bicycle, or any other human-powered vehicle upon a sidewalk or
sidewalk area, except upon a permanent or duly authorized temporary driveway
and except as may be permitted in this code or other Morrison regulations.
      13.   Section 805, "Pedestrians Walking Or Traveling In A Wheelchair On
Highways," in subsection (5), the reference to "section 110" is modified to
read "section 42-4-110, C.R.S." and the reference to "section 111" is modified
to read "section 42-4-111, C.R.S."
      14.   Section 1010, "Driving On A Divided Or Controlled Access Highway,"
subsection (3) is modified to read as follows:
         (3)   Local authorities may by ordinance consistent with the
provisions of section 43-2-135(1)(g), C.R.S., with respect to any controlled-
access highway under their respective jurisdictions, prohibit the use of any
such highway by any class or kind of traffic which is found to be incompatible
with the normal and safe movement of traffic. After adopting such prohibitory
regulations, local authorities, or their designees, shall install official
traffic control devices in conformity with the standards established by
sections 601 and 602 at entrance points or along the highway on which such
regulations are applicable. When such devices are so in place, giving notice
thereof, no person shall disobey the restrictions made known by such devices.
      15.   Section 1012, "High Occupancy Vehicle (HOV) And High Occupancy Toll
(HOT) Lanes," in subsection (3)(b), the reference to "section 1701(4)(a)(I)(K)"
is amended to read "section 42-4-1701(4)(a)(I)(K), C.R.S."
      16.   Section 1105, "Speed Contests - Speed Exhibitions - Aiding And
Facilitating - Immobilization Of Motor Vehicle - Definitions," subsection (7)
(c) is amended to read as follows:
         (c)   The failure of the owner of the immobilized motor vehicle to
request removal of the immobilization device and pay the fee within fourteen
days after the end of the immobilization period ordered by the court or within
the additional time granted by the court pursuant to paragraph (d) of this
subsection (7), whichever is applicable, shall result in the motor vehicle
being deemed an 'abandoned vehicle', as defined in section 1802(1)(d) and
section 42-4-2102(1)(d), C.R.S., and subject to the provisions of part 18 of
this code and part 21 of article 4 of title 42, C.R.S., whichever is
applicable. The law enforcement agency entitled to payment of the fee under
this subsection (7) shall be eligible to recover the fee if the abandoned motor
vehicle is sold, pursuant to section 1809(2)(b.5) or section 42-4-2108(2)(a.5),
C.R.S.
      17.   Section 1105, "Speed Contests - Speed Exhibitions - Aiding And
Facilitating - Immobilization Of Motor Vehicle - Definitions," subsection (8)
(b) is amended to read as follows:
         (b) No person may remove the immobilization device after the end of
the immobilization period except the law enforcement agency that placed the
immobilization device and that has been requested by the owner to remove the
device and to which the owner has properly paid the fee required by subsection
(7) of this section. Nothing in this subsection (8) shall be construed to
prevent the removal of an immobilization device in order to comply with the
provisions of part 18 of this code or part 21 of article 4 of title 42, C.R.S.
      18.   Section 1204, "Stopping, Standing, Or Parking Prohibited In
Specified Places," new subsections (4)(d) and (e) are added to read as follows:
         (d) Subsection (1) shall not apply to official law enforcement or
emergency vehicles in the course of performing law enforcement duties or
providing emergency services.
         (e) Paragraph (a) of subsection (1) shall not apply to authorized
service vehicles parked by public employees or their agents in the course of
providing public service functions.
      19.   Section 1412, "Operation Of Bicycles And Other Human Powered
Vehicles," all references to "section 111" are amended to read "section 42-4-
111, C.R.S."
      20.   Section 1805, "Appraisal Of Abandoned Motor Vehicles - Sale," the
reference to "part 1 of code 6 of this title" is modified to read "part 1 of
article 6 of title 42, C.R.S."; and the reference to "code 6 of title 12,
C.R.S."
      21.   Section 1106, "Operation of Vehicle Approached by Emergency
Vehicle," any person who does not comply with C.R.S. 42-4-705(2) commits
careless driving as described in Section 1402 of this Code.
      22.   Section 1708, "Burden of Proof - Appeals," subsection (1) is
modified to read as follows:
         (1)   The burden of proof shall be upon the people, and the court
shall enter judgment in favor of the defendant unless the people prove the
elements of the offense beyond a reasonable doubt.
   D.   Application: This section and the Code adopted herein shall apply to
every street, alley, sidewalk area, driveway, park, and to every other public
way or public place or public parking area, either within or outside the
corporate limits of this Municipality, the use of which this Municipality has
jurisdiction and authority to regulate. The provisions of sections 1401, 1402,
1413, and part 16 of the adopted Model Traffic Code, respectively concerning
reckless driving, careless driving, eluding a police officer, and accidents and
accident reports shall apply not only to public places and ways but also
throughout this Municipality. (Ord. 409, 3-18-2014; amd. Ord. 450, 1-16-2018;
Ord. 531, 5-2-2023)
6-1-2: VEHICLE REGISTRATION AND DRIVER LICENSE REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   All motor vehicles in operation in the Town shall comply with State Law
requirements regarding the proper display of valid vehicle registration license
plates as stated in C.R.S. § 42-3-101 et seq.
   B.   All operators of a motor vehicle in the Town shall comply with State
Law requirements regarding licensure as stated in C.R.S. § 42-2-101 et seq.
(Ord. 547, 6-18-2024)
6-1-3: INTERPRETATION:
This chapter shall be so interpreted and construed as to effectuate its general
purpose to conform with the State's uniform system for the regulation of
vehicles and traffic. Article and section headings of the chapter and adopted
Model Traffic Code shall not be deemed to govern, limit, modify or in any
manner affect the scope, meaning or extent of the provisions of any article or
section thereof. (Ord. 132, 9-6-1978)
6-1-4: TRIALS:
   A.   Right To Trial By Jury: Any person charged with a violation of any
offense specified in subsection 6-1-6D of this chapter conviction of which
carries the possibility of imprisonment, shall be entitled to trial by jury
upon such charge in accordance with applicable statutes and the Colorado
Municipal Court Rules of Procedure.
   B.   No Trial By Jury: Trial by jury shall not be available for any other
violation of this chapter or of the Model Traffic Code for Colorado
municipalities as adopted by this chapter. (Ord. 208, 7-7-1988)
6-1-5: R ESERVED:  
(Rep. by Ord. 531, 5-2-2023)|
6-1-6: VIOLATIONS; PENALTIES:
   A.   It shall be unlawful to violate any provision of this chapter or any
provision of the model traffic code for Colorado municipalities, as adopted or
amended by this chapter. Such violations are traffic infractions and are hereby
deemed civil matters, except those violations stated in subsection D of this
section.
   B.   Traffic infractions as provided in this code shall be subject to the
following penalties:
      Minimum penalty: Fine of ten dollars ($10.00).
      Maximum penalty: Fine of one thousand dollars ($1,000.00).
      Court costs as authorized by state law shall be added to the fine.
   C.   The municipal court may, by order, establish a schedule of fines for
violations and provide for payment through the clerk of the court or violations
bureau, or by mail. The presiding municipal judge shall at least annually
review the schedule of designated civil penalties of this traffic code and
adopt on or before January 15 of each year a schedule of designated civil
penalties for the municipal court, provided that failure to so annually adopt
such a schedule of designated civil penalties shall not invalidate any such
schedule previously adopted.
   D.   A violation of any of the following provisions of the model traffic
code for Colorado municipalities, as adopted and amended by the town, shall be
a criminal traffic offense punishable by a fine or by imprisonment or by both
as specified in section
1-4-1 of this code.
      1.   Section 1101, speed limits, but only when the speed alleged is
greater than twenty five (25) miles per hour over the posted speed;
      2.   Section 1105, speed contests;
      3.   Section 1401, reckless driving;
      4.   Section 1402, careless driving;
      5.   Section 1409, compulsory insurance;
      6.   Section 1413, eluding or attempting to elude a police officer; and
      7.   Section 1903, school buses - stops - signs - passing.
   E.   In the event that a defendant is charged with more than one traffic
offense arising out of the same incident and at least one of the charged
offenses is listed in subsection D of this section, the defendant shall have
the right to demand a trial by jury as to all such offenses, which shall be
consolidated for purposes of trial. (Ord. 409, 3-18-2014; amd. Ord. 531, 5-2-
2023)
6-1-7: RESERVED:  
(Rep. by Ord. 531, 5-2-2023)|
6-1-8: FAILURE TO APPEAR:
If a person receives a summons and complaint or penalty assessment notice for a
violation of the Model Traffic Code, or any Town ordinance, and such person
fails to pay the fine and surcharge for the violation on or before the date
specified on the summons or notice and subsequently fails to appear in person
or by counsel before the Municipal Court for the return date thereon, the
Municipal Court may:
   A.   Enter a default judgment against a defendant charged with a traffic
infraction, except those listed at subsection
6-1-6D of this chapter, and assess the fine, court costs and any surcharge, if
applicable. The amount of the judgment shall be the appropriate penalty which
would be assessed after a finding of guilt or liability, plus costs and other
court fees regularly imposed for Municipal violations after a finding of guilt;
and
   B.   Direct the Clerk of the Court to provide the defendant with written
notice the judgment was entered and the amount thereof, together with a notice
that if a defendant does not appear within fifteen (15) days from the date set
forth on the notice, the court shall submit a transcript of record containing
the conviction and assessment of points to the Motor Vehicle Division of the
State Department of Revenue pursuant to rule 255(b) of the Colorado Rules of
Municipal Court Procedure.
Any person receiving a summons and complaint for a violation of the Model
Traffic Code or any Town ordinance (as opposed to penalty assessment notice),
must appear before the Municipal Court and may not resolve the matter without
such appearance. (Ord. 331, 12-27-2005; amd. Ord. 531, 5-2-2023)
6-1-9: CIVIL INFRACTIONS:
Notwithstanding any provision contained in this chapter, all violations of any
provision of the ordinances of the Town, including codes adopted by reference,
for which a fine only is established as a penalty for the violation thereof,
shall constitute a civil matter and not a criminal violation. Civil infractions
shall be tried only to the Municipal Judge. In such cases, defendants shall
have no right to a jury trial. (Ord. 331, 12-27-2005)
6-1-10: IMPOSITION OF COURT COSTS:
The Municipal Court is empowered to assess the following costs against any
defendant who is found guilty of violating any provision of the Town's
ordinances, or who pleads guilty or no contest to any such violation, or
against any defendant against whom judgment is entered pursuant to section
 6-1-8 of this chapter, or who is granted a deferred prosecution or deferred
judgment. The Municipal Court may in its discretion increase, decrease, or
waive any of the following fees and costs in any individual case when deemed
reasonable and just:
   A.   Court Costs: Court costs of thirty dollars ($30.00) shall be assessed
against every defendant who enters a plea of guilty, admission of liability, or
no contest to any ordinance violation before the court, or who fails to appear
for a scheduled trial; court costs of fifty dollars ($50.00) shall be assessed
against every defendant who is found guilty after a trial in the Municipal
Court for any ordinance violation;
   B.   Witness Fees: A witness fee of five dollars ($5.00) per witness per day
or part of a day in which the witness is actually in court, up to a maximum of
fifty dollars ($50.00) plus mileage to reflect the current Federal mileage
allowance for each mile actually and necessarily traveled from the witness's
residence to the court shall be assessed, but no Town officer or employee may
receive such witness fee. A witness fee of five dollars ($5.00) per appearing
witness shall be assessed against any defendant who fails to appear for a
scheduled trial;
   C.   Late Fee Or Time Payment Fee: A twenty five dollar ($25.00) late fee
shall be added for any payment which is not made within the time allowed by the
court;
   D.   Insufficient Funds Fee: As provided in Colorado Revised Statutes 13-32-
104(2), a thirty dollar ($30.00) fee shall be added for any payment of court
fees and costs paid by a check returned for insufficient funds;
   E.   Other Costs: Restitution or other costs may be assessed as deemed
appropriate by the court; and
   F.   Collection Of Fines: The Municipal Court Judge, Town Clerk or Town
Administrator are authorized to use any lawful method of collecting fines,
fees, default judgments, personal recognizance bond forfeitures, and civil
penalties due from any person assessed such sums by the Municipal Court,
including reasonable costs of collection. The Town shall be entitled to receive
the reasonable costs of collection in addition to the amounts otherwise due,
and interest at the statutory rate for unpaid civil judgments. Reasonable costs
of collection shall include, without limitation, the fees and costs of the Town
Attorney or of private counsel or a collection agency, but such fees and costs
shall not exceed twenty five percent (25%) of the amount collected. (Ord. 464,
8-21-2018; amd. Ord. 531, 5-2-2023)
CHAPTER 2
PARKING REGULATIONS
SECTION:
6-2-1: Posting Of Parking Zones
6-2-2: Time Limits
6-2-3: Parking Fees And Fines
6-2-4: Enforcement And Collection
6-2-1: POSTING OF PARKING ZONES:
Parking zones within the corporate limits of the town shall be established by
the posting of parking time limit signs. (Ord. 431, 5-3-2016; amd. Ord. 507, 6-
1-2021)
6-2-2: TIME LIMITS:
It shall be unlawful to park a motor vehicle or any other mode of conveyance
within such parking limit zones in excess of the time posted on such signs
during the hours specified on said signs. (Ord. 431, 5-3-2016; amd. Ord. 507,
6-1-2021)
6-2-3: PARKING FEES AND FINES:
The board of trustees, acting by resolution, shall adopt and from time to time
amend, as the board shall determine, a schedule of parking fees and fines for
nonpayment or violation thereof. The operator or owner of any motor vehicle or
any other type of vehicle or mode of conveyance violating the provisions of
this chapter or failing to pay the required parking fees shall be liable for
the full amount of the fee and applicable fine and any costs of collection of
the same. (Ord. 431, 5-3-2016; amd. Ord. 507, 6-1-2021)
6-2-4: ENFORCEMENT AND COLLECTION:
Violations of this chapter are traffic infractions, and no incarceration may be
imposed for violation thereof. The town may utilize photo machines, personnel,
or one (1) or more independent contractor(s) in its sole discretion for
enforcement including, the issuance of parking ticket citations. The town may,
in addition to enforcement by appropriate municipal court order, employ
independent contractors or a collection agency or agencies to collect
delinquent unpaid parking fines. (Ord. 431, 5-3-2016; amd. Ord. 507, 6-1-2021)
CHAPTER 3
VEHICLE WEIGHT RESTRICTIONS
SECTION:
6-3-1: Definitions
6-3-2: Weight Restriction
6-3-3: Exceptions
6-3-4: Violation; Penalty
6-3-1: DEFINITIONS:
   BUS: Every motor vehicle designed for carrying more than seven (7)
passengers and used for the transportation of persons for compensation.
   COMMERCIAL VEHICLES: Every vehicle designed, used or maintained primarily
for the transportation of property.
   SCHOOL BUS: Every motor vehicle owned by a public or governmental agency and
operated for the transportation of children to or from any school or privately
owned and while being operated primarily for the transportation of children to
or from any school.
   SEMI-TRAILER: Every vehicle of the trailer type so designed and used in
conjunction with a motor vehicle that some part of its own weight and that of
its own load rests upon or is carried by another vehicle.
   TRUCK: Any motor vehicle which is used for the transportation or delivery of
goods with a body built and designed for that purpose. (Ord. 117, 11-6-1974)
6-3-2: WEIGHT RESTRICTION:
No person shall operate or drive a commercial vehicle, truck, bus or semi-
trailer on Mount Vernon Avenue or Stone Street within the corporate limits of
the Town which has more than a ten thousand (10,000) pound gross weight. (Ord.
117, 11-6-1974)
6-3-3: EXCEPTIONS:
The terms and provisions of this Chapter shall not apply to any vehicle defined
herein which is traveling upon Stone Street or Mount Vernon Avenue to make a
local delivery to a home, residence or business within the Town or to any
vehicle which is driven by a resident of the Town traveling to or from his home
located within the Town limits, nor to a "school bus" as defined herein, nor to
an authorized emergency vehicle. (Ord. 117, 11-6-1974)
6-3-4: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
Every person convicted of a violation of the provisions stated in this Chapter
shall be subject to penalty as provided in Section
1-4-1 of this Code. (Ord. 117, 11-6-1974; amd. Ord. 261, 4-16-1996)
CHAPTER 4
TRACTION CONTROL DEVICES
SECTION:
6-4-1: Definitions.
6-4-2: Traction Control Device Required
6-4-3: Obstructing Roadway; Penalty
6-4-1: DEFINITIONS:
The following terms shall apply to this chapter as written unless context
indicates or requires a different meaning:
 
                           A device that is approved by the Colorado department
ALTERNATE TRACTION DEVICE: of transportation as capable of providing traction
                           comparable to that of metal chains or tire cables
                           under similar conditions.
                           A motor vehicle uses or carries the appropriate
EQUIPPED:                  traction equipment for icy or snow-packed
                           conditions.
                           Metal chains consisting of two circular metal loops,
                           one on each side of the tire, connected by no fewer
                           than nine evenly spaced chains across the tire tread
                           and any other traction devices differing from such
TIRE CHAINS:               metal chains in construction, material, or design
                           but capable of providing traction equal to or
                           exceeding that of such metal chains under similar
                           conditions. (Ord. 488, 3-3-2020; amd. Ord. 501, 11-
                           17-2020)
 
6-4-2: TRACTION CONTROL DEVICE REQUIRED:
Any person operating a commercial vehicle or vehicle combination over thirty-
five (35) feet in length on any roadway within the town shall equip said
vehicle with tire chains or alternate traction control devices when the
requirement for same is posted by signage erected by the state of Colorado.
Penalty: Violation of this section is a traffic offense. Upon conviction in the
municipal court, the penalty for the same shall be five hundred dollars
($500.00). (Ord. 488, 3-3-2020; amd. Ord. 501, 11-17-2020; Ord. 506, 6-1-2021)
6-4-3: OBSTRUCTING ROADWAY:
When any person operating a commercial vehicle or vehicle combination over
thirty-five feet in length on any roadway within the town fails to equip said
vehicle with tire chains or alternate traction control devices as required by
Section
6-4-2, and the result of said violation is an incident that causes the closure
of a travel lane in one or both directions, it is a violation of this Section.
Penalty: Violation of this section is a traffic offense. Upon conviction in the
municipal court, the penalty for the same shall be one thousand five hundred
dollars ($1,500). (Ord. 488, 3-3-2020; amd. Ord. 501, 11-17-2020)
CHAPTER 5
AUTOMATED VEHICLE IDENTIFICATION SYSTEM
SECTION:
6-5-1: Definitions
6-5-2: Notices Of Violation - In General
6-5-3: Speeding
6-5-4: Disobedience To A Traffic Control Signal
6-5-5: Automated Vehicle Identification System Corridors
6-5-6: Civil Penalty Assessment Notices
6-5-7: Vendors
6-5-8: Data Retention
6-5-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used within this chapter the following words and terms shall have the
following meaning except where otherwise specified:
   A.   Automated Vehicle Identification System includes a system to detect
traffic violations imposed by traffic signals or traffic signs, and/or a system
used to detect violations of a bus lane or bicycle lane restrictions. The term
includes a system whereby:
      1.   A machine is used to automatically detect a violation of a traffic
regulation and simultaneously record a photograph of the vehicle, the operator
of the vehicle, and the license plate of the vehicle; and
      2.   A notice of violation or civil penalty assessment notice may be
issued to the registered owner of the motor vehicle.
   B.   Notice of Violation shall mean a notice mailed via first class mail or
personally served to a registered owner of a vehicle involved in any traffic
violation detected by an automated vehicle identification system advising that
the violation has been detected, or a similar notice mailed to the operator of
the vehicle identified by a registered owner of said vehicle.
   C.   Civil Penalty Assessment Notice shall mean a notice mailed via first
class mail or personally served to a registered owner of a vehicle involved in
any traffic violation that has previously received a notice of violation.
   D.   Residential Neighborhood means any block on which a majority of the
improvements along both sides of the street are residential dwellings and the
speed limit is thirty-five (35) miles per hour or less. (Ord. 540, 2-6-2024)
6-5-2: NOTICES OF VIOLATION - IN GENERAL:
   A.   If the Town detects any alleged violation of a county or municipal
traffic regulation or traffic violation under state law through the use of an
automated vehicle identification system, then the Town shall issue, or cause
its vendor to issue, to the registered owner of the motor vehicle involved in
the alleged violation, by first-class mail or personal service, a Notice of
Violation.
   B.   The Town may only issue a Notice of Violation for violations that
occur:
      1.   Within a school zone;
      2.   Within a Residential Neighborhood;
      3.   Within a maintenance, construction, or repair zone designated
pursuant to C.R.S. § 42-4-614;
      4.   Along a street that borders a Town park; or
      5.   Along a street, or portions of a street, which the Town designates
as an automated vehicle identification system corridor as set forth in Section
6-5-5.
   C.   The Notice of Violation must be served:
      1.   Within thirty (30) days after the alleged violation if the motor
vehicle involved in the alleged violation is registered in the state; or
      2.   Within sixty (60) days after the alleged violation if the motor
vehicle involved in the alleged violation is registered outside the state.
   D.   The Notice of Violation must contain:
      1.   The name and address of the registered owner of the motor vehicle
involved in the alleged violation;
      2.   The license plate number of the motor vehicle involved in the
alleged violation;
      3.   The date, time, and location of the alleged violation;
      4.   The amount of the civil penalty prescribed for the alleged
violation;
      5.   The deadline for payment of the prescribed civil penalty and for
disputing the alleged violation; and
      6.   Information on how the registered owner may either dispute the
alleged violation at a hearing or pay the prescribed penalty.
   E.   To protest a Notice of Violation, the registered owner must request, in
writing, a hearing to dispute the alleged violation. The deadline to request a
hearing to dispute the Notice of Violation must be at least forty-five (45)
days after the date of the Notice of Violation. At hearing, the Town may not
require the registered owner to disclose the identity of the driver of the
vehicle who is detected through the use of the automated vehicle identification
system but may require the registered owner to submit evidence that the owner
was not the driver at the time of the alleged violation. (Ord. 540, 2-6-2024)
6-5-3: SPEEDING:
   A.   Violations.
      1.   For a speeding violation of less than ten (10) miles per hour over
the reasonable and prudent speed under a county or town traffic regulation or
under state law through the use of an automated vehicle identification system,
the violation shall be cited as follows:
         a.   For the registered owner's first offense, a written warning with
no penalty or surcharge; and
         b.   For the registered owner's second or subsequent offense, a Notice
of Violation.
      2.   For a speeding violation of more than ten (10) miles per hour over
the reasonable and prudent speed under a county or town traffic regulation or
under state law through the use of an automated vehicle identification system,
the Town shall issue the registered owner a Notice of Violation.
   B.   Civil Penalty. The maximum civil penalty for a speeding violation under
this Section, including any surcharge, is forty dollars ($40.00), unless the
violation is within a school zone, in which case the maximum penalty shall be
eighty dollars ($80.00). However, a violation that occurs within a maintenance,
construction, or repair zone designated pursuant to C.R.S. § 42-4-6 I 4 may be
subject to a civil penalty of eighty dollars ($80.00).
   C.   Signage. The Town shall place an appropriate temporary or permanent
sign in conspicuous place not fewer than three hundred feet (300') before the
area in which the automated vehicle identification system is to be used to
notify the public that an automated vehicle identification system is in use
immediately ahead. (Ord. 540, 2-6-2024)
6-5-4: DISOBEDIENCE TO A TRAFFIC CONTROL SIGNAL:
   A.   If the Town detects a violation of a municipal traffic regulation or
traffic violation under state law for disobedience to a traffic control signal
through the use of an automated vehicle identification system, the maximum
penalty, including any surcharge, is seventy-five dollars ($75.00).
   B.   The Town shall not use an automated vehicle identification system
designed to detect disobedience to a traffic control signal or other violation
of a local traffic ordinance unless the Town posts a sign notifying the public
that an automated vehicle identification system is in use immediately ahead.
Such sign shall:
      1.   Be placed in a conspicuous location not less than two hundred feet
(200') and not more than five hundred feet (500') before the automated vehicle
identification system; and
      2.   Use lettering that is at least four inches (4") high for upper case
letters and two and nine-tenths inches (2.9") high for lower case letters.
(Ord. 540, 2-6-2024)
6-5-5: AUTOMATED VEHICLE IDENTIFICATION SYSTEM CORRIDORS:
   A.   Pursuant to C.R.S. § 42-4-1 I 0.5(2)(g)(I), the Town identifies the
following corridors as automated vehicle identification system corridors:
      1.   The eastbound and westbound lanes of Bear Creek A venue at Mt.
Vernon Avenue.
      2.   The eastbound and westbound lanes of Highway 74 at Mile Marker 18
(Red Rocks Entrance 3).
      3.   The northbound and southbound lanes at Highway 8 at Summer Street.
   B.   Prior to using an automated vehicle identification system on an
automated vehicle identification system corridor, the Town shall post a
permanent sign not fewer than three hundred feet (300') before the beginning of
such corridor and a permanent sign not fewer than three hundred feet (300')
before each camera within the corridor or a temporary sign fewer than three
hundred feet (300') before any mobile camera.
   C.   The Town shall illustrate, through data collected within the past five
(5) years, incidents of crashes, speeding, reckless driving, or community
complaints on the streets designated as an automated vehicle identification
system corridor.
   D.   The Town will coordinate with the Department of Transportation and
Colorado State Patrol in designated corridors.
   E.   The Town will publish a report on its website disclosing the number of
citations and revenue generated by the automated vehicle identification system
corridor.
   F.   The Town shall not locate an automated vehicle identification system
corridor on any highway that is part of the federal interstate highway system.
(Ord. 540, 2-6-2024)
6-5-6: CIVIL PENALTY ASSESSMENT NOTICES:
   A.   If the Town has not received the prescribed civil penalty or written
notice requesting a hearing to dispute the alleged violation by the deadline
provided in the Notice of Hearing, then the Town shall issue, or cause its
vendor to issue, a Civil Penalty Assessment Notice to be served on the
registered owner either by first-class mail or personal service.
   B.   The Civil Penalty Assessment Notice shall contain:
      1.   The name and address of the registered owner of the motor vehicle
involved in the alleged violation;
      2.   The license plate of the motor vehicle involved in the alleged
violation;
      3.   The date, time, and location of the alleged violation;
      4.   The amount of the civil penalty prescribed for the alleged
violation;
      5.   The deadline for payment of the prescribed civil penalty; and
      6.   Information on how to pay the prescribed civil penalty.
   C.   If the registered owner fails to pay the full prescribed civil penalty
by the deadline stated in the Civil Penalty Assessment Notice, a final order of
liability shall be entered against the registered owner of the vehicle. The
final order must be personally served to the registered owner. Final orders of
liability may be appealed as to matters of law and fact to the Jefferson County
Court.
   D.   The Town may initiate or pursue a collection action against the
registered owner of a motor vehicle for debt resulting from the final order of
liability.
   E.   The Town shall not report to the Department of Transportation any
conviction or entry of judgment against a defendant for a violation of a
municipal traffic regulation or traffic violation under state law if the
violation was detected through the use of an automated vehicle identification
system.
   F.   If the registered owner fails to pay the full prescribed civil penalty,
the Town shall not attempt to enforce the penalty by immobilizing the
registered vehicle owner's vehicle. (Ord. 540, 2-6-2024)
6-5-7: VENDORS:
No portion of any fine collected through the use of an automated vehicle
identification system may be paid to the manufacturer or vendor of the
automatic vehicle identification system equipment. The compensation to such
vendor by the Town shall be based on the value of such equipment and the value
of any services provided and may not be based on the number of traffic
citations issued or the revenue generated by such equipment or services. (Ord.
540, 2-6-2024)
6-5-8: DATA RETENTION:
   A.   The Town shall:
      1.   Program the automated vehicle identification system to retain data
only when a violation of a county or municipal traffic regulation or traffic
violation under state law occurs;
      2.   Treat all photographs and video collected by the automated vehicle
identification system as confidential and exempt from disclosure and inspection
pursuant to the "Colorado Open Records Act" part 2 of Article 72, Title 24,
C.R.S.;
      3.   Not use, disclose, sell, or permit access to photographs, video, or
personal identifiable data collected by the automated vehicle identification
system except to the extent necessary to operate the program, including for
purposes of processing violations, for other law enforcement purposes, for
transferring data to a new vendor or operating system, or, pursuant to a court
order, for use in unrelated legal proceedings; and
      4.   Destroy any photographs and video of a violation collected by the
automated vehicle identification system within three (3) years after the final
disposition of the violation unless the photographs or video are maintained in
a separate system for other purposes allowed by law. (Ord. 540, 2-6-2024)
TITLE 7
PUBLIC WAYS AND PROPERTY
CHAPTER 1
STREETS, SIDEWALKS AND PUBLIC WAYS
SECTION:
7-1-1: Tree Limbs Overhanging Public Ways
7-1-1: TREE LIMBS OVERHANGING PUBLIC WAYS:
   A.   Permitting Tree Limbs To Overhang Public Ways: It shall be unlawful for
any person who owns or occupies any dwelling house, business place or other
property, vacant or occupied, within the corporate limits of the town, to
permit broken or dead tree limbs to overhang any public way within the town
including streets, highways, sidewalks and alleys in such a manner as to
present a hazard or danger to any persons or vehicles of any kind traveling
over and upon such public ways or to maintain or permit any shrubbery or trees
to grow in such a manner as to obstruct the vision of any persons traveling
upon such public ways or present any hazard to any person or vehicle of any
kind traveling upon such public ways. (Ord. 99, 1-13-1971)
   B.   Removal By Owner After Notice: Any owner or occupant of any dwelling
house, business or other property, vacant or occupied, located within the town,
shall, within fifteen (15) days after receipt of notice from the town police
chief, either by personal service upon them or after receipt of a certified
letter advising them that any tree or shrub is being maintained in violation of
the provisions of this section, remove or correct such tree or shrub so as to
not be in violation of the provisions of this section as set forth in the
notice given to them. (Ord. 417, 4-7-2015)
   C.   Violation; Penalty: Upon conviction for the violation of this section
the person so convicted shall be subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code, and every day of such violation shall be considered as a
separate offense under the terms of this section. (Ord. 99, 1-13-1971)
CHAPTER 2
STREET NAMES AND HOUSE NUMBERS
SECTION:
7-2-1: Numbers Required
7-2-2: Authority
7-2-3: Numbering System
7-2-4: Records
7-2-5: Adjustments And Corrections
7-2-6: Notice
7-2-7: Visibility; Placement
7-2-8: Private Roadways
7-2-9: Renaming Or Renumbering
7-2-10: Penalty
7-2-1: NUMBERS REQUIRED:
Each house, building or structure, except detached accessory use structures,
shall have the number designated, in accordance with this chapter, displayed
above or near the primary door or access point and the door or access point
nearest an emergency fire lane, if served by a fire lane. The owner or occupant
shall place numbers in accordance with this chapter. (Ord. 203, 12-2-1987)
7-2-2: AUTHORITY:
The town administrator, or a designated representative of the town
administrator, shall assign the proper number for all houses, buildings or
structures and the names of all streets, in accordance with this chapter. (Ord.
203, 12-2-1987; amd. Ord. 420, 6-2-2015)
7-2-3: NUMBERING SYSTEM:
All numbering and renumbering of houses, buildings and structures and naming
and renaming of streets shall be done in a manner consistent with the
metropolitan grid system and in accordance with the Jefferson County
metropolitan street guide. The town administrator or a designated
representative may adopt guidelines and policies for numbering or renumbering
not inconsistent with the grid system and street guide. (Ord. 203, 12-2-1987;
amd. Ord. 420, 6-2-2015)
7-2-4: RECORDS:
The town administrator or the official designated by the town administrator
shall maintain the official record of the proper numbers assigned and available
to all houses, buildings and structures. (Ord. 203, 12-2-1987; amd. Ord. 420,
6-2-2015)
7-2-5: ADJUSTMENTS AND CORRECTIONS:
In all cases in numbering, where there is a mistake, conflict or incorrect
numbering for any reason or where numbering varying from the general terms of
this chapter is necessary, the town administrator or a designated
representative shall direct and make the correction or adjustment in numbering
in accordance with the provisions of this chapter. (Ord. 203, 12-2-1987; amd.
Ord. 420, 6-2-2015)
7-2-6: NOTICE:
   A.   Time For Compliance: The owner/occupant of any house, building or
structure shall, within one hundred twenty (120) days of receipt of written
notice, cause the proper number to be placed on a house, building or structure
owned or occupied by her/him.
   B.   Use Of Designated Number Required: It is unlawful for an owner or
occupant to permit to be retained or used upon any house, building or structure
any number other than the number designated in accordance with this chapter.
(Ord. 203, 12-2-1987)
7-2-7: VISIBILITY; PLACEMENT:
Numbers shall be in arabic numerals placed in a conspicuous position above or
near the primary entrance of each house, building or structure and shall be
visible from the front of the building and at the rear of each house, building
or structure where there is access to the rear from an emergency fire lane.
(Ord. 203, 12-2-1987)
7-2-8: PRIVATE ROADWAYS:
   A.   Signage Required: All private roadways servicing numbered houses,
buildings or structures shall be named and marked with appropriate street
signs, located at the intersection of such private roadway with another private
roadway or with a public roadway.
   B.   Sign Standards: It shall be the duty of the owner or owners of such
private roadway to erect and maintain the signs in accordance with standards
adopted by the board of trustees for signs on public roadways. (Ord. 203, 12-2-
1987)
7-2-9: RENAMING OR RENUMBERING:
In all cases where a street has been renamed or renumbered by action of the
board of trustees, it shall be the duty of the town administrator or the
official designated by the town administrator to adjust and rename or renumber
such streets. (Ord. 203, 12-2-1987; amd. Ord. 420, 6-2-2015)
7-2-10: PENALTY:
Any person who violates or fails to comply with any provision of this chapter
shall be subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. The imposition of one penalty for any violation shall not
excuse the violation or permit it to continue. Each day that a violation
continues shall constitute a separate offense. (Ord. 203, 12-2-1987; amd. Ord.
261, 4-16-1996)
CHAPTER 3
MOUNT FALCON PARK
SECTION:
7-3-1: Purpose
7-3-2: Park Land Designated
7-3-3: Prohibited Conduct
7-3-4: Violation; Penalty
7-3-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this Chapter is to designate certain land, deeded to the Town by
Jefferson County, as a Municipal park and open space under the provisions of
Colorado Revised Statutes 31-25-301 et seq., and to establish regulations
governing the use of this park and to make certain conduct within the park
unlawful. (Ord. 146, 3-4-1981)
7-3-2: PARK LAND DESIGNATED:
The area known as Mount Falcon Park, deeded to the Town by commissioners deed
executed April 2, 1980 by Jefferson County, Colorado, and more particularly
described in Exhibit A attached to Ordinance 146 on file in the office of the
Town Clerk, which description is incorporated by this reference, is hereby
designated a Municipal park and open space of the Town. All references in this
Chapter to "Mount Falcon Park", "the park" or "park lands" refers to the
described area. (Ord. 146, 3-4-1981)
7-3-3: PROHIBITED CONDUCT:
   A.   Prohibitions: It shall be unlawful:
      1.   Enter During Closing Hours:
         a.   To enter, use or occupy Mount Falcon Park, or any portion
thereof, during the time such Park or any portions thereof are closed to entry,
use or occupancy.
         b.   To enter, use or occupy the park lands between the hours of
eleven o'clock (11:00) P.M. and five o'clock (5:00) A.M. except when such
entry, use or occupancy is authorized in writing by the Mayor of the Town or
such other official as he may designate.
      2.   Remove Or Damage Property: To remove, destroy, mutilate, deface or
damage any structure, poster, sign, marker, vegetation, rock or any object of
archeological, geological or historical value or interest in Mount Falcon Park.
      3.   Garbage, Refuse And Litter: To deposit or leave any refuse, trash or
litter in or upon park lands except by depositing such refuse, trash or litter
in designated refuse receptacles.
      4.   Lighting Fires: To build, start or light any fire of any nature on
park lands except in outdoor fireplace grills or camp stoves within designated
areas.
      5.   Burning In Careless Manner: To burn any material in a careless
manner, or to leave any fire unattended, or to fail to completely extinguish
any fire, on park land.
      6.   Hunt Or Trap Animals: On any park lands to hunt, trap, catch,
molest, harm, kill or chase any wild animal or bird or to molest their habitat.
      7.   Discharge Fireworks, Firearms: To discharge or use fireworks,
explosives, firearms, BB guns, pellet guns, air guns, cross bows, long bows or
sling shots while upon any park lands, except in designated areas or by law
enforcement officers on official duty.
      8.   Operate Motorized Vehicles:
         a.   To operate any motorized vehicle on any park lands except on
designated roadways which are open to public use.
         b.   For any unauthorized person to operate a motorized vehicle upon a
roadway located upon park land when such roadway is designated as a "service
road".
      9.   Parking In Prohibited Areas: To park vehicles or trailers on park
lands where prohibited or in such a manner as to create a hazard to vehicular,
pedestrian, equestrian or bicycle traffic.
      10.   Camping:
         a.   To camp overnight or to park a trailer or camper for overnight
camping purposes on any park lands, except in areas which are designated for
camping.
         b.   To camp, or to park a trailer or camper in such a designated area
for a period of time in excess of the posted or permitted limits.
      11.   Livestock:
         a.   To molest, harm or chase livestock while such livestock are on
any park lands.
         b.   To turn livestock onto or to suffer or permit livestock to graze
upon any park lands without written permission from the Mayor of the Town or
such other official as he/she may designate.
      12.   Swimming And Boating:
         a.   To swim or wade in, or to float upon by the use of any boat or
other flotation device, any park waters which are closed to such use.
         b.   To operate any boat or nonmotorized vehicle on any park lands or
waters where such use is prohibited.
         c.   To anchor or beach boats unattended overnight on any park lands
or waters in areas other than those designated and posted for such use.
         d.   To launch any boat from a trailer, car, truck or any other
conveyance on any park lands except at an established and posted launch area.
      13.   Hazardous Activities: For any person to engage in any activity on
any park land which constitutes a hazard to the safety of other persons, except
in areas where such activity is specifically authorized.
      14.   Commercial Activities: To conduct any commercial activity or
provide any service product or activity for which a fee is charged, on any park
lands, except when such activity is authorized in writing by the Mayor of the
Town or such other official as he/she may designate.
   B.   Exemptions: These regulations shall not be applicable to nor prohibit
any act by any officer or employee of the Town who is engaged in the
performance of any act within the scope of his/her employment. (Ord. 146, 3-4-
1981)
7-3-4: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
Any person convicted of violating any of the provisions of this Chapter shall
be subject to penalty as provided in Section
1-4-1 of this Code.
(Ord. 146, 3-4-1981; amd. Ord. 261, 4-16-1996)
CHAPTER 4
RESERVED
CHAPTER 5
REQUIREMENTS, TERMS AND CONDITIONS FOR WORK IN PUBLIC WAYS
SECTION:
7-5-1: Definitions
7-5-2: Permit Required; Fees
7-5-3: Terms And Conditions Of Permits
7-5-4: Relocation Of Facilities
7-5-5: Compliance With Other Town Laws And Regulations
7-5-6: Unlawful To Maintain Overhead Telecommunications Lines Or Utility Poles
7-5-7: Enforcement And Appeals
7-5-8: Penalty
7-5-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used herein terms shall have the following meanings:
   PERSON: Any individual, firm, partnership, special, general or metropolitan
district; corporation, municipality other than the Town, or a company or
organization of any kind.
   PUBLIC WAY: Any public street, way, place, alley, sidewalk, easement, park,
square, plaza and any Town-owned right-of-way or any other public property
owned or controlled by the Town and dedicated to public use.
   SPECIFICATIONS: Engineering regulations, construction specifications and
design standards adopted by or approved for use by the Town.
   SUPERINTENDENT: The Superintendent, Director or Manager of Public Works.
   TOWN: The Town of Morrison, Colorado.
   WORK IN A PUBLIC WAY: Means, but is not limited to, construction of or
within, streets and other public ways and all related appurtenances, including,
without limitation, curb or gutter, sidewalks, driveway openings, bus shelters,
benches or loading pads, street lights or traffic signal devices. It shall also
mean installation, construction, maintenance, replacement, and repair of all
underground structures such as pipes, conduits, service, collection or
distribution lines, ducts, manholes, vaults, buried cables, wire, or any other
similar structures located below the surface of any public way, and
installation, construction, maintenance, replacement, and repair of above
ground poles, lines, wires, cables or other similar structures and appurtenaces
used for any purpose.
(Ord. 283, 1-20-1998; amd. Ord. 491, 5-19-2020)
7-5-2: PERMIT REQUIRED; FEES:
   A.   No person shall perform work in a public way of the Town without first
obtaining a permit from the Town. Work within a State highway will require both
a State and Town permit.
   B.   Any person performing work, in a physical location intended to be
dedicated to the Town as a public way upon completion of the work but not yet
accepted by the Town, shall obtain a permit from the Town and permission of the
property owner.
   C.   Any person performing work in accordance with a public improvement
agreement approved by the Town shall submit a set of plans and specifications
approved by the Town with its permit application. No work shall be performed
until plans and specifications are approved and a permit issued.
   D.   Each permit application shall be accompanied by a fee which may include
an inspection fee, which fees shall be established, and may be revised from
time to time, by resolution of the Board of Trustees.
(Ord. 283, 1-20-1998; amd. Ord. 491, 5-19-2020)
7-5-3: TERMS AND CONDITIONS OF PERMITS:
   A.   The Superintendent shall review each permit application and shall
determine in each case the appropriate terms and conditions, record these on
the permit and issue the permit only upon their satisfaction where appropriate.
These terms and conditions may include:
      1.   Insurance up to the limits of the Governmental Immunity Act and
presentation of a certificate of such insurance showing the Town, its officers
and employees as additional insureds.
      2.   A performance and warranty guarantee in the form of cash, acceptable
bond or letter of credit sufficient to indemnify the Town for any costs
incurred by it including, without limitation, completion, restoration, cleanup,
traffic control and repair and maintenance during the one year warranty period
after completion of the work. The initial guarantee shall be an amount equal to
one hundred percent (100%) of the estimated cost of restoration which shall
include removal of any defective material, recompaction of subgrade and base
material and construction of surface improvements. This requirement may be
waived by the Superintendent in appropriate cases where there is no risk of
loss to the Town.
      3.   Traffic control measures necessary to protect the public health and
safety.
      4.   Permitted hours of work which shall minimize public inconvenience
and disturbance.
      5.   Measures necessary to protect adjacent public and private property.
      6.   Measures necessary to protect public utilities.
      7.   Measures necessary to control noise, dust, debris and terms of
required cleanup during and after the work.
      8.   Requirements with respect to surface monuments and survey markers.
      9.   Licensing requirements where deemed necessary or required by law.
(Ord. 283, 1-20-1998)
7-5-4: RELOCATION OF FACILITIES:
   A.   Legislative Findings And Declarations: The Board of Trustees finds and
declares:
      1.   The underground relocation ("undergrounding") of overhead lines,
wires and cables used for the distribution of electricity or the transmission
of telecommunications services, along with the removal of utility poles from
any public way serves a wide variety of important public purposes.
      2.   Undergrounding enhances public safety by: removing obstructions in
the public right-of-way, mitigating the risk of vehicular collisions with
utility poles; improving the sight lines for vehicular and pedestrian traffic
along roadways; and mitigating the risk of hazards associated with negligent or
inadvertent contact with overhead lines.
      3.   Undergrounding enhances the appearance and aesthetics of the Town
by: removing unsightly lines and poles from public view; improving scenic
vistas in and around Town parks and natural areas, and within the Town's
residential and commercial neighborhoods generally; and allowing the Town's
tree canopy to flourish without conflict with overhead utility lines.
      4.   Undergrounding enhances the safety and security of the electric and
telecommunications lines themselves by protecting the lines from damage due to
inclement weather or accidents, and thus preserves the continuity and
reliability of electric and telecommunications services to the public at large.
      5.   As a home rule municipality, Morrison exercises broad inherent
authority to regulate the use of Town streets, alleys, parks, and other Town-
owned property under the police power.
      6.   In addition, the Colorado Supreme Court has repeatedly recognized
the authority of municipalities to require the relocation of public utilities
at the utility's expense in conjunction with Municipal efforts to improve
public property.
   B.   Definitions: The following terms are defined for purposes of this
chapter:
   FACILITIES: Means and includes any and all cables, lines, pipes and
appurtenant and supporting equipment and structures located within any public
way or Town-owned property when such facilities are not owned by the Town.
   PERMITTEE: Means and includes all persons and entities who are the owners of
facilities located in any public way or any and Town property under this
chapter.
   C.   Permit Required: Pursuant to section
7-5-2 of this chapter, a permit from the Town is required for the location or
relocation of facilities within Town property or any public way.
   D.   Relocation Required: The Town may request relocation of or complete a
public project in town facilities under the following conditions:
      1.   In order to allow the Town to make any public use of or complete a
public project in town streets or public ways, or
      2.   If at any time it shall become necessary because of a change in the
grade or by reason of improving, repairing, constructing, maintaining any
street or public way water main, sanitary sewer, or storm sewer located
therein, or for reasons of traffic conditions, public safety or reason of
installation of any type of structure of public improvement by the Town or
other public agency or special district, or any general program for the
undergrounding of such facilities, to move or change the permittee's facilities
within or adjacent to streets or public ways in any manner, either temporarily
or permanently.
   E.   Relocation Procedure:
      1.   Relocation Time Frame: Except in the case of emergencies, the Town
shall provide a permittee with at least ninety (90) days' advance notice of the
Town's need to relocate the permittee's facilities. The permittee shall
thereupon accomplish the necessary relocation, removal or change within a
reasonable time from the date of the notification, but in no event later than
three (3) working days prior to the date the Town has notified the permittee
that it intends to commence its work or immediately in the case of emergencies.
      2.   Failure To Relocate: Upon the permittee's failure to accomplish such
work, the Town or other public agency or special district may perform such work
at the permittee's expense and the permittee shall reimburse the Town or other
agency within thirty (30) days after receipt of a written invoice for such
expense. The permittee's obligation to bear the expense of relocation shall
also include costs incurred by the Town as a consequence of delay by permittee
in relocating its facilities. Unpaid expense invoices may be collected by the
Town in the same manner allowed for collection of delinquent charges,
assessments or taxes, including certification to the County Treasurer under
Colorado Revised Statutes 30-20-105 for collection in the same manner as ad
valorem taxes.
      3.   After Relocation: Following relocation, all affected property shall
be restored to, at a minimum, the condition which existed prior to construction
by the permittee, and at the permittee's expense.
      4.   Underground Relocation Of Overhead Facilities: Whenever the Town
exercises the authority to request the underground relocation of overhead
electric distribution facilities under the Town's electric utility franchise,
the Town shall likewise require the permittee of any overhead
telecommunications facilities to relocate such facilities underground or, at
the permittee's option, remove the permittee's facilities entirely from that
location. The permittee shall complete any such underground relocation or
removal project at the permittee's sole expense within a reasonable time, not
to exceed ninety (90) days from the date upon which the Town makes a written
demand upon the permittee to relocate or remove the telecommunications
facilities.
      5.   Interfering Facilities: The Town may also order the underground
relocation or removal of overhead facilities in any circumstance where the
facilities, whether located upon utility poles or otherwise, interfere with the
improvement of any public right-of-way or any Town-owned property. The
permittee shall complete any such underground relocation or removal project at
the permittee's sole expense within a reasonable time, not to exceed ninety
(90) days from the date upon which the Town makes a written demand upon the
permittee to relocate or remove the telecommunications facilities.
   F.   Planning Undergrounding Projects; Cooperation With Other Utilities:
Prior to making any written demand for removal or relocation of
telecommunications facilities as provided in subsection D of this section, the
Town shall provide to the permittee of any telecommunication facility the same
opportunity to be involved in advance planning and scheduling of undergrounding
projects as is provided to the permittee of the electric utility under the
Town's electric utility franchise. When undertaking any underground relocation
project, the Town and the permittee shall coordinate with any other utilities
or companies that have their facilities above ground to attempt to have all
facilities undergrounded as part of the same project. The Town will enforce the
provisions of its electric utility franchise requiring cooperation in the
undergrounding of electric distribution facilities and telecommunication
facilities as part of the same project where financially, technically and
operationally feasible.
(Ord. 465, 8-21-2018; amd. Ord. 491, 5-19-2020)
7-5-5: COMPLIANCE WITH OTHER TOWN LAWS AND REGULATIONS:
In complying with the requirements of this chapter, the permittee shall be
subject to any and all other Town laws and regulations, including all relevant
permitting requirements associated with excavations, construction, and
placement of structures on or under Town-owned property to the extent
applicable. (Ord. 465, 8-21-2018)
7-5-6: UNLAWFUL TO MAINTAIN OVERHEAD TELECOMMUNICATIONS LINES OR UTILITY POLES:
It shall be unlawful for any permittee to maintain overhead telecommunications
facilities in any location where the Town has requested the underground
relocation of electric distribution lines under the authority of the Town's
electric utility franchise, and where such electric distribution facilities
have in fact been relocated underground. It shall be unlawful for any permittee
to maintain overhead telecommunications facilities in any location where the
Town has ordered the permittee to relocate underground or remove the overhead
facilities on the basis that overhead facilities interfere with the improvement
of any public right-of-way or any other Town-owned property. Any permittee who
maintains overhead telecommunications facilities in defiance of the Town's
written demand to remove such lines and poles in accordance with this chapter
shall be subject to enforcement in the Municipal Court pursuant to title 1,
chapter 4 of this Code. Each day of a continuing violation hereof shall
constitute a separate offense. In addition, the Town may seek any appropriate
remedy for damages or equitable relief to secure compliance with this chapter
and to preserve the Town's interest in its public property. (Ord. 465, 8-21-
2018)
7-5-7: ENFORCEMENT AND APPEALS:
   A.   The Superintendent may issue stop work orders or suspend or revoke a
permit for violation of this or any other ordinance of the Town, violation of
any term or condition of the permit, violation of State law, failure to conform
to approved plans and specifications or for any other good cause, endangering
the health, safety or welfare of persons or property.
   B.   A stop work order shall be issued by the Superintendent to any person
or persons doing or causing any work to be done in the public way without a
permit where required or in violation of any provision of this chapter.
   C.   Any stop work order, suspension or revocation may be appealed to the
Board of Trustees by filing a written notice of appeal with the Superintendent
within ten (10) days of the action appealed from. Any stop work order,
suspension or revocation shall be effective upon delivery to the person working
in the public way or his agent or employee. (Ord. 283, 1-20-1998; amd. Ord.
465, 8-21-2018)
7-5-8: PENALTY:
If any person, including officers and agents of a corporation responsible for
its action or inaction, and the partners of a partnership, firm or joint
venture or managers or members of a limited liability company, shall violate or
cause the violation of any of the provisions of this chapter, they shall be
guilty of a separate offense for each day such violation continues or is
permitted, and upon conviction of such violation such person shall be punished
as provided in section
1-4-1 of this Code for each such violation.
(Ord. 283, 1-20-1998; amd. Ord. 465, 8-21-2018)
TITLE 8
WATER AND SEWER
CHAPTER 1
WATER SYSTEM
SECTION:
8-1-1: Policy And Purpose
8-1-2: Definitions
8-1-3: Administrative Provisions
8-1-4: Service Connections
8-1-5: Extension Policies
8-1-6: Rates, Charges And Fees
8-1-7: Service Charge And System Development Fee Schedule (Rep. by Ord. 298,
12-7-1999)
8-1-8: Billing And Payment
8-1-9: Mandatory Compliance; Penalties
8-1-10: Nontributary Ground Water
8-1-11: Water Conservation
8-1-12: Backflow Prevention And Cross-Connection Control Program
8-1-1: POLICY AND PURPOSE:
This chapter is hereby enacted for the preservation and promotion of the public
health, welfare and safety of the residents of the Town and of the public
generally, and for the preservation and promotion of the convenience, good
order, tranquility, prosperity, best interest, and general welfare of said
residents, and to encourage and facilitate the orderly growth and expansion of
the Town. (Ord. 171, 4-17-1985)
8-1-2: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this chapter, certain terms and words are herewith defined
as follows. Words used in the present tense include the future; words used in
the singular number include the plural and words in the plural include the
singular; "shall" is mandatory and not directory.
   ACTUAL COST: The actual project cost of any customer improvement shall mean
all direct costs applicable to the construction of a given facility, including
preliminary engineering, final design engineering, construction, acquisition of
any lands or easements required, job inspection, as built drawings and the
furnishing of a one year guarantee bond, and all other costs necessary for
completion.
   CUSTOMERS: Any persons, companies, corporations, government authorities or
agencies authorized to use the public water of the Town of Morrison under a
permit issued by the Board of Trustees. It shall not include any person or
entity located within the limits of a special district intended to provide
water service or such district itself.
   EQR: An abbreviation for an average single-family residence or an equivalent
residential unit from a utilities demand standpoint.
   ENGINEER OR TOWN ENGINEER: That registered engineer designated by the Town
to act in the Town's behalf.
   PERMIT: Written permission of the Board to connect to the public water main
in the Town of Morrison pursuant to the rules and regulations of the Town.
   SERVICE LINES: The corporation cock, the corporation valve and service pipe,
and other appurtenances required to deliver water to the customer from the
Town's main. All service lines shall be owned and maintained by the customer;
except, at the Town's election, the Town will maintain the water meter.
   STUB-IN: That part of the service line lying within the public right-of-way.
   TOWN: The Town of Morrison.
   USER: Any person, firm, corporation or government agency to whom water is
supplied.
   WATER MAIN: The principal arteries of the water system to which the service
lines may be connected. All water mains are to be owned, operated and
maintained by the Town of Morrison (except when those functions are assumed by
an approved quasi- municipal district) and must be located in dedicated streets
or easements.
   WATER SUPERINTENDENT: The water commissioner or the water superintendent of
the town or, in her/his absence, his/her duly authorized deputy.
   WATER TAP OR CONNECTION: The term "water tap" or "connection" shall mean the
physical process or act of connecting service lines to a water main or the
connection so produced. (Ord. 171, 4-17-1985)
8-1-3: ADMINISTRATIVE PROVISIONS:
   A.   Customer's Contract For Service And Termination:
      1.   Application Constitutes Contract: The town, through its board of
trustees, subject to subsection
8-1-4C of this chapter, will furnish water to customers within its corporate
limits (and not within the limits of a special district providing water
service) whose premises abut a street or alley or by easement across private
property in which a water main now is, or may hereafter be, laid; and may also
furnish water to persons whose premises are situated outside the corporate
limits of the town upon the prior express approval of the board of trustees.
The rules and regulations hereinafter named in this chapter and the provisions
regulating the water rates of the town shall be considered a part of every
application hereafter made for water service to the town, and shall be
considered a part of the contract between every customer now or hereafter
served by the town. Without further formality, the making of an application on
the part of any applicant for the use or consumption of water service, together
with the furnishing of water, and the furnishing of water to said applicant by
the town shall constitute a contract between the applicant and the town to
which contract both parties are bound.
      2.   Violation, Notice And Termination Of Service: If any customer shall
violate any of the provisions of this chapter or the provisions of any contract
or any rules or regulations relating to water service and charges therefor, the
town clerk shall notify the customer, in writing, of the violation, which
notice shall give the customer ten (10) days from date of such notice to
correct the violation or suffer termination of water service. Said notice shall
also state that the customer may, if he feels that no violation has occurred or
that he has a legitimate reason why his service should not be terminated,
petition the town board in writing filed with the town clerk within the ten
(10) day period to hold a hearing on his defenses. If a notified customer files
a petition within said ten (10) day period, the town board shall schedule a
hearing thereon and notify the customer thereof. If the customer appears for
the scheduled hearing, the town board shall hear his defenses and at that
meeting shall make a determination thereof. If the customer shall fail to
appear for the hearing, it shall be determined that he has waived his defenses
and the water superintendent shall terminate his water service the following
day. If, after hearing, the town board shall determine that the customer's
defenses are without merit, it shall inform the consumer of its determination
at the hearing. The customer shall thereafter have three (3) days in which to
correct said violation for which notice was given. If the consumer shall fail
to correct said violation within said three (3) day period, the water
superintendent shall terminate that customer's water service on the fourth day
following the hearing. After termination has occurred, no further connection
for water service to that customer shall again be made except by order of the
board of trustees and payment of applicable fees. Such termination shall be in
addition to any other rights or remedies the town may have.
   B.   Application For Service: Every prospective customer desiring a supply
of water shall make application therefor to the town clerk on blanks to be
furnished by the town clerk for that purpose. Before issuance of a building
permit for remodeling or expanding property to which service then exists, the
town clerk shall cause the application to be reviewed by the town engineer to
determine if such remodeling or expansion will increase potential demand
sufficiently to constitute a change of use. If change of use is determined,
then the application shall be treated as one for new service.
   C.   Use Limited To Single User: No customer shall supply water to other
buildings or premises or permit anyone to take water off his premises. After
water is introduced into any building or premises, no one shall make or cause
to be made any additional tap or branch onto or from the service line which
could serve another dwelling or other building or use other than that
permitted. (Ord. 171, 4-17-1985)
   D.   Cross Connections Prohibited:
      1.   No cross connections between the town water system and other water
supply or waste line shall be permitted. All customer plumbing shall be in
compliance with the Colorado state plumbing code and other regulations adopted
by the town. The town's authorized inspector shall have the right of access to
customer's premises for the purpose of inspecting customer plumbing during
construction, for routine inspection, to confirm compliance, or when there is
probable cause to believe a violation has occurred. No pumps or storage tanks,
except a hot water storage tank not larger than three hundred twenty (320)
gallon capacity, shall be installed in customer plumbing systems without the
town's prior written permission, and unless suitable (as determined by the town
engineer) increased system development fees are paid. Town board shall
determine, on a case by case basis, whether a customer must have a pressure
regulating valve and/or a backflow prevention valve. If required, the customer
shall pay for, and the town shall, at customer's expense, install the required
pressure regulating valve and/or backflow prevention valve. (Ord. 415, 1-6-
2015)
      2.   No outside faucet or hydrant shall be attached directly to any
service line without the installation of a curb stop placed in the line
immediately upstream of said hydrant. All hydrants shall be of the freezeproof
type.
   E.   Limiting Water Use: The town reserves the right to limit the use of
water in the event of system or supply problems. It shall be unlawful for any
consumer or customer to waste water, for example, permitting water to run down
streets, sidewalks or driveways or otherwise off the property.
   F.   Irrigation: All hoses used for sprinkling, irrigation or other purposes
shall be kept in good repair and used in a manner so as to prevent a waste of
water.
   G.   Fire Plugs: No water shall be used from the fire plugs except for the
extinguishment of fires and, with consent of the superintendent, by regularly
constituted fire departments for the purpose of cleaning, washing or testing
the engines or other apparatus. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the water
superintendent may let water therefrom when necessary for testing the condition
of the waterworks, for purifying the water or for repairing such works,
cleaning culverts or sprinkling streets.
   H.   Hours Set For Watering: The board of trustees shall have the power to
limit use of water for irrigation of lawns or other vegetation to certain days
and hours, which, in the discretion of its members, are consistent with the
supply of water and capabilities of the system.
   I.   Individual Wells: Where the town's water supply is reasonably
available, all development shall connect to the town's water system. No new
individual wells may be drilled or existing wells replaced or redrilled without
the express written consent of the town.
   J.   Source Protection: No persons shall trespass on or contaminate or
tamper with the town's raw water intake, reservoirs or other water facilities
or sources either within the town or within five (5) miles of the town's
limits. (Ord. 171, 4-17-1985)
8-1-4: SERVICE CONNECTIONS:
   A.   Cost Responsibility:
      1.   Installation Costs: All cost and expense in the installation and
connection of water service lines shall be borne by the customer.
      2.   Maintenance And Replacement: Each customer shall own and be
responsible for construction, maintenance and replacement of service lines.
Leaks or breaks in the service line shall be repaired by the property owner
within a reasonable period not to exceed twenty four (24) hours from the time
of notification of such condition by the town or such other reasonable time
period as the town may allow.
      3.   Failure To Repair: If satisfactory progress toward repairing said
leak has not been made by the time specified, the superintendent shall have the
authority to repair or have repaired the line at the cost of the owner.
      4.   Equipment Purchase: Customers shall purchase corporation cocks, curb
valves, meter and meter valves from the town or from an alternate supplier of
equipment meeting the same or higher specifications.
   B.   Individual Service Lines:
      1.   Separate Service Lines Required: Each individual structure
hereinafter connected shall pay any required system development fee and
connection charges and install separate service lines for each such structure.
Existing structures found to be jointly connected shall be required to install
separate service lines unless an exception be granted, upon sufficient
justification, by the town.
      2.   Lodging House Exception: Only one premises shall be supplied with
water through a single-service line connected to the Town distribution system,
except in the case of a hotel, motel, lodge, resort, apartment house or other
similar place of business under single ownership and reasonably operated as an
integrated unit or a condominium in which one person or association is
responsible for payment of water charges.
      3.   Common-Wall Units: Common-wall units with separate ownership and no
responsible association shall have separate service lines or, by approval of
the Board of Trustees, a common service line with individual curb stops in an
obvious and accessible location.
      4.   Separate Ownership Of Divided Premises: In the event that any
premises receiving water from the Town is subsequently divided into separate
ownership, each owner shall have a separate water service line connected to the
distribution main, and each additional user shall pay the water tap fee and
water service charges. Any work in running service lines to the distribution
main shall be done under the supervision of the Town.
   C.   Specifications: All materials and installations shall be in accordance
with regulations adopted by the Town. Service line installation shall be
inspected and approved by the Town Water Superintendent prior to backfill and
use. All taps and corporation cock installations shall be inspected by the
Water Superintendent prior to connection of the service line. The Water
Superintendent must approve in advance the tapping of a Town water main by any
person.
   D.   Meters: Meters shall be required to be installed at customer's expense.
      1.   Required: The Town may require, at its option, the metering of water
services both inside and outside the Town.
      2.   Ownership: All water meters and components are the property of the
Town.
      3.   Access: Customers shall provide access to meter components to
authorized Town representatives for inspection, testing and/or replacement.
      4.   Defective Operation: It shall be the duty of customers to notify the
Town if water meters and/or remote reader registers are operating defectively.
If any meter shall fail to register in any period, the customer shall be
charged twice the average period consumption during the two (2) preceding
periods as shown by the meter when deemed by the Town to be in working order.
In no case will this charge be less than twice the minimum prevailing water
service charge for the billing period. The Board shall require periodic
replacement of meters as needed to provide accurate measurement of water usage.
      5.   Cost: All costs for materials and labor relating to the
installation, repair or replacement of meters shall be the responsibility of
the customer and paid for by the customer.
      6.   Meter Vault Placement: Unless otherwise permitted by the Town,
customer meter vaults shall be placed in the service pipe between the curb line
and the property line. All meter vaults shall be placed in such a location that
they will not be damaged by vehicular traffic, snow removal or normal street
maintenance. There shall be a stop and waste cock or its equivalent in the
service line of all buildings at or near a point inside the building. Service
line construction shall conform to standard drawings adopted by the Town.
   E.   Liability Of Town: The Town shall not be liable for any claims or
damages arising from the water supply, treatment or distribution system, unless
that portion of the system causing such damage was under the exclusive control
and responsibility of the Town and then only in the event of the Town's
negligence. (Ord. 171, 4-17-1985)
8-1-5: EXTENSION POLICIES:
   A.   Inside Town; Procedure: This category shall include all lands within
the Town boundaries as of the effective date of the Ordinance codified in this
Chapter.
      1.   Land Platted Prior To Effective Date:
         a.   Preliminary Engineering Report: For lands which have been platted
previous to the effective date of the Ordinance codified in this Chapter,
owners shall pay the Town the cost of a preliminary engineering report for any
water main extension; this report shall describe and cost estimate the water
distribution system within or adjacent to the proposed development.
         b.   Financial Responsibility: Before final approval, the owner(s)
shall furnish to the Town sufficient monies or acceptable bonds or letters of
credit in the amount of the estimated actual cost of the water distribution
system.
         c.   Construction Costs: After receipt of the monies, or bonds or
letters of credit, at a time requested by the owner, the Town or the owner at
the Town's option, shall have constructed the water distribution system using
monies provided by the owner. Any remaining funds shall be returned to the
owner upon completion of the project. Any shortage shall be paid to the Town as
needed during construction and before any taps are permitted on the system.
      2.   Undeveloped Areas:
         a.   Preliminary Engineering Report: For those areas within the Town
which are undeveloped areas not served by a water district, the owner shall,
after the submission of a preliminary plat and before approval of the final
plat, pay to the Town the cost of a preliminary engineering report which will
describe and cost estimate the water distribution system within or adjacent to
the proposed plat.
         b.   Financial Responsibility: Before final plat approval, the owner
shall furnish to the Town sufficient monies or acceptable bonds or letters of
credit in the amount of the estimated actual cost of the water distribution
system.
         c.   Construction Costs: After plat approval and at the time agreed to
by the Town, the Town, or the owner at the Town's option, shall have
constructed the water distribution system using monies provided by the owner.
Any remaining funds shall be returned to the owner at the completion of the
project. Any shortage shall be paid to the Town as needed and before any taps
are permitted on the system.
      3.   Water System Deed: At the Town's option, developers or customers who
have been issued taps shall deed the Town the entire water system, including
any easements after it has been completed and accepted, without cost to the
Town.
   B.   Areas Outside Existing Town Limits; Procedures: This category includes
all areas outside the Town limits (as of the effective date of the Ordinance
codified in this Chapter) and whose owners petition for water service and/or
annexation. Procedures to be followed for providing service to these areas are
as follows:
      1.   Owner Request:
         a.   The owner of the land desiring water service (applicant) shall
request such service in writing. Information furnished shall include:
            (1)   Description of area to be served;
            (2)   Description of proposed development;
            (3)   Timing of development;
            (4)   Probable flow requirements.
         b.   This written application will then be reviewed by the Town, which
may refuse the application at its discretion.
      2.   Feasibility Report: If the Town Board indicates probable
favorability to serve, then the applicant shall have prepared an engineering
feasibility report. This report may be arranged for through the Town Engineer
or may be prepared by an engineer selected by the applicant, in which case the
applicant shall pay the costs of report review by the Town's engineer; if legal
considerations must be investigated, then this work shall be accomplished
through the Town, by its attorney, at the applicant's expense. The applicant
shall deposit with the Town Clerk an estimated dollar amount to cover
anticipated legal and engineering expenses. Report information shall include,
but not be limited to, the following:
         a.   Refinement of information included in the original letter of
application.
         b.   Preliminary designs and cost estimates for any water treatment,
transmission or storage facilities required (as shown in subsection A above) to
be added on account of service to the applicant area.
         c.   The water rights to be provided to the Town (which must be found
adequate by the Town for the proposed development).
         d.   Preliminary designs and cost estimates of water distribution
system required.
         e.   Preliminary design and cost estimates of connection methods to
the Morrison systems.
         f.   Hydraulic and functional analyses of the combined systems which
will show the effect of the added areas on Morrison's existing facilities.
         g.   System development fees, contributions-in-aid-of- construction,
and legal conditions required in a contract for service.
      3.   Contract For Service: The Town Board and applicant will review the
report, and, if the conditions for service are mutually agreeable, then the
applicant shall enter into a contract for utilities service prepared by the
Town's Attorney. Such contract shall at least require:
         a.   Payment of system development fees in accordance with the rate
schedule.
         b.   Additional dollar contributions required for connecting water
lines (from the existing Town system to the proposed development).
         c.   Service charge will be one and seventy five one-hundredths (1.75)
times the current in-Town rate until the area is annexed.
         d.   All water distribution lines shall be paid for by the petitioner
and shall be built to Town quality standards as a minimum. Lines will be
installed by the Town or by the developer at the Town's option. If the
developer chooses to install the lines, drawings and specifications must be
approved by the Town's Engineer. The work must be inspected by the Town's
inspector. Line sizes must be inspected by the Town's master planning. The
developer is to pay actual project costs, including preliminary engineering,
final design engineering, review, job inspection, as-built drawings, surveys,
easements, etc. If the area is to be annexed, the Town shall have approved the
design and construction of all facilities, with the developer paying actual
project costs. Procedures are to be similar to those described in subsection A2
of this section.
         e.   The water distribution system including easements after it has
been completed and accepted, shall be the property of the Town.
         f.   The service area customers shall agree to abide by all the fees
and regulations governing use of the Town's systems.
         g.   The conveyance of adequate acceptable water rights to the Town or
at the Town's option, cash in lieu thereof.
      4.   Rebate Provisions:
         a.   Whenever an owner is required to invest in connecting
transmission lines that may later also serve future development or for
distribution lines that can also service other abutting property owners, the
Town will enter into a rebate agreement which will provide that:
            (1)   The total rebate shall not exceed the original actual cost of
the subject line, without interest.
            (2)   Rebates shall be payable only from one-third (1/3) of the
applicable system development fees collected for connections to the subject
lines.
            (3)   If connections are not made directly to the subject line, the
Town will establish a "percent applicability" for partial rebate.
         b.   When the developer is required to pay for the oversized lines,
the Town will rebate the cost of oversize with money obtained from not more
than one-third (1/3) of the system development fees paid by future customers
utilizing the oversized capacity.
         c.   Lines will be considered oversized only when they have capacities
exceeding the needs of the subject proposed development and are intended to
accommodate other development. Lines eight inches (8") in diameter and smaller
will not be considered as oversized.
         d.   No rebate agreement shall extend for a period longer than five
(5) years. (Ord. 171, 4-17-1985)
      5.   Extraterritorial Water Service Extension Policy: Notwithstanding
anything in this title to the contrary, the Town of Morrison will provide
extraterritorial water service only under the terms, conditions and limitations
of this subsection B5.
         a.   Findings:
            (1)   The Board of Trustees has authority pursuant to the Charter
and Colorado Revised Statutes 31-15-701, et seq., to adopt regulations,
policies and procedures governing the operation the Town's water system,
including extensions of that system outside of the Town boundaries; and
            (2)   The Board of Trustees finds and declares that the extension
of water service outside Town boundaries shall be and is at the discretion of
the Board of Trustees, taking into consideration the Town's limited existing
water supplies, the constraints imposed upon those supplies by the Town's water
right priorities and the annual flow conditions in the Town's sources of
supply; and
            (3)   The Board of Trustees finds and declares that the Town's
limited water supplies are and will be further constrained by a decrease in
water supply brought about as a result of existing and future climate change,
which the Board of Trustees finds to be a major constraint on the ability of
the Town to provide water supply to future customers outside of the Town; and
            (4)   The Board of Trustees finds and declares that the Board's
primary responsibility to provide water supply to customers within the Town
limits who are entitled to demand such supply further constrains the Town's
ability to provide water supply, or extensions of existing supplies, to
customers outside of the boundaries of the Town.
            (5)   The Board of Trustees finds and declares that the Town is not
a general public provider of treated water outside the Town corporate limits,
the Town's provision of water to certain properties outside those limits being
restricted to specific properties, under specific conditions of
intergovernmental agreements.
         b.   Extension Of Treated Water Supplies: The Town may only permit the
extension of treated water supplies outside of the existing Town boundaries on
a case-by-case basis, and upon a finding by the Board of Trustees that all of
the following conditions have been met:
            (1)   That the Town has available to it sufficient raw water
supplies, taking into consideration the limitations on those supplies described
in subsection B5a, "Findings", of this section, to supply the proposed
extension;
            (2)   That the proposed extension will not overburden, as found by
the Board of Trustees in the Board's sole discretion, the Town's water supply
capacity or the Town's existing and proposed water treatment facilities; and
            (3)   That the user and/or proposed use of the treated water
advances an interest of the Town of Morrison and the Town's residents, and is
not solely for the benefit of an extraterritorial user whose activities do not
immediately and directly benefit the Town; and
            (4)   That supply of the treated water to the proposed
extraterritorial user will not result in injury, damage or excessive cost to
the Town or to its water supply, treatment and delivery system; and
            (5)   That all costs of providing treated water to the
extraterritorial user, including the development of and maintenance of raw
water supplies, their legal defense, the transmission of those water supplies
for treatment, the costs of treatment and delivery of those supplies to the
proposed extraterritorial user, are all fully recovered from the
extraterritorial user and will be recovered into the future as costs increase.
         c.   Map Adoption: The Board of Trustees hereby adopts the "Town of
Morrison Extraterritorial Water Service Extension Map" as exhibit A on file in
the Town and fully incorporated herein by this reference.
         d.   Map Depiction: The Town of Morrison Extraterritorial Water
Service Extension Map depicts the following extraterritorial water service
areas within which the Town may provide service subject to all of the
limitations described:
            (1)   Red Rocks Park Limited Service Area: Service to this supply
area is limited exclusively to the amount, use and timing of extraterritorial
treated water service set forth in the Intergovernmental Agreement between the
Town of Morrison and the City and County of Denver dated March 17, 2016. No
additional service, extension of service or modification of such service may be
approved without approval by the Board of Trustees as an amendment to that IGA.
            (2)   Denver Mountain Parks Limited Service Area: Service to this
supply area is limited exclusively to the amount, use and timing of
extraterritorial treated water service set forth in the Intergovernmental
Agreement between the Town of Morrison and the City and County of Denver dated
July 24, 2007. No additional service, extension of service or modification of
such service may be approved without approval by the Board of Trustees as an
amendment to that IGA.
         e.   Mt. Carbon MD Service Area: The Town presently is obligated to
provide treated water to the Mount Carbon Metropolitan District to the area on
the exhibit A on file in the Town, which area is presently within the Municipal
limits of the Town. Service to this supply area is limited exclusively to
service provided through the Mt. Carbon Metropolitan District pursuant to that
certain Intergovernmental Agreement dated October 27, 2008, as amended. No
further service extensions in this area shall be permitted without an amendment
to that IGA, in the sole and exclusive discretion of the Board of Trustees.
(Ord. 451, 2-6-2018)
   C.   Timing: The Board may prohibit any taps and may defer permits until, in
its opinion, an adequate water supply and treatment facilities are available to
serve the proposed or subject development.
   D.   Extensions To Property Line: All extensions constructed under this
chapter shall be installed to the far side of the property or to such other
location agreed to by the Town in order that the water system may be continued.
   E.   New Development: An application for water service in a new development
may only be approved if the planned average density does not exceed that
provided for in the zoning ordinance 1  of the Town. Further, the proposed
density shall not exceed two (2.0) EQR/acre unless the developer provides,
prior to any approval, firm water rights to the Town, at the developer's sole
expense sufficient to support the additional density. For small developments,
at the Town's discretion, cash contributions may be substituted for actual
water rights. (Ord. 171, 4-17-1985)
 
Notes
1 1. See title 10 of this Code.
8-1-6: RATES, CHARGES AND FEES:
   A.   Adopt By Resolution: The Board of Trustees of the Town shall have the
right and power to adopt by resolution, a schedule of rates and charges for the
use of water and amend the same by resolution any time it deems proper. Water
system development fees and service charges shall be subject to the Town
Board's approval according to use. A change in usage classification shall mean
a change in fees.
   B.   Water Hauling Facilities: Any facility providing water which is to be
transported to another location for use must be a metered usage and charged at
a rate per thousand gallons as determined by Town resolution.
   C.   Out Of Town Customers: All charges for services or water provided to
customers living outside the Town limits shall be computed at one and seventy
five one-hundredths (1.75) times the rate charged to in Town users. The Town
reserves the right to discontinue water supply to out of Town users in case of
emergency at any time without prior notice. (Ord. 171, 4-17-1985)
   D.   System Development Fees:
      1.   Water System Development Fee: There is hereby established and
authorized to be imposed a water system development fee for the privilege of
connecting with the Town's water system. The amount of this fee and basis for
calculation shall be determined, and may be revised from time to time by the
Board of Trustees, by resolution, after giving due consideration to the value,
equity and investment in the water system and facilities and future expansion
requirements.
      2.   Water Resource Fee: There is hereby established a water resource
fee. The amount and basis for calculation of this fee shall be determined, and
may be revised from time to time by the Board of Trustees, by resolution, after
giving due consideration to the acquisition costs, development costs, current
value and investment in the Town's water rights. (Ord. 237, 12-1-1992)
      3.   Reassessment Of System Development Fees:
         a.   The initial system development fee is an estimate of actual
demand based upon recognized standards for similar uses. Individual customer
uses may vary substantially from these recognized standards based upon fixtures
and appliances used, increases or decreases in the business, size or capacity
of the user not subject to normal review, more or less conservative use
practices and other causes. (Ord. 342, 12-5-2006)
         b.   The Utility Supervisor, based upon a review of metered usage, or
upon any other reasonable cause, may audit the customer's premises and usage to
determine if a reasonable basis exists to adjust system development fees. Upon
determining that system development fees should be increased, the Utilities
Supervisor shall provide written notice to the customer. The customer shall be
advised of the opportunity to pay such new fees as are assessed according to a
mutually agreeable schedule not to exceed three (3) years. (Ord. 384, 10-18-
2011)
         c.   The audit referenced in subsection D3b of this section may be
conducted not sooner than two (2) years from the date of commencement for a
new, changed or expanded use and may be conducted no more frequently than once
every twenty four (24) months thereafter.
         d.   If the customer disagrees with the determination of the Utility
Supervisor, he or she may appeal such determination to the Board of Trustees by
submitting a written notice of appeal to the Town Clerk not more than thirty
(30) days after the date of the original notification of reassessment. Such
matter will be heard by the Board of Trustees not more than sixty (60) days
after the date of the appeal. (Ord. 342, 12-5-2006)
   E.   Water Service Charge: Service charges shall be as set or revised by
resolution of the Town Board from time to time as deemed necessary. Two-thirds
(2/3) of the monthly service charge shall commence one hundred twenty (120)
days after an application and permit for water tap is approved by the Town and
shall be charged until the first day of the month in which a water tap to the
property is made and water service is available.
   F.   Connection Inspection Charge: This charge shall be set administratively
by the Water Superintendent, subject to Board approval. It shall cover only the
Town's actual cost of inspecting the service line.
   G.   Noncontinuous Service:
      1.   Water service charges are made on an all year basis. Property
temporarily unoccupied must pay for service continuously.
      2.   If a property is to be vacated permanently or over a long time
period, the owner shall notify the Town to disconnect service. Service may
later be reinitiated upon payment of either of the following fees, at the
owner's discretion:
         a.   The standard system development fee, as provided herein; or
         b.   A fee of twenty five dollars ($25.00) plus seventy five percent
(75%) of all the flat rate service charges, or one hundred percent (100%) of
the base metered rate, which would have been paid by the customer from the time
of notice to discontinue service to the time of service reinstatement.
Note: If the property usage changes in the interim period (hence changing the
system development fee or service charge amounts) subsection G2a of this
section shall be computed in the new use while subsection G2b of this section
shall be computed under the old use. (Ord. 171, 4-17-1985)
8-1-7: SERVICE CHARGE AND SYSTEM DEVELOPMENT FEE SCHEDULE:
(Rep. by Ord. 298, 12-7-1999)
8-1-8: BILLING AND PAYMENT:
   A.   Billing:
      1.   a. Statements for all charges for water service usage shall be
rendered within ten (10) days of the close of each billing month. The Water
Superintendent shall be authorized to modify the monthly reading date for each
customer to accommodate the need to record metered usage, but he shall, to the
best of his ability ensure that each customer's monthly usage is recorded and
billed in twelve (12) equivalent calendar periods.
         b.   The Town Administrator shall, upon application of a customer,
authorize billing or payment at more or less frequent intervals than monthly
or, in appropriate cases, authorize billing at a uniform rate (budget billing)
throughout the year ensuring, however, that at all times the customer's account
is either current or in credit balance.
         c.   Any accrued but unpaid charges for late payments, service line
repairs or other services chargeable within the scope of this Chapter shall be
added to each statement.
      2.   At the Board of Trustees' discretion, the foregoing reading and
billing schedule may be modified by resolution to a bimonthly or quarterly
schedule by multiplying the monthly base rate and monthly base usage by the
number of months in the revised billing period, upon at least sixty (60) days
notice to the customer of the change.
      3.   a. All billings shall be due within fifteen (15) days of mailing or
presentment and shall be delinquent thereafter.
         b.   Any delinquent accounts shall be charged an interest rate of
eighteen percent (18%) per annum on the unpaid portion. Bills not paid shall be
subject to the provisions of subsections
 8-1-3A2 and 8-1-9B of this Chapter.
         c.   Until paid, all rates, tolls, fees, and charges shall constitute
a first and perpetual lien on and against the property served, and any such
lien may be foreclosed in the manner provided by law. (Ord. 298, 12-7-1999)
   B.   Owner Liable For Payment: The property owner is responsible for payment
of all charges or fees of the Town. The Town is not bound by any agreement made
between landlords and tenants, regardless of how made, whether or not the Town
has been notified of such agreement. The Town will hold the property owner
liable for all charges for water service to the property. (Ord. 171, 4-17-1985)
8-1-9: MANDATORY COMPLIANCE; PENALTIES:
   A.   Compliance Requisite; Applicability: These fees and regulations shall
apply to all property owners within the boundaries of the Town not served by a
water district, whether the property is connected to the Town's water system or
not, and shall, in addition, apply to owners outside the Town not served by a
water district who are furnished water service by the Town. No connection to
the Town's water system shall be permitted until the property owners shall have
agreed to abide by the fees as they may, from time to time, be set and these
regulations as they exist at time of connection and as subsequently amended.
   B.   Penalties:
      1.   It shall be unlawful for any person to violate any of the provisions
of this Chapter. Any person who violates a provision of this Title shall be
subject to penalty as provided in Section
1-4-1 of this Code.
      2.   In the event any owner or owners of any lot, parcel of land or any
real property within the legal boundaries of the Town shall neglect, fail or
refuse to pay the charge or fees fixed by this Title, the Town may pursue any
remedy available at law or equity to enforce and collect the fee or charge. The
Town may also recover, in addition to service fees due, all court costs,
attorney fees and interest on the amount owing.
      3.   In the event of a violation consisting of other than failure to pay
charges or fees, the Town may also seek any available legal or equitable
remedy. (Ord. 171, 4-17-1985; amd. Ord. 261, 4-16-1996)
8-1-10: NONTRIBUTARY GROUND WATER:
   A.   Ground Water Underlying Lands: All nontributary ground water,
including, but not limited to, the Dawson, Denver, Arapahoe, Laramie-Fox Hills
and Dakota aquifers underlying or which may underlie lands included within the
corporate limits of the Town as of the effective date hereof is hereby
incorporated into the Municipal water system of the Town.
   B.   Drilling And Extraction Prohibited: The drilling of any water well and
installation of any water well casing or pump by any person within the
corporate limits of the town is hereby expressly prohibited without the written
consent of the town. For any water well not in existence on the effective date
hereof, the extraction or diversion of water from any such water well within
the corporate limits of the town by any person is hereby expressly prohibited
without the written consent of the town. The provisions of this section shall
not apply to water wells constructed by or under the direction of the town.
(Ord. 182, 11-6-1985)
   C.   Town Administrator's Duties: The town administrator is directed to take
any requisite action necessary to perfect, preserve and protect the interest of
the town in the nontributary groundwater underlying the lands included within
the corporate limits of the town and to take appropriate actions to incorporate
said groundwater into the water system of the town. (Ord. 182, 11-6-1985; amd.
Ord. 420, 6-2-2015)
   D.   Violation:
      1.   It shall be unlawful to drill or install any water well or pump to
extract or divert any water from such wells or pump within the corporate limits
of the town in violation of the terms of this chapter from and after the
effective date hereof. Any person including the officers or agents of a
corporation responsible for its actions and the members of the partnership,
firm or venture, violating or causing violation of this chapter or amendment
hereto, upon conviction thereof, shall be subject to penalty as provided in
section
1-4-1 of this code. Each day during which such violation continues shall be
deemed a separate offense.
      2.   In addition to other remedies and penalties provided in this chapter
or by law, the town may institute injunction, mandamus, abatement or other
proceedings to prevent, enjoin, abate or remove such violation. (Ord. 182, 11-
6-1985; amd. Ord. 261, 4-16-1996)
8-1-11: WATER CONSERVATION:
   A.   Delegation Of Authority:
      1.   The board of trustees hereby delegates to the director of public
works for the town of Morrison the authority to declare a water emergency and
to impose such restrictions and limitations upon water use by customers of the
Morrison water system as may in his judgment be necessary or prudent.
      2.   Such restrictions or limitations may include, by way of example only
and not by way of limitation, the following:
         a.   Limitation of outdoor irrigation use to certain days or hours or
elimination of outdoor irrigation use.
         b.   Limitation or elimination of all other domestic outdoor uses
including car washing, and washing of sidewalks and driveways.
         c.   Limitation or elimination of water use for dust control or other
industrial or commercial uses.
         d.   Limitation or elimination of operation of commercial car washes.
      3.   To supplement and enforce such limitations and restrictions, the
following additional authority is granted:
         a.   To impose maximum rates of consumption for each customer.
         b.   To impose surcharges for monthly use in excess of consumption
limitations not to exceed three (3) times the regular rate for each gallon of
water without further approval of the board of trustees, in addition to any
other penalties that may apply.
   B.   Criteria: The director of public works shall review the following
criteria in determining the limitations or restrictions to be applied:
      1.   Adequacy of current raw water supply.
      2.   Adequacy of projected raw water supply.
      3.   Current and future projected demand.
      4.   Current and projected supply in storage.
      5.   Relative health and safety impacts of limitation and restrictions
among uses.
      6.   Relative economic impacts upon the town and the customers of
restrictions and limitations upon uses.
      7.   Water treatment limitations.
      8.   Other factors proper to be considered in the reasonable judgment of
the Director of Public Works. (Ord. 317, 7-9-2002)
   C.   Notice: The Director of Public Works shall provide prompt and
reasonable notice to all water system customers of restrictions or limitations
imposed by him. Such notice shall be given:
      1.   Notice hand delivered or delivered by regular U.S. mail properly
addressed to each customer's billing address as shown in the Town's water
billing records.
      2.   Notice posted at the usual location for posting official notices of
the Town and on the Town's website.
      3.   Dissemination of the notice by other Town media including the
Morrison Messenger, if available.
      4.   Morrison employees shall be encouraged to provide restrictions in
the course of public contacts and of the reasons for such actions.
      5.   Such other forms of notice as are reasonable in the judgment of the
Director of Public Works. (Ord. 350, 7-17-2007)
   D.   Penalties; Warning:
      1.   Penalties:
         a.   Violation of restrictions or limitations upon water consumption
imposed by authority of the Director of Public Works may be punished pursuant
to subsection
8-1-9B of this chapter and section
1-4-1 of this Code.
         b.   Collection of consumption surcharges imposed by the Director of
Public Works shall be in accordance with subsection
8-1-9B2 of this chapter.
         c.   Notwithstanding any other penalty, the Town may seek termination
of service in the event of flagrant or continued violation of restrictions or
limitations.
         d.   All remedies or penalties the Town may have for violations shall
be cumulative and application of one remedy shall not foreclose other remedies
or penalties.
      2.   Warning: No summons shall issue nor other enforcement action
commence until written notice of violation has first been given to the
customer, a resident at the customer's billing address over the age of eighteen
(18), or an employee or agent of the customer upon the premises where the
violation occurred, or by written notice sent certified mail to the customer's
billing address. (Ord. 317, 7-9-2002)
8-1-12: BACKFLOW PREVENTION AND CROSS-CONNECTION CONTROL PROGRAM:
   A.   Purpose: The purpose of this section is to protect the Town's water
system from contaminants or pollutants that could enter the distribution system
by backflow from a customer's water supply system through the service
connection.
   B.   Authority And Implementation:
      1.   The authority to implement this program is contained in State
Statutes, legislation, and regulations, including but not limited to article 1-
114 and article 1-114.1 of title 25 of the Colorado Revised Statutes (CRS),
section 39 of 5 CCR 1002-11, Colorado Primary Drinking Water Regulations and
the Colorado Plumbing Code.
      2.   The Town shall have the authority to survey all service connections
within the distribution system to determine if the connection is a cross-
connection.
      3.   The Town shall have the authority to control all service connections
within the distribution system if the connection is a cross-connection.
      4.   The Town may control any service connections within the distribution
system in lieu of a survey as long as the service connection is controlled with
an air gap or reduced pressure zone backflow prevention assembly.
      5.   The Town may collect fees for the administration of this program.
      6.   The Town shall maintain records of cross-connection surveys and the
installation, testing and repair of all backflow prevention assemblies
installed for containment and containment by isolation purposes.
      7.   Except as otherwise provided herein, the Town shall administer,
implement and enforce the provisions of this section.
   C.   Applicability: This section applies to all commercial, industrial and
multi-family residential service connections within the Town and to any persons
outside the Town who are, by contract or agreement with the Town, users of the
Town water system. This section does not apply to single-family- residential
service connections unless the Town becomes aware of a cross connection at the
single family connection.
   D.   Definitions:
   ACTIVE DATE: Means the first day that a backflow prevention assembly or
backflow prevention method is used to control a cross-connection in each
calendar year.
   AIR GAP: Is a physical separation between the free flowing discharge end of
a potable water supply pipeline and an open or non-pressure receiving vessel
installed in accordance with standard AMSE A112.1.2.
   BACKFLOW: Means the undesirable reversal of flow of water or mixtures of
water and other liquids, gases or other substances into the Town water system's
distribution system from any source or sources other than its intended source.
   BACKFLOW CONTAMINATION EVENT: Means backflow into the Town water system from
an uncontrolled cross connection such that the water quality no longer meets
the Colorado Primary Drinking Water Regulations or presents an immediate health
and/or safety risk to the public.
   BACKFLOW PREVENTION ASSEMBLY: Means any mechanical assembly installed at a
water service line or at a plumbing fixture to prevent a backflow contamination
event, provided that the mechanical assembly is appropriate for the identified
contaminant at the cross connection and is an in-line field- testable assembly.
   BACKFLOW PREVENTION METHOD: Means any method and/or non- testable device
installed at a water service line or at a plumbing fixture to prevent a
backflow contamination event, provided that the method or non-testable device
is appropriate for the identified contaminant at the cross connection.
   CERTIFIED CROSS-CONNECTION CONTROL TECHNICIAN: Means a person who possesses
a valid Backflow Prevention Assembly Tester certification from one of the
following approved organizations: American Society of Sanitary Engineering
(ASSE) or the American Backflow Prevention Association (ABPA). If a
certification has expired, the certification is invalid.
   CONTAINMENT: Means the installation of a backflow prevention assembly or a
backflow prevention method at any connection to the Town water system that
supplies an auxiliary water system, location, facility, or area such that
backflow from a cross connection into the Town water system is prevented.
   CONTAINMENT BY ISOLATION: Means the installation of backflow prevention
assemblies or backflow prevention methods at all cross connections identified
within a customer's water system such that backflow from a cross connection
into the Town water system is prevented.
   CONTROLLED: Means having a properly installed, maintained, and tested or
inspected backflow prevention assembly or backflow prevention method that
prevents backflow through a cross connection.
   CROSS CONNECTION: Means any connection that could allow any water, fluid, or
gas such that the water quality could present an unacceptable health and/or
safety risk to the public, to flow from any pipe, plumbing fixture, or a
customer's water system into a public water system's distribution system or any
other part of the Town water system through backflow.
   MULTI-FAMILY: Means a single residential connection to the Town water
system's distribution system from which two (2) or more separate dwelling units
are supplied water.
   SINGLE-FAMILY: Means:
      1.   A residential structure which is occupied by a single family and is
supplied by a separate water service line; or
      2.   A residential structure comprised of multiple living units where
each living unit is supplied by a separate water service line.
   UNCONTROLLED: Means not having a properly installed and maintained and
tested or inspected backflow prevention assembly or backflow prevention method,
or the backflow prevention assembly or backflow prevention method does not
prevent backflow through a cross connection.
   WATER SUPPLY SYSTEM: Means a water distribution system, piping, connection
fittings, valves and appurtenances within a building, structure, or premises.
Water supply systems are also referred to commonly as premises plumbing
systems.
   E.   Requirements:
      1.   Commercial, industrial and multi-family service connections shall be
subject to a survey for cross connections. If a cross connection has been
identified an appropriate backflow prevention assembly and or method shall be
installed at the customer's water service connection within one hundred twenty
(120) days of its discovery. The assembly shall be installed downstream of the
water meter or as close to that location as deemed practical by the Town. If
the assembly or method cannot be installed within one hundred twenty (120) days
the Town must take action to control or remove the cross connection, suspended
service to the cross connection or receive an alternative compliance schedule
from the Colorado Department of Public Health and Environment.
      2.   In no case shall it be permissible to have connections or tees
between the meter and the containment backflow prevention assembly.
         a.   In instances where a reduced pressure principle backflow
preventer cannot be installed, the owner must install approved backflow
prevention devices or methods at all cross- connections within the owner's
plumbing system.
      3.   Backflow prevention assemblies and methods shall be installed in a
location which provides access for maintenance, testing and repair.
      4.   Reduced pressure principle backflow preventers shall not be
installed in a manner subject to flooding.
      5.   Provision shall be made to provide adequate drainage from the
discharge of water from reduced pressure principle backflow prevention
assemblies. Such discharge shall be conveyed in a manner which does not impact
waters of the State.
      6.   All assemblies and methods shall be protected to prevent freezing.
Those assemblies and methods used for seasonal services may be removed in lieu
of being protected from freezing. The assemblies and methods must be
reinstalled and then tested by a certified cross-connection control technician
upon reinstallation.
      7.   Where a backflow prevention assembly or method is installed on a
water supply system using storage water heating equipment such that thermal
expansion causes an increase in pressure, a device for controlling pressure
shall be installed.
      8.   All backflow prevention assemblies shall be tested at the time of
installation and on an annual schedule thereafter. Such tests must be conducted
by a certified cross-connection control technician.
      9.   The Town shall require inspection, testing, maintenance and as
needed repairs and replacement of all backflow prevention assemblies and
methods, and of all required installations within the owner's plumbing system
in the cases where containment assemblies and/or methods cannot be installed.
      10.   All costs for design, installation, maintenance, testing and as
needed repair and replacement are to be borne by the customer.
      11.   This section applies to all existing commercial and multifamily
structures, except for fire sprinkler systems where the installation of a
backflow prevention assembly or method will compromise the integrity of the
fire sprinkler system.
      12.   For new buildings, all building plans must be submitted to the Town
and approved prior to the issuance of water service. Building plans must show:
         a.   Water service type, size and location.
         b.   Meter size and location.
         c.   Backflow prevention assembly size, type and location.
         d.   Fire sprinkler system(s) service line, size and type of backflow
prevention assembly.
            (1)   All fire sprinkling lines shall have a minimum protection of
an approved double check valve assembly for containment of the system.
            (2)   All glycol (ethylene or propylene), or antifreeze systems
shall have an approved reduced pressure principle backflow preventer for
containment.
            (3)   Dry fire systems shall have an approved double check valve
assembly installed upstream of the air pressure valve.
            (4)   In cases where the installation of a backflow prevention
assembly or method will compromise the integrity of the fire sprinkler system
the Town can choose to not require the backflow protection. The Town will
measure chlorine residual at location representative of the service connection
once a month and perform periodic bacteriological testing at the site. If the
Town suspects water quality issues the Town will evaluate the practicability of
requiring that the fire sprinkler system be flushed periodically.
   F.   Inspection, Testing And Repair:
      1.   Backflow prevention assemblies or methods shall be tested by a
certified cross-connection control technician upon installation and tested at
least annually, thereafter. The tests shall be made at the expense of the
customer.
         a.   Any backflow prevention assemblies or methods that are non-
testable, shall be inspected at least once annually by a certified cross-
connection control technician. The inspections shall be made at the expense of
the customer.
      2.   As necessary, backflow prevention assemblies or methods shall be
repaired and retested or replaced and tested at the expense of the customer
whenever the assemblies or methods are found to be defective.
      3.   Testing gauges shall be tested and calibrated for accuracy at least
once annually.
   G.   Reporting And Recordkeeping:
      1.   Copies of records of test reports, repairs and retests, or
replacements shall be kept by the customer for a minimum of three (3) years.
      2.   Copies of records of test reports, repairs and retests shall be
submitted to the Town by mail, facsimile or e-mail by the testing company or
testing technician.
      3.   Information on test reports shall include, but may not be limited
to,
         a.   Assembly or method type;
         b.   Assembly or method location;
         c.   Assembly make, model and serial number;
         d.   Assembly size;
         e.   Test date; and
         f.   Test results including all results that would justify a pass or
fail outcome;
         g.   Certified cross-connection control technician certification
agency;
         h.   Technician's certification number;
         i.   Technician's certification expiration date;
         j.   Test kit manufacturer, model and serial number;
         k.   Test kit calibration date.
   H.   Right Of Entry:
      1.   A properly credentialed representative of the Town shall have the
right of entry to survey any and all buildings and premises for the presence of
cross-connections for possible contamination risk to and for determining
compliance with this section. This right of entry shall be a condition of water
service in order to protect the health, safety and welfare of customers
throughout the Town's water distribution system.
   I.   Compliance:
      1.   Customers shall cooperate with the installation, inspection,
testing, maintenance, and as needed repair and replacement of backflow
prevention assemblies and with the survey process. For any identified
uncontrolled cross- connections, the Town shall complete one of the following
actions within one hundred twenty (120) days of its discovery:
         a.   Control the cross connection.
         b.   Remove the cross connection.
         c.   Suspend service to the cross connection.
      2.   The Town shall give notice in writing to any owner whose plumbing
system has been found to present a risk to the public waters system's
distribution system through an uncontrolled cross connection. The notice and
order shall state that the owner must install a backflow prevention assembly or
method at each service connection to the owner's premises to contain the water
service. The notice and order will give a date by which the owner must comply.
         a.   In instances where a backflow prevention assembly or method
cannot be installed, the owner must install approved backflow prevention
assemblies or methods at all cross-connections within the owner's water supply
system. The notice and order will give a date by which the owner must comply.
   J.   Violations And Penalties:
      1.   Any violation of the provisions of this section, shall, upon
conviction be punishable as provided in all applicable statutes, laws, and
regulations.
   K.   Conflict With Other Codes:
      1.   If a dispute or conflict arises between the Colorado Plumbing Code
as adopted herein, and any Plumbing, Mechanical, Building, Electrical, Fire or
other code adopted by the State, then the most stringent provisions of each
respective code shall prevail. (Ord. 460, 6-5-2018)
CHAPTER 2
SEWER SYSTEM
SECTION:
8-2-1: Policy And Purpose
8-2-2: Construction Of Words; Definitions
8-2-3: Administrative Provisions
8-2-4: Service Connections
8-2-5: Extension Policies
8-2-6: Rates And Charges
8-2-7: Development Fee Schedule (Rep. by Ord. 298, 12-7-1999)
8-2-8: Sewer Service Charge Schedule (Rep. by Ord. 298, 12-7-1999)
8-2-9: Billing And Payment
8-2-10: Applicability; Penalty
8-2-1: POLICY AND PURPOSE:
This Chapter is hereby enacted for the preservation and promotion of the public
health, welfare and safety of the residents of the Town and for the
preservation and promotion of the convenience, good order, tranquility,
prosperity, best interest and general welfare of said residents, and to
encourage and facilitate the orderly growth and expansion of the Town. (Ord.
172, 4-17-1985)
8-2-2: CONSTRUCTION OF WORDS; DEFINITIONS:
Words used in the singular number include the plural and words in the plural
include the singular; "shall" is mandatory and not directory. For the purposes
of this Chapter, certain terms and words are herewith defined as follows:
   ACTUAL COST: The actual project cost of any customer improvement shall mean
all direct costs applicable to the construction of a given facility, including
preliminary engineering, final design engineering, construction, acquisition of
any lands or easements required, job inspection, as-built drawings and the
furnishing of a one-year guarantee bond and all other costs necessary for
completion.
   CUSTOMERS: Customers shall mean any person, companies, corporation,
government authorities or agencies authorized to use the public sewer system of
the Town under a permit issued by the Board of Trustees. It shall not include
any person or entity located within the limits of a special district intended
to provide sewer service, or such district itself.
   EQR: An abbreviation for equivalent residential unit which is an average
single-family residence or the equivalent, from a utilities demand standpoint.
   ENGINEER OR TOWN ENGINEER: That registered engineer designated by the Town
to act in the Town's behalf.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTES: The liquid wastes from industrial processes as distinct
from sanitary sewage.
   PERMIT OR SEWER PERMIT: Written permission of the Board to connect to the
public sewer main in the Town of Morrison pursuant to the rules and regulations
of the Town.
   SANITARY SEWER: A sewer which carries sewage and to which storm, surface and
ground waters are not intentionally admitted.
   SERVICE LINES: Includes the service pipe, cleanouts and other appurtenances
required to deliver sewage from the customer to the Town's main. All service
lines shall be owned and maintained by the customer.
   SEWAGE: Any liquid waste containing animal or vegetable matter in suspension
or solution from residences, commercial and business buildings, institutions
and industrial establishments.
   SEWER MAIN: The principal arteries of the sewer system to which the service
lines may be connected. Unless otherwise approved by the town, all sewer mains
are to be owned, operated and maintained by the town of Morrison and must be
located in dedicated streets or easements.
   SEWER SUPERINTENDENT: The sewer superintendent of the town, or in his/her
absence, her/his duly authorized deputy.
   SEWER TAP OR CONNECTION: The physical process or act of connecting service
lines to a sewer main.
   STUB-IN: That part of the service line lying within the public right of way.
   TOWN: The town of Morrison.
   USER: Any person, firm, corporation or government agency to whom sewer
service is supplied. (Ord. 172, 4-17-1985)
8-2-3: ADMINISTRATIVE PROVISIONS:
   A.   Customer's Contract For Service:
      1.   The town, through its board, will furnish sewer service to persons
within its corporate limits (and not within the limits of a special district
providing sewer service) whose premises abut a street or alley, or by easement
across private property, in which a sewer main now is or may hereafter be laid,
and may also furnish sewer service to persons whose premises are situated
outside the corporate limits of the town upon the prior express approval of the
board of trustees. The rules and regulations hereinafter named in this chapter
and the provisions regulating the sewer rates of the town shall be considered a
part of every application hereafter made for sewer service to the town and
shall be considered a part of the contract between every customer now or
hereafter served by the town. Without further formality, the making of an
application for the use of sewer service together with the furnishing of sewer
service to said applicant by the town shall constitute a contract between the
applicant or customer and the town, to which contract both parties are bound.
      2.   If any customer violates any of the provisions of this chapter or
the provisions of any contract or any rules or regulations relating to sewer
service and charges therefor, the town clerk shall notify the customer in
writing of the violation, which notice shall give the customer ten (10) days
from the receipt thereof to correct the violation or suffer termination of
sewer service. Said notice shall also state that the customer may, if he/she
feels that no violation has occurred or that she/he has a legitimate reason why
his/her service should not be terminated, petition the town board, in writing,
filed with the town clerk within the ten (10) day period to hold a hearing on
her/his defenses. If a notified customer files a petition within said ten (10)
day period, the town board shall schedule a hearing thereon at its next
regularly scheduled meeting and notify the customer thereof. If the customer
appears for the scheduled hearing, the town board shall hear his/her defenses
and at that meeting shall make a determination thereof. If the customer shall
fail to appear for the hearing, it shall be determined that she/he has waived
his/her defenses and the sewer superintendent may terminate her/his water and/
or sewer service the following day. If, after hearing, the town board shall
determine that the customer's defenses are without merit, it shall inform the
customer of its determination at the hearing. The customer shall thereafter
have three (3) days in which to correct the violation for which notice was
given. If the customer shall fail to correct said violation within said three
(3) day period, the sewer superintendent may terminate that customer's sewer
and/or water service on the fourth day following the hearing. After termination
has occurred, no further connection for sewer service to that customer shall
again be made except by order of the board of trustees. With respect to
properties outside the town, the provisions of Colorado Revised Statutes 31-35-
701 et seq., shall apply.
   B.   Application For Service: Every prospective customer desiring sanitary
sewer service or every person, firm or corporation who is remodeling or
expanding an existing property which may result in an increase of sewer flows
or a change in "EQR" value as defined in section
8-2-2 of this chapter, shall make application therefor to the town clerk on
blanks to be furnished by the town clerk for that purpose.
   C.   Use Limited To Customers: No customer shall permit other families or
other persons to discharge wastes to the subject property (except for
specifically permitted dump stations). After sewer service is introduced into
any building or premises, no one shall make or cause to be made any additional
tap or branch onto or from the service line which could serve another building
or premises.
   D.   Cross-Connections Prohibited: No cross-connections between the Town
water system and other water supply or waste line shall be permitted. All
customer plumbing shall be in compliance with the Colorado State Plumbing Code
and the cross-connection control provisions of the Uniform Plumbing Code,
latest edition 1 . The Town's authorized inspector shall have the right of
access to customer's premises for the purpose of inspecting customer plumbing
during construction or when there is probable cause to believe a violation has
occurred.
   E.   Use Of Public Sewer System: No person shall uncover, make any
connection with or opening into, use, alter or disturb any public sewer main,
manhole or other appurtenance without first obtaining a written permit from the
Town.
   F.   Prohibited Discharges To System:
      1.   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any storm water,
surface water, ground water or unpolluted industrial process water to any
sanitary sewer.
      2.   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged into any public
sewer, any harmful waters or wastes, whether liquid, solid or gas, capable of
causing obstruction to the flow in sewers, damage or hazard to structures,
equipment and personnel of the sewage works, or other interference with the
proper operation of the sewage works.
      3.   The admission into the public sewer of any waters or wastes having
harmful or objectionable characteristics shall be subject to the review and
approval of the Town, who may prescribe limits on the strength and character of
these waters and wastes. Where necessary, in the opinion and at the discretion
of the Town, the owner shall provide at his/her expense, such preliminary
treatment as may be necessary to treat these wastes prior to discharge to the
public sewer. Plans, specifications, and any other pertinent information
relating to preliminary treatment facilities shall be submitted for the
approval of the Town Engineer and of the State Board of Health and no
construction shall begin until written approval of the Town is obtained. Where
preliminary treatment facilities are provided for any waters or wastes, they
shall be maintained continuously in satisfactory and effective operation by the
owner at his/her expense.
   G.   Control Manhole Required:
      1.   When required by the Town, the owner of any property serviced by a
building sewer carrying industrial wastes shall install and maintain at his/her
expense a suitable control manhole in the building sewer to facilitate
observation, sampling and measurement of wastes. All measurements, tests and
analyses of the characteristics of waters and wastes shall be determined in
accordance with "Standard Methods for the Examination of Water and Sewage"
(published information), and shall be determined at the control manhole or upon
suitable samples taken therefrom.
      2.   Such manholes shall be accessible and safely located, and
constructed in accordance with plans and specifications approved by the Town.
The manhole shall be installed and maintained by the owner at his/her expense.
An easement shall be granted to the Town so that inspections can be conducted
by representatives and agents of the Town.
   H.   Interceptors Provided: Grease, oil and sand interceptors of a design
recommended by the Colorado State Board of Health and/or approved by the Town
Engineer shall be provided when, in the opinion of the Sewer Superintendent,
they are necessary for proper handling of liquid wastes containing grease in
excessive amounts or any toxic wastes, sand or other harmful ingredients.
However, floor drains for all automobile service stations and car washes and
all kitchen waste drains for restaurants having over twenty (20) person seating
capacity shall be equipped with approved interceptors. Where installed, they
shall be maintained by the customer, at his/her expense in continuously
efficient operation at all times. The Town retains the right of periodic
inspection of such grease, oil and sand interceptors and the right to assess a
fee for such inspection.
   I.   Maintenance Of Line:
      1.   Each customer shall be responsible for maintaining the entire length
of his/her sewer service line. Arrangements for repair of leaks or breaks in
the service sewer line shall be made by the property owner within seventy two
(72) hours from the time of notification of such condition by the Town. If
satisfactory progress toward repairing said leak has not been accomplished
within said time period, the Superintendent shall shut off service until the
leak or break has been repaired. If satisfactory progress toward repairing said
leak has not been made by the time specified, the Superintendent shall have the
authority to repair, or have repaired, the line at the cost of the owner.
      2.   All expenses incurred by the Town in the disconnection of a sewer
service line and in the reinstatement of service shall be charged against the
owner of the property. Service will not be reinstated until such time as the
property owner has paid in full all expenses incurred and any outstanding
service use fee. (Ord. 172, 4-17-1985)
 
Notes
1 1. See Section
  9-1-2 of this Code.
8-2-4: SERVICE CONNECTIONS:
   A.   Cost Responsibility: All cost and expense in the installation and
connection of sewer service lines shall be borne by the customer. Each customer
shall own and be responsible for construction, maintenance and replacement of
service lines.
   B.   Individual Service Lines: Each individual structure hereinafter
connected shall pay the required system development fee and connection charges,
and install separate service lines and taps for each such structure. Any
variance from this requirement must be with written approval of the Town Board.
      1.   Only one premises shall be supplied with sewer service through a
single-service line connected to the Town distribution system, except in the
case of a hotel, motel, lodge, resort, apartment house or other similar place
of business under single ownership and reasonably operated as an integrated
unit or a condominium in which one person or association is responsible for
payment of sewer charges.
      2.   Common-wall units with separate ownership and no responsible
association shall have separate service lines.
      3.   In the event that any premises receiving sewer service from the Town
is subsequently divided into separate ownership, each owner shall have a
separate sewer service line connected to the collection system, and each
additional user shall pay the sewer tap fee and sewer service charges. Any work
in running service lines to the distribution main shall be done under the
supervision of the Town.
   C.   Specifications: All materials and installations shall be in accordance
with regulations adopted by the Town. Service line installation shall be
inspected and approved by the Sewer Superintendent prior to backfill and use.
All taps shall be inspected by the Sewer Superintendent prior to connection of
the service line.
      1.   Construction On Public Land: No cut shall be made in any road or
street without a permit having been first obtained from the proper State,
County and/or Town authorities.
      2.   Notification Of Inspection: The applicant for the sewer service
permit shall notify the Superintendent when the service is ready for
inspection, when connection to the sewer main is ready to be made and before
covering of the sewer service line. The connection shall be made by the
contractor under the Superintendent's supervision. (Ord. 172, 4-17-1985)
8-2-5: EXTENSION POLICIES:
   A.   Inside Town: This category shall include all lands within the Town
boundaries.
   B.   Procedures:
      1.   For lands which have been platted before January 1, 1984, owners
shall pay to the Town the cost of a preliminary engineering report for any
sewer main extension, which report shall describe and cost estimate the
collection sewer system within or adjacent to the proposed development.
      2.   Before final approval, the owner(s) shall furnish to the Town
sufficient monies, or acceptable bonds or letters of credit in the amount of
the estimated actual cost of the collection sewer system.
      3.   After receipt of the monies or bonds or letters of credit at a time
requested by the owner, the Town shall have constructed the collection sewer
system, using monies provided by the owner. Any remaining funds shall be
returned to the owner(s) at the completion of the project. Any shortage shall
be paid to the Town as needed by the Town during construction and before any
taps are permitted on the system.
      4.   For those areas within the Town which are undeveloped areas, the
owner shall, after the submission of a preliminary plat and before approval of
the final plat, pay to the Town the cost of a preliminary engineering report,
which will describe and cost estimate the collection sewer system within or
adjacent to the proposed plat.
      5.   Before final plat approval, the owner shall furnish to the Town
sufficient monies or acceptable bonds or letters of credit in the amount of the
estimated actual cost of the collection sewer system.
      6.   After plat approval, and at the time requested by the owner, at the
Town's option, the Town or the owner shall have constructed the collection
sewer system, using monies provided by the owner. Any remaining funds shall be
returned to the owner at the completion of the project. Any shortage shall be
paid to the Town as needed and before any taps are permitted on the system.
   C.   Timing:
      1.   The Board may govern acceptance of applications and scheduling of
any taps, and may defer permits until adequate sewage transmission and
treatment facilities can be constructed and placed in operation in order to
serve the proposed or subject development.
      2.   At the Town's option, developers or customers to whom the Town has
issued sewer taps shall deed to the Town the entire collector sewer system and
any easements after it has been completed and accepted without cost to the
Town.
   D.   Areas Outside Existing Town Limits: This category includes all areas
outside the Town limits (as of the effective date of the Ordinance codified in
this Chapter) and whose owners petition for sewer service and/or annexation.
Procedures to be followed for providing service to these areas are as follows:
      1.   The owner of the land desiring sewer service (applicant) shall
request such service in writing. Information furnished shall include:
         a.   Description of area to be served;
         b.   Description of proposed development;
         c.   Timing of development;
         d.   Probable flow requirements.
This written application will then be review by the Town and may be denied
without further hearing, at its discretion.
      2.   If the Town Board indicates probable favorability to serve, then the
applicant shall have prepared an engineering feasibility report. This report
may be arranged for through the Town Engineer at the applicant's expense or may
be prepared by an engineer selected by the applicant, in which case the
applicant shall pay the costs of report review by the Town's engineer; if legal
considerations must be investigated, then this work shall be accomplished
through the Town, by its attorney, at the applicant's expense. The applicant
shall deposit with the Town Clerk an estimated dollar amount to cover
anticipated legal and engineering expenses. Report information shall include,
but not be limited to, the following:
         a.   Expansion of information included in the original letter of
application;
         b.   Preliminary designs and cost estimates for any sewage treatment
or transmission facilities required (as shown by subsection D1 above) to be
added on account of service to the applicant area;
         c.   Preliminary designs and cost estimates of collection sewer lines
required;
         d.   Preliminary design and cost estimates of connection methods to
the Morrison systems;
         e.   Hydraulic and functional analyses of the combined systems which
will show the effect of the added areas on Morrison's existing facilities;
         f.   System development fees, contributions-in-aid-of- construction,
and legal conditions required in a contract for service.
      3.   The Town Board and applicant will review the report and, if the
conditions for service are mutually agreeable, then the applicant shall have
prepared, by the Town's attorney, a contract for utilities service. Such
contract shall at least require:
         a.   Payment of system development fees in accordance with the rate
schedule 1 ;
         b.   Any additional dollar contributions required for connecting sewer
lines (from the existing Town system to the proposed development);
         c.   Service charges will be one and seventy five one-hundredths
(1.75) times the current in Town rate until the area is annexed;
         d.   All collection sewer lines shall be paid for by the petitioner
and shall be built to Town quality standards. Lines may either be installed by
the Town or by the developer, at the Town's option. All drawings and
specifications must be approved by the Town's Engineer. The work must be
inspected by the Town's inspector in any event. Line sizes must be in
accordance with the Town's master planning. The developer is to pay actual
project costs, including preliminary engineering, final design engineering,
review, job inspection, as built drawings, surveys, easements, etc. If the area
is to be annexed, the Town shall have approved the design and construction of
all facilities with the developer paying actual project costs. Procedures are
to be similar to those described in subsection
 8-2-4B of this chapter;
         e.   At the Town's option, the collection sewer system and all
easements, after it has been completed and accepted, shall be the property of
the Town;
         f.   The service area customers shall agree to abide by all the fees
and regulations governing use of the Town's systems;
         g.   The procedures required by section 31-35-701 et seq., Colorado
Revised Statutes.
      4.   Rebate Provisions:
         a.   Whenever an owner is required to invest in connecting
transmission lines that may later also serve future development, or for
collection lines that can also service other abutting property owners, the Town
will enter into a rebate agreement which will provide that:
            (1)   The total rebate shall not exceed the original actual cost of
the subject line, without interest;
            (2)   Rebates shall be payable only from one-third (1/3) of the
applicable system development fees collected;
            (3)   If connections are not made directly to the subject line, the
Town will establish a "percent applicability" for partial rebate.
         b.   When the developer is required to pay for oversized lines, the
Town will rebate the cost of oversize with money obtained from not more than
one-third (1/3) of the system development fees paid by future customers
utilizing the oversized capacity. Lines will be considered oversized only when
they have capacities exceeding the needs of the subject proposed development
and intended for further development. Lines up to eight inches (8") in diameter
will not be considered as oversized.
         c.   No rebate agreement shall extend for a period longer than five
(5) years. (Ord. 172, 4-17-1985)
      5.   Extraterritorial Sewer Service Extension Policy: Notwithstanding
anything in this title to the contrary, the Town of Morrison will provide
extraterritorial sewer service only under the terms, conditions and limitations
of this subsection D5.
         a.   Findings:
            (1)   The Board of Trustees has authority pursuant to the Charter
and Colorado Revised Statutes 31-15-701, et seq., to adopt regulations,
policies and procedures governing the operation the Town's sewer system,
including extensions of that system outside of the Town boundaries; and
            (2)   The Board of Trustees finds and declares that the extension
of sewer service outside Town boundaries shall be and is at the discretion of
the Board of Trustees, taking into consideration the Town's limited existing
sewer treatment capacity and the constraints imposed upon that capacity by
effluent limitations and water quality standards in Bear Creek; and
            (3)   The Board of Trustees finds and declares that the Board's
primary responsibility to provide sewer service to customers within the Town
limits who are entitled to demand such service further constrains the Town's
ability to provide sewer service, or extensions of existing services, to
customers outside of the boundaries of the Town; and
            (4)   The Board of Trustees finds and declares that the Town is not
a general public provider of sewer service outside the Town corporate limits;
the Town's provision of sewer service to certain properties outside those
limits being restricted to specific properties, under specific conditions of
intergovernmental agreements.
         b.   Extension Of Treated Sewer Services: The Town may only permit the
extension of treated sewer services outside of the existing Town boundaries on
a case-by-case basis, and upon a finding by the Board of Trustees that all of
the following conditions have been met:
            (1)   That the Town has available to it sufficient sewer treatment
capacity, taking into consideration the limitations on that capacity described
in subsection D5a, "Findings", of this section, to supply the proposed
extension;
            (2)   That the proposed extension will not overburden, as found by
the Board of Trustees in the Board's sole discretion, the Town's sewer
treatment capacity or the Town's existing and proposed sewer treatment
facilities; and
            (3)   That the user and/or proposed use of the proposed sewer
services advances an interest of the Town of Morrison and the Town's residents,
and is not solely for the benefit of an extraterritorial user whose activities
do not immediately and directly benefit the Town; and
            (4)   That sewer service to the proposed extraterritorial user will
not result in injury, damage or excessive cost to the Town or to its sewer
collection and treatment system; and
            (5)   That all costs of providing sewer service to the
extraterritorial user, including the development of and maintenance of sewer
treatment collection and treatment capacity, are all fully recovered from the
extraterritorial user and will be recovered into the future as costs increase.
         c.   Map Adoption: The Board of Trustees hereby adopts the "Town of
Morrison Extraterritorial Sewer Service Extension Map" on file with the Town as
exhibit A and fully incorporated herein by this reference.
         d.   Map Depiction: The Town of Morrison Extraterritorial Sewer
Service Extension Map depicts the following extraterritorial sewer service
areas within which the Town may provide service subject to all of the
limitations described:
            (1)   Red Rocks Park Limited Service Area: Service to this supply
area is limited exclusively to the amount, use and timing of extraterritorial
treated sewer service set forth in the Intergovernmental Agreement between the
Town of Morrison and the City and County of Denver dated July 15, 2004, as
amended. No additional service, extension of service or modification of such
service may be approved without approval by the Board of Trustees as an
amendment to that IGA.
            (2)   Denver Mountain Parks Limited Service Area: Service to this
supply area is limited exclusively to the amount, use and timing of
extraterritorial sewer service set forth in the Intergovernmental Agreement
between the Town of Morrison and the City and County of Denver dated July 24,
2007. No additional service, extension of service or modification of such
service may be approved without approval by the Board of Trustees as an
amendment to that IGA.
         e.   Mt. Carbon MD Service Area: The Town presently is obligated to
provide sewer service to the Mount Carbon Metropolitan District to the area on
the exhibit A on file with the Town, which area is presently within the
Municipal limits of the Town. Service to this supply area is limited
exclusively to service provided through the Mt. Carbon Metropolitan District
pursuant to that certain Intergovernmental Agreement dated October 27, 2008, as
amended. No further service extensions in this area shall be permitted without
an amendment to that IGA, in the sole and exclusive discretion of the Board of
Trustees. (Ord. 454, 3-20-2018)
   E.   Extensions To Property Line: All extensions constructed under this
chapter shall be installed to the far side of the property, or to such other
location agreed to by the Town in order that the sewer system may be continued.
(Ord. 172, 4-17-1985)
 
Notes
1 1. See Section
  8-2-7 of this Chapter.
8-2-6: RATES AND CHARGES:
   A.   Basis Of Charges: The Board of Trustees shall have the right and power
to adopt, by resolution, a schedule of rates and charges for sewer service and
amend the same by resolution any time it deems proper. Sewer system development
fees and service charges shall be subject to the Town Board's approval
according to use. A change in usage classification shall mean a change in fees.
   B.   Out Of Town Customers: All charges for sewer services provided to
customers living outside the Town limits shall be computed as one and seventy
five one-hundredths (1.75) times the rate charged to the in Town users. (Ord.
172, 4-17-1985)
   C.   Sewer System Development Fee:
      1.   Establishment: There is hereby established and authorized to be
imposed a sewer system development fee for the privilege of connection to the
Town sewer collection and disposal system. The amount of such fee and basis of
calculation, including establishing classes of users, shall be determined, and
may be revised from time to time, by the Board of Trustees by resolution, after
giving due consideration to the value and investment in the Town's existing
sewer facilities and future expansion requirements.
      2.   Reassessment Of System Development Fees:
         a.   The initial system development fee is an estimate of actual
demand based upon recognized standards for similar uses. Individual customer
uses may vary substantially from these recognized standards based upon fixtures
and appliances used, increases or decreases in the business, size or capacity
of the user not subject to normal review, or other causes. (Ord. 342, 12-5-
2006)
         b.   The utility supervisor, based upon a review of metered usage, or
upon a review of water consumption, or upon any other reasonable cause, may
audit the customer's premises and usage to determine if a reasonable basis
exists to adjust the system allocation (equivalent residential unit or EQR),
and system development fees. Upon determining that system development fees
should be increased, the utility supervisor shall provide written notice to the
customer. The customer shall be advised of the opportunity to pay such new fees
according to a mutually agreeable schedule not to exceed three (3) years. (Ord.
384, 10-18-2011)
         c.   The audit referenced in subsection C2b of this section may be
conducted not sooner than two (2) years from the date of commencement for a
new, changed or expanded use and may be conducted no more frequently than once
every twenty four (24) month period.
         d.   If the customer disagrees with the determination of the utility
supervisor, he or she may appeal such determination to the board of trustees by
submitting a written notice of appeal to the town clerk not more than thirty
(30) days after the date of the original notification of reassessment. Such
matter will be heard by the board of trustees not more than sixty (60) days
after the date of the appeal. (Ord. 342, 12-5-2006)
   D.   Connection Charge: This charge shall be set administratively by the
sewer superintendent, subject to board approval. It will cover the town's total
cost of inspecting the tap and the service line.
   E.   Sewer Service Charge: Service charges shall be as set or revised by
resolution. Sewer fees may be revised by resolution by the town board at any
time they so deem necessary. Two- thirds (2/3) of the monthly service charge
shall commence one hundred twenty (120) days after an application and permit
for water tap is approved by the town, and shall be charged until the first day
of the month in which a water tap to the property is made and water service is
available.
   F.   Noncontinuous Service: Sewer service charges are made on an all year
basis. Property temporarily unoccupied must pay for service continuously. If a
property is to be vacated permanently or for a long time period, the owner
shall notify the town to discontinue service. Service may later be reinitiated
upon payment of either of the following fees at the owner's discretion:
      1.   The standard system development fee, as provided herein; or
      2.   A fee of ten dollars ($10.00), plus fifty percent (50%) of all the
flat rate service charges, which would have been paid by the customer from the
time of notice to discontinue service to the time of service reinstatement.
Note: If the property usage changes in the interim period (hence changing the
system development fee or service charge amounts), subsection F1 of this
section shall be computed in the new use, while subsection F2 of this section
shall be computed under the old use. (Ord. 172, 4-17-1985)
8-2-7: DEVELOPMENT FEE SCHEDULE:
(Rep. by Ord. 298, 12-7-1999)
8-2-8: SEWER SERVICE CHARGE SCHEDULE:
(Rep. by Ord. 298, 12-7-1999)
8-2-9: BILLING AND PAYMENT:
   A.   Billing:
      1.   Statements for all charges billed on a flat rate basis shall be
rendered quarterly in advance. Such statements shall be mailed the same week of
every quarter. Any accrued, but unpaid, charges for late payments, service line
repairs, or other services chargeable within the scope of this title, shall be
added to such statements.
      2.   Although flat rate billings are quarterly in advance, customers may
elect to pay either monthly or quarterly. If a customer elects to pay monthly,
then one-third (1/3) of the total amount of each quarterly billing must be paid
on or before the tenth day of each month during the respective quarter. If the
customer elects to pay quarterly in advance, then said sum shall be payable
within twenty (20) days from the date of mailing of the statement for said
quarter.
      3.   Any statements or billing on which there has not been at least a
one-third (1/3) payment by the tenth day of the first and each succeeding month
of the respective quarter shall be due and payable in full on a quarterly basis
and the customer shall be deemed to have waived any right to elect to make said
quarterly payment on monthly installment terms, and further, said quarterly
payment shall be deemed delinquent.
      4.   Upon the determination of delinquency, the town will deliver by hand
or registered mail to the user a shutoff notice. Said shutoff notice will
require that the bill be paid within seventy two (72) hours of the time of
service of the notice. If neither the owner nor the occupant can be located for
personal service, it shall be lawful to attach said notice to the front door.
Until paid, all rates, tolls, fees and charges shall constitute a first and
perpetual lien on and against the property served, and any such lien may be
foreclosed in the manner provided by law.
      5.   Any delinquent accounts shall be charged an interest rate of
eighteen percent (18%) per annum on the unpaid portion. Bills not paid shall be
declared "overdue" and shall be subject to the provisions of subsection
8-2-3A of this chapter.
   B.   Liability For Payment: The property owner is responsible for payment
for all charges or fees of the town. The town is not bound by any agreement
made between landlords and tenants, regardless of how made, whether or not the
town has been notified of such agreement. The town will hold the property owner
liable for all charges for sewer service to the property. (Ord. 172, 4-17-1985)
8-2-10: APPLICABILITY; PENALTY:
   A.   Scope: These fees and regulations shall apply to all property owners
within the boundaries of the town not served by a sewer district, whether the
property is connected to the town's sewer system or not, and shall, in
addition, apply to owners outside the town not served by a sewer district who
are furnished sewer service by the town. No connection to the town's sewer
system shall be permitted until the property owners shall have agreed to abide
by the fees as set or to be set and these regulations as they exist and as
subsequently amended.
   B.   Penalty:
      1.   It shall be unlawful for any person to violate any of the provisions
of this title. Any person who violates a provision of this chapter shall be
subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code.
      2.   In the event any owner or owners of any lot, parcel of land or any
real property within the legal boundaries of the town shall neglect, fail or
refuse to pay the charges or fees fixed by this title, the town may pursue any
remedy available at law or equity to enforce and collect the fee or charge. The
town may also recover, in addition to service fees due, all court costs,
attorney fees and interest on the amount owing.
      3.   In the event of a violation consisting of other than failure to pay
charges or fees, the town may also seek any available legal or equitable
remedy. (Ord. 172, 4-17-1985; amd. Ord. 261, 4-16-1996)
CHAPTER 3
INDUSTRIAL PRETREATMENT REGULATIONS
SECTION:
8-3-1: Regulations Approved
8-3-2: Amendment
8-3-3: Compliance Monitoring
8-3-4: Enforcement
8-3-5: Public Nuisance
8-3-6: Charges And Fees
8-3-1: REGULATIONS APPROVED:
The Industrial Users Pretreatment Regulations, subtitled Regulations for the
Pretreatment of Discharges into the Town of Morrison Sewage Treatment Plant,
dated May 1, 1999, are hereby approved. (Ord. 291, 6-15-1999)
8-3-2: AMENDMENT:
The regulations may be amended from time to time by the superintendent of
utilities which amendments shall be effective upon approval of the Board of
Trustees. (Ord. 291, 6-15-1999)
8-3-3: COMPLIANCE MONITORING:
   A.   Right Of Entry; Inspection And Sampling:
      1.   The superintendent shall have the right to enter the premises of any
user to determine whether the user is complying with all requirements of the
regulations and any wastewater discharge permit or order issued thereunder.
Users shall allow the superintendent ready access to all parts of the premises
for the purposes of inspection, sampling, records examination and copying, and
the performance of any additional duties.
      2.   Where a user has security measures in force which require proper
identification and clearance before entry into its premises, the user shall
make necessary arrangements with its security personnel so that, upon
presentation of suitable identification, the superintendent, or his
representative, will be permitted to enter without delay for the purposes of
performing specific responsibilities.
      3.   The superintendent shall have the right to set up on the user's
property, or require installation of, such devices as are necessary to conduct
sampling and/or metering of the user's operations.
      4.   The superintendent may require the user to install monitoring
equipment as necessary. The facility's sampling and monitoring equipment shall
be maintained at all times in a safe and proper operating condition by the user
at its own expense. All devices used to measure wastewater flow and quality
shall be calibrated annually to ensure their accuracy.
      5.   Any temporary or permanent obstruction to safe and easy access to
the facility to be inspected and/or sampled shall be promptly removed by the
user at the written or verbal request of the superintendent and shall not be
replaced. The costs of clearing such access shall be borne by the user.
      6.   Unreasonable delays in allowing the superintendent access to the
user's premises shall be a violation of the regulations.
   B.   Search Warrants: If the superintendent has been refused access to a
building, structure, or property, or any part thereof, and is able to
demonstrate probable cause to believe that there may be a violation of the
regulations, or that there is a need to inspect and/or sample as part of a
routine inspection and sampling program of the Town designed to verify
compliance with the regulations or any permit or order issued hereunder, or to
protect the overall public health, safety and welfare of the community, then
the superintendent may seek issuance of a search warrant from any court of
proper jurisdiction. (Ord. 291, 6-15-1999)
8-3-4: ENFORCEMENT:
In addition to any other remedies the Town may have for violation of the
regulations, the Town shall have the following remedies and the following
penalties shall apply:
   A.   Judicial Remedies:
      1.   When the superintendent finds that a user has violated, or continues
to violate, any provision of these regulations, a wastewater discharge permit,
or order issued hereunder, or any other pretreatment standard or requirement,
the superintendent may petition the District Court for Jefferson County through
the Town Attorney for the issuance of a temporary or permanent injunction, as
appropriate, which restrains or compels the specific performance of the
wastewater discharge permit, order, or other requirement imposed by these
regulations on activities of the user. The superintendent may also seek such
other action as is appropriate for legal and/or equitable relief, including a
requirement for the user to conduct environmental remediation. A petition for
injunctive relief shall not be a bar against, or a prerequisite for, taking any
other action against a user.
      2.   In addition to injunctive relief, the town, upon a finding that a
user has violated or continues to violate any provisions of these regulations,
a wastewater discharge permit or order issued thereunder or any other
pretreatment standard requirement, the town may apply to the municipal court
for an order so declaring, and upon issuance of said order, the Municipal Court
may impose a civil fine of up to two thousand six hundred fifty dollars
($2,650.00) per incident, the amount of the fine to be determined by the court,
in consideration of all relevant circumstances, including, but not limited to,
the extent of harm caused by the violation, the magnitude and duration of the
violation, any economic benefit gained through the user's violation, corrective
actions by the user, the compliance history of the user, and any other factor
as justice requires.
   B.   Civil Penalties And Fines:
      1.   A user who has violated or continues to violate any provision of the
regulations, a wastewater discharge permit, or order issued hereunder, or any
other pretreatment standard or requirement shall be liable to the Town for a
maximum fine of two thousand six hundred fifty dollars ($2,650.00) per
violation, per day. The amount of the fine shall be determined and imposed by
the Town Manager, in consideration of the severity of the incident, its effect
on public health, wastewater operations, and whether the incident represents a
violation of any agreement for the provision of wastewater service. Each day of
a continuing violation shall be a separate violation for the purpose of this
subsection.
      2.   In addition, the Town may recover reasonable attorney fees, court
costs, and other expenses associated with enforcement activities, including
sampling and monitoring expenses, and the cost of any actual damages incurred
by the Town.
      3.   In the event a fine imposed by the Town Manager under this section
is not paid when due, the Town, in addition to all other remedies provided
under this chapter, may certify the unpaid amount to the County Treasurer for
collection in the same manner as taxes pursuant to CRS 31-20-105 and 106.
      4.   Filing a suit for civil penalties shall not be a bar against, or a
prerequisite for, taking any other action against a user.
   C.   Criminal Prosecution:
      1.   A user who wilfully or negligently violates any provision of the
regulations, a wastewater discharge permit, or order issued thereunder, or any
other pretreatment standard or requirement shall, upon conviction, be guilty of
an offense, punishable by a fine of not more than one thousand dollars
($1,000.00) per violation, per day, or imprisonment for not more than ninety
(90) days, or both.
      2.   A user who wilfully or negligently introduces any substance into the
POTW which causes personal injury or property damage shall, upon conviction, be
guilty of an offense and be subject to a penalty of not more than one thousand
dollars ($1,000.00) or be subject to imprisonment for not more than ninety (90)
days, or both for each such violation. This penalty shall be in addition to any
other cause of action for personal injury or property damage available under
State law.
      3.   A user who knowingly makes any false statements, representations, or
certifications in any application, record, report, plan, or other documentation
filed, or required to be maintained, pursuant to the regulations, a wastewater
discharge permit, or order issued hereunder, or who falsifies, tampers with, or
knowingly renders inaccurate any monitoring device or method required under the
regulations shall, upon conviction, be punished by a fine of not more than one
thousand dollars ($1,000.00) per violation, per day, or imprisonment for not
more than ninety (90) days, or both.
      4.   In the event of a second conviction, a user shall be punished by a
fine of not more than one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) per violation, per day,
or imprisonment for not more than ninety (90) days, or both.
   D.   Remedies Nonexclusive: The remedies provided herein for violation of
the regulations are not exclusive. The superintendent may take any, all, or any
combination of these actions against a noncompliant user. Enforcement of
pretreatment violations will generally be in accordance with the Town's
enforcement response plan. However, the superintendent may take other action
against any user when the circumstances warrant. Further, the superintendent is
empowered to take more than one enforcement action against any noncompliant
user. (Ord. 291, 6-15-1999; amd. Ord. 511, 2-1-2022)
8-3-5: PUBLIC NUISANCE:
A violation of any provision of the regulations, a wastewater discharge permit,
or order issued thereunder, or any other pretreatment standard or requirement
is hereby declared a public nuisance and shall be corrected or abated as
directed by the superintendent. Any person(s) creating a public nuisance shall
be subject to the provisions of this Code governing such nuisances, including
reimbursing the Town for any costs incurred in removing, abating, or remedying
said nuisance. (Ord. 291, 6-15-1999)
8-3-6: CHARGES AND FEES:
The Town may adopt by resolution reasonable fees for reimbursement of costs and
expenses of setting up and operating the Town's pretreatment program which may
include, without limitation:
   A.   Fees for wastewater discharge permit applications including the cost of
processing such applications;
   B.   Fees for monitoring, inspection, and surveillance procedures including
the cost of collection and analyzing a user's discharge, and reviewing and
monitoring reports submitted by users;
   C.   Fees for reviewing and responding to accidental discharge procedures
and construction;
   D.   Fees for accepting and processing appeals; and
   E.   Other fees as the Town may deem necessary to carry out the requirements
contained herein. These fees relate solely to the matters covered by the
regulations and are separate from all other fees, fines, and penalties
chargeable by the Town. (Ord. 291, 6-15-1999)
TITLE 9
BUILDING REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
BUILDING CODES
SECTION:
9-1-1: Title
9-1-2: Codes Adopted By Reference
9-1-3: Amendments To International Building Code
9-1-4: Amendments To International Residential Code
9-1-5: Amendments To International Mechanical Code
9-1-6: Amendments To International Fuel Gas Code
9-1-7: Amendments To International Plumbing Code
9-1-8: Amendments To International Fire Code
9-1-9: Amendments To InternationalEnergy Conservation Code
9-1-10: Appeals
9-1-11: Enforcement And Penalties
9-1-12: Fees
9-1-13: Liability
9-1-1: TITLE:
This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the TOWN OF MORRISON BUILDING
CODES ORDINANCE. (Ord. 357, 10-21-2008)
9-1-2: CODES ADOPTED BY REFERENCE:
The following codes, as hereinafter amended, are hereby adopted by reference:
   A.   The international building code, 2015 edition, as published by the
International Code Council, 500 New Jersey Avenue, NW, 6th Floor, Washington,
DC 20001, chapters 1 through 35 inclusive and appendix chapter I, is hereby
adopted by reference as the town of Morrison building code as if fully set out
in this chapter.
The purpose of the international building code ("IBC") is to provide minimum
standards to safeguard life or limb, health, property and public welfare by
regulating and controlling the design, construction, quality of materials, use
and occupancy, location and maintenance of all commercial and multi-family
buildings and structures within the town of Morrison and certain equipment
specifically regulated in this code.
   B.   The international residential code, 2015 edition, as published by the
International Code Council, 500 New Jersey Avenue, NW, 6th Floor, Washington,
DC 20001, chapters 1 through 44 inclusive and appendix chapter H, is hereby
adopted by reference as the town of Morrison residential building code as if
fully set out in this chapter. The purpose and subject matter of this code
concerns providing standards for the fire, life, structural safety aspects of
one- and two-family dwellings and townhouses and national test, material and
design standards for these types of buildings and structures.
   C.   The international mechanical code, 2015 edition, as published by the
International Code Council, 500 New Jersey Avenue, NW, 6th Floor, Washington,
DC 20001, chapters 1 through 15 inclusive, is hereby adopted by reference as
the town of Morrison mechanical code as if fully set out in this chapter. The
purpose and subject matter of this code is to provide requirements for the
installation and maintenance of heating, ventilating, cooling and refrigeration
systems.
   D.   The international fuel gas code, 2015 edition, as published by the
International Code Council, 500 New Jersey Avenue, NW, 6th Floor, Washington,
DC 20001, chapters 1 through 8 inclusive, is hereby adopted by reference as the
town of Morrison fuel gas code as if fully set out in this chapter. The purpose
and subject matter of this code concerns establishing requirements for the
installation and maintenance of fuel and gas burning appliances and systems.
   E.   The international plumbing code, 2015 edition, as published by the
International Code Council, 500 New Jersey Avenue, NW, 6th Floor, Washington,
DC 20001, chapters 1 through 15 inclusive, is hereby adopted by reference as
the town of Morrison plumbing code as if fully set out in this chapter. The
purpose and subject matter of this code is the regulation of plumbing and
requirements for plumbing materials and installation standards.
   F.   The international fire code, 2015 edition, as published by the
International Code Council, 500 New Jersey Avenue, NW, 6th Floor, Washington,
DC 20001, chapters 1 through 80 inclusive, is hereby adopted by reference as
the town of Morrison fire code as if fully set out in this chapter. The purpose
and subject matter of this code concerns establishing fire prevention standards
and requirements and fire related standards for testing and materials.
   G.   The international energy conservation code, 2015 edition, as published
by the International Code Council, 500 New Jersey Avenue, NW, 6th Floor,
Washington, DC 20001, IECC Residential and Commercial chapters 1 through 6, is
hereby adopted by reference as the town of Morrison energy conservation code as
if fully set out in this chapter. The purpose and subject matter of this code
is to provide standards for the energy efficient design of building envelopes
and installation of energy efficient mechanical, lighting, and power systems
and for energy conservation related standards for testing and materials.
   H.   The national electrical code, the most current edition adopted by the
Colorado State Electrical Board, Department of Regulatory Agencies, as
published by the National Fire Protection Association, 1 Batterymarch Park,
Quincy, MA 02269, is hereby adopted by reference as the town of Morrison
electrical code as if fully set out in this chapter. The purpose of the
national electrical code, current edition, is to provide minimum standards
governing the planning, laying out, and installing or the making of additions,
alterations, and repairs in the installation of wiring apparatus and equipment
for electric light, heat, and power in the town of Morrison.
   I.   The International Existing Building Code, 2015 edition, as published by
the International Code Council, 500 New Jersey Avenue, NW, 6th Floor,
Washington, DC 20001, chapters 1 through 16 inclusive along with all
appendices, is hereby adopted by reference as the town of Morrison existing
building code as if fully set out in this chapter. The purpose and subject
matter of this code is to encourage the use and reuse of existing buildings,
while requiring reasonable upgrades and improvements. These upgrades and
improvements, where applicable, are life-safety related and include the
upgrading of fire protection systems, partial or complete enclosing of vertical
openings, replacement of unsafe interior finishing, providing adequate means of
egress and improving accessibility and the structural system. It is important
to note that the necessity of the upgrades and improvements is determined by
the type and extent of the work, not the expense.
   J.   The International Swimming Pool and Spa Code, 2015 edition, as
published by the International Code Council, 500 New Jersey Avenue, NW, 6th
Floor, Washington, DC 20001, chapters 1 through 11 inclusive along with all
appendices, is hereby adopted by reference as the town of Morrison swimming
pool and spa code as if fully set out in this chapter. The purpose of this code
is that it regulates the minimum requirements for the design, construction,
alteration, repair and maintenance of swimming pools, spas, hot tubs and
aquatic facilities. This includes public swimming pools, public spas, public
exercise spas, aquatic recreation facilities, onground storable residential
pools, permanent inground residential pools, permanent residential spas,
permanent residential exercise spas, portable residential spas and portable
residential exercise spas.
   K.   The International Property Maintenance Code, 2015 edition, as published
by the International Code Council, 500 New Jersey Avenue, NW, 6th Floor,
Washington, DC 20001, chapters 1 through 8 inclusive along with all appendices,
is hereby adopted by reference as the town of Morrison existing building code
as if fully set out in this chapter. The purpose and subject matter of this
code is a maintenance document intended to establish minimum maintenance
standards for basic equipment, light, ventilation, heating, sanitation and fire
safety. Responsibility is fixed among owners, operators and occupants for code
compliance. The IPMC provides for the regulation and safe use of existing
structures in the interest of the social and economic welfare of the community.
   L.   The Uniform Code for the Abatement of Dangerous Buildings, 1997
edition, as published the International Conference of Building Officials, 5360
Workman Mill Rd, Whittier, CA, 90601, chapters 1 through 35 inclusive along
with all appendices, is hereby adopted by reference as the town of Morrison
uniform code for abatement of dangerous buildings. The purpose of this code is
dedicated to the development of better building construction and greater safety
to the public by uniformity in building laws. The code is founded on broad-
based principles that make possible the use of new materials and new
construction systems. (Ord. 357, 10-21-2008; amd. Ord. 379, 3-15-2011; amd.
Ord. 477, 8-6-2019; Ord. 504, 1-19-2021)
9-1-3: AMENDMENTS TO INTERNATIONAL BUILDING CODE:
IBC Section 101.1. IBC section 101.1 (Title) is amended by the addition of the
term "town of Morrison" (the "town") where indicated.
IBC Section 101.4.3. IBC section 101.4.3 (Plumbing) is amended by deletion of
the last sentence.
IBC Section 101.4.4. IBC section 101.4.4 (Property Maintenance) is amended by
deleting this section in its entirety.
IBC Section 105.1. IBC section 105.1 (Required) is amended by replacing the
words "building official" with "town."
IBC Section 105.5. IBC section 105.5 (Expiration) is amended to read in its
entirety:
   105.5 Expiration
   Every permit shall become invalid unless the work on the site authorized by
such permit is commenced within 180 days after its issuance, or if the work
authorized on the site by such permit is suspended or abandoned for a period of
180 days after the time the work is commenced. SUCH SUSPENSION OR ABANDONMENT
SHALL BE DETERMINED BY THE BUILDING OFFICIAL IN THE OFFICIAL'S SOLE DISCRETION,
AND THE PERIOD OF SUCH SUSPENSION OR ABANDONMENT SHALL BE MEASURED ACCORDING TO
INSPECTIONS ACTUALLY CONDUCTED BY SAID OFFICIAL. The building official is
authorized to grant, in writing, one or more extensions of time for periods not
more than 180 days each. The extension shall be required in writing and
justifiable cause SHALL BE demonstrated.
IBC Section 109.6. IBC section 109.6 (Refunds) is amended by deleting the
section in its entirety and replacing the section with the following:
   The town may authorize refunding of any fee paid hereunder which was
erroneously paid or collected. The town may authorize refunding of not more
than 75 percent (75%) of the permit fee paid when no work has been done under a
permit issued in accordance with this code. The town may authorize refunding of
not more than 75 percent (75%) of the plan review fee paid when an application
for a permit for which a plan review fee has been paid is withdrawn or
cancelled before any plan review is commenced. The town shall not authorize
refunding of any fee paid except on written application filed by the original
permittee not later than 180 days after the date of fee payment.
IBC Section 113. IBC section 113 (Board Of Appeals) is deleted.
IBC Section 202. IBC section 202 (Definitions) is amended by addition of the
following:
   "Sleeping Room" (Bedroom) Any enclosed habitable space within a dwelling
unit, which complies with the minimum room dimension requirements of IBC
section 1208 and contains a closet, an area that is useable as a closet, or an
area that is readily convertible for use as a closet. Living rooms, family
rooms and other similar habitable areas that are so situated and designed to
clearly indicate these intended uses, shall not be interpreted as sleeping
rooms.
IBC Section 1612.3. IBC section 1612.3 (Establishment Of Flood Hazard Areas) is
amended by the insertion of "town of Morrison" where indicated in [name of
jurisdiction] and the date of May 6, 2003, where indicated in [date of
issuance]. (Ord. 357, 10-21-2008; amd. Ord. 477, 8-6-2019; Ord. 515, 10-18-
2022)
9-1-4: AMENDMENTS TO INTERNATIONAL RESIDENTIAL CODE:
IRC Section R101.1. IRC section R101.1 (Title) is amended by the addition of
the term "town of Morrison" where indicated.
IRC Section R102.7. IRC section R102.7 (Existing Structures) is amended by
deleting the words "international property maintenance code."
IRC Section R105.1. IRC section R105.1 (Required) is amended by replacing the
words "building official" with "town."
IRC Section R108.5. IRC section R108.5 (Refunds) is amended by deleting the
section in its entirety and replacing the section with the following:
The town may authorize refunding of any fee paid hereunder which was
erroneously paid or collected. The town may authorize refunding of not more
than 75 percent (75%) of the permit fee paid when no work has been done under a
permit issued in accordance with this code. The town may authorize refunding of
not more than 75 percent (75%) of the plan review fee paid when an application
for a permit for which a plan review fee has been paid is withdrawn or
cancelled before any plan reviewing is done. The town shall not authorize
refunding of any fee paid except on written application filed by the original
permittee not later than 180 days after the date of fee payment.
IRC Section R109.1.5. IRC section R109.1.5 (Other Inspections) is amended by
the addition of new subsections as follows:
IRC Section R112. IRC section R112 (Board Of Appeals) is deleted.
IRC Section R202. IRC section R202 (Definitions) is amended by addition of the
following:
"Sleeping Room" (Bedroom) Any enclosed habitable space within a dwelling unit,
which complies with the minimum room dimension requirements of IRC sections
R304 and R305 and contains a closet, an area that is useable as a closet, or an
area that is readily convertible for use as a closet. Living rooms, family
rooms and other similar habitable areas that are so situated and designed so as
to clearly indicate these intended uses, shall not be interpreted as sleeping
rooms.
IRC Table R301.2(1). IRC table R301.2(1) is filled to provide the following:
TABLE R301.2(1)
CLIMATIC AND GEOGRAPHIC DESIGN CRITERIA
 
Ground Snow Wind Speed  Seismic  Subject To Damage From          Winter Design
Load        (mph)       Design   Weathering Frost Line Termite   Temp
                        Category            Depth
37psf       130         B        Severe     36 in.     Slight to 1
                                                       moderate
 
 
Ice Shield Underlayment Flood Hazard Air Freezing Index Mean Annual Temp
Required
Required                05/06/2003   1000               45°F
 
IRC Section 313.2. One- and two-family dwellings automatic fire systems. Delete
this section in its entirety.
IRC Section G2415.9. IRC section G2415.9 (Minimum Burial Depth) is amended by
the addition of the following: All plastic fuel gas piping shall be installed a
minimum of 18 inches (457 mm) below grade.
IRC Section G2415.9.1. IRC section G2415.9.1 (Individual Outside Appliances) is
deleted in its entirety.
IRC Section G2417.4.1. IRC section G2417.4.1 (Test Pressure) is amended by
changing "3 psig" to "10 psig."
IRC Section P2603.6.1. IRC section P2603.6.1 (Sewer Depth) is amended by
filling in both areas where indicated to read "12 inches (305 mm)."
(Ord. 357, 10-21-2008; amd. Ord. 477, 8-6-2019)
9-1-5: AMENDMENTS TO INTERNATIONAL MECHANICAL CODE:
IMC Section 101.1. IMC section 101.1 (Title) is amended by the addition of the
term "town of Morrison" where indicated.
(Ord. 357, 10-21-2008; amd. Ord. 477, 8-6-2019)
9-1-6: AMENDMENTS TO INTERNATIONAL FUEL GAS CODE:
IFGC Section 101.1. IFGC section 101.1 (Title) is amended by the addition of
the term "town of Morrison" where indicated.
IFGC Section 404.12. IFGC section 404.12 (Minimum Burial Depth) is amended by
the addition of the following: All plastic fuel gas piping shall be installed a
minimum of 18 inches (457 mm) below grade.
IFGC Section 404.12.1. IFGC section 404.12.1 (Individual Outside Appliances) is
deleted in its entirety.
IFGC Section 406.4.1. IFGC section 406.4.1 (Test Pressure) is amended by
changing 3 psig to 10 psig.
(Ord. 357, 10-21-2008; amd. Ord. 477, 8-6-2019)
9-1-7: AMENDMENTS TO INTERNATIONAL PLUMBING CODE:
IPC Section 101.1. IPC section 101.1 (Title) is amended by the addition of the
term "town of Morrison" where indicated.
IPC Section 305.4.1. IPC section 305.4.1 (Sewer Depth) is amended by filling in
both areas where indicated to read "12 inches (305 mm)."
IPC Section 903.1. IPC section 903.1 (Roof Extension) is amended by inserting
the number "6 inches, (152.4 mm)" where indicated in the second sentence.
(Ord. 357, 10-21-2008; amd. Ord. 477, 8-6-2019)
9-1-8: AMENDMENTS TO INTERNATIONAL FIRE CODE:
There are hereby adopted by reference those amendments to the international
fire code, 2015 edition, recommended by the West Metro fire protection district
attached to Ord. 477 as Exhibit A. (Ord. 357, 10-21-2008; amd. Ord. 477, 8-6-
2019)
9-1-9: AMENDMENTS TO INTERNATIONAL ENERGY CONSERVATION CODE:
There are no amendments to the international energy conservation code, 2015
edition. (Ord. 357, 10-21-2008; amd. Ord. 477, 8-6-2019)
9-1-10: APPEALS:
The Board of Trustees shall act as the appeal body for any appeal brought under
Title 9 of the Morrison Municipal Code and shall follow the appeal procedure in
Article E of Title 10.
(Ord. 357, 10-21-2008; amd. Ord. 546, 6-18-2024)
9-1-11: ENFORCEMENT AND PENALTIES:
   A.   Unlawful Activity: Except as otherwise provided for in the amendments
for a code adopted herein by reference, it shall be unlawful for any person,
firm, partnership, corporation or any other entity to erect, construct,
enlarge, alter, repair, move, improve, remove, convert or demolish, equip, use
occupy or maintain any building or structure or cause or permit the same to be
done in violation of any of the technical codes contained in this chapter, as
such violations are defined in each of the respective codes and its amendment
(s).
   B.   General: Any person, firm, partnership, corporation or any other entity
who violates any provision of the technical codes contained in this chapter may
be punished by a fine of not more than two thousand six hundred fifty dollars
($2,650.00), or by imprisonment for a period of not exceeding three hundred and
sixty-four (364) days, or both such fine and imprisonment as imposed by the
municipal court judge; provided, however, that no person under the age of
eighteen (18) years shall be subjected to imprisonment for violation of any
provision of a technical code contained in this chapter. Each day that a
violation continues shall be deemed a separate offense. The penalties provided
in this section are intended to apply exclusively and solely to the technical
codes contained in this chapter and do not rescind, amend or otherwise affect
any other penalty provisions of this chapter.
   C.   Injunctive Relief: In addition to other remedies available to the town,
the town may commence an action in the district court for Jefferson County,
Colorado, to enjoin the alleged violation of any provision of this chapter, or
to authorize and compel the removal, termination or abatement of such
violation.
   D.   Additional Remedies: Any remedies provided for in this chapter shall be
cumulative and not exclusive, and shall be in addition to any other remedies
provided by law. (Ord. 379, 3-15-2011; amd. Ord. 477, 8-6-2019; Ord. 493, 6-2-
2020; Ord. 504, 1-19-2021)
9-1-12: FEES:
Any fees provided for by any code adopted in this chapter may be amended,
modified, increased or deleted at any time, and from time to time, by
resolution of the board of trustees. (Ord. 357, 10-21-2008)
9-1-13: LIABILITY:
The adoption of this chapter and the codes provided for herein shall not create
any duty to any person with regard to the enforcement or nonenforcement of this
chapter or said codes. No person shall have any civil liability remedy against
the town or its officers, employees or agents, for any damage arising out of or
in any way connected with the adoption, enforcement or nonenforcement of this
chapter or said codes. Nothing in this chapter or in said codes shall be
construed to create any liability or to waive any of the immunities,
limitations on liability or other provisions of the Colorado governmental
immunity act, section 24-10-101 et seq., Colorado Revised Statutes, or to waive
any immunities or limitations on liability otherwise available to the town, or
its officers, employees or agents. (Ord. 357, 10-21-2008)
CHAPTER 2
MOBILE HOMES
SECTION:
9-2-1: Use Or Occupancy Of Trailer Or Mobile Home
9-2-1: USE OR OCCUPANCY OF TRAILER OR MOBILE HOME:
   A.   Definition: A "trailer" means any coach, cabin, mobile home, house, car
or other vehicle or structure intended for or capable of human dwelling or
sleeping purposes or for use in any business or occupation, mounted upon wheels
or supports, and/or capable of being moved by its own power or transported by
another vehicle.
   B.   Placement Prohibited; Exceptions:
      1.   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, keep or maintain any
"trailer" as hereinabove defined upon any lot, piece, or parcel of ground
within the limits of the Town.
      2.   Storage: Any "trailer" as hereinabove defined which is parked on
private premises merely for storage purposes shall be excepted from the
provisions of this Section.
      3.   Temporary Occupation During Construction: Occupancy of a trailer on
private property during the time a residence on the property is under
construction is permitted as an exception to the prohibition of this section
9-2-1 under the following conditions, all of which must remain continuously
effective or in place:
         a.   A residence on the subject property must be under active
construction.
         b.   The persons residing in the trailer must be owners of the subject
property.
         c.   The subject property must be under an active and valid building
permit.
         d.   The period of occupancy shall not exceed six months or the term
of the building permit, whichever is shorter.
         e.   The period of occupancy may be extended for up to an additional
six (6) months by action of the Town Manager if the building permit remains
active for that additional time.
         f.   The trailer must be located within the building setbacks
applicable to the zoning district in which the subject property is located.
         g.   Adequate provision for sanitation must be provided.
         h.   Electricity to the trailer must be provided by a direct
connection to outside power; no on-site generators or the running of vehicle
engines to provide electricity or heat is permitted.
         i.   Permit process: Permits for temporary occupancy under this
subsection shall be issued by the Town Manager following a ten (10) day period
of written notice to all owners or occupants of property immediately adjacent
to the subject property. The Town manager may, in his or her discretion, refer
the application to the board of Trustees for decision. The decision of the Town
Manager (or of the board of Trustees, if referred) to grant, grant with
conditions, deny or revoke a temporary occupancy permit under this subsection
is the final decision of the Town, subject only to review in the District
Court.
   C.   Tents And Temporary Structures: It shall be unlawful for any person to
use or occupy a tent or other temporary structure for use as in any business or
occupation upon any lot, piece, or parcel of ground within the limits of the
Town except for the purposes of a fair, carnival, or town celebration.
   D.   Altering Trailers: Any action toward the removal of wheels except for
temporary purposes or repair or other action to attach a trailer to the ground
by means of posts, piers, or foundations shall not except said trailer from the
provisions of this Section. No trailers may be remodeled by additions, lean-
tos, or other like alterations for the purpose of converting the same into a
residence so as to not be subject to the provisions of this Section.
   E.   Penalty: Upon conviction for a violation of this Section, the person so
convicted shall be subject to penalty as provided in Section
1-4-1 of this Code, and every day of such violation shall be considered as a
separate offense under the terms of this Section. (Ord. 84, 8-2-1967; amd. Ord.
509, 8-17-2021)
TITLE 10
LAND USE CODE
CHAPTER 1
LAND USE CODE
ARTICLE A. GENERAL PROVISIONS
SECTION:
10-A-1: Purpose
10-A-2: Applicability
10-A-3: Title And Short Title
10-A-4: Effective Date
10-A-5: Severability
10-A-6: Official Zoning Map
10-A-7: Transition Rules
10-A-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this Land Use Code is to:
   A.   Promote the health, safety, and general welfare of the Town;
   B.   Reduce greenhouse gas emissions and prepare for the impacts of climate
change on the community;
   C.   Protect the character of historic and natural areas;
   D.   Provide a safe, efficient, accessible, and connected system of
transportation that emphasizes public transit, walking, and biking to enhance
options to reduce overall dependence on the automobile;
   E.   Preserve and enhance the scenic beauty, aesthetics, and environmental
integrity of the Town;
   F.   Encourage compatibility between different land uses and to protect the
scale and character of existing development from the encroachment of
incompatible uses;
   G.   Regulate and restrict the location and intensity of use of buildings,
structures, and land for trade, industry, residence, and other uses;
   H.   Ensure adequate public improvements are provided; and
   I.   Ensure that the cost of design and installation of improvements in new
developments are borne by the developer and persons purchasing the lots, and to
avoid any direct or indirect burden placed upon adjacent property owners or the
Town as a whole.
(Ord. 553, 5-20-2025)
10-A-2: APPLICABILITY:
   After the effective date of this Land Use Code, all buildings, structures,
and any portion thereof, and uses of land, whether existing or established
after the effective date, shall be subject to the provisions of this Land Use
Code, subject to the nonconformity provisions in section
10-E-8.
(Ord. 553, 5-20-2025)
10-A-3: TITLE AND SHORT TITLE:
   This Chapter, as amended from time to time, shall be known and may be cited
as the Town of Morrison Land Use Code. It may also be referred to within this
document as the "Land Use Code," "LUC," "Chapter 1," or "this Chapter."
(Ord. 553, 5-20-2025)
10-A-4: EFFECTIVE DATE:
   This Chapter shall become effective on June 18, 2024.
(Ord. 553, 5-20-2025)
10-A-5: SEVERABILITY:
   If any of the provisions of this Land Use Code are declared invalid, the
other provisions shall remain in full force and effect.
(Ord. 553, 5-20-2025)
10-A-6: OFFICIAL ZONING MAP:
   A.   The location and boundaries of the zoning districts are hereby
established on a map entitled "Official Zoning Map," as it may be amended from
time to time, which accompanies and is hereby incorporated in and made a part
of this Land Use Code.
   B.   The Official Zoning Map shall be available on the Town's Website.
   C.   In the event of a conflict between the zoning district boundaries as
shown on the Official Zoning Map and the zone district adopted by the Board of
Trustees by ordinance, the ordinance shall control.
   D.   Where uncertainty exists with respect to the boundaries of the various
districts as shown on the Official Zoning Map, the following rules shall apply:
      1.   In subdivided areas, unless otherwise shown on the maps, the
district boundaries are either streets, alleys, or record lot lines, and where
a district boundary line is approximately along a street, alley, or record lot
line, said street, alley, or lot line shall be construed to be the boundary.
      2.   In unsubdivided areas, the district boundaries, unless otherwise
shown on the maps, are streets, highways, or land survey lines. Where a portion
of any district is indicated upon the zoning district map as a strip
paralleling a street or highway, the width of the strip, unless given in
figures, shall be determined by the scale of the map.
ADD ZONING MAP
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/9a6914f5a72bae2e57403224685e1fbbc838f8a8/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1807.png]
(Ord. 553, 5-20-2025)
10-A-7: TRANSITION RULES:
   A.   Adoption Of Existing Conditions of Approval:
      1.   This LUC adopts and incorporates by reference the stipulations and
conditions from particular development approvals in effect under the previous
development code, as amended and supplemented, for the Town.
      2.   This LUC further adopts and incorporates by reference all
development plans, use permits, variances, stipulations, and conditions that
currently apply to any property prior to the date of adoption of this LUC.
   B.   Pending Applications:
      1.   A development application that has been determined to be complete by
the Town prior to the effective date of this LUC shall be decided under the
regulations in effect when the application was determined to be complete unless
the applicant requests review and approval under this LUC. Applications shall
not be processed under a combination of prior regulations and this LUC except
as stated in subsection B2 below.
      2.   Final development plans for a planned development that were
preliminarily approved prior to the effective date of this LUC, but with phases
requiring final approval after the effective date of this LUC may seek approval
in accordance with the standards and procedures of this LUC upon applicant
request.
   C.   Prior Development Approvals:
      1.   Any development approved under regulations in effect prior to the
effective date of this LUC may be carried out under the terms and conditions of
the approval and the development standards in effect at the time of approval,
provided the approval has not expired and the development complies with any
applicable standards of this LUC regarding ongoing operations and maintenance.
      2.   If the prior approval expires pursuant to Article E, is revoked, or
otherwise becomes invalid, any subsequent development of the site shall be
subject to the procedures and standards of this LUC.
      3.   Unless otherwise provided in the initial approval, any proposed
amendment to a permit or other form of approval issued under prior regulations
shall be reviewed based on the development standards in effect at the time of
submission of a complete application for the amendment.
   D.   Prior Violations: Any violations of previous versions of any code or
ordinance of the Town shall continue to be a violation under this LUC and shall
be subject to the penalties and enforcement set forth in Article E section 10-
E-10.
(Ord. 553, 5-20-2025)
ARTICLE B. DISTRICTS
SECTION:
10-B-1: Zoning Districts
10-B-1: ZONING DISTRICTS:
Zoning districts and associated purpose statements are established as shown in
Table B-1.
 
Table B-1: Zoning Districts
Zoning District                 Purpose Statement
                                The RR district is intended to maintain the
                                rural areas of the Town with a combination of
RR – Rural Residential        open space, low-impact and low-density
                                residential uses, and compatible agricultural
                                uses.
                                The RE district is intended for single family
RE – Residential Estate       residential development on relatively large
                                lots.
                                The R1 district is intended for low-density
                                residential development on a variety of lot
R1 – Low-Density Residential  sizes with a limited number of related civic
                                uses while ensuring compatibility with
                                surrounding patterns of development.
                                The R2 district is intended for a mixture of
                                medium-density residential uses with supportive
R2 – Medium-Density Residentiacivic and institutional uses while ensuring
                                compatibility with surrounding patterns of
                                development.
                                The HD district is intended for a mix of
HD – Historic Downtown        residential and commercial uses that seek to
                                preserve and enhance the historic downtown
                                character of the Town.
                                The MX-N district is intended for a mix of low-
MX-N – Mixed Use Neighborhood intensity commercial and residential uses in
                                areas adjacent to more traditional residential
                                districts.
                                The LI district is intended for a mix of heavy
                                commercial and light industrial uses that do
LI – Light Industrial         not generate significant adverse operational or
                                traffic impacts and that are ordinarily served
                                within direct access to major thoroughfares.
                                The PD district is intended to encourage new
                                and imaginative concepts in urban design and
                                land development to promote and improve the
                                health, safety, and general welfare of the
PD – Planned Development      residents of the Town and to create distinct
                                developments with unique urban design, mixed
                                uses, enhanced ecosystems services, and
                                substantial additional benefit to the Town that
                                would not otherwise be required by this LUC.
 
(Ord. 553, 5-20-2025)
ARTICLE C. USES
SECTION:
10-C-1: Permitted Uses Table
10-C-2: Unlisted Uses
10-C-3: Use-Specific Standards
10-C-1: PERMITTED USES TABLE:
   A.   A "X" in a cell of the Permitted Use Table indicates that the use is
permitted by right in that zoning district, subject to compliance with any Use-
Specific Standards cross-referenced in the right-hand column of that line of
the table.
   B.   A "C" in a cell of the Permitted Use Table indicates that the use is
permitted only after the petitioner obtains Conditional Use approval pursuant
to subsection 10-E-4C, and subject to any Use-Specific Standards cross-
referenced in the right-hand column of that line of the table.
   C.   An "A" in a cell of the Permitted Use Table indicates that the use is
permitted as an accessory use only in support of a permitted use on the site,
and subject to any Use-Specific Standards cross-referenced in the right-hand
column of that line of the table.
   D.   A "T" in a cell of the Permitted Use Table indicates that the use is
permitted as a temporary use only after a temporary use permit is obtained
pursuant to subsection 10-E-4E, and subject to any Use-Specific Standards
cross-referenced in the right-hand column of that line of the table.
   E.   An "*" indicates that a Use-Specific Standard cross-referenced in the
right-hand column of the table applies to the use.
   F.   A blank cell in the Permitted Use Table indicates that the use is not
allowed in that zoning district.
(Ord. 553, 5-20-2025)
10-C-2: UNLISTED USES:
When a proposed primary, accessory, or temporary land use is not explicitly
listed in the Permitted Uses Table, the use is not permitted in the Town,
unless Staff determines that it is included in the definition of a listed use
or is so similar to a listed use that it shall be treated as the same use.
Staff shall make that determination based on a comparison of the size, scale,
operating characteristics, multi-modal traffic impacts, storm drainage impacts,
utility impacts, and neighborhood impacts of the proposed use with other uses
listed in the Permitted Uses Table. Staff’s interpretation shall be made
available to the public and shall be binding on future decisions of the Town
until this LUC is amended to treat the use differently.
 
Table C-1: Permitted Uses Table
X = use by right; C = conditional use; A = accessory use; T = temporary use;
Blank cell = prohibited; Uses with an * = use specific standards apply
Zoning Districts                  RR RE R1 R2 HD MX-N LI Use-Specific Standards
Residential Uses
Dwelling, Single Family Detached  X  X  X  X  X           
Dwelling, Duplex*                          X  X  X       Subsection 10-C-3A1
Dwelling, Triplex*                         X  X  X       Subsection 10-C-3A2
Dwelling, Multifamily*                     C  C  X       Subsection 10-C-3A3
Group Home, Small*                         C  C  C       Subsection 10-C-3A4
Group Home, Large*                            C  C       Subsection 10-C-3A4
Nursing Home                               C  C  C        
Agricultural Uses
Agriculture Production*           X                      Subsection 10-C-3B1
Community Garden*                 X  X  X  X  X          Subsection 10-C-3B2
Equestrian Operation*             C                      Subsection 10-C-3B3
Public, Institutional, and Civic Uses
Art Gallery, Museum, and Library              X  X        
Cemetery or Interment Facility    C                       
Community Center                        C  C  X  X        
Day Care Facility*                         C  C  C       Subsection 10-C-3C1
Medical Facility                              C  X        
Parks and Open Space              X  X  X  X  X  X    X   
Places of Worship                          C  X  X        
School                                     C  X  X        
Commercial Uses
Adult Entertainment*                             C       Subsection 10-C-3D1
Animal Shelter*                               C  X       Subsection 10-C-3D2
Automotive Center and Services*                  C    C  Subsection 10-C-3D3
Bar, Brewery, or Distillery*                  X  X       Subsection 10-C-3D4
Bed and Breakfast*                            C  X       Subsection 10-C-3D5
Business or Personal Service                  X  X        
Fast Food Restaurant*                            C       Subsection 10-C-3D6
Fueling Station*                                 C       Subsection 10-C-3D7
Hotel                                         C  C       Subsection 10-C-3D8
Indoor Entertainment or                       X  X        
Recreation
Medical or Recreational Marijuana                C    C  Subsection 10-C-3D9
Dispensary*
Nursery or Garden Supply Store                X  X        
Office                                     C  X  X        
Outdoor Entertainment or                      C  C       Subsection 10-C-3D10
Recreation*
Parking Garage                                C  C        
Parking Lot                                   X  X        
Retail, Small                                 X  X        
Retail, Large                                 C  C        
Restaurant                                 C  X  X        
Self Service Storage Facility                         C   
Veterinary and Animal Services*               C  X       10-C-3D11
Industrial, Utility, Communication, and Energy Uses
Commercial Wireless               A  A  A  A  A  A    C  Subsection 10-C-3E1
Telecommunications Service*
Geothermal Energy System          A  A  A  A  A  A    A   
Quarry*                                               C  Subsection 10-C-3E2
Utility, Major                                   C    C   
Utility, Minor                    A  A  A  A  A  A    A   
Solar Collector, Ground or        A  A  A  A  A  A    X  Subsection 10-C-3E3
Building-Mounted*
Wind Energy Conversion System,    A  A  A  A  A  A    X  Subsection 10-C-3E4
Ground- or Building-Mounted*
Accessory Uses
Accessory Dwelling Unit*             A  A  A  A  A       Subsection 10-C-3F1
Barns, Sheds, and Outbuildings    A  A                    
Drive-through Facility*                          A       Subsection 10-C-3F2
Electric Vehicle Charging Station A  A  A  A  A  A    A   
Garage                            A  A  A  A  A  A    A   
Greenhouse*                       A  A  A  A  A  A    A  Subsection 10-C-3F3
Home Occupation*                  A  A  A  A  A  A    A  Subsection 10-C-3F4
Outdoor Eating Area*                       A  A  A       Subsection 10-C-3F5
Urban Agriculture*                A  A  A  A             Subsection 10-C-3F6
Recreational Vehicle and Boat        A  A  A             Subsection 10-C-3F7
Parking*
Rooftop Patio*                                A  A       Subsection 10-C-3F8
Short-Term Rental                                         
Temporary Uses
Food Truck*                                   T  T       Subsection 10-C-3G1
Garage Sale*                         T  T  T             Subsection 10-C-3G2
Governmental Storage                    X                 
Seasonal Sales*                               T  T       Subsection 10-C-3G3
Special Event                                 T  T        
 
(Ord. 553, 5-20-2025; amd. Ord. 555, 8-19-2025)
10-C-3: USE-SPECIFIC STANDARDS:
A.   Residential Uses:
   1.   Duplex Dwelling:
      a.   Each individual dwelling unit shall have a separate entrance facing
the street frontage to which the building address is assigned. Buildings on
corner lots may have entrances facing either street frontage.
      b.   When applicable, the following design elements of the Duplex
Dwelling shall be similar in shape, size, and design with the majority of
existing single family or duplex structures on the same block face on which it
is located:
         (1)   Roof pitch;
         (2)   Front porch width and depth;
         (3)   Front building setback; and
         (4)   Vehicle parking access (i.e., front-, side-, or rear- access
garage or parking area).
   2.   Triplex Dwelling:
      a.   Each individual dwelling unit shall have a separate entrance facing
the street frontage to which the building address is assigned. Buildings on
corner lots may have entrances facing either street frontage.
      b.   When applicable, the following design elements of the Duplex
Dwelling shall be similar in shape, size, and design with the majority of
existing single family or duplex structures on the same block face on which it
is located:
         (1)   Roof pitch;
         (2)   Front porch width and depth;
         (3)   Front building setback; and
         (4)   Vehicle parking access (i.e., front-, side-, or rear- access
garage or parking area).
   3.   Multifamily Dwelling: Multifamily dwellings shall provide parking to
tenants in a parking garage located within the primary structure.
   4.   Group Home, Small And Large:
      a.   Group homes shall be for the exclusive use of citizens protected by
the federal Fair Housing Act Amendments of 1988 (FHAA), as defined in the FHAA
and interpreted by the courts, or by any similar legislation of the State of
Colorado.
      b.   No group home shall be located within one thousand feet (1,000') of
any other Group Home.
B.   Agricultural Uses:
   1.   Agriculture Production: Agriculture production shall only be permitted
on lots greater than 21,780 square feet.
   2.   Community Garden:
      a.   Retail sales shall be prohibited on the Community Garden site except
for the sale of produce grown on that site.
      b.   The site drainage and maintenance shall prevent water and fertilizer
from draining onto adjacent property.
      c.   Refuse and compost areas shall be enclosed at ground level to be
rodent-resistant.
      d.   No outdoor work activity that involves power equipment or generators
may occur between sunset and sunrise.
   3.   Equestrian Operation:
      a.   A maximum of five (5) horses per acre shall be permitted.
      b.   As a part of an application for conditional use approval, equestrian
operation applicants shall prepare a resource stewardship plan that outlines
the best management practices to be implemented for the following issues, as
applicable: management of water quality, storm water, soil erosion, manure,
dust, pasture vegetation, pests, wildlife, and weeds.
      c.   Noise, fumes, dust, odors, vibration, or light generated as a result
of the equestrian operation will, at the property line, be below the volume,
frequency, or intensity such that they do not unreasonably interfere with the
enjoyment of life, quiet, comfort or outdoor recreation of an individual of
ordinary sensitivity and habits.
      d.   Hours of operation for public use shall be limited to eight o'clock
(8:00) A.M. to seven o'clock (7:00) P.M.
C.   Public, Institutional, And Civic Uses:
   1.   Day Care Facility:
      a.   Day care facilities shall not be located closer than five hundred
feet (500') to any other day care facility.
      b.   When a license is required by the state, proof of licensing shall be
presented with the application for approval. Day care facilities exempt from
state licensing requirements shall provide proof of exemption.
D.   Commercial Uses:
   1.   Adult Entertainment:
      a.   Adult entertainment uses shall be located at least one thousand feet
(1,000') from any residential district boundary, place of worship, or school.
      b.   Adult entertainment uses shall not be located closer than one
thousand feet (1,000') to any other adult entertainment uses.
   2.   Animal Shelter:
      a.   Any part of a building where animals are boarded shall be fully
enclosed, with solid core doors, and shall be sufficiently insulated so no
unreasonable noise or odor can be detected off premises.
      b.   No outdoor animal run shall be permitted within two hundred feet
(200') of any adjacent residential district or use.
   3.   Automotive Center And Services:
      a.   All major overhaul, body and fender work, upholstering and welding,
and spray painting shall be conducted within a completely enclosed building.
      b.   No outdoor storage of automobile parts, discarded tires, or similar
materials shall be permitted.
      c.   Outdoor storage of more than one wrecked or temporarily inoperable
vehicle awaiting repairs shall be prohibited.
   4.   Bar, Brewery, Or Distillery:
      a.   Bars, breweries, and distilleries shall not manufacture more than
ten thousand (10,000) barrels of beverages annually.
      b.   Bars, breweries, and distilleries shall maintain at least fifteen
percent (15%) of the gross floor area of the facility or five hundred (500)
square feet of floor space, whichever is greater, for public use as a tavern,
restaurant, or tasting area.
   5.   Bed And Breakfast:
      a.   The business owner or manager of the bed and breakfast shall be
required to reside on the property.
      b.   The exterior design of any exterior modification of the structure
shall include façade articulation, and numbers and locations of windows and
building entrances on the primary building façade, that are similar to single
family detached dwellings in the surrounding area and neighborhood.
   6.   Fast Food Restaurant:
      a.   Fast food restaurants shall not be located closer than five hundred
feet (500') to any other fast food restaurant uses.
      b.   Fast food restaurants shall only be permitted on properties abutting
a collector or arterial street.
   7.   Fueling Station:
      a.   Outdoor storage of any wrecked or inoperable vehicles shall be
prohibited.
      b.   Fuel canopies shall be located to the side or rear of properties to
minimize visual impact from public streets.
   8.   Hotel:
      a.   In the HD district, there shall be a maximum of one hotel with a
maximum of twenty five (25) rooms.
      b.   In the MX-N district:
         (1)   Hotels shall only be located in the East Planning Area.
         (2)   There shall be a maximum of one hotel with a maximum of ninety
(90) rooms.
         (3)   Hotels shall provide parking for guests in a parking garage
located within the primary structure.
   9.   Medical Or Recreational Marijuana Dispensary:
      a.   A maximum of one medical or recreational marijuana dispensary shall
be permitted in the Town.
      b.   Medical or Recreational Marijuana Dispensaries shall obtain a
license in accordance with Title 3 Chapter 7 of the Morrison Municipal Code
prior to conditional use approval issuance.
      c.   In addition to the requirements in Title 3 Chapter 7 of the Morrison
Municipal Code, the Board of Trustees may require additional standards and fees
for Medical or Recreational Marijuana Dispensaries to ensure that the use
promotes the public welfare, health and safety of the Town residents.
   10.   Outdoor Entertainment Or Recreation:
      a.   Ecotours and rafting shall be permitted as a use by right in all
districts in the Town.
      b.   All lighting installations shall be designed to achieve no greater
than the minimal illuminance levels for the activity as recommended by the
Illuminating Engineering Society of North America (IESNA RP-6: Sports and
Recreational Area Lighting).
      c.   All lighting fixtures shall be installed so that light trespass from
any property line, except a property line abutting a public street, shall not
exceed two (2) footcandles at a point one meter beyond the property line.
      d.   Field lighting for all outdoor recreational facilities shall be
turned off within thirty (30) minutes after the completion of the last event of
the night.
   11.   Veterinary And Animal Services:
      a.   Any part of a building where animals are boarded shall be fully
enclosed, with solid core doors, and shall be sufficiently insulated so no
unreasonable noise or odor can be detected off premises.
      b.   No outdoor animal run shall be permitted within two hundred feet
(200') of any adjacent residential district or use.
E.   Industrial, Utility, Communication, And Energy Uses:
   1.   Commercial Wireless Telecommunications Service (CWTS):
      a.   A conditional use permit shall be required for all CWTS facilities
including those established as accessory uses.
      b.   CWTS facilities shall be co-located to the maximum extent
practicable. If co-location is not possible, a sworn statement shall be
submitted documenting why co-location on an existing communication tower cannot
meet the petitioner's requirements. Such statement must demonstrate that
colocation of communication facilities on an existing communication tower is
not a viable option because colocation:
         (1)   Would not result in the same communication service,
functionality, coverage, and capacity;
         (2)   Is technically infeasible; or
         (3)   Is an economic burden to the petitioner.
      c.   All antennas, communication towers, other CWTS structures and any
other wiring shall comply with the following requirements:
         (1)   All applicable provisions of this LUC, Building Code, as
amended, and the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) when applicable.
         (2)   All communication towers and communication equipment shall be
certified by a qualified and licensed professional engineer to conform to the
latest structural standards and wind loading requirements of the Building Code,
as amended, and the Electronics Industry Association.
         (3)   With the exception of necessary electric and telephone service
and connection lines, no part of any communication equipment or communication
tower nor any lines, cables, equipment or wires or braces in connection with
either shall at any time extend across or over any part of a right-of-way,
public street, highway, sidewalk, trail, or property line without appropriate
approval in writing.
         (4)   All communication towers and communication equipment shall be
designed to conform to accepted electrical engineering methods and practices
and to comply with the provisions of the National Electrical Code, as amended.
         (5)   All communication towers and communication equipment shall be
constructed to conform to the requirements of the Occupational Safety and
Health Administration (OSHA).
         (6)   All communication towers and communication equipment shall be
designed and constructed to all applicable standards of the American National
Standards Institute (ANSI) manual, as amended.
         (7)   An engineer's certification shall be submitted for all
communication towers and all other communication equipment to document and
verify the design specifications, including, but not limited to, the foundation
for all towers, anchors for all guy wires (if used), the location of all co-
location sites, calculated fall zone, and strength requirements to withstand
natural forces such as ice, wind, and earth movements.
         (8)   All communication towers shall be of monopole design.
         (9)   Communication towers shall be set back from all property lines a
minimum distance equal to the calculated fall zone, as set forth in the
petitioner's engineering certification for the communication tower.
         (10)   Only lighting that is for safety or security reasons or
required by the FAA or other federal or state authority, shall be permitted.
All lighting shall meet requirements of this LUC, except where state or federal
requirements provide otherwise.
      d.   Each tower and antenna shall be masked, colored, or enclosed to
appear visually similar to the surface on which it is mounted, or to minimize
visual differences in color and texture when viewed against its background from
public streets and open spaces, to reduce negative visual impact.
      e.   The outermost perimeter or security fence of a communication
facility shall be screened with a solid fence or wall at between eight and ten
feet (8' - 10') in height and shall provide at least one tree and three (3)
shrubs per ten (10) linear feet of fencing to minimize the visual impact of the
use on surrounding properties, public streets, and public open spaces. Required
plantings shall be located on the side of the fence closest to abutting
properties.
      f.   Any tower unused or left abandoned for six (6) months shall be
removed by the tower owner at the owner's expense. Should the communication
tower owner fail to remove the tower after thirty (30) days from the date a
notice of violation is issued, the Town may remove the tower and bill the owner
for the costs of removal and cleanup of the site.
   2.   Quarry: There shall be a maximum of one quarry permitted in the Town.
   3.   Ground- Or Building-Mounted Solar Collectors: Accessory ground-mounted
solar collectors shall:
      a.   Be set back at least six feet (6') from the side and rear property
line;
      b.   Not be located within an easement;
      c.   Be located to minimize glare visible from abutting properties; and
      d.   Not exceed fifteen feet (15') in height with panels oriented in
vertical position.
   4.   Ground- Or Building-Mounted Wind Energy Conversion System (WECS).
      a.   Ground- or building-mounted WECS shall require a conditional use
permit in all residential zone districts.
      b.   A ground-mounted WECS located on a single lot shall be set back from
each property line at least 1.1 times the total height of the WECS.
      c.   A WECS that is placed on a primary or accessory structure and does
not exceed the maximum height in the applicable zoning district shall meet the
minimum setback for the primary or accessory structure in the zoning district
where it is located.
      d.   The blades of a WECS placed on a primary building shall not extend
beyond the property line in any operational position.
      e.   Each ground-mounted WECS with blades that spin on a horizontal axis
and with a height of more than thirty feet (30') shall not be located within
six hundred feet (600') of any State wildlife management areas, wetlands, and
flood control reservoirs.
F.   Accessory Uses:
   1.   Accessory Dwelling Unit:
      a.   There shall be no more than one accessory dwelling unit on a lot.
      b.   An accessory dwelling unit may not exceed nine hundred (900) square
feet of gross floor area.
      c.   No portion of a lot on which an accessory dwelling unit is located
may be subdivided from or legally described differently than, the lot
containing the primary residential unit, and no portion of a structure
containing an accessory dwelling unit may have ownership different from the
ownership of the primary dwelling unit.
      d.   There shall be one additional off-street parking space provided for
the accessory dwelling unit.
      e.   Recreational vehicles may not be used as accessory dwelling units.
   2.   Drive-Through Facility:
      a.   Drive-through facilities shall be located, sized, and designed to
minimize pollution, noise, and glare impacts on surrounding properties.
      b.   Drive-through facilities shall not create traffic impacts on
surrounding roadways and all vehicular traffic related to the drive through
shall be self-contained on the property.
      c.   Drive-through facilities shall be buffered from adjacent rights-of-
way and properties through architectural elements, screening, landscaping, or
site design.
   3.   Greenhouse: Greenhouses and hoop houses shall be limited to a maximum
height of fifteen feet (15') and shall be located at least ten feet (10') from
any lot line.
   4.   Home Occupation:
      a.   Home occupations shall not involve internal or external alterations
or construction features not normally found in dwellings.
      b.   Home occupations that involve boarding animals shall be limited to
six (6) animals at any one time.
      c.   No home occupation may use mechanical equipment or any device that
creates noise, vibration, glare, fumes, odors, or electrical interference
detectable off the premises, including those that create visual or audible
interference on any radio or television receiver located off the premises.
      d.   Exterior storage of equipment or materials in connection with the
home occupation and display of products, goods, or services that are visible
from outside the dwelling unit shall be prohibited.
   5.   Outdoor Eating Area: Outdoor eating areas shall not interfere with
pedestrian access to any public or private door, shall provide at least thirty
six inches (36") wide of unobstructed sidewalk for pedestrian traffic, and
shall not obstruct required parking or parking lot circulation.
   6.   Urban Agriculture:
      a.   Retail sales shall be prohibited on the Urban Agriculture site
except for the sale of produce grown on that site.
      b.   Greenhouses and hoop houses are limited to a maximum height of
fifteen feet (15'), shall be located at least ten feet (10') from any lot line
and may not cover more than twenty five percent (25%) of the property.
      c.   Cold frames are limited to a maximum height of four feet (4') and
shall be located at least ten feet (10') from any lot line.
      d.   Agricultural stands are limited to a maximum height of twelve feet
(12') and shall be located at least ten feet (10') from any abutting
residential use.
      e.   The site drainage and maintenance shall prevent water and fertilizer
from draining onto adjacent property.
      f.   Refuse and compost areas shall be enclosed at ground level to be
rodent-resistant.
      g.   No outdoor work activity that involves power equipment or generators
may occur between sunset and sunrise.
      h.   Chickens and ducks shall only be permitted as a part of urban
agriculture uses on lots greater than five thousand (5,000) square feet.
      i.   A maximum of five (5) birds shall be permitted per five thousand
(5,000) square feet of lot area.
   7.   Recreational Vehicle And Boat Parking:
      a.   Recreational vehicle and boat parking shall be permitted as an
accessory use to single family detached dwellings.
      b.   A maximum of one recreational vehicle shall be permitted per lot and
shall be located in a rear or side yard.
      c.   Overnight occupancy of a recreational vehicle shall be prohibited
except for a maximum of six (6) months while active construction occurs to the
single family detached dwelling located on the same lot as the recreational
vehicle.
   8.   Rooftop Patio:
      a.   Rooftop patios shall require a conditional use permit.
      b.   Rooftop patios including all appurtenances thereto shall not exceed
the maximum height permitted in the zoning district to which it is located.
      c.   Rooftop patios are restricted to use by customers and employees of
the principal business within the building, for seating and consumption of food
and beverages, to the extent permitted to the principal business.
      d.   Hours of operation shall be limited to eight o'clock (8:00) A.M. to
nine o'clock (9:00) P.M. Sunday through Thursday and eight o'clock (8:00) A.M.
to eleven o'clock (11:00) P.M. Friday and Saturday.
      e.   No lighting shall be erected above four feet (4') from floor level.
      f.   No amplified sound or live music shall be permitted.
      g.   Service of alcohol beverages on a rooftop patio is permitted only
upon approval of a liquor license for such use.
      h.   Maximum square feet shall not exceed seven hundred fifty (750)
square feet, excluding stairwells but including walkways, service areas and
seating.
      i.   Maximum occupancy shall not exceed fifty (50) persons.
G.   Temporary Uses:
   1.   Food Truck:
      a.   Only one food truck shall be permitted per lot and per temporary use
permit for a food truck. Requests for multiple food trucks on a single lot
shall require a special event temporary use permit.
      b.   A business license shall be obtained prior to issuance of a
temporary use permit for a food truck.
      c.   Operators shall maintain trash receptacles and all areas used for
food vending in a safe and clean condition.
      d.   Food trucks shall not obstruct pedestrian or bicycle access or
passage, or parking lot circulation.
   2.   Garage Sale: A temporary use permit shall not be required for a garage
sale provided that the sale takes place entirely within a residential use and
occurs for less than four (4) days in a calendar year.
   3.   Seasonal Sales:
      a.   The temporary use shall be located on a lot that fronts on a
collector or arterial street.
      b.   The temporary use shall be located at least fifty feet (50') from
any residential district.
(Ord. 553, 5-20-2025)
ARTICLE D. DIMENSIONAL AND DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS
SECTION:
10-D-1: Applicability
10-D-2: Dimensional Standards
10-D-3: Subdivision Standards
10-D-4: Sensitive Lands, Stormwater, And Drainage
10-D-5: Access And Connectivity
10-D-6: Parking And Loading
10-D-7: Landscaping
10-D-8: Screening
10-D-9: Fences And Walls
10-D-10: Signs
10-D-11: Exterior Lighting
10-D-12: Building Design
10-D-1: APPLICABILITY:
   The requirements of this Article apply to all new developments and
subdivisions, and substantial improvement of existing development unless
specifically stated otherwise in this Article.
(Ord. 553, 5-20-2025)
10-D-2: DIMENSIONAL STANDARDS:
All development shall comply with the dimensional standards as shown in Table
D-1 unless otherwise stated in this LUC.
 
Table D-1: Dimensional Standards
District  RR       RE       R1        R2        HD        MX-N      LI
Minimum Lot Dimensions
Lot Area  5 acres  20,000   7,500 sq. 7,500 sq. 2,500 sq. 2,500 sq. 10,000 sq.
                   sq. ft.  ft.       ft.       ft.       ft.       ft.
Lot Width 150 feet 100 feet 50 feet   50 feet   25 feet   25 feet   75 feet
Minimum Building Setback in Feet
Front     20       30       20        20        None      None      25
Side      10       10       10        10        None      None      20
Rear      10       10       10        10        None      None      20
Maximum Building Height in Feet
Primary   36       30       30        30        36        36        36
Structure
Accessory 24       24       24        24        24        24        36
Structure
 
A.   Application Of Setbacks:
   1.   No structure or use shall be located in a required setback or in areas
designated for private or common open space on an approved Site Plan.
   2.   On a corner lot, the owner shall designate one street frontage as the
front lot line, and all other street frontages shall be designated as side
street lot line(s).
   3.   On corner lots where potential front and side lot lines create a
continuous curve, a radial line intersecting the midpoint of the curve shall be
deemed the boundary between the yards.
B.   Exceptions To Dimensional Standards:
   1.   Steeples, bell towers, chimneys, roof-mounted mechanical equipment,
elevator equipment enclosures, and similar architectural and mechanical
elements may exceed the maximum height of the applicable zoning district by no
more than six feet (6').
   2.   Porches, balconies, canopies, stairways, steps, landings and decks,
covered patios, enclosed courts, eaves, awnings, bay windows, fire escapes,
chimneys, and steps may exceed the minimum setback of the applicable zoning
district by no more than thirty three percent (33%) of the depth of the minimum
setback that is required, but not closer than four feet (4') to a side lot
line.
   3.   Signs, fences, and gasoline pumps shall be permitted in front, side, or
rear setbacks.
C.   MX-N Height Bonus: For properties in the MX-N district located in the East
Planning Area, an additional twelve feet (12') of height shall be permitted for
each floor located within the primary structure that is dedicated solely to
parking. A maximum of twenty four feet (24') of additional height shall be
permitted.
(Ord. 553, 5-20-2025)
10-D-3: SUBDIVISION STANDARDS:
A.   Purpose: The purpose of this section is to:
   1.   Promote orderly, efficient, and integrated development;
   2.   Encourage the proper arrangement of subdivisions in relation to
existing or planned subdivisions in order to facilitate safe, efficient and
pleasant walking, biking and driving;
   3.   Ensure an adequate and efficient street system by regulating the
location, design, class, and type of street, sidewalk and other transportation
corridors; and
   4.   Secure adequate provisions of water, electric service, drainage,
sewers, and other facilities and services for the health and safety of Town
citizens.
B.   Applicability:
   1.   The standards in this section shall apply to all subdivisions in the
Town.
   2.   When a standard in this section may be applied at the site plan
approval stage in conjunction with a requirement in this Article D, Staff, in
its sole discretion, may allow compliance with a standard in this Article to be
deferred to the site plan application.
   3.   Standards related to street names and house numbers are located in
Chapter 2 of Title 7.
C.   General Requirements:
   1.   The standards in this section are minimum standards. The Town may
impose more restrictive standards when it finds that they are necessary to
conform the design of a proposed subdivision to sound engineering or design
standards or other standards in this Code.
   2.   To the maximum extent practicable, the design of subdivisions shall
comply with all other Town-adopted plans and policies.
D.   Subdivision Name: The proposed name of a subdivision shall be approved by
staff and shall not use a word that is the same as, similar to, or pronounced
the same as a word in the name of any other subdivision in the Town except for
common locational terms like hills and court.
E.   General Improvement Requirements:
   1.   Subdivision improvements shall comply with the Town Engineering Design
Standards as adopted by resolution of the Board of Trustees.
   2.   All on-site and off-site public improvements and common facilities that
are required to adequately serve the proposed development or are deemed
necessary to address the impact caused by the proposed development shall be
paid for and constructed by the applicant.
   3.   The public improvements and common facilities required to be paid for
and constructed as part of the proposed development shall be governed by a
separate development agreement, which shall include an adequate performance
guarantee unless such requirement is waived by staff because of a lack of
improvements required.
   4.   In addition to the particular improvements required by this Code, the
Town may require additional public improvements that are reasonably related to
the subdivision including parks, street trees, streets, sidewalks, public
sanitary sewer and water extensions, storm water management facilities, soil
erosion and sedimentation control, and monumentation.
   5.   An applicant may seek to stage or phase development to link the timing
of development with the adequacy of public facilities provided that the demands
for adequate public facilities generated by subsequent phases of the
development are adequately addressed.
F.   Roadway Improvements And Design:
   1.   Street connections shall be provided to adjoining undeveloped and
underdeveloped lands within and outside the Town to allow future development to
connect to a public street system.
   2.   Street systems shall be designed to be through-streets. Permanent cul-
de-sacs and dead-end streets shall only be used when topography, the presence
of natural features, or vehicular safety factors make a vehicular connection
impractical.
   3.   Alleys are permitted and encouraged and shall be:
      a.   A minimum width of twenty five feet (25'); and
      b.   Dedicated to the Town.
   4.   Street trees shall be installed on boulevards on public streets, shall
be included in the landscape plan for the property, and count toward the
minimum planting requirements in section 10-D-7.
   5.   Street lighting shall be installed in conformance with section 10-D-11.
   6.   The applicant shall construct or monetarily contribute to off-site
roadway improvements that serve the development based on the projected demand,
size of the property, and impacts caused by the vehicular traffic generated by
the subdivision including the frequency and size of vehicles accessing the
site.
G.   Sidewalk, Bikeway, And Trail Improvements And Design:
   1.   Sidewalks, bikeways, and trails shall comply with section 10-D-5.
   2.   Accessible curb ramps from the sidewalk to street grade shall be
provided in conformance with the Americans with Disabilities Act and other
applicable law.
H.   Natural, Archaeological, Paleontological, And Scenic Resource Protection:
   1.   Unless waived by staff based on evidence that no natural,
archaeological, paleontological, or scenic resources exist on the site, all
major subdivision and major site plan applications shall be accompanied with an
existing conditions map prepared by a licensed professional that outlines all
riparian areas, wetlands, critical wildlife habitat and corridors,
archaeological features, geologic hazards, and slopes greater than thirty
percent (30%).
   2.   No land disturbance of any kind shall occur within ten feet (10') of
any identified natural and scenic feature unless adequate mitigation measures
that reduce or eliminate the impacts of the disturbance on the feature are
approved by Staff.
I.   Easements: All easements and rights-of-way necessary to serve the
development shall be dedicated to the Town or the applicable utility provider
by the applicant as part of the subdivision approval process or through
separate instrument in a form approved by the Town Attorney.
J.   Utilities:
   1.   Utilities shall comply with Title 8 of the Code.
   2.   All new utilities shall be placed and maintained underground, unless
determined by the Town that extraordinary circumstances related to the physical
condition of the property render undergrounding impossible. Such utilities
shall be constructed within street rights-of-way or within easements dedicated
for such use.
K.   Maintenance:
   1.   Maintenance of newly installed public improvements shall remain with
the applicant for a period of two (2) years from final inspection or as
otherwise defined in a development agreement.
   2.   Following the expiration of the required maintenance period, the Town
shall assume responsibility for maintenance and upkeep of public facilities
upon the acceptance of such improvements in a form approved by the Town.
(Ord. 553, 5-20-2025)
10-D-4: SENSITIVE LANDS, STORMWATER, AND DRAINAGE:
A.   Floodplains:
   1.   Applicability: All new development and substantial improvements to
existing development in a special flood hazard area as delineated by the most
recent report available from the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) and
areas removed from the floodplain by the issuance of a FEMA letter of map
revision based on fill (LOMR-F) shall comply with the standards in this
section. If a building or structure lies partly within the floodplain, these
standards apply to the entire building or structure lying within any portion of
the floodplain.
   2.   Permit Required: A floodplain development permit issued pursuant to
subsection 10-E-4F shall be required prior to any new development or
substantial improvement that is subject to this section.
   3.   Standards:
      a.   No channelization or flow diversion projects shall be permitted
unless the applicant establishes that no adverse impact to adjoining properties
will occur and the historic flow with the same flow characterizations are
established upon completion of the channelization or diversion.
      b.   No new development or substantial improvement shall occur in a
designated floodway unless the applicant demonstrates through hydrologic and
hydraulic analyses performed by a licensed Colorado professional engineer that
the proposed encroachment would not result in any increase in flood levels
within the Town during the occurrence of the base flood discharge.
      c.   All structures shall have the lowest floor (including basement),
electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing, and air conditioning equipment and
other service facilities (including ductwork), elevated to one foot above the
base flood elevation or at least two feet above the depth number specified in
the Town's Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM) for areas designated as shallow
flooding.
      d.   Fully enclosed areas below the lowest floor that are usable solely
for parking vehicles, building access, or storage in an area other than a
basement shall be designed to automatically equalize hydrostatic flood forces
on exterior walls by allowing for the entry and exit of floodwaters by
including the following:
         (1)   A minimum of two (2) openings having a total net area of not
less than one square inch for every square foot of enclosed area;
         (2)   The bottom of all openings shall be no higher than one foot (1')
above grade; and
         (3)   Openings equipped with screens, louvers, valves, or other
coverings or devices permit the automatic entry and exit of floodwaters.
      e.   All structures shall be anchored to prevent flotation, collapse, or
lateral movement of the structure.
      f.   All structures shall be constructed with materials and utility
equipment resistant to flood damage below the floodplain grade.
      g.   All structures shall be constructed to minimize flood damage.
      h.   Electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing, air conditioning
equipment, utility meters, and other service facilities shall be located at or
above the floodplain grade and designed to prevent water from entering or
accumulating within the components below the floodplain grade. Water and sewer
pipes, electrical and telephone lines, submersible pumps, and other
waterproofed service facilities may be located below the floodplain grade.
      i.   Water supply and sanitary sewer systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the system.
      j.   Onsite waste disposal systems shall be located and constructed to
avoid impairment to them or contamination from them during flooding.
      k.   Materials which are flammable, hazardous, toxic, or explosive, or
that in times of flooding could be harmful to human, animal, or plant life may
not be produced, stored, or processed in a floodplain.
B.   Wetlands:
   1.   Applicability: This section shall apply to all subdivision and site
plan applications in the Town except when an applicant has complied with
subsections
10-D-3H at the subdivision stage.
   2.   Standards:
      a.   When there is a substantial likelihood of a wetland existing on a
property proposed for development, Staff shall require, at the applicant's
expense, a licensed professional to study the property to determine the
existence of a wetland and delineate the boundaries of the wetland on the
applicable property.
      b.   No land-disturbing activity, mowing, or temporary or permanent
structure shall be allowed within ten feet (10') of a delineated wetland.
   3.   A wetland buffer area extending ten feet (10') from a delineated
wetland shall be required on all delineated wetlands.
   4.   Draining of a delineated wetland shall be prohibited.
C.   Stormwater:
   1.   Applicability: This section shall apply to all subdivision and site
plan applications that propose to increase impervious surface area.
   2.   Plan Required:
      a.   A stormwater management plan shall accompany an application for site
plans for all properties subject to this section.
      b.   Stormwater management plans shall address the impact a development
will have on existing drainage facilities and how the storm drainage system
complies with this section and the Town's Engineering Design Standards.
   3.   Standards:
      a.   Stormwater facilities shall be constructed in conformance with Town
Engineering Design Standards as adopted by resolution of the Board of Trustees.
      b.   Stormwater runoff from a construction site directed to a wetland
shall be substantially free of silt and debris and shall be discharged at a
rate that will not disturb vegetation or increase turbidity.
      c.   Increases in runoff from the five (5) year and one hundred (100)
year frequency storms due to development, redevelopment, or change of use
activity on the site shall be adequately detained within the development and
released at a rate no greater than existed prior to the development or as
permitted by the Town's Engineering Design Standards.
      d.   No fences or structures shall be constructed across an open drainage
channel or easement that will reduce or restrict the flow of water unless part
of an approved retention or detention facility or a revocable permit has been
approved to allow the fence or structure. If a revocable permit is required,
conditions attached to that permit may require mitigation of impacts related to
the crossing.
      e.   The Town may require any water course or stormwater management
facility to be located within a dedicated drainage easement that provides
sufficient width for maintenance as further described in the Town's Engineering
Design Standards.
D.   Grading:
   1.   Applicability: This section shall apply to all subdivision and site
plan applications that include any land-disturbing activity that requires the
grading of slopes except the construction of public trails.
   2.   Standards:
      a.   All unarmored and structurally unretained graded slopes and fills
shall be limited to a 3:1 grade (three feet horizontal to one foot vertical).
      b.   Any graded or fill slope which exceeds a 3:1 grade shall be required
to use universally accepted armoring techniques, or retaining structures as
approved by the Town Engineer or, at the developers expense, certification by a
licensed professional engineer stating that the slopes can be stabilized by
plantings, vegetative seeding, mulching. When slope cuts involve rock
formations it may be required to be certified by a registered geologist.
      c.   Any graded or fill slope which exceeds a 3:1 grade shall be terraced
at twenty foot (20') vertical intervals. Slopes graded between 2:1 and 3:
1 shall have a minimum bench width of five feet (5'). Slopes steeper than 2:
1 shall have a minimum bench width of five feet (5') and may be required to
have wider benches upon Town Engineer determination.
      d.   Maximum slopes proposed within a minimum of twenty feet (20') of an
established property line or any required setback adjacent to a property line
shall be 3:1 tying into existing grades along perimeter or property line of the
site or retained via retaining walls or other acceptable measures.
      e.   For subdivisions of three (3) acres or greater and to the maximum
extent reasonably practicable, developments shall be designed in a manner that
preserves the natural topography of the site and minimizes the use of cut and
fill.
(Ord. 553, 5-20-2025)
10-D-5: ACCESS AND CONNECTIVITY:
A.   Vehicle Circulation:
   1.   Vehicular access and circulation for a development shall incorporate
the continuation and connection of public street roadways and associated
rights-of-way that have been extended or connected to the boundary of the
development site from existing or approved abutting developments.
   2.   The vehicular access and circulation for a development shall provide
for the extension or connection of proposed internal public street roadways and
associated rights-of-way to those boundaries of the development site whenever
such extensions or connections are or may be necessary to ensure that the
development site or the abutting property will have:
      a.   At least two (2) vehicular access points to and from an external
through street system;
      b.   Convenient and efficient access by vehicles needed to provide
police, fire, and emergency services; and
      c.   Convenient and efficient access by vehicles needed to provide other
public services.
   3.   An extension or connection of a public street roadway and right-of-way
to an abutting property, street, or right-of-way shall include the extension or
connection of associated bikeways and sidewalks.
B.   Pedestrian Circulation:
   1.   All developments shall integrate an interior and exterior pedestrian
network comprised of concrete sidewalks or asphalt paths for pedestrian
transportation and recreation. This network shall include pedestrian facilities
along street frontages and pedestrian connector paths between developments and
public destinations (e.g., schools, parks, hospitals), nearby trails, other
developments, and vacant land.
   2.   Internal sidewalks shall be provided that link abutting streets to
primary entrances of primary buildings on the site, link separate facilities
within the site to each other, and provide access to adjoining transit stops.
Internal sidewalks shall not be required for lots containing primary single
family detached, duplex, or triplex dwelling uses.
   3.   To the extent possible, all required external sidewalks shall be
located one foot inside the right-of-way to be dedicated to the Town. If
utility poles, trees, or other physical characteristics complicate
installation, then the sidewalk or path may extend into individual lots or
common area if the area of encroachment is placed within a pedestrian easement.
   4.   Sidewalks shall be constructed of durable, smooth, and skid resistant
material approved by the Town and a minimum width of five feet.
   5.   Where residential developments have cul-de-sacs or dead-end streets,
such streets shall be connected to the closest local or collector street or to
cul-de-sacs in adjoining subdivisions via a sidewalk or multi-use trail.
C.   Driveways And Access:
   1.   Every lot shall have sufficient access providing reasonable means of
ingress and egress for emergency vehicles and for those needing access to the
property for its intended use.
   2.   All driveway entrances and other openings onto streets shall be
constructed so that:
      a.   Vehicles may safely enter and exit the property;
      b.   Interference with the free and convenient flow of traffic in
abutting or surrounding streets is minimized; and
      c.   Shared driveways are provided to the maximum extent feasible to
minimize the number of access points to streets (except for driveways within
residential subdivisions or along private residential streets).
   3.   All driveways from existing private or public roads that interfere with
a natural or constructed drainage course shall provide a drainage culvert
approved by the Town Engineer.
   4.   No entrance or drive shall be installed within forty feet (40') of any
intersection.
   5.   For residential uses, a maximum of one driveway access point shall be
permitted, regardless of the number of street frontages, except that a circle
drive shall be permitted according to the following standards:
      a.   The maximum circle drive width shall be ten feet (10');
      b.   The lot shall have at minimum of one hundred twenty feet (120') of
street frontage on the street the circle drive will access; and
      c.   The minimum distance between the driveway access points of a circle
drive shall be sixty feet (60'), measured from the inside edge of each driveway
where it intersects the public right-of-way.
   6.   For residential uses, there shall be no direct driveway access to any
arterial street or highway unless no other legal access alternative is
available.
   7.   For new development, all driveway aprons onto a street shall be
constructed of concrete.
   8.   Drive cuts shall ramp to meet the pedestrian and/or bicycle facility in
order to keep the pedestrian and/or bicycle facility at the same grade.
D.   Vision Clearance Triangle:
   1.   No obstruction that will obscure the view of motor vehicle drivers
shall be placed within the triangular area formed by joining points measured
thirty feet (30') along the property line from the intersection of two (2)
streets, or by joining points measured ten feet (10') back along a driveway and
lot line from the point of intersection of the driveway and lot line.
   2.   Within the area of the triangle there shall be no sight-obscuring or
partly obscuring wall, fence, sign, or foliage higher than thirty six inches
(36") above curb grade or, in the case of trees, foliage lower than six feet.
   3.   Vertical measurement shall be made from the top of the curb on the
street adjacent to the nearest street of the triangle or, if no curb exists,
from the edge of the nearest traveled way.
   4.   Vision clearance triangles for intersections may be reduced upon a
determination by staff that such a reduction is not expected to have a
significant impact on vehicle, bicycle, or pedestrian safety at the
intersection and such a reduction is within engineering standards or guidelines
for vehicle, bicycle, or pedestrian modes.
(Ord. 553, 5-20-2025)
10-D-6: PARKING AND LOADING:
A.   Minimum Parking Required:
   1.   The number of off-street parking for uses in all districts shall be
provided as shown in Table D-2 except as stated in subsection A2 below.
   2.   No minimum parking shall be required in the HD district except for new
Multifamily Dwellings.
 
Table D-2: Minimum Parking Required
Use                                    Minimum Required Off-Street Parking
                                       Spaces
Residential Uses
Dwelling, Single Family Detached       2 spaces
Dwelling, Duplex                       1.5 spaces per dwelling unit
Dwelling, Triplex                      1.5 spaces per dwelling unit
Dwelling, Multifamily                  1 space per dwelling unit
Group Home, Small                      1 space per bedroom
Group Home, Large                      1 space per bedroom
Nursing Home                           0.5 space per bedroom
Agricultural Uses
Agriculture Production                 None
Community Garden                       None
Equestrian Operation                   None
Public, Institutional, and Civic Uses
Art Gallery, Museum, and Library       1 space per 400 square feet
Cemetery or Interment Facility         None
Community Center                       1 space per 300 square feet
Day Care Facility                      1 space per 200 square feet
Medical Facility                       1 space per 200 square feet
Parks and Open Space                   None
Places of Worship                      1 space per 50 square feet of assembly
                                       area
                                       High school:4 spaces per classroom plus
                                       1 space per 300 square feet of
School                                 administrative office space
                                       Elementary and junior high: 2 spaces per
                                       classroom
                                       All others: 1 space per 300 square feet
Commercial Uses
Adult Entertainment                    1 space per 200 square feet
Animal Shelter                         1 space per 750 square feet
Automotive Center and Services         1 space per 500 square feet
Bar, Brewery, or Distillery            1 space per 400 square feet
Bed and Breakfast                      1 space per guest room
Business or Personal Service           1 space per 300 square feet
Fast Food Restaurant                   1 space per 250 square feet
Fueling Station                        0.75 space per fueling pump
Hotel                                  0.75 space per guest room
Indoor Entertainment or Recreation     1 space per 400 square feet
Medical or Recreational Marijuana      1 space per 300 square feet
Dispensary                              
Nursery or Garden Supply Store         1 space per 300 square feet of retail
                                       space
Office                                 1 space per 300 square feet
Outdoor Entertainment or Recreation    1 space per 250 square feet
Parking Garage                         None
Parking Lot                            None
                                       1 space per 250 square feet per business
Retail, Small                          plus 2 stacking spaces per service
                                       window
                                       1 space per 300 square feet per business
Retail, Large                          plus 2 stacking spaces per service
                                       window
Restaurant                             1 space per 250 square feet
                                       1 space per 20 storage units plus 1
Self Service Storage Facility          space per 300 square feet of office area
                                       plus 1 space per resident caretaker
Veterinary and Animal Services         1 space per 450 square feet
Industrial, Utility, Communication, and Energy Uses
Commercial Wireless Telecommunications Discretionary based off parking study in
Service                                subsection D
Geothermal Energy System               None
Quarry                                 Discretionary based off parking study in
                                       subsection D
Utility, Major                         Discretionary based off parking study in
                                       subsection D
Utility, Minor                         Discretionary based off parking study in
                                       subsection D
Solar Collector, Ground- or Building-  None
Mounted
Wind Energy Conversion System, Ground- None
or Building-Mounted
Accessory Uses
Accessory Dwelling Unit                1 space
Barns, Sheds, and Outbuildings         None
Drive-through Facility                 4 stacking spaces per service window
Electric Vehicle Charging Station      None
Garage                                 None
Greenhouse                             None
Home Occupation                        None
Outdoor Eating Area                    None
Urban Agriculture                      None
Recreational Vehicle and Boat Parking  None
Rooftop Patio                          None
Short-Term Rental                      None
Temporary Uses
   Determined on a case-by-case bases at time of permit issuance based off
parking study in subsection D.
 
B.   Unlisted Uses: For uses not listed in Table D-2, staff is authorized to
establish the minimum off-street parking requirement based off the listed use
that is deemed most similar to the proposed use.
C.   Shared Parking: Where two (2) or more uses within five hundred feet (500')
of each other share a parking lot or garage, the total off-street parking
requirement for those uses shown in Table D-2 may be reduced by twenty five
percent (25%). The total off-street parking required shall be the sum of the
shared uses parking requirements for the uses eligible to share parking minus
twenty five percent (25%). Shared parking reductions shall be approved by
Staff.
D.   Parking Study: Uses that reference this subsection in Table D-2 have
widely varying parking and loading demand characteristics, making it difficult
to specify a single off-street parking or loading standard. Upon receiving an
application for a use subject to this subsection, Staff shall apply the off-
street parking and loading standards based on a parking and loading demand
study prepared by the applicant. Such a study shall estimate parking demand for
the proposed use based on the recommendations of the Institute of Traffic
Engineers, Urban Land Institute, the American Planning Association, or other
acceptable source of parking demand data for uses and/or combinations of uses
of comparable activities, scale, bulk, area, and location.
E.   Accessible Parking: The number and design of accessible parking spaces
shall be pursuant to the International Building Code (IBC) as adopted in the
Morrison Municipal Code and the Americans with Disabilities Act, as amended.
F.   Parking Design And Layout:
   1.   Use Requirements:
      a.   No required off-street parking or loading space shall be used for
any purpose other than the parking of vehicles.
      b.   Parking shall be prohibited in aisle ways, rights-of-way, fire lanes
or similar areas not officially designated for parking purposes. These areas
shall be posted with "No Parking" signs and/or other means as required by
Staff.
      c.   Required parking spaces and areas shall not be used for the sale,
display, or repair of motor vehicles or other goods and services unless
authorized by a temporary use permit.
      d.   Parking shall not be used for overnight occupancy and parking of
recreational vehicles, campers, trailers, buses, vans, motor homes, moving
vans, refrigerator trucks, or similar vehicles, except as authorized by Staff
or this LUC.
      e.   No vehicle shall be stored in the same public parking space for a
period of forty eight (48) hours or longer.
   2.   Design Requirements:
      a.   Parking spaces shall be a minimum of nineteen feet (19') in length
and eight feet (8') in width.
      b.   All parking areas shall be properly graded for drainage and be
surfaced with colored concrete, asphalt, or dust-free permeable materials such
as permeable pavers or other surfacing as approved by Staff.
      c.   Parking areas shall be designed to minimize conflicts with
pedestrians and vehicles.
      d.   All parking aisles shall terminate with a bump-out for turnaround
maneuverability.
      e.   Curbs shall be installed at a minimum of three feet (3') from the
face of walls, fences, buildings and other structures adjacent to the exterior
boundaries of the property. These areas shall be landscaped except for required
pedestrian walkways.
      f.   Traffic control signs and/or striping shall be provided within all
parking areas as necessary to minimize vehicular and pedestrian conflicts.
   3.   Location Of Parking Areas:
      a.   For single family and duplex dwellings in all districts, off- street
parking areas shall be located in a garage or on a driveway.
      b.   For all other uses in all other zoning districts, parking areas
shall not be located between the front building façade and the adjacent street
frontage.
      c.   When residential uses are located to the rear of a proposed
commercial development on a corner site, parking and service areas may be
located to the front or side of the building; provided, that they are
adequately screened, so that the building acts as a buffer between the parking
areas and residential uses.
      d.   Required off-street parking, loading, and vehicle stacking spaces
shall be located on the same lot as the principal use, except as otherwise
provided in subsection B.
G.   Loading Spaces:
   1.   Buildings with over ten thousand (10,000) gross square feet shall
provide one loading space per every 10,000 gross square feet unless the
applicant can demonstrate that the use in question is not of the type to
warrant a loading space.
   2.   Loading spaces shall be ten feet by twenty five feet (10' x 25').
   3.   Loading areas shall not interfere with parking lot maneuvering areas.
H.   Electric Vehicle Charging Stations: Parking areas with twenty (20) or more
parking spaces shall provide a minimum of one parking space dedicated to
electric vehicles for every twenty (20) parking spaces provided on site. The
electric vehicle parking space shall be:
   1.   Located on the same lot as the principal use;
   2.   Signed in a clear and conspicuous manner, such as special pavement
marking or signage, indicating exclusive availability to electric vehicles; and
   3.   Outfitted with a standard electric vehicle charging station.
(Ord. 553, 5-20-2025)
10-D-7: LANDSCAPING:
A.   General Requirements:
   1.   No required landscape area shall be used for any purpose other than
housing landscaping materials including public benches and structures to
protect trees.
   2.   All required landscaping shall be installed prior to the issuance of a
certificate of occupancy for the property.
   3.   All required landscaping that requires irrigation shall be provided
with a permanent and adequate means of underground irrigation.
   4.   All landscaping shall be continuously maintained by the property owner
in accordance with the approved landscape plan except that all plants shall be
permitted to grow in natural patterns.
B.   Landscape Plan:
   1.   A landscape plan with designed landscaped areas shall be submitted with
all development applications where landscaping, buffering, or screening is
required unless the relevant decision-making authority determines that
compliance with the provisions of this Section can be demonstrated without the
use of a landscape plan.
   2.   The landscape plan shall show existing trees drawn to scale and
proposed trees after ten (10) years of growth.
C.   Alternatives Permitted: A reduction in the count, configuration, or
location of required landscaping materials may be allowed when alternatives are
justified by site or development conditions. The applicant shall provide
justification for the use of alternatives and shall demonstrate how compliance
with the standard(s) from which a deviation is sought will be achieved to the
maximum extent practicable. Conditions that may justify approval of an
alternative landscape plan include:
   1.   Natural conditions, such as watercourses, natural rock formations, or
topography;
   2.   The likelihood that required landscaping material would not achieve the
intent of this Code at maturity due to topography, placement, or other existing
site conditions;
   3.   Unique lot size or configuration;
   4.   Infill development or redevelopment on small lots;
   5.   The presence of existing utility or other easements;
   6.   The potential for interference with public safety;
   7.   Preservation of natural vegetation; or
   8.   Other situations where strict adherence to the buffer or landscaping
standards in this LUC are determined impractical by Staff.
D.   Approval Of Alternative Landscaping: Staff may approve alternative
landscape plans that do not meet the specific requirements stated in this
section, when the applicant demonstrates and staff determines that the
alternatives meet all the following criteria:
   1.   Do not include invasive vegetation or invasive species;
   2.   Provide equal or superior buffering of adjacent properties from
anticipated impacts of the proposed development; and
   3.   Provide equal or superior visual appearance of the property when viewed
from a public right-of-way.
E.   Minimum Landscaping Required:
   1.   Amount Of Plantings: Required landscaped areas shall be planted at a
minimum rate of one tree and three shrubs per four hundred (400) square feet.
   2.   Frontage Landscaping: Except for all single family detached, duplex,
and triplex dwellings or any use in the open space district, a landscape area
shall be established along all streets between the public right-of-way and any
buildings, parking lots, loading areas, storage areas, screening walls or
fences, or other improvements in association with any use. Any area within a
required front and exterior side setback area that is not occupied by
improvements associated with the primary use shall be landscaped.
   3.   Parking Lot Landscaping:
      a.   Parking Lot Screening Adjacent To Residential Uses: Off-street
parking areas that are located adjacent to Single Family Detached and Duplex
Dwellings shall be screened according to the following standards:
         (1)   A landscape buffer a minimum of ten feet (10') in width,
measured inward from the property line on all sides of the property abutting
the Single Family Detached or Duplex Dwelling; or
         (2)   A solid wall or fence no less than six feet (6') in height.
      b.   Parking Lot Screening Along Street Frontages: Off-street parking
areas shall be screened from all frontages facing a public or private right-of-
way, exclusive of driveways, according to the following standards:
         (1)   A landscape buffer a minimum of five feet (5') in width;
         (2)   A landscaped earthen berm a minimum of three feet (3') in height
with a slope no greater than 3:1; or
         (3)   An opaque decorative wall a minimum of three feet (3') in height
with openings six to eight feet (6'-8') wide to allow passage of bicycles and
pedestrians from the street into the parking area.
      c.   Parking Lot Landscape Islands: Parking Lots with more than ten (10)
spaces shall devote at least five percent (5%) of the site area to landscape
islands including a minimum of one tree and three (3) shrubs per every three
hundred fifty (350) square feet of landscape island area.
F.   Landscape Materials:
   1.   Native Plant Species: A minimum of fifty percent (50%) of the plants on
a development site shall be native species.
   2.   Non-Native Plant Species: Any non-native plant species shall have low
water usage and be drought tolerant and freeze resistant.
   3.   Artificial Plants: Artificial trees, shrubs, or plants (not including
artificial turf) shall be prohibited.
   4.   Plant Diversity:
      a.   No one plant species shall comprise more than fifty percent (50%) of
the quantity of required landscape materials.
      b.   For development sites five thousand (5,000) square feet or larger, a
minimum of five (5) different plant species shall be used in the overall
development site landscape plan.
   5.   Minimum Plant Size: All vegetation installed to satisfy the
requirements of this section shall meet the following minimum size requirements
at the time of planting:
      a.   Evergreen trees shall be at least eight feet (8') tall;
      b.   Deciduous trees shall have a two-inch (2") caliper; and
      c.   Shrubs shall be at least one-foot (1') tall.
G.   Existing Vegetation: Existing vegetation may be counted toward the
requirements of this section on a one-to-one basis upon a finding by staff that
the vegetation may be adequately preserved during construction and meets the
general requirements of this section.
H.   Trash Containers And Refuse Areas: All trash containers and refuse areas
shall be designed to be wildlife friendly and include wildlife-resistant trash
enclosures.
(Ord. 553, 5-20-2025)
10-D-8: SCREENING:
A.   Roof-Mounted Mechanical Equipment:
   1.   Roof-mounted mechanical equipment shall be screened by a parapet wall
or similar feature that is an integral part of the building’s architectural
design.
   2.   The parapet wall or similar feature shall be sufficient to screen the
mechanical equipment from all sides when viewed from ground level.
   3.   Building-mounted solar collectors shall be exempt from the screening
requirements.
B.   Ground-Mounted Mechanical Equipment:
   1.   Outdoor ground-mounted mechanical equipment shall be located where it
is not visible from public open space, public trails, public streets, or from
adjacent properties to the maximum extent practicable.
   2.   In cases when ground-mounted mechanical equipment is visible from a
public open space, public trail, public street, or adjacent property, the
equipment shall be screened from view by a solid wall or fence or a vegetative
screen that satisfy the following criteria:
      a.   The wall or fence shall be of a height equal to or greater than the
height of the mechanical equipment being screened and shall be compatible with
the architecture and landscaping of the development; or
      b.   The vegetative screen shall be planted along the full length of the
equipment to be screened and shall be of a height equal to or greater than the
height of the equipment to be screened at the time of planting.
   3.   Ground-mounted solar collectors shall be exempt from the screening
requirements when it can be clearly demonstrated that required screening would
reduce the efficiency or effectiveness of the solar energy equipment.
C.   Loading, Service, And Refuse Areas:
   1.   Outdoor loading, service, and refuse areas shall be integrated into the
building design if possible, or shall be located where they are not visible
from public open space, public trails, public streets, or from adjacent
properties, to the maximum extent practicable.
   2.   In cases when loading, service, and refuse areas are visible from a
public open space, public trail, public street, or adjacent property, the
loading, service, and refuse areas shall be screened from view by a solid wall
or fence a minimum of eight feet in height that incorporates at least one of
the primary materials and colors of the nearest wall of the primary building
(but excluding unfinished CMU block). Dense, mature landscaping may be used to
satisfy the screening requirement with approval by staff, provided the
screening achieves a similar level of screening.
(Ord. 553, 5-20-2025)
10-D-9: FENCES AND WALLS:
A.   Maximum Height:
   1.   Walls and fences in front yards shall not exceed four feet (4') in
height except as stated in subsections A3 and A4 below.
   2.   Walls and fences in side or rear yards shall not exceed six feet (6')
in height except as stated in subsections A3 and A4 below.
   3.   Walls and fences necessary for security as a part of a nonresidential
use or around sports courts shall not exceed twelve feet (12') in height.
   4.   Fences constructed on top of a retaining wall shall be permitted an
additional two feet (2') of height above the applicable requirement.
B.   Materials:
   1.   Walls and fences shall be designed as an integral part of a new
development project and shall be architecturally compatible with principal
buildings in terms of materials, colors, and design.
   2.   Chain link, razor wire, barb wire, highly reflective corrugated
material, and nontextured or unfinished concrete or block materials shall be
prohibited.
   3.   Walls and fences shall be designed to be wildlife friendly and include
highly visible markers to ungulates and birds and methods to allow wildlife to
jump over or crawl under to access habitats and travel corridors unless
determined by Staff that no harm to wildlife is posed by an alternative design.
C.   Maintenance: All fences shall be maintained in good working order by the
property owner.
(Ord. 553, 5-20-2025)
10-D-10: SIGNS:
A.   Applicability:
   1.   This Section shall apply to the display, construction, erection,
alteration, use, location, and maintenance of all signs within the Town except
as stated in subsection A2 below.
   2.   The following signs shall be exempt from the requirements of this
section:
      a.   Any sign erected, maintained, required, or posted by the Town,
state, or federal government when erected and maintained pursuant to law or in
the public interest.
      b.   Any sign inside a building not attached to a window or door that is
not legible from a distance of more than three feet (3') beyond the lot line of
where the sign is located.
      c.   Any non-lighted sign not exceeding three feet (3') in height and not
exceeding three (3) square feet in area that is oriented, located, and designed
to be viewed by occupants or users of the property while on the property, and
not to be generally legible from abutting streets or properties.
      d.   Sound trucks or other moving advertising media while operating on a
public right-of-way.
      e.   Signs under twelve inches (12") in height to enable emergency
personnel to accurately identify structures or locations.
      f.   Any temporary sign erected during any period a property or a portion
of a property is actively listed for sale or lease and that does not exceed
twenty four (24) square feet in area or four feet (4') in height.
      g.   One temporary sign, located at a construction site or on a
construction barricade, beginning on the date a building permit is issued and
ending on the date on which the last initial certificate of occupancy related
to that building permit is granted.
B.   Signs Requiring A Permit:
   1.   All signs erected, altered, or replaced within the Town that are not
exempted in subsection A shall require a sign permit.
   2.   A new sign permit shall be required for any Substantial Improvement to
a property.
C.   Prohibited Signs: The following types of signs shall be prohibited.
   1.   Signs that contain stacked, multiple display faces;
   2.   Flashing, moving, or intermittently lighted signs;
   3.   Banners, pennants, streamers, balloons, flags, search lights, strobe
lights, beacons, inflatable signs, and costumed characters except as otherwise
provided;
   4.   Off-premises signs except as otherwise provided;
   5.   Roof-mounted signs;
   6.   Electronic message signs;
   7.   Any sign that is constructed to resemble an official marker erected by
the Town, state, or any governmental agency or that by reason of positioning,
shape, or color would conflict with the proper functioning of any traffic sign
or signal or would impair or cause confusion of vehicular or pedestrian
traffic; and
   8.   Any sign that contains any obscene wording or images.
D.   Maximum Height:
   1.   In residential districts, the maximum sign height shall be six feet
(6').
   2.   In all other districts, the maximum sign height shall be twelve feet
(12').
E.   Required Setback: Unless stated otherwise in this LUC, all signs on
private property must be set back four feet (4') from any public right of way
and may not be placed in street medians, Vision Clearance Triangles, or within
a required parking space.
F.   Maximum Number Of Signs:
   1.   A total of four (4) signs are permitted per use except as stated in
subsection F2 below.
   2.   The following signs shall be permitted in addition to the permitted
signs allowed in each district:
      a.   At each primary entrance to a residential subdivision, an additional
two (2) freestanding signs are permitted each with a maximum height of six feet
(6') and a maximum gross surface area one hundred (100) square feet.
      b.   Signs located on sites where subdivision, development,
redevelopment, initial construction, or other major improvement of the property
is under way shall be permitted an additional two (2) freestanding, wall, or
window signs that shall not exceed sixty four (64) square feet in total area
nor thirty two (32) square feet per face and shall not exceed eight feet (8')
in height.
G.   Maximum Sign Area:
   1.   On arterial street frontages, the maximum total sign area shall be two
(2) square feet of sign area for each linear foot of building frontage for the
first one hundred feet (100'), then one-half square feet of sign area for each
linear foot of building frontage thereafter as measured along the building
frontage (the longest building frontage with a public entrance), up to the
limit in subsection G3 below.
   2.   On all other street frontages, the maximum sign area shall be one
square feet of sign area for each linear foot of building frontage for the
first two hundred feet (200') of building frontage; then one-half square feet
of sign area for each linear foot of building frontage thereafter as measured
along the building frontage (the longest building frontage with a public
entrance), up to the limit in subsection G3 below.
   3.   Maximum total sign area per use shall not exceed six hundred (600)
square feet in any case.
H.   Design Standards:
   1.   No sign shall be placed that obstructs or interferes with a window,
doorway, or fire escape.
   2.   Signs shall not be placed in or project into any Vision Clearance
Triangle.
   3.   No signs except those of a governmental entity shall be erected or
allowed to extend over a public right-of-way, unless a revocable permit from
the Town is obtained prior to issuance of a sign permit.
   4.   No sign that is permitted to extend over a public right-of-way may have
a lower edge less than nine feet (9') above the grade level of the right-of-
way.
   5.   All permanent signs shall be constructed to meet Building Code
standards for wind resistance and wind loads. Signs shall be rigidly suspended
by means of fastening or support.
   6.   No signs shall be painted on, attached to, or affixed to any trees,
rocks, or similar organic or inorganic natural matter, or on any power line or
telephone pole.
I.   Operational Standards:
   1.   The property owner shall be responsible for removing abandoned signs
within five (5) days.
   2.   All signs shall be structurally sound and maintained in good repair.
The display surfaces of all signs shall be kept neatly painted or posted at all
times.
   3.   Any sign determined by staff to be a hazard to safety, health, or
public welfare by reason of inadequate maintenance, dilapidation, or electrical
shall be remedied immediately.
   4.   A noncommercial message may be substituted for a commercial message on
any sign permitted by this section.
J.   Temporary Signs:
   1.   Two (2) temporary signs are permitted per property.
   2.   Temporary signs shall not exceed thirty two (32) square feet in total
surface area per use.
   3.   Temporary signs shall remain in place for less than thirty (30) days at
a time and a total of one hundred twenty (120) days a year, except that staff
may, for good cause, extend the time up to thirty (30) additional days upon
written request by the applicant. Only one temporary sign per applicant shall
be permitted to exceed the time limit in any calendar year, except by
Conditional Use.
K.   Murals:
   1.   Mural signs shall be exempt from size and height limitations and not be
counted toward the maximum number of signs permitted on a property.
   2.   The proposed design and placement of the mural shall be included with
the sign permit application.
   3.   Approval Criteria: Staff shall approve a mural sign permit when all the
following criteria are met:
      a.   The property owner has given written consent for the mural to be
constructed on their property;
      b.   The proposed mural promotes and enhances the aesthetic beauty and
character of the Town;
      c.   The proposed mural is primarily artistic in nature;
      d.   The proposed mural is a “one-of-a-kind” work of art and does not
appear in any other public form including but not limited to advertising,
logos, and trademarks and including publications where the mural is used to
promote or identify the sponsor in any form; and
      e.   The proposed mural does not include offensive or illegal images or
language.
(Ord. 553, 5-20-2025)
10-D-11: EXTERIOR LIGHTING:
A.   Applicability: All new exterior lighting in all zoning districts shall
conform with this section except that the following shall be exempt:
   1.   Underwater lighting in swimming pools and other water features.
   2.   Temporary lighting for:
      a.   Decorative seasonal lighting provided that individual lamps have a
light output of seventy (70) lumens or less;
      b.   Emergency or nighttime work and construction; and
      c.   Theatrical, television, and performance areas, or for special events
authorized through a Town permit.
   3.   Lighting required by state or federal law.
   4.   Lighting necessary for athletic or recreational facilities.
B.   Nonconforming Lighting:
   1.   All lighting that does not conform to the provisions of this LUC shall
be brought into compliance by June 1, 2026. Until this time, no modification or
replacement shall be made to a nonconforming fixture unless the fixture
thereafter conforms to the provisions of this LUC, except that identical lamp
replacement is allowed.
   2.   In the event that an outdoor lighting fixture is abandoned or damaged
to the point of requiring repairs for safe operation, the repaired or
replacement fixture shall comply with the provisions of this Code.
C.   Prohibited Lighting: The following types of lighting shall be prohibited:
   1.   Florescent, low pressure sodium, neon, and mercury vapor light bulbs
and fixtures.
   2.   Lighting emitting a Correlated Color Temperature (CCT) in excess of
3,000 Kelvin.
   3.   Searchlights, laser source lights, strobe or flashing lights, illusion
lights, or any similar high intensity light.
   4.   Unshielded lights.
D.   Standards:
   1.   All luminaires shall be International Dark Sky Association compliant
and contain an IDA certification like the following
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/9a6914f5a72bae2e57403224685e1fbbc838f8a8/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1607.gif]
   2.   All exterior lighting fixtures shall be fully shielded so that no light
is emitted above a horizontal plane running through the lowest point of the
luminous elements.
   3.   There shall be no single lighting fixture brighter than 1,500 lumens.
   4.   Light intensity at ground level shall not exceed an average of two (2)
footcandles within a uniformity ratio of fifteen (15) to one (15:1), except
that parking lots with ten (10) or more spaces shall not exceed an average of
five (5) footcandles with a uniformity ratio of ten to one (10:1).
   5.   Fixtures located on buildings shall not be located above the eave line
or above the top of the parapet wall.
   6.   Fixtures affixed to a pole shall not exceed twelve feet (12') in
height.
   7.   All luminaires that are mounted on a building wall facing a lot line
adjacent to a residential use or public right-of-way shall be fitted with a
shield on the side facing the residential use or public right-of-way to
minimize any light trespass.
   8.   A photometric plan shall be required with all site plans that
demonstrates conformance with this section.
E.   Pedestrian Lighting:
   1.   Pedestrian street lighting in the right-of-way shall be provided as a
part of all new development and Substantial Improvements.
   2.   Pedestrian street lighting shall be of the same architectural design as
existing pedestrian lighting in the Town as determined by Staff.
   3.   Pedestrian lighting shall be spaced every forty to fifty feet (40'-
50').
(Ord. 553, 5-20-2025)
10-D-12: BUILDING DESIGN:
A.   Applicability:
   1.   This section shall only apply to new development in the MX-N and HD
districts.
   2.   Existing structures that do not meet the requirements herein shall be
permitted to be maintained, modified, and altered without regard to compliance
with this Section.
B.   Building Form:
   1.   Building Masses:
      a.   To maximize the integration of the built environment with the
natural environment, and to minimize the distractions of the built environment,
all new developments must incorporate architectural elements that reduce the
apparent size and bulk of buildings by complying with the standards in this
subsection.
      b.   All required building masses shall:
         (1)   Vary in height vertically by a minimum of two feet (2') from any
adjacent mass or masses;
         (2)   Be one hundred (100) square feet minimum; and
         (3)   Have a minimum width and depth of six feet (6').
      c.   An upper story that is recessed by a minimum depth of six feet (6')
shall qualify as a visual building mass.
      d.   Depth and width dimensions shall be measured perpendicular to each
other.
      e.   Single Family Detached Dwellings:
         (1)   All single family detached dwellings under two thousand (2,000)
square feet in gross floor area shall be composed of at least two (2) visual
building masses of differing heights and at least two (2) visual building
masses of differing planes.
         (2)   All single family detached dwellings two thousand (2,000) square
feet or greater in gross floor area shall be composed of at least three (3)
visual building masses of differing heights and at least three (3) visual
building masses of differing planes.
      f.   Duplex, triplex, and multifamily dwellings over one thousand five
hundred (1,500) square feet in gross floor area shall be composed of at least
three (3) visual building masses of differing heights and planes.
      g.   Public, Institutional, Civic, And Commercial Uses:
         (1)   All Public, Institutional, Civic, and Commercial uses over one
thousand five hundred (1,500) square feet in gross floor area shall be composed
of at least three (3) visual building masses of differing heights and planes.
         (2)   In plan and elevation view, the largest single building mass
shall contain no more than sixty percent (60%) of the total building footprint,
and the largest two (2) building masses together shall contain no more than
eighty percent (80%) of the total building footprint.
   2.   Building Articulation:
      a.   Horizontal Articulation: With the exception of Single Family
Detached and Duplex Dwellings, all new buildings shall be designed to reduce
unrelieved planes by dividing façades into a series of smaller components. Each
building elevation, regardless of exterior wall plane setback or the location
of interior, shall incorporate at least one of the following elements for every
sixteen (16) linear feet:
         (1)   Projections, recessions, or reveals such as, but not limited to,
columns, pilasters, cornices, and bays, and having a change of wall plane that
is a minimum of twenty four inches (24") in depth and that has the effect of
casting shadows;
         (2)   Glazed windows and doors, if used to comply with this standard
shall comprise not less than thirty percent (30%) of the elevation of which
they are a part;
         (3)   Change in texture and/or masonry pattern; and/or
         (4)   Awnings or canopies extending at least four feet (4') beyond the
building face.
      b.   Vertical Articulation:
         (1)   With the exception of single family detached and duplex
dwellings, all new buildings over twenty four feet (24') in height shall
include at least two (2) of the following at the ground-level of the building:
            (A)   Incorporation of low planters;
            (B)   Use of base architectural veneer banding or a wainscot, and
treatments defined by different materials, textures, or colors; and/or
            (C)   Integrated pedestrian walkways, trellises, or architectural
awnings that provide deep shadow at ground level. This has the added advantage
of achieving a more articulated building mass.
         (2)   With the exception of single family detached and duplex
dwellings, all new buildings over twenty four feet (24') in height shall reduce
each upper level floor by at least five percent (5%) from the immediately lower
floor.
   3.   Transparency:
      a.   The ground-floor level of each façade facing a public street or
other public area such as a park or sidewalk shall contain a minimum of thirty
percent (30%) windows or doorways. Upper floors of each façade facing a public
street shall contain a minimum of fifteen percent (15%) windows. For these
requirements, a lesser amount may be allowed if limited by state and/or local
energy codes, up to the maximum percentage possible.
      b.   The proportion of solid area to window and door area shall be noted
on the elevations.
      c.   Storefront-type glass walls shall not extend in a continuous
unbroken façade longer than twenty feet (20').
      d.   Windows shall not be obstructed with permanent or temporary signage
except as allowed in subsection 10-D-10H.
   4.   Roofline Variation: The roofline silhouette of buildings shall be
varied to reduce the visual impact of line and form contrast with the natural
environment. To reduce the visual impact of roof mass, no roofline along any
building elevation shall exceed fifty feet (50') in length without a visual
variation that incorporates:
      a.   Projections, recessions, dormers that alter the vertical or
horizontal plane of the roof by at least two feet (2');
      b.   Change in roof height of at least two feet (2'); or
      c.   Distinct parapet designs and cornice treatments.
C.   Architectural Style:
   1.   Compatibility:
      a.   All new buildings shall be designed to be generally compatible with
the historic architectural design of the community.
      b.   All building façades facing public streets shall be designed with a
similar level of design detail, patterning, and finish. Blank walls void of
architectural detailing shall not be permitted.
   2.   Building Materials:
      a.   Prohibited Materials: The following materials shall be prohibited:
         (1)   Highly reflective, shiny, or mirror-like materials;
         (2)   Exposed plywood or particleboard;
         (3)   Volcanic rock;
         (4)   Concrete masonry unit (CMU) without an architectural finish;
         (5)   Vinyl;
         (6)   Fiberglass;
         (7)   Imitation wood applied to surface; and
         (8)   Imitation brick.
      b.   Primary Materials: At least thirty percent (30%) of any façade
facing a public right-of-way shall be comprised of:
         (1)   Natural brick;
         (2)   Natural stone; or
         (3)   Non-reflective metal.
(Ord. 553, 5-20-2025)
ARTICLE E. ADMINISTRATION AND REVIEW PROCEDURES
SECTION:
10-E-1: Summary Table Of Review Procedures
10-E-2: Common Procedures
10-E-3: Disconnection
10-E-4: Development Permit Procedures
10-E-5: Subdivision Procedures
10-E-6: Ordinance Amendment Procedures
10-E-7: Flexibility And Relief Procedures
10-E-8: Vested Rights
10-E-9: Nonconformities
10-E-10: Violations, Enforcement, And Penalties
10-E-1: SUMMARY TABLE OF REVIEW PROCEDURES:
   A.   Summary Table of Review Procedures: Table E-1 lists the development
applications required by this Land Use Code, whether a community meeting and
public notice is required, and the role of the Town review and decision-making
bodies in each application.
 
Table E-1: Summary Table of Review Procedures
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/9a6914f5a72bae2e57403224685e1fbbc838f8a8/IMAGES/0-0-0-1782.jpg]= Required; R = Review and Recommendation; D = Review and Decision; A = Appeal; < > = Public Hearing Required
                                                                                                                                                                                                 Review and
              Land Use                                             Notice                                                                                                                        Decision-
Procedure     Code       Community Meeting                                                                                                                                                       Making Bodies
              Reference                                            Published                                 Mailed                                    Posted                                    Staff Board of
                                                                                                                                                                                                       Trustees
Annexation and Disconnection
   Annexations shall be in accordance with the Municipal Annexation Act of 1965, as amended, CRS §§ 31-12-101 et seq.
Disconnection Section                                                                                                                                                                        R     <D>
              10-E-3
Development Permits
Minor Site    Subsection                                                                                                                                                                     D     <A>
Plan          10-E-4B
Major Site    Subsection                                                                                     [https://export.amlegal.com/media/        [https://export.amlegal.com/media/
Plan          10-E-4C                                                                                      9a6914f5a72bae2e57403224685e1fbbc838f8a8/ 9a6914f5a72bae2e57403224685e1fbbc838f8a8/ R     <D>
                                                                                                             IMAGES/0-0-0-1782.jpg]                    IMAGES/0-0-0-1782.jpg]
Conditional   Subsection [https://export.amlegal.com/media/                                                                                            [https://export.amlegal.com/media/
Use Plan      10-E-4D    9a6914f5a72bae2e57403224685e1fbbc838f8a8/                                                                                   9a6914f5a72bae2e57403224685e1fbbc838f8a8/ R     <D>
                         IMAGES/0-0-0-1782.jpg]                                                                                                        IMAGES/0-0-0-1782.jpg]
Temporary Use Subsection                                                                                                                                                                     D     <A>
Permit        10-E-4E
Floodplain    Subsection
Development   10-E-4F                                                                                                                                                                        D     <A>
Permit
Subdivision Procedures
Minor         Subsection                                                                                                                                                                     D     <A>
Subdivision   10-E-5B
Major                                                                                                                                                  [https://export.amlegal.com/media/
Subdivision - Subsection                                                                                                                            9a6914f5a72bae2e57403224685e1fbbc838f8a8/ R     D
Preliminary   10-E-5C2                                                                                                                                 IMAGES/0-0-0-1782.jpg]
Plat
Major         Subsection
Subdivision - 10-E-5C3                                                                                                                                                                       R     D
Final Plat
Ordinance Amendments
Initial       Subsection [https://export.amlegal.com/media/        [https://export.amlegal.com/media/        [https://export.amlegal.com/media/        [https://export.amlegal.com/media/
Zoning        10-E-6A    9a6914f5a72bae2e57403224685e1fbbc838f8a8/ 9a6914f5a72bae2e57403224685e1fbbc838f8a8/ 9a6914f5a72bae2e57403224685e1fbbc838f8a8/ 9a6914f5a72bae2e57403224685e1fbbc838f8a8/ R     <D>
                         IMAGES/0-0-0-1782.jpg]                    IMAGES/0-0-0-1782.jpg]                    IMAGES/0-0-0-1782.jpg]                    IMAGES/0-0-0-1782.jpg]
              Subsection [https://export.amlegal.com/media/        [https://export.amlegal.com/media/        [https://export.amlegal.com/media/        [https://export.amlegal.com/media/
Rezoning      10-E-6B    9a6914f5a72bae2e57403224685e1fbbc838f8a8/ 9a6914f5a72bae2e57403224685e1fbbc838f8a8/ 9a6914f5a72bae2e57403224685e1fbbc838f8a8/ 9a6914f5a72bae2e57403224685e1fbbc838f8a8/ R     <D>
                         IMAGES/0-0-0-1782.jpg]                    IMAGES/0-0-0-1782.jpg]                    IMAGES/0-0-0-1782.jpg]                    IMAGES/0-0-0-1782.jpg]
Rezoning to   Subsection                                           [https://export.amlegal.com/media/        [https://export.amlegal.com/media/        [https://export.amlegal.com/media/
PD            10-E-6C                                             9a6914f5a72bae2e57403224685e1fbbc838f8a8/ 9a6914f5a72bae2e57403224685e1fbbc838f8a8/ 9a6914f5a72bae2e57403224685e1fbbc838f8a8/ R     <D>
                                                                   IMAGES/0-0-0-1782.jpg]                    IMAGES/0-0-0-1782.jpg]                    IMAGES/0-0-0-1782.jpg]
LUC Text      Subsection                                           [https://export.amlegal.com/media/                                                  [https://export.amlegal.com/media/
Amendment     10-E-6D                                             9a6914f5a72bae2e57403224685e1fbbc838f8a8/                                          9a6914f5a72bae2e57403224685e1fbbc838f8a8/ R     D
                                                                   IMAGES/0-0-0-1782.jpg]                                                              IMAGES/0-0-0-1782.jpg]
Comprehensive Subsection
Plat          10-E-6E                                                                                                                                                                        R     D
Amendment
Flexibility and Relief
Variance      Subsection                                                                                                                                                                     R     <D>
              10-E-7A
Minor         Subsection    As required for associated application
Modification  10-E-7B
              Subsection                                                                                                                               [https://export.amlegal.com/media/        As indicated
Appeals       10-E-2J2                                                                                                                              9a6914f5a72bae2e57403224685e1fbbc838f8a8/ in this Table
                                                                                                                                                       IMAGES/0-0-0-1782.jpg]                    E-1
Vested Rights
Vested Rights Section       As required for associated application
              10-E-8
 
(Ord. 553, 5-20-2025)
10-E-2: COMMON PROCEDURES:
A.   Purpose: This section describes the standard procedures and rules
applicable to all development applications unless otherwise stated in this Land
Use Code. Application-specific procedures in section 10-E-3 through section 10-
E-7 identify additional procedures and rules beyond those in this section.
B.   Community Meetings:
   1.   Purpose: The purpose of the community meeting requirement is to inform
the public of certain development permit and ordinance amendment proposals that
may impact the community. The community meeting will provide the applicant the
opportunity to answer any community concerns and solicit input about the
proposal to achieve the best possible application.
   2.   Notice: Notice of the community meeting shall be prepared by the
applicant. Notification of the community meeting shall be sent by mail and
electronically to all properties within one-half mile of the project site at
least fifteen (15) calendar days prior to the meeting date.
   3.   Timing And Location:
      a.   Community meetings shall be held prior to formal application
submittal.
      b.   The applicant shall arrange the date, time, and location for the
community meeting. The applicant shall coordinate with staff at least twenty
one (21) days prior to the community meeting. Community meetings shall be
scheduled for Monday through Thursday evenings and shall start no earlier than
five thirty o'clock (5:30) P.M. and no later than seven o'clock (7:00) P.M.
      c.   Community meetings shall be held no greater than ninety (90) days
from formal application submittal.
      d.   Community meetings shall be held at a location that is coordinated
with staff.
   4.   Meeting Requirements: The applicant shall present their request to the
attendees at the community meeting, and the applicant shall facilitate the
meeting. Staff may attend the community meeting and may provide information to
the attendees regarding Town regulations.
   5.   Meeting Summary: The applicant shall include a written neighborhood
meeting summary on the results of the neighborhood meeting with the formal
application. At a minimum, the neighborhood meeting summary shall include the
following information:
      a.   Proof of proper notice;
      b.   Copies of the sign-in sheets;
      c.   A summary of topics discussed by the applicant and concerns, issues,
and problems expressed by the participants; and
      d.   A summary of issues addressed by the applicant.
C.   Application Submittal And Fees:
   1.   Applications shall be submitted to the Town on forms established by the
Town. The applicant bears the burden of demonstrating compliance with
application requirements.
   2.   Staff may waive certain submittal requirements to reduce the burden on
the applicant and to tailor the requirements to the information necessary to
review a particular application. Staff, in their sole discretion, may waive
such requirements upon finding that the projected size, complexity, anticipated
impacts, or other factors associated with the proposed development clearly
support a waiver.
   3.   Application fees shall be paid at the time of submittal according to
the type of application on the development review fee schedule. The fee
schedule shall be established by resolution of the Board of Trustees.
   4.   When a consultant not on staff is necessary to adequately review an
application, the applicant shall pay the actual costs related to the
consultant's review of the application. Staff shall inform the applicant of the
necessity to utilize the services of a consultant and the applicant may choose
whether to proceed with the application.
D.   Abandoned Applications And Withdrawal:
   1.   If an application has not been resubmitted to address staff-noted
deficiencies within ninety (90) days of staff sending review comments, such
application shall be deemed abandoned, and all fees forfeited. The applicant
may be granted an additional ninety (90) days upon a showing that staff-noted
deficiencies are actively being resolved.
   2.   Applications shall not be submitted to the applicable review body until
determined complete by Staff.
   3.   After an application has been accepted as complete, the applicant may
withdraw the application at any time by submitting a letter of withdrawal to
Staff. An applicant is not entitled to a refund of application fees for
withdrawn applications.
E.   Minor Application Revisions: An applicant may revise an application after
receiving notice of compliance deficiencies following staff review, or on
requesting and receiving permission from the Board of Trustees after that body
has reviewed, but not yet taken action on, the application. Revisions shall be
limited to changes that directly respond to specific requests or suggestions
made by Staff or the Board of Trustees, as long as they constitute only minor
additions, deletions, or corrections and do not include significant substantive
changes to the development proposed in the application, as determined by Staff.
All other application revisions shall be processed as a new application.
F.   Concurrent Review: Where possible without creating an undue administrative
burden on the Town, this Land Use Code intends to accommodate the simultaneous
processing of applications for different permits and approvals that may be
required for the same development project to expedite the overall review
process.
G.   Staff Review And Decision:
   1.   Completeness Determination: Staff shall determine whether the
application is complete or incomplete within ten (10) business days of
submittal. A complete application shall be processed according to the
procedures in this article. An incomplete application shall not be processed or
reviewed. Any deficiencies noted by Staff shall be addressed by the applicant
prior to resubmitting the application.
   2.   Referral to Staff and Review Agencies: Staff shall distribute the
complete application to appropriate staff and review agencies, which may
include:
      a.   Colorado Department of Transportation Region 1;
      b.   West Metro Fire Protection District;
      c.   Urban Drainage and Flood Control;
      d.   Department of the Army;
      e.   Corps of Engineers;
      f.   Mile High Flood District;
      g.   Denver Mountain Parks;
      h.   Xcel Energy;
      i.   Century Link - Lumen;
      j.   Comcast;
      k.   Jefferson County Planning and Zoning;
      l.   Jefferson County Open Space;
      m.   Jefferson County Public Schools;
      n.   City of Lakewood;
      o.   City and County of Denver;
      p.   Morrison Post Office;
      q.   State Historic Preservation Office;
      r.   Jefferson County Historical Commission.
   3.   Staff Review And Application Revisions: Staff shall review the
application and shall consult with applicable Town departments and
participating review agencies. Staff shall submit recommendations and comments
to the applicant after such review. The applicant, upon request by staff, shall
attend a meeting with appropriate staff to discuss staff recommendations and
comments. The application shall not move forward for further review until staff
determines that the applicant has adequately responded to the Town's
recommendations and comments or the applicant requests that the application
move forward without responding to the Town's recommendations and comments.
   4.   Applications Subject To Staff Recommendation: If an application is
subject to staff review and recommendation per Table E-1, staff shall prepare a
written staff report that summarizes the proposal, findings, and
recommendations.
   5.   Applications Subject To Staff Decision: If an application is subject to
staff review and a final decision by staff, staff shall make a decision based
on the review standards applicable to the application type. The decision shall
be in writing and shall clearly state reasons for the decision.
H.   Scheduling And Notice Of Public Hearings:
   1.   General Requirements:
      a.   If an application is subject to a public hearing per Table E-1,
staff shall schedule the public hearing for either a regularly scheduled
meeting or special meeting with the applicable body.
      b.   All public hearings required by this Land Use Code shall be preceded
by the notices identified in Table E-1. Persons with specific issues or
concerns regarding a proposed application are encouraged to contact the Town in
writing, by phone, or in person prior to the hearing.
      c.   The Town shall be responsible for the accuracy of and proper
publication and posting of notice of the public hearing.
      d.   The applicant shall be responsible for mailing notice and
maintaining the posted notice once posted on the site by the Town.
   2.   Published And Mailed Notices:
      a.   Required published or mailed notices shall:
         (1)   Identify the application type;
         (2)   Describe the nature and scope of the proposed project;
         (3)   Identify the location subject to the application;
         (4)   Identify the date, time, and location of the hearing being
noticed;
         (5)   Identify where and when the application and associated materials
may be inspected; and
         (6)   Indicate the opportunity to appear at the public hearing.
      b.   Published notice shall appear in a newspaper of general circulation
in the Town at least fifteen (15) days prior to the scheduled hearing.
      c.   Mailed notices shall be sent by the applicant via first-class mail
to all property owners as listed in the records of the county tax assessor’s
office within two hundred feet (200') of the subject property, as measured from
property boundaries. Certified mail notice shall be returned to the Town.
      d.   The applicant shall provide notice by certified mail, return receipt
requested, to all mineral estate owners and lessees on the subject property for
development applications in accordance with C.R.S. § 24-65.5-103. Such notice
shall be provided not less than thirty (30) days prior to the initial public
hearing, or not less than thirty (30) days prior to the final decision if the
application does not require a public hearing. The burden of determining
mineral estate owners and lessees shall be on the applicant.
   3.   Posted Notice:
      a.   Required posted notice shall include at least one sign on the
subject property at least fifteen (15) days prior to the public hearing. The
sign(s) shall be clearly visible from adjacent streets or public rights-of-way
and shall remain on the property until after the hearing.
      b.   Staff may require additional signs based on access and configuration
of the property.
      c.   Required posted notice shall:
         (1)   Identify the application type;
         (2)   Describe the nature and scope of the proposed project;
         (3)   Identify the date, time, and location of the hearing being
noticed; and
         (4)   Identify a telephone number for additional information.
I.   Review And Decision:
   1.   General Requirements:
      a.   The applicable review body shall approve, approve with conditions,
or deny the application based on the approval criteria listed in this section.
The body may also continue the hearing upon applicant request or if additional
information is requested by the review body.
      b.   Decisions shall be in writing and shall clearly state reasons for
the decision citing the applicable LUC provisions.
   2.   General Approval Criteria: Decision-making bodies shall review all
applications submitted pursuant to this LUC for compliance with the following
criteria along with any other application-specific criteria:
      a.   Complies with applicable requirements including this Land Use Code,
Town, State, and Federal law;
      b.   Generally consistent with any applicable adopted Town plans;
      c.   Promotes the public health, safety, and general welfare;
      d.   Minimizes or mitigates adverse impacts associated with the
application; and
      e.   Will not result in significant adverse impacts upon the natural
environment including air, water, noise, stormwater management, wildlife, and
vegetation, or such impacts will be substantially mitigated.
   3.   Conditions Of Approval:
      a.   The review body may approve the application with conditions
necessary to bring the proposed development into compliance with this Code or
other regulations, or to mitigate the impacts of that development on the
surrounding properties and streets.
      b.   The Town may require that a development agreement be executed as a
condition of approval to any application.
      c.   All conditions of approval shall be reasonably related to the
anticipated impacts of the proposed use or development or shall be based upon
standards duly adopted by the Town.
      d.   During its consideration, the decision-making body may consider
alternative potential conditions, and no discussion of potential conditions
shall be deemed an attempt or intent to impose any condition that would violate
the federal or state constitutions, statutes, or regulations. Discussions of
potential conditions to mitigate impacts do not reflect actions by the
decision-making body unless and until the decision-making body takes formal
action to attach that condition to a development approval.
      e.   Unless otherwise provided in this Code, any representations of the
applicant in submittal materials or during public hearings shall be binding as
conditions of approval.
J.   Post-Decision Actions And Limitations:
   1.   Effective Date Of Approval: Unless otherwise provided in this LUC, a
decision made under this LUC shall be final fifteen (15) days from the date of
the decision unless, prior to the expiration of that period, an appeal has been
filed with the Town.
   2.   Appeals:
      a.   The applicant or an aggrieved party may file a written appeal
regarding a decision made under this LUC, clearly stating the reasons for such
appeal, within fifteen (15) days of the final action.
      b.   An appeal shall stay all proceedings in furtherance of the action
appealed.
      c.   Appeals shall be heard by the Board of Trustees in accordance with
Table E-1.
      d.   Following the close of the appellate public hearing, the Board of
Trustees may affirm, reverse, or modify in whole or in part the decision that
is under review based on a de novo review of the applicable review criteria.
When the Board modifies or reverses a lower body's decision, the Board must set
forth its findings and state its reasons for its action.
      e.   When the Board of Trustees is the final decision-making body or all
appeals have been exhausted pursuant to Table E-1, then local remedies shall be
considered exhausted, and any further appeal shall be made to the district
court having jurisdiction within thirty (30) days of the final decision under
this LUC.
K.   Recording: The Town shall record approved applications with the County
Clerk and Recorder at the expense of the applicant when this LUC or an
application requires recording.
L.   Modifications To Approvals:
   1.   Development authorized by any approval under this article may
incorporate minor changes from the approved plan, permit, or conditions of
approval, as appropriate, without the need for a new application; provided,
that staff determines that the proposed changes:
      a.   Comply with the standards of this LUC;
      b.   Are necessary to meet conditions of approval; and
      c.   Would not significantly alter the function, form, intensity,
character, demand on public facilities, or impact on adjacent properties as
approved with the administrative site/architectural plan.
   2.   Any modification of an approved plan, permit, or condition of approval
that staff determines does not meet the criteria of this section above shall
require a new application that is submitted and reviewed in accordance with the
full procedure and fee requirements applicable to the particular type of the
original application.
M.   Expiration Of Approvals:
   1.   An application approval shall be valid as authorization for the
approved activity unless it expires in accordance with expiration time periods
provided in this LUC or the approval itself.
   2.   A change in ownership of the land shall not affect the established
expiration time period of an approval.
   3.   The original decision-making body may grant extensions of the
expiration time period for up to one year, following a written request that
explains reasonable cause for such extension, prior to the expiration date. The
final approval authority shall determine whether there is reasonable cause for
the requested extension. Further extensions shall be subject to the approval of
the decision-making body for the original petition.
N.   Limitation On Subsequent Similar Applications: Following denial of an
application, the decision-making body shall not decide on applications that are
the same or substantially similar within one year of the previous denial. This
waiting period may be waived by the decision-making body provided that:
   1.   There is a substantial change to circumstances, or new information
available, relevant to the issues or facts considered during the previous
application review; or
   2.   The new application is materially different from the previous
application.
(Ord. 553, 5-20-2025)
10-E-3: DISCONNECTION:
A.   Applicability:
   1.   An application to disconnect land from the Town may be submitted for
land contiguous to the boundaries of the Town upon the owner's written consent.
B.   County Notification: The owner shall provide notice and a copy of the
application to the Jefferson County Board of County Commissioners and to the
board of directors of any affected special district. Any written objection to
the disconnection by Jefferson County or an affected special district shall be
provided in writing to the Board of Trustees prior to the public hearing.
C.   Criteria: Disconnections shall not be subject to the criteria in
subsection 10-E-2I2. The Board of Trustees shall approve a disconnection when
the disconnection:
   1.   Is in the best interests of the Town;
   2.   Will not prejudice the Town or harm its ability to provide Town service
to other areas in Town; and
   3.   Is not objected to by the County.
D.   Effect Of Approval:
   1.   Upon the effective date of the disconnection, any vested property
rights affecting the property shall be expired or relinquished.
   2.   Upon the effective date of the disconnection, the property shall no
longer be subject to the municipal laws of the Town.
   3.   The Town Clerk shall file for recording, two (2) certified copies of
the disconnection ordinance and two (2) copies of the disconnection map with
the Clerk and Recorder of Jefferson County and one certified copy of the
Disconnection Map with the Division of Local Governments of the Department of
Local Affairs.
(Ord. 553, 5-20-2025)
10-E-4: DEVELOPMENT PERMIT PROCEDURES:
A.   Applicability:
   1.   All required development permit approvals shall be obtained prior to
the issuance of a building permit and construction of physical improvements.
   2.   The requirements of this section shall be in addition to those in Table
E-1 and section 10-E-2 including the criteria for approval for all applications
in subsection 10-E-2I2.
B.   Minor Site Plan:
   1.   Applicability: A minor site plan is required for any of the following
activities:
      a.   Construction of accessory structures of less than two hundred (200)
square feet;
      b.   Construction of a sign;
      c.   A change in use that involves or requires site improvements;
      d.   Expansions, alterations, or modifications that increase the gross
floor area of an existing structure by no more than twenty five percent (25%);
and
      e.   The alteration of any vehicular parking area.
   2.   Expiration: Approval of a minor site plan shall be effective for a
maximum of three (3) years unless, upon request by the petitioner, staff grants
an extension due to impacts on the development outside of the applicant's
control, which caused such delay, but not including economic conditions.
C.   Major Site Plan:
   1.   Applicability: A Major Site Plan is required for any development that
exceeds the minor site plan review thresholds in subsection B1 except the
following shall be exempt from the requirement to obtain a site plan:
      a.   Interior tenant alterations or improvements that do not increase
parking requirements or alter exterior building appearances;
      b.   Construction or reconstruction of a deck, fence, or retaining wall;
and
      c.   A change in use that does not involve or require site improvements.
   2.   Expiration: Approval of a major site plan shall be effective for a
maximum of three (3) years unless, upon request by the petitioner, staff grants
an extension due to impacts on the development outside of the applicant's
control, which caused such delay, but not including economic conditions.
D.   Conditional Use Permit:
   1.   Applicability: No use classified as a Conditional Use in Table C-1 may
be conducted without first obtaining a conditional use permit under this
section. No conditional use shall be conducted except in compliance with all
applicable provisions of this Land Use Code and with any conditions upon such
conditional use approval.
   2.   Additional Criteria: In addition to the criteria in subsection I2,
applications for a conditional use permit shall also:
      a.   Be consistent with the purpose and intent of the zoning district in
which it is located;
      b.   Be generally consistent with any related use-specific standards;
      c.   Be compatible with adjacent uses in terms of scale, site design, and
operating characteristics (hours of operation, traffic generation, lighting,
noise, odor, dust, and other external impacts); and
      d.   Provide adequate assurances of continuing maintenance.
   3.   Expiration: A conditional use permit granted pursuant to the provisions
of this section shall run with the land and shall continue to be valid upon a
change of ownership of the site or structure that was the subject of the
conditional use permit application. Any proposed revisions or changes to an
approved conditional use permit application shall be submitted in the same
manner, and subject to the same approval process, as the original review.
E.   Temporary Use Permit:
   1.   Applicability: No use classified as a temporary use in Table C-1 may be
conducted without first obtaining a temporary use permit under this section. No
temporary use shall be conducted except in compliance with all applicable
provisions of this Land Use Code and with any conditions upon such conditional
use approval.
   2.   Expiration:
      a.   A temporary use permit shall be valid beginning on the date
specified on the permit and shall remain valid for the period indicated on the
permit.
      b.   Before the expiration of a temporary use permit, the permittee shall
disconnect all temporary uses and structures, and associated property and
equipment, and free the temporary use site from all trash, litter, and debris
to the satisfaction of staff.
F.   Floodplain Development Permit:
   1.   Applicability: All proposed new development and Substantial
Improvements to existing development in a special flood hazard area as
delineated by the most recent report available from the Federal Emergency
Management Agency (FEMA) and areas removed from the floodplain by the issuance
of a FEMA letter of map revision based on fill (LOMR-F) shall obtain a
floodplain development permit.
   2.   Expiration:
      a.   A temporary use permit shall be valid beginning on the date
specified on the permit and shall remain valid for the period indicated on the
permit.
      b.   Before the expiration of a temporary use permit, the permittee shall
disconnect all temporary uses and structures, and associated property and
equipment, and free the temporary use site from all trash, litter, and debris
to the satisfaction of staff.
(Ord. 553, 5-20-2025)
10-E-5: SUBDIVISION PROCEDURES:
A.   Applicability: A subdivision application shall be required prior to any
vacation or division of land within the Town except the following shall be
exempt:
   1.   Division of land through an estate proceeding; and
   2.   Division of land through a foreclosure of a deed of trust.
B.   Minor Subdivision:
   1.   Applicability: Minor subdivisions shall only be permitted when:
      a.   A plat has previously been approved for the property;
      b.   The proposed subdivision would create two (2) or fewer lots or
creates condominium units within a single plat;
      c.   The proposed subdivision would not require land dedication or
dedication of public improvements; and
      d.   The application is for one of the following:
         (1)   Boundary or lot line adjustments to an approved final plat
including lot line eliminations;
         (2)   Vacations that do not include improved streets;
         (3)   Condominiumization of units within an existing building;
         (4)   A minor change to an approved plat to address engineering or
technical constraints with no material effect on the plat and no relocations of
streets or rights-of-way; or
         (5)   Correction of a technical error on an approved final plat.
   2.   Plat Submittal: Minor subdivisions shall require the submittal and
approval of a final plat, replat, condominium plat, or amendment to an existing
final plat as applicable. All plats approved as a minor subdivision shall be
recorded.
   3.   Additional Criteria:
      a.   In addition to the criteria in subsection 10-E-2I2, applications for
a minor subdivision shall also:
         (1)   Demonstrate that the layout of lots, streets, driveways,
utilities, drainage facilities, and other services within the proposed
subdivision meets the Town's standards, minimizes the amount of land
disturbance, maximizes the amount of open space in the development, preserves
existing trees, vegetation and riparian areas, protects critical wildlife
habitat, and otherwise accomplishes the purposes and intent of this Code;
         (2)   Not result in the creation of lots that cannot be built under
this Chapter;
         (3)   Not affect a recorded easement without approval from the
easement holder;
         (4)   Provide all required in-lieu fees; and
         (5)   Not limit the Town’s ability to effectively provide facilities
or services to all lots involved.
      b.   In addition to the criteria above, when a minor subdivision involves
a vacation, the application shall also demonstrate that:
         (1)   The Town has no current or future use for the land;
         (2)   No roadway proposed to be vacated would leave any adjoining land
without a means of access to another public road; and
         (3)   It does not involve lots that have been sold or transferred; or,
if there have been sales or transfers, no development on any lots in the
subdivision and all the owners agree to the vacation of the plat.
C.   Major Subdivision:
   1.   Applicability: A major subdivision is required for all land divisions
that are not eligible for a minor subdivision.
   2.   Preliminary Plat:
      a.   A preliminary plat shall be required for all major subdivisions that
shows the overall character, proposed layout of land, and provisions of
facilities.
      b.   Additional Criteria:
         (1)   In addition to the criteria in subsection 10-E-2I3, applications
for a preliminary plat shall also:
            (A)   Provide lots, roads, driveways, utilities, drainage
facilities, and other services that are designed to minimize the amount of land
disturbance, maximize connectivity, maximize the amount of open space, and
preserve sensitive areas;
            (B)   Provide adequate mitigation to areas in natural hazard areas
and that proposed uses of these areas are compatible with such conditions;
            (C)   Show location of public water and sewer system connections;
            (D)   Provide a clear assumption of responsibility for maintaining
roads, open spaces, and other public and common facilities in the subdivision;
and
            (E)   If proposed in phases, the plat proposes reasonable phasing
for providing required infrastructure.
         (2)   In addition to the criteria above, when a subdivision involves a
vacation, the application shall also demonstrate that:
            (A)   The Town has no current or future use for the land;
            (B)   No roadway proposed to be vacated would leave any adjoining
land without a means of access to another public road; and
            (C)   A subdivision plat does not involve lots that have been sold
or transferred; or, if there have been sales or transfers, no development on
any lots in the subdivision and all the owners agree to the vacation of the
plat.
   3.   Final Plat:
      a.   Following approval of a preliminary plat, a final plat shall be
required for all major subdivisions that reflects any changes required at the
preliminary plat stage and demonstrates conformance with the requirements of
this Code.
      b.   Additional Criteria: In addition to the criteria in subsection C2,
applications for a final plat shall also demonstrate compliance with the
approved preliminary plat including any conditions of approval.
(Ord. 553, 5-20-2025)
10-E-6: ORDINANCE AMENDMENT PROCEDURES:
A.   Initial Zoning:
   1.   Applicability: Initial zoning is required with all petitions for
annexations into the Town in accordance with the Municipal Annexation Act of
1965, as amended, CRS § 31-12-101 et seq.
   2.   Additional Criteria: In addition to the criteria in subsection 10-E-
2I2, applications for an initial zoning shall also:
      a.   Be consistent with the purposes of the underlying zoning district
where the development is proposed;
      b.   Ensure that future uses on the subject property will be compatible
in scale with uses on other properties in the vicinity of the subject property;
and
      c.   Be consistent with the Town's economic development goals and
objectives to bring positive growth and sustainable revenues to the Town.
B.   Rezoning:
   1.   Applicability: A rezoning is required for all proposals requesting to
change the zoning district classification of a parcel of real property to a
different zoning district classification.
   2.   Map Revision: Following approval of a rezoning, the Official Zoning Map
shall be revised to show the updated zoning district.
   3.   Additional Criteria: In addition to the criteria in subsection 10-E-
2I2, applications for a rezoning shall also:
      a.   Be consistent with the purposes of the underlying zoning district
where the development is proposed;
      b.   Ensure that future uses on the subject property will be compatible
in scale with uses on other properties in the vicinity of the subject property;
and
      c.   Be consistent with the Town's economic development goals and
objectives to bring positive growth and sustainable revenues to the Town.
C.   Rezoning To Planned Development (PD):
   1.   Applicability:
      a.   The PD procedure shall not be used when a conditional use, variance,
or rezoning to a base zoning district could achieve a similar result.
      b.   An application to rezone to PD may be submitted for any tract of
land, or contiguous parcels of land, within any combination of zoning
districts, held under single ownership or under unified control.
      c.   The PD shall be overlaid on the existing base district(s).
   2.   PD Plan Required: A Planned Development Plan shall be required with all
applications to PD that includes any zoning standards that are not consistent
with this LUC.
   3.   Effect Of Approval: The regulations of this LUC shall remain applicable
to areas within a PD district unless expressly modified by the approved PD.
   4.   Expiration: A PD shall remain valid until a PD is subsequently amended
or rezoned to another zoning district.
   5.   Map Revision: Following approval of a rezoning to PD, the Official
Zoning Map shall be revised to show the PD overlay.
   6.   Recording: The PD plan and zoning amendment shall be recorded.
   7.   Additional Criteria: In addition to the criteria in subsection 10-E-
2I2, applications for a rezoning to PD shall also:
      a.   Address a unique situation, provide substantial benefits to the
Town, or incorporate innovative design that achieves a higher quality standard
than could otherwise be achieved through strict application of a base zoning
district; and
      b.   Meets all applicable standards of this Code not expressly modified
by the PD.
   8.   Minor Amendments:
      a.   Minor amendments to an approved PD plan may be approved by staff if
the proposed amendments do not:
         (1)   Change the ratio of residential units to square feet of non-
residential building square footage by more than ten percent (10%).
         (2)   Increase the number of residential units by more than ten
percent (10%).
         (3)   Increase the gross square footage of non-residential building
area by more than ten percent (10%).
         (4)   Change the allowed uses listed in the approved PD plan.
         (5)   Change the number or location of vehicular access points in such
a way that negatively impacts public safety or the flow of traffic into public
streets.
      b.   Any amendment that is not considered minor shall require the same
approval process as the creation of the PD.
D.   Land Use Code Text Amendment:
   1.   Applicability: A LUC text amendment to any provision in this LUC may be
initiated by staff or the Board of Trustees.
   2.   Additional Criteria: In addition to the criteria in subsection 10-E-
2I2, applications for a Land Use Code text amendment shall also:
      a.   Be compatible with current conditions and the character of current
structures and uses in each zoning district;
      b.   Promote the most desirable use of land in each zoning district;
      c.   Promote the conservation of sensitive environmental features; and
      d.   Support responsible development and growth.
      e.   Comprehensive Plan Amendment:
         (1)   Applicability: A comprehensive plan adoption or amendment may be
initiated by Staff or the Board of Trustees.
         (2)   Additional Criteria: In addition to the criteria in subsection
10-E-2I2, applications for a comprehensive plan adoption or amendment shall
also promote the long term economic, social, and environmental health of the
Town and protects the public health, safety, and welfare of the citizens of
Morrison.
(Ord. 553, 5-20-2025)
10-E-7: FLEXIBILITY AND RELIEF PROCEDURES:
A.   Variance:
   1.   Purpose: The variance procedure provides a mechanism to authorize
variances from the development standards of this Land Use Code when it is
demonstrated that such a variance will not be contrary to the public interest
or the spirit of this Land Use Code and where, owing to special conditions,
literal enforcement of this Land Use Code will result in practical difficulties
or unnecessary hardship.
   2.   Applicability: The variance procedure is required for applications
seeking flexibility of a development standard, other than as provided in the
minor modification process, from the development standards applicable to the
zoning district in which the subject property is located. Applications that are
denied a minor modification shall not be eligible for a variance.
   3.   Additional Criteria: In addition to the criteria in subsection 10-E-
2I2, applications for a variance shall also demonstrate that:
      a.   The variance is necessary because literal enforcement of the
provisions of this LUC will result in an unnecessary and unreasonable hardship
to the applicant caused by a unique site condition that is not generally
applicable to other lots in the surrounding area;
      b.   The grant of the variance will not injure the appropriate use of, or
the supply of light and air to, adjacent conforming property within the same
zone district; and
      c.   The effect of granting the variance is to allow the applicant
development potential similar to, but not greater than, other lots in the same
zone district in the surrounding areas.
B.   Minor Modification:
   1.   Purpose: The minor modification procedure is intended to allow
relatively small adjustments or deviations from the dimensional or numeric
standards of Table D-1 where strict application would result in practical
difficulty or undue hardship preventing the use of the land as otherwise
allowed by the Land Use Code. Minor modifications are intended to provide
greater flexibility when necessary, without requiring a formal zoning amendment
or variance.
   2.   Applicability:
      a.   A deviation from the requirements in Table D-1 may be proposed as a
minor modification.
      b.   Minor modification deviations may not exceed a ten percent (10%)
variation of the applicable requirements.
   3.   Additional Criteria: In addition to the criteria in subsection 10-E-
2I2, applications for a minor modification shall also:
      a.   Not create a hardship or adverse impacts on adjacent properties
unless adequately mitigated;
      b.   Not be necessitated by the petitioner’s actions; and
      c.   Be of a technical nature and required to compensate for an unusual
site condition or to protect a sensitive resource, natural feature, or
community asset.
(Ord. 553, 5-20-2025)
10-E-8: VESTED RIGHTS:
A.   Purpose: The purpose of this section is to provide the procedure for
approval of a vested property right.
B.   Applicability:
   1.   Vested rights may only be approved with the approval of a site-
specific development plan.
   2.   Applicants must request vesting in writing as a part of the site
specific development plan application.
   3.   A vested right shall attach to and run with the applicable property. It
shall confer upon the landowner the right to undertake and complete the
development and use of the property under the terms and conditions of the site-
specific development plan.
C.   Approval:
   1.   The Board of Trustees may approve vested rights as a part of an
approval for a site-specific development plan and upon such terms and
conditions as may reasonably be necessary to protect the public health, safety,
and welfare.
   2.   Failure to abide by such terms and conditions in a site-specific
development plan approval shall result in forfeiture of the vested rights.
D.   Notice:
   1.   Not later than fourteen (14) days following approval of a site-specific
development plan, the applicant shall publish a notice in a newspaper of
general circulation in the Town.
   2.   Notice shall include the name of the plan, address of the project, and
date of approval by the Board of Trustees.
E.   Vesting Period And Expiration:
   1.   Vested rights shall remain vested for three years or until such time as
the site-specific development plan is either superseded or rescinded, whichever
occurs first, unless otherwise approved by the Board of Trustees, but in no
case shall the vesting period be longer than twenty (20) years.
   2.   Amendments to site-specific development plans shall not affect vested
rights unless expressly stated otherwise in the amendment.
F.   General Ordinances And Regulations: The establishment of a vested property
right shall not preclude the application of ordinances or regulations that are
general in nature and are applicable to all property. Such ordinances and
regulations include but are not limited to building, fire, plumbing,
electrical, energy, mechanical and other health and safety codes.
(Ord. 553, 5-20-2025)
10-E-9: NONCONFORMITIES:
A.   Purpose: The purpose of this section is to regulate and limit the
development and continued existence of uses, structures, lots, signs, and site
features that were lawfully established prior to the effective date of this
Land Use Code, but that no longer conform to the requirements of this Land Use
Code. All such situations are collectively referred to as "nonconformities."
B.   Requirements:
   1.   Authority To Continue:
      a.   Nonconformities may continue to be used and occupied, subject the
maintenance regulations in this section, or unless such nonconformity is
terminated as provided in this section.
      b.   Nonconformities shall not be modified in any way that increases the
degree of nonconformity.
      c.   Nonconformities shall not be reestablished once terminated unless
express permitted by this section.
   2.   Determination Of Legal Nonconformity Status: The burden of establishing
the existence of a legal nonconformity shall be solely on the owner of the
property containing the nonconformity.
   3.   Maintenance: Maintenance of nonconformities is permitted and encouraged
provided that the maintenance does not increase the degree of the
nonconformity. Maintenance includes the following:
      a.   Repairs necessary to maintain and to correct any damage or
deterioration to the structural soundness of, or the exterior or interior
appearance of, a building or structure without expanding the height or
footprint of the building or structure, unless compliant with this Land Use
Code;
      b.   Maintenance of land to protect against and mitigate health and
environmental hazards;
      c.   Repairs that are required to remedy unsafe conditions; and
      d.   Repairs necessary to comply with current Land Use Code or Building
Code requirements.
C.   Nonconforming Structures:
   1.   A nonconforming structure that has been damaged or destroyed by fire or
other causes may be restored to its original condition; provided that such work
is commenced within one year of such event and has been completed or diligently
pursued within eighteen (18) months of such event.
   2.   Structures deemed nonconforming because of building design standards in
section 10-D-12 shall be permitted to be maintained, modified, and altered
without regard to compliance with this section.
D.   Nonconforming Lots: A nonconforming lot that was made nonconforming by
virtue of enactment of this Land Use Code may be used for construction of a
building allowed in the applicable zoning district provided that all other
zoning district and dimensional standards are met.
E.   Nonconforming Parking: Any parking spaces or access to public rights-of-
way lawfully existing on the effective date of this Land Use Code that are made
nonconforming by virtue of enactment of this Land Use Code shall be allowed to
continue provided that any change or expansion of any use or structure shall
only be permitted if the additional number of parking spaces required by such
change or expansion is provided in accordance with this Land Use Code.
F.   Nonconforming Uses:
   1.   A nonconforming use may be extended throughout the same building or
structure provided that:
      a.   No structural alteration of the building (or portion of such
building containing the nonconforming use in the case of buildings with
multiple uses) shall be permitted;
      b.   No additional dwelling units shall be permitted in the building; and
      c.   No additional nonresidential units and/or uses shall be permitted.
   2.   Whenever a nonconforming use is discontinued for a period of six (6)
months, the legal nonconforming status of the use shall expire and any future
use shall comply with this LUC. Staff may grant an extension if improvements
that are necessary for the continuation of the nonconforming use are diligently
pursued.
G.   Illegal Nonconformities:
   1.   An illegal nonconformity exists when:
      a.   A nonconformity is destroyed or substantially destroyed or neglected
by an intentional act of the owner or an agent without a proper permit. If this
occurs, the nonconformity shall lose its nonconforming status and thereafter
shall be required to be in conformity with this LUC.
      b.   A use, structure, or site improvement occurs to a nonconformity
without being lawfully authorized in accordance with this section. Such use or
structure shall therefore cease all operations until such time that the
required plans and permits are approved.
   2.   If a nonconforming use was in a destroyed or substantially destroyed
structure, the nonconforming use and all site improvements shall lose their
nonconforming status and be required to come into compliance with this LUC.
(Ord. 553, 5-20-2025)
10-E-10: VIOLATIONS, ENFORCEMENT, AND PENALTIES:
A.   Violations: Each of the following activities is a violation of this Land
Use Code:
   1.   Any erection, construction, reconstruction, remodeling, alteration,
maintenance, expansion, movement, or use of any building, structure, or sign,
or development or subdivision of any land, in contravention of any provision of
this Land Use Code or any regulation promulgated under this Land Use Code.
   2.   Any development, use, construction, remodeling, or other activity in
any way generally inconsistent with the terms or conditions of any permit or
approval required to engage in such activity, whether issued under or required
by this Land Use Code.
   3.   Each day that a violation occurs or remains uncorrected shall
constitute a separate and distinct violation of this Land Use Code.
B.   Remedies:
   1.   Staff may deny or withhold all entitlements, including forms of
authorization to use or develop any land, structure, or improvement, until an
alleged violation, associated civil penalty or lien resulting from a previous
final order related to such property, use, or development is corrected. This
provision shall apply whether the current owner or applicant for the permit or
other approval is responsible for the violation.
   2.   Whenever any building, structure or site or part thereof is being
demolished, constructed, reconstructed, altered, or repaired in violation of
this Land Use Code or in a manner that endangers life or property, staff is
authorized to issue a stop-work order for the specific part of the work that is
in violation or presents the hazard.
   3.   With or without revoking permits, staff may issue an order to stop work
on any property on which there is an uncorrected violation of either a
provision of this Land Use Code or a provision of an entitlement or other form
of authorization issued under this Land Use Code.
   4.   The stop-work order shall be in writing and posted at the site of the
work and shall specify the alleged violations. After any such order has been
posted, no work shall proceed on any building, other structure, or tract of
land covered by such order, except to correct such violation or comply with the
order.
C.   Penalties:
   1.   Violation of this Land Use Code shall be punishable in accordance with
Section
1-4-1 of the Morrison Municipal Code.
   2.   The Town may seek injunctive relief or other appropriate relief in
district court or other court of competent jurisdiction against any person who
fails to comply with any provision of this Land Use Code or any requirement or
condition imposed pursuant to this Land Use Code.
   3.   In any court proceedings in which the Town seeks a preliminary
injunction, it shall be presumed that a violation of this Land Use Code is a
real, immediate, and irreparable injury to the public; that the public will be
irreparably injured by the continuation of the violation unless the violation
is enjoined; and that there is no plain and adequate remedy at law for the
subject Land Use Code violation.
D.   Abatement: The Town may abate any violation of this Land Use Code as
follows:
   1.   Before action is taken to abate a violation, a final warning notice
shall be posted on the property and served personally or by first class United
States mail to the owner of record of the property.
   2.   Unless this notice is appealed to the Board of Trustees within ten (10)
days of the posting of the final warning, the Town shall proceed to abate the
violation.
   3.   The Town shall keep an account of the cost, including incidental
expenses, incurred by the Town in the abatement of any violation. The Town
shall forward a bill for collection to the violator and owner of record of the
property specifying the nature and costs of the work performed. For purposes of
this section, the term "incidental expenses" shall include without limitation
the actual expenses and costs to the Town in the preparation of the notices,
specifications and contracts, work inspection, and interest from the date of
completion at the rate prescribed by law for delinquent real property taxes.
   4.   The responsibility for payment of the charges for abatement as set
forth in this section shall rest solely upon the owner of the property upon
which the abatement occurred. When charges for abatement remain unpaid after
thirty (30) days from billing, the Town shall record a first and prior lien
against the property, to be collected by the County Treasurer in the same
manner as property taxes.
E.   Cumulative Remedies: The remedies provided for violations of this Land Use
Code, whether civil or criminal, shall be cumulative and in addition to any
other remedy provided by law, and may be exercised in any order. The exercise
of one remedy shall not preclude the exercise of any other available remedy.
(Ord. 553, 5-20-2025)
ARTICLE F. DEFINITIONS
SECTION:
10-F-1: Rules Of Construction
10-F-2: Rules Of Measurement
10-F-3: Definitions
10-F-1: RULES OF CONSTRUCTION:
All words and terms used in this Land Use Code have their commonly accepted
dictionary meaning unless they are specifically defined in this Land Use Code
or the context in which they are used clearly indicates to the contrary. The
following rules of construction apply:
   A.   All words used in the present tense include the future tense.
   B.   All words used in the singular number include the plural, and words in
the plural number include the singular.
   C.   The word "shall" is mandatory, and not discretionary, and the word
"may" is permissive.
   D.   The word "building" shall include the word "structure."
   E.   The phrase "used for" includes the phrases "arranged for," "designed
for," "intended for," "maintained for," and "occupied for."
   F.   The words "land," "property", "parcel," "premises," and "tract" are all
interchangeable unless the context clearly indicates to the contrary.
   G.   The word "individual" includes a "firm," "association," "organization,"
"partnership," "trust," "company," or "corporation" as well as a single
individual.
(Ord. 553, 5-20-2025)
10-F-2: RULES OF MEASUREMENT:
   A.   Rounding Of Numerical Requirements: Any numerical calculation resulting
in a fraction shall be rounded up to the next whole number.
   B.   Setbacks: Setbacks shall be measured in linear feet, measured on a
horizontal plane, between the wall of a building and each of its lot lines at a
given height.
   C.   Height: Height shall be measured as the vertical distance above grade
along the building front measured to the highest point of the coping of a flat
roof, or to the deck line of a mansard roof, or to the average height between
the eave and ridge of a gable, hip, or gambrel roof. Maximum height establishes
the maximum height in feet above grade, allowed for structures within a given
zoning district.
   D.   Computation Of Time: For purposes of calculating required public notice
periods or time periods related to the filing or processing of applications
under the LUC, unless this LUC specifically states that the measurement is
based on "calendar days", shall be computed to exclude the first and include
the last day of the prescribed or fixed period or duration of time. When the
last day of a period falls on a Saturday, Sunday, or State-recognized holiday,
that day shall be omitted from the computation.
   E.   Separation Distances: Where this LUC requires separation between uses,
such distance will be measured from the nearest property line of the existing
use to the nearest property line of the proposed use.
   F.   Area Measurements: All square-footage-based requirements shall be
computed based on gross floor area of the subject use. Structured parking
within a building shall not be counted in such computation.
(Ord. 553, 5-20-2025)
10-F-3: DEFINITIONS:
ACCESS: A way or means of approach to provide physical vehicular entrance to a
property.
ACCESSORY BUILDING, STRUCTURE, OR USE: A building, structure, or use located or
conducted upon the same lot (or on a contiguous lot in the same ownership) as
the primary building, structure or use to which it is related, that is clearly
incidental to, and customarily found in connection with, such primary building
or use and is operated and maintained for the benefit or convenience of the
owners, occupants, employees, customers or visitors of the lot. Multiple
accessory structures and uses may be permitted on a single lot in accordance
with Table C-1.
ACCESSORY DWELLING UNIT: A subordinate dwelling unit attached or detached from
a primary structure and located on the same lot or parcel, that provides basic
requirements for living, sleeping, cooking, and sanitation. A manufactured home
or recreational vehicle, travel trailer, camper, or similar vehicle shall not
be used as an accessory dwelling unit. Only one accessory dwelling unit shall
be permitted per lot.
ADULT ENTERTAINMENT: Adult bookstores, adult motion pictures theaters, adult
mini-motion picture theaters, adult massage parlors, adult saunas, adult
companionship establishments, adult health clubs, adult cabarets, adult novelty
businesses, adult motion picture arcades, adult modeling studios, adult hotels
or motels, adult body painting studios, and other adult establishments.
AGRICULTURE PRODUCTION: The cultivation of agricultural or horticultural crops,
composting, aquaponics, aquaculture, hydroponics, the keeping of livestock and/
or poultry, or a combination of these activities.
ANIMAL SHELTER: A facility that is operated for the purpose of providing for
and promoting the welfare, protection, and humane treatment of animals, that is
used to shelter at least ten (10) animals in a year, and that is operated by a
government entity, humane society, animal welfare society, animal rescue group,
or other nonprofit group. This use includes rescue horse facilities, regardless
of the number of horses sheltered in a year.
AREA OF SHALLOW FLOODING: A designated zone AO or AH on a community's flood
insurance rate map (FIRM) with a one percent (1%) chance or greater annual
chance of flooding to an average depth of one to three feet where a clearly
defined channel does not exist, where the path of flooding is unpredictable and
where velocity flow may be evident. Such flooding is characterized by ponding
or sheet flow.
ART GALLERY, MUSEUM, AND LIBRARY: A facility or area that is open to the public
and is intended for the acquisition, preservation, study, and exhibition of
works of artistic, historical, or scientific value.
AUTOMOTIVE CENTER AND SERVICES: An establishment that is engaged in both the
retail sales of a limited or full range of vehicle parts and fuels and the
repair and maintenance of automobiles and light trucks. Self service,
automated, or full service car washes as a primary or accessory use are
included in this.
BAR, BREWERY, OR DISTILLERY: An establishment primarily engaged in the selling
of drinks for consumption on the premises, where entertainment and the
incidental sale of prepared food for consumption on the premises are permitted
accessory uses. These establishments may charge a fee or admission charge for
the entertainment provided. Included in this category are bars, beer gardens,
discotheques, taverns, dance halls, wineries, and distilleries.
BARNS, SHEDS, AND OUTBUILDINGS: An accessory structure designed and constructed
to primarily supplement agricultural operations. The structure shall not be a
place of human habitation or a place of employment where products are
processed, treated or packaged; nor shall it be a place used by the public.
BED AND BREAKFAST: The commercial rental of bedrooms within a private
residence, providing temporary accommodations, a full-time on-site resident
manager, and typically including a morning meal to overnight guests. This use
shall not include hotels, motels, or short-term rentals.
BOARD OF TRUSTEES: The Board of Trustees of the Town of Morrison, Colorado,
which shall act as the Board of Adjustment when State Law requires an appeal
process not specifically listed herein.
BUILDING: Any structure used or intended for supporting or sheltering any
occupancy where roofed structures are separated from each other by party walls
having no openings for passage, each portion so separated shall be deemed a
separate building.
BUILDING, PRIMARY: A building in which is conducted, or that is intended to be
conducted, the primary use of the lot on which it is located. Only one primary
building shall exist per lot.
BUSINESS OR PERSONAL SERVICE: An establishment primarily engaged in providing
services involving the care of a person or their apparel or rendering services
to business establishments on a fee or contract basis, such as barber shops,
clothing sales, photographic studios, cleaning and garment services (but not
including power laundries or dry cleaning plants), advertising and mailing,
building maintenance, office equipment rental and leasing, photo finishing,
business supply services, computer programming/data processing services,
locksmiths, and repair of business or household goods and equipment generally
weighing less than twenty five (25) pounds.
CEMETERY OR INTERMENT FACILITY: Land used or intended to be used for the burial
of the dead including columbariums, crematoriums, mausoleums, funeral homes,
and mortuaries when operated in conjunction with and within the boundaries of
such premises.
COMMUNITY CENTER: A building or portion of a building used for nonprofit,
cultural, educational, recreational, religious, or social activities that are
open to the public or a designated part of the public, usually owned and
operated by a public or nonprofit group or agency.
COMMUNITY GARDEN: The cultivation of food and/or horticultural crops,
composting, aquaponics, aquaculture and/or hydroponics including but not
limited to gardens, container gardens, edible landscapes, herb gardens, rooftop
gardens, berry patches, vegetable gardens. All of which may include the
production and sale of food products from food grown on the premises. Community
Garden may be divided into separate plots for cultivation by one or more
individuals or may be farmed collectively by members of the group and may
include common areas maintained and used by group members.
COMMERCIAL WIRELESS TELE- COMMUNICATIONS SERVICE: A facility that transmits
and/or receives signals or waves radiated or captured by a wireless
telecommunications antenna. It may include: antennas of all kinds including
microwave dishes, horns, and other types of equipment for the transmission or
reception of such signals, telecommunications tower or similar structures
supporting said equipment, equipment buildings or cabinets, parking area, and/
or other accessory development in order to provide telecommunication services
including cellular, personal communication services (PCS), specialized
mobilized radio (SMR), enhanced specialized mobilized radio (ESMR), paging and
similar services that are marketed to the general public. Non-commercial or
broadcasting antennas are not considered to be wireless telecommunications
utilities.
CONDITIONAL USE: A use that is permitted only after the petitioner obtains
conditional use approval pursuant to subsection 10-E-4C, and subject to any
use-specific standards.
CURB CUT: The alteration, typically by lowering, of a curb, sidewalk, or
boulevard to provide vehicular access to a parcel.
DAY CARE FACILITY: A licensed private or public establishment that for gain or
otherwise, regularly provides one or more dependents with care, training,
supervision, rehabilitation, or developmental guidance on a regular basis, for
periods of less than twenty four (24) hours a day, in a place other than the
dependent's home.
DEDICATION: The transfer of property interests from private to public ownership
for a public purpose.
DEVELOPMENT: Any man-made change to improved or unimproved real estate,
including a change in use or the creation of a subdivision.
DRIVE-THROUGH FACILITY: An accessory use that by design, physical facilities,
service, or by packaging procedures encourages or permits customers to receive
services or obtain goods while remaining in their motor vehicles.
DWELLING, DUPLEX: A single building on a single lot containing two (2) dwelling
units separated from each other by a firewall and having separate direct means
of egress and ingress to each unit from the outside.
DWELLING, MULTIFAMILY: A building containing four (4) or more dwelling units on
a single lot, including but not limited to apartments, cooperative apartments,
and condominiums. Regardless of how rental units are equipped, any multifamily
dwelling in which units are available for rental periods of thirty (30) days or
less at a time shall be considered a hotel, motel, or short-term rental as
applicable.
DWELLING UNIT: A single unit providing complete, independent living facilities,
including permanent provisions for living, sleeping, eating, cooking, and
sanitation.
DWELLING, SINGLE FAMILY DETACHED: A detached building, whether stick-built or
manufactured, containing one dwelling unit located on a single lot.
DWELLING, TRIPLEX: A single building on a single lot containing three (3)
primary dwellings separated from each other by a firewall and having separate
direct means of egress and ingress to each unit from the outside.
EASEMENT: A grant of one or more of the property rights by the property owner
to and for use by the public, a corporation, or another individual or entity.
ELECTRIC VEHICLE CHARGING STATION: A facility or area where electric-powered or
hybrid-powered motor vehicles can obtain electrical current to recharge
batteries and that is accessory to a primary use of the property.
EQUESTRIAN OPERATION: A facility or place used for horse boarding (including
equestrian pasture boarding) and/or equestrian activities for a fee, and/or for
an exchange of goods or services. Uses specifically excluded from equestrian
operations are horse rescue and horse breeding farms.
EXTERIOR LIGHTING: All exterior luminaires.
FAÇADE: The exterior walls of a building exposed to public view from a public
street. The wall visible from a public street or parking lot and used for the
main public access or that has distinguishing architectural features will be
considered the primary façade. A wall that is visible from a public street or
parking lot serving a use but not the main access to the building is considered
the secondary façade.
FAST FOOD RESTAURANT: An establishment whose primary business is the sale of
food and/or beverages in a ready to consume state for consumption within the
restaurant building, within a motor vehicle parked on the premises, or off the
premises as a carry out order, and whose principal method of operation involves
serving food and/or beverages in containers.
FENCE: Any structure, wall, or barrier, other than a building, erected at grade
for the purpose of defining boundaries of property, separating open space,
restricting ingress to or egress from property, providing security or
protection to property or acting as a visual or acoustic screen.
FLOODPLAIN: That area within a Special Flood Hazard Area as delineated by the
most recent report available from the Federal Emergency Management Agency.
FLOODPLAIN GRADE: The elevation of the regulatory flood plus two feet (2') at
any given location in the Special Flood Hazard Area.
FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (FIRM): An official map of a community, on which the
federal emergency management agency has delineated both the special flood
hazard areas and the risk premium zones applicable to the community.
FLOODWAY: The channel of a river or other watercourse and adjacent land areas
that must be reserved in order to discharge the base flood without cumulatively
increasing the water surface elevation more than a designated height. The
Colorado statewide standard for the designated height to be used for all newly
studied reaches shall be one-half foot (1/2') (six inches (6")). Letters of map
revision to existing floodway delineations may continue to use the floodway
criteria in place at the time of the existing floodway delineation.
FOOD TRUCK: A retail food establishment that is not intended to be permanent
and is a motorized vehicle or a trailer that is licensed for use on public
roadways, designed and equipped to serve food and beverages.
FUELING STATION: A facility where fuels like diesel, gasoline, ethanol, natural
gas, electricity, and hydrogen; related supplies for motorists; and convenience
foods and goods are sold. All services included in automotive center and
services are excluded.
GARAGE: A detached accessory building or a portion of a primary building used
for the parking and storage of vehicles, merchandise, or equipment, and that is
not a separate commercial establishment open to the general public. When
associated with a residential use in a residential district, it shall be
limited to use for parking and storage of vehicles, noncommercial trailers, and
household equipment. A garage shall be a permitted accessory use for all
residential uses.
GARAGE SALE: The sale of used household belongings at a residential dwelling or
residential neighborhood including but not limited to "home sale," "estate
sale," "attic sale," and "basement sale" and any other type of residential sale
of tangible personal property.
GOVERNMENTAL STORAGE: A temporary use for the storage of governmental materials
and equipment on government property.
GREENHOUSE: A building whose roof and sides are made largely of glass or other
transparent or translucent material and in which the temperature and humidity
can be regulated for the cultivation of delicate or out-of-season plants for
subsequent sale, for personal enjoyment, or for the temporary storage or
display of plant material.
GEOTHERMAL ENERGY SYSTEM: Land area and equipment for the conversion of natural
geothermal energy into energy for beneficial use.
GROUP HOME, SMALL: A residential dwelling or facility where eight (8) or fewer
persons, including staff, live as a single housekeeping unit providing care,
supervision, and treatment for the exclusive use of citizens protected by the
provisions of the federal Fair Housing Act Amendments of 1988, as defined in
that Act and as interpreted by the courts, or by any similar legislation of the
State, including but not limited to facilities providing housing for people
with disabilities.
GROUP HOME, LARGE: A residential dwelling or facility where more than eight (8)
persons, including staff, live as a single housekeeping unit providing care,
supervision, and treatment for the exclusive use of citizens protected by the
provisions of the federal Fair Housing Act Amendments of 1988, as defined in
that Act and interpreted by the courts, or by any similar legislation of the
State, including but not limited to facilities providing housing for people
with disabilities.
GROUND-MOUNTED MECHANICAL EQUIPMENT: Any mechanical equipment that is affixed
to the ground including subpanels, air conditioners, heating, cooling and
ventilating equipment, kitchen hoods and vents, swimming pool equipment, pumps
and heaters, and propane tanks.
HEIGHT (OF A BUILDING): The vertical distance above grade along the building
front measured to the highest point of the coping of a flat roof, or to the
deck line of a mansard roof, or to the average height between the eave and
ridge of a gable, hip, or gambrel roof. Maximum height establishes the maximum
height in feet above grade, allowed for structures within a given zoning
district.
HIGHEST ADJACENT GRADE: The highest natural elevation of the ground surface
prior to construction next to the proposed walls of a structure.
HOME OCCUPATION: Any gainful occupation or profession engaged in by the
occupant of a dwelling unit at or from the dwelling unit.
HOTEL: A building or series of buildings operated as an establishment providing
accommodations in habitable units by prior arrangements, for compensation, for
periods of thirty (30) days at a time or less where access into each hotel unit
is from the interior of the building. This use may provide ancillary uses such
as conference and meeting rooms, restaurants, bars, gift shops, and
recreational facilities. A hotel shall not include a motel, bed and breakfast,
or short-term rental.
INDOOR ENTERTAINMENT OR RECREATION: A commercial recreation facility that
provides completely enclosed or indoor entertainment or recreation space, such
as racquet clubs, indoor skating rinks or swimming pools, bowling alleys,
billiard, pool, or bingo parlors, amusement arcades, indoor live or motion
picture theaters, and fitness centers or gymnasiums, and where food or
beverages may be served as an accessory use, but does not include any use
meeting the definition of adult entertainment.
IMPERVIOUS SURFACE: Any surface artificially covered or hardened to prevent or
impede the percolation or absorption of water into the ground, including but
not limited to asphalt, concrete, roofing material, brick, plastic, gravel, or
swimming pools.
LANDSCAPING: Any combination of living plants such as trees, shrubs, plants,
vegetative ground cover, or turf grasses, and may include structural features
such as walkways, fences, benches, works of art, reflective pools, fountains or
the like. Landscaping shall also include irrigation systems, mulches, topsoil
use, soil preparation, revegetation or the preservation, protection and
replacement of existing trees.
LETTER OF MAP REVISION (LOMR): FEMA's official revision of an effective flood
insurance rate map (FIRM), or flood boundary and floodway map (FBFM), or both.
LOMRs are generally based on the implementation of physical measures that
affect the hydrologic or hydraulic characteristics of a flooding source and
thus result in the modification of the existing regulatory floodway, the
effective base flood elevations (BFEs), or the special flood hazard area
(SFHA).
LETTER OF MAP REVISION BASED ON FILL (LOMR-F): FEMA's modification of the
special flood hazard area (SFHA) shown on the flood insurance rate map (FIRM)
based on the placement of fill outside the existing regulatory floodway.
LOT: The smallest unit of land division defined by plat or by metes and bounds
description, that is not divided by a lot line, right-of-way, or other publicly
owned land.
LOT AREA: The area contained within the lot lines of a lot, excluding any
right-of-way or private street.
LOT LINE: A line of record bounding a lot that divides one lot from another lot
or from a public or private street or any other public space. Where any portion
of a lot extends onto a public right-of-way, the lot line shall be deemed to be
the boundary of said right-of-way.
LOT WIDTH: A horizontal distance measured between the side lot lines.
LOT LINE, FRONT: A lot line separating a lot from the predominant public or
private street or roadway right-of-way abutting the property, as determined by
the Town.
LOT LINE, REAR: On a rectangular lot other than a corner lot, the lot line
opposite and most distant from the front lot line; on a corner lot, an interior
lot line that is designated at the time of development. Triangular shaped lots
whose lot width narrows when moving away from the front lot line have no rear
lot line. The rear lot line(s) on irregular shaped lots with more than four (4)
lot lines are those interior lot lines that, when the endpoints of the line(s)
are connected, create a line exceeding the width at the building line.
LOT LINE, SIDE: Any lot line other than a front or rear lot line.
LOT OF RECORD: Any validly recorded lot that, at the time of its recording,
complied with all applicable laws, ordinances, and regulations.
LOT SIZE: The minimum size lot, in square feet, for certain types of
residential development, measured on a horizontal plane.
LOWEST FLOOR: The lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area (including
basement). Any floor used for living purposes which includes working, storage,
sleeping, cooking and eating, or recreation or any combination thereof. This
includes any floor that could be converted to such a use such as a basement or
crawl space. The lowest floor is a determinate for the flood insurance premium
for a building, home or business. An unfinished or flood resistant enclosure,
usable solely for parking of vehicles, building access or storage in an area
other than a basement area is not considered a building's lowest floor;
provided that such enclosure is not built so as to render the structure in
violation of the applicable nonelevation design requirement of section 60.3 of
the national flood insurance program regulations.
LUMINAIRE: A complete lighting unit consisting of a light source and all
necessary mechanical, electrical, and decorative parts ready to be mounted on a
pole or other location.
MAJOR SITE PLAN: A site plan that does not qualify as a minor site plan.
MANUFACTURED HOME: A building, fabricated in an off-site facility for
installation or assembly at the building site, transportable in one or more
sections, that, in the traveling mode, is eight feet (8') or more in width or
forty feet (40') or more in length, or when erected is three hundred twenty
(320) or more square feet in size, and is built on a permanent chassis and
designed to be used as a dwelling for one family, with or without permanent
foundation, when connected to the required utilities, and includes the
plumbing, heating, air conditioning, and electrical system contained in the
building.
MANUFACTURED HOME PARK: A residential development on a site that consists of
two (2) or more spaces for the placement of manufactured homes for dwelling or
sleeping purposes, regardless of whether or not a fee is charged for the use of
such space. This development is typified by a land-lease arrangement between
the residents of the manufactured homes in the community and a single ownership
entity or common owner(s) in a cooperative arrangement as opposed to a
development that consists of individually owned lots subdivided for the
placement of manufactured homes. A manufactured home park does not include real
property used for the display and sale of manufactured homes, unless the
manufactured homes for display or sale are permanently sited as model homes in
the park, nor does it include a recreational vehicle parking in which spaces
are not intended for long-term occupancy.
MANUFACTURED HOME PARK LOT: A parcel of land in a manufactured home park used
for the placement of a single manufactured home for the exclusive use of the
residents of the manufactured home. The area of the lot for rezoning purposes
shall not include any common or community open space. The area of the lot shall
not include any land devoted to the development of streets (public or private)
including any land used for common sidewalk or walkway area located parallel
and adjacent to a private street lying adjacent to the lot.
MEDICAL FACILITY: An establishment engaged in providing diagnostic services,
extensive medical treatment (including surgical services) and other hospital
services, as well as continuous nursing service, including general medical and
surgical hospitals, specialty hospitals, medical laboratories, bio medical
research and development, outpatient care facilities, medical schools and
associated dormitories, medical appliance sales, and similar uses, but not
including veterinary and animal services.
MEDICAL OR RECREATIONAL MARIJUANA DISPENSARY: A medical or recreational retail
marijuana store where customers or patients may purchase marijuana and
marijuana infused products as defined in and regulated by C.R.S. §§ 44-10-101,
et seq. It shall not include marijuana cultivation or manufacture.
MINOR SITE PLAN: A site plan that is eligible for minor site plan review as
stated in subsection
10-E-4B.
MOBILE HOME: A non-HUD compliant structure built prior to June 15, 1976, on a
permanent chassis, capable of being transported in one or more sections and
designed to be used with or without a permanent foundation as a dwelling when
connected to on-site utilities, but not including manufactured homes or
recreational vehicles. Mobile homes are not permitted in the Town.
MOTEL: A building or series of buildings operated as an establishment providing
accommodations in habitable units by prior arrangements, for compensation, for
periods of thirty (30) days at a time or less where access into each hotel unit
is from the exterior of the building. Motels shall not be permitted.
MULTI-USE TRAIL: A path physically separated from motor vehicle traffic,
located either within a street right-of-way or a separate right-of-way or
easement, and intended for use by some combination of bicyclists, pedestrians,
equestrians, and other non-motor vehicle traffic.
NONCONFORMING LOT OF RECORD: Any validly recorded lot existing at the time this
Land Use Code was adopted that does not comply with the minimum requirements of
the district where it is located.
NONCONFORMING PARKING: Any development that does not provide the number of off-
street parking spaces that would be required by this Land Use Code for a new
development of the same type. The existence of parking spaces located outside
of an approved driveway in the front or street side yard on a property in a
residential district that were not approved through a lot and site development
approval procedure do not constitute legal, nonconforming parking.
NONCONFORMING SIGN: Any sign established prior to the effective date of this
Land Use Code that is not in full compliance with the Land Use Code.
NONCONFORMING STRUCTURE: A structure that does not comply with the height,
setback, density, or floor area ratio requirements of the district where it is
located.
NONCONFORMING USE: An activity using land or structures that would not be
permitted to be established as a new use in the zone where it is located by the
regulations of this Land Use Code.
NURSERY OR GARDEN SUPPLY STORE: An establishment, including a building, part of
a building, or outdoor space for the growth, display and/or sale of plants,
trees, and other materials used for planting for retail sales and incidental
wholesale trade.
NURSING HOME: An establishment primarily engaged in providing intermediate or
long-term nursing and health related care to individuals.
OFFICE: A building or portion thereof in which services are provided and/or
business is conducted including administrative, professional, governmental, or
clerical operations. Typical examples include fire service, ambulance, judicial
court or government offices, post office, real estate, campaign headquarters,
political and philanthropic offices, radio stations, call centers, insurance,
property management, investment, financial, employment, travel, advertising,
law, architecture, design, engineering, accounting, and similar offices. This
use includes accessory uses such as coffee shops, health facilities, parking,
limited retail sales, or other amenities primarily for the use of employees in
the building.
OUTDOOR EATING AREA: Any group of tables, chairs, or other seating fixtures and
appurtenances intended for the outdoor consumption of food or beverage by
patrons, employees, or tenants, when located adjacent to an establishment
having the same operator.
OUTDOOR ENTERTAINMENT OR RECREATION: A commercial recreation facility that is
primarily an open-air facility, such as baseball fields, swimming pools,
skating rinks, golf driving ranges, miniature golf facilities, and outdoor
concert halls.
PARKING LOT: A surface area whose purpose is to provide accessory or primary
use parking spaces for motor vehicles, this category also includes community
lots that are established to meet the parking needs in a residential area.
PARKING GARAGE: An above ground and/or belowground structure, or a part of a
primary structure, designed for parking automobiles, in which at least one
level of parking is located above or below another level of parking in the same
structure. This use does not include parking and storage facilities for
recreational vehicles, boats, and trucks seven feet (7') in height or greater.
PARKING SPACE: An enclosed or unenclosed, covered or open area designated for
vehicular parking and meeting the requirements in section 10-D-5. Parking
spaces shall be served by a driveway connecting them with a street or alley and
permitting ingress or egress of vehicles.
PARKS AND OPEN SPACE: A publicly or privately owned open space area
specifically defined or set aside for active and/or passive recreational uses.
Parks and open space include all landscaping, facilities and apparatus, playing
fields, trails and buildings and structures that are consistent with general
outdoor recreational purposes.
PHOTOMETRIC PLAN: A proposed exterior lighting plan used to verify compliance
with the standards for exterior lighting in this LUC. The plan must be
scalable, indicate the position of light fixtures and light poles, and contain
a mathematical grid of the footcandles produced by each fixture.
PLACES OF WORSHIP: A building or structure, or groups of buildings or
structures, that by design and construction are primarily intended for the
conducting of organized religious services and associated accessory uses.
PLAT, FINAL: The final map on which an applicant's plan for the division of
land for purposes of development is presented to the Town for approval and
that, if approved, will be submitted to the County Recorder.
PLAT, PRELIMINARY: A draft map on which an applicant's plan for the division of
land for purposes of development is presented to the Town for review and
comment regarding compliance with this Land Use Code and other standards and
regulations, prior to submittal of a final plat for approval.
PROPERTY OWNER: The fee owner of land, or the beneficial owner of land whose
interest is primarily one of possession and enjoyment in contemplation of
ultimate ownership. The term includes but is not limited to venders under a
contract for deed.
QUARRY: Any open excavation made for the removal of any soil, earth, clay,
marl, sand, gravel or unconsolidated rock or mineral in order to supply
material for construction, manufacturing or industrial purposes, but shall not
include an excavation incidental to the erection of a building or structure.
RECREATIONAL VEHICLE: A temporary structure, less than forty feet (40') in
length, that can be towed, hauled or driven and is primarily designed as
temporary housing accommodations for recreational, camping or travel use
including but not limited to travel trailers, truck campers, camping trailers
and self-propelled motor homes.
RECREATIONAL VEHICLE AND BOAT PARKING: Storage of recreational vehicles and
boats at a residence as an accessory to the primary use of the property.
RESTAURANT: An establishment that sells food or beverages in a ready-to-consume
state, in individual servings, that the customer consumes while seated at
tables or counters located in or immediately adjacent to the building in which
the use is located, and that may include carry-out service. This includes any
portion of an establishment used for seating for the consumption of food on the
premises that sells prepared food or beverages, such as a bakery, delicatessen,
cafes, and coffee shops.
RETAIL ESTABLISHMENT: An establishment engaged in selling groceries, goods or
merchandise to the general public for personal or household consumption and
rendering services incidental to the sale of such goods, including furniture
and appliance sales and business centers. These establishments are
characterized by the following: 1) They buy and receive as well as sell
groceries, goods, or merchandise; 2) They may process some products, but such
processing is incidental or subordinate to the selling activities; and 3) They
predominantly sell to customers for their own personal or household use.
RETAIL, SMALL: A retail establishment that is under five thousand (5,000)
square feet gross floor area.
RETAIL, LARGE: A retail establishment that is over five thousand (5,000) square
feet gross floor area.
ROOFTOP PATIO: An area located on or above the roof of a commercial structure
designed or used for patrons of the business located in that structure.
ROOF-MOUNTED MECHANICAL EQUIPMENT: Any mechanical equipment that is affixed to
a roof including subpanels, air conditioners, heating, cooling and ventilating
equipment, kitchen hoods and vents, and pumps.
SCHOOL: A public, parochial or private school which provides an educational
program for one or more grades between grades 1 and 12 and which is commonly
known as an elementary school, middle school, junior high school, senior high
school or high school.
SEASONAL SALES: A building or structure used for the retail sales of Christmas
trees, holiday décor and seasonal gifts, fresh fruits, vegetables, flowers,
herbs, or plants. Such use may also involve the accessory sales of other
unprocessed foodstuffs, home processed food products such as jams, jellies,
pickles, sauces or baked goods, and homemade handicrafts. Such uses also
include "pick your own" establishments where customers gather their own produce
from the fields for purchase and off-site consumption.
SETBACK: The separation in linear feet, measured on a horizontal plane,
required between the wall of a building and each of its lot lines at a given
height.
SELF SERVICE STORAGE FACILITY: An establishment designed and used for the
purpose of renting or leasing individual storage spaces to tenants who have
sole private access to such space for storing personal property.
SHORT-TERM RENTAL: An accessory residential use where a unit is rented out for
periods of less than thirty (30) days at a time.
SIGN: Any medium, including its structure and component parts, including any
illumination device, that is used or intended to be used to attract attention
and/or advertise or promote a business or that is visible by the general public
from any public right-of-way or any public area.
SIGN, ABANDONED: Any sign that is located on property that becomes vacant and
is unoccupied for a period of three (3) months or more, or any sign that
pertains to a time, event or purpose which no longer applies.
SIGN AREA: The surface area of a sign, as determined by staff, including its
facing, copy, insignia, background and borders, which is described by a
combination of plane geometric figures.
SIGN, MURAL: A type of wall sign that consists of paint applied directly to the
exterior wall of a building or structure. Mural signs may not include any
additional materials including, but not limited to, electrical components or
lighting, dimensional structural elements, or automated methods that cause
changes in the appearance of the mural.
SIGN, OFF-PREMISES: A sign that directs attention to a business, product,
commodity, service, entertainment, or attraction sold, produced, offered or
existing elsewhere than upon the lot or parcel where the sign is located.
SIGN, ROOF: A sign painted on the roof of a building, or supported by poles,
uprights or braces extending from the roof of a building, or projecting above
the roof of a building.
SIGN, TEMPORARY: A sign that is intended for a definite and limited period of
display.
SITE-SPECIFIC DEVELOPMENT PLAN: The approval by the Board of Trustees of an
application for a rezoning to planned development or final plat.
SOLAR COLLECTOR, GROUND- OR BUILDING-MOUNTED: A photovoltaic (PV) panel, array
of panels or other solar energy device, the primary purpose of which is to
provide for the collection, inversion, storage, and distribution of solar
energy for electricity generation, space heating, space cooling, or water
heating. Ground-Mounted Solar Collector may be a principal or accessory use.
Building-Mounted Solar Collector is an accessory use. Building-Mounted Solar
Collector includes agrivolatic systems and parking canopy solar systems.
SPECIAL EVENT: A temporary use on public or private property that extends
beyond the normal uses and standards allowed by this Code. Special events
include, but are not limited to, fundraising activities, educational, historic,
religious and patriotic displays or exhibits, circuses, amusements, outdoor
concerts, festivals, revivals, street fairs, outdoor arts and crafts fairs,
weddings, conferences, retreats, trainings, and other organized community
events.
SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA: The land in the floodplain subject to a one percent
(1%) or greater chance of flooding in any given year, also know as the one
hundred (100) year floodplain.
STAFF: An employee of the Town of Morrison designated by the Town Manager to
oversee such duties as prescribed herein.
STRUCTURE: The result of arranging materials and parts together, such as
buildings, tanks, and fences (but not including tents or vehicles) and placing
them or attaching them to a lot. It shall also mean a mobile or manufactured
home, anything constructed or erected, any edifice or building of any kind or
any piece of work artificially built up or composed of parts joined together in
some definite manner, which is located on or in the ground or is attached to
something having a location on or in the ground, including swimming and wading
pools and covered patios. Paved areas, walks, tennis courts, and similar
outdoor areas and fences or walls two feet or less in height are excepted.
SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT: Any reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition, or other
improvement of a structure, the cost of which equals or exceeds thirty percent
(30%) of the market value of the structure before the start of construction of
the improvement.
TEMPORARY USE: A use that is permitted as a temporary use only after a
temporary use permit is obtained pursuant to subsection
10-E-4E, and subject to any use-specific standards.
TOWN MANAGER: The Town Manager of the Town of Morrison, or their authorized
representative.
UNIFORMITY RATIO: A ratio between the lowest exterior light level reading and
the average exterior light level reading taken throughout the applicable
property and shown on the photometric plan for the property.
UTILITY, MAJOR: A facility providing an important regional utility service,
such as water, sewer, or drainage, that normally entails construction of new
buildings or structures, and that sometimes has employees on the site on an
ongoing basis including but not limited to water towers, natural gas regulating
stations, electric substations, water treatment plants, sewage treatment
plants, above- or belowground reservoirs, regional stormwater detention ponds,
electric power lines that transmit over one hundred ten (110) KV of power, and
other large facilities that enable the provision of utility services to large
geographic area or a large number of people. Major Utility does not include
Commercial Wireless Telecommunications Facilities (CWTS), Geothermal Energy
System, Ground- or Building-Mounted Solar Collector, or Ground- or Building-
Mounted Wind Energy Conversion System (WECS).
UTILITY, MINOR: Equipment necessary to support utility services to development
within the immediate vicinity and that involves only minor accessory
structures, and that typically do not have employees located at the site on an
ongoing basis including but not limited to electric transformer stations and
service boxes, gas regulator stations, telephone service boxes, and well, water
and sewer pumping stations, and related underground and aboveground pipes and
wires, but excluding electric power transmission lines that transmit over one
hundred ten (110) KV of power.
URBAN AGRICULTURE: The cultivation of food and/or horticulture crops,
aquaponics, aquaculture, and/or hydroponics. Such use may include the
production and sale of food products from food grown on the premises. Urban
agriculture includes the raising of small animals like bees for the purpose of
producing honey and birds, like chickens and ducks, for the purposes of
producing eggs but does not include slaughtering or selling meat or the keeping
of any large animals.
USE BY RIGHT: A use that is permitted by right in a particular zoning district,
subject to compliance with any use-specific standards.
VESTED PROPERTY RIGHT: A property right to undertake and complete development
and use of property under the terms and conditions of a site-specific
development plan.
VETERINARY AND ANIMAL SERVICES: A commercial establishment engaged in the
practice of veterinary medicine, dentistry, or surgery, along with those
providing animal related services such as kennels, grooming, or breeding
services. A single instance of incidental breeding of a household animal is not
included in this definition.
VISION CLEARANCE TRIANGLE: An area extending thirty (30) horizontal feet along
each corner intersection to a joining diagonal line from each thirty foot (30')
extension to create a triangle and vertically between two and one-half and nine
feet (2.5'-9') above the gutter line.
WIND ENERGY CONVERSION SYSTEM, GROUND- OR BUILDING- MOUNTED ("WECS"): All
necessary devices that together convert wind energy into electricity, including
the rotor, nacelle, generator, WECS Tower, electrical components, WECS
foundation, transformer, and electrical cabling from the WECS Tower to the
substation(s).
(Ord. 553, 5-20-2025; amd. Ord. 555, 8-19-2025)
CHAPTER 2
SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS  1
 
Notes
1    Subdivision Regulations were previously adopted by Ord. 279, 11-4-1997
ARTICLE A. GENERAL PROVISIONS
SECTION:
10-2A-1: Purpose
10-2A-2: Applicability
10-2A-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this Chapter is to:
   A.   Promote orderly, efficient, and integrated development;
   B.   Encourage the proper arrangement of subdivisions in relation to
existing or planned subdivisions in order to facilitate safe, efficient and
pleasant walking, biking and driving;
   C.   Ensure an adequate and efficient street system by regulating the
location, design, class, and type of street, sidewalk and other transportation
corridors; and
   D.   Secure adequate provisions of water, electric service, drainage, sewers
and other facilities and services for the health and safety of Town citizens.
(Ord. 551, 10-1-2024)
10-2A-2: APPLICABILITY:
This Chapter shall be applicable to any subdivision of land within the Town
except the following shall be exempt:
   A.   Division of land through an estate proceeding; and
   B.   Division of land through a foreclosure of a deed of trust.
(Ord. 551, 10-1-2024)
ARTICLE B. ADMINISTRATION AND REVIEW PROCEDURES
SECTION:
10-2B-1: Summary Table Of Subdivision Review Procedures
10-2B-2: Common Procedures
10-2B-3: Subdivision Procedures
10-2B-1: SUMMARY TABLE OF SUBDIVISION REVIEW PROCEDURES:
Table B-1 lists the subdivision applications required by this Chapter, whether
a community meeting and public notice is required, and the role of the Town
review and decision-making bodies in each application.
 
Table B-1: Summary Table of Subdivision Review Procedures
= Required; R = Review and Recommendation; D = Review and Decision; A =
Appeal; < > = Public Hearing Required
                                                              Review and
              Land Use Code Community Notice                  Decision-Making
Procedure     Reference     Meeting                           Bodies
                                      Published Mailed Posted Staff Board of
                                                                    Trustees
Subdivision Procedures
Minor                                                         D     A
Subdivision
Major
Subdivision -                                                 R     <D>
Preliminary
Plat
Major
Subdivision -                                                 R     D
Final Plat
 
(Ord. 551, 10-1-2024; amd. Ord. 552, 2-4-2025)
10-2B-2: COMMON PROCEDURES:
The common procedures in Section
10-1E-2 of this Code shall apply to subdivision procedures.
(Ord. 551, 10-1-2024)
10-2B-3: SUBDIVISION PROCEDURES:
   A.   Minor Subdivision:
      1.   Applicability: Minor subdivisions shall only be permitted when:
         a.   A plat has previously been approved for the property;
         b.   The proposed subdivision would create two or fewer lots or
creates condominium units within a single plat;
         c.   The proposed subdivision would not require land dedication or
dedication of public improvements; and
         d.   The application is for one of the following:
            (1)   Boundary or lot line adjustments to an approved final plat
including lot line eliminations;
            (2)   Vacations that do not include improved streets;
            (3)   Condominiumization of units within an existing building;
            (4)   A minor change to an approved plat to address engineering or
technical constraints with no material effect on the plat and no relocations of
streets or rights-of-way; or
            (5)   Correction of a technical error on an approved final plat.
      2.   Plat Submittal: Minor subdivisions shall require the submittal and
approval of a final plat, replat, condominium plat, or amendment to an existing
final plat as applicable. All plats approved as a minor subdivision shall be
recorded.
      3.   Additional Criteria:
         a.   In addition to the criteria in Section
10-1E-2(I) of this Code, applications for a minor subdivision shall also:
            (1)   Demonstrate that the layout of lots, streets, driveways,
utilities, drainage facilities, and other services within the proposed
subdivision meets the Town's standards, minimizes the amount of land
disturbance, maximizes the amount of open space in the development, preserves
existing trees, vegetation and riparian areas, protects critical wildlife
habitat, and otherwise accomplishes the purposes and intent of this Code;
            (2)   Not result in the creation of lots that cannot be built under
this Chapter;
            (3)   Not affect a recorded easement without approval from the
easement holder;
            (4)   Provide all required in-lieu fees; and
            (5)   Not limit the Town's ability to effectively provide
facilities or services to all lots involved.
         b.   In addition to the criteria above, when a minor subdivision
involves a vacation, the application shall also demonstrate that:
            (1)   No roadway proposed to be vacated would leave any adjoining
land without a means of access to another public road; and
            (2)   It does not involve lots that have been sold or transferred;
or, if there have been sales or transfers, no development on any lots in the
subdivision and all of the owners agree to the vacation of the plat.
   B.   Major Subdivision:
      1.   Applicability: A major subdivision is required for all land
divisions that are not eligible for a minor subdivision.
      2.   Preliminary Plat:
         a.   A preliminary plat shall be required for all major subdivisions
that shows the overall character, proposed layout of land, and provisions of
facilities.
         b.   Additional Criteria:
            (1)   In addition to the criteria in Section
10-1E-2(I) of this Code, applications for a preliminary plat shall also:
               (A)   Provide lots, roads, driveways, utilities, drainage
facilities, and other services that are designed to minimize the amount of land
disturbance, maximize connectivity, maximize the amount of open space, and
preserve sensitive areas;
               (B)   Provide adequate mitigation to areas in natural hazard
areas and that proposed uses of these areas are compatible with such
conditions;
               (C)   Show location of public water and sewer system
connections;
               (D)   Provide a clear assumption of responsibility for
maintaining roads, open spaces, and other public and common facilities in the
subdivision; and
               (E)   If proposed in phases, the plat proposes reasonable
phasing for providing required infrastructure.
            (2)   In addition to the criteria above, when a subdivision
involves a vacation, the application shall also demonstrate that:
               (A)   No roadway proposed to be vacated would leave any
adjoining land without a means of access to another public road; and
               (B)   A subdivision plat does not involve lots that have been
sold or transferred; or, if there have been sales or transfers, no development
on any lots in the subdivision and all the owners agree to the vacation of the
plat.
      3.   Final Plat:
         a.   Following approval of a preliminary plat, a final plat shall be
required for all major subdivisions that reflects any changes required at the
preliminary plat stage and demonstrates conformance with the requirements of
this Code.
         b.   Additional Criteria: In addition to the criteria in subsection
B2, applications for a final plat shall also demonstrate compliance with the
approved preliminary plat including any conditions of approval.
(Ord. 551, 10-1-2024)
ARTICLE C. SUBDIVISION STANDARDS
SECTION:
10-2C-1: General Requirements
10-2C-2: Relationship To Site Plan Standards
10-2C-3: Subdivision Name
10-2C-4: General Improvement Requirements
10-2C-5: Roadway Improvements And Design
10-2C-6: Sidewalk, Bikeway, And Trail Improvements And Design
10-2C-7: Natural, Archaeological, And Scenic Resource Protection
10-2C-8: Stormwater And Drainage Design And Improvements
10-2C-9: Easements
10-2C-10: Utilities
10-2C-11: Maintenance
10-2C-1: GENERAL REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   The standards in this Chapter are minimum standards. The Town may
impose more restrictive standards when it finds that they are necessary to
conform the design of a proposed subdivision to sound engineering or design
standards or other standards in this Code.
   B.   All subdivisions shall comply with all other applicable zoning, design,
and development regulations set forth in this Code.
   C.   To the maximum extent practicable, the design of subdivisions shall
comply with all other Town-adopted plans and policies.
(Ord. 551, 10-1-2024)
10-2C-2: RELATIONSHIP TO SITE PLAN STANDARDS:
These standards are intended to supplement the requirements in Article D of
Chapter 1 of this Title. When a standard in this Article may be applied at the
site plan approval stage in conjunction with a requirement in Article D of
Chapter 1 of this Title, staff, in its sole discretion, may allow compliance
with a standard in this Article to be deferred to the site plan application.
(Ord. 551, 10-1-2024)
10-2C-3: SUBDIVISION NAME:
The proposed name of a subdivision shall be approved by staff and shall not use
a word that is the same as, similar to, or pronounced the same as a word in the
name of any other subdivision in the Town except for common locational terms
like hills and court.
(Ord. 551, 10-1-2024)
10-2C-4: GENERAL IMPROVEMENT REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Subdivision improvements shall comply with the Town Engineering Design
Standards as adopted by resolution of the Board of Trustees.
   B.   All on-site and off-site public improvements and common facilities that
are required to adequately serve the proposed development or are deemed
necessary to address the impact caused by the proposed development shall be
paid for and constructed by the applicant.
   C.   The public improvements and common facilities required to be paid for
and constructed as part of the proposed development shall be governed by a
separate development agreement, which shall include an adequate performance
guarantee unless such requirement is waived by staff because of a lack of
improvements required.
   D.   In addition to the particular improvements required by this Code, the
Town may require additional public improvements that are reasonably related to
the subdivision including parks, street trees, streets, sidewalks, public
sanitary sewer and water extensions, storm water management facilities, soil
erosion and sedimentation control, and monumentation.
   E.   An applicant may seek to stage or phase development to link the timing
of development with the adequacy of public facilities provided that the demands
for adequate public facilities generated by subsequent phases of the
development are adequately addressed.
(Ord. 551, 10-1-2024)
10-2C-5: ROADWAY IMPROVEMENTS AND DESIGN:
   A.   Street connections shall be provided to adjoining undeveloped and
underdeveloped lands within and outside the Town to allow future development to
connect to a public street system.
   B.   Street systems shall be designed to be through-streets. Permanent cul-
de-sacs and dead-end streets shall only be used when topography, the presence
of natural features, or vehicular safety factors make a vehicular connection
impractical.
   C.   Alleys are permitted and encouraged and shall be:
      1.   A minimum width of twenty feet (20'); and
      2.   Dedicated to the Town.
   D.   Street trees shall be installed on boulevards on public streets, shall
be included in the landscape plan for the property, and count toward the
minimum planting requirements in Section
10-1D-6.
   E.   Street lighting shall be installed in conformance with all Town-adopted
standards and shall be Dark Sky Association compliant.
   F.   The applicant shall construct or monetarily contribute to off-site
roadway improvements that serve the development based on the projected demand,
size of the property, and impacts caused by the vehicular traffic generated by
the subdivision including the frequency and size of vehicles accessing the
site.
(Ord. 551, 10-1-2024)
10-2C-6: SIDEWALK, BIKEWAY, AND TRAIL IMPROVEMENTS AND DESIGN:
   A.   Sidewalks, bikeways, and trails shall comply with Section
10-1D-4.
   B.   Accessible curb ramps from the sidewalk to street grade shall be
provided in conformance with the Americans with Disabilities Act and other
applicable law.
(Ord. 551, 10-1-2024)
10-2C-7: NATURAL, ARCHAEOLOGICAL, AND SCENIC RESOURCE PROTECTION:
   A.   Unless waived by staff based on evidence that no natural,
archaeological, or scenic resources exist on the site, all major subdivision
applications shall be accompanied with an existing conditions map prepared by a
licensed professional that outlines all riparian areas, wetlands, critical
wildlife habitat and corridors, archaeological features, geologic hazards, and
slopes greater than thirty percent (30%).
   B.   No land disturbance of any kind shall occur within ten feet (10') of
any identified natural and scenic feature unless adequate mitigation measures
that reduce or eliminate the impacts of the disturbance on the feature are
approved by Staff.
   C.   For subdivisions of three (3) acres or greater and to the maximum
extent reasonably practicable, developments shall be designed in a manner that
preserves the natural topography of the site and minimizes the use of cut and
fill.
(Ord. 551, 10-1-2024)
10-2C-8: STORMWATER AND DRAINAGE DESIGN AND IMPROVEMENTS:
Standards related to stormwater and drainage are located in
Chapter 6 of this Title.
(Ord. 551, 10-1-2024)
10-2C-9: EASEMENTS:
All easements and rights-of-way necessary to serve the development shall be
dedicated to the Town or the applicable utility provider by the applicant as
part of the subdivision approval process or through separate instrument in a
form approved by the Town Attorney.
(Ord. 551, 10-1-2024)
10-2C-10: UTILITIES:
   A.   Utilities shall comply with Title 8 of the Code.
   B.   All new utilities shall be placed and maintained underground, unless
determined by the Town that extraordinary circumstances related to the physical
condition of the property render undergrounding impossible. Such utilities
shall be constructed within street rights-of-way or within easements dedicated
for such use.
(Ord. 551, 10-1-2024)
10-2C-11: MAINTENANCE:
   A.   Maintenance of newly installed public improvements shall remain with
the applicant for a period of two (2) years from final inspection or as
otherwise defined in a development agreement.
   B.   Following the expiration of the required maintenance period, the Town
shall assume responsibility for maintenance and upkeep of public facilities
upon the acceptance of such improvements in a form approved by the Town.
(Ord. 551, 10-1-2024)
CHAPTER 3
FLOODPLAIN DAMAGE PREVENTION
SECTION:
10-3-1: Statutory Authorization
10-3-2: Findings Of Fact
10-3-3: Statement Of Purpose
10-3-4: Methods Of Reducing Flood Losses
10-3-5: Definitions
10-3-6: General Provisions
10-3-6-1: Lands To Which This Chapter Applies
10-3-6-2: Adoption Of Flood Insurance Study Flood Insurance Rate Map As
Official Flood Studies
10-3-6-3: Establishment Of Floodplain Development Permit
10-3-6-4: Compliance
10-3-6-5: Abrogation And Greater Restrictions
10-3-6-6: Interpretation
10-3-6-7: Warning And Disclaimer Of Liability
10-3-6-8: Severability
10-3-7: Administration
10-3-7-1: Designation Of The Floodplain Administrator
10-3-7-2: Duties And Responsibilities Of The Floodplain Administrator
10-3-7-3: Permit Procedures
10-3-7-4: Variance Procedures
10-3-7-5: Penalties For Noncompliance
10-3-8: Provisions For Flood Hazard Reduction
10-3-8-1: General Standards
10-3-8-2: Specific Standards
10-3-8-3: Standards For Areas Of Shallow Flooding (AO/AH Zones)
10-3-8-4: Floodways
10-3-8-5: Alteration Of A Watercourse
10-3-8-6: Properties Removed From The Floodplain By Fill
10-3-8-7: Standards For Subdivision Proposals
10-3-8-8: Standards For Critical Facilities
10-3-9: Fees
10-3-1: STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION:
The legislature of the state of Colorado has, in title 29, article 20 of the
Colorado Revised Statutes, delegated the responsibility of local governmental
units to adopt regulations designed to minimize flood losses. Therefore, the
board of trustees of the town of Morrison, Colorado, does hereby adopt the
following floodplain management regulations. (Ord. 407, 1-7-2014)
10-3-2: FINDINGS OF FACT:
   A.   The flood hazard areas of Morrison, Colorado, are subject to periodic
inundation, which can result in loss of life and property, health and safety
hazards, disruption of commerce and governmental services, and extraordinary
public expenditures for flood protection and relief, all of which adversely
affect the health, safety and general welfare of the public.
   B.   These flood losses are created by the cumulative effect of obstructions
in floodplains which cause an increase in flood heights and velocities, and by
the occupancy of flood hazard areas by uses vulnerable to floods and hazardous
to other lands because they are inadequately elevated, floodproofed or
otherwise protected from flood damage. (Ord. 407, 1-7-2014)
10-3-3: STATEMENT OF PURPOSE:
It is the purpose of this chapter to promote public health, safety and general
welfare and to minimize public and private losses due to flood conditions in
specific areas by provisions designed to:
   A.   Protect human life and health;
   B.   Minimize expenditure of public money for costly flood control projects;
   C.   Minimize the need for rescue and relief efforts associated with
flooding and generally undertaken at the expense of the general public;
   D.   Minimize prolonged business interruptions;
   E.   Minimize damage to critical facilities, infrastructure and other public
facilities such as water, sewer and gas mains, electric and communications
stations, and streets and bridges located in floodplains;
   F.   Help maintain a stable tax base by providing for the sound use and
development of flood prone areas in such a manner as to minimize future flood
blight areas;
   G.   Ensure that potential buyers are notified that property is located in a
flood hazard area;
   H.   Permit only that development within the floodplain which is appropriate
in light of the probability of flood damage; and
   I.   Any use not permitted in the primary zone district shall not be
permitted in the floodplain and any use as permitted in the primary zone
district shall be permitted in the floodplain area upon meeting conditions and
any requirements as prescribed by this chapter. (Ord. 407, 1-7-2014)
10-3-4: METHODS OF REDUCING FLOOD LOSSES:
In order to accomplish its purposes, this chapter uses the following methods:
   A.   Restrict or prohibit uses that are dangerous to health, safety or
property in times of flood, or cause excessive increases in flood heights or
velocities;
   B.   Require that uses vulnerable to floods, including facilities which
serve such uses, be protected against flood damage at the time of initial
construction;
   C.   Control the alteration of natural floodplains, stream channels, and
natural protective barriers, which are involved in the accommodation of
floodwaters;
   D.   Control filling, grading, dredging and other development which may
increase flood damage;
   E.   Prevent or regulate the construction of flood barriers which will
unnaturally divert floodwaters or which may increase flood hazards to other
lands. (Ord. 407, 1-7-2014)
10-3-5: DEFINITIONS:
Unless specifically defined below, words or phrases used in this chapter shall
be interpreted to give them the meaning they have in common usage and to give
this chapter its most reasonable application.
   ADDITION: Any activity that expands the enclosed footprint or increases the
square footage of an existing structure.
   ALLUVIAL FAN FLOODING: A fan shaped sediment deposit formed by a stream that
flows from a steep mountain valley or gorge onto a plain or the junction of a
tributary stream with the main stream. Alluvial fans contain active stream
channels and boulder bars, and recently abandoned channels. Alluvial fans are
predominantly formed by alluvial deposits and are modified by infrequent sheet
flood, channel avulsions and other stream processes.
   AREA OF SHALLOW FLOODING: A designated zone AO or AH on a community's flood
insurance rate map (FIRM) with a one percent (1%) chance or greater annual
chance of flooding to an average depth of one to three feet (3') where a
clearly defined channel does not exist, where the path of flooding is
unpredictable and where velocity flow may be evident. Such flooding is
characterized by ponding or sheet flow.
   BASE FLOOD ELEVATION (BFE): The elevation shown on a FEMA flood insurance
rate map for zones AE, AH, A1-A30, AR, AR/A, AR/AE, AR/A1-A30, AR/AH, AR/AO,
V1-V30, and VE that indicates the water surface elevation resulting from a
flood that has a one percent (1%) chance of equaling or exceeding that level in
any given year.
   BASEMENT: Any area of a building having its floor subgrade (below ground
level) on all sides.
   CHANNEL: The physical confine of stream or waterway consisting of a bed and
stream banks, existing in a variety of geometries.
   CHANNELIZATION: The artificial creation, enlargement or realignment of a
stream channel.
   CODE OF FEDERAL REGULATIONS (CFR): The codification of the general and
permanent rules published in the federal register by the executive departments
and agencies of the federal government. It is divided into fifty (50) titles
that represent broad areas subject to federal regulation.
   COMMUNITY: Any political subdivision in the state of Colorado that has
authority to adopt and enforce floodplain management regulations through
zoning, including, but not limited to, cities, towns, unincorporated areas in
the counties, Indian tribes and drainage and flood control districts.
   CONDITIONAL LETTER OF MAP REVISION (CLOMR):   FEMA's comment on a proposed
project, which does not revise an effective floodplain map, that would, upon
construction, affect the hydrologic or hydraulic characteristics of a flooding
source and thus result in the modification of the existing regulatory
floodplain.
   CRITICAL FACILITY: A structure or related infrastructure, but not the land
on which it is situated, as specified in section
10-3-8-8 of this chapter, that if flooded may result in significant hazards to
public health and safety or interrupt essential services and operations for the
community at any time before, during and after a flood. See section
10-3-8-8 of this chapter.
   DFIRM DATABASE: Database (usually spreadsheets containing data and analyses
that accompany DFIRMs). The FEMA mapping specifications and guidelines outline
requirements for the development and maintenance of DFIRM databases.
   DEVELOPMENT: For purposes of this chapter, any manmade change in improved
and unimproved real estate, including, but not limited to, buildings or other
structures, mining, dredging, filling, grading, paving, excavation or drilling
operations or storage of equipment or materials.
   DIGITAL FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (DFIRM):   FEMA digital floodplain map.
These digital maps serve as "regulatory floodplain maps" for insurance and
floodplain management purposes.
   ELEVATED BUILDING: A nonbasement building: a) built, in the case of a
building in zones A1-30, AE, A, A99, AO, AH, B, C, X, and D, to have the top of
the elevated floor above the ground level by means of pilings, columns (posts
and piers), or shear walls parallel to the flow of the water and b) adequately
anchored so as not to impair the structural integrity of the building during a
flood of up to the magnitude of the base flood. In the case of zones A1-30, AE,
A, A99, AO, AH, B, C, X, and D, "elevated building" also includes a building
elevated by means of fill or solid foundation perimeter walls with openings
sufficient to facilitate the unimpeded movement of floodwaters.
   EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR MANUFACTURED HOME SUBDIVISION: A
manufactured home park for which the construction of facilities for servicing
the lots on which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including, at a
minimum, the installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either
final site grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed before the
effective date of the floodplain management regulations adopted by the town of
Morrison.
   EXPANSION TO AN EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR MANUFACTURED HOME
SUBDIVISION: The preparation of additional sites by the construction of
facilities for servicing the lots on which the manufactured homes are to be
affixed (including the installation of utilities, the construction of streets,
and either final site grading or the pouring of concrete pads).
   FEMA: Federal emergency management agency, the agency responsible for
administering the national flood insurance program.
   FEDERAL REGISTER: The official daily publication for rules, proposed rules,
and notices of federal agencies and organizations, as well as executive orders
and other presidential documents.
500-YEAR FLOOD: A flood having a recurrence interval that has a 0.2 percent
chance of being equaled or exceeded during any given year (0.2 percent chance
annual flood). The term does not imply that the flood will necessarily happen
once every five hundred (500) years.
500-YEAR FLOODPLAIN: The area of land susceptible to being inundated as a
result of the occurrence of a 500-year flood.
   FLOOD CONTROL STRUCTURE: A physical structure designed and built expressly
or partially for the purpose of reducing, redirecting, or guiding flood flows
along a particular waterway. These specialized flood modifying works are those
constructed in conformance with sound engineering standards.
   FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (FIRM): An official map of a community, on which
the federal emergency management agency has delineated both the special flood
hazard areas and the risk premium zones applicable to the community.
   FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY (FIS): The official report provided by the federal
emergency management agency. The report contains the flood insurance rate map
as well as flood profiles for studied flooding sources that can be used to
determine base flood elevations for some areas.
   FLOOD OR FLOODING: A general and temporary condition of partial or complete
inundation of normally dry land areas from:
   A.   The overflow of water from channels and reservoir spillways;
   B.   The unusual and rapid accumulation or runoff of surface waters from any
source; or
   C.   Mudslides or mudflows that occur from excess surface water that is
combined with mud or other debris that is sufficiently fluid so as to flow over
the surface of normally dry land areas (such as earth carried by a current of
water and deposited along the path of the current).
   FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR: The Morrison official designated by the board of
trustees to administer and enforce the flood damage prevention ordinance and
floodplain management regulations.
   FLOODPLAIN DEVELOPMENT PERMIT: A permit required before construction or
development begins within any special flood hazard area (SFHA). If FEMA has not
defined the SFHA within the town of Morrison, the town of Morrison shall
require permits for all proposed construction or other development in the town
of Morrison including the placement of manufactured homes, so that it may
determine whether such construction or other development is proposed within
flood prone areas. Permits are required to ensure that proposed development
projects meet the requirements of the NFIP and this floodplain management
ordinance.
   FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT: The operation of an overall program of corrective and
preventive measures for reducing flood damage, including, but not limited to,
emergency preparedness plans, flood control works and floodplain management
regulations.
   FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT REGULATIONS: Zoning ordinances, subdivision
regulations, building codes, health regulations, special purpose ordinances
(such as a floodplain ordinance, grading ordinance and erosion control
ordinance) and other applications of the police power. The term describes such
state or local regulations, in any combination thereof, which provide standards
for the purpose of flood damage prevention and reduction.
   FLOODPLAIN OR FLOOD PRONE AREA: Any land area susceptible to being inundated
as the result of a flood, including the area of land over which floodwater
would flow from the spillway of a reservoir.
   FLOODPROOFING: Any combination of structural and/or nonstructural additions,
changes, or adjustments to structures which reduce or eliminate flood damage to
real estate or improved real property, water and sanitary facilities,
structures and their contents.
   FLOODWAY (REGULATORY FLOODWAY): The channel of a river or other watercourse
and adjacent land areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the base
flood without cumulatively increasing the water surface elevation more than a
designated height. The Colorado statewide standard for the designated height to
be used for all newly studied reaches shall be one-half foot (1/2') (6 inches).
Letters of map revision to existing floodway delineations may continue to use
the floodway criteria in place at the time of the existing floodway
delineation.
   FREEBOARD: The vertical distance in feet above a predicted water surface
elevation intended to provide a margin of safety to compensate for unknown
factors that could contribute to flood heights greater than the height
calculated for a selected size flood such as debris blockage of bridge openings
and the increased runoff due to urbanization of the watershed.
   FUNCTIONALLY DEPENDENT USE: A use which cannot perform its intended purpose
unless it is located or carried out in close proximity to water. The term
includes only docking facilities, port facilities that are necessary for the
loading and unloading of cargo or passengers, and shipbuilding and ship repair
facilities, but does not include long term storage or related manufacturing
facilities.
   HIGHEST ADJACENT GRADE: The highest natural elevation of the ground surface
prior to construction next to the proposed walls of a structure.
   HISTORIC STRUCTURE: Any structure that is:
   A.   Listed individually in the national register of historic places (a
listing maintained by the department of interior) or preliminarily determined
by the secretary of the interior as meeting the requirements for individual
listing on the national register;
   B.   Certified or preliminarily determined by the secretary of the interior
as contributing to the historical significance of a registered historic
district or a district preliminarily determined by the secretary to qualify as
a registered historic district;
   C.   Individually listed on a state inventory of historic places in states
with historic preservation programs which have been approved by the secretary
of interior; or
   D.   Individually listed on a local inventory of historic places in
communities with historic preservation programs that have been certified
either:
      1. By an approved state program as determined by the secretary of the
interior; or
      2. Directly by the secretary of the interior in states without approved
programs.
   LETTER OF MAP REVISION (LOMR):   FEMA's official revision of an effective
flood insurance rate map (FIRM), or flood boundary and floodway map (FBFM), or
both. LOMRs are generally based on the implementation of physical measures that
affect the hydrologic or hydraulic characteristics of a flooding source and
thus result in the modification of the existing regulatory floodway, the
effective base flood elevations (BFEs), or the special flood hazard area
(SFHA).
   LETTER OF MAP REVISION BASED ON FILL (LOMR-F):   FEMA's modification of the
special flood hazard area (SFHA) shown on the flood insurance rate map (FIRM)
based on the placement of fill outside the existing regulatory floodway.
   LEVEE: A manmade embankment, usually earthen, designed and constructed in
accordance with sound engineering practices to contain, control, or divert the
flow of water so as to provide protection from temporary flooding. For a levee
structure to be reflected on the FEMA FIRMs as providing flood protection, the
levee structure must meet the requirements set forth in 44 CFR 65.10.
   LEVEE SYSTEM: A flood protection system which consists of a levee, or
levees, and associated structures, such as closure and drainage devices, which
are constructed and operated in accordance with sound engineering practices.
   LOWEST FLOOR: The lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area (including
basement). Any floor used for living purposes which includes working, storage,
sleeping, cooking and eating, or recreation or any combination thereof. This
includes any floor that could be converted to such a use such as a basement or
crawl space. The lowest floor is a determinate for the flood insurance premium
for a building, home or business. An unfinished or flood resistant enclosure,
usable solely for parking of vehicles, building access or storage in an area
other than a basement area is not considered a building's lowest floor;
provided that such enclosure is not built so as to render the structure in
violation of the applicable nonelevation design requirement of section 60.3 of
the national flood insurance program regulations.
   MMC: Morrison municipal code.
   MANUFACTURED HOME: A structure transportable in one or more sections, which
is built on a permanent chassis and is designed for use with or without a
permanent foundation when connected to the required utilities. The term
"manufactured home" does not include a "recreational vehicle".
   MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR MANUFACTURED HOME SUBDIVISION: For purposes of
this chapter, a parcel (or contiguous parcels) of land divided into two (2) or
more manufactured home lots for rent or sale.
   MATERIAL SAFETY DATA SHEET (MSDS): A form with data regarding the properties
of a particular substance. An important component of product stewardship and
workplace safety, it is intended to provide workers and emergency personnel
with procedures for handling or working with that substance in a safe manner,
and includes information such as physical data (melting point, boiling point,
flashpoint, etc.), toxicity, health effects, first aid, reactivity, storage,
disposal, protective equipment, and spill handling procedures.
   MEAN SEA LEVEL: For purposes of the national flood insurance program, the
North American vertical datum (NAVD) of 1988 or other datum, to which base
flood elevations shown on a community's flood insurance rate map are
referenced.
   NATIONAL FLOOD INSURANCE PROGRAM (NFIP):   FEMA's program of flood insurance
coverage and floodplain management administered in conjunction with the Robert
T. Stafford relief and emergency assistance act. The NFIP has applicable
federal regulations promulgated in title 44 of the code of federal regulations.
The U.S. congress established the NFIP in 1968 with the passage of the national
flood insurance act of 1968.
   NEW MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR MANUFACTURED HOME SUBDIVISION: A manufactured
home park for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including, at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed on or after the effective
date of floodplain management regulations adopted by the town of Morrison.
NO RISE CERTIFICATION: A record of the results of an engineering analysis
conducted to determine whether a project will increase flood heights in a
floodway. A no rise certification must be supported by technical data and
signed by a registered Colorado professional engineer. The supporting technical
data should be based on the standard step backwater computer model used to
develop the 100-year floodway shown on the flood insurance rate map (FIRM) or
flood boundary and floodway map (FBFM).
100-YEAR FLOOD: A flood having a recurrence interval that has a one percent
(1%) chance of being equaled or exceeded during any given year (1 percent
annual chance flood). The terms "one hundred-year flood" and "one percent
chance flood" are synonymous with the term "100-year flood". The term does not
imply that the flood will necessarily happen once every one hundred (100)
years.
100-YEAR FLOODPLAIN: The area of land susceptible to being inundated as a
result of the occurrence of a 100-year flood.
   PERSON: Any individual or group of individuals, a corporation, partnership,
association, or any other entity, including state and local governments and
agencies.
   PHYSICAL MAP REVISION (PMR):   FEMA's action whereby one or more map panels
are physically revised and republished. A PMR is used to change flood risk
zones, floodplain and/or floodway delineations, flood elevations, and/or
planimetric features.
   REACH: A hydraulic engineering term to describe longitudinal segments of a
stream or river. In a certain area, an example of a reach would be the segment
of a stream or gulch between two (2) consecutive bridge crossings.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE: A vehicle which is: a) built on a single chassis; b)
four hundred (400) square feet or less when measured at the largest horizontal
projections; c) designed to be self- propelled or permanently towable by a
light duty truck; and d) designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling
but as temporary living quarters for recreational, camping, travel, or seasonal
use.
   SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA: The land in the floodplain within a community
subject to a one percent (1%) or greater chance of flooding in any given year,
i.e., the 100-year floodplain.
   START OF CONSTRUCTION: Includes substantial improvement, and means the date
the building permit was issued, provided the actual start of construction,
addition, placement, or other improvement was within one hundred eighty (180)
days of the permit date. The actual start means either the first placement of
permanent construction of a structure on a site, such as the pouring of slab or
footings, the installation of piles, the construction of columns, or any work
beyond the stage of excavation; or the placement of a manufactured home on a
foundation. Start of construction does not include land preparation, such as
clearing, grading and filling; nor does it include the installation of streets
and/or walkways; nor does it include excavation for basement, footings, piers
or foundations or the erection of temporary forms; nor does it include the
installation on the property of accessory buildings, such as garages or sheds
not occupied as dwelling units or not part of the main structure. For a
substantial improvement, the actual start of construction means the first
alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor, or other structural part of a building,
whether or not that alteration affects the external dimensions of the building.
   STRUCTURE: For purposes of this chapter, a walled and roofed building,
including a gas or liquid storage tank, which is principally aboveground, as
well as a manufactured home.
   SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE: Damage of any origin sustained by a structure whereby
the cost of restoring the structure to its before damaged condition would equal
or exceed fifty percent (50%) of the market value of the structure just prior
to when the damage occurred.
   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT: Any repair, reconstruction, rehabilitation,
addition, or other improvement of a structure, the cost of which equals or
exceeds fifty percent (50%) of the market value of the structure either: a)
before "start of construction" of the improvement, or b) if the structure has
been damaged, and is being restored, before the damage occurred. The value of
the structure shall be determined by the town of Morrison. This includes
structures which have incurred "substantial damage", regardless of the actual
repair work performed. The term does not, however, include either:
   A.   Any project for improvement of a structure to correct existing
violations of state or local health, sanitary, or safety code specifications
which have been identified by the town of Morrison or other code enforcement
official, and which are the minimum necessary conditions; or
   B.   Any alteration of a "historic structure" provided that the alteration
will not affect the external dimensions of a structure, or preclude the
structure's continued designation as a "historic structure".
   THRESHOLD PLANNING QUANTITY (TPQ): A quantity designated for each chemical
on the list of extremely hazardous substances that triggers notification by
facilities to the state that such facilities are subject to emergency planning
requirements.
   VARIANCE: A grant of relief by the town of Morrison to a person from the
requirements of this chapter. A variance permits construction or development in
a manner otherwise prohibited by this chapter.
   WATER SURFACE ELEVATION: The height, in relation to the North American
vertical datum (NAVD) of 1988 (or other datum, where specified), of floods of
various magnitudes and frequencies in the floodplains of coastal or riverine
areas. (Ord. 407, 1-7-2014)
10-3-6: GENERAL PROVISIONS:
10-3-6-1: LANDS TO WHICH THIS CHAPTER APPLIES:
This chapter shall apply to all special flood hazard areas and areas removed
from the floodplain by the issuance of a FEMA letter of map revision based on
fill (LOMR-F) within the jurisdiction of Morrison, Colorado. (Ord. 407, 1-7-
2014)
10-3-6-2: ADOPTION OF FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP AS
OFFICIAL FLOOD STUDIES:
The special flood hazard areas identified by the federal emergency management
agency in a scientific and engineering report entitled, "The Flood Insurance
Study For Jefferson County And Incorporated Areas" dated February 5, 2014, with
accompanying flood insurance rate maps and/or flood boundary-floodway maps
(FIRM and/or FBFM) and any revisions thereto are hereby adopted by reference
and declared to be a part of this chapter. These special flood hazard areas
identified by the FIS and attendant mapping are the minimum area of
applicability of this chapter and may be supplemented by studies designated and
approved by the board of trustees of the town of Morrison. The floodplain
administrator shall keep a copy of the flood insurance study (FIS), DFIRMs,
FIRMs and/or FBFMs on file and available for public inspection. (Ord. 407, 1-7-
2014)
10-3-6-3: ESTABLISHMENT OF FLOODPLAIN DEVELOPMENT PERMIT:
A floodplain development permit shall be required to ensure conformance with
the provisions of this chapter. (Ord. 407, 1-7-2014)
10-3-6-4: COMPLIANCE:
No structure or land shall hereafter be located, altered, or have its use
changed within the special flood hazard area without full compliance with the
terms of this chapter and other applicable regulations. Nothing herein shall
prevent the board of trustees of the town of Morrison from taking such lawful
action as is necessary to prevent or remedy any violation. These regulations
meet the minimum requirements as set forth by the Colorado water conservation
board and the national flood insurance program. (Ord. 407, 1-7-2014)
10-3-6-5: ABROGATION AND GREATER RESTRICTIONS:
This chapter is not intended to repeal, abrogate, or impair any existing
easements, covenants, or deed restrictions; however, where this chapter and
another chapter or ordinance, easement, covenant, or deed restriction conflict
or overlap, whichever imposes the more stringent restrictions shall prevail.
(Ord. 407, 1-7-2014)
10-3-6-6: INTERPRETATION:
In the interpretation and application of this chapter, all provisions shall be:
   A.   Considered as minimum requirements;
   B.   Liberally construed in favor of the governing body; and
   C.   Deemed neither to limit nor repeal any other powers granted under state
statutes. (Ord. 407, 1-7-2014)
10-3-6-7: WARNING AND DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY:
The degree of flood protection required by this chapter is considered
reasonable for regulatory purposes and is based on scientific and engineering
considerations. On rare occasions greater floods can and will occur and flood
heights may be increased by manmade or natural causes. This chapter does not
imply that land outside the special flood hazard area or uses permitted within
such areas will be free from flooding or flood damages. This chapter shall not
create liability on the part of the town of Morrison or any official or
employee thereof for any flood damages that result from reliance on this
chapter or any administrative decision lawfully made thereunder. (Ord. 407, 1-
7-2014)
10-3-6-8: SEVERABILITY:
This chapter and the various parts thereof are hereby declared to be severable.
Should any section of this chapter be declared by the courts to be
unconstitutional or invalid, such decision shall not affect the validity of the
chapter as a whole, or any portion thereof other than the section so declared
to be unconstitutional or invalid. (Ord. 407, 1-7-2014)
10-3-7: ADMINISTRATION:
10-3-7-1: DESIGNATION OF THE FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR:
The board of trustees of the town of Morrison shall by resolution designate the
floodplain administrator to administer, implement and enforce the provisions of
this chapter and other appropriate sections of 44 CFR (national flood insurance
program regulations) pertaining to floodplain management. (Ord. 407, 1-7-2014)
10-3-7-2: DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR:
Duties and responsibilities of the floodplain administrator shall include, but
not be limited to, the following:
   A.   Maintain and hold open for public inspection all records pertaining to
the provisions of this chapter, including the actual elevation (in relation to
mean sea level) of the lowest floor (including basement) of all new or
substantially improved structures and any floodproofing certificate required by
section
10-3-7-3 of this chapter.
   B.   Review, approve, or deny all applications for floodplain development
permits required by adoption of this chapter.
   C.   Review floodplain development permit applications to determine whether
a proposed building site, including the placement of manufactured homes, will
be reasonably safe from flooding.
   D.   Review permits for proposed development to assure that all necessary
permits have been obtained from those federal, state or local governmental
agencies (including section 404 of the federal water pollution control act
amendments of 1972, 33 USC 1334) from which prior approval is required.
   E.   Inspect all development at appropriate times during the period of
construction to ensure compliance with all provisions of this chapter,
including proper elevation of the structure.
   F.   Where interpretation is needed as to the exact location of the
boundaries of the special flood hazard area (for example, where there appears
to be a conflict between a mapped boundary and actual field conditions) the
floodplain administrator shall make the necessary interpretation.
   G.   When base flood elevation data has not been provided in accordance with
section
10-3-6-2 of this chapter, the floodplain administrator shall obtain, review and
reasonably utilize any base flood elevation data and floodway data available
from a federal, state, or other source, in order to administer the provisions
of section
10-3-8 of this chapter.
   H.   For waterways with base flood elevations for which a regulatory
floodway has not been designated, no new construction, substantial
improvements, or other development (including fill) shall be permitted within
zones A1-30 and AE on the community's FIRM, unless it is demonstrated that the
cumulative effect of the proposed development, when combined with all other
existing and anticipated development, will not increase the water surface
elevation of the base flood more than one-half foot (1/2') at any point within
the community.
   I.   Under the provisions of 44 CFR chapter 1, section 65.12, of the
national flood insurance program regulations, the town of Morrison may approve
certain development in zones A1-30, AE, AH, on the Morrison's FIRM which
increases the water surface elevation of the base flood by more than one-half
foot (1/2'), provided that the town of Morrison first applies for a conditional
FIRM revision through FEMA (conditional letter of map revision), fulfills the
requirements for such revisions as established under the provisions of section
65.12 and receives FEMA approval.
   J.   Notify, in riverine situations, adjacent communities and the state
coordinating agency, which is the Colorado water conservation board, prior to
any alteration or relocation of a watercourse, and submit evidence of such
notification to FEMA.
   K.   Ensure that the flood carrying capacity within the altered or relocated
portion of any watercourse is maintained. (Ord. 407, 1-7-2014)
10-3-7-3: PERMIT PROCEDURES:
Application for a floodplain development permit shall be presented to the
floodplain administrator on forms furnished by him/her and may include, but not
be limited to, plans in duplicate drawn to scale showing the location,
dimensions, and elevation of proposed landscape alterations, existing and
proposed structures, including the placement of manufactured homes, and the
location of the foregoing in relation to special flood hazard area.
Additionally, the following information is required:
   A.   Elevation (in relation to mean sea level), of the lowest floor
(including basement) of all new and substantially improved structures;
   B.   Elevation in relation to mean sea level to which any nonresidential
structure shall be floodproofed;
   C.   A certificate from a registered Colorado professional engineer or
architect that the nonresidential floodproofed structure shall meet the
floodproofing criteria of section
10-3-8-2 of this chapter;
   D.   Description of the extent to which any watercourse or natural drainage
will be altered or relocated as a result of proposed development;
   E.   Maintain a record of the above information in accordance with section
10-3-7-2 of this chapter;
   F.   Approval or denial of a floodplain development permit by the floodplain
administrator shall be based on all of the provisions of this chapter and the
following relevant factors:
      1.   The danger to life and property due to flooding or erosion damage;
      2.   The susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents to
flood damage and the effect of such damage on the individual owner;
      3.   The danger that materials may be swept onto other lands to the
injury of others;
      4.   The compatibility of the proposed use with existing and anticipated
development;
      5.   The safety of access to the property in times of flood for ordinary
and emergency vehicles;
      6.   The costs of providing governmental services during and after flood
conditions including maintenance and repair of streets and bridges, and public
utilities and facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical and water systems;
      7.   The expected heights, velocity, duration, rate of rise and sediment
transport of the floodwaters and the effects of wave action, if applicable,
expected at the site;
      8.   The necessity to the facility of a waterfront location, where
applicable;
      9.   The availability of alternative locations, not subject to flooding
or erosion damage, for the proposed use;
      10.   The relationship of the proposed use to the comprehensive plan for
that area. (Ord. 407, 1-7-2014)
10-3-7-4: VARIANCE PROCEDURES:
   A.   The Morrison board of trustees shall hear and render judgment on
requests for variances from the requirements of this chapter, and appeals from
a decision of the floodplain administrator.
   B.   The Morrison board of trustees shall hear and render judgment on an
appeal only when it is alleged there is an error in any requirement, decision,
or determination made by the floodplain administrator in the enforcement or
administration of this chapter.
   C.   Any person or persons aggrieved by the decision of the Morrison board
of trustees may appeal such decision to the Jefferson County district court.
   D.   The floodplain administrator shall maintain a record of all actions
involving an appeal and shall report variances to the federal emergency
management agency upon request.
   E.   Variances may be issued for the reconstruction, rehabilitation or
restoration of structures listed on the national register of historic places or
the state inventory of historic places, upon a determination that the proposed
repair or rehabilitation will not preclude the structures continued designation
as a historic structure and the variance is the minimum necessary to preserve
the historic character and design of the structure.
   F.   Variances may be issued for new construction and substantial
improvements to be erected on a lot of one-half (1/2) acre or less in size
contiguous to and surrounded by lots with existing structures constructed below
the base flood level, providing the relevant factors in section
10-3-7-3 of this chapter have been fully considered. As the lot size increases
beyond the one-half (1/2) acre, the technical justification required for
issuing the variance increases.
   G.   Upon consideration of the factors noted above and the intent of this
chapter, the Morrison board of trustees may attach such conditions to the
granting of variances as it deems necessary to further the purpose and
objectives of this chapter.
   H.   Variances shall not be issued within any designated floodway if any
increase in flood levels during the base flood discharge would result.
   I.   Prerequisites for granting variances:
      1.   Variances shall only be issued upon a determination that the
variance is the minimum necessary, considering the flood hazard, to afford
relief.
      2.   Variances shall only be issued upon:
         a.   Showing a good and sufficient cause;
         b.   A determination that failure to grant the variance would result
in exceptional hardship to the applicant; and
         c.   A determination that the granting of a variance will not result
in increased flood heights, additional threats to public safety, extraordinary
public expense, create nuisances, cause fraud on or victimization of the
public, or conflict with existing local laws or ordinances.
      3.   Any applicant to whom a variance is granted shall be given written
notice that the structure will be permitted to be built with the lowest floor
elevation below the base flood elevation, and that the cost of flood insurance
will be commensurate with the increased risk resulting from the reduced lowest
floor elevation.
   J.   Variances may be issued by the Morrison Board of Trustees for new
construction and substantial improvements and for other development necessary
for the conduct of a functionally dependent use provided that:
      1.   The criteria outlined in subsections A through I of this section are
met, and
      2.   The structure or other development is protected by methods that
minimize flood damages during the base flood and create no additional threats
to public safety.
(Ord. 407, 1-7-2014; amd. Ord. 552, 2-4-2025)
10-3-7-5: PENALTIES FOR NONCOMPLIANCE:
No structure or land shall hereafter be constructed, located, extended,
converted, or altered without full compliance with the terms of this chapter
and other applicable regulations. Violation of the provisions of this chapter
by failure to comply with any of its requirements (including violations of
conditions and safeguards established in connection with conditions) shall
constitute a misdemeanor.
Any person who violates this chapter or fails to comply with any of its
requirements shall upon conviction thereof be fined or imprisoned as provided
by title 1, chapter 4 of this code. Nothing herein contained shall prevent the
town of Morrison from taking such other lawful action as is necessary to
prevent or remedy any violation. (Ord. 407, 1-7-2014)
10-3-8: PROVISIONS FOR FLOOD HAZARD REDUCTION:
10-3-8-1: GENERAL STANDARDS:
In all special flood hazard areas the following provisions are required for all
new construction and substantial improvements:
   A.   All new construction or substantial improvements shall be designed (or
modified) and adequately anchored to prevent flotation, collapse or lateral
movement of the structure resulting from hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads,
including the effects of buoyancy;
   B.   All new construction or substantial improvements shall be constructed
by methods and practices that minimize flood damage;
   C.   All new construction or substantial improvements shall be constructed
with materials resistant to flood damage;
   D.   All new construction or substantial improvements shall be constructed
with electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing, and air conditioning equipment
and other service facilities that are designed and/or located so as to prevent
water from entering or accumulating within the components during conditions of
flooding;
   E.   All manufactured homes shall be installed using methods and practices
which minimize flood damage. For the purposes of this requirement, manufactured
homes must be elevated and anchored to resist flotation, collapse, or lateral
movement. Methods of anchoring may include, but are not limited to, use of over
the top or frame ties to ground anchors. This requirement is in addition to
applicable state and local anchoring requirements for resisting wind forces;
   F.   All new and replacement water supply systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters into the system;
   G.   New and replacement sanitary sewage systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters into the system and discharge
from the systems into floodwaters; and
   H.   On site waste disposal systems shall be located to avoid impairment to
them or contamination from them during flooding. (Ord. 407, 1-7-2014)
10-3-8-2: SPECIFIC STANDARDS:
In all special flood hazard areas where base flood elevation data has been
provided as set forth in sections
10-3-6-2,
10-3-7-2, and
10-3-8-7 of this chapter, the following provisions are required:
   A.   Residential Construction: New construction and substantial improvement
of any residential structure shall have the lowest floor (including basement),
electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing, and air conditioning equipment and
other service facilities (including ductwork), elevated to one foot (1') above
the base flood elevation. Upon completion of the structure, the elevation of
the lowest floor, including basement, shall be certified by a registered
Colorado professional engineer, architect, or land surveyor. Such certification
shall be submitted to the floodplain administrator.
   B.   Nonresidential Construction: With the exception of critical facilities,
outlined in section
10-3-8-8 of this chapter, new construction and substantial improvements of any
commercial, industrial, or other nonresidential structure shall either have the
lowest floor (including basement), electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing,
and air conditioning equipment and other service facilities (including
ductwork), elevated to one foot (1') above the base flood elevation or,
together with attendant utility and sanitary facilities, be designed so that at
one foot (1') above the base flood elevation the structure is watertight with
walls substantially impermeable to the passage of water and with structural
components having the capability of resisting hydrostatic and hydrodynamic
loads and effects of buoyancy.
A registered Colorado professional engineer or architect shall develop and/or
review structural design, specifications, and plans for the construction, and
shall certify that the design and methods of construction are in accordance
with accepted standards of practice as outlined in this subsection. Such
certification shall be maintained by the floodplain administrator, as provided
in section
10-3-7-2 of this chapter.
   C.   Enclosures: New construction and substantial improvements, with fully
enclosed areas below the lowest floor that are usable solely for parking of
vehicles, building access, or storage in an area other than a basement and
which are subject to flooding shall be designed to automatically equalize
hydrostatic flood forces on exterior walls by allowing for the entry and exit
of floodwaters. Designs for meeting this requirement must either be certified
by a registered Colorado professional engineer or architect or meet or exceed
the following minimum criteria:
      1.   A minimum of two (2) openings having a total net area of not less
than one square inch for every square foot of enclosed area subject to flooding
shall be provided.
      2.   The bottom of all openings shall be no higher than one foot (1')
above grade.
      3.   Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, valves, or other
coverings or devices provided that they permit the automatic entry and exit of
floodwaters.
   D.   Manufactured Homes: All manufactured homes that are placed or
substantially improved within zones A1-30, AH, and AE on the town of Morrison's
FIRM on sites: 1) outside of a manufactured home park or manufactured home
subdivision, 2) in a new manufactured home park or manufactured home
subdivision, 3) in an expansion to an existing manufactured home park or
manufactured home subdivision, or 4) in an existing manufactured home park or
manufactured home subdivision on which manufactured home has incurred
"substantial damage" as a result of a flood, be elevated on a permanent
foundation such that the lowest floor of the manufactured home, electrical,
heating, ventilation, plumbing, and air conditioning equipment and other
service facilities (including ductwork), are elevated to one foot (1') above
the base flood elevation and be securely anchored to an adequately anchored
foundation system to resist flotation, collapse, and lateral movement. All
manufactured homes placed or substantially improved on sites in an existing
manufactured home park within zones A1-30, AH and AE on the town of Morrison's
FIRM that are not subject to the provisions of the above paragraph, shall be
elevated so that either:
      1.   The lowest floor of the manufactured home, electrical, heating,
ventilation, plumbing, and air conditioning equipment and other service
facilities (including ductwork), are one foot (1') above the base flood
elevation, or
      2.   The manufactured home chassis is supported by reinforced piers or
other foundation elements of at least equivalent strength that are no less than
thirty six inches (36") in height above grade and be securely anchored to an
adequately anchored foundation system to resist flotation, collapse, and
lateral movement.
   E.   Recreational Vehicles: All recreational vehicles placed on sites within
zones A1-30, AH, and AE on the town of Morrison's FIRM must either:
      1.   Be on the site for fewer than one hundred eighty (180) consecutive
days,
      2.   Be fully licensed and ready for highway use, or
      3.   Meet the permit requirements of section
10-3-7-3 of this chapter, and the elevation and anchoring requirements for
"manufactured homes" in subsection D of this section. A recreational vehicle is
ready for highway use if it is on its wheels or jacking system, is attached to
the site only by quick disconnect type utilities and security devices, and has
no permanently attached additions.
   F.   Prior Approved Activities: Any activity for which a floodplain
development permit was issued by the town of Morrison or a CLOMR was issued by
FEMA prior to January 7, 2014, may be completed according to the standards in
place at the time of the permit or CLOMR issuance and will not be considered in
violation of this chapter if it meets such standards. (Ord. 407, 1-7-2014)
10-3-8-3: STANDARDS FOR AREAS OF SHALLOW FLOODING (AO/AH ZONES):
Located within the special flood hazard area established in section
10-3-6-2 of this chapter, are areas designated as shallow flooding. These areas
have special flood hazards associated with base flood depths of one to three
feet (3') where a clearly defined channel does not exist and where the path of
flooding is unpredictable and where velocity flow may be evident. Such flooding
is characterized by ponding or sheet flow; therefore, the following provisions
apply:
   A.   Residential Construction: All new construction and substantial
improvements of residential structures must have the lowest floor (including
basement), electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing, and air conditioning
equipment and other service facilities (including ductwork), elevated above the
highest adjacent grade at least one foot (1') above the depth number specified
in feet on the town of Morrison's FIRM (at least 3 feet if no depth number is
specified). Upon completion of the structure, the elevation of the lowest
floor, including basement, shall be certified by a registered Colorado
professional engineer, architect, or land surveyor. Such certification shall be
submitted to the floodplain administrator.
   B.   Nonresidential Construction: With the exception of critical facilities,
outlined in section
10-3-8-8 of this chapter, all new construction and substantial improvements of
nonresidential structures, must have the lowest floor (including basement),
electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing, and air conditioning equipment and
other service facilities (including ductwork), elevated above the highest
adjacent grade at least one foot (1') above the depth number specified in feet
on the town of Morrison's FIRM (at least 3 feet if no depth number is
specified), or together with attendant utility and sanitary facilities, be
designed so that the structure is watertight to at least one foot (1') above
the base flood level with walls substantially impermeable to the passage of
water and with structural components having the capability of resisting
hydrostatic and hydrodynamic loads of effects of buoyancy. A registered
Colorado professional engineer or architect shall submit a certification to the
floodplain administrator that the standards of this section, as proposed in
section
10-3-7-3 of this chapter, are satisfied.
Within zones AH or AO, adequate drainage paths around structures on slopes are
required to guide floodwaters around and away from proposed structures. (Ord.
407, 1-7-2014)
10-3-8-4: FLOODWAYS:
Floodways are administrative limits and tools used to regulate existing and
future floodplain development. The state of Colorado has adopted floodway
standards that are more stringent than the FEMA minimum standard (see
definition of "floodway (regulatory floodway)" in section
10-3-5 of this chapter). Located within special flood hazard area established
in section
 10-3-6-2 of this chapter, are areas designated as floodways. Since the
floodway is an extremely hazardous area due to the velocity of floodwaters
which carry debris, potential projectiles and erosion potential, the following
provisions shall apply:
   A.   Encroachments are prohibited, including fill, new construction,
substantial improvements and other development within the adopted regulatory
floodway unless it has been demonstrated through hydrologic and hydraulic
analyses performed by a licensed Colorado professional engineer and in
accordance with standard engineering practice that the proposed encroachment
would not result in any increase (requires a no rise certification) in flood
levels within the town of Morrison during the occurrence of the base flood
discharge.
   B.   If subsection A of this section is satisfied, all new construction and
substantial improvements shall comply with all applicable flood hazard
reduction provisions of this section
10-3-8.
   C.   Under the provisions of 44 CFR chapter 1, section 65.12, of the
national flood insurance regulations, the town of Morrison may permit
encroachments within the adopted regulatory floodway that would result in an
increase in base flood elevations, provided that the town of Morrison first
applies for a CLOMR and floodway revision through FEMA. (Ord. 407, 1-7-2014)
10-3-8-5: ALTERATION OF A WATERCOURSE:
For all proposed developments that alter a watercourse within a special flood
hazard area, the following standards apply:
   A.   Channelization and flow diversion projects shall appropriately consider
issues of sediment transport, erosion, deposition, and channel migration and
properly mitigate potential problems through the project as well as upstream
and downstream of any improvement activity. A detailed analysis of sediment
transport and overall channel stability should be considered, when appropriate,
to assist in determining the most appropriate design.
   B.   Channelization and flow diversion projects shall evaluate the residual
100-year floodplain.
   C.   Any channelization or other stream alteration activity proposed by a
project proponent must be evaluated for its impact on the regulatory floodplain
and be in compliance with all applicable federal, state and town of Morrison
floodplain rules, regulations and ordinances.
   D.   Any stream alteration activity shall be designed and sealed by a
registered Colorado professional engineer or certified professional
hydrologist.
   E.   All activities within the regulatory floodplain shall meet all
applicable federal, state and town of Morrison floodplain requirements and
regulations.
   F.   Within the regulatory floodway, stream alteration activities shall not
be constructed unless the project proponent demonstrates through a floodway
analysis and report, sealed by a registered Colorado professional engineer,
that there is not more than a 0.00 foot rise in the proposed conditions
compared to existing conditions floodway resulting from the project, otherwise
known as a no rise certification, unless the town of Morrison first applies for
a CLOMR and floodway revision in accordance with section
10-3-8-4 of this chapter.
   G.   Maintenance shall be required for any altered or relocated portions of
watercourses so that the flood carrying capacity is not diminished. (Ord. 407,
1-7-2014)
10-3-8-6: PROPERTIES REMOVED FROM THE FLOODPLAIN BY FILL:
A floodplain development permit shall not be issued for the construction of a
new structure or addition to an existing structure on a property removed from
the floodplain by the issuance of a FEMA letter of map revision based on fill
(LOMR-F), unless such new structure or addition complies with the following:
   A.   Residential Construction: The lowest floor (including basement),
electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing, and air conditioning equipment and
other service facilities (including ductwork), must be elevated to one foot
(1') above the base flood elevation that existed prior to the placement of
fill.
   B.   Nonresidential Construction: The lowest floor (including basement),
electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing, and air conditioning equipment and
other service facilities (including ductwork), must be elevated to one foot
(1') above the base flood elevation that existed prior to the placement of
fill, or together with attendant utility and sanitary facilities be designed so
that the structure or addition is watertight to at least one foot (1') above
the base flood level that existed prior to the placement of fill with walls
substantially impermeable to the passage of water and with structural
components having the capability of resisting hydrostatic and hydrodynamic
loads of effects of buoyancy. (Ord. 407, 1-7-2014)
10-3-8-7: STANDARDS FOR SUBDIVISION PROPOSALS:
   A.   All subdivision proposals including the placement of manufactured home
parks and manufactured home subdivisions shall be reasonably safe from
flooding. If a subdivision or other development proposal is in a flood prone
area, the proposal shall minimize flood damage.
   B.   All proposals for the development of subdivisions including the
placement of manufactured home parks and manufactured home subdivisions shall
meet floodplain development permit requirements of sections 10-3-6-3 and 10-3-
7-3 of this chapter; and the provisions of this section
10-3-8.
   C.   Base flood elevation data shall be generated for subdivision proposals
and other proposed development including the placement of manufactured home
parks and manufactured home subdivisions which is greater than fifty (50) lots
or five (5) acres, whichever is less, if not otherwise provided pursuant to
section
10-3-6-2 or
10-3-7-2 of this chapter.
   D.   All subdivision proposals including the placement of manufactured home
parks and manufactured home subdivisions shall have adequate drainage provided
to reduce exposure to flood hazards.
   E.   All subdivision proposals including the placement of manufactured home
parks and subdivisions shall have public utilities and facilities such as
sewer, gas, electrical and water systems located and constructed to minimize or
eliminate flood damage. (Ord. 407, 1-7-2014)
10-3-8-8: STANDARDS FOR CRITICAL FACILITIES:
A critical facility is a structure or related infrastructure, but not the land
on which it is situated, as specified in rule 6 of the rules and regulations
for regulatory floodplains in Colorado, that if flooded may result in
significant hazards to public health and safety or interrupt essential services
and operations for the community at any time before, during and after a flood.
   A.   Classification Of Critical Facilities: It is the responsibility of the
town of Morrison to identify and confirm that specific structures meet the
following criteria:
      1.   Critical facilities are classified under the following categories:
a) essential services; b) hazardous materials; c) at risk populations; and d)
vital to restoring normal services.
         a.   Essential services facilities include public safety, emergency
response, emergency medical, designated emergency shelters, communications,
public utility plant facilities, and transportation lifelines. These facilities
consist of:
            (1)   Public safety (police stations, fire and rescue stations,
emergency vehicle and equipment storage, and, emergency operation centers);
            (2)   Emergency medical (hospitals, ambulance service centers,
urgent care centers having emergency treatment functions, and nonambulatory
surgical structures but excluding clinics, doctor's offices, and nonurgent care
medical structures that do not provide these functions);
            (3)   Designated emergency shelters;
            (4)   Communications (main hubs for telephone, broadcasting
equipment for cable systems, satellite dish systems, cellular systems,
television, radio, and other emergency warning systems, but excluding towers,
poles, lines, cables, and conduits);
            (5)   Public utility plant facilities for generation and
distribution (hubs, treatment plants, substations and pumping stations for
water, power and gas, but not including towers, poles, power lines, buried
pipelines, transmission lines, distribution lines, and service lines); and
            (6)   Air transportation lifelines (airports [municipal and
larger], helicopter pads and structures serving emergency functions), and
associated infrastructure (aviation control towers, air traffic control
centers, and emergency equipment aircraft hangars).
Specific exemptions to this category include wastewater treatment plants
(WWTP), nonpotable water treatment and distribution systems, and hydroelectric
power generating plants and related appurtenances.
Public utility plant facilities may be exempted if it can be demonstrated to
the satisfaction of the board of trustees of the town of Morrison that the
facility is an element of a redundant system for which service will not be
interrupted during a flood. At a minimum, it shall be demonstrated that
redundant facilities are available (either owned by the same utility or
available through an intergovernmental agreement or other contract) and
connected, the alternative facilities are either located outside of the 100-
year floodplain or are compliant with the provisions of this section, and an
operations plan is in effect that states how redundant systems will provide
service to the affected area in the event of a flood. Evidence of ongoing
redundancy shall be provided to the board of trustees on an as needed basis
upon request.
         b.   Hazardous materials facilities include facilities that produce or
store highly volatile, flammable, explosive, toxic and/or water reactive
materials. These facilities may include:
            (1)   Chemical and pharmaceutical plants (chemical plant,
pharmaceutical manufacturing);
            (2)   Laboratories containing highly volatile, flammable,
explosive, toxic and/or water reactive materials;
            (3)   Refineries;
            (4)   Hazardous waste storage and disposal sites; and
            (5)   Aboveground gasoline or propane storage or sales centers.
Facilities shall be determined to be critical facilities if they produce or
store materials in excess of threshold limits. If the owner of a facility is
required by the occupational safety and health administration (OSHA) to keep a
material safety data sheet (MSDS) on file for any chemicals stored or used in
the workplace, and the chemical(s) is stored in quantities equal to or greater
than the threshold planning quantity (TPQ) for that chemical, then that
facility shall be considered to be a critical facility. The TPQ for these
chemicals is: either five hundred (500) pounds or the TPQ listed (whichever is
lower) for the three hundred fifty six (356) chemicals listed under 40 CFR
section 302 (2010), also known as extremely hazardous substances (EHS); or ten
thousand (10,000) pounds for any other chemical. This threshold is consistent
with the requirements for reportable chemicals established by the Colorado
department of health and environment. OSHA requirements for MSDS can be found
in 29 CFR section 1910 (2010). The environmental protection agency (EPA)
regulation "designation, reportable quantities, and notification", 40 CFR
section 302 (2010) and OSHA regulation "occupational safety and health
standards", 29 CFR section 1910 (2010) are incorporated herein by reference and
include the regulations in existence at the time of the enactment of this
chapter, but exclude later amendments to or editions of the regulations.
Specific exemptions to this category include:
   (A) Finished consumer products within retail centers and households
containing hazardous materials intended for household use, and agricultural
products intended for agricultural use.
   (B) Buildings and other structures containing hazardous materials for which
it can be demonstrated to the satisfaction of the town of Morrison by hazard
assessment and certification by a qualified professional (as determined by the
town of Morrison) that a release of the subject hazardous material does not
pose a major threat to the public.
   (C) Pharmaceutical sales, use, storage, and distribution centers that do not
manufacture pharmaceutical products.
These exemptions shall not apply to buildings or other structures that also
function as critical facilities under another category outlined in this
section.
         c.   At risk population facilities include medical care, congregate
care, and schools. These facilities consist of:
            (1)   Elder care (nursing homes);
            (2)   Congregate care serving twelve (12) or more individuals
(daycare and assisted living);
            (3)   Public and private schools (preschools, K-12 schools), before
school and after school care serving twelve (12) or more children.
         d.   Facilities vital to restoring normal services including
government operations. These facilities consist of:
            (1)   Essential government operations (public records, courts,
jails, building permitting and inspection services, community administration
and management, maintenance and equipment centers);
            (2)   Essential structures for public colleges and universities
(dormitories, offices, and classrooms only).
These facilities may be exempted if it is demonstrated to the board of trustees
that the facility is an element of a redundant system for which service will
not be interrupted during a flood. At a minimum, it shall be demonstrated that
redundant facilities are available (either owned by the same entity or
available through an intergovernmental agreement or other contract), the
alternative facilities are either located outside of the 100-year floodplain or
are compliant with this chapter, and an operations plan is in effect that
states how redundant facilities will provide service to the affected area in
the event of a flood. Evidence of ongoing redundancy shall be provided to the
board of trustees on an as needed basis upon request.
   B.   Protection For Critical Facilities: All new and substantially improved
critical facilities and new additions to critical facilities located within the
special flood hazard area shall be regulated to a higher standard than
structures not determined to be critical facilities. For the purposes of this
chapter, protection shall include one of the following:
      1.   Location outside the special flood hazard area; or
      2.   Elevation of the lowest floor or floodproofing of the structure,
together with attendant utility and sanitary facilities, to at least two feet
(2') above the base flood elevation.
   C.   Ingress And Egress For New Critical Facilities: New critical facilities
shall, when practicable as determined by the board of trustees, have continuous
noninundated access (ingress and egress for evacuation and emergency services)
during a 100-year flood event. (Ord. 407, 1-7-2014)
10-3-9: FEES:
All applications for a floodplain development permit shall be accompanied by an
application fee as determined by resolution of the board of trustees. In
addition, the applicant shall be responsible for reimbursing the town for any
additional costs necessary for review and inspection of the project. The
administrator may require a deposit of no more than five thousand dollars
($5,000.00) to cover these additional costs. (Ord. 407, 1-7-2014)
CHAPTER 4
[RESERVED]
CHAPTER 5
LAND DISTURBANCE REGULATIONS
SECTION:
10-5-1: Policy And Purpose
10-5-2: Definitions
10-5-3: Administrative Provisions
10-5-4: Standards And Technical Criteria
10-5-5: Erosion And Sediment Control Plan Procedures And Modifications
10-5-6: Applicant Responsibilities
10-5-7: Enforcement And Inspection
10-5-8: Bonding And Insurance
10-5-9: Violation; Penalty
10-5-1: POLICY AND PURPOSE:
   A.   The clearing, stripping and grading of land for nonagricultural uses
can cause accelerated, localized erosion rates with subsequent deposition and
damage to off-site properties and receiving drainageways. Erosion and
sedimentation are natural processes whose intensity, when increased by
development, can destroy the environmental, aesthetic and economic values of
other properties, streams and lakes. The purpose of a land disturbance permit
process is to reduce erosion and sedimentation.
   B.   Preparation and implementation of an erosion and sediment control plan
shall be a key requirement for a land disturbance permit and said plan shall be
prepared and reviewed in accordance with the criteria presented herein. This
regulation is deemed necessary to reduce the impact of development on the
community and surrounding area, to provide for planned and orderly use of land,
to protect the environment, and to promote the safety, public health,
convenience and general welfare of the community. (Ord. 195, 11-5-1986)
10-5-2: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this Chapter, certain terms and words are defined as
follows. Words used in the singular number include the plural, and words in the
plural include the singular; the word "shall" is mandatory and not directory;
words of one gender include the other.
   APPLICANT: A person, partnership, corporation, public agency or the assigns
of the above, requesting permission to engage in land disturbance.
   DEVELOPER: One who cause or creates development.
   DEVELOPMENT: Any manmade change to real property including, but not limited
to, buildings or other structures, streets, parking lots, mining, dredging,
filling, grading, paving or excavating.
   ENGINEER OR TOWN ENGINEER: That registered engineer designated by the Town
to act in the Town's behalf.
   EROSION: The wearing away of land surface by detachment and transportation
of soil or rock material through the action of moving water, wind, ice or
gravity. "Accelerated erosion" is the increased loss of the land surface that
occurs as a result of man's activities.
   EROSION AND SEDIMENT CONTROL PLAN: The plan required as part of an
application for a land disturbance permit. Such document illustrates grading
plans, and includes necessary land treatment measures, including construction
schedules of treatment installations which will minimize soil erosion and
sedimentation.
   EXCAVATION: Any act by which soil or rock is cut into, dug, quarried,
uncovered, removed, displaced, or relocated, including the conditions resulting
therefrom.
   GRADING: The practice of changing the ground level or slope. The term
includes any stripping, excavating, filling, stockpiling, or any combination
thereof, and the land in its excavated or filled condition.
   IMPERVIOUS SURFACE: Surfaces on or in real property where the rate of
infiltration of stormwater into the earth has been reduced by the works of man.
For purposes of this chapter, buildings, manmade structures, concrete, asphalt
or other hard surface driveways, patio areas, roofs, concrete or asphalt
sidewalks, parking lots or storage areas, and other bricked, oiled, macadam or
hard surfaced areas which impede passage of stormwaters into the earth's
surface are deemed to be impervious.
K: The soil erodibility factor used in the universal soil loss equation and is
a measure of the susceptibility of soil particles to detachment and transport
by rainfall and runoff.
   LAND DISTURBANCE: An activity involving the clearing, grading, transporting,
filling or other activity which causes land to be exposed to erosion.
   PERSON: A natural person, corporation, partnership, or other entity, public,
quasi-public or private.
   SEDIMENTATION: The process of subsidence and deposition of suspended matter
carried by water or other liquids.
   SEDIMENTS: Rock, sand, gravel, silt, soil or other material that is
transported by, suspended in or deposited by water or air or is accumulated in
beds by other natural agencies.
   SITE ANALYSIS PLAN: A plan which incorporates basic site information (such
as topography, soil types, vegetation, etc.) and defines the potential impact
of erosion on the site and adjacent properties. Preparation and review of the
site analysis plan is the first step in determining whether a comprehensive
erosion and sediment control plan is needed.
   STRIPPING: Any activity that removes or significantly disturbs the
vegetative surface cover, including clearing and grubbing operations.
   TOWN: The town of Morrison.
   TOWN ADMINISTRATOR: The person appointed to such position by the board of
trustees, or if none, the board of trustees.
   WEG OR WIND ERODIBILITY GROUP: A group of soils having the same potential
for soil blowing. The wind erodibility group enables prediction of the amount
of soil loss that results from wind action and is expressed in units from 1
(highly erodible) to 6 (low wind erosion potential).
   WATERCOURSE OR DRAINAGEWAY: A stream including intermittent streams usually
flowing in a particular direction, having a body or banks, and usually
discharging into some other stream or body of water. (Ord. 195, 11-5-1986; amd.
Ord. 420, 6-2-2015)
10-5-3: ADMINISTRATIVE PROVISIONS:
   A.   Applicability: Any person, firm, corporation or business, public,
quasi- public or private, proposing to construct buildings or other
improvements or facilities or develop or redevelop land within the town shall
be required to comply with the criteria and procedures specified in this
chapter. No person shall develop land or disturb land until such person has
obtained a land disturbance permit or has been exempted from the provisions of
this chapter. No construction or building permit shall be approved until the
requirements of this chapter have been complied with or such requirements have
been determined not to be applicable.
   B.   Administration And Appeals: The town administrator shall administer
this chapter. The town administrator may delegate to the town engineer or other
persons or agencies, responsibility for administration. Where it is alleged
that there is error or misinterpretation in any order, requirement, decision,
grant, or refusal made by the town administrator, the Board of Trustees shall
have the power to hear specific applications and may amend or change such
order, requirement, decision, grant or refusal so that it is in harmony with
the general purpose and intent of this chapter.
   C.   Exemptions: The following activities shall be exempt from this chapter
unless the town administrator determines that a particular hazard exists
justifying denial of and exemption in a particular case:
      1.   Agricultural use of land zoned agricultural.
      2.   Grading or an excavation below finished grade for basements,
footings, retaining walls or other structures on plots containing less than ten
thousand (10,000) square feet of impervious area unless otherwise required by
the building code.
      3.   Construction of a sidewalk or driveway authorized by a valid permit.
      4.   Removal of gravel, sand, dirt or topsoil as authorized by the town.
      5.   Installation of utility lines, underground telephone line, and
underground power lines under town auspices.
   D.   Administrative Review: The application for a land disturbance permit
shall be submitted to and reviewed by the town, and approval shall be granted
and the land disturbance permit issued if the application and activity is found
to be in compliance with the provisions of this chapter.
   E.   Application For Permit: Application for a land disturbance permit shall
include the following:
      1.   A site analysis plan which minimally incorporates requirements of
subsections
10-5-5A and B of this chapter. Based on this information, exemption may be
granted, or a comprehensive erosion and sediment control plan may be required.
      2.   Final construction plans and specifications, with supporting design
documentation, for all infrastructure improvements (such as road, water and
sewer lines and drainage facilities) to be constructed in addition to proposed
grading. Approval of said plans and specifications shall be a condition of
approval of the land disturbance permit. All appropriate supporting data shall
accompany submittal of the final construction plans and specifications or shall
have been previously approved.
   F.   Prohibited Activity: Permits shall not be issued where:
      1.   The proposed work would cause hazards to the public safety and
welfare; or
      2.   The work as proposed by the applicant will damage any public or
private property or interfere with any existing drainage course or irrigation
ditch in such a manner as to cause damage to any adjacent property or result in
the deposition of debris or sediment on any public way or into any waterway or
create an unreasonable hazard to persons or property; or
      3.   The land area for which grading is proposed is subject to geological
hazard to the extent that no reasonable amount of corrective work can eliminate
or sufficiently reduce settlement, slope, instability or any other such hazard
to persons or property; or
      4.   The land area for which the grading is proposed lies within the
designated floodplain of any stream or watercourse (not specifically designated
by the town as an area subject to flood hazard), unless a hydrologic report,
prepared by a professional engineer, is submitted certifying that the proposed
grading will have, in his opinion, no determined influence on the public
welfare or upon the total development of the watershed, and such conclusion is
accepted by the town.
   G.   Fees: All applications shall be accompanied by the following fee: one
hundred dollars ($100.00) plus a deposit, estimated by the town administrator,
sufficient to cover all costs incurred by the town in evaluating the
application. When final action is taken on the application or when it is
withdrawn, all unexpended or unobligated funds in the deposit, but not the one
hundred dollar ($100.00) fee, will be returned to the applicant. The town
administrator may request additional deposits from the applicant if it appears
at any time that the initial deposit will not be sufficient to cover the town's
expenses in evaluating the application. Failure to furnish any justifiable
additional deposit will be cause to deny the application. The fee of one
hundred dollars ($100.00) may be changed from time to time by resolution of the
board of trustees.
(Ord. 195, 11-5-1986; amd. Ord. 420, 6-2-2015; Ord. 552, 2-4-2025)
10-5-4: STANDARDS AND TECHNICAL CRITERIA:
   A.   Performance Standards: The general requirements for erosion control
work shall be as follows:
      1.   Any earth changes shall be conducted in such a manner so as to
effectively reduce accelerated soil erosion and resulting sedimentation and
should not exceed the limits of allowable erosion.
      2.   All earth changes shall be designed, constructed and completed in
such a manner so that the exposed area of any disturbed land shall be limited
to the shortest possible period of time.
      3.   Sediment caused by accelerated soil erosion shall be removed from
runoff water before such water leaves the site.
      4.   Any temporary or permanent facility designed and constructed for
conveyance of water around, through or from the earth change area shall be
designed to limit water flow to a nonerosive velocity.
      5.   Temporary soil erosion control facilities shall be removed and earth
change areas graded and stabilized with permanent soil erosion control measures
pursuant to approved plans and specifications. Permanent soil erosion control
measures for all slopes, channels, ditches or any disturbed land area shall be
completed within fifteen (15) calendar days after final grading or the final
earth change has been completed. When it is not possible to permanently
stabilize a disturbed area after an earth change has been completed or where
significant earth change has been completed or where significant earth change
activity ceases, temporary soil erosion control measures shall be implemented
within thirty (30) calendar days. All temporary soil erosion control measures
shall be maintained until permanent soil erosion control measures are
implemented.
   B.   Technical Criteria: Appendix 1 attached to the ordinance codified
herein on file in the office of the town clerk contains references providing
technical criteria and guidelines for preparation of an erosion and sediment
control plan. Said appendix 1 may be changed from time to time by resolution of
the board of trustees. (Ord. 195, 11-5-1986)
10-5-5: EROSION AND SEDIMENT CONTROL PLAN PROCEDURES AND MODIFICATIONS:
The steps in preparing an erosion and sediment control plan are as follows:
   A.   Information Collection: The following data, at a minimum, shall be
researched and compiled for the proposed site:
      1.   A vicinity map (1 inch to 1,000 feet or larger) indicating the site
location, boundaries and ownership as well as identifying adjacent properties
and ownerships.
      2.   A topographic map of the site (1 inch to 50 feet or larger) showing
existing topography at two foot (2') contour intervals.
      3.   A soils survey which describes the soils on the site including
slopes, hydrologic soil groups, soil types and erodibility factors ("K" and WEG
factors).
      4.   A vegetation survey which discusses the type and extent of existing
vegetation cover on sites where native vegetation will remain or be
reestablished.
      5.   Climatic data regarding precipitation and wind direction.
   B.   Site Analysis Plan Preparation: Combine topographic, soils and
vegetation information on a map to indicate critical areas. Proposed site
layout and topography should then be added to the map. Indicate points of
runoff outfall from the site and adjacent properties or receiving drainageways.
The site analysis plan shall be evaluated with respect to project size, amount
of grading, soil types and proximity to areas likely to be damaged by erosion
and sedimentation, as well as the following criteria:
CRITERIA FOR FINAL EROSION AND SEDIMENT PLAN SUBMITTAL
 
Control                                  Submittal Of Final Plan Required
Land slope 18%                           Yes
Soil erodibility factor (K) 0.37         Yes
Land slope 6% and K 0.24                 Yes
Site 500 feet from a watercourse or in a
floodplain designated by the corps of    Yes
engineers
Impervious area 10,000 square feet       Yes
Any combination of the above             Yes
 
The applicant shall discuss the site with respect to the above criteria in a
brief report submitted with the site analysis plan to the town. If the above
criteria are not applicable, the applicant shall indicate in a general fashion
how the site will be protected from erosion. If any or all of the above
criteria are applicable, then the applicant shall be required by the town to
prepare a comprehensive erosion and sediment control plan and shall proceed to
complete elements in subsections C and D of this section.
   C.   Refine Site Analysis Plan:
      1.   Consider modification to the preliminary site layout in order to
make the best fit between the site's natural characteristics and the proposed
land use; minimize earth change and disturbance of critical areas. Consider
stages implementation of site grading.
      2.   Obtain or develop a drainage plan for the site and coordinate design
of erosion and sediment control measures with proposed drainage facilities.
Illustrate how runoff volume, quality and velocity will be accommodated.
      3.   Analyze wind direction and velocities and illustrate how they will
be mitigated.
   D.   Prepare Final Erosion And Sediment Control Plan: The final erosion and
sediment control plan shall contain the following information, at a minimum:
      1.   Name, address, and telephone number of the landowner, developer, and
petitioner.
      2.   A timing schedule indicating the anticipated starting and completion
dates of the development's construction and sequence and the time of exposure
of each area prior to the completion of effective erosion and sediment control
measures.
      3.   Existing and proposed topography at a minimum of two foot (2')
contour intervals.
      4.   A statement of the surface area and quantity of excavation and fill
involved.
      5.   Location of any existing structures or natural features on or within
fifty feet (50') of the site boundary lines, as well as the location of any
proposed structures or development on the site.
      6.   Location of all temporary erosion and sediment control facilities.
      7.   Location of all permanent erosion and sediment control facilities,
including coordination with proposed drainage facilities.
      8.   Elevations, dimensions, location, extent and the slope of all
proposed grading (including building and driveway grades).
      9.   The estimated total cost of the required temporary and permanent
soil erosion control measures.
      10.   Plans of all drainage provisions, retaining walls, cribbing,
planting, erosion control measures, or other temporary or permanent soil
erosion control measures, to be constructed in connection with or as a part of
the proposed work. (Ord. 195, 11-5-1986)
      11.   Other information or data as may be reasonably required by the town
administrator such as a soil investigation report which shall include, but not
be limited to, data regarding the nature, distribution, and supporting ability
of existing soils and rock on the site. (Ord. 195, 11-5-1986; amd. Ord. 420, 6-
2-2015)
10-5-6: APPLICANT RESPONSIBILITIES:
   A.   Responsibilities: The applicant shall install and perform all erosion
and sediment control measures in accordance with the approved plan. All other
construction (i.e., roads, utilities, etc.) shall be completed according to the
approved final construction drawings and specifications. All erosion and
sediment control measures, both temporary and permanent, shall be maintained by
the applicant, unless otherwise agreed on by the town. Upon completion, as
built mylar reproducibles of all drawings shall be submitted to the town for
retention in their files. All drawings, reports, etc., shall be prepared by or
under the direction of a professional engineer licensed in Colorado. (Ord. 195,
11-5-1986)
   B.   Modification Of Approved Plans: All modifications of the approved plans
must be submitted to and approved by the town administrator. All necessary
sustaining reports shall be submitted with any proposal to modify the approved
plans. No work in connection with any proposed modification shall be permitted
without the approval of the town administrator. (Ord. 195, 11-5-1986; amd. Ord.
420, 6-2-2015)
   C.   Damage Control And Maintenance: During grading operations the applicant
shall be responsible for:
      1.   The prevention of damage to any public utilities or services within
the limits of grading and along any routes of travel of the equipment.
      2.   The prevention of damage to adjacent property. No person shall grade
on land so close to the property line as to endanger any adjoining public
street, sidewalk, alley or any public or private property without supporting
and protecting such property from settling, cracking or other damage which
might result. (Ord. 195, 11-5-1986)
      3.   The prompt removal of all soil, miscellaneous debris or other
materials applied, dumped or otherwise deposited on public streets, highways,
sidewalks, public thoroughfares or irrigation ditches during transit to and
from the construction site where such spillage constitutes a public nuisance or
hazard in the determination of the town administrator. (Ord. 195, 11-5-1986;
amd. Ord. 420, 6-2-2015)
   D.   Maintenance Of Permanent Erosion And Sediment Control Facilities:
Persons carrying out soil erosion and sediment control measures under this
chapter, and all subsequent owners of property concerning which such measures
have been taken, shall maintain all permanent erosion control measures,
retaining wall, structures, plantings and other protective devices.
      1.   Regular maintenance including mowing, sediment removal, repairs of
eroded areas, cleaning of inlets and outlets, debris removal and weed control
shall be performed by the property owner.
      2.   All erosion and sediment control facilities shall be inspected
following any heavy rainfall and any necessary emergency maintenance should be
completed as soon as possible thereafter.
      3.   In the event satisfactory maintenance is not performed, the town may
elect to maintain or repair the erosion and sediment control facilities and
charge the owner for all costs associated with the maintenance performed. (Ord.
195, 11-5-1986)
10-5-7: ENFORCEMENT AND INSPECTION:
   A.   Inspection; Approval:
      1.   The town administrator, through periodic inspections, shall be
responsible for determining whether the work covered by the land disturbance
permit is in conformance with the provisions herein and the applicable plans
and specifications. The town administrator may prohibit further work to be done
on the applicant's site if it is determined that the work does not comply with
the provisions of the approved plan. The town administrator may require
remedial work to be done to protect completed work or prevent damage. The town
administrator may enter at all reasonable times, in or upon any private or
public property upon which permitted work is in progress for the purpose of
inspecting and investigating conditions and practices that may be a violation
of this chapter.
      2.   Upon satisfactory execution of all approved grading plans and
receipt of a written statement (by a registered engineer) that the improvements
have been constructed according to plan, the town administrator shall approve
the certification of completion. If the town administrator finds any existing
conditions not as stated in any application, grading permit or approved plan,
he/she may refuse to approve further work until approval of a revised grading
plan, which will conform to the existing conditions, has been granted or the
variance has been corrected. (Ord. 195, 11-5-1986; amd. Ord. 420, 6-2-2015)
   B.   Compliance With Chapter Required For Occupancy: No certificate of
occupancy for any building shall be issued by the town unless the applicant for
said certificate shall have obtained a certification of compliance with all
grading plans and specifications and completion of all permanent soil erosion
control measures issued by the town.
   C.   Applicability Of Other Laws And Regulations: Nothing contained herein
relieves any person, corporation, firm or entity from the obligation to comply
with any applicable state or federal laws or regulations relating to water
quality or water quality standards. (Ord. 195, 11-5-1986)
10-5-8: BONDING AND INSURANCE:
   A.   Bond Requirement:
      1.   A land disturbance permit shall not be issued unless the permittee
shall first post with the town a bond executed by the landowner and a corporate
surety with authority to do business in this state as a surety, or such other
security as shall be satisfactory to the town.
      2.   The security shall be in a form approved by the town attorney,
payable to the town, and in the amount of the estimated total cost of all
temporary or permanent soil erosion control measures plus a twenty five percent
(25%) contingency. The total estimated cost shall be reviewed and approved by
the town. The bond shall include penalty provisions for failure to complete the
work on schedule as specified on the land disturbance permit. (Ord. 195, 11-5-
1986)
      3.   Every bond and instrument of credit shall include, and every cash
deposit shall be made, on the conditions that the permittee shall comply with
all of the provisions of this chapter and all of the terms and conditions of
the land disturbance permit, and shall complete all of the work contemplated
under the land disturbance permit within the time limit specified in the land
disturbance permit, or if no time limit is specified, within one year after the
date of the issuance of the land disturbance permit. The security shall not be
released until final inspection and approval by the town administrator.
   B.   Insurance Requirement: Every applicant, before commencing operations,
shall be insured to the extent of two hundred thousand dollars ($200,000.00)
per person, five hundred thousand dollars ($500,000.00) per occurrence, against
liability arising from production, activities or operations incidental thereto
conducted or carried on under or by virtue of any law, resolution or condition
imposed by this chapter, and such insurance shall be kept in full force and
effect during the period of such operations, including site rehabilitation. A
certificate indicating protection by such insurance shall be filed by the
applicant together with his/her application for permit. Such insurance shall
not be released until final inspection and approval has been completed by the
town administrator. (Ord. 195, 11-5-1986; amd. Ord. 420, 6-2-2015)
10-5-9: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
It shall be unlawful for any person to violate any of the provisions of this
chapter. Any person who violates a provision of this chapter shall be subject
to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. Each day that a violation persists shall be a separate
violation. The town may pursue any remedy available at law or equity to enforce
the provisions of this chapter, including implementation of corrective measures
if required. The town may also recover all costs of such corrective measures,
all court costs and attorney fees. Persons in violation of the provisions of
this chapter shall be liable for damages to off site properties and
drainageways which may occur as a result of failure to comply with this
chapter. (Ord. 195, 11-5-1986; amd. Ord. 261, 4-16-1996)
CHAPTER 6
STORM DRAINAGE REGULATIONS
SECTION:
10-6-1: Policy And Purpose
10-6-2: Definitions
10-6-3: General Administrative Provisions
10-6-4: Technical Criteria; Drainage Design
10-6-5: Rates And Charges
10-6-6: Violation; Penalty; Cost Recovery
10-6-1: POLICY AND PURPOSE:
   A.   Policy: There is hereby established a storm drainage utility. Due to
its general terrain and geographical location, the Town is particularly subject
to damage from storm waters which, from time to time, overflow from existing
water courses and drainage facilities. Presently existing storm drainage
facilities, as well as future storm drainage facilities, require continuous
operation, maintenance, renewal and replacement. Each owner of a lot or parcel
of real property within the Town to the extent that he makes use of, and is
served by, the Town's storm drainage facilities by contributing to those
facilities storm water runoff beyond that amount (both in terms of peak rates
and volumes) of storm water which would occur if that real property were
undeveloped in its natural state, should pay for the use and the availability
of use of such facilities.
   B.   Purpose: The Board further declares that this Chapter is enacted for
the following specific purposes:
      1.   To promote the general public health, safety and welfare by assuring
that the movement of emergency vehicles is not prohibited or inhibited during
storm or flooding periods and by minimizing storm and flood losses and
inconvenience and damage resulting from uncontrolled storm runoff in the Town.
      2.   To establish reasonable storm drainage utility service fees computed
on the basis of the use made of, and the service provided by, the storm
drainage facilities of the Town and to establish reasonable penalties for any
delinquencies.
      3.   To encourage and facilitate urban storm water management techniques,
including detention of storm runoff, minimization of the need to construct
storm drainage facilities, reduction of pollution and damage from sedimentation
and erosion, and the enhancement of the urban environment.
      4.   Notwithstanding the above, floods from runoff may occur which exceed
the capacity of storm drainage facilities constructed and maintained by funds
made available pursuant to this Chapter. This Chapter does not imply that
property subject to the fees and charges established herein will be free from
storm water flooding or flood damage. This Chapter shall not create any
liability on the part of the Town or any officer or employee thereof for any
flood damage.
      5.   To maintain a historic levels of quality, quantity and volume of
storm water discharge. (Ord. 183, 11-19-1985)
10-6-2: DEFINITIONS:
Words used in the present tense include the future; words used in the singular
number include the plural and words in the plural include the singular; the
word "shall" is mandatory and not directory. For the purposes of this Chapter,
certain terms and words are herewith defined as follows:
   5-YEAR STORM: A storm having a twenty percent (20%) chance of occurrence in
any given year.
   100-YEAR STORM: A storm having a one percent (1%) chance of occurrence in
any given year.
   DETENTION FACILITIES: Storm drainage facilities which control the release
rate of runoff so that runoff after development shall not exceed the runoff
from the same parcel of land in its natural state for the 5-year and 100-year
storms respectively.
   DEVELOPER: One who causes or creates development.
   DEVELOPMENT: Any manmade change to real property including, but not limited
to, buildings or other structures, streets, parking lots, mining, dredging,
filling, grading, paving, or excavating.
   DRAINAGE EASEMENT: A grant to the town of the right to control development
in a drainage right of way or an area subject to periodic flooding. It is also
an area deeded to the Town for the purpose of operation, repair, alteration and
maintenance of storm drainage facilities. Such easements shall be free from
development, alteration or use which would interfere with the flow of water or
act as a barrier for debris.
   ENGINEER OR TOWN ENGINEER: That registered engineer designated by the Town
to act in the Town's behalf.
   IMPERVIOUS SURFACE: Surfaces on or in real property where the rate of
infiltration of storm water into the earth has been reduced by the works of
man. For purposes of this Chapter, buildings, manmade structures, concrete,
asphalt or other hard surface driveways, patio areas, roofs, concrete or
asphalt sidewalks, parking lots or storage areas, and other bricked, oiled,
macadam or hard-surfaced areas which impede passage of storm waters into the
earth's surface are deemed to be impervious.
   MASTER DRAINAGE PLAN: A plan defining functional drainage basin and sub-
basin boundaries, containing criteria to be used in preliminary design of storm
drainage facilities, presenting the location and characteristics of all storm
drainage facilities including those presently existing and those expected to be
needed under ultimate development, providing preliminary designs of required
improvements, and including recommended staging of storm drainage facilities
construction, together with cost estimates.
   NATURAL STATE: Land with soil and vegetation conditions that existed prior
to any manmade activity on the land, defined as activity reducing the rate of
infiltration of storm water.
   PERSON: A natural person, corporation, partnership, or other entity.
   PROJECT COSTS: Those costs of administration, management, planning,
engineering, construction, inspection, reconstruction, alteration, right-of-way
acquisition, replacement, contingencies, fiscal, legal, and all other capital
costs of storm drainage facilities.
   RETENTION FACILITIES: Storm drainage facilities which retain all runoff on
the parcel such that no part thereof shall leave the parcel.
   RUNOFF: That part of snowfall, rainfall or other storm water which is not
absorbed, transpired, evaporated, or left in surface depressions, and which
then flows controlled or uncontrolled into a watercourse or body of water.
   SERVICE FEE: The storm drainage utility service fee as created by this
Chapter.
   STORM DRAINAGE FACILITIES: Any one or more of the various devices used in
the collection, treatment, or disposition of storm, flood or surface drainage
waters, including all manmade structures or natural watercourses for the
conveyance of runoff, such as detention areas, retention areas, berms, swales,
improved watercourses, channels, bridges, gulches, streams, gullies, flumes,
culverts, gutters, pumping stations, pipes, ditches, siphons, catch basins and
street facilities; all inlets; collection, drainage or disposal lines,
intercepting storm sewers; treatment facilities, outfall storm sewers, all
pumping stations and other equipment and appurtenances; all extensions,
improvements, remodeling, additions and alterations thereof; and any and all
rights or interests in such storm drainage facilities.
   TOWN: The town of Morrison.
   TOWN ADMINISTRATOR: Such official appointed by the board of trustees of the
town of Morrison.
   WATERCOURSE OR DRAINAGEWAY: A stream including intermittent streams usually
flowing in a particular direction, having a body or banks, and usually
discharging into some other stream or body of water. (Ord. 183, 11-19-1985;
amd. Ord. 420, 6-2-2015)
10-6-3: GENERAL ADMINISTRATIVE PROVISIONS:
   A.   Applicability: The owner of each and every lot or parcel of land within
the town containing an impervious surface shall hereby be subject to a storm
drainage utility service fee. Likewise any person, firm, corporation or
business proposing to construct buildings or develop or redevelop land within
the town shall be required to provide storm drainage facilities meeting the
requirements of this chapter and shall hereby be subject to a storm drainage
utility service fee. This service fee is deemed reasonable and is necessary to
pay for continuous operation, maintenance, renewal and replacement of storm
drainage facilities.
   B.   Administration: The town, through its board of trustees, town engineer,
town administrator and other persons or agencies it may designate, shall
administer this chapter.
   C.   Use Of Service Fee:
      1.   All fees and charges paid and collected pursuant to this chapter
shall be credited and deposited into a special enterprise fund, designated as
the storm drainage utility service fund, and shall not be transferred to any
other account of the town, except to pay for project costs and/or storm
drainage facilities operations and maintenance costs. No portion of this fee
shall be used for construction of private drainage improvements such as
culverts under private driveways.
      2.   The annual budget for the town shall include a proposed budget for
the operation and maintenance of storm drainage facilities for the ensuing
budget year. There shall also be included in the annual budget a statement of
all amounts presently in the storm drainage utility service fund, and an
estimate of anticipated revenues for the ensuing budget year.
   D.   Drainage Facilities Construction:
      1.   Facilities may be constructed by the town or, at the option of the
town, by the developer as a condition of approval of a subdivision, zoning or
rezoning, planned unit development, site plan or issuance of a building permit.
In the event the developer is to construct the facilities, the developer shall
be responsible for constructing and paying for all project costs for storm
drainage facilities within, or adjacent to his/her land according to the master
drainage plan and construction drawings as approved by the board of trustees or
an official designated by it.
      2.   Where coordinated drainage facilities serve more than one
subdivision, each developer shall pay a prorated cost for such drainage
facilities as determined by the board of trustees or an official designated by
it.
   E.   Administrative And Judicial Review: Any owner who disputes the amount
of the service charge made against his property may petition the town for a
hearing on a revision or modification of such charge or credit no later than
thirty (30) days after having been billed for such charge. Such petition for a
hearing shall be in writing, and the facts and figures submitted shall be
submitted as sworn statements at a hearing scheduled by the town. The hearing
shall take place within the town, and notice thereof and the proceedings shall
otherwise be in accordance with rules and regulations issued by the town and
approved by town board resolution. The town shall make a final decision and may
confirm or modify such charge or determination in accordance with the facts
submitted. Such decision by the town shall be in writing and notice thereof
shall be mailed to or served upon the petitioner within ten (10) days from the
date of the town's action. Service by certified mail, return receipt requested,
shall be conclusive evidence of notice for the purpose of this chapter. Such
action shall be considered a final order of the town.
(Ord. 183, 11-19-1985; amd. Ord. 420, 6-2-2015; Ord. 552, 2-4-2025)
10-6-4: TECHNICAL CRITERIA; DRAINAGE DESIGN:
Drainage design shall take into consideration two (2) separate storms: the
initial storm and the major storm. Historic (natural state) and developed
runoffs shall be determined for both storms for the proposed development site,
including the entire basin intercepted by the site. All drainage design shall
be completed in accordance with the guidelines and criteria of the Denver Urban
Storm Drainage Criteria Manual.
   A.   Storm Frequency:
      1.   Initial Storm: The initial storm shall be considered the 5-year
storm. The drainage system for the initial storm is to be designed to minimize
inconvenience, protect against minor damage and reduce maintenance costs.
      2.   Major Storm: The major storm shall be considered the 100-year storm.
The drainage system for the major storm shall be designed to convey flows in
excess of the initial drainage system capacity safely and efficiently to the
receiving outfall drainageway. The major drainage system shall be designed to
protect against loss of life or serious, substantial property damage as a
result of a major storm.
   B.   Runoff Computations: Both the initial and major storm runoff quantities
shall be computed using the Colorado urban hydrograph procedure (CUHP) for
basins larger than one hundred sixty (160) acres. Hydrologic modeling
techniques other than CUHP must be approved by the Town. For drainage basins
less than one hundred sixty (160) acres, the rational method may be used.
Runoff computations shall be completed in accordance with the Urban Storm
Drainage Criteria Manual procedures.
   C.   Off-Site Flows:
      1.   Flows entering the proposed development from outside the property
are off-site flows. The off-site storm runoff for both the initial and major
storms shall be determined and included in the drainage system design.
Available drainage reports for off-site developed areas affecting the property
shall be reviewed and considered in the drainage system planning and design.
      2.   Similarly, drainage runoff which exits a proposed development must
be addressed. Generally, the owner of upper lands has an easement over lower
lands for drainage of surface waters and natural drainage conditions can be
altered by an upper proprietor; provided, that the water is not sent down in a
manner or quantity to do more harm than formerly.
   D.   Irrigation Ditches: Irrigation ditches frequently intercept natural
drainage. For the purposes of routing the initial and major storms, irrigation
ditches are to be assumed flowing full at all sections, and to not intercept
any storm drainage. Wherever possible, storm waters are to be diverted from
irrigation ditches. The Town may require that special flow separation
structures be designed where major drainageways or significant storm flows are
intercepted by an irrigation ditch.
   E.   Hydraulic Criteria:
      1.   The preliminary and final design reports shall be consistent with
the hydraulic design criteria specified in the Urban Storm Drainage Criteria
Manual, including but not limited to:
         a.   Sewers, inlets and manholes;
         b.   Storm runoff in streets;
         c.   Open channels;
         d.   Culverts; and
         e.   Energy dissipators.
      2.   Developments which impact a flood hazard area must conform with the
requirements of Chapter 3 as amended, of this Title.
   F.   Detention Facilities: Provisions for detention of storm water is
intended to reduce the impact of development upon the peak rate, quality and
volume of discharge of the major drainage basin. The release rate of storm
water runoff from proposed development in a functional drainage basin shall not
exceed the runoff from the same land in its natural state for the 5-year and
100-year storm respectively. Where the Town determines that adverse water
quality impact from a proposed development is likely, the Town may require the
design and implementation of satisfactory water quality control measures in
addition to detention. Large detention ponds or existing ponds which may be
utilized for detention may be classified as reservoirs. These ponds must
conform to the "Manual of Rules and Regulations for Plans and Specifications of
Reservoirs", State of Colorado.
      1.   Construction Criteria:
         Minimum turf slope 2%
         Minimum pavement grade (parking areas) 0.75%
         Embankment side slopes:
            grassed - no steeper than 4:1
            protected - no steeper than 2.5:1;
         Minimum freeboard at H100 = 1.0'
            = 0.25' for parking lots
         Outlet pipe diameter = 15" minimum with orifice control if required
         Trash rack required at release structure, if orifice or pipe
vInstallation of grates where required by Town.
      2.   Release Structures: Detailed hydraulic calculations shall be
provided for routing the 5-year and 100-year storms through the detention area.
The design of the release structure shall be approved by the Town Engineer.
      3.   Excess Storm Water Passage: The detention area shall be so designed
to provide an emergency spillway or route to safely pass the maximum peak
discharge for the 100-year storm, assuming the primary release structure is
inoperative and the upstream tributary watershed is fully developed to current
zoning or current development, whichever provides the greater runoff. No
buildings or structures shall be constructed in the path of such excess storm
water passage, and one foot (1') minimum freeboard shall be provided between
the computed water surface elevations and the first floor elevation of any
building or structure.
      4.   Maintenance Provisions: The intent of the detention area
requirements specified herein is to provide storm water management for the
reduction of property damage and human suffering, to minimize the hazards of
personal injury and loss of life due to flooding and to minimize the
maintenance and operation requirements for detention facilities and to maintain
the quality of drainage. The Town shall provide for maintenance and operation
of storm drainage facilities, provided there are adequate public easements
within which maintenance and operation can be done and provided all design,
construction and maintenance criteria of the Town are followed.
   G.   Easements And Rights Of Way:
      1.   The developer shall dedicate adequate easements for the purpose of
access to operation, repair, alteration and maintenance of the storm drainage
system. These easements shall cover the storm water pipelines, detention area
including outlet structures and berm and other parts of the storm drainage
system which the Town deems shall be granted to the Town.
      2.   All drainage easements shall include covenants stating that no
buildings, fills, excavations, structures, fences, trees or other alterations
which could interfere with the flow of water or operation, repair and
maintenance shall be constructed within said easement without the express
written consent of the Town.
   H.   As-Built Drainage Plans:
      1.   A professional engineer approved by the Town and retained by the
developer shall inspect the construction of the improvements for the purpose of
determining conformance with the approved drainage plan. All costs and fees of
this shall be chargeable to the developer. This inspection shall include
verification that the following conform reasonably to the drainage plan:
         Finished floor elevations;
         Sizes, grades, locations, and elevations of drainage structures,
channels, pipes, etc.;
         Location of basin boundaries;
         Detention pond volumes;
         Facilities appear to be constructed in a workmanlike manner and
functional, and
         Adequate access for maintenance provided.
      2.   Any significant deviations from the approved drainage plan shall be
annotated on the as-built plans and referred to the Town for appropriate
action. The approved as-built plans, submitted on reproducible mylars and
covering all relevant drainage improvements, must be on file before a
certificate of occupancy will be issued.
      3.   The engineer shall include the following statement on the as-built
plans:
I hereby declare that: I have performed a field review of the constructed
drainage facilities on this plan. The facilities conform to the approved
drainage plan, except as otherwise noted and have been constructed in a
workmanlike manner, and are adequate for the intended purpose.
                                                   
Registered P.E., State of Colorado
No.                     
(Ord. 183, 11-19-1985)
10-6-5: RATES AND CHARGES:
   A.   Establishment Of Service Fee:
      1.   There is hereby imposed on the owner of each and every lot or parcel
of land within the Town containing an impervious surface, a storm drainage
utility service fee. Such fee shall be based on the contribution made by said
lot or parcel to the storm drainage facilities maintained by the Town, as
determined by the amount of impervious surface, as defined herein.
      2.   All highways, streets, roadways, sidewalks, bike paths and other
public rights of way shall be considered part of the storm drainage facilities
and, therefore, shall be exempt from all storm drainage utility service fees
imposed by this Chapter.
   B.   Basis For Fee: The basis for the amount of the charge is the extent to
which each parcel of land within the Town makes use of the storm drainage
facilities, such use to be defined as the runoff from the parcel's impervious
surfaces. The Town shall determine the number of square feet, using the
definition of impervious surface set forth herein, by any one of or combination
of the following methods:
      1.   On-site or aerial photograph measurements made by the Town of the
impervious surface in or on such real property.
      2.   Computation of the impervious surface using the dimensions of the
impervious surfaces in or on the real property which are set forth and
contained in the records of the Town.
      3.   Computation of the impervious surfaces using the information and
data contained in the records of the office of the Assessor of Jefferson County
which set forth certain characteristics of the improvements of such real
property such as the sum of the living space above the basement level in all
buildings on the real property, the number of garages, the area of the real
property, the number of garage spaces, the Assessor's use code, and the
Assessor's class code, hereinafter referred to as "Assessor's characteristics,"
of the improvements of such real property and actual measurements made by the
Town, or on its behalf, of impervious surfaces in or on real properties whose
Assessor's characteristics are similar to those Assessor's characteristics of
the real property for which the estimation, calculation and computation is
made. The data provided by the Assessor's characteristics shall be modified as
necessary by the Town with a correction factor determined by the Town to
establish a more direct correlation between actual impervious surface and the
data in the Assessor's records.
   C.   Fee Schedule: The drainage utility service fee shall be an annual
charge and shall be paid upon billing by the Town, in accordance with a
schedule established by Town Board resolution. The annual service charge shall
be determined by applying the following rate schedule:
   1985 through 1986   0 cent per hundred square feet of impervious area
Notwithstanding the rates herein, the Town may amend said rates, from time to
time, by resolution. (Ord. 183, 11-19-1985)
10-6-6: VIOLATION; PENALTY; COST RECOVERY:
It shall be unlawful for any person to violate any of the provisions of this
Chapter. Any person who violates a provision of this Chapter shall be subject
to penalty as provided in Section
1-4-1 of this Code. In the event any owner or owners of any lot, parcel of
land, or any real property within the legal boundaries of the Town shall
neglect, fail or refuse to pay the charge or fees fixed by this Chapter, the
Town may pursue any remedy available at law or equity to enforce and collect
the fee or charge. The Town may also recover, in addition to service fees due,
all court costs, attorneys' fees and interest on the amount owing. In the event
of a violation consisting of other than failure to pay charges or fees, the
Town may also seek any available legal or equitable remedy. (Ord. 183, 11-19-
1985; amd. Ord. 261, 4-16-1996)
CHAPTER 7
VESTED PROPERTY RIGHTS
SECTION:
10-7-1: Purpose
10-7-2: Definitions
10-7-3: Application For Site Specific Development Plan Approval
10-7-4: Notice And Hearing
10-7-5: Approval And Notice Of Approval
10-7-6: Period Of Vesting Extensions And Amendments
10-7-7: Other Provisions Unaffected
10-7-8: Limitation
10-7-9: Costs
10-7-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this Chapter is to provide the procedures necessary to implement
the provisions of article 68 of title 24, Colorado Revised Statutes as amended,
which article establishes a vested property right to undertake and complete
development and use of real property under the terms and conditions of a site
specific development plan approved in accordance with this Chapter. (Ord. 297,
1-18-2000)
10-7-2: DEFINITIONS:
   APPLICATION: Submission to the Town of Morrison of substantially complete
forms, documents and supporting materials required by the Town for approval of
a site specific development plan.
   COMPLETION OF A DEVELOPMENT: A development has been substantially
constructed in accordance with all applicable approved plans, codes and
regulations and that any required public improvements have been inspected and
approved.
   SITE SPECIFIC DEVELOPMENT PLAN: Means only the following:
   A.   A final subdivision plat approved by the Town of Morrison in accordance
with applicable regulations except that no final architectural plans or final
construction drawings and related documents specifying materials and methods
for construction of improvements shall be required as a condition of approval
to create a vested property right.
   B.   A final planned unit development plan approved by the Town of Morrison
in accordance with applicable regulations except that no final architectural
plans or final construction drawings and related documents specifying materials
and methods for construction of improvements shall be required as a condition
of approval to create a vested property right.
   C.   A site development plan approved by the Town of Morrison in accordance
with applicable regulations except that no final architectural plans or final
construction drawings and related documents specifying materials and methods
for construction of improvements shall be required as a condition of approval
to create a vested property right.
   D.   A formal agreement with a property owner that designates an approval
procedure other than as specified above to serve as a site specific development
plan approval for a specific project.
   VESTED PROPERTY RIGHT: The right to undertake and complete the development
and use of property under the terms and conditions of a site specific
development plan. (Ord. 297, 1-18-2000)
10-7-3: APPLICATION FOR SITE SPECIFIC DEVELOPMENT PLAN APPROVAL:
In order to create a vested property right upon approval of a site specific
development plan, an applicant must specifically request in writing to the Town
that such approval create a vested property right not less than thirty (30)
days prior to the date such site specific development plan is to be considered.
Failure to request such an approval in writing renders the approved plan, plat
or agreement not a "site specific development plan" and no vested property
right shall be deemed to have been created. (Ord. 297, 1-18-2000)
10-7-4: NOTICE AND HEARING:
No site specific development plan shall be approved until after a public
hearing by the Board of Trustees, preceded by written notice of such hearing.
The notice shall be published at the time and in the manner required by
Colorado Revised Statutes section 31-23-304, as amended, for zoning regulations
and may be combined with any other required notices. At such hearing, owners of
the property described in the site specific development plan, their
representatives and citizens shall have an opportunity to be heard. (Ord. 297,
1-18-2000)
10-7-5: APPROVAL AND NOTICE OF APPROVAL:
   A.   A site specific development plan shall be deemed approved, or
conditionally approved, upon the effective date of the Board of Trustees'
action relating thereto. In approving such plan, the Board of Trustees may
attach such terms and conditions as may be reasonably necessary to protect the
public health, safety and welfare. Failure to abide by such terms and
conditions will result in termination of any vested property right, after
notice and hearing.
   B.   Each map, plat, site plan or agreement constituting a site specific
development plan shall contain the following language: "Approval of this plan
creates a Vested Property Right pursuant to Section 24-68-103, Colorado Revised
Statutes, as amended", and shall state the terms and conditions of such
approval. In addition, a notice describing generally the type and intensity of
use approved, the specific parcel or parcels of property affected and stating
that a vested property right has been created shall be published once, not more
than fourteen (14) days after approval of the site specific development plan,
in a newspaper of general circulation within the Town. (Ord. 297, 1-18-2000)
10-7-6: PERIOD OF VESTING EXTENSIONS AND AMENDMENTS:
   A.   Unless otherwise specifically granted by the Board of Trustees, any
vested property right created under this Chapter shall remain vested for a
period of three (3) years. In the event a development has not been completed in
accordance with the approved "site specific development plan" within the
approved term of the vested property right and any approved extensions, the
vested property right shall terminate and the Town may require, upon notice and
hearing, that the "site specific development plan" be modified to conform with
current laws and regulations. Any dedication shall not be effected by the
termination of a vested property right.
   B.   A vested property right may be extended by the Board of Trustees, in
its discretion, up to three (3) years from the date of its original expiration.
In determining whether to grant an extension, the Board of Trustees may
consider, among other relevant factors, whether the landowner has undertaken
the development during the original term and the progress thereof, and the
likelihood that the landowner will complete the development during the
requested extension period. Any request for an extension shall be submitted by
the landowner to the Board of Trustees in writing at least sixty (60) days
prior to the date of expiration of the vested property right. Failure to submit
a written request within the specified time period shall cause forfeiture of
any right to request extension of the vested property right. Upon receipt of a
request for extension, the Board of Trustees shall hold a public hearing upon
published notice for the purpose of approving, conditionally approving, or
denying the requested extension.
   C.   For purposes of duration of a vested property right, any amendment to a
site specific development plan shall relate back to the date of approval of the
site specific development plan and shall not extend a vested property right,
unless the Board of Trustees specifically finds to the contrary and
incorporates such findings in its approval of the amendment. (Ord. 297, 1-18-
2000)
10-7-7: OTHER PROVISIONS UNAFFECTED:
Approval of a vested property right shall not preclude the application of, nor
constitute a waiver or exemption from, any other Morrison Code provision or
regulation applicable to the development and use of property within the Town.
(Ord. 297, 1-18-2000)
10-7-8: LIMITATION:
Nothing in this Section is intended to create a vested property right, but only
to implement the provisions of article 68 of title 24, Colorado Revised
Statutes, as amended. In the event of the repeal of said article, this Chapter
shall be deemed to be repealed and the provisions hereof no longer effective.
(Ord. 297, 1-18-2000)
10-7-9: COSTS:
In addition to any other fees and costs imposed by regulation or ordinance of
the Town, the applicant for approval of a site specific development plan shall
pay all costs and expenses of the Town as a result of review, processing and
final action on such plan, including, without limitation, all consultant and
staff fees and expenses, and notice, publication and recording fees. The Board
of Trustees may, by resolution, adopt a schedule of such fees based upon the
size and nature of use of the area subject to the plan. (Ord. 297, 1-18-2000)
MORRISON ORD. LIST
   ORDINANCE   
    NUMBER   TITLE   CHAPTER   SECTION   AMENDED BY   REP. BY   SUBJECT
      MORRISON, COLORADO ORD. LIST 1
   ORDINANCE   
    NUMBER   TITLE   CHAPTER   SECTION   AMENDED BY   REP. BY   SUBJECT
   1932 CODE                  1932 CODE OF MORRISON   
         ---                  History of Town   
         ---                  Bd of Trustees, Rules of Order   
         1               139   Fiscal Year; Finance Tax   
         2               190   Officers   
         3               190   Town Warrants   
         4               190   Town Depository   
         5               221                   Cruelty to Animals   
         6               63   Buildings   
         7               139   Children; Curfew, Offenses   
         8               175   Explosives & Infl. Liquids   
         9               139   Fire Department   
         10                  Health Dept.   
         11               137   Licenses   
         12                  Offenses   
         13               125   Police Dept.   
         14               192   Pound   
         15               139   Prohibition   
         16                  Sidewalks   
         17                  Streets   
         18               73   Traffic   
         19               124   Water   
         20               139   Aircraft   
         21               S   Repealing & Saving Clause   
         22               S   Adoption & Publ Ordinances   
         29               S 40   Electricity Franchise   
         ---                  Streets   
         ---               S   Width Mt. Vernon Street   
         ---               S   Street Vacation   
         44                S   Row Acquisition   
         10               142   Telephone   
         27               S   Water Election   
         28               S   Water Bonds   
         38               S   Water Bonds   
1932 CODE INCLUDED ALL OF THE ABOVE LISTED ORDINANCES
         *40               Ord. 1-1948   Electricity   
         *44               S   Row Acquisition   
         *46               S   Annexation   
         47               S   Water Extension Bonds   
         48 (1-1948)               S   Electricity Franchise   
         49               137   License Fees   
         50   4   1   3         Offenses   
         51               137   Business Licenses   
         52               137   Business Licenses   
         53                  Water Regs.   
         54               S   Budget   
         55               S   Franchise   
         56               S   Tax on Colo. Central Power Co.   
         57               S   Budget   
         58               S   Water Extension Bond   
         59               S   Bond Issuance   
         60               137   License Fee, Cabaret   
         61               130   Zoning Classification   
         62               S   Franchise   
         63               90   Building Code   
         64               S   Budget   
         65               169   Planning Commission   
         66               S   Bond Issuance   
         67               90   Building Permit Fees   
         68               75   Parking Zone   
         69               S   Budget
         70   1   5   5         Social Security Benefits   
         71               S   Annexation   
         72               S   Budget   
         73               81   Traffic Code   
         74               S   Budget   
         75   6   2   1         Parking Zones   
         76               137   License Fees   
         77               S   Budget   
         78               S   Detaching Real Property   
         79                  Water   
         80               121   Zoning   
         81               115   Model Traffic Code   
         82               S   Zoning Map   
         83               S   Sale of Real Property   
         84                  Mobile Home   
         85               S   Budget   
         86   5   1   1   97      Abandonment Of Vehicles   
         87               102   Building Code   
         88                  Water Distribution   
         89               S   Annexation   
         90                  Electrical Code   
         91               S   Budget   
         92               106   Animal Control   
         93               S   Budget   
      94   1   8            Municipal Ct    
         #I   1   8   1         Municipal Ct Created   
         II   1   8   2         Appropriation   
         III   1   8   3         Municipal Judge Appmt   
         IV   1   8   4         Acting Mun. Judge   
         V   1   8   5             Salary   
         VI   1   8   6         Court Clerk   
         VII   1   8   7         Bond   
         VIII   1   8   8         Juris. & Power of Ct.   
         IX   1   8   9         Powers & Procedures   
         X   1   8   10         Removal Of Mun. Judge   
         XI   1   8   11         Fines & Costs   
         XII   1   8   12         Sessions of Court   
         XIII               S   Savings Clause   
      95   4   1   1         Disorderly Offense; Assault   
      96               S   Franchise    
      97   5   1   1         Abandonment Vehicles   
      98               S   Budget   
      99   7   1   1         Tree Limbs Overhanging   
      100               115   Traffic Code   
      101                  Water Distr. Fees   
      102               175   Building Code   
      103               S   Vacation   
      104               117   Veh. Weight Restriction   
      105               S   Budget   
      106               Repealing Only   
      107               145   Sales Tax   
      108               S   Water bonds   
      109               S   Budget   
      110               145   Sales Tax   
      111               145   Sales Tax   
      112               115   Model Traffic Code   
      113               S   Budget   
      114   5   2   1-5         Noises Prohibited   
      115               132   Model Traffic Code   
      116               S   Annexation   
      117   6   3   1-4         Veh. Weight Restrictions   
      118               S   Budget   
      120               S   Budget   
      121               130   Zoning   
      122               S   Budget   
      123               138   Flood Plain   
      124               128   Water Regs.   
      125                  Police Dept   
      126               S   Vacating Street   
      127               132   Model Traffic Code   
      128               171   Water Regs.   
      129               S   Budget   
      130   10   1            Zoning   
       Art.1                  Gen. Provisions   
       Art. 2                  Gen. Dist. Zoning Regs.   
       Art. 3                  Special Review   
       Art. 4                  Supplementary Provisions   
       Art. 5                  Off-Street Park & Loading   
       Art. 6                  Board Of Adjustment   
       Art. 7                  Outdoor Signs   
       Art. 8                  Nonconform. Uses,Lots,Signs   
       Art. 9                  Amendments   
       Art. 10                  Administration Enforcement   
       Art. 11                  Planned Unit Development   
       Art. 12                  Definitions   
      131               S   Appropriation   
      132   6   1   1-5         Model Traffic Code   
      133                  Colo. Model Energy Code   
      134                  Police Department   
      135               S   Budget   
      136               S   Appropriation   
      137               191   Business License   
      138               151   Flood Hazard   
      139               Repealing Only   
      140               S   Appropriation   
      141   9   1   4         Building Permit Fees   
      142               S   Business Occupation Tax   
      143               S   Water Bonds   
      *144               S   Budget   
      145               188   Sales Tax   
      146   7   3   1-4         Mt. Falcon Park   
      147               189   Use Tax   
      148               S   Water contract   
      149               S   Appropriation   
      150               189   Use tax   
      151   10   3            Flood Plain Dist. Regs   
       #1                  Statutory Authorization   
       2                  Definitions   
       3                  General Provisions   
       4                  Administration   
       5                  Provs. Flood Hazard Reduc.   
       6               S   Enactment   
            7               S   Saving Clause   
      152               S   Water Bonds   
      153               S   Appropriation   
      154               S   Revenue Bonds   
      155               S   Annexation   
      156               S   Appropriation   
      157               S   Annexation   
      158               S   Zoning Map   
      159                  Commercial & Office Dist.   
       #I                  Permitted Uses   
       II                  Limit.External Effects of Use   
       III                  Permitted structures   
       IV                  Signs   
       V                  Off-Street Parking   
       VI                  Off-Street Loading   
       VII                  Screening Provisions   
      160               S   Annexation   
      161               S   Zone Map Change   
      162               185   Emergency Telephone Serv. Tax   
      163 Exh. A                  Mixed Use-Commercial District   
       #I                  Permitted Uses   
       II                  Limit External Effects of Use   
       III                   Permitted Structures   
       IV                  Signs   
       V                  Off-Street Parking   
       VI                  Off-Street Loading   
       VII                  Screening Provisions   
    Exhibit B                  Mixed Use Office District   
       I                  Permitted Uses   
       II                  Limit External Effects of Use   
       III                  Permitted Structures   
       IV                  Signs   
       V                  Off-Street Parking   
       VI                  Off-Street Loading   
      164               S   Annexation   
      165               S   Rezoning   
      166               S   Annexation   
      167               S   Vacating Street   
      168               S   Appropriation   
      169                  Planning Commission   
       #1                  Created   
       2                  Adopt Rules & Procedures   
       3                  Meetings   
       4                  Chairman; Vice-chairman   
       5                  Authority   
       6                  Adopt Budget   
       7                  Powers & Duties   
      170         (HOLD)         Subdivision Regs   
      171                  Water Regulations   
       #1                  General; Definitions   
       2                  Administrative Provisions   
       3                  Service Connections   
       4                  Extension Policies   
       5                  Rates & Charges   
       6                  Penalties & Severance   
      172                  Sewer System   
       #1                  General; Definitions   
       2                  Administrative Provisions   
       3                  Service Connections   
       4                  Extension Policies   
       5                  Rates & Charges   
       6                  Applicability & Severability   
         
      173               S   Property Lease   
      174               S   Sale Contract   
      175                  Codes Adopted   
       #1                  Title   
       2                  Codes Adopted By Ref.   
       3                  Amdments Bldg. Code   
       4                  Amdments Mechanical Code   
       5                  Amdments Plumbing Code   
       6                  Amdments Fire Code   
       7                  Amdments Electrical Code   
       8                  Amdments Energy Code   
       9                  Amdments Abate. Dang. Bldg.   
       10                  Amdments Bldg Code Standards   
       11               S   Repeal Prev. Ord.   
       12                  Penalties   
      176                  alternates Bd of Adjustment   
      177                  Terms; Mayor & Bd. of Trustees   
      178               S   Vacating Right of Way   
      179                  Town Manager Position Created   
      180               S   Appropriation   
      181                  Site Develop. Plan Review   
       Art.1                  General Provisions   
       #1                  Title   
       2                  Purposes   
       3                  General Provisions   
       4                  Compliance   
       5                  Concurrent Submission   
       Art. 2                  Site Development Standards   
       1                  General Standards   
       2                  Planning Standards   
       3                  Specific Standards   
       Art. 3                  Administration & Enforcement   
       1                  General   
       2                  Plan Approval   
       3                  Improve. Proh.Prior Bldg Permit   
       4                  Plan Comm. Duties   
       5                  Appeals Plan. Comm. Decisions   
       6                  Enforcement   
       Appendix A                  Approved Plant List   
       Appendix B                  Definitions   
      182                  Non-Tributary Ground Water   
       #1                  Underlying Lands   
       2                  Drilling & Extraction Proh.   
       3                  Town Manager's Duties   
       4                  Violations & Penalty   
      183                  Storm Drainage Utility    
       #1                  General; Definitions   
       2                  Administrative Provisions   
       3                  Technical Criteria   
       4                  Rates & Charges   
       5                  Penalties & Severance   
      184                  Flood Hazard Boundaries   
      185                  Emergency Telephone Service    
      186               S   Appropriation   
      187               S   Appropriation   
      188                  Sales Tax   
      189                  Use Tax   
       #1                  Purpose   
       2                  Definitions   
       3                  Application & Exemptions   
       4                  Motor & Other Veh. Use Tax   
       5                  Construc. & Bldg Mat. Use Tax   
       6                  Use Tax   
       7               S   Severability Clause   
       8                  Amendment   
       9                  Violation; Penalty   
       10                  Effective Date   
       11                  Total Tax   
      190                  Bd. Trustee Meetings; Appointment   
       #6                  Meetings   
       12                  Appointments   
       16                  Interference of Officers   
      191                  Business License   
       #1                  License Required   
       2                  Application of Provs.   
       3                  Contents   
       4                  Requirements   
       5                  Term of License   
       6                  Separate License & Trans.   
       7                  Renewal Of License   
         8                  Application to Managers   
       9                  Short Term License   
       10                  Mobil Vending   
       11                  Schedule of Fees   
       12                  Suspension, Rev. Nonrenewal   
       13                  Canvassing & Soliciting   
       14                  Penalty   
      192               Repealing Only   
      193               S   Appropriation   
      194               S   Appropriation   
      195   10   5            Land Disturbance Regs.   
       #1                  Explan. Material; Defs.   
       2                  Administrative Provisions   
       3                  Standards & Technical Crit.   
       4                  Erosion & Sediment Control   
       5                  Applicant Responsibilities   
       6                  Enforcement & Inspection   
       7                  Bonding & Insurance   
      196               204   Nonconforming Uses   
      197                  Flood Hazard Amendments   
      198               S   Annexation   
      199                  Rezoning   
      200                  Amd. Title of Ord. 196   
      201               S   Appropriation   
      202               S   Appropriation   
      203   7   2   1-10         Street Names & Hse Numbers   
      204   10               Nonconforming Uses   
      205   10               Vested Property Rights   
       #1                  Purpose   
       2                  Definitions   
       3                  Notice & Hearing   
       4                  Approval   
       5                  Notice Of Approval   
       6                  Amdmt. of approved Site Plan   
       7                  Costs   
       8                  Other Provisions   
       9                  Limitations   
      206               S   Vacation   
      207                  Amd.Traffic Code; Traf. Eng
   
       #1                  Manager as Traffic Engineer   
       2                  Engineer Duties   
       3                  Auth. to Town Marshall   
       4                  Amd. Traffic Code   
      208                  Traffic Amendments   
       #1                  Penalties   
       2                  Jury Trials   
      209                  Voluntary Salary Redirection   
      210               S   Vacation   
      211               S   Vacation   
      212               S   Appropriation   
      *213                  Bd of Adjustment Amdments   
      214                  Fees, Rates & Charges   
      *215                  Special Events License   
      216               S   Franchise   
      217               S   Appropriation   
      218               S   Real Estate   
      219               S   Intergovernmental Agreement   
      220               S   Contract & Deed   
      221   4               Animal Control   
       #1                  Definitions   
       2                  Duties Animal Control Officer   
       3                  Prosecution for Violations   
       4                  Rabies Control   
       5                  Running at Large   
       6                  Impoundment Notice   
       7                  Fees   
       8                  Disposition of Unclaimed Animals   
       9                  Disposition of Wild Animals   
       10                  Animals Proh. Injuring Property   
       11                  Confinement of Certain Animals   
       12                  Cruelty and neglect of Animals   
       13                  Poisoning of Animals   
       14                  Accidents Involving Animals   
       15                  Death of Animals   
       16                  Vicious Animals   
       17                  Barking Dogs   
       18                  Guard Dogs   
       19                  Trapping Animals   
       20                  Redemption of Fees   
       21                  Penalties   
       22                  Enforcement   
      222                  Amdments to Municipal Court   
      223               S   Vacation   
      223A               S   Vacation   
      224               S   Appropriation   
      225               S   Annexation   
      226               S   Vacation   
      227               S   Annexation   
      228               S   Rezoning   
      229               S   Appropriation   
      230               S   Appropriation   
      231                  Municipal Election   
       #1                  Write-In Candidates   
       2                  Cancellation of Election   
       3                  Term of Office   
      232               S   Intergovernmental Agreement   
      233               S   CATV Franchise   
      234               S   Vacation   
      235               S   Vacation   
      236               S   Appropriation   
      237                  Water Resource Fee    
      238                  Sewer Development Fees
