TOWN CODE
of
SIMLA, COLORADO
1990
Code current through:
Ord. 343, passed December 10, 2024
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street * Suite 310 * Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-800-445-5588 * www.amlegal.com
PREFACE
         This code of the Town of Simla, as supplemented, contains ordinances
up to and including ordinance 343, passed December 10, 2024. Ordinances of the
Town adopted after said ordinance supersede the provisions of this code to the
extent that they are in conflict or inconsistent therewith. Consult the Town
office in order to ascertain whether any particular provision of the code has
been amended, superseded or repealed.
                     American Legal Publishing
                     Cincinnati, Ohio
ORDINANCES PENDING CODIFICATION
Ordinances listed have been passed, but have not been incorporated in the
actual code. Please contact the office of the clerk if there are any questions
concerning the ordinances listed.
TITLE 1
ADMINISTRATIVE
CHAPTER 1
OFFICIAL TOWN CODE
SECTION:
1-1-1: Title
1-1-2: Acceptance
1-1-3: Amendments
1-1-4: Code Alterations
1-1-1: TITLE:
Upon the adoption by the Board of Trustees, this Town Code is hereby declared
to be and shall hereafter constitute the official Code of the Town. This Town
Code of Ordinances shall be known and cited as the SIMLA TOWN CODE, and it is
hereby published by authority of the Board of Trustees and shall be kept up to
date as provided in Section
1-1-3 of this Chapter. Any reference to the number of any section contained
herein shall be understood to refer to the position of the same number, its
appropriate chapter and title heading and to the general penalty clause
relating thereto, as well as to the section itself, when reference is made to
this Town Code by title in any legal document. (1990 Code)
1-1-2: ACCEPTANCE:
The Town Code, as hereby presented in printed form, shall hereafter be received
without further proof in all courts and in all administrative tribunals of this
State as the ordinances of the Village of general and permanent effect, except
the excluded ordinances enumerated in Section
1-2-1 of this Title. (1990 Code)
1-1-3: AMENDMENTS:
Any ordinance amending the Town Code shall set forth the title, chapter and
section number of the section or sections to be amended, and this shall
constitute sufficient compliance with any statutory requirement pertaining to
the amendment or revision by ordinance of any part of this Town Code. All such
amendments or revisions by ordinance shall be immediately forwarded to the
codifiers, and the said ordinance material shall be prepared for insertion in
its proper place in each copy of this Town Code. Each such replacement page
shall be properly identified and shall be inserted in each individual copy of
the Town Code. (1990 Code)
1-1-4: CODE ALTERATIONS:
It shall be deemed unlawful for any person to alter, change, replace or deface
in any way any section or any page of this Town Code in such a manner that the
meaning of any phrase or order may be changed or omitted. Replacement pages may
be inserted according to the official instructions when so authorized by the
Town Board. The Town Clerk and Recorder shall see that the replacement pages
are properly inserted in the official copies maintained in the office of the
Clerk and Recorder. Any person having in his custody an official copy of the
Town Code shall make every effort to maintain said Code in an up-to-date and
efficient manner. He shall see to the immediate insertion of new or replacement
pages when such are delivered to him or made available to him through the
office of the Town Clerk and Recorder. Said Code books, while in actual
possession of officials and other interested persons, shall be and remain the
property of the Town and shall be returned to the office of the Clerk when
directed to do so by order of the Town Board. (1990 Code)
CHAPTER 2
SAVING CLAUSE
SECTION:
1-2-1: Repeal of General Ordinances
1-2-2: Public Utility Ordinances
1-2-3: Court Proceedings
1-2-4: Severability Clause
1-2-1: REPEAL OF GENERAL ORDINANCES:
All general ordinances of the Town passed prior to the adoption of this Town
Code are hereby repealed, except such as are included in this Town Code or are
by necessary implication herein reserved from repeal (subject to the saving
clauses contained in the following sections), and excluding the following
ordinances which are not hereby repealed: tax levy ordinances; appropriation
ordinances; ordinances relating to boundaries and annexations; franchise
ordinances and other ordinances granting special rights to persons or
corporations; contract ordinances and ordinances authorizing the execution of a
contract or the issuance of warrants; salary ordinances; ordinances
establishing, naming or vacating streets, alleys or other public places;
improvement ordinances; bond ordinances; ordinances relating to elections;
ordinances relating to the transfer or acceptance of real estate by or from the
Town; and all special ordinances. (1990 Code)
1-2-2: PUBLIC UTILITY ORDINANCES:
No ordinance relating to railroad crossings with streets and other public ways,
or relating to the conduct, duties, service or rates of public utilities shall
be repealed by virtue of the adoption of this Town Code or by virtue of the
preceding section, excepting as the Town Code may contain provisions for such
matters; in which case, this Town Code shall be considered as amending such
ordinance or ordinances in respect to such provisions only. (1990 Code)
1-2-3: COURT PROCEEDINGS:
No new ordinance shall be construed or held to repeal a former ordinance
whether such former ordinance is expressly repealed or not, as to any offense
committed against such former ordinance or as to any act done, any penalty,
forfeiture or punishment so incurred, or any right accrued or claim arising
under the former ordinance, or in any way whatever to affect any such offense
or act so committed or so done, or any penalty, forfeiture or punishment so
incurred or any right accrued or claim arising before the new ordinance takes
effect, save only that the proceedings thereafter shall conform to the
ordinance in force at the time of such proceeding, so far as practicable. If
any penalty, forfeiture or punishment be mitigated by any provision of a new
ordinance, such provision may be, by consent of the party affected, applied to
any judgment announced after the new ordinance takes effect.
This Section shall extend to all repeals, either by express words or
implication, whether the repeal is in the ordinance making any new provisions
upon the same subject or in any other ordinance.
Nothing contained in this Chapter shall be construed as abating any action now
pending under or by virtue of any general ordinance of the Village herein
repealed and the provisions of all general ordinances contained in this Code
shall be deemed to be continuing provisions and not a new enactment of the same
provision, nor shall this Chapter be deemed as discontinuing, abating,
modifying or altering any penalty accrued or to accrue, or as affecting the
liability of any person, firm or corporation, or as waiving any right of the
Town under any ordinance or provision thereof in force at the time of the
adoption of this Town Code. (1990 Code)
1-2-4: SEVERABILITY CLAUSE:
If any section, subsection, subdivision, paragraph, sentence, clause or phrase
of this Town Code or any part thereof is for any reason held to be
unconstitutional or invalid or ineffective by any court of competent
jurisdiction, such decision shall not affect the validity or effectiveness of
the remaining portions of this Code, or any part thereof. The Town Board of
Trustees hereby declares that it would have passed each section, subsection,
subdivision, paragraph, sentence, clause or phrase thereof irrespective of the
fact that any one or more sections, subsections, subdivisions, paragraphs,
sentences, clauses or phrases be declared unconstitutional, invalid or
ineffective. (1990 Code)
CHAPTER 3
DEFINITIONS
SECTION:
1-3-1: Construction of Words
1-3-2: Definitions, General
1-3-3: Catchlines
1-3-1: CONSTRUCTION OF WORDS:
Whenever any word in any section of this Town Code importing the plural number
is used in describing or referring to any matters, parties or persons, any
single matter, party or person shall be deemed to be included, although
distributive words may not have been used. When any subject matter, party or
person is referred to in this Town Code by words importing the singular number
only, or the masculine gender, several matters, parties or persons and females
as well as males and bodies corporate shall be deemed to be included; provided,
that these rules of construction shall not be applied to any section of this
Town Code which contains any express provision excluding such construction or
where the subject matter or context may be repugnant thereto.
The word "ordinance" contained in the ordinances of the Town has been changed
in the content of this Town Code to "Title", "Chapter", "Section" and/or
"subsection" or words of like import for organizational and clarification
purposes only. Such change to the Town's ordinances is not meant to amend
passage and effective dates of such original ordinances. (1990 Code)
1-3-2: DEFINITIONS, GENERAL:
Whenever the following words or terms are used in this Code, they shall have
such meanings herein ascribed to them, unless the context makes such meaning
repugnant thereto:
AGENT: A person acting on behalf of another.
BOARD: Unless otherwise indicated, the Board of Trustees of the Town. Sometimes
referred to as Town Council.
CODE: The Town Code of Simla, Colorado, and amendments thereto.
COUNCIL: See Board.
COUNTY: The County of Elbert, State of Colorado.
EMPLOYEES: Whenever reference is made in this Code to a Town employee by title
only, this shall be construed as though followed by the words, "of the Town of
Simla".
FEE: A sum of money charged by the Town for the carrying on of a business,
profession or occupation.
LICENSE: The permission granted for the carrying on of a business, profession
or occupation.
MAYOR: Mayor of the Town of Simla.
MISDEMEANOR: Any offense other than a felony, as classified in Colorado Revised
Statutes section 18-1-106.
NUISANCE: Anything offensive or obnoxious to the health and welfare of the
inhabitants of the Town; or any act or thing repugnant to, or creating a hazard
to, or having a detrimental effect on the property of another person or to the
community.
OCCUPANT: As applied to a building or land, shall include any person who
occupies the whole or any part of such building or land whether alone or with
others.
OFFENSE: Any act forbidden by any provision of this Code or the omission of any
act required by the provisions of this Code.
OFFICERS: Whenever reference is made in this Code to a Town officer by title
only, this shall be construed as though followed by the words "of the Town of
Simla".
OPERATOR: The person who is in charge of any operation, business or profession.
OWNER: As applied to a building or land, shall include any part owner, joint
owner, tenant in common, joint tenant or lessee of the whole or of a part of
such building or land.
PERSON: Any public or private corporation, firm, partnership, association,
organization, government or any other group acting as a unit, as well as a
natural person.
PERSONAL PROPERTY: Shall include every description of money, goods, chattels,
effects, evidence of rights in action and all written instruments by which any
pecuniary obligation, right or title to property is created, acknowledged,
transferred, increased, defeated, discharged or diminished and every right or
interest therein.
RETAILER: Unless otherwise specifically defined, shall be understood to relate
to the sale of goods, merchandise, articles or things in small quantities
directly to the consumer.
STATE: The State of Colorado.
STREET: Shall include alleys, lanes, courts, boulevards, public ways, public
squares, public places and sidewalks.
TENANT: As applied to a building or land, shall include any person who occupies
the whole or any part of such buildings or land, whether alone or with others.
TOWN: The Town of Simla, County of Elbert, State of Colorado.
WHOLESALER and WHOLESALE DEALER: Unless otherwise specifically defined, such
terms shall be understood to relate to the sale of goods, merchandise, articles
or things in quantity to persons who purchase for the purpose of resale. (1990
Code)
WORKING DAY: Any day other than a weekend day or recognized holiday. (Ord. 175,
12-22-88)
WRITTEN, IN WRITING: May include printing and any other mode of representing
words and letters, but when the written signature of any person is required by
law to any official or public writing or bond, it shall be in the proper
handwriting of such person, or in case he is unable to write, by his proper
mark. (1990 Code)
1-3-3: CATCHLINES:
The catchlines of the several sections of the Town Code are intended as mere
catchwords to indicate the content of the section and shall not be deemed or
taken to be titles of such sections, nor be deemed to govern, limit, modify or
in any manner affect the scope, meaning or intent of the provisions of any
division or section thereof, nor unless expressly so provided, shall they be so
deemed when any of such sections, including the catchlines, are amended or re-
enacted. (1990 Code)
CHAPTER 4
GENERAL PENALTY
SECTION:
1-4-1: General Penalty
1-4-2: Application Of Provisions
1-4-3: Liability Of Officers
1-4-1: GENERAL PENALTY:
Any person convicted of a violation of any section or provision of this Code,
where no other penalty is set forth, shall be punished by a fine not to exceed
seven hundred ($700.00). A schedule of fines shall be posted by the Simla
Municipal Court in accordance with Colorado Municipal Court Rule 210(b)(5).
(Res. 85-1998, 3-14-1998; amd. Ord. 319, 8-11-2020)
1-4-2: APPLICATION OF PROVISIONS:
The penalty provided in this Chapter shall be applicable to every section of
this Code the same as though it were a part of each and every separate section.
Any person convicted of a violation of any section of this Code where any duty
is prescribed or obligation imposed, or where any action which is of a
continuing nature is forbidden or is declared to be unlawful, shall be deemed
guilty of a misdemeanor. A separate offense shall be deemed committed upon each
day such duty or obligation remains unperformed or such act continues, unless
otherwise specifically provided in this Code.
In all cases where the same offense is made punishable or is created by
different clauses or sections of this Code, the Town Attorney may elect under
which to proceed, but not more than one recovery shall be had against the same
person for the same offense; provided, that the revocation of a license or
permit shall not be considered a recovery or penalty so as to bar any other
penalty being enforced.
Whenever the doing of any act or the omission to do any act constitutes a
breach of any section or provision of this Code and there shall be no fine or
penalty specifically declared for such breach, the provisions of this Chapter
shall apply. (1990 Code)
1-4-3: LIABILITY OF OFFICERS:
No provision of this Code designating the duties of any officer or any employee
shall be so construed as to make such officer or employee liable for any fine
or penalty provided for a failure to perform such duty, unless the intention of
the Board of Trustees to impose such fine or penalty on such officer or
employee is specifically and clearly expressed in the section creating the
duty. (1990 Code)
CHAPTER 5
MAYOR AND BOARD OF TRUSTEES
SECTION:
1-5-1: Election; Term Of Office; Vacancies
1-5-2: Rules Of Order And Procedure
1-5-3: Intergovernmental Contracts
1-5-4: Mayor; Duties
1-5-5: Mayor Pro Tem; Acting Mayor
1-5-6: Compensation
1-5-1: ELECTION; TERM OF OFFICE; VACANCIES:
   A.   Election; Term Of Office: The legislative and corporate authority of
the town is by state law vested in a board of trustees, consisting of one mayor
and six (6) trustees, who shall be qualified electors residing within the
limits of the corporation for a period of at least twelve (12) months
immediately preceding the date of the election; except, that in case of
annexation, any person who has resided within the annexed territory for the
time prescribed in this section shall be deemed to have met the residence
requirements. Members of the board and the mayor shall be elected at a regular
biennial election held the first Tuesday in April of said year. Members of the
board and the mayor shall be elected for terms of four (4) years. An exception
to this rule would be in the case of a vacancy. (1990 Code)
   B.   Vacancies: The board of trustees has the power, by appointment, to fill
all vacancies in the board or any other office, and the person so appointed
shall hold his office until the next regular election and until his successor
is elected and has complied with Colorado Revised Statutes, section 31-4-401.
The board also has the power to fill a vacancy in the board by ordering an
election to fill the vacancy until the next regular election and until a
successor has been elected and has complied with Colorado Revised Statutes,
section 31-4-401. If a vacancy in the board is not filled by appointment or an
election is not ordered within sixty (60) days after the vacancy occurs, the
board shall order an election, subject to the municipal election code 1 , to be
held as soon as practicable to fill the vacancy until the next regular election
and until a successor has been elected and has complied with Colorado Revised
Statutes, section 31-4-401. (1990 Code; amd. letter dated 5-13-1991)
   C.   Application Of Provisions: This section shall be deemed to be the rule
to follow in any election held for electing board of trustees members in the
town. (1990 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. CRS 31-10-101 et seq., and chapter 7 of this title.
1-5-2: RULES OF ORDER AND PROCEDURE:
   A.   Purpose: The rules of order and procedure are intended as a general
guide to various legislative activities and is a compilation of policies,
procedures, and rules of order relative to the actions of the town board.
   B.   Suspension And Amendment Of Rules: The rules of order and procedure may
be suspended, amended, or added to by a majority vote of all members of the
board of trustees. (Ord. 208, 3-3-1998)
   C.   Meetings Of The Board Of Trustees: A "meeting" is defined as any kind
of gathering, including participation in a telephone conversation, of three (3)
or more members of the board of trustees, when such discussion includes public
business. Meetings may include the following:
      1.   Regular Meetings: The board of trustees shall hold regular meetings
on the second Tuesday of each month. The only exception to a second Tuesday as
the monthly meeting time will be if a recognized holiday falls on that day. In
such case the monthly meeting will be held at the same hour on the next
succeeding day which is not a holiday. The hour or time at which the meetings
shall be held shall be determined by the board and shall be set on an annual
basis at the first monthly meeting of each year. The board may change the hour
and time during the year provided that at least twenty (20) days' notice of the
change of time is given by posting on the front door of the municipal building
and a one time publication is made in a newspaper of local circulation. All
regular meetings of the board will be held in the municipal building in a room
designated by the board. All meetings of the board of trustees, except for
executive session as provided by law, shall be open to the public. The board
shall cause to be kept complete and accurate minutes of the proceedings and any
citizen of the town shall have access to such minutes at reasonable times.
(Ord. 260, 12-5-2006, eff. 1-1-2007)
      2.   Special Meetings: The mayor, or the mayor pro tem if the mayor is
absent, or at least three (3) members of the board (as evidenced by each
trustee's signature on the written notice described below), may call a special
meeting of the board at any time, upon written notice to each board member,
either delivered personally or left at his or her residence, at least twenty
four (24) hours before the special meeting. The notice shall state the date and
hour of the meeting and the purpose for which such meeting is called. No
business other than that described in the notice shall be transacted at such
special meeting.
      3.   Board Work Sessions Or Workshops: The board may meet informally in
workshops at such time and place as the board may agree for the purpose of
receiving reports, discussing town business, or for consideration of relevant
information related to town matters. No formal action may be taken at a
workshop except as may be approved at a subsequent regular or special meeting
of the board. (Ord. 208, 3-3-1998)
      4.   Executive Sessions: The board may, subject to and pursuant to the
requirements of the open meeting law, Colorado Revised Statutes 24-6-401, as
amended, hold an executive session outside of public hearing, for reasons
allowed or mandated by the state statute. The procedure for the holding of the
executive session shall be in conformance with the state law as it exists at
the time of the executive session. (Ord. 288, 2-14-2012)
   D.   Meeting Participants:
      1.   Presiding Officer: The mayor shall preside over meetings of the town
board and have the same right to speak therein as any other member. In the
event that the mayor is not present, the mayor pro tem shall be the presiding
officer. In case of the absence or disability of both the mayor and the mayor
pro tem, the town clerk shall call the board to order and call the roll of
members. If a quorum is found to be present, the board shall proceed to elect,
by majority vote of those present, a temporary chair to serve as the presiding
officer of the meeting until the arrival of the mayor or mayor pro tem. The
duties of the presiding officer shall include the following:
         a.   Open the meeting at the appointed time, and call the meeting to
order.
         b.   Announce the business coming before the board in accordance with
the agenda and prescribed order of business including any new agenda items, or
direct the town clerk to introduce items of business.
         c.   Recognize those who are entitled to the floor.
         d.   State and put to a vote all questions that legitimately come
before the board and announce the results of each vote.
         e.   Enforce the board's rules relating to order and decorum at all
meetings, including deciding all questions of order.
         f.   Declare the meeting adjourned.
      2.   Trustees (Board Members): Board members are expected to punctually
attend all regularly scheduled board meetings and workshops. In case of
emergency, board members should notify the town clerk or mayor in advance of
the meeting if at all possible. (Ord. 208, 3-3-1998)
      3.   Town Staff:
         a.   Town Clerk And Treasurer: The town clerk and treasurer shall be
appointed within thirty (30) days following every regular election. The town
clerk and treasurer shall attend all meetings of the board unless excused, and
shall keep the official minutes of the proceedings as well as perform such
other duties as may be requested by the board. (Ord. 288, 2-14-2012)
         b.   Town Attorney: The town attorney as the board's legal
representative, shall attend all meetings of the board unless excused. The town
attorney shall have no vote but shall advise the board members as to the legal
aspects of all town matters and, upon request, shall provide either a written
or oral opinion on questions of law presented by the board members.
         c.   Other Municipal Officials And Employees: The head of any town
department, or any officer or employee of the town, as directed by the board,
shall attend meetings of the board of trustees.
   E.   Agenda And Notice Of Meetings:
      1.   Agenda Procedures: Prior to each meeting of the board, and no later
than five o'clock (5:00) P.M. on the Friday preceding the regular monthly
meeting of the board of trustees, the town clerk shall distribute to each board
member a packet containing a copy of the agenda of the meeting, any proposed
ordinances, resolutions or other relevant written or printed documentation to
be presented at the meeting, and a copy of the minutes of the previously held
regular or special meeting.
      2.   Notice Of Meetings: The agenda of meetings shall be posted by the
Town Clerk at least twenty four (24) hours prior to the scheduled meeting. The
notice shall be posted on the front door of the Municipal Building and at such
other places as may be directed by the Board. The posting location shall be
designated annually at the first regular Town Board meeting of each calendar
year.
   F.   Meeting Procedures:
      1.   Quorum: A majority of the members of the entire Board of Trustees
shall constitute a quorum and be necessary for the transaction of business. If
a quorum is not present, those in attendance will be named and they shall
adjourn to a later time. Any member of the Board, at any regular or special
meeting wherein there is not a quorum present may, in writing, demand the
attendance of the absent members, which said demand shall be entered on the
record by the Town Clerk in conjunction with the setting of a new meeting date.
The only other action that the Board may take in the absence of a quorum is to
adjourn the meeting.
      2.   Rules Of Order: The primary purpose for the use of parliamentary
procedures is to protect the rights and privileges of those in deliberation as
well as the citizens of the Town. The Scott-Foresman “Roberts Rules of Order
Newly Revised”, most recent edition, shall govern the proceedings of the Board
in all cases, unless in conflict with State statute.
      3.   Preservation Of Order: The presiding officer shall preserve order
and decorum in all meetings, preventing attacks on personalities or the
impugning of members' character or motives.
      4.   Debate: Each member of the Board has a right to speak on every issue
or motion before the Board. When recognized by the presiding officer, a member
shall confine his or her remarks to the matter or question then under
discussion.
      5.   Voting: The ayes and nays shall be taken upon the passage of all
ordinances, resolutions, and motions, and entered into the minutes. Every
member, when present, shall vote unless such member declares a conflict of
interest as set forth in Colorado Revised Statues 31-4-404(2) and other
relevant state statutes. A vote by voice shall generally be used and a show of
hands may be requested by the Mayor for verification. A roll call vote may also
be requested by any member of the Board. In the case of a tie vote the Mayor
shall cast the deciding vote as allowed by this Code.
      6.   Conflicts Of Interest: Upon determining that a boardmember has a
personal or private interest, potential conflict, or appearance of conflict,
proposed or pending before the Board, the member shall request to speak when
the particular agenda item is called for discussion and shall either disclose
that there may be a personal or private interest, potential conflict, or
appearance of conflict, in the matter and that the member will not participate
in the discussion or decision; or the member may request legal advice and/or a
legal opinion from the Town Attorney.
      7.   Order Of Business: The routine of the meetings shall follow that
format as set forth below unless special circumstances warrant a deviation from
such routine:
         a.   Call To Order And Roll Call: The presiding officer shall open the
meeting by calling it to order, citing the date of the meeting and whether the
meeting is a regular or special meeting. The roll shall then be called to
verify member attendance and to substantiate that the Board has complied with
the quorum requirements set forth herein.
         b.   Pledge Of Allegiance: The presiding officer shall lead in the
recitation of the Pledge of Allegiance to the American flag.
         c.   Approval Of Agenda: The presiding officer will review the agenda
calling attention to any additions, deletions, or corrections that may be
necessary. The presiding officer shall also call attention to any consent
agenda items. The consent agenda is intended to allow the Board to expedite
those items that are of a routine nature and not controversial. The consent
agenda is provided as a convenience and time savings to the citizens attending
the meeting.
         d.   Approval Of Minutes: The Board shall approve or make such
modifications as necessary to the minutes taken by the Town Clerk at the last
regular and/or special meeting.
         e.   Audience To Visitors (Agenda Item): Those Town citizens who have
a specific topic or topics that such citizen wishes to have heard or considered
by the Board and which topic has not already been listed as an agenda item,
shall submit such topic to the Town Clerk no later than four o'clock (4:00)
P.M. on the Wednesday preceding the Tuesday Board meeting at which time the
resident wishes to have the topic discussed. Such citizen shall be given a
reasonable opportunity to present the topic to the Board for discussion.
         f.   Audience To Visitors (Nonagenda Item): Those Town citizens who do
not submit a specific topic for discussion within the time frame allowed above,
or visitors to the Board meeting who have not been placed on the agenda, may
each be allowed up to three (3) minutes in which to address the Board regarding
any issue or topic relevant to Town business. At the Board's discretion such
issue or topic may be placed on the agenda of the next regular meeting for
consideration and further discussion if the three (3) minute time limit is
inadequate to properly address the issue or topic.
         g.   Reports: Reports, oral or written, to the Board shall be made by
the Town Treasurer, heads of department, and the Mayor and Trustees, as
available.
         h.   Unfinished Business: Topics previously discussed but not finally
decided by the Board shall be returned to the agenda for discussion and
determination by the Board.
         i.   New Business: The agenda shall include items in which no
substantive action has yet been taken by the Board.
         j.   Other Items And Approval Of Claims And Vouchers: The Board shall
consider and determine any other relevant business before the Board and approve
appropriate debts or obligations of the Town.
         k.   Adjournment: Upon no further business, the presiding officer may
declare the meeting to be adjourned.
   G.   General Rules:
      1.   No Smoking: There shall be no smoking allowed in the deliberative
room or rooms during regular, special, or workshop meetings.
      2.   Visitors: Visitors wishing to participate in or observe the
proceedings shall register their presence in writing, which writing shall
become part of the minutes and records of the proceeding. The visitor shall
inform the Town Clerk or Trustees at the beginning of the meeting as to his or
her request to address the Board on any topic or topics. When the particular
topic or topics are reached in the agenda the person or persons shall be given
the opportunity to speak to the Board. The Board may require the removal of any
person who becomes abusive, threatening, or disruptive to the proceedings.
Failure to comply with the rules and procedures set forth by the Board may be
grounds for the removal of the visitor or the denial of a visitor's request to
address the Board or participate in any discussion.
      3.   Length Of Deliberation: The presiding officer, with the input of the
Board, shall determine the amount of discussion to be given to each topic
before the Board, whether such topic is an agenda item or not. If the presiding
officer, or a majority of the Board, determines that the topic requires further
study or fact-finding, or that the topic has been thoroughly discussed, or that
such topic is no longer relevant to the interests of the Town, or that the
remaining agenda items for discussion require the Board's attention at such
meeting, such topic shall be continued to the next meeting, tabled
indefinitely, or given other appropriate resolution by the Board.
      4.   Recess: The presiding officer may call a recess, not to exceed
fifteen (15) minutes, at any time during a meeting or at the request of a
majority of the Boardmembers, to obtain relevant facts or between items of
business.
      5.   Minutes Of Meeting: An account of all proceedings of the Board of
Trustees shall be kept by the Town Clerk and shall be entered in a book
constituting the official record of the Board. The minutes shall be primarily a
record of the action taken at a meeting and not necessarily what was said by
members of the Board. The minutes shall contain a separate paragraph for each
subject matter and reflect each subject or item considered and the disposition
of each motion, resolution, ordinance, or matter which action is taken. The
minutes may be corrected or amended prior to approval and shall not be
considered as official minutes until approved by the Board at the next
scheduled meeting.
      6.   Sergeant At Arms: The Town Chief of Police, acting Chief of Police,
or such other person as appointed by the Mayor, shall be the enforcing agent of
the Board as to the peace and decorum of the Board meetings.
   H.   Ordinances, Resolutions, And Motions:
      1.   Ordinances: An ordinance is the most authoritative form of action
the Board can take. An adopted ordinance becomes an established rule or law of
the Town and remains in effect until otherwise repealed, rescinded, or amended
by the Board. Every ordinance shall require the affirmative vote of the
majority of the Board for final passage except as provided by Colorado statute.
All ordinances, as soon as may be after their passage, shall be recorded in an
ordinance book kept for that purpose, and authenticated by the signature of the
Mayor and the Town Clerk. All ordinances or bylaws of a general or permanent
nature, and those imposing any fine, penalty or forfeiture following adoption
shall be published in a newspaper of general circulation within the Town. Such
ordinances shall not take effect until thirty (30) days after such publication,
except for ordinances calling for special elections or necessary to the
immediate preservation of the public health or safety and containing the
reasons making the same necessary in separate section and provided that such
ordinances shall have been passed by affirmative vote of five (5) of the
members of the Board of Trustees. Codes may also be adopted by reference as
provided by State law.
      2.   Resolutions: Resolutions are acts of a relatively permanent nature
and remain in effect until repealed, rescinded, or amended by the Board.
Generally, resolutions implement or carry out the terms of an ordinance,
provide a statement of policy, or express the Board’s opinion on a public
matter. Resolutions are generally introduced in written form and may be adopted
by a majority of a quorum on the Board. However, resolutions may also be
verbally introduced and need not be reduced to writing, unless directed by the
Board. Resolutions need not be published but shall be kept on public file.
      3.   Motions: A motion refers to a formal proposal by a Boardmember that
the Board may take action upon. Motions are generally introduced by voice but
long or involved motions should be in writing. Main motions shall introduce
items of business. A main motion can be made only when no other motion is
pending and it ranks lowest in the order of precedence of motions. Subsidiary
motions are secondary or supplemental to the main motion and must be dealt with
before the main motion can be voted on.
   I.   Committees: At the first regular meeting following each municipal
election, the Mayor shall appoint Trustees to serve on the “Public Works”,
“Police”, and “Town Office” subcommittees, as well as any other subcommittee
deemed to be useful to Board determinations.
   J.   Code Of Ethics:
      1.   Purpose: The proper operation of democratic government requires that
actions of public officials be impartial; that government decisions and
policies be made in the proper channel of government structure; that public
office not be used for personal gain; and that the public have confidence in
the integrity of its government. In recognition of these goals, a Code of
Ethics is adopted to establish guidelines for ethical standards of conduct by
setting forth those acts or actions that are incompatible with the best
interest of the Town, and by directing disclosure of private financial or other
interest in matters affecting the Town.
      2.   Definitions: The following definitions shall be applicable in the
reading of this Code of Ethics:
   ANYTHING OF VALUE: Money, property, favor, service, payment, advance,
forbearance, loan, guarantee of loan, or promise of future employment. Such
term does not include the solicitation, acceptance, receipt of political
campaign contributions regulated by law, or hospitality extended for a purpose
related to Town business by a person.
   CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION: All information, whether transmitted orally or in
writing, which is of such a nature that it is not, at that time, a matter of
public record or public knowledge.
   PERSON: Any business, individual, union, committee, club, organization, or
group of individuals.
   PUBLIC OFFICIAL: Shall mean and include the Mayor, members of the Board of
Trustees, and members of any board, commission, authority, or committee
associated with the Town.
      3.   Code Of Ethics: Public officials shall:
         a.   Strive to protect and enhance the reputation of the Town.
         b.   Treat all persons equally with courtesy and impartiality, and
refrain from granting special advantage to any person beyond what is available
to all citizens.
         c.   Avoid real or potential conflicts between private and public
duties, remembering that the public interest must be the principal concern.
         d.   Keep undisclosed all confidential information acquired by reason
of one's position which may be used for personal or financial gain, consistent
with the public's right of access to public information.
         e.   Refrain from securing special privileges or exemptions for one's
self or one's relatives or other persons that are not available to all
citizens.
         f.   Avoid receiving, soliciting or otherwise obtaining anything of
value from any person which is intended to influence or reward the performance
of official duties.
         g.   Avoid exceeding one's authority or asking for special
consideration or asking other persons to do so.
      4.   Disclosure: Public officials shall declare to the appropriate
authority the nature and extent of any financial or personal interest in a Town
contract or other legislation or action concerned with Town business or the
Town interest. (Ord. 208, 3-3-1998; amd. Ord. 319, 8-11-2020)
1-5-3: INTERGOVERNMENTAL CONTRACTS:
The Board of Trustees shall have the authority, on behalf of the Town, to enter
into contractual arrangements within or among other local governments for the
performance of any governmental service, activity or undertaking which could be
performed by each of the local governments. Any such contract shall set forth
fully the purposes, powers, rights, obligations and the responsibilities,
financial or otherwise, of the contracting parties. Such contract may be
approved by the Board by resolution or by ordinance. (1990 Code)
1-5-4: MAYOR; DUTIES:
The Mayor shall have the following powers and duties:
   A.   The Mayor shall be a member of the Board of Trustees and shall preside
at all meetings of the Board of Trustees. The Mayor shall not be a voting
member of the Board except in the case of a tie vote at which time the Mayor
shall vote to determine the outcome. At the first meeting of the Board after a
general election, the Board shall select a Trustee to serve as Mayor Pro Tem to
preside at all meetings of the Board when the Mayor is absent. The Mayor Pro
Tem, when not acting as Mayor, shall be entitled to vote as any other Trustee.
   B.   Insofar as required by statute and for all ceremonial purposes, he
shall be the executive head of the Town.
   C.   He shall execute and authenticate by his signature such instruments as
the Trustees or any statutes or ordinances of the Town shall require.
   D.   Such other powers and duties as are provided by statute or ordinance,
or specifically conferred upon him by the Board of Trustees. (1990 Code; amd.
Ord. 319, 8-11-2020)
1-5-5: MAYOR PRO TEM; ACTING MAYOR:
At its first meeting following each biennial election, the Board shall choose
one of the Trustees as Mayor Pro Tem, who in the absence of the Mayor from any
meeting of the Board or during the Mayor's absence from the Town, or his
inability to act, shall perform the duties of Mayor. When performing the
Mayor's duties, the Mayor Pro Tem votes as the Mayor, only in the case of a tie
on an action that requires a vote.
(1990 Code)
1-5-6: COMPENSATION:
   A.   The Mayor shall receive such monthly compensation for his or her
services in the amount of eighty-five dollars ($85.00) per month.
   B.   Each member of the Board of Trustees shall receive such monthly
compensation for his or her services in the amount of eighty-five dollars
($85.00) per month.
   C.   The compensation paid to any member of the Board of Trustees, including
the Mayor, shall not be increased or diminished for the term of office for
which he or she has been elected or appointed. Any Mayor or Board of Trustee
member who has resigned or vacated an office prior to the end of his or her
elected or appointed term shall not be eligible to election or reappointment to
the same during such term if the rate of compensation has been increased.
(Ord. 341, 11- 18-2024)
CHAPTER 6
TOWN OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES
SECTION:
1-6-1: Appointed Town Officers
1-6-2: Participation In Social Security System
1-6-3: Personnel Policy
1-6-1: APPOINTED TOWN OFFICERS:
   A.   Town Clerk And Treasurer: The office of town clerk and treasurer, as
defined in Colorado Revised Statutes 31-4-305, shall be filled by a sole person
performing both duties unless the board at a future date determines that it is
in the best interests of the town to have the separate office of clerk and of
treasurer. The town clerk shall be appointed at the first regular meeting
following the election of the mayor and trustees and shall serve until the next
regular election at which time he or she may be released or reappointed at the
discretion of the board. The town clerk shall attend all meetings of the board
and make a true and accurate record of all the proceedings, rules, and
ordinances made and passed by the board. The town clerk shall have such further
duties as may be assigned by the board and as set forth in the written job
description of the town clerk which is incorporated herein by reference.
   B.   Town Attorney: The office of town attorney, as defined in Colorado
Revised Statutes 31-4-304, shall be filled by a person licensed to practice law
in the state of Colorado and meeting such other legal requirements as the board
may impose. The town attorney shall advise the board and other appointed
officers of the state and local laws, shall enforce this code and town
ordinances, and perform such other duties as requested or required by the board
from time to time. The town attorney shall be appointed at the first regular
meeting following the election of the mayor and trustees and shall serve until
the next regular election at which time he or she may be released or
reappointed at the discretion of the board.
   C.   Chief Of Police: The office of Simla chief of police, as defined by
Colorado Revised Statutes 31-4-306, shall be filled by a person trained and
licensed, if necessary, as a law enforcement officer in the state of Colorado.
The chief of police shall have the same power that sheriffs have by law as to
offenses committed within the town limits and shall execute all writs and
processes directed to him or her by the municipal judge in any case arising
under a town ordinance, or code. The chief of police shall have such further
duties as may be assigned by the board and as set forth in the written job
description of the town chief of police which is incorporated herein by
reference. The town chief of police shall be appointed at the first regular
meeting following the election of the mayor and trustees and shall serve until
the next regular election at which time he or she may be released or
reappointed at the discretion of the board.
   D.   Such other Town officers which are not designated by state statute, but
are deemed to be essential by the Board, shall be appointed by the Board of
Trustees at the first meeting of the new Board following each general election.
A new office my be filled by appointment at such time as the Board, by majority
vote, deems it to be in the Town’s best interest to create the new office. Each
appointment shall require a majority vote of the Board of Trustees; provided,
however, that in case of a tie vote of the Board of Trustees for any candidates
for any of the said offices, the Mayor shall have the power to determine such
tie vote by casting his or her vote for any candidate who has already received
not less than three (3) votes of the Board of Trustees. The officers shall hold
their respective offices until their successors are duly appointed and
qualified. Vacancies shall be filled by appointment of the Board. (Ord. 299, 4-
8-2014; amd. Ord. 319, 8-11-2020)
1-6-2: PARTICIPATION IN SOCIAL SECURITY SYSTEM:
   A.   Purpose And General Information: The board of trustees has determined
that it is in the best interest of the employees and officers of the town to be
covered by the social security system as defined by state statute. The benefits
shall include participation in the old age and survivors insurance system. By
inclusion of employees and officers in the system, it is the interest of the
board that the town be able to compete with private business to attract and
retain the best personnel available. (1990 Code)
The 38th general assembly of the state of Colorado, in regular session, enacted
a statute known as house bill no. 291, which is the enabling act provided for
in section 218 of public law 734, 81st congress, which designated the
department of employment security, state of Colorado, to act as the department
to implement the coverage of employees and officers under the said old age and
survivors insurance system. The town is hereby authorized to execute and
deliver to the department of employment security, state of Colorado, a plan, or
plans, and agreement, required under section 5 of said enabling act and the
social security act, to extend coverage to employees and officers of the town
and do all other necessary things to effectuate coverage of employees and
officers under the old age and survivors insurance system.
   B.   Payroll Deductions: The town clerk and recorder are hereby authorized
to establish a system of payroll deduction to be matched by payments by the
town to be made into the contribution fund of the social security act through
the department of employment security and to make charges of this tax to the
fund or funds from which wage or salary payments are issued to employees of the
town. Such payments are to be made in accordance with the provisions of section
1400 of the federal insurance contribution act on all services which constitute
employment within the meaning of that act. Payments made to the department of
employment security, state of Colorado, shall be due and payable on or before
the fifteenth day of the month immediately following the completed calendar
month, and such payments which are delinquent shall bear interest per month
until such time as payments are made. (Ord. 92, 6-6-1955; amd. 1990 Code)
   C.   Appropriation For Participation In Social Security System:
Appropriation is hereby made from the proper fund or funds of the town in the
necessary amount to pay into the contribution fund as provided in section 5(c)
(1) of the enabling act and in accordance with the plan or plans and agreement.
Authority is given to the mayor and the clerk and recorder of the town to enter
into an agreement with the department of employment security, state of
Colorado, which agreement shall be in accordance with house bill no. 291 and
with paragraph 218 of the social security act. Such plan and agreement shall
provide that the participation of this town shall be in effect as of July 1,
1955. (Ord. 92, 6-6-1955)
1-6-3: PERSONNEL POLICY:
The town of Simla "Policy And Procedure Manual", dated February 7, 1989, is
hereby adopted by reference as though set out herein in full. A copy of the
same is on file in the office of the town clerk and recorder for public
inspection. (1990 Code)
CHAPTER 7
TOWN ELECTIONS
SECTION:
1-7-1: State Laws To Govern Elections
1-7-2: Write-In Candidates
1-7-3: Uniform Election Code Adopted
1-7-1: STATE LAWS TO GOVERN ELECTIONS:
The Colorado Statutes on Municipal elections shall be used as the Town's guide
for Municipal elections. (Ord. 155, 2-27-1984; 1990 Code)
1-7-2: WRITE-IN CANDIDATES:
   A.   Purpose: This Section has been found necessary in order to comply with
State statute sections 31-10-306 and 31-10-507.
   B.   Affidavit Of Intent Required: No write-in vote for any Municipal office
shall be counted unless an affidavit of intent has been filed with the Town
Clerk by the person whose name is written in prior to sixty four (64) days
before the day of election indicating that such person desires the office and
is qualified to assume the duties of that office if elected.
   C.   Cancellation Of Election; Declaration Of Candidates Elected: According
to State statute section 31-10-507, if no other matter comes before the voters
except the election of persons to office and, if at the close of business on
the nineteenth day before election, there are no more candidates than offices
to be filled at such election, including candidates filing affidavits of
intent, the Town Clerk if instructed by resolution of the governing body either
before or after such date, shall cancel the election and by resolution declare
the candidates elected. This shall be provided for by ordinance, and upon such
declaration, the candidates shall be deemed elected. Notice of such
cancellation shall be published and notice of such cancellation shall be posted
at the polling place and in at least one other public place. (Res. 28-1992, 3-
3-1992; amd. Ord. 319, 8-11-2020)
1-7-3: UNIFORM ELECTION CODE ADOPTED:
   A.   The Town hereby adopts the Uniform Election Code of 1992 in lieu of the
Colorado Municipal Election Code of 1965 in accordance with the provisions of
Colorado Revised Statutes 31-10-102.7.
   B.   The Town Clerk is hereby directed to work with the Elbert County Clerk
and Recorder and to take all necessary actions to conduct the regular Municipal
election in accordance with article 10 of section 20(3) of the Colorado
Constitution, the Uniform Election Code of 1992, and all other appropriate
statutes. (Ord. 186, 11-2-1993)
CHAPTER 8
TOWN FINANCES
SECTION:
1-8-1: Conservation Trust Fund
1-8-2: Emergency Telephone Charge
1-8-1: CONSERVATION TRUST FUND:
A conservation trust fund for the town is hereby created pursuant to article 21
of title 29, Colorado Revised Statutes, and monies received from the state of
Colorado pursuant to said statutes shall be deposited in said fund and expended
only for the purposes set forth in said law. (Res., 12-6-1982)
1-8-2: EMERGENCY TELEPHONE CHARGE:
   A.   Intergovernmental Agreement: The mayor is authorized to sign the
intergovernmental agreement attached to the ordinance codified herein creating
an emergency telephone service authority in order to establish and maintain an
emergency telephone service system in the county of Elbert, Colorado.
   B.   Charge Imposed; Rate: There is hereby imposed, pursuant to Colorado
Revised Statutes, section 29-11-101 et seq., upon all telephone exchange access
facilities within the town of Simla an emergency telephone charge in an amount
not to exceed two percent (2%) of the tariff rates as approved by the public
utilities commission or fifty cents ($0.50), whichever is less. Upon
recommendation of the emergency telephone service authority, the town board
may, by resolution, raise or lower the emergency telephone charge, but in no
event, shall such charge exceed the amount of two percent (2%) of the tariff as
approved by the public utilities commission.
   C.   Collection: Telephone service suppliers providing telephone service in
the town are hereby authorized to collect the emergency telephone charge
imposed by this section in accordance with Colorado Revised Statutes, section
29-11-101 et seq.
   D.   Effective Date: This section shall not be effective until the
intergovernmental agreement creating the emergency telephone service authority
and concerning the implementation of an emergency telephone service system is
signed by representatives of all parties to the agreement. (Ord. 172, 10-3-
1988)
CHAPTER 9
MUNICIPAL COURT AND JUDGE
SECTION:
1-9-1: Municipal Court
1-9-2: Municipal Judge
1-9-3: Municipal Court Clerk
1-9-4: Court Facilities And Supplies
1-9-5: Powers And Procedures
1-9-6: Fines And Costs
1-9-7: Failure To Appear
1-9-8: Court Of Record
1-9-9: Examine Complaints; Sessions
1-9-10: Issuance Of Bench Warrants And Citations
1-9-1: MUNICIPAL COURT:
There is hereby established a municipal court to hear and try all alleged
violations of ordained provisions of the town. (1990 Code)
1-9-2: MUNICIPAL JUDGE:
   A.   Appointment: The board of trustees, within thirty (30) days of its
first regular meeting following each biennial election, shall appoint a
municipal judge who shall preside over the municipal court for a term of two
(2) years and until his successor is duly appointed and qualified. Such
appointment shall be done in compliance with applicable state statutes 1 . The
municipal judge may be reappointed for a subsequent term. Any vacancy shall be
filled by appointment by the board of the unexpired term. (1990 Code)
   B.   Qualifications: The municipal judge shall meet the qualifications
required by statutes necessary for the Simla municipal court to meet the
requirements of a qualified court of record and such other qualifications as
the board may establish. Unless this code is subsequently amended, the
municipal judge shall be a person who is licensed and legally able to practice
law in the state of Colorado. (Ord. 245, 2-3-2004)
   C.   Acting Municipal Judge: In case of temporary absence, sickness or other
inability of the municipal judge to act, the board of trustees may appoint some
qualified person as acting municipal judge. (1990 Code)
   D.   Oath: The municipal judge shall take an oath or affirmation to support
the constitution of the United States and the state of Colorado. The municipal
judge shall faithfully perform his or her duties as municipal judge and shall
make a faithful accounting of any payment or monies coming into his or her
hands by virtue of the performance of the office of municipal judge. (Ord. 241,
10-7-2003)
   E.   Compensation: The municipal judge shall receive a fixed annual salary,
payable on a monthly basis, set by the board of trustees 2 .
   F.   Removal: The municipal judge may be removed during this term of office
only for cause, as provided by statute 3 . (1990 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. CRS 13-10-105.
2 1. CRS 13-10-107.
3 2. CRS 13-10-105.
1-9-3: MUNICIPAL COURT CLERK:
There is hereby established the position of clerk of the municipal court. The
municipal court clerk shall have such duties as are delegated to him or her by
the law, the state rules of municipal court, the municipal judge, and the town
board. The salary of the municipal court clerk shall be set by the town board.
(Res. 202-2014, 3-11-2014)
1-9-4: COURT FACILITIES AND SUPPLIES:
The board of trustees shall furnish the municipal court with suitable courtroom
facilities and sufficient funds for the acquisition of all necessary books,
supplies and furniture for the proper conduct of business. (1990 Code)
1-9-5: POWERS AND PROCEDURES:
The municipal judge shall have all judicial powers relating to the operation of
his court, subject to the Colorado rules of municipal court procedure
promulgated by the Colorado supreme court 1 . (1990 Code)
 
Notes
1 3. CRS 13-10-112.
1-9-6: FINES AND COSTS:
   A.   Fines Reported; Paid Monthly: All fines and costs collected or received
by the municipal court shall be reported and paid monthly to the town treasurer
and deposited in the general fund of the town. (1990 Code)
1-9-7: FAILURE TO APPEAR:
   A.   Any person who shall fail to appear at the time, date and place stated
in any summons or subpoena, after personal service, shall be guilty of a
violation of this section. A violation under this section shall constitute a
separate offense from any offense charged in the summons. The penalty for a
violation of this section shall be fixed by the municipal judge.
   B.   Continuance from the original date stated in a municipal summons shall
be liberally granted upon request of a defendant or his or her attorney.
   C.   In the event a defendant in any case before the municipal court shall
fail to appear according to the terms, requirements and conditions of his or
her bond for appearance, or after appearing shall depart the court without
leave, the bond shall automatically be forfeited. (1990 Code)
1-9-8: COURT OF RECORD:
The municipal court of the town shall be a "qualified municipal court of
record" as defined by Colorado Revised Statutes 13-10-102(3). (Ord. 245, 2-3-
2004)
1-9-9: EXAMINE COMPLAINTS; SESSIONS:
The municipal judge shall receive and examine affidavits and complaints, at all
times, for the violation of any town ordinance, and shall issue a summons or
warrant in every case where there is probable cause to believe that an offense
has been committed. He shall hold regular sessions of his court as determined
by resolution of the board of trustees. (1990 Code)
1-9-10: ISSUANCE OF BENCH WARRANTS AND CITATIONS:
   A.   Any individual held in another jurisdiction as a result of a Simla
municipal court warrant or citation, which jurisdiction is sixty (60) miles or
more from the town of Simla shall be released from said jurisdiction by
authority of the board and by direction of the town police department.
   B.   Release of the subject individual shall not result in dismissal of the
warrant or citation which shall remain active for the statutory period of time.
(Res. 43-1993, 11-3-1993)
CHAPTER 10
IDENTITY THEFT PREVENTION PROGRAM
SECTION:
1-10-1: Purpose
1-10-2: Administration
1-10-3: Risk Assessment
1-10-4: Red Flag Detection
1-10-5: Response To Red Flag
1-10-6: Personal Information
1-10-1: PURPOSE:
This program is intended to identify red flags that will alert employees when
new or existing accounts are opened using false information, protect against
the establishment of false accounts, methods to ensure existing accounts were
not opened using false information, and measures to respond to such events.
(Res. 150-2009, 4-14-2009)
1-10-2: ADMINISTRATION:
The person responsible for this program is the town clerk. The governing body
members of the utility are the board members. (Res. 150-2009, 4-14-2009)
1-10-3: RISK ASSESSMENT:
The town of Simla, Colorado, has conducted an internal risk assessment to
evaluate how at risk the current procedures are at allowing customers to create
a fraudulent account and evaluate if current (existing) accounts are being
manipulated. This risk assessment evaluated how new accounts were opened and
the methods used to access the account information. Using this information the
utility was able to identify red flags that were appropriate to prevent
identity theft:
   A.   New accounts opened in person;
   B.   New accounts opened via fax;
   C.   Account information accessed "in person";
   D.   Account information accessed via telephone (person). (Res. 150-2009, 4-
14-2009)
1-10-4: RED FLAG DETECTION:
The town of Simla, Colorado, identifies the following red flags to detect
potential fraud. These are not intended to be all inclusive and other
suspicious activity may be investigated as necessary:
   A.   Fraud or active duty alerts included with consumer reports;
   B.   Notice of credit freeze provided by consumer reporting agency;
   C.   Notice of address discrepancy provided by consumer reporting agency;
   D.   Other information is inconsistent with information provided by
applicant;
   E.   Application appears altered or destroyed and reassembled;
   F.   Application is for an address already being provided service;
   G.   Information provided is associated with known fraudulent activity
(e.g., address or phone number provided is same as that of a fraudulent
application);
   H.   Customer fails to provide all information requested;
   I.   Personal information provided is inconsistent with information on file
for a customer or looks otherwise suspicious;
   J.   Applicant cannot provide information requested beyond what could
commonly be found in a purse or wallet (lease agreement, deed, other);
   K.   Identity theft is reported or discovered. (Res. 150-2009, 4-14-2009)
1-10-5: RESPONSE TO RED FLAG:
Any employee that may suspect fraud or detect a red flag will implement the
following response as applicable. All detections or suspicious red flags shall
be reported to the senior management official. Add or delete items as
applicable:
   A.   Ask applicant for additional documentation and make a copy of the ID.
   B.   Contact the previous customer on the account.
   C.   Verify the validity of a change of address request.
   D.   Notify program manager: Any utility employee who becomes aware of a
suspected or actual fraudulent use of a customer or potential customer's
identity must notify the town clerk.
   E.   Notify law enforcement: The utility will notify the Simla police
department at 325 Pueblo Avenue, Simla, Colorado, of any attempted or actual
identity theft.
   F.   Do not open the account.
   G.   Close the account.
   H.   Do not attempt to collect against the account but notify authorities.
(Res. 150-2009, 4-14-2009)
1-10-6: PERSONAL INFORMATION:
   A.   Security Procedures Concerning A Utility Account: The town of Simla,
Colorado, adopts the following security procedures:
      1.   New accounts opened in person must provide an official photo ID.
      2.   New personal accounts opened via fax must include a copy of an
official photo ID and a separate signature to match.
      3.   Account information accessed "in person" only by those previously
approved to receive said account information or have the authority provided
through a legal proceeding.
      4.   Account information accessed via telephone (person) ask for (name,
address, pay history, etc.).
   B.   Additional Procedures To Prevent Loss Of Personal Information:
      1.   Paper documents, files and electronic media containing secure
information will be stored in locked file cabinets or in a locked room.
      2.   Only employees with a legitimate need will have keys to the room or
cabinet.
      3.   Access to sensitive information on computers will be controlled
using "strong" passwords. User names and passwords will be unique and will be
changed frequently.
      4.   Passwords will not be shared or posted near workstations. (Res. 150-
2009, 4-14-2009)
TITLE 2
BUSINESS REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
TRANSIENT SALES
SECTION:
2-1-1: Permit Required
2-1-2: Definitions
2-1-3: Exemptions
2-1-4: Permit Application
2-1-5: Verification Of Information
2-1-6: Conduct Of Business
2-1-7: Display Of Permit
2-1-8: Record Of Permits
2-1-9: Enforcement
2-1-10: Violations; Penalty
2-1-1: PERMIT REQUIRED:
   A.   It is unlawful for any person to solicit, peddle, or otherwise engage
in transient sales of goods, wares, merchandise, products, personal property or
services as defined in section
2-1-2 of this chapter within the town limits without first procuring a permit
as provided in this chapter.
   B.   It is unlawful to sell goods, wares, merchandise, chattels, or personal
property of any kind whatsoever at public auction or by hawking or peddling the
same within the town limits unless such person shall have first procured a
permit therefor, as hereinafter provided.
   C.   It is unlawful to operate for gain or hire within the town limits any
striking machine, ring game, ball and puppet game, cane rack, knife board, or
other similar game or device typically associated with carnival or fair type
activities unless such person shall have first procured a permit therefor, as
hereinafter provided, or unless the game is sponsored through a Town event.
Approval for such permit rests within the discretion of the Board of Trustees,
or its designee.
   D.   It is unlawful to hold or exhibit any boxing bout or any similar
performance within the town limits unless such person (or sponsor) shall have
first procured a permit therefor, as hereinafter provided. (Ord. 274, 12-8-
2009; amd. Ord 319, 8-11-2020)
2-1-2: DEFINITIONS:
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this chapter shall have
the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly
indicates a different meaning:
PEDDLER: Any person who travels from place to place by any type of conveyance,
carrying his or her goods, wares, and merchandise with him or her, offering and
exhibiting such goods, wares, and merchandise for sale; or any person who,
without traveling from place to place, sells or offers the same for sale from
any type of vehicle or conveyance. A peddler generally offers for sale,
consummates the sale, and delivers the goods at one and the same time to the
ultimate purchaser or consumer. Any person who solicits, orders, and as a
separate transaction, makes deliveries to the purchaser as part of a scheme or
design to evade the provisions of this definition shall be deemed to be
peddling and shall be subject to the provisions of this chapter.
SOLICITOR: Any person who travels from place to place within the town
boundaries by any type of conveyance taking or attempting to take orders for
the sale of goods, wares, and merchandise, personal property, or services of
any kind whatsoever for future delivery, whether or not such person has,
carries, or exposes for sale a sample of the subject of such sale, or whether
or not he or she is collecting advance payment on such sales.
TRANSIENT SELLER: Any person, either as principal or agent, who engages in a
business of selling and delivering goods, wares, and merchandise or services
from a temporary fixed location within the town of Simla, and who, in the
furtherance of such purpose hires, leases, uses, or occupies any building,
structure, room, apartment, lot, parking lot, street, sidewalk, or other place,
whether public or private, within the town, for the exhibition and sale of such
goods, wares, and merchandise, either privately or at an auction. Any person
who engages in transient selling shall not be relieved from complying with the
provisions of this chapter by reason of associating himself or herself with any
established local dealer, trader, merchant, or auctioneer, or by conducting
transient selling in connection with, as part of, or in the name of, any
established local dealer, trader, merchant, or auctioneer, or by conducting
transient selling in connection with, as part of, or in the name of any
established local dealer, trader, merchant, or auctioneer. If the conduct of
any person falls within the definitions of both peddler and transient selling
as contained in this section, he or she shall be deemed to be transient selling
for the purposes of this chapter. (Ord. 274, 12-8-2009)
2-1-3: EXEMPTIONS:
   A.   Religious, educational, and charitable nonprofit organizations shall be
exempt from the provisions of this chapter.
   B.   Town resident yard and garage sales of less than two (2) days in
duration and less than seven (7) days in any particular year shall be exempt
from the provisions of this chapter.
   C.   Vendors, merchants, exhibitors, and salespersons who exhibit,
demonstrate or solicit orders for goods, wares, or merchandise in conjunction
with a town sponsored event, or as part of an organized program of conventions,
professional meetings, trade association meetings, seminars, or other similar
meetings held at hotels, motels, or public or private meeting areas within the
town shall be exempt from the provisions of this chapter.
   D.   Any art or crafts fair, show, exhibition of arts, crafts, or similar
handiwork, or townwide celebrations, observances, or special events such as an
annual sidewalk or parking lot sale, which includes more than five (5)
exhibitions or merchants, shall be exempt from this chapter; provided that the
event sponsor advise the town clerk of the name and address of the event
sponsor, purpose and duration of the event, number of exhibitions or merchants
taking part in the event, and the location of the event.
   E.   Any person who exhibits a privately owned vehicle for sale on private
property or who temporarily parks a privately owned vehicle on which a "for
sale" sign is displayed shall be exempt from the provisions of this chapter.
   F.   Wholesale and distributor representatives servicing existing businesses
in the town or such representatives soliciting new business with existing
businesses in the town shall be exempt from the provisions of this chapter.
   G.   Vending machines, coin operated amusement machines, signs and
billboards shall be exempt from the provision of this chapter.
   H.   Private sales made by telephone or mail appointment where the solicitor
is invited to a private residence shall be exempt from the provisions of this
chapter. (Ord. 274, 12-8-2009)
2-1-4: PERMIT APPLICATION:
   A.   Any person transacting any business or selling activity defined in this
chapter shall first obtain from the town clerk a permit before engaging in any
such selling or soliciting activities. This permit shall be referred to as a
"transient sales permit". Applicants must be at least eighteen (18) years of
age. Each sales representative of the permitted business must have a copy of
the permit on his person.
   B.   Persons requesting a transient sales permit shall provide the following
information to the town clerk on an application furnished by the town clerk:
      1.   Applicant's name, date of birth, driver's license or state
identification number, or other form of photo identification, home and business
address and telephone numbers.
      2.   Description and license numbers of vehicles used for the transient
sales activity.
      3.   Name, date of birth, social security number, driver's license number
and home address of each other sales representative operating under this
permit.
      4.   Name of business firm represented and parent company, if any, state
tax resale number, federal tax identification number, and a brief description
of the nature of the business and goods being sold.
      5.   Location(s) and/or method the applicant intends to use to conduct
business (such as selling out of home or building, selling out of car/truck,
concession stand or booth, or door to door sales, etc.).
      6.   Length of time the applicant intends to be doing business under this
permit.
   C.   At the first regular meeting in January of every year, the Board of
Trustees shall adopt a fee schedule to reflect the cost for permits on a daily,
weekly, monthly, or yearly basis as may apply.
   D.   The transient sales permit shall contain the permit number, the name of
the applicant and his or her representatives, business name, description of the
type of goods to be sold or business activity, location where sales will take
place and/or method of sales, any special conditions, date of issuance and
expiration, and the town clerk's signature.
   E.   The town clerk may deny an application for, or suspend or revoke a
transient sales permit based on the criminal record, misrepresentation, fraud,
deceit, or impropriety of the applicant or his or her representatives or other
grounds that such transient business would not be in the best interest of the
town or its citizens. The town clerk shall give the applicant or permit holder
prompt written notice and an opportunity for an appeal hearing before the
board. If the applicant or permit holder requests an appeal hearing, the town
clerk shall provide written notice of the time and place of the hearing. Such
notice shall be mailed postage prepaid by regular United States mail at least
five (5) days prior to the date set for hearing. (Ord. 274, 12-8-2009; amd.
Ord. 319, 8-11-2020)
2-1-5: VERIFICATION OF INFORMATION:
Upon receipt of an application, the town clerk shall verify information on the
application and provide a copy of the application to the town police
department. The police department may conduct a criminal background check and
provide the results to the town clerk. The town clerk shall also coordinate the
application with the town maintenance chief to ensure the proposed transient
business will not interfere with public works operations during the specified
time period. (Ord. 274, 12-8-2009)
2-1-6: CONDUCT OF BUSINESS:
   A.   No solicitor, peddler, or transient seller shall:
      1.   Sell from any location within the town limits without a valid
transient sales permit.
      2.   Carry on his or her business upon any street, alley, sidewalk, park,
or any other public place unless specified on the permit that such business
activity in such public place be permitted thereunder.
      3.   Park or stand his or her sales stand, wagon, automobile, or other
vehicle upon any sidewalk or sidewalk area, street, alley, highway, or public
thoroughfare so as to obstruct free travel thereon.
      4.   Enter into a sale with any individual under the age of eighteen (18)
unless provided for in the permit.
      5.   Enter into any sale with any individual who appears to be
intoxicated or under the influence of drugs.
      6.   Knowingly provide any inaccurate, false, or misleading information
with respect to required records of any transactions conducted by the permit
holder.
      7.   Enter into any private residence or premises in conjunction with
transient sale business without having first been invited or requested by the
owner or occupant of such residence or premises.
   B.   Any of the above described prohibited activities committed by
solicitors, peddlers, or transient sellers shall be declared as a violation of
this section and shall be deemed to be a public nuisance. (Ord. 274, 12-8-2009)
2-1-7: DISPLAY OF PERMIT:
Transient sales permit holders are required to exhibit their license at the
request of any town officer or citizen, and each authorized sales
representative must have a copy of the permit on his or her person. In
addition, any transient sales permit holder(s) are required to exhibit their
driver's license or other state issued identification upon the request of any
town officer or employee. (Ord. 274, 12-8-2009)
2-1-8: RECORD OF PERMITS:
The town clerk shall maintain a record of all permits issued pursuant to the
provisions of this chapter and all permit fees shall be paid into the general
fund of the town of Simla. (Ord. 274, 12-8-2009)
2-1-9: ENFORCEMENT:
It shall be the duty of the town police department to enforce the provisions of
this chapter as to any solicitor, peddler, or transient seller found to be
engaged in business without a valid transient sales permit or in violation of
any other provision of this chapter. (Ord. 274, 12-8-2009)
2-1-10: VIOLATIONS; PENALTY:
Upon the conviction of any person or persons charged with a violation of this
chapter or any provisions hereof, such person or persons shall be guilty of a
petty offense and shall be subject to a fine as imposed by section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 274, 12-8-2009)
CHAPTER 2
AMUSEMENTS
ARTICLE A. POOL, BILLIARD AND GAME TABLES
SECTION:
2-2A-1: License Required
2-2A-2: License Fee
2-2A-3: Conditions of License
2-2A-4: Revocation of License
2-2A-5: Penalties
2-2A-1: LICENSE REQUIRED:
No person shall keep for gain or profit any pool table, billiard table or game
table within the Town limits without first obtaining a license therefor, as
hereinafter provided. (Ord. 139, 9-10-79)
2-2A-2: LICENSE FEE:
The fee for such license shall be twenty five dollars ($25.00) for each
establishment operating for gain containing pool tables, billiard tables, game
tables and automatic amusement devices/electronic games within the Town limits
of Simla; this fee is to be paid once each year or for each twelve (12) month
period that the business is in operation under the same ownership. (1990 Code)
2-2A-3: CONDITIONS OF LICENSE:
Hours: No person licensed under this Article shall keep such a room or place
open or permit any person to play therein between the hours of two o'clock (2:
00) A.M. and six o'clock (6:00) A.M. (Ord. 139, 9-19-79; 1990 Code; amd. Ord.
319, 8-11- 2020)
2-2A-4: REVOCATION OF LICENSE:
Upon failure to comply with this Article, the license may be revoked by a
majority vote of the Board of Trustees. (Ord. 139, 9-10-79)
   A.   Hearing: Within ten (10) days after the Town officials have so acted,
the Mayor shall call a hearing for the purpose of determining whether or not
the license should be revoked.
   B.   Notice of Hearing: Notice of hearing for license revocation shall be
given in writing setting forth specifically the grounds of the complaint and
the time and place of hearing. Such notice shall be sent to the licensee at his
last known address at least five (5) days prior to the date for the hearing.
   C.   Hearing Procedures: At the hearing, the licensee shall be permitted
counsel and shall have the right to submit evidence and cross-examine
witnesses. The Mayor shall preside and shall render the decision and
recommendation. (1990 Code)
2-2A-5: PENALTIES:
Any person who violates the terms and conditions of this Article shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction shall be fined in an amount as
provided in Section
1-4-1 of this Code. (Ord. 139, 9-10-79; 1990 Code)
ARTICLE B. PUBLIC DANCES
SECTION:
2-2B-1: License Required
2-2B-2: License Fee
2-2B-3: Litter Removal
2-2B-4: Exceptions
2-2B-5: Penalties
2-2B-1: LICENSE REQUIRED:
No person or persons, either as principal owner or employee shall conduct,
pursue, carry on or operate any public dance within the Town limits without
first obtaining a license from the Town Clerk and paying the fee hereinafter
provided and set forth by the Board of Trustees, unless excepted as provided
herein. (1990 Code)
2-2B-2: LICENSE FEE:
For every public dance, the manager, operator or owner thereof shall pay a
license fee of fifteen dollars ($15.00) for each and every dance; this fee to
be paid no later than twenty four (24) hours in advance of each dance. Failure
to do so may result in an additional fifteen dollar ($15.00) charge. (Ord. 139,
9-10-79; 1990 Code)
2-2B-3: LITTER REMOVAL:
It will be the responsibility of the manager, operator or owner to see that all
litter caused as a result of the functions therein shall be cleaned up by nine
o'clock (9:00) A.M. on the morning after the activity. Failure to do so will
result in the Town seeing that it is done and a bill for an appropriate amount
being sent to the owner of the business involved. (Ord. 139, 9-10-79)
2-2B-4: EXCEPTIONS:
The license and fee requirements set forth above shall not apply to local
school dances sponsored by the school, whether said dances occur upon the
school premises or other premises under the control of the school. The license
and fee provisions shall apply to public dances occurring upon school property
if said public dances are not sponsored or under the control of the school.
(1990 Code)
2-2B-5: PENALTIES:
Any person who violates the terms and conditions of this Article shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction shall be fined in an amount as
provided in Section
1-4-1 of this Code. (Ord. 139, 9-10-79; 1990 Code)
CHAPTER 3
SALES TAX
SECTION:
2-3-1: Purpose
2-3-2: Definitions For Sales Tax
2-3-3: Licenses Regarding Sales Tax (Rep. by Res. 4-1990, 5-10-1990)
2-3-4: Sales Tax; Property And Services Taxed
2-3-5: Exemptions To Sales Tax
2-3-6: Election For Sales Tax
2-3-7: Amount Of Sales Tax And Schedule
2-3-8: General Provisions For Sales Tax
2-3-9: Collection, Administration, And Enforcement Of Sales Tax
2-3-10: Amendments
2-3-11: Revenue Derived; Disposition
2-3-12: Refund Procedure
2-3-13: Severability
2-3-14: Saving Clause
2-3-15: Effective Date
2-3-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to impose a sales tax upon the sale at retail of
tangible personal property and the furnishing of certain services in the town
pursuant to the authority granted to incorporated towns of the state by article
2 of title 29, Colorado Revised Statutes, 1973, as amended. This chapter shall
be so construed and interpreted as to effectuate the general purpose of making
it uniform with the sales tax of the state, levied by article 26 of title 39,
Colorado Revised Statutes, 1973, as amended. (Ord. 177, 2-22-1990)
2-3-2: DEFINITIONS FOR SALES TAX:
For the purpose of this chapter, the definition of words herein contained shall
be as said words are defined in section 39-26-102, Colorado Revised Statutes,
1973, as amended, and said definitions are incorporated herein by this
reference. (Ord. 177, 2-22-1990)
2-3-3: LICENSES REGARDING SALES TAX:
(Rep. by Res. 4-1990, 5-10-1990)
2-3-4: SALES TAX; PROPERTY AND SERVICES TAXED:
   A.   There is hereby levied and there shall be collected and paid a sales
tax in the amount as in this chapter provided, upon the sale at retail of
tangible personal property and the furnishing of certain services, as provided
in section 39-26-104, Colorado Revised Statutes, as amended, which provisions
are incorporated herein by this reference.
   B.   There is hereby levied and there shall be collected and paid a sales
tax in the amount as in this chapter provided, upon the sale at retail of
tangible personal property.
   C.   The amount subject to tax shall not include the amount of any sales or
use tax imposed by article 26 of title 39, Colorado Revised Statutes, 1973, as
amended.
   D.   The gross receipts from sales shall include delivery charges, when such
charges are subject to the state sales and use tax imposed by article 26 of
title 39, Colorado Revised Statutes, 1973, as amended, regardless of the place
to which delivery is made. (Ord. 177, 2-22-1990)
   E.   The town's sales tax shall not apply to the sale of tangible personal
property at retail or the furnishing of services if the transaction was
previously subjected to a sales or use tax lawfully imposed on the purchaser or
user by another statutory or home rule municipality equal to or in excess of
four percent (4%). A credit shall be granted against the town's sales tax with
respect to such transaction equal in amount to the lawfully imposed local sales
or use tax previously paid by the purchaser or user to the previous statutory
or home rule municipality. The amount of the credit shall not exceed four
percent (4%). (Ord. 233, 2-5-2002, eff. 7-1-2002)
2-3-5: EXEMPTIONS TO SALES TAX:
   A.   All sales of tangible personal property on which a specific ownership
tax has been paid or is payable shall be exempt from sales tax when such sales
meet both the following conditions:
      1.   The purchaser is a nonresident of, or has its principal place of
business outside of the town; and
      2.   Such tangible personal property is registered or required to be
registered outside the limits of the town under the laws of the state.
   B.   For transactions consummated on or after January 1, 1986, the town's
sales tax shall not apply to the sales of construction and building materials,
as the term is used in 29-2-109, Colorado Revised Statutes, if such materials
are picked up by the purchaser and if the purchaser of such materials presents
to the retailer a building permit or other documentation acceptable to the town
evidencing that a local use tax has been paid or is required to be paid. (Ord.
177, 2-22-1990; amd. Ord. 319, 8-11-2020)
2-3-6: ELECTION FOR SALES TAX:
This tax proposal shall be submitted to an election by the registered electors
of the town pursuant to the municipal election code as adopted by the state.
(Ord. 177, 2-22-1990)
2-3-7: AMOUNT OF SALES TAX AND SCHEDULE:
   A.   There is hereby imposed upon all sales of tangible personal property
and the furnishing of certain services, as specified in section
2-3-4 of this chapter, a four percent (4%) sales tax upon the sale at retail of
tangible personal property and the furnishing of certain services as provided
in "The Emergency Retail Sales Tax Action of 1935" set forth in article 26 of
title 39, Colorado Revised Statutes, 1973, as amended, and any amendment
thereto enacted before or after the effective date of this chapter, which
provisions are incorporated herein by this reference. (Ord. 233, 2-5-2002, eff.
7-1-2002)
   B.   The imposition of the tax on the sale at retail of tangible personal
property and the furnishing of certain services subject to this tax shall be in
accordance with schedules set forth in the rules and regulations of the
department of revenue of the state of Colorado and in accordance with the
regulations enacted by separate resolution of the board of trustees of the
town. (Ord. 177, 2-22-1990)
   C.   In the event the limitation provided in Colorado Revised Statutes 29-2-
108 is to be exceeded in the town by a proposed county sales or use tax, such
limitation shall be exceeded by the stated rate in the town of Simla. (Ord.
233, 2-5-2002, eff. 7-1-2002)
2-3-8: GENERAL PROVISIONS FOR SALES TAX:
   A.   For the purpose of this chapter, all retail sales are consummated at
the place of business of the retailer, unless the tangible personal property
sold is delivered by the retailer or his agent to a destination outside the
limits of the town or to a common carrier for delivery to a destination outside
the limits of the town.
   B.   In the event a retailer has no permanent place of business in the town,
or has more than one place of business, the place or places at which the retail
sales are consummated for the purpose of the sales tax imposed by this chapter
shall be determined by the provisions of article 26 of title 39, Colorado
Revised Statutes, 1973, as amended, and by rules and regulations promulgated by
the department of revenue of the state of Colorado. (Ord. 177, 2-22-1990)
2-3-9: COLLECTION, ADMINISTRATION, AND ENFORCEMENT OF SALES TAX:
   A.   The collection, administration and enforcement of the sales tax imposed
by this chapter shall be performed by the director of revenue of the state of
Colorado in the same manner as the collection, administration and enforcement
of the state sales tax. Accordingly, the provisions of title 39, articles 21
and 26 and title 29, article 2, Colorado Revised Statutes, 1973, as amended,
and all rules and regulations promulgated by the director of revenue pertaining
to such collection, administration and enforcement, are incorporated herein by
this reference.
   B.   At the time of making his or her monthly return of the sales tax, as
required by this chapter, every retailer shall be entitled to subtract from the
tax so remitted a sum equal to three and one-third percent (3 1/3%) of the
total sales tax collected as his or her fee, said fee to be known as the
“vendor’s fee”.
   C.   If said retailer shall be delinquent in remitting said tax, he shall
forfeit the three and one-third percent (31/3%) provided in subsection B of
this section, unless good cause be shown for such delinquent remittance. (Ord.
177, 2-22-1990; amd. Ord. 319, 8-11-2020)
2-3-10: AMENDMENTS:
The board of trustees, by a majority vote, may amend, alter or change this
chapter. Such amendment, alteration or change need not be submitted to the
electors of the town for their approval. However, as to the rate of tax imposed
herein and as to the imposition of a sales tax upon any items or services
herein exempted, such change may only be made by majority vote of the electors
of the town. (Ord. 177, 2-22-1990; amd. Ord. 233, 2-5-2002, eff. 7-1-2002)
2-3-11: REVENUE DERIVED; DISPOSITION:
The revenues produced by the sales tax ordinance shall be used exclusively as
follows:
   A.   Twenty five percent (25%) of the sales tax revenue shall be used for
the repair, maintenance, construction, and general improvement of the town's
streets, roads, and alleys.
   B.   Seventy five percent (75%) of the sales tax revenue shall be used for
the funding, assistance in funding, and administration of law enforcement
within the town, including the hiring and retaining of qualified police
officers. (Ord. 233, 2-5-2002, eff. 7-1-2002)
2-3-12: REFUND PROCEDURE:
   A.   Procedure And Requirements: A refund shall be made or credit allowed
for any tax paid under protest by any purchaser or user, who has, or claims to
have, an exemption as provided in this chapter and who meets the following
procedure and requirements:
      1.   An application for refund of sales tax, paid under dispute by a
purchaser or user who claims an exemption pursuant to this chapter, shall be
made within sixty (60) days after the purchase of the goods, or services
whereon an exemption is claimed.
      2.   An application for refund of tax monies, paid in error or by
mistake, shall be made within three (3) years after the date of purchase of the
goods for which the refund is claimed.
      3.   Upon receiving the application, the town, through its authorized
representative, shall determine whether or not the application has merit and
shall inform the applicant of its decision within thirty (30) days of receiving
such application.
   B.   Hearing: An aggrieved applicant may, within ten (10) days after such
decision is mailed to him, petition the town for a hearing on the claim in
which case the town, or its designated agents, shall, upon notice to the
applicant, hold a hearing upon such application, taking such information or
evidence as may be material, and shall, thereafter, render its final decision
upon such application. The decision of the town must be issued within ninety
(90) days of the hearing. If the applicant remains aggrieved, he or she is
entitled to request or participate in the alternative dispute resolution
procedure as set forth in Colorado Revised Statutes 29-2-106.1(3) as
applicable. (Res. 87-1998, 10-10-1998)
2-3-13: SEVERABILITY:
It is hereby declared to the intention of the board of trustees that each and
every part of this chapter is severable, and if any term, phrase, clause,
sentence, paragraph or section of this chapter shall be declared
unconstitutional or invalid by the valid judgment or decree of any court of
competent jurisdiction, such unconstitutionality or invalidity shall not affect
any of the remaining phrases, clauses, sentences, paragraphs and sections of
this chapter since the same would have been enacted by the board of trustees
without the incorporation in this chapter of any such unconstitutional or
invalid term, phrase, clause, sentence, paragraph or section. (Ord. 177, 2-22-
1990; amd. Res. 87-1998, 10-10-1998)
2-3-14: SAVING CLAUSE:
Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to affect any right, duty, or
liability under any ordinances in effect prior to the effective date of this
chapter, and the same shall be continued and concluded under such prior
ordinances.
(Ord. 177, 2-22-1990; amd. Res. 87-1998, 10-10-1998)
2-3-15: EFFECTIVE DATE:
This chapter shall take effect July 1, 1990, and shall apply to transactions
consummated on or after said date 1 .
(Ord. 177, 2-22-1990; amd. Res. 87-1998, 10-10-1998)
 
Notes
1 1. Passed at general election April 3, 1990.
CHAPTER 4
LODGING OCCUPATION TAX
SECTION:
2-4-1: Definitions
2-4-2: Imposition Of Tax
2-4-3: Lodging Tax Exemptions
2-4-4: Payment Of Lodging Tax
2-4-5: Failure To Pay Lodging Tax
2-4-6: Penalty Clause
2-4-7: Inspection Of Records
2-4-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter:
                             A business providing rooms or accommodations for
                             overnight use by any person who pays to use,
                             possess or occupy, or has the right to use,
                             possess or occupy, any such room or accommodation
                             in a lodging facility under any concession,
                             permit, lease, contract, license to use, or other
LODGING OR LODGING BUSINESS: similar arrangement involving monetary
                             consideration and includes any hotel, bed and
                             breakfast, apartment hotel, lodging house, motel,
                             motor hotel, guest house, guest ranch, resort,
                             mobile home, mobile home park, recreation vehicle,
                             recreation vehicle park, auto court, inn, trailer
                             court, trailer park, campground, or hostel.
                             An individual, partnership, firm, joint
                             enterprise, limited liability company,
PERSON:                      corporation, estate or trust, or any group or
                             combination acting as a unit, but shall not
                             include the United States of America, the State of
                             Colorado, and any political subdivision thereof.
                             A vehicle designed to be used primarily as
                             temporary living quarters for recreational
                             camping, travel, or seasonal use that either has
RECREATIONAL VEHICLE:        its own motor power or is mounted on or towed by
                             another vehicle. "Recreational vehicle" includes
                             camping trailers, fifth wheel trailers, motor
                             homes, travel trailers, multipurpose trailers, and
                             truck campers.
                             Any parcel or tract of land under the control of
                             any person, organization, or governmental entity
RECREATIONAL VEHICLE PARK:   wherein two (2) or more camping unit sites are
                             offered for the use of the public or members of an
                             organization by rent or lease, including park-
                             owned recreational vehicles held out for rent.
SALE:                        The furnishing for consideration by any person of
                             lodging within the Town.
                             The tax payable by the vendor or the aggregate
                             amount of taxes due from a vendor during the
TAX:                         period for which the vendor is required to pay the
                             occupation tax on the provision of lodging under
                             this chapter.
TAXPAYER:                    The vendor obligated to pay the tax under the
                             terms of this chapter.
VENDOR:                      A person furnishing lodging for consideration
                             within the Town.
 
(Ord. 326, 1-4-2022)
2-4-2: IMPOSITION OF TAX:
   Effective July 1, 2022, there is hereby levied by the Town an occupation tax
on the provision of lodging upon every person or business that furnishes any
hotel room, motel room, lodging room, motor hotel room, bed and breakfast room,
guesthouse room, guest ranch room, mobile or manufactured home, recreational
vehicle within a recreational vehicle park, cabin or other similar
accommodation for consideration for less than one (1) month or thirty (30)
consecutive days within the Town in the amount of six dollars and 50/100
($6.50) per day, per occupied lodging room or accommodation.
(Ord. 326, 1-4-2022)
2-4-3: LODGING TAX EXEMPTIONS:
   The following transactions shall be exempt from the tax imposed by this
chapter:
   A.   Accommodations provided by the United States, the State of Colorado,
its departments and institutions, and the political subdivisions of the State
in their governmental capacities only.
   B.   Accommodations provided by those charitable, religious, and
eleemosynary organizations that have received from the Internal Revenue Service
status under Section 501(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code as a tax exempt
organization while in the conduct of their regular charitable, religious, or
eleemosynary functions and activities.
   C.   Accommodations provided to a person who is a permanent resident of a
hotel, motel, apartment hotel, lodging house, motor hotel, guest house, or
other similar business pursuant to a written agreement for a period of at least
one (1) month or thirty (30) consecutive days.
   D.   Accommodations provided to a person without monetary consideration
being paid to the vendor for such accommodations.
(Ord. 326, 1-4-2022)
2-4-4: PAYMENT OF LODGING TAX:
   Every lodging business shall remit the lodging occupation tax to the Simla
Town Clerk on or before the tenth day of each month on account of lodging
provided. The payment shall be accompanied by a return which shall contain the
information reflecting the payment which is due. The Town Clerk may require
further written information to ascertain the amount due and / or provide a form
to the lodging business as the Town Clerk may require for accurately
determining the amount due.
(Ord. 326, 1-4-2022)
2-4-5: FAILURE TO PAY LODGING TAX:
   If any business subject to the provisions of this chapter shall fail to pay
the taxes as herein provided, the full amount thereof shall be due and
collected from such lodging business and the same together with an additional
ten percent (10%) of the amount of taxes due, to cover administrative costs,
shall be and hereby are declared to be a debt due and owing from such business
to the Town. The Town Attorney upon direction of the Board shall commence and
proceed to final judgment and determination in any court of competent
jurisdiction an action at law to collect the debt, including reasonable
attorney fees incurred by the Town, in the name of the Town of Simla.
(Ord. 326, 1-4-2022)
2-4-6: PENALTY CLAUSE:
   If any officer, agent, or manager of a lodging business that is subject to
the provisions of this chapter shall fail, neglect or refuse to file the
lodging tax statement as required by
2-4-4 above, the officer, agent, manager, or person shall, on conviction
thereof, be punished by a fine not less than twenty-five dollars ($25.00) nor
more than five hundred dollars ($500.00). However, for each day after failing
to file the lodging tax statement, the officer, agent, manager, or person shall
be subject to a separate and distinct offense.
(Ord. 326, 1-4-2022)
2-4-7: INSPECTION OF RECORDS:
   The Town, its officers, agents, or representatives shall have the right at
all reasonable hours and times to examine the books and records of the lodging
businesses that are subject to the provisions of this chapter and to make
copies of the entries or contents thereof.
(Ord. 326, 1-4-2022)
TITLE 3
PUBLIC HEALTH AND SAFETY
CHAPTER 1
NUISANCES
SECTION:
3-1-1: Nuisances Prohibited
3-1-2: Weeds, Brush, Trees, And Shrubs
3-1-3: Rubbish, Refuse, Junk, And Litter
3-1-4: Junked Motor Vehicles On Private Property
3-1-5: Notice And Abatement
3-1-6: Penalties
3-1-1: NUISANCES PROHIBITED:
The conditions set forth in this chapter, occurring within the corporate limits
of the town of Simla, are hereby declared to be a nuisance and a threat and
danger to the health, welfare, and safety of the residents of the town.
Further, in addition to those conditions specifically set forth, as follows,
every other act or thing, done or made, permitted or allowed, or continued on
any property, public or private, by any person, firm, corporation, their
agents, servants or employees, detrimental to the health, or to the damage or
injury of any of the residents of this town, and any act or condition defined
by the statutes of the state of Colorado, to be a public nuisance, shall be
deemed to be a nuisance. (Ord. 246, 10-5-2004)
3-1-2: WEEDS, BRUSH, TREES, AND SHRUBS:
   A.   Weeds And Brush Kept Cut: No owner of any lot, block, or parcel of
ground within the town, nor any tenant or agent in charge thereof, shall allow
or permit weeds or brush to grow, or remain when grown, on such lot, block, or
parcel of ground, or on or along any sidewalk, road, alley, or other traveled
thoroughfare, adjoining the same, or in the alley behind the same, but such
weeds and brush shall be cut reasonably close to the ground and kept so cut
throughout the growing season. Excepted from this subsection shall be those
vacant parcels located within the town, which are one acre, or more, in size
and which are used for livestock grazing, forage, feed production, or other
agricultural purposes.
   B.   Undesirable Plants Or Noxious Weeds: In conformance with Colorado
Revised Statutes 35-5.5-101 et seq., i.e., the Colorado noxious weed act, the
town shall formulate and enact a management plan for the control and
eradication of noxious weeds, as defined by the state of Colorado, or as
designated by the town board of trustees or county of Elbert. The town board
shall designate, on a yearly basis, one or more of its employees to include in
his or her duties, the observation, location, and eradication of any noxious
weed as designated by state rule or has been declared a noxious weed by the
county of Elbert or the town board. Such employee shall receive the necessary
training and information from the state of Colorado or county of Elbert, as
necessary, to allow the employee to perform his other duties in eradicating
said noxious weeds. The town shall cooperate with, and shall integrate its
management plan with and through, by appropriate intergovernmental agreement
when applicable, the state of Colorado and county of Elbert whenever possible.
   C.   Trees And Shrubs On Town Rights Of Way Or Other Public Property: It is
the responsibility of property owners, adjoining public rights of way or other
similar public property, to plant, spray, prune, maintain, and/or remove trees
and shrubs located on platted streets, alleys, and public grounds, or within
the easements of all streets, alleys, and public grounds, as may be deemed
necessary by the town board of trustees, or its designated employee or officer,
to ensure public safety or to preserve or enhance the symmetry and beauty of
such public grounds. Further, the town shall be allowed to remove or cause to
be removed, any tree, shrub, or part thereof, which is in an unsafe condition
(such as impeding the sight of drivers of vehicles as to approaching or turning
vehicles), or which by reason of its nature is injurious to sewer or utility
lines, or other public utilities or improvements, or is infected with any
dangerous fungus, blight, insect, or disease. The town may also remove or cause
to be removed any tree or part thereof, which is protruding over any street or
roadway allowing less than a minimum of sixteen feet (16') clearance above the
grade of the roadway.
   D.   Trees And Shrubs To Be Removed From Private Property: The town shall
have the authority to require of any landowner on whose property is located
dead or diseased trees or shrubs, or portions of such trees or shrubs, to
remove such trees, shrubs, or portions thereof, when the condition of the
trees, shrubs, or portions thereof constitute a hazard to personal or public
safety or property, due to fire hazard, spread of fungus, insects, blight, or
disease, or other conditions which constitutes a potential threat to the health
of other trees or shrubs growing within the town. (Ord. 246, 10-5-2004)
3-1-3: RUBBISH, REFUSE, JUNK, AND LITTER:
   A.   Definitions: For the purpose of this code, the word "rubbish",
"refuse", "junk", or "litter" shall mean and include all types of rubbish,
including grass clippings, leaves, hay, straw, manure, shavings, excelsior,
paper, ashes, silt, discarded furniture, discarded appliances, containers,
boxes, glass, cans, bottles, garbage, trash, scrapped material and parts,
junked parts, waste and discarded building and construction material,
including, but not limited to, plaster, broken concrete, bricks, cinder blocks,
stones, wood, roofing material, wire, or metal binding, litter, sacks or loose,
discarded or unused material; and all rubbish of any kind or nature whatsoever;
and any other materials commonly known as rubbish or refuse of any kind or
character or by any means known. The term "rubbish" or "refuse" shall not
include nonhazardous, nontoxic, organic materials contained in compost bins or
piles or stored "mulch" commonly accepted and used by organic gardeners,
landscapers, and owners or tenants of property for private use in yards,
gardens, flowerbeds, landscaping, or similar legitimate use.
   B.   Deposit Of Rubbish, Refuse, Junk And Litter On Property Prohibited: No
person, landowner, tenant, entity, or one otherwise in possession or control of
real property located within the town of Simla, shall deposit or place, or
allow others to deposit or place, on his or her property, any rubbish, refuse,
junk, or litter in such a manner that the same is or tends to become a
nuisance, or which creates a foul odor, aesthetically unpleasing, unsanitary,
unhealthy, or dangerous or potentially dangerous condition upon the property or
to surrounding properties.
   C.   Allowing Rubbish, Refuse, Junk And Litter Prohibited: No person,
landowner, tenant, entity, or one otherwise in possession or control of real
property located within the town of Simla, shall in any manner allow rubbish,
refuse, junk, or litter to be located upon any public street, right of way,
alley, sidewalk, curb, gutter, wastewater facility, or other public place, or
upon his or her own property or premises, or the property or premises of
another.
   D.   Obstruction Of Streets And Alleyways Prohibited: It shall be unlawful
for any person to attempt to take action, or to cause in any way the
obstruction, blockage or in any way to inhibit the use of the town's streets,
alleyways or other property. Any such obstruction shall be deemed to be a
public nuisance and the town may take such immediate action as is necessary to
restore the public's use of the street, alleyway, or property, assessing the
cost thereof to the person or entity unlawfully obstructing, blocking, or
otherwise inhibiting the use of the town's streets, alleyways, or other public
property.
   E.   Removal Of Dead Animals: It shall be the responsibility of any
landowner, tenant, or other person in possession of real property within the
town to remove and properly dispose of the body of any pet or other animal that
may die while on the property or while under the control, possession, or care
of the person in possession of property.
   F.   Stagnant Water: It is the responsibility of property owners within the
town to prevent standing water on the property to the extent that the water
becomes stagnant, foul smelling, or otherwise become a breeding place for
mosquitoes, other harmful insects, or disease.
   G.   Explosive Or Inflammable Materials: Any owner, either of a residence or
business, which includes in or outside of such residence or business, materials
which have been determined by the chief of the fire department, building
inspector, a code enforcement officer (or similar town employee), or the chief
of police to be highly explosive or inflammable, shall not be allowed to
maintain such materials at his or her residence or business, unless he or she
has reasonably demonstrated to the appropriate town officer, that such
materials can be maintained in accordance with applicable fire codes, building
codes, and other relevant codes, in a safe manner. (Ord. 246, 10-5-2004)
3-1-4: JUNKED MOTOR VEHICLES ON PRIVATE PROPERTY:
   A.   Definitions: ”Junked motor vehicle” shall mean any vehicle not capable
of travel under its own power, or any vehicle not bearing current registration
plates, or if bearing such plates, which remains stationary or unused for more
than ninety (90) consecutive days; or any automobile, truck, or self-propelled
vehicle which does not comply with the minimum safety requirements of the
Colorado Motor Vehicle Law; provided, however, that such definition shall not
include antique vehicles, which are capable of travel under their own power but
which do not bear current registration plates when such vehicles are located
upon vehicle sale lots which hold current town business licenses.
   B.   Junked Motor Vehicles Prohibited: It shall be unlawful for any person,
whether owner, tenant, occupant, lessee, or otherwise, who resides upon or is
in control of property, to permit or allow any junked motor vehicle or parts
thereof to remain on the property longer than thirty (30) days; provided, that
this section shall not apply with regard to a vehicle or parts of a vehicle in
an enclosed building, a vehicle on the premises of a business enterprise
operated in a lawful place and manner when necessary to the operation of the
business enterprise and a privacy fence has been installed as described below,
or a vehicle, in an appropriate storage place or depository maintained for
impounded vehicles by the town or its agent.
      1.   Any such property which is a business enterprise operated in a
lawful place and manner which uses junked vehicles, discarded vehicles,
substantial wrecked vehicles, or parts thereof, as a part of and necessary to
the operation of the business enterprise, shall enclose the premises upon which
the vehicles are located, at the owner's expense, with a wooden privacy fence
or with other material that has prior approval of the board of trustees and
which is aesthetically acceptable to the board. The enclosure must be at least
six feet (6') in height. The fence shall completely surround the subject
property, or portions thereof, upon which the vehicle or vehicles, or parts are
located, which is visible from any other property. The fence shall be solid, or
otherwise designed so as to hide the property from public view. The fence shall
be approved and constructed prior to the operation of the business.
(Ord. 246, 10-5-2004; amd. Ord. 330, - - )
3-1-5: NOTICE AND ABATEMENT:
   A.   Notification: Except as set forth herein, upon determination by the
town, through its authorized and designated employees or agents, that a
violation of this chapter has occurred, the landowner, tenant, entity, or
person or persons, otherwise in control of the subject property shall be
notified of the violation and shall be required to remove the nuisance within a
specified amount of time as set forth below. The landowner, tenant, entity, or
person or persons otherwise in control of the subject property, or a
combination of the same, may also be subject to fines and costs as set forth in
this chapter. At the discretion of the town, through its authorized employees
or agents, the town may first seek to resolve the violation through personal
contact with the person or persons in control of the offending property, or by
certified mailing to the person or persons at their last known address.
   B.   Notice Of Violation: Should the person or persons in control of the
offending property, refuse to comply with the informal request to bring his or
her property into compliance, or should the town determine that a formal notice
should be served immediately, a formal notice of violation shall be either
personally served upon or mailed by certified mail to the person or persons in
control of the offending property. The notice of violation shall include a
description of the subject or offending property by street address and shall
inform the person of the applicable violation of this code. The notice shall
include a copy of the applicable portion of this code or other code adopted by
the town and shall further state what action the owner must take to bring his
or her property into compliance with the code and shall set a date certain, as
set forth below, in which time the subject property must be in compliance with
town codes.
   C.   Time For Compliance: Any notice of violation conveyed in accordance
with this code shall require the person or persons in control of the offending
property to bring his or her property into compliance within the following time
periods, measured as of the date of the notice (and not the date of receipt of
the notice):
 
         Section
5 days:  3-1-2, "Weeds, Brush, Trees, And Shrubs", of this chapter
         Subsections 3-1-3D Obstruction of Streets and Alleyways,
         E, F, and G of this chapter
         Subsections 3-1-3A, B, and C of this chapter
30 days: Section
         3-1-4, "Junked Motor Vehicles On Private Property", of this chapter
 
The town, through its employees or agents, may grant extensions of time for
compliance for good cause shown. The person or persons in control of the
offending property shall not be required to notice in the case of the
obstruction of town thoroughfares as described in subsection 3-1-3D of this
chapter and the town, through its agents or employees, make take immediate
action to remove the obstruction or blockage in such cases.
   D.   Failure To Comply: Should the person or persons in control of the
offending property fail or refuse to comply with the notice of violation within
the time set forth in the notice, the town shall cause a summons and complaint
to be served upon the person or persons, in accordance with the Colorado
municipal court rules of procedure, requiring the person or persons to appear
in Simla municipal court on a date certain to answer the charges against him or
her.
   E.   Abatement: The town, through its employees and agents, upon the
determination that a person or persons in control of the offending property,
has failed and refused to bring the subject property into compliance, and/or
upon a finding of the Simla municipal court judge that the subject property is
in violation of this chapter, may take such action as is necessary to abate the
nuisance and to bring the subject property into compliance. The whole cost,
thereof, including the town's reasonable attorney fees, together with five
percent (5%) for inspection and other incidental costs in connection therewith,
shall be assessed upon the lots and tracts of land from which the nuisance item
or items are removed. The assessment shall be a lien against each lot or tract
of land until paid and shall have priority over all other liens except general
taxes and prior special assessments.
   F.   Certification To County Treasurer: In the event the assessment for the
abatement of the nuisance is not paid within thirty (30) days of the final
billing of the town, or such deadline as established by the Simla municipal
court, whichever the case may be, the town may certify the sum owed to the
Elbert County treasurer who shall collect the assessment, together with a ten
percent (10%) penalty for cost of collection, in the same manner as other taxes
are collected. The certification described herein shall be applicable to those
violations set forth in section
3-1-2; subsections 3-1-3B, C, and D; and section
3-1-4 of this chapter. (Ord. 246, 10-5-2004; amd. Ord. 319, 8-11-2020)
3-1-6: PENALTIES:
   A.   The town representative shall first seek to resolve any violation of
this chapter by issuing a notice in letter form informing the property owner of
the violation and containing a time limit for the property owner to comply. The
written notice shall be delivered by the town representative, in person, or by
regular mail.
   B.   If the property owner fails to adequately respond to the informal
request to correct the offending condition existing on his or her property, the
town representative shall issue a formal notice and order as described in
section
3-1-5. Any such notice and order shall also require that a fine be paid in the
amount of forty five dollars ($45.00) within the time limit set forth in the
notice.
   C.   If the property owner fails to correct the offending condition existing
on his or her property within the time set forth in the notice and order, the
town shall issue a summons and complaint requiring the property owner to appear
in Simla Municipal Court at a date certain. Should the property owner be found
guilty of violating this chapter, he or she shall be subject to a fine not to
exceed the sum of seven hundred dollars ($700.00) for each day that the
violation exists or for each occurrence, in addition to the abatement costs
described in this section. (Ord. 319, 8-11-2020)
CHAPTER 2
DANGEROUS BUILDINGS
SECTION:
3-2-1: Purpose And Scope
3-2-2: Definitions
3-2-3: Enforcement
3-2-4: Notice And Orders Of The Building Official
3-2-5: Abatement
3-2-6: Penalties
3-2-1: PURPOSE AND SCOPE:
It is the purpose of this chapter to provide a just, equitable, and practicable
method whereby buildings or structures which from any cause endanger the life,
limb, health, morals, property, safety, or welfare of the general public or
such building's occupants or neighbors, be required to be repaired, vacated, or
demolished. The provisions of this chapter shall apply to all dangerous
buildings, as herein defined, which are now in existence or which may hereafter
become dangerous buildings or structures within the town of Simla. (Ord. 246,
10-5-2004)
3-2-2: DEFINITIONS:
A "dangerous building" is any building or structure deemed to be dangerous
under any of the following provisions:
   A.   Whenever any door, aisle, passageway, stairway or other means of exit
is not of sufficient width or size or is not so arranged as to provide safe and
adequate means of exit in case of fire or panic.
   B.   Whenever the walking surface of any aisle, passageway, stairway, or
other means of exit is so warped, worn, loose, torn, or otherwise unsafe as to
not provide safe and adequate means of exit in case of fire or panic.
   C.   Whenever the stress in any materials, member, or portion thereof, due
to all dead and live loads, is more than one and one-half (11/2) times the
working stress or stresses allowed by the uniform building code (1994 edition)
for new buildings of similar structure, purpose, or location.
   D.   Whenever any portion thereof has been damaged by fire, earthquake,
wind, flood, or by any other cause, to such an extent that the structural
strength or stability thereof is materially less than it was before such
catastrophe and is less than the minimum requirements of the uniform building
code for new buildings of similar structure, purpose, or location.
   E.   Whenever any portion or member or appurtenance thereof is likely to
fail, or to become detached or dislodged, or to collapse and thereby injure
persons or damage property.
   F.   Whenever any portion of a building, or any member, appurtenance, or
ornamentation on the exterior thereof is not of sufficient strength or
stability, or is not so anchored, attached or fastened in place so as to be
capable of resisting a wind pressure of one-half (1/2) of that specified in the
uniform building code for new buildings of similar structure, purpose, or
location without exceeding the working stresses permitted in the uniform
building code for such buildings.
   G.   Whenever any portion thereof has wracked, warped, buckled, or settled
to such an extent that walls or other structural portions have materially less
resistance to winds or earthquakes than is required in the case of similar new
construction.
   H.   Whenever the building or structure, or any portion thereof, because of
dilapidation, deterioration, decay, faulty construction, removal, movement or
instability of any portion of the ground necessary for the purpose of
supporting such building; the deterioration, decay or inadequacy of its
foundation; or any other cause, is likely to partially or completely collapse.
   I.   Whenever, for any reason, the building or structure, or any portion
thereof, is manifestly unsafe for the purpose for which it is being used.
   J.   Whenever the exterior walls or other vertical structural members list,
lean, or buckle to such an extent that a plumb line passing through the center
of gravity does not fall inside the middle one-third (1/3) of the base.
   K.   Whenever the building or structure, exclusive of the foundation, shows
thirty three percent (33%) or more damage or deterioration of its supporting
member or members, of fifty percent (50%) damage or deterioration of its
nonsupporting members, enclosing or outside walls, or coverings.
   L.   Whenever the building or structure has been so damaged by fire, wind,
earthquake, or flood, or has become so dilapidated or deteriorated as to become
an attractive nuisance to children; a harbor for vagrants, criminals, or
immoral persons; or as to enable persons to resort thereof for the purpose of
committing unlawful or immoral acts.
   M.   Whenever a building or structure, used or intended to be used for
dwelling purposes, because of inadequate maintenance, dilapidation, decay,
damage, faulty construction or arrangement, inadequate light, air, or
sanitation facilities, or otherwise, is determined by the town agent, agents of
Elbert County or the state of Colorado health officer or caseworker to be
unsanitary, unfit for human habitation, or in such a condition that its likely
to cause sickness, disease, or injury to occupants or others.
   N.   Whenever any building or structure, because of obsolescence,
dilapidated condition, deterioration, damage, inadequate exits, lack of
sufficient fire resistive construction, faulty electric wiring, gas connections
or heating apparatus, or other cause, as determined by the town fire marshal,
or appropriate county or state officials, to be a fire hazard.
   O.   Whenever any building or structure is in such a condition as to
constitute a public nuisance known to the common law or by state statute or by
town ordinance or code.
   P.   Whenever any portion of a building or structure remains on a site after
the demolition or destruction of the building or structure or whenever any
building or structure is abandoned for a period in excess of six (6) months so
as to constitute such building or portion thereof an attractive nuisance or
safety hazard to the public. (Ord. 246, 10-5-2004)
3-2-3: ENFORCEMENT:
   A.   The town board shall appoint the town building inspector, or other
appropriate officer, hereinafter referred to as the "building official" to
enforce the provisions of this chapter. The person so appointed by the town
shall have the minimum training or education necessary to interpret and enforce
the provisions of this chapter and the codes referred to therein.
   B.   The building official and fire marshal are hereby authorized to make
such inspections and take such actions as may be required to enforce the
provisions of this chapter.
   C.   When it is necessary to make an inspection to enforce the provisions of
this chapter, or when the building official or the building official's
authorized representative, has reasonable cause to believe that there exists in
a building or upon a premises a condition which is contrary to or in violation
of this chapter which makes the building or premises unsafe, dangerous, or
hazardous, the building official may enter the building, premises, or
structure, at reasonable times to inspect or to perform the duties imposed by
this chapter, provided that if such building, structure, or premises are
occupied that credentials be presented to the occupant and entry requested. If
such building or premises be unoccupied, the building official shall first make
a reasonable effort to locate the owner or other persons having charge or
control of the building, structure, or premises, and request entry. If entry is
refused, the building official shall have all recourse to the remedies provided
by law to secure entry including the obtainment of an order through the Simla
municipal court.
   D.   All buildings or portions thereof which are determined after inspection
by the building official to be dangerous as defined in this chapter are hereby
declared to be public nuisances and shall be abated by repair, rehabilitation,
demolition, or removal in accordance with the procedures set forth in this
chapter.
   E.   It shall be unlawful for any person, persons, corporations or other
legal entities, to erect, construct, enlarge, alter, repair, move, improve,
remove, convert, or demolish, equip, use, occupy or maintain any building or
structure or cause or permit the same to be done in violation of the terms of
this chapter. Those persons or entities in violation of the provisions of this
chapter may be subject to a fine not to exceed five hundred dollars ($500.00)
for each violation of this chapter, for each day that the property is not in
compliance with the provisions of this chapter. (Ord. 246, 10-5-2004)
3-2-4: NOTICES AND ORDERS OF THE BUILDING OFFICIAL:
   A.   When the building official has inspected or caused to be inspected any
building or structure and has found and determined that such building or
structure is a "dangerous building", as defined herein, the building official
shall commence proceedings to cause the repair, vacation, or demolition of the
building.
   B.   Upon such finding, the building official shall issue a notice and order
directed to the record owner of the building and/or the occupants of the
building. The notice and order shall contain the following information:
      1.   The street address and a legal description sufficient for
identification of the premises upon which the building is located.
      2.   A statement that the building official has found the building to be
dangerous with a brief and concise description of the conditions found to
render the building dangerous under the provisions of this chapter.
      3.   A statement of the action required to be taken as determined by the
building official.
         a.   If the building official has determined that the building or
structure must be repaired, the order shall require that the owner obtain all
necessary permits, if any, and that all repairs commence within such time (not
to exceed 60 days from the date of the order) and completed within such time as
the building official shall determine is reasonable under all of the
circumstances.
         b.   If the building official has determined that the building or
structure must be vacated, the order shall require that the building or
structure shall be vacated within a time certain from the date of the order as
determined by the building official to be reasonable under the circumstances.
         c.   If the building official has determined that the building or
structure must be demolished, the order shall require that the building be
vacated within such time as the building official shall determine is reasonable
(not to exceed 60 days from the date of the order); that all required permits
be secured therefor within sixty (60) days from the date of the order; and that
the demolition be completed within such time as the building official shall
determine is reasonable under the circumstances.
      4.   Statements advising the owner that if any required repair or
demolition work is not commenced within the time specified, the building
official will order the building vacated and posted to prevent further
occupancy until the work is completed and may proceed to cause the work to be
done and charge the costs thereof against the property or its owner.
      5.   Statements advising that any person having any record title or legal
interest in the building may appeal from the notice and order of any action of
the building official to the town board, provided that the appeal is made in
writing and filed with the town clerk within fifteen (15) days from the date of
service of such notice and order; and that failure to appeal in a timely manner
will constitute a waiver of all right to an appeal hearing. Any appeal shall
state with specificity the reasons for the appeal.
      6.   Statements advising that the order may be enforced by the municipal
court for the town of Simla.
      7.   Service of the notice and order may be made upon the owner of the
property by either mailing a copy of the notice and order to the owner by
certified mail, delivering a copy of the notice and order to the owner at his
address or wherever he or she may be found, and/or by posting such notice and
order to the front door or other visible portion of the subject property. (Ord.
246, 10-5-2004)
3-2-5: ABATEMENT:
   A.   Refusal To Comply: Should the owner, or person or persons in control of
the dangerous building fail or refuse to comply with the notice and order
issued by the building official, and further fail to appeal to the town board
within the time required by this chapter, the building official shall cause a
summons and complaint to be served upon the person or persons, in accordance
with the Colorado municipal court rules of procedure, requiring the person or
persons to appear in Simla municipal court on a date certain to answer the
charges against him or her. Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to
prevent the building official from taking immediate action to abate the
dangerous building if in the building official's discretion immediate action is
required due to an imminent and immediate hazard, danger, and safety factor
existing to the public at large if immediate action is not taken.
   B.   Abatement: The town, through the building inspector, upon the
determination that an owner, person, or persons, in control of a dangerous
building, has failed and refused to bring the dangerous building into
compliance, and/or upon a finding of the Simla municipal court judge that the
subject property is in violation of this chapter, may take such action as is
necessary to abate the dangerous building and to bring the subject property
into compliance. The whole cost, thereof, including the town's reasonable costs
(including legal, engineering, and other technical expenses) incurred in
enforcing this chapter, together with five percent (5%) for inspection and
other incidental costs in connection therewith, shall be assessed upon the lots
and tracts of land which have been adjudicated to be a dangerous building. The
assessment shall be a lien against each lot or tract of land until paid.
   C.   Certification To County Treasurer: In the event the assessment for the
abatement of the dangerous building is not paid within thirty (30) days of the
final billing of the town, or of such deadline as is established by the Simla
municipal court, whichever the case may be, the town may certify the sum owed
to the Elbert County treasurer who shall collect the assessment, together with
a ten percent (10%) penalty for cost of collection, in the same manner as other
taxes are collected. (Ord. 246, 10-5-2004)
3-2-6: PENALTIES:
   A.   Those persons or entities in violation of the provisions of this
chapter may be subject to a fine not to exceed five hundred dollars ($500.00)
for each violation of this chapter, for each day that the property is not in
compliance with the provisions of this chapter. (Ord. 246, 10-5-2004)
CHAPTER 3
REFUSE REGULATIONS
SECTION:
3-3-1: Burning Of Garbage And Waste Material
3-3-2: Collection Service
3-3-3: Penalties
3-3-1: BURNING OF GARBAGE AND WASTE MATERIAL:
   A.   No person shall set on fire or burn any garbage, rubbish, leaves, waste
material or any hay, grass clippings, or other combustible materials. The
burning of combustible materials shall not apply to the local school for annual
activities such as homecoming bonfires that are supervised by the fire
department and other qualified supervision. Furthermore, other controlled burns
shall be allowed by permit under the supervision of the fire department. (Ord.
246, 10-5-2004)
3-3-2: COLLECTION SERVICE:
   A.   The town of Simla, through its board of trustees, is authorized to
enter into an exclusive contract or agreement with any qualified person or
entity for the collection and disposal of garbage and refuse throughout the
town. The term for the agreement shall be set by the board and the board shall
set such bid qualifications, requirements, and procedures, as the board in its
sole discretion determines to be in the best interests of the citizens based on
all circumstances.
   B.   The refuse contractor with whom the town contracts shall furnish
garbage and refuse collection service to all persons and businesses residing or
located within the town boundaries. Each residence and/or business shall
receive the service and shall be billed for such service regardless of whether
the resident or business uses the service or not.
   C.   The services to be provided by the refuse contractor, including the
providing of refuse containers, pick up times, scheduling of rates and charges,
the liability insurance to be carried by the refuse contractor, and the rules
and regulations set forth by the refuse contractor, shall be established in the
agreement between the town and the refuse contractor. The refuse contractor
shall provide each residence and business with such information prior to
commencing service. Further copies of the rules and regulations, together with
the agreement between the town and the refuse contractor shall be on file for
examination at the office of the town clerk.
   D.   The town may, by agreement with the refuse contractor, be the
collection agent for the garbage and refuse collection service. In such event,
the town shall be compensated for such service by the refuse contractor in an
amount to be set by the agreement between the town and the refuse contractor.
Further, the charges for the service shall be included in the monthly water and
wastewater charges assessed by the town to each residence and business. The
same billing dates, delinquency findings, late charges, fees, and remedies as
set forth in section
6-3A-11 of this code concerning the water service shall apply in the assessment
and collection of monthly charges for the garbage collection service.
   E.   In the event a renter, relative, or someone other than the owner of a
residence or business refuses or is unable, for any reason to pay the charges
for refuse and garbage removal, the owner of the property, shall ultimately be
responsible for the payment of the charges.
   F.   The dumping of rubbish and solid wastes within the town shall be
prohibited except as may be established in the agreement between the town and
the refuse contractor.
   G.   No collection of radioactive materials, agricultural or industrial
chemical wastes, sludges, septic tank pumpings, animal carcasses or similar
organic material, or other hazardous wastes shall be included in the collection
service. (Ord. 246, 10-5-2004)
3-3-3: PENALTIES:
Those persons or entities in violation of any of the provisions of this chapter
may be subject to a fine not to exceed five hundred dollars ($500.00) for each
violation of this chapter, for each day that the violation occurs. (Ord. 246,
10-5-2004)
CHAPTER 4
MULTIHAZARD MITIGATION PLAN
SECTION:
3-4-1: Adoption Of Plan
3-4-1: ADOPTION OF PLAN:
The town of Simla recognizes the threat that natural hazards pose to people and
property within our community and undertaking hazard mitigation actions will
reduce the potential for harm to people and property from future hazard
occurrences.
The U.S. congress passed the disaster mitigation act of 2000 ("disaster
mitigation act") emphasizing the need for predisaster mitigation of potential
hazards. The disaster mitigation act made available hazard mitigation grants to
state and local governments and an adopted multihazard mitigation plan is
required as a condition of future funding for mitigation projects under
multiple FEMA pre- and post-disaster mitigation grant programs. The town of
Simla participated in the FEMA prescribed mitigation planning process to
prepare this multihazard mitigation plan and the Colorado division of emergency
management and federal emergency management agency region VIII officials have
reviewed the "Elbert County multihazard mitigation plan", and approved it
contingent upon this official adoption of the participating governing body.
The town of Simla desires to comply with the requirements of the disaster
mitigation act and to augment its emergency planing efforts by formally
adopting the Elbert County multihazard mitigation plan and adoption by the
governing body for the town of Simla demonstrates the jurisdiction's commitment
to fulfilling the mitigation goals and objectives outlined in this multihazard
mitigation plan. Adoption of this legitimizes the plan and authorizes
responsible agencies to carry out their responsibilities under the plan.
Therefore, be it resolved, that the town of Simla adopts the "Elbert County
multihazard mitigation plan" as an official plan.
(Res. 155-2009, 11-10-2009)
CHAPTER 5
CHRONIC NUISANCES AND DISORDERLY HOUSES
SECTION:
3-5-1:    Purpose And Scope
3-5-2: Definitions
3-5-3: Violation
3-5-4:    Procedure
3-5-5:    Enforcement
3-5-6:    Penalties
3-5-1:    PURPOSE AND SCOPE:
   The purpose of this Chapter is to protect the health, safety, and welfare of
the residents of the Town by eliminating the proliferation of chronic nuisance
properties and disorderly houses with occupants who disturb the peace and
tranquility of their neighborhoods. Chronic nuisance properties and disorderly
houses present grave health, safety, and welfare concerns, which the property
owners or persons in charge of such properties have failed to take corrective
action to abate the nuisance condition or disorderly house condition. Also,
chronic nuisance properties and disorderly houses are a financial burden to the
Town by the repeated calls for service to the properties because of the
nuisance activities that repeatedly occur or exist on such properties. This
Chapter is enacted to remedy nuisance and disorderly house conduct that is
particularly disruptive to the quality of life of the Town's residents and that
repeatedly occur or exist at certain properties by providing a process for
abatement. This Chapter also ameliorates those conditions and holds accountable
those persons responsible for such property conditions. Nothing contained in
this Chapter is intended to dissuade, discourage, or prohibit any person whose
safety is in jeopardy, or who is a victim of domestic violence, from contacting
the appropriate authorities, including without limitation the Police
Department.
(Ord. 338, 5-14-2024)
3-5-2: DEFINITIONS:
   As used in this chapter:
 
                       To repair, replace, remove, destroy or otherwise remedy
                       a condition which constitutes a violation of this
ABATE:                 Chapter by such means and in such a manner and to such
                       an extent as the Town determines is necessary in the
                       interest of the general health, safety and welfare of
                       the community.
CHRONIC NUISANCE:      Property on which three (3) or more nuisance activities
                       occur or exist during any sixty (60) day period.
                       A continuing condition which constitutes a nuisance
CONDITION OF NUISANCE: whether or not the perpetrator of the nuisance is
                       present.
                       Any building that the Simla Police Department has
                       visited three (3) times in a sixty (60) day period in
                       response to situations created by the owner, renter, or
                       person otherwise responsible for, in custody of, or
                       entrusted with a given dwelling unit, residential
                       property, or commercial building that have a tendency to
                       unreasonably disturb the community, the neighborhood or
                       an ordinary individual in the vicinity of said building,
                       including without limitation any loud or raucous noise
                       clearly audible from fifty feet (50') or more from the
                       residence or that alarms or disturbs another so as to
                       create a breach of the peace; or where any minor is
DISORDERLY HOUSE:      permitted to consume intoxicating drinks of any kind;
                       illegal possession or dealing of controlled substances;
                       illegal possession or discharge of firearms; disorderly
                       conduct; gambling; assault and battery; felony criminal
                       activity; or prostitution. For purposes of this section,
                       the following persons may be cited for a violation: (1)
                       the owner of an owner occupied residence; (2) the renter
                       or tenant of a rental property; (3) in the absence of
                       the owner or renter, any person within a residential
                       dwelling unit where such unit is in violation of this
                       section; (4) any person permitted by the owner or renter
                       of a residential dwelling unit to utilize such space at
                       a time when such unit is in violation of this section.
                       Any nuisance (as defined in Chapter 1, Title 3 of the
                       Simla Town Code) that occurs or exists upon a property
                       or occurs or exists within two hundred (200) feet of a
                       property. The nuisance activity must involve the person
NUISANCE ACTIVITY:     in control of the property and/or any person associated
                       with the person in control of the property. A person is
                       associated with the person in control of the property if
                       he or she is a guest or invitee of the person in control
                       of the property. (Ord. 338, 5-14-2024)
 
3-5-3: VIOLATION:
   A.   Any property within the Town of Simla which is a chronic nuisance
property or a disorderly house is in violation of this chapter and subject to
its remedies; and
   B.   Any person in charge who permits a property to be a chronic nuisance
property or disorderly house shall be in violation of this chapter and subject
to its remedies.
   C.   Each calendar day that a violation of this chapter occurs, or each day
upon which any of the chronic nuisance or disorderly house activities occur,
shall be considered a separate and distinct offense.
(Ord. 338, 5-14-2024)
3-5-4: PROCEDURE:
   A.   When the chief of police or his designee receives documentation
confirming the occurrence of three (3) of more nuisance or disorderly house
activities within a sixty (60) day period on the property, the chief of police,
or his designee, shall independently review such reports to determine whether
they describe a chronic nuisance or a disorderly house. Should the chief of
police determine that the reports describe three (3) or more nuisance or
disorderly house activities as described in this section, the chief of police
shall notify the property owner, the person in charge of the property, or any
non-owner occupants of the building in writing that the property is in danger
of becoming declared a chronic nuisance property or a disorderly house.
   B.   The notice shall contain:
      1.   The street address or legal description sufficient for
identification of the property;
      2.   A statement that the Simla Police Department has information that
the property may be a chronic nuisance property or disorderly house, with a
concise description of the nuisance or disorderly house activities that may
exist or that have occurred, and the dates of the nuisance or disorderly house
conduct, activity, or condition;
      3.   A demand that the owner of the property shall meet with Town
representatives (including the Simla Police Department) within ten (10) days
from date of service of the notice, or such other time as is agreed upon by the
Chief of Police or his/her designee, to discuss the nuisance or disorderly
house activities and create a plan to abate the chronic nuisance or disorderly
house. During this meeting, the owner of the property shall have an opportunity
to abate the nuisance or disorderly house activities giving rise to the
violation; and
      4.   A statement describing that if the Town seeks legal action, the
property could be subject to closure, civil penalties and/or costs assessed up
to one hundred dollars ($100.00) per day after the notice of the chronic
nuisance property or disorderly house is received.
   C.   Service of the notice shall be made by posting a copy of this notice,
and all required documentation hereunder, on the door of the property, by
personal service, or by first class mail, postage prepaid, return receipt
requested, addressed to the property believed to be a chronic nuisance property
or disorderly house, or such other place which is likely to give notice of the
determination by the Chief of Police.
   D.   At the abatement meeting, the owner of the property shall provide to
the Town the following documentation:
      1.   A list of the names of all tenants or other persons authorized to
reside or presently residing in the building and the units they occupy;
      2.   Copies of all leases or occupancy agreement(s) with tenants or other
persons residing in the building (confidential, personal, or financial
information may be redacted);
      3.   Contracts with any property manager or other person responsible for
the orderly operation of the building; and
      4.   Proof of building ownership.
   E.   During this meeting, the owner of the property shall agree to take
corrective action to address the chronic nuisance or disorderly house. Such
corrective actions shall be memorialized in a written agreement at the
conclusion of the meeting with the Town and shall be implemented within one (1)
week of the meeting, unless another date is agreed upon by the Town. The Chief
of Police or his/her designee has the authority to execute such agreements on
behalf of the Town. If the property owner does not implement the agreed upon
correction action, this shall be considered a violation of this chapter, and
the Town may file a civil action in court seeking all remedies permitted by law
as set forth below.
   F.   If the same building is classified as a chronic nuisance property or a
disorderly house by the Simla Police Department within three (3) years after
the written agreement is reached, the Town shall be under no obligation to meet
with the owner of the property again, and after providing notice to the
property owner and if approved by the Board of Trustees, the Town may condemn
the property and prohibit occupancy. The Town may also proceed directly with a
civil action in court seeking all remedies permitted by law as set forth below.
   G.   The failure of any person to receive notice that the property may be a
chronic nuisance property or disorderly house shall not invalidate or otherwise
affect the proceedings under this section.
   H.   Any person that receives a notice by certified mail may request a
hearing within ten (10) business days that the notice is received by the
property owner. The request for a hearing must be in writing and mailed or
hand-delivered to the Town Clerk or his/her designee. The hearing will occur
within fourteen (14) days of the date of the request, unless otherwise agreed
upon. If the owner and/or occupant fails to request a hearing within the time
and in the manner required under this section, the right of such person to a
hearing is waived.
(Ord. 338, 5-14-2024)
3-5-5: ENFORCEMENT:
   A.   It shall be the duty of the Simla Police Department to administer and
enforce the provisions of this chapter. If any of the following instances
occur, the Town may move to condemn the property and prohibit occupancy, and/or
file a legal action against the property owner or violator seeking any and all
remedies permitted by law:
      1.   The property owner refuses to meet with representatives of the Town
as set forth in section
3-5-4(B)(3) and section
3-5-4(D);
      2.   The property owner refuses to agree to take effective measures to
address the chronic nuisance or disorderly house violation;
      3.   The property owner takes ineffective measures to address the
disorderly house as determined by the Town;
      4.   The property owner fails to properly implement the abatement actions
agreed upon in the agreement with the Town to address the chronic nuisance or
disorderly house; or
      5.   If the Town determines in its discretion that the chronic nuisance
property or disorderly house is having a significant impact on the public
health, safety, or welfare of the Town.
   B.   If the Town determines condemnation or prohibition of occupancy is
appropriate to address the chronic nuisance or disorderly house, the Town shall
provide the property owner and all non-owner occupants of the building written
notice of said condemnation or prohibition at least thirty (30) days in
advance.
   C.   If the Town determines legal action is necessary against the owner and/
or violator of the chronic nuisance property or disorderly house, the Town
shall name the non-owner occupants of the building and the property owner as
parties in the legal action.
(Ord. 338, 5-14-2024)
3-5-6: PENALTIES:
   A.   The Town shall first seek to resolve any violation of this chapter by
issuing a notice as described in section
3-5-4.
   B.   If the property owner fails to adequately respond to the notice or
correct the chronic nuisance or disorderly house condition as described in this
chapter, they shall be found in violation of this chapter and shall be subject
to a penalty not to exceed seven hundred ($700.00) or as otherwise provided in
section
3-1-6(C). Each violation and each day a violation under this Chapter continues,
shall constitute a separate offense. In addition, if the Town is the prevailing
party in any enforcement action, the violator shall also be liable for all
reasonable expenses incurred by the Town in enforcing this chapter, including
without limitation attorney fees and costs.
(Ord. 338, 5-14-2024)
TITLE 4
POLICE REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
ANIMAL CONTROL
SECTION:
4-1-1: Certain Animals Prohibited Within Town
4-1-2: Hogs Prohibited
4-1-3: Roosters Prohibited
4-1-4: Penalty
4-1-1: CERTAIN ANIMALS PROHIBITED WITHIN TOWN:
   A.   Livestock and Fowl: It shall be unlawful for any citizen, property
owner, or any person or persons residing or situated in the Town, at any time,
to board, harbor or keep any species of livestock or fowl within the corporate
limits of the Town, subject to the provisions of this Section.
   B.   Definitions:
   FOWL: Including, but not limited to: chickens, geese, ducks, turkeys,
pheasant, quail and the offspring thereof.
   LIVESTOCK: Including, but limited to: horses, mules, donkeys, burros,
cattle, sheep, goats and the offspring thereof.
   C.   Exceptions: Livestock as defined herein, will be allowed on parcels of
land one acre or more in size. Rabbits and/or fowl, other than roosters, may be
kept on parcels of any size; provided, that the keeping of said livestock,
rabbits and/or fowl does not create any of the following:
      1.   An unsightly, distasteful, or aesthetically unpleasing setting as
defined by the normal sensibilities of the residents of the Town.
      2.   An unhealthy, odorous, insect or vermin producing setting, so as to
threaten the health, welfare and enjoyment of property by other residents of
the Town.
      3.   The numbers of livestock, rabbits and/or fowl located on the parcels
shall not exceed, in number, limits set by the Town deemed to be reasonable for
the size of the parcel in question. Said limits shall be determined after
considering all relevant factors, on a case-by-case basis.
      4.   A provision is provided to allow citizens to file a complaint with
the Board of Trustees, if any particular animal or fowl is a nuisance through
noise.
   D.   Removal of Livestock: Those citizens, property owners, and other
persons residing or situated within the Town limits not meeting the exception
requirements set forth in subsection C above, and possessing livestock, shall
upon the effective date of the adopting ordinance of this Code be required to
remove said livestock from their premises.
   E.   Exotic or Wild Animals: It shall be unlawful for any person to own,
keep, maintain, possess, harbor, sell or in any manner deal or traffic within
the Town, any living exotic, wild, dangerous or unusual animals, whether
domesticated or tamed, including, but not necessarily limited to, the
following: bats of any species, felines, other than ordinary domesticated house
cats; gorillas, chimpanzees, orangutans, baboons, or any other infra-human
primates; any member of the Mustelidae family, including but not limited to,
fishers, ferrets, martens, minks, otters, porcupines, raccoons, skunks, weasels
and wolverines; poisonous reptiles; wolves, foxes, coyotes or other species of
canines other than dogs; any animal or bird which has received State or Federal
government designation as an endangered species; any other terrestrial predator
or other animal determined to be a public nuisance pursuant to the provisions,
procedures and means of abatement therefor established by the ordinances of the
Town; provided, however, owners of any of the above defined may apply to the
Town for an annual permit to possess and harbor such animal subject to review
by the Board of Trustees, licensing procedure as herein provided for dogs and
compliance with the provisions of this Chapter and all other ordinances of the
Town.
   F.   Permit Application and Fees: An application and an application fee is
required for all exotic or wild animals, as defined in subsection E above. The
fee is five dollars ($5.00). This fee is nonrefundable regardless of approval
or denial of application. The annual permit fee for each exotic or wild animal
is not to be confused with the application fee. The annual permit fee is to be
determined by the Board of Trustees upon an approval of the application of said
exotic or wild animal. The annual permit fee is to be no less than twenty five
dollars ($25.00) and no more than three hundred dollars ($300.00).
   G.   Animals Kept on Premises; Sanitary Requirements: All fecal waste shall
be removed as necessary from premises and placed in closed fly-tight
containers. The contents of said containers shall be removed from the Town as
necessary to prevent such contents from becoming a nuisance. Owners must remove
said waste within ten (10) days of its creation at the latest.
   H.   Animals at Large: It shall be unlawful for any party or parties owning
or handling cattle, horses, mules, sheep, goats, swine (or other livestock),
chickens, turkeys, ducks, geese, pheasant, and quail (or other fowl) to allow
the same to run at large within the corporate limits of the Town.
Any person or persons violating this section shall be deemed to be guilty of a
misdemeanor and subject to a fine as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. Further, said person or persons may be assessed the costs
of transporting, keeping, or impounding said livestock and/or fowl, and the
expenses incurred by the town in obtaining appropriate orders and/or
injunctions, as needed. (1990 Code)
4-1-2: HOGS PROHIBITED:
Hereafter, it shall be unlawful for any person or persons to harbor hogs within
the corporate limits of the town. (1990 Code)
4-1-3: ROOSTERS PROHIBITED:
Hereafter, it shall be unlawful for any person or persons to harbor the male
gender of the chicken family within the corporate limits of the town. (1990
Code)
4-1-4: PENALTY:
Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall be subject to
a fine as provided for in section
1-4-1 of this code. (1990 Code)
ARTICLE A. DOGS
SECTION:
4-1A-1: Definitions
4-1A-2: Regulation Of Dogs Within The Town Limits
4-1A-3: Ownership Of Dangerous Dogs Prohibited
4-1A-4: Ownership Of Aggressive Dogs Prohibited
4-1A-5: Vaccinations And Licensing Of Dogs Required
4-1A-6: Persons Authorized To Inoculate And Issue Licenses
4-1A-7: Information On Licenses And Tags
4-1A-8: Tag To Be Attached To Dog And License Retained By Owner
4-1A-9: Registration
4-1A-10: Quarantine Of Dogs
4-1A-11: Imported Dogs
4-1A-12: Unlawful Possession Of Licenses
4-1A-13: Impoundment Generally
4-1A-14: Establishment And Operation Of Pound
4-1A-15: Proceedings In Municipal Court Against Owner Or Keeper Of Impounded
Dog
4-1A-16: Notice To Owner Or Keeper Of Dog
4-1A-17: Procedure For Release Of Impounded Dog And/Or Destruction Of Dog
4-1A-18: Disposal Of Dog Whose Owner Or Keeper Cannot Be Located
4-1A-19: Redemption Fee
4-1A-20: Interference With The Simla Police Department Or Dog Enforcement
Officer In Performing Duties
4-1A-21: Muzzling And Confinement
4-1A-22: Female Dogs In Heat
4-1A-23: Notice Or Knowledge Of Violation Not Necessarily For Prosecution Of
Owner Or Keeper
4-1A-24: Unlawful To Poison Dog
4-1A-25: Penalty For Violation
4-1A-26: Enforcement
4-1A-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this chapter, certain terms and words are defined as
follows:
                                        Any dog that barks, growls, charges at,
                                        jumps upon, or has demonstrated
                                        tendencies, without provocation, in a
                                        menacing manner, that would lead a
                                        reasonable person to believe that the
                                        dog may inflict bodily injury upon or
                                        cause the death of any person or
AGGRESSIVE DOG:                         domestic animal, or has engaged in or
                                        been trained for fighting as described
                                        and prohibited in Colorado Revised
                                        Statute 18-9-204. For purposes of this
                                        definition, "domestic animal" shall
                                        mean any other dog, cat, or livestock
                                        that may be permitted to be within the
                                        Town boundaries.
                                        Any dog that has inflicted bodily
                                        injury or serious bodily injury upon
DANGEROUS DOG:                          another dog or has inflicted bodily
                                        injury or serious bodily injury upon or
                                        has caused the death of a person or
                                        domestic animal.
DOG:                                    Any animal of canine species regardless
                                        of sex.
                                        Any dog of the female gender on which
DOG, FEMALE:                            no alternative surgery of the genital
                                        organs has been performed.
DOG, MALE:                              Any dog of the masculine gender, not
                                        castrated.
DOG, NEUTERED:                          Any male dog which has been castrated.
                                        Any dog of the female gender on which
                                        ovariectomy or ovarhisterectomy has
DOG, SPAYED FEMALE:                     been performed by a licensed
                                        veterinarian and accompanied by a
                                        certificate asserting said operation
                                        has been performed.
                                        Any unlicensed or licensed dog found
DOG, STRAY:                             unattached or loose anywhere within the
                                        town limits.
                                        Any bruising of the skin or break in
DOG BITE:                               the skin caused by any contact with the
                                        tooth or mouth of a dog.
                                        Means the act of keeping or caring for
                                        a dog, providing premises to which a
                                        dog returns for food, shelter, or care;
                                        allowing a dog to remain on the
DOG HARBORING:                          person's property for a period of ten
                                        (10) days, or the act of providing
                                        refuge to a dog in order to evade the
                                        impoundment of the dog by lawful
                                        authority.
                                        Every person in possession of or
                                        harboring any dog or who shall suffer
                                        any such dog to remain about their
                                        premises for the period of ten (10)
                                        days. Every "person" shall mean any
                                        person over eighteen (18) years of age,
                                        emancipated minor under the age of
                                        eighteen (18) without direct adult
DOG OWNERS:                             supervision, parent, guardian, or
                                        custodian of any child under the age of
                                        eighteen (18), or any legal entity as
                                        defined by the State of Colorado,
                                        owing, possessing, harboring, keeping,
                                        allowing to remain on the premises, or
                                        having a financial, or property
                                        interest in, or having control or
                                        custody of a dog, aggressive dog, or
                                        dangerous dog, as defined herein.
                                        A communicable disease of both wild and
                                        domestic animals transmittable to
                                        humans, as defined by the "Public
                                        Health Department." "Specific
RABIES:                                 infectious disease of certain animals,
                                        especially dogs, and wolves, contracted
                                        by man by direct inoculation as by bite
                                        of infected animal and due to a
                                        filtrable virus" as defined in
                                        Dorland's Medical Dictionary.
                                        Means bodily injury which, either at
                                        the time of the actual injury or at a
                                        later time, involves a substantial risk
                                        of death, a substantial risk of serious
                                        permanent disfigurement, a substantial
SERIOUS BODILY INJURY:                  risk of protracted loss or impairment
                                        of the function of any part or organ of
                                        the body, or breaks, fractures, or
                                        second or third degree burns requiring
                                        professional medical treatment or any
                                        physical injury that requires
                                        corrective or cosmetic surgery.
VACCINATIONS OR VACCINATION FOR RABIES: Inoculation of a dog with standard
                                        rabies vaccine.
 
(Ord. 333, 1-10-2023)
4-1A-2: REGULATION OF DOGS WITHIN THE TOWN LIMITS:
   The Board of Trustees hereby finds, determines, and declares: That the
following actions of dogs are detrimental to the public health, safety, and
welfare of the inhabitants of the Town of Simla and the Board hereby declares
that it shall be unlawful for any dog owner to allow their dog, as hereinabove
defined to:
   A.   Run at large in the Town of Simla unless said dog is under reasonable
control of the owner. For the purpose of this chapter, a dog shall be deemed
under such reasonable control when said dog is accompanied by its owner, or
some member of the owner's family or with some employee or agent of the owner,
with the dog attached to a leash. For the purpose of this chapter, a dog shall
be deemed not under reasonable control when: (1) said dog inflicts damage or
injury (by biting, jumping upon, pollution of vegetation, or by any other means
whatsoever) to the person or property of anyone other than the owner, except in
the defense of the owner, their family or property; or (2) in the case of any
unsprayed female dog not securely confined in the owner's yard, pen or other
enclosure.
   B.   Menace or attack persons or vehicles.
   C.   Attack other animals.
   D.   Go upon school premises without the permission of the person in charge
thereof.
   E.   Bark, whine, howl or make other noise in a manner which, under non-
mitigating circumstances could be considered by reasonable person/s of ordinary
sensibilities, as excessive, or continuous.
   F.   Attack other animals and cause them to congregate or remain on or about
any premises because of being a female in heat and because of the nature of its
confinement or lack of the same.
   G.   Damage public property or private property not owned by the dog owner.
   H.   Be abandoned.
   I.   Be tied or otherwise physically fastened to any object on public
property when the owner has departed from the immediate vicinity of the
location where the animal has been physically fastened; or be tied or otherwise
physically fastened on private property so as to create an immediate danger to
the physical well-being of the animal or any person.
   J.   Defecate upon public property or private property not owned by the
owner, and such excreta is not immediately removed by the owner at that time.
   K.   Be inside a building open to the public where food or beverages are
prepared, stored, or sold; however, this paragraph does not apply to certified
service dogs.
   L.   Be found unleashed in a public park, provided, however, this subsection
does not apply to certified service dogs, government owned animals or animals
participating in shows or exhibits authorized by the Board of Trustees.
(Ord. 333, 1-10-2023)
4-1A-3: OWNERSHIP OF DANGEROUS DOGS PROHIBITED:
   A dog owner, as defined herein, commits ownership of a dangerous dog if such
person or entity owns, possesses, harbors, keeps, has a financial or property
interest in or has custody or control over a dangerous dog.
   A.   The Town Chief of Police or Marshall or Deputy in order to protect the
public from a dangerous dog, shall have the authority to take and impound a
suspected dangerous dog pending a hearing in Municipal Court at the next
available Court Day.
   B.   Upon conviction of owning a dangerous dog, and upon consideration of
all relevant factors, including the known past history of the dangerous dog,
the Municipal Court Judge, in addition to considering all other penalties
available under this chapter shall have the following additional options:
      1   To order the convicted owner to make restitution to any person who
suffers injury whether such injury is to the person, property, or domestic
animal of the injured person. Restitution shall be equal to the greater of the
fair market value or the replacement cost of the domestic animal on the date
the animal was injured or destroyed plus all reasonable and necessary medical
expenses incurred in the treating of the person or the animal and any actual
costs incurred in replacing the injured or destroyed animal or other personal
property.
      2.   To order the owner of a dangerous dog who has been convicted of a
violation of this section to confine such dangerous dog in a building or
enclosure designed to be escape proof and, whenever such dog is outside of such
building or enclosure, keep the dog under such owner's control by use of a
leash or a muzzle as the Court may direct.
      3.   To order in the event of bodily or serious bodily injury or death to
a person or domestic animal, or in the event of a second or subsequent
violation of this section, the dangerous dog to be immediately confiscated and
placed in a public animal shelter and, upon exhaustion of any right an owner
has to appeal a conviction based on a violation of this section, to require the
dangerous dog to be destroyed by lethal injection administered by a licensed
veterinarian. The owner, in such event, shall be responsible for the costs
incurred by the Town in the confiscation, impoundment, and veterinary treatment
of the dangerous dog, as well as any other costs associated with the
enforcement of this Code and the Court's orders.
      4.   The owner shall successfully complete a court approved animal
obedience training, behavior modification, pet management class, and/or any
other treatment program that the Court may deem to be appropriate. The owner
shall bear the entire cost of all programs, classes, or training.
      5.   To order removal of the dangerous dog from the Town of Simla.
      6.   To order, within ten (10) days of the conviction, to obtain and
present to the Simla Chief of Police written proof that the owner has procured
a homeowner's or renter's liability insurance policy, or a rider to an existing
policy, in the minimum amount of one hundred thousand dollars ($100,000.00) to
specifically cover any future damage or injury that may be caused by the
subject's dangerous dog during the period of court ordered supervision, such
supervision to be no less than one (1) year from the date of conviction. During
the period of supervision, the owner shall provide written proof on a quarterly
basis of the necessary coverage.
   C.   It shall be an affirmative defense to the charge of owning a dangerous
dog if the dangerous dog, while confined to the dangerous dog owner's property,
injures a domestic animal which was at large as defined in
4-1A-1, or injures a person who is on the dangerous dog owner's property for
the purpose of attempting or committing a criminal offense, other that a petty
offense, against the dangerous dog's owner or the dangerous dog owner's
property, or if the injured person while on the dangerous dog owner's property
tormented, provoked, abused, or inflicted injury upon the dog in such an
extreme manner as to result in the dog attack.
(Ord. 333, 1-10-2023)
4-1A-4: OWNERSHIP OF AGGRESSIVE DOGS PROHIBITED:
   Ownership of an aggressive dog as defined herein, is prohibited except under
the conditions set forth in A. below.
   A.   The Town Chief of Police, or his deputy, in order to protect the public
from an aggressive dog, shall have the authority to take and impound a
suspected aggressive dog pending a hearing in Municipal Court at the next
regular Court Day.
   B.   A dog owner or one who harbors a dog, as defined herein, is guilty of
ownership of an aggressive dog if he or she owns or harbors a dog which engages
in any of the following conduct within the Town of Simla:
      1.   The dog approaches any person or persons, without provocation, in a
menacing and threatening manner, whether or not an attack by the dog upon the
person or persons actually occurred.
      2.   The dog, in an attacking, menacing, or threatening manner encroaches
over, through, or under a fence onto public property or the private property of
another.
      3.   The dog inflicts a dog bite, or a puncture wound, abrasion, or other
wound caused by the aggressive dog's teeth upon a person or a domestic animal
in which the injury does not meet the definition of bodily injury or serious
bodily injury.
   C.   Upon conviction of owning an aggressive dog, and upon consideration of
all relevant factors, including the known past history of the aggressive dog,
the Municipal Court Judge, in addition to considering all other penalties
available under this chapter shall have the following additional options:
      1.   To order, that when the dog is leashed, the owner may not use an
extension style leash or leash the dog to any permanent inanimate object.
Rather the dog shall be in a secure fenced area or be on a short leash under
the constant supervision and surveillance of the owner.
      2.   The owner shall successfully complete a court approved animal
obedience training, behavior modification, pet management class, and/or any
other treatment program that the Court may deem to be appropriate. The owner
shall bear the entire cost of all programs, classes, or training.
      3.   The owner shall, at the owner's expense, have the animal spayed or
neutered and shall provide written proof from a licensed veterinarian to the
Simla Chief of Police that the sterilization has been performed.
      4.   To order, within ten (10) days of the conviction, to obtain and
present to the Simla Chief of Police that the owner has procured a homeowner's
or renter's liability insurance policy, or a rider to an existing policy, in
the minimum amount of one hundred thousand dollars ($100,000.00) to
specifically cover any future damage or injury that may be caused by the
subject's dangerous dog during the period of court ordered supervision, such
supervision to be no less than one (1) year from the date of conviction. During
the period of supervision, the owner shall provide written proof on a quarterly
basis of the necessary coverage.
      5.   To order removal of the aggressive dog from the Town of Simla.
   D.   It shall be an affirmative defense to the charge of ownership of an
aggressive dog, if the aggressive dog, while confined to the aggressive dog
owner's property, is aggressive to a person or domestic animal that is on the
aggressive dog owner's property for the purpose of attempting or committing a
criminal offense against the aggressive dog owner or the aggressive dog owner's
property, or if the aggressive dog, while on the aggressive dog owner's
property is tormented, provoked, abused, or inflicted injury upon, in such a
manner as to result in the dog being made aggressive.
(Ord. 333, 1-10-2023)
4-1A-5: VACCINATIONS AND LICENSING OF DOGS REQUIRED:
   It shall be the duty of every person who owns or harbors any dog or dogs in
the Town of Simla, Colorado, to have such dog or dogs inoculated by a regularly
licensed veterinarian of the State of Colorado and to obtain a certificate from
said veterinarian, setting out the fact of such vaccination and also to obtain
from the Town Clerk of the Town of Simla, Colorado, a license for each dog. The
owner, possessor, or keeper of any dog within the Town of Simla shall secure a
license for such dog from the Town Clerk on or before March 31 of each year or
within thirty (30) days after acquisition or within thirty (30) days after the
dog reaches the age of four (4) months. Dogs purchased, obtained, or otherwise
acquired subsequent to the 31st day of March in any calendar year shall be
licensed within thirty (30) days after such acquisition, or within thirty (30)
days after the dog reaches the age of four (4) months. New residents of the
Town shall have thirty (30) days after becoming residents to secure a license
hereunder. The license, which may be in the form of a receipt, shall state the
name of the owner, the date of issuance and date of inoculation, and a
description of the dog.
(Ord. 333, 1-10-2023)
4-1A-6: PERSONS AUTHORIZED TO INOCULATE AND ISSUE LICENSES:
   Inoculation of dogs under this chapter may be performed by any licensed
veterinarian of the State of Colorado and licenses for dogs shall be issued by
the Town Clerk of the Town of Simla, Colorado. The owner or harborer of every
dog so inoculated shall pay the veterinarian inoculating same their inoculating
fee and shall pay a license fee to the Town of Simla as follows:
   A.   Each neutered male or each spayed female: $15.00.
   B.   Each unneutered male or each unsprayed female: $25.00.
   C.   Any license obtained outside the time limitations herein set forth
shall bear a penalty of forty-five dollars ($45.00), which penalty shall be in
addition to the license fee and paid to the Town Clerk at the time of license
purchase.
(Ord. 333, 1-10-2023)
4-1A-7: INFORMATION ON LICENSES AND TAGS:
   The Town Clerk shall issue a license to the owner or harborer of each dog,
the receipt for which shall contain the following information: (a) The name and
address of the owner, or harborer of any inoculated and licensed dog; (b) The
date of inoculation and date of license; (c) The year and series number of the
dog tag; (d) The breed, age, coIor and sex of the inoculated dog. The tags
shall be made of durable material suitable to be attached to the collar or
harness of the inoculated dog. Such tag shall state the year for which it is
issued and the series number of the license and tag. Such tag shall also be
prepared and distributed by the Town Clerk or Clerk's Assistant.
(Ord. 333, 1-10-2023)
4-1A-8: TAG TO BE ATTACHED TO DOG AND LICENSE RETAINED BY OWNER:
   Every owner or harborer of a dog shall attach the tag evidencing the
licensing and inoculation with anti-rabies vaccine to the collar or harness of
the inoculated and licensed dog and such collar or harness shall be worn by
said dog at all times. The license shall be retained by the owner or the
harborer of the inoculated and licensed dog for inspection by any member of the
Simla Police Department.
(Ord. 333, 1-10-2023)
4-1A-9: REGISTRATION:
   The inoculation and licensing shall be valid until the subsequent March 31.
(Ord. 333, 1-10-2023)
4-1A-10: QUARANTINE OF DOGS:
   A dog which is known to have bitten or injured any person so as to cause an
abrasion of the skin or a dog which in the opinion of a member of the Simla
Police Department or of any licensed veterinarian of the State of Colorado,
appears to be afflicted with rabies, shall be closely confined by its owner in
accordance with the directions of a member of the Police Department for a
period of not less than fourteen (14) days.
   A.   If the owner of such dog or dogs referred to in this section cannot be
determined or located, then a member of the Simla Police Department shall
otherwise confine said dog or dogs for a period of not less than fourteen (14)
days. If the owner of said dog is not determined, located or the dog claimed
from confinement within said fourteen (14) days, then the Simla Police Chief
may order said dog destroyed. Provided, however, that all costs be paid for by
the owner or owners of said dog. If, however, after fourteen (14) days
confinement, the said dog is not claimed, or the owner determined or located
then the cost of confinement shall be borne by the Town of Simla. If said dog
is determined, by a veterinarian, to be suffering from rabies it shall be
destroyed forthwith.
   B.   It shall be unlawful for any person knowing or suspecting a dog has
rabies to allow such dog to be taken off his premises or beyond the limits of
the Town without written permission of the Simla Police Chief. Every owner or
other person upon ascertaining a dog is rabid shall immediately notify the
Simla Police Chief who shall either remove the dog to the pound or summarily
destroy it.
(Ord. 333, 1-10-2023)
4-1A-11: IMPORTED DOGS:
   All dogs which are brought into the Town of Simla shall be in compliance
with the laws and rules and regulations of the State of Colorado regarding the
handling of the animals and shall have been vaccinated not less than thirty
(30) days, nor more than twelve (12) months prior to importation. The metal tag
denoting vaccination shall be firmly affixed to the collar or harness of the
dog and shall be evidence of compliance with this section.
   A.   If said imported dog remains in the Town of Simla more than thirty (30)
days, said dog shall be licensed in accordance with the provisions of this
chapter. A certificate of vaccination issued by a licensed veterinarian to the
owner or harborer of a dog within the current year by any municipality, county,
or state, shall be exchanged for a current inoculation and license tag of the
Town of Simla and a transfer fee of ten dollars ($10.00) imposed thereon for a
male or spayed female and thirteen dollars ($13.00) for an unsprayed female.
(Ord. 333, 1-10-2023)
4-1A-12: UNLAWFUL POSSESSION OF LICENSES:
   Only those persons who own or harbor a dog duly vaccinated and licensed in
accordance with the provisions of this chapter shall be permitted to possess
the licenses and tag provided for herein. No person may affix a tag evidencing
vaccination and licensing, to the collar or harness of any dog, except the tag
issued for that dog at the time of licensing.
(Ord. 333, 1-10-2023)
4-1A-13: IMPOUNDMENT GENERALLY:
   It shall be the duty of every member of the Simla Police Department or other
dog enforcement office to impound any dog which is not wearing a dog tag as
herein provided and any dog which they reasonable feel to be in violation of
any of the provisions of this chapter, whether such dog is wearing a dog tag or
not. It shall be lawful for any member of the Simla Police Department or other
dog enforcement officer to go upon private property for the purpose of catching
any dog to be impounded.
(Ord. 333, 1-10-2023)
4-1A-14: ESTABLISHMENT AND OPERATION OF POUND:
   The Town shall have the right to establish a dog pound for the Town, to be
operated by Town personnel, or at their election, they may, subject to approval
of the Board of Trustees, contract with a public or private person or
organization for the operation of a dog pound for and on behalf of the Town.
4-1A-15: PROCEEDINGS IN MUNICIPAL COURT AGAINST OWNER OR KEEPER OF IMPOUNDED
DOG:
   If a dog is impounded, it shall be the duty of a member of the Simla Police
Department or other dog enforcement officer immediately to institute
proceedings in the Municipal Court on behalf of the Town against the owner,
possessor or keeper of such dog, if known, charging the owner, possessor or
keeper with a violation of the appropriate section of this chapter. Nothing
contained herein shall be construed as preventing the member of the Simla
Police Department or other dog enforcement officer from instituting a
proceeding in the Municipal Court for violation of this chapter where there is
no impoundment.
(Ord. 333, 1-10-2023)
4-1A-16: NOTICE TO OWNER OR KEEPER OF DOG:
   Not later than two (2) days after impoundment, the Simla Police Chief, or
his deputy, shall cause to be posted in a conspicuous place at the Town Hall
and at one other public place for three (3) consecutive days a notice of
impoundment. The notice posted shall describe the dog, set for the date of
impoundment, and set forth the location from which the dog was taken up. In the
case of impoundment of a dog wearing the tag described in
4-1A-7 hereof, the Chief shall also use other reasonable means in a diligent
effort to notify the owner, possessor, or keeper of said dog.
(Ord. 333, 1-10-2023)
4-1A-17: PROCEDURE FOR RELEASE OF IMPOUNDED DOG AND/OR DESTRUCTION OF DOG:
   If a complaint has been filed in the Municipal Court of the Town against the
owner, possessor, or keeper of any impounded dog for a violation of this
chapter, then such dog shall not be released from impoundment except when
requirements of this chapter are met. In addition to any penalties which may be
provided for in this chapter for violation hereof, the Chief shall require such
owner, possessor, or keeper to pay the fees herein provided in
4-1A-19 hereof.
(Ord. 333, 1-10-2023)
4-1A-18: DISPOSAL OF DOG WHOSE OWNER OR KEEPER CANNOT BE LOCATED:
   If a complaint has not been filed in Municipal Court because the owner,
possessor or keeper of an impounded dog is not known or cannot be located and
such dog has not been claimed within five (5) days for an untagged dog and ten
(10) days for a tagged dog from the date of impoundment, not counting the first
day of impoundment, the dog may be disposed of in any humane manner prescribed
by the Chief; provided, however, that in the case of a dog wearing a tag as
described in
4-1A-7 hereof when impounded, it may be disposed of only after ten (10) days of
impoundment, not counting the first day of impoundment, and upon the Chiefs
certification of the diligent effort to notify the owner, possessor or keeper
of the dog of its impoundment, and that same has been unsuccessful.
(Ord. 333, 1-10-2023)
4-1A-19: REDEMPTION FEE:
   Any owner, possessor, or keeper of a dog desiring to redeem such dog from
the pound shall pay the Town the sum of twenty dollars ($20.00) as an
impoundment fee together with the sum of twenty dollars ($20.00) for each day
of impoundment for cost of care, in addition to applicable licensing fees. The
owner, possessor or keeper will also provide proof of current vaccinations as
provided for in the chapter. Should the Town of Simla contract with an entity
for the keeping or impoundment of dogs, the daily impoundment fee shall reflect
the Town's cost of impounding the animal.
(Ord. 333, 1-10-2023)
4-1A-20: INTERFERENCE WITH THE SIMLA POLICE DEPARTMENT OR DOG ENFORCEMENT
OFFICER IN PERFORMING DUTIES:
   It shall be unlawful for any person to interfere with, molest, hinder, or
obstruct the Simla Police Department or other dog enforcement officer in the
discharge of their official duties under this chapter.
(Ord. 333, 1-10-2023)
4-1A-21: MUZZLING AND CONFINEMENT:
   Whenever it becomes necessary to safeguard the public from the dangers of
rabies or hydrophobia, the Mayor, if he or she deems it necessary, shall issue
a proclamation ordering every person owning or keeping a dog to confine it
securely on their premises unless such dog shall have a muzzle of sufficient
strength to prevent it from biting any person. Any unmuzzled dog running at
large during the time of the proclamation shall be seized and impounded, unless
noticeably infected with rabies in which case it shall be destroyed by the
Chief without notice to the owner. Dogs impounded during the first two (2) days
of such proclamation shall, if claimed within five (5) days be released to the
owner unless said dog/s are infected with rabies, upon payment of impounding
charges provided for in
4-1A-19. If unclaimed after that period, such dog may be summarily destroyed.
Any dogs required to be confined under the provisions of the chapter shall be
kept upon the premises of the owner of such place as to be least dangerous to
persons lawfully upon said premises.
(Ord. 333, 1-10-2023)
4-1A-22: FEMALE DOGS IN HEAT:
   Any unspayed female dog, while in heat, shall be securely confined during
such period in the owner's yard, pen, or other enclosure, which shall be so
constructed or situated as to prevent other dogs from gaining access thereto.
(Ord. 333, 1-10-2023)
4-1A-23: NOTICE OR KNOWLEDGE OF VIOLATION NOT NECESSARILY FOR PROSECUTION OF
OWNER OR KEEPER:
   For the purpose of prosecution for violation of this chapter, it shall not
be necessary in order to obtain a conviction to prove notice or knowledge of
the part of the owner, possessor or keeper of the dog in question that such dog
was violating any of the provisions of this chapter at the time and place
charged, it being the purpose and intent of the chapter to impose strict
liability upon the owner, possessor, or keeper of any dog for the action,
conduct, and condition of such dog.
(Ord. 333, 1-10-2023)
4-1A-24: UNLAWFUL TO POISON DOG:
   It shall be unlawful for any person to poison any dog or to distribute
poison in any manner whatsoever with the intent or for the purpose of poisoning
any dog within the Town of Simla.
(Ord. 333, 1-10-2023)
4-1A-25: PENALTY FOR VIOLATION:
   Any person violating any provision of this chapter may upon conviction, be
punished by a fine of not more than one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) for each
offense or by other alternative penalty or a combination of fine and
alternative penalty felt to be reasonable by the Municipal Judge. Alternative
penalty such as but not limited to having violators and their dogs complete
obedience training, having their dogs muzzled as well as on a leash when off
their premises and out of a fenced yard/area, having to provide proof of
increased liability insurance for having an aggressive or dangerous dog, or
having to remove the dog from the Town of Simla.
(Ord. 333, 1-10-2023)
4-1A-26: ENFORCEMENT:
   The provisions of this chapter shall be enforced by the Chief of Police, and
his deputies, of the Town of Simla, or by a representative so appointed by the
Chief or the Town Board.
(Ord. 333, 1-10-2023)
ARTICLE B. CATS
SECTION:
4-1B-1: Definitions
4-1B-2: Restrictions
4-1B-1: DEFINITIONS:
CAT: Any member of the animal species Felis catus.
OWNER: Any person owning, keeping, harboring, possessing, or having custody or
control of one or more cats. Harboring a cat includes providing for or shelter
for the cat for two (2) consecutive days or more. (Res. 21-1991, 5-7-1991)
4-1B-2: RESTRICTIONS:
It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to keep more than four (4) cats
within the Municipality, with the exception that a litter of cats, or a portion
of any such litter, may be kept for a period of time not exceeding three (3)
months from birth. (Res. 21-1991, 5-7-1991)
CHAPTER 2
MISCELLANEOUS OFFENSES
SECTION:
4-2-1: Weapons (Rep. by Ord. 310, 2-13-2018)
4-2-2: Open Liquor Containers
4-2-3: Local Liquor Licensing Authority
4-2-4: Gambling
4-2-5: Curfew, Minors (Under 18 Years Of Age)
4-2-6: Public Parks, Wastewater Treatment Plant And Cemetery; Restriction On
Use
4-2-7: Disorderly Conduct
4-2-8: Trespass
4-2-9: Loitering On School Grounds Or In A School Building
4-2-10: Possession And Use Of Tobacco Products, E-Cigarettes, And Similar
Vaping Devices By Minors
4-2-11: Shoplifting And Theft Prohibited
4-2-12: Marijuana Facilities And Retail Stores
4-2-1: WEAPONS:
(Rep. by Ord. 310, 2-13-2018)
4-2-2: OPEN LIQUOR CONTAINERS:
It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to carry or have any open
containers of any malt, vinous or spirituous liquors or fermented malt
beverages in any vehicle in the Town, or on the grounds of any public school in
said Town, or on any public street, sidewalk, alley or other public way or
public place, including all Town of Simla parks and ball fields, except for
licensed premises within the Town. All law enforcement officers are authorized
and empowered to arrest or cause to be arrested, with or without process, any
persons found violating the provisions of this section. (Ord. 268, 7-8-2008)
For the purpose of this section, the Governing Body of the Town shall be
considered as the local licensing authority.
Any person found guilty of violating this section shall be punished for each
violation by a fine as provided in section
1-4-1 of this Code. (1990 Code)
4-2-3: LOCAL LIQUOR LICENSING AUTHORITY:
The "local licensing authority" as defined in Colorado Revised Statutes 12-46-
103(4) and 12-47-103(17), as amended, shall be the board of trustees. The town
clerk and recorder shall serve as the executive secretary to the local
licensing authority, hereinafter referred to as the "LLA" and shall be
responsible for coordinating and receiving all payment of fees, application
forms, and other documentation associated with the licensing process. The LLA
shall exercise all discretion and responsibilities as set forth in the Colorado
Revised Statutes article 47, title 12, also known as the Colorado liquor code
and shall cooperate as necessary with the state licensing authority,
hereinafter referred to as "SLA". Any differences or inconsistencies between
the state statute as described herein and this code shall be settled in favor
of the state statute, it being the intent of the LLA to follow the procedures
and laws as set forth in the Colorado liquor code. A copy of the Colorado
liquor code shall be kept on file with the town clerk and recorder for review
and consideration by all town residents.
   A.   Licensing Process: A person or entity, referred to as the applicant,
desiring to sell alcoholic liquors must first file the appropriate application
with and obtain approval of the application from the LLA. The application
process shall be that process set forth in Colorado Revised Statutes 12-47-301
et seq., as amended. Applicants shall be required to familiarize themselves
with the state statute and must comply strictly with the requirements of the
Colorado liquor code. The town clerk may provide such assistance, information,
and forms as the clerk may be provided by the SLA, but the clerk is not
required or allowed to render legal advice to an applicant.
   B.   Local Option: The licensing process shall be that process mandated by
the Colorado liquor code unless the town elects to restrict entirely the sale
of liquor within the town boundaries by following the petition/election process
outlined in Colorado Revised Statutes 12-47-105, "local option", as amended.
   C.   Exemption From Licensing Process: Those persons and entities which are
deemed to be exempt from the licensing requirements, as set forth in Colorado
Revised Statutes 12-47-106, as amended, shall not be required to apply for a
liquor license. Such exemptions include the sale or distribution of sacramental
wines used for religious purposes.
   D.   License Requirements And Restrictions, License Transfer, Temporary
Permits, And License Renewal:
      1.   The town has authority to consider and issue only those types of
liquor licenses listed in Colorado Revised Statutes 12-47-309, as amended.
Further, those persons or entities defined in Colorado Revised Statutes 12-47-
306, as amended, prohibited from holding a liquor license, shall not be issued
or allowed to maintain a liquor license within the boundaries of the town.
Additionally, such persons or entities shall be prohibited from providing
financial assistance to a holder of a liquor license as set forth in Colorado
Revised Statutes 12-47-308, as amended.
      2.   The procedures and time requirements involved with the application
for a new liquor license shall be those requirements, procedures, and time
requirements as set forth in Colorado Revised Statutes 12-47-301, 12-47-311,
12-47-312, and 12-47-313, as amended.
      3.   The transfer of the ownership of a properly issued liquor license
and the issuance of temporary permits shall be governed by the procedures and
requirements as set forth in Colorado Revised Statutes 12-47-303.
      4.   Applications for the renewal of a liquor license must be made to the
LLA at least forty five (45) days prior to the date of expiration of the
license and shall be filed in accordance with Colorado Revised Statutes 12-47-
302, as amended. The LLA may refuse to grant a renewal of the license for "good
cause" and pursuant to the procedures and criteria set forth in Colorado
Revised Statutes 12-47-302, as amended. (Ord. 205, 9-3-1997)
   E.   License And Application Fees: All application and license fees are set
in accordance with Colorado Revised Statutes title 12, as amended. Any
application for a license to sell fermented malt beverages or alcoholic
liquors, any application for the transfer of the location or of the ownership
of a license, and any application for the renewal of an existing license shall
be accompanied by a nonreimbursable application fee set by statute. Unless any
portion of a license fee is rebated by affirmative action of the local
licensing authority, the license fees, as set by statute, and apportioned
between the town and the state shall be as set forth in a schedule available at
all times in the office of the town clerk. (Ord. 275, 12-8-2009)
4-2-4: GAMBLING:
   A.   Gambling Prohibited: No person shall play for money or other valuable
things at any game with cards, dice, billiards or with any other article,
instrument or thing whatsoever which may be used for the purpose of playing or
betting upon or winning or losing any money or any other thing of value, nor
shall bet upon any game others may be playing.
   B.   Gambling Houses And Devices: No person shall keep a gaming house, or in
any building or other place by himself or his agent used or occupied, procure
or permit any persons to frequent or come together to play for money or other
valuable thing at any game, nor shall keep nor suffer to be kept any table or
other apparatus for the purpose of playing at any game or sport for money or
any valuable thing, nor shall keep nor rent any such place for any such
purpose. (Ord. 22, 4-19-1919)
   C.   Confiscation And Destruction Of Gambling Paraphernalia: All gambling
devices, gambling records and gambling proceeds are subject to seizure by any
peace officer and may be confiscated and destroyed by order of a court
acquiring jurisdiction. Gambling proceeds shall be transmitted by court order
to the general fund of the state.
   D.   Penalty: Any person violating any of the provisions of this section
shall, upon conviction, be fined as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code for each offense. A person who engages in gambling commits a
class 1 misdemeanor; a person who possesses a premises commits a class 3
misdemeanor; and a repeat offender commits a class 5 felony. (1990 Code)
4-2-5: CURFEW, MINORS (UNDER EIGHTEEN YEARS OF AGE):
The following provisions shall be applicable to the creation and enforcement of
the curfew:
   A.   Definitions: As used in this section, the following words shall have
the necessary stated meanings:
         LOITER OR LOITERING: To be dilatory, to stand idly around, to linger,
delay, or wander about, or to remain, abide, or tarry in a public place.
         PUBLIC PLACE: A place to which the public or a substantial number of
the public has access, including, but not necessarily limited to, any street,
alley, road, highway, sidewalk, automobile parking lot, school, place of
amusement, park, playground, and public building or facility.
   B.   Unlawful Acts:
      1.   It shall be unlawful for any person under the age of eighteen (18)
years, or for any parent, guardian or other person having care or custody of
any person under the age of eighteen (18) years to allow or permit such person,
or for that person to loiter in or upon any public place within the town
subsequent to the hour of eleven o'clock (11:00) P.M., or prior to the hour of
five o'clock (5:00) A.M., except for purposes of lawful employment, or unless
such person under the age of eighteen (18) years is accompanied by the parent
or guardian of said person or unless such person is involved in or attending a
school, religious, community or athletic activity which includes adult
sponsorship and supervision.
      2.   It shall further be considered and deemed to be an unlawful act for
any person under the age of eighteen (18) years, or for any parent, guardian or
other person having care or custody of any person under the age of eighteen
(18) years to allow or permit such person, or for that person to be either the
driver of or the passenger in any vehicle on a public road, street, highway, or
public parking lot, within the time period as proscribed in subsection B1 of
this section if such person is not accompanied by his or her parent or
guardian, or unless such person is either traveling to or from his or her place
of lawful employment, or a school, religious, community, or athletic activity
which includes adult sponsorship and supervision.
      3.   Such person shall be deemed to be in violation of this section, as a
loiterer, either on foot or in a vehicle, if such person, following the
completion of his or her employment, school, religious, community, or athletic
activity, has not taken the most direct route to his home within a reasonable
amount of time following the completion of the event.
   C.   Effective Period: The provisions of this section shall be in effect and
enforceable commencing on November 7, 1995, at eleven o'clock (11:00) P.M., and
shall remain enforceable throughout the year.
   D.   Penalty: Any person who violates any of the provisions of section 4-2-
5 shall be fined for a first offense within a one (1) year period of time, the
sum of forty five dollars ($45.00). Subsequent violations within one (1) year
shall result in the person receiving a summons and complaint to appear in the
Simla Municipal Court and may result in a fine of up to seven hundred dollars
($700.00). (Res. 64-1995, 11-7-1995; amd. Ord. 319, 8-11-2020)
4-2-6: PUBLIC PARKS, WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT AND CEMETERY; RESTRICTION ON
USE:
The following provisions shall be applicable to the creation and enforcement of
the prohibition:
   A.   Public Parks, Cemetery, And Simla Wastewater Treatment Plant: "Public
parks" shall refer to all public parks located within the town of Simla,
including, but not limited to, the Simla town park located at 325 Pueblo
Avenue, the Dean Tracy Memorial Park located at 1001 Antelope Street, the small
town park located at 322 Navajo Avenue, and the Frank King Memorial Field/
Ballfields located at 315 Cheyenne Avenue, all located within the town of
Simla, Elbert County, Colorado. The town of Simla cemetery is located at 1100
Antelope Street, and the Simla wastewater treatment plant is located at 1109
Antelope Street, town of Simla, Elbert County, Colorado. (Ord. 222, 9-19-2000)
   B.   Unlawful Acts; Wastewater Treatment Plant; Adult Persons In Public
Parks: It shall be unlawful for any person not employed or retained by the town
to be upon, inhabit, or use any part of the Simla wastewater treatment plant
without the permission of the town board or its designated employee or agent.
It shall further be unlawful for any adult person to be upon, inhabit, or use
any part or portion of a town public park during the following periods of time:
(Ord. 222, 9-19-2000; amd. Ord. 294, 7-9-2013)
      1.   From the time when daylight saving time ends effective in October of
each year to when daylight saving time starts in April of each year, the town
public parks shall be closed to public use from the hour of nine o'clock (9:00)
P.M., to the hour of five o'clock (5:00) A.M.
      2.   From the time when daylight saving time starts effective in April of
each year to when daylight saving time ends in October of each year, the stated
facilities shall be closed to public use from the hour of eleven o'clock (11:
00) P.M., to the hour of five o'clock (5:00) A.M.
      3.   The above stated time periods shall not apply to residents or others
involved with the parks or facilities as employees of the town or by permission
of the town board or its designated agent or employee. Further the above stated
time periods shall not apply to those persons involved in community, athletic,
or other activity previously sanctioned in writing by the town board.
   C.   Unlawful Acts; Minors: It shall be unlawful for any minor (youth under
the age of 18) not employed or retained by the town to be upon, inhabit, or use
any part or portion of a town public park or the town cemetery, at any time of
the year, from nightfall to five o'clock (5:00) A.M. The restriction set forth
herein shall not apply to those minors involved with the parks or facilities as
employees of the town, or to those minors involved in a school activity, which
event is sponsored and supervised by school or town officials or employees, and
which event has been previously approved by the town board, in writing, or to
those minors accompanied by a parent or guardian during lawful hours.
   D.   Penalty: Any person who violates any of the provisions of this section
4-2- 6 shall be fined for a first offense within a one (1) year period of time,
the sum of forty five dollars ($45.00). Subsequent violations within one (1)
year shall result in the person receiving a summons and complaint to appear in
the Simla Municipal Court and may result in a fine of up to seven hundred
dollars ($700.00). (Ord. 222, 9-19-2000; amd. Ord. 319, 8-11-2020)
4-2-7: DISORDERLY CONDUCT:
It shall be unlawful for any person to disturb the peace and quiet of any
neighborhood or family by committing disorderly conduct. A person commits
disorderly conduct if he intentionally, knowingly, or recklessly:
   A.   Makes a coarse and obviously offensive utterance, gesture, or display
in a public place and the utterance, gesture, or display tends to incite an
immediate breach of the peace; or
   B.   Makes unreasonable noise in a public place or near a private residence
that he has no right to occupy; or
   C.   Fights with another in a public place except in an amateur or
professional contest of athletic skill; or
   D.   Not being a peace officer, discharges a firearm in a public place
except when engaged in lawful target practice or hunting; or
   E.   Not being a peace officer, displays a deadly weapon in a public place
in a manner calculated to alarm; or
   F.   Drives a vehicle, uses roller skates, or rides a bicycle or motorcycle
on sidewalks, across parks or lawns, in such a manner as to be a danger to
public safety or which activity is found to be destructive to private or public
property. (Res. 96-99, 1-5-1999; amd. Ord. 213, 6-11-1999)
4-2-8: TRESPASS:
   A.   Unlawful: It shall be unlawful for any person to:
      1.   Intentionally or knowingly trespass or enter upon the premises or
land of another or in possession of another without the permission of the owner
or the person in possession of the premises or property, or having lawfully
entered upon the premises or property, to remain on the premises or property
after having been directed by the owner or person in possession of the premises
or property to depart; or
      2.   To enter into or upon land or a building that is posted, locked, or
otherwise fenced or enclosed in a manner that a reasonably prudent person would
understand that the owner does not want the person on the land or in the
building; or
      3.   To wilfully refuse or fail to leave any public building upon being
requested to do so by the chief administrative officer, his or her designee, or
the designated town officer charged with maintaining order in such public
building, if the time of occupation is after regular operating hours or if the
person so charged has committed, is committing, threatens to commit, or incites
others to commit any act which did, or would if completed, disrupt, impair,
interfere with, or obstruct the lawful missions, processes, procedures, or
functions being carried on in the public building.
   B.   Definitions:
   PREMISES: Real property, buildings, and other improvements thereon.
   PUBLIC BUILDING: Any public building owned, operated, or controlled by the
town, the state of Colorado, or by the federal government.
   C.   Penalty: Any person who shall violate any of the provisions of this
section shall be fined in a sum of not less than twenty five dollars ($25.00),
nor more than five hundred dollars ($500.00). (Ord. 235, 7-2-2002)
4-2-9: LOITERING ON SCHOOL GROUNDS OR IN A SCHOOL BUILDING:
It shall be unlawful for any person who with intent to interfere with or
disrupt the school program or with intent to interfere with or endanger
schoolchildren, loiters in a school building or on school grounds or within one
hundred feet (100') of school grounds when persons under the age of eighteen
(18) are present in the building or on the grounds, not having any reason or
relationship involving custody of, or responsibility for, a pupil or any other
specific, legitimate reason for being there, and having been asked to leave by
a school administrator or his representative or by a peace officer.
   A.   The word "loiter" shall mean to be dilatory, to stand idly around, to
linger, delay, wander about, to remain, abide or tarry in a public place.
   B.   An officer shall have reasonable grounds for belief that a person is
loitering with intent to interfere with or disrupt the school program or with
intent to interfere with or endanger schoolchildren if he or she observes the
subject person to be engaged in behavior including, but not limited to, one or
more of the following:
      1.   Take flight upon appearance of a peace officer.
      2.   Refuse to provide personal identification to the peace officer.
      3.   Endeavor to conceal the person's person or any object.
      4.   Systematically check the means of access to buildings or vehicles on
the school grounds.
      5.   Maintain a continuous presence in close proximity to a place when
the person's activity manifests a high probability of unlawful activity.
   C.   It shall be an affirmative defense that the defendant's acts were
lawful and he was exercising his rights of lawful assembly as a part of a
peaceful and orderly petition for the redress of grievances, either in the
course of labor disputes or otherwise.
   D.   Any person who shall violate any of the provisions of this section
shall be fined in a sum of not less than twenty five dollars ($25.00), nor more
than five hundred dollars ($500.00). (Ord. 235, 7-2-2002)
4-2-10: POSSESSION AND USE OF TOBACCO PRODUCTS, E-CIGARETTES, AND SIMILAR
VAPING DEVICES BY MINORS:
The following provisions shall be applicable to the prohibition and enforcement
of the ordinance codified herein prohibiting the possession and use of tobacco
products, e-cigarettes, and similar vaping devices by minors.
   A.   Intent: It is the intent of this section to protect the public health,
safety, and welfare of the citizens of the Town of Simla, and particularly
minor children, by prohibiting the possession and use of tobacco products, e-
cigarettes, and similar vaping devices by minors and by prohibiting the
dissemination and furnishing of tobacco products, e-cigarettes, and other
vaping devices and products to minors.
   B   Definitions: As used in this section, the following words or phrases are
defined as follows:
 
MINOR:           Any person under eighteen (18) years of age.
                 Holding or carrying of a lighted pipe, lighted cigar, or
SMOKING:         lighted cigarette of any kind and includes the lighting of a
                 pipe, cigar, or cigarette of any kind.
                 The act of inhaling and exhaling the aerosol, often referred
VAPING:          to as vapor, which produced by an e-cigarette or similar
                 device.
                 Any substance containing tobacco leaf, including, but not
TOBACCO PRODUCT: limited to cigarettes, cigars, pipe tobacco, snuff, chewing
                 tobacco, or dipping tobacco.
 
   C.   Unlawful Possession or Use of Tobacco Products or Vaping Products by
Minors.
      1.   It shall be unlawful for any minor to possess any tobacco product,
e-cigarette, or other vaping device.
      2.   It shall be unlawful for any minor to consume or use, either by
smoking, ingesting, absorbing, chewing, or vaping any tobacco product, e-
cigarette, or other vaping device.
      3.   It shall be unlawful for any minor to purchase, obtain, or attempt
to purchase or obtain any tobacco product, e-cigarette, or other vaping device
by misrepresentation of age or by any other method.
      4.   It shall be rebuttably presumed that the substance within a package
or container is a tobacco product, e-cigarette, or other vaping device if the
package or container has affixed to it a label which identifies the package or
container as containing a tobacco product, e-cigarette, or other vaping device.
      5.   The Simla Municipal Court may, in its discretion, and as part of the
sentence to be imposed against any minor convicted of violating this section,
require the offender to complete any educational requirement imposed as a
component of any sentence.
   D.   Unlawful Furnishing of Tobacco Products, E-Cigarettes, or Other Vaping
Devices to Minors:
      1.   It shall be unlawful for any person to knowingly furnish to any
minor, by gift, sale, or any other means, any tobacco product.
      2.   It shall be an affirmative defense to a prosecution under this
section that the person furnishing the tobacco product, e-cigarette, or other
vaping device was presented with and reasonably relied upon a document which
identified the minor receiving the item or items as being eighteen (18) years
of age or older.
   E.   Retail Sale of Tobacco Products, E-Cigarettes, or Similar Vaping
Device:
      1.   It shall be unlawful for any business proprietor, manager, or other
person in charge or control of a retail business of any kind to engage, employ,
or permit any minor to sell tobacco products, e-cigarettes, or similar vaping
devices, from such retail business.
      2.   It shall be unlawful for any business proprietor, manager, or other
person in charge of or control of a retail business of any kind to stock or
display a tobacco product, e-cigarette, or similar vaping device in any way
which allows a customer to access such tobacco product, e-cigarette, or similar
vaping device, without first securing the physical assistance of an adult
business employee for each transaction. The provisions of this section shall
not apply to stores possessing a valid retail liquor store license, as defined
by the Colorado Liquor Code, issued by the Town, and shall not apply to vending
machines meeting the requirements of this section.
   F.   Vending Machines:
      1.   It shall be unlawful for any person to sell or offer to sell any
tobacco product, e-cigarette, or other vaping device, by use of a vending
machine or other coin operated machine except that tobacco products, e-
cigarettes or other vaping devices may be sold at retail, through vending
machines only in places to which minors are not permitted access and such
vending machine is under the direct supervision of the owner of the
establishment or an adult employee of the owner.
      2.   It shall be unlawful for any person to possess or allow upon
premises controlled by such person an operable vending machine containing any
tobacco product, e-cigarette, or other vaping device, unless such vending
machine is located in a place where minors are not permitted access and such
vending machine is under direct supervision of the owner of the establishment
or an adult employee of the owner.
      3.   As used in this section, "under direct supervision" means the
vending machine shall be in plain vision of the adult employee or owner during
regular business hours.
   G.   Violation: Any person who shall violate any of the provisions of this
section shall be fined in a sum of not less than forty five dollars ($45.00)
nor more than seven hundred dollars ($700.00), per violation. (Ord. 319, 8-11-
2020)
4-2-11: SHOPLIFTING AND THEFT PROHIBITED:
The following provisions shall be applicable to the prohibition of shoplifting
and theft and the enforcement of this section:
   A.   Shoplifting Prohibited: It is unlawful for any person, without
authorization, whether by threat or deception, to knowingly obtain or in any
manner exercise control over any goods, wares, merchandise, or any other thing
of value having a value of less than one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) which is
owned or held by and offered or displayed for sale by any stores or other
mercantile establishments located within the town of Simla, and the person:
      1.   Intends to deprive the store or mercantile establishment permanently
of the use of the benefit of the thing of value; or
      2.   Knowingly uses, conceals, abandons, or otherwise exercises control
over the thing of value in such a manner as to deprive the store or mercantile
establishment permanently of its use or benefit; or
      3.   Uses, conceals, abandons, or otherwise exercises control over the
thing of value intending that the use, concealment, abandonment, or control
will deprive the store or mercantile establishment permanently of its use or
benefit.
For purposes of this section, the term "deception" includes obtaining a full or
partial refund for any goods the person knows have not been paid for or
attempting to purchase or purchasing any goods for which the person knows the
purchase price on the item has been altered.
It shall constitute prima facie evidence that a person intended to commit the
offense of shoplifting if the person wilfully conceals unpurchased goods,
wares, merchandise, or any other thing of value owned or held by and offered or
intended to be offered or displayed for sale by any store or other mercantile
establishment, whether the concealment be on the person or otherwise and
whether it takes place on or off the premises of the store or mercantile
establishment.
   B.   Concealment Of Goods: If any person wilfully conceals unpurchased
goods, wares, merchandise, or any other thing of value owned or held by and
offered or intended to be offered or displayed for sale by any store or other
mercantile establishment, whether the concealment be on their own person or
otherwise and whether such shall take place on or off the premises of the store
or mercantile establishment, the concealment shall constitute prima facie
evidence that the person intended to commit the offense of shoplifting.
   C.   Questioning Of Person Suspected Of Shoplifting Without Liability: If
any person conceals or otherwise carries away any unpurchased goods, wares,
merchandise, or other thing of value owned or held by and offered or intended
to be offered or displayed for sale by any store or other mercantile
establishment, the merchant or merchant's employee or any peace or police
officer, acting in good faith and upon probable cause based upon reasonable
grounds may detain and question the person in a reasonable manner for the
purpose of ascertaining whether the person is guilty of shoplifting.
Questioning of a person by a merchant, merchant's employee, or peace or police
officer does not render the merchant, merchant's employee, or peace or police
officer civilly or criminally liable for slander, false arrest, false
imprisonment, malicious prosecution, or unlawful detention.
   D.   Theft: It is unlawful for any person, without authorization, to
knowingly obtain or exercise control over anything having a value of less than
one thousand dollars ($1,000.00), which is owned or lawfully possessed by
another, and the person:
      1.   Intends to deprive the owner or lawful possessor permanently of the
use or benefit of the thing of value; or
      2.   Knowingly uses, conceals, or abandons the thing of value in a manner
as to deprive the owner or lawful possessor permanently of its use or benefit;
or
      3.   Uses, conceals, or abandons the thing of value in a manner as to
deprive the owner or lawful possessor permanently of its use or benefit.
   E.   Enforcement: Any person who shall violate any of the provisions of this
section shall be fined in a sum of not less than twenty five dollars ($25.00),
nor more than five hundred dollars ($500.00) and shall also be assessed with
the full restitution of the thing of value taken should the thing of value not
be returned in the same condition as when taken. (Ord. 268, 7-8-2008)
4-2-12: MARIJUANA FACILITIES AND RETAIL STORES:
   A.   Purpose And Prohibition: The purpose of this section is to promote the
general public welfare and safety throughout the town of Simla, Elbert County,
Colorado, and, as such, upon the passage of this section, the operation of
marijuana cultivation facilities, marijuana product manufacturing facilities,
marijuana testing facilities or retail marijuana stores within the incorporated
areas of the town of Simla, Elbert County, Colorado, shall be strictly
prohibited.
   B.   Definitions: Unless otherwise specified or the context otherwise
requires, any terms used herein shall have the same meanings as provided in
article XVIII, section 16 of the Colorado constitution. These definitions
include, but are not limited to, the following:
      MARIJUANA ACCESSORIES: Any equipment, products, or materials of any kind
which are used, intended for use, or designed for use in planting, propagating,
cultivating, growing, harvesting, composting, manufacturing, compounding,
converting, producing, processing, preparing, testing, analyzing, packaging,
repackaging, storing, vaporizing, or containing marijuana, or for ingesting,
inhaling, or otherwise introducing marijuana into the human body.
      MARIJUANA CULTIVATION FACILITY: An entity licensed to cultivate, prepare,
and package marijuana and sell marijuana to retail marijuana stores, to
marijuana product manufacturing facilities, and to other marijuana cultivation
facilities, but not to consumers.
      MARIJUANA ESTABLISHMENT: A marijuana cultivation facility, a marijuana
testing facility, a marijuana product manufacturing facility, or a retail
marijuana store.
      MARIJUANA OR MARIHUANA: All parts of the plant of the genus Cannabis
whether growing or not, the seeds thereof, the resin extracted from any part of
the plant, and every compound, manufacture, salt, derivative, mixture, or
preparation of the plant, its seeds, or its resin, including marihuana
concentrate. "Marijuana" or "marihuana" does not include industrial hemp, nor
does it include fiber produced from the stalks, oil, or cake made from the
seeds of the plant, sterilized seed of the plant which is incapable of
germination, or the weight of any other ingredient combined with marijuana to
prepare topical or oral administrations, food, drink, or other product.
      MARIJUANA PRODUCT MANUFACTURING FACILITY: An entity licensed to purchase
marijuana; manufacture, prepare, and package marijuana products; and sell
marijuana and marijuana products to other marijuana product manufacturing
facilities and to retail marijuana stores, but not to consumers.
      MARIJUANA PRODUCTS: Concentrated marijuana products and marijuana
products that are comprised of marijuana and other ingredients and are intended
for use or consumption, such as, but not limited to, edible products,
ointments, and tinctures.
      MARIJUANA TESTING FACILITY: An entity licensed to analyze and certify the
safety and potency of marijuana.
      MEDICAL MARIJUANA CENTER: An entity licensed by a state agency to sell
marijuana and marijuana products pursuant to section 14 of article XVIII of the
Colorado constitution and the Colorado medical marijuana code.
      RETAIL MARIJUANA STORE: An entity licensed to purchase marijuana from
marijuana cultivation facilities and marijuana and marijuana products from
marijuana product manufacturing facilities and to sell marijuana and marijuana
products to consumers.
   C.   Scope: This section shall apply within the incorporated town of Simla.
This section shall in no way limit application and enforcement of any statutes
of the state of Colorado but shall be in addition thereto.
   D.   Enforcement: This section shall be enforced by the town of Simla police
department.
   E.   Violation; Penalty: It shall be unlawful for any person to violate any
provision of this section. All violations of this section shall be brought in
the Simla municipal court.
      1.   Disposition Of Fines And Forfeitures: Unless otherwise provided by
law, all fines and penalties, and the surcharge thereon, for the violation of
this section shall be paid into the treasury of the town of Simla. The fine for
a first offense and for any subsequent offense shall be up to five hundred
dollars ($500.00) per violation and each day shall be deemed a separate
violation.
      2.   Surcharges: In addition to the fines and penalties prescribed in
this section, any person convicted of a violation of this section shall be
subject to the statutory surcharges as may be adopted and imposed by the Simla
municipal court. These surcharges shall be paid to the Simla municipal court
clerk by each person convicted of violating this section. (Ord. 292, 3-12-2013)
CHAPTER 3
POLICE DEPARTMENT
SECTION:
4-3-1: Purpose
4-3-2: Creation Of Police Department
4-3-3: Appointment Of Police Chief
4-3-4: Officers' Qualifications
4-3-5: Duties Of Officers
4-3-6: Amendments By Resolution
4-3-7: Policies And Procedures
4-3-1: PURPOSE:
The citizens of the Town did approve a Sales Tax ordinance on April 3, 1990,
wherein a portion of the proceeds from the Sales Tax revenue are to be used for
the maintaining of law enforcement. This chapter is to create a Simla Police
Department for the effective and efficient control and provision of law
enforcement and related services to the community. (Ord. 179, 5-2-1990)
4-3-2: CREATION OF POLICE DEPARTMENT:
This chapter creates the Simla Police Department, with attendant rules,
regulations, and policy manual, to address both law enforcement and enforcement
of this Code or other codes adopted by the Town. (Ord. 275, 12-8-2009)
4-3-3: APPOINTMENT OF POLICE CHIEF:
The Board shall appoint a Chief of Police in accordance with Colorado Revised
Statutes 31-4-304 and 31-4-306 within thirty (30) days after every regular
election. The Chief of Police shall be answerable to and under the control and
direction of the Board of Trustees or designated member thereof consistent with
the authority to enforce all Town ordinances or codes, but shall exercise
independent discretion regarding all police matters. (Ord. 275, 12-8-2009)
4-3-4: OFFICERS' QUALIFICATIONS:
The person or persons selected and employed by the Board of Trustees to serve
as a part time or full time police officer, shall be of high moral character,
have a good personal record, and be well suited in all ways to employment as a
Municipal police officer. (Ord. 179, 5-2-1990)
4-3-5: DUTIES OF OFFICERS:
The Town of Simla Marshal or Chief of Police shall have all duties and powers
as set forth in the Colorado Statutes. The primary duties of the Chief of
Police or Marshal and all other law enforcement officers of the Town shall be
the enforcement of the ordinances of the Town, including all traffic ordinances
adopted by the Town, and the enforcement of the Colorado Revised Statutes. The
Town law enforcement officers shall be furnished with a police manual detailing
his or her duties and manner of conduct as prepared by the Chief or Marshal and
amended or approved by the Board of Trustees. (Ord. 308, 12-12-2017)
4-3-6: AMENDMENTS BY RESOLUTION:
Any amendments, additions or other changes in this chapter shall henceforth be
made by resolution of the Board of Trustees. (Ord. 179, 5-2-1990)
4-3-7: POLICIES AND PROCEDURES:
   A.   The Board hereby approves the Simla Police Department policies and
procedures as set forth in the document of the same name, as presently
constituted. Such policies and procedures shall be applicable to all members of
the Police Department. A copy of such policies and procedures shall remain on
file in the Office of the Town Clerk and shall be available for inspection and
copying at reasonable business hours.
   B.   Any revisions to the policies and procedures shall be by resolution
after approval of the Board.
   C.   The policies and procedures shall replace rules and regulations adopted
by the Board on May 1, 1990. (Res. 89-1998, 9-2-1998)
CHAPTER 4
TURKEY CONTROL POLICY AND HUNTING REGULATIONS
SECTION:
4-4-1: Definitions
4-4-2: Archery Turkey Hunting Allowed On Private Property
4-4-3: Feeding Of Turkeys Prohibited
4-4-4: Permission Required
4-4-5: Responsibility
4-4-6: Contiguous Landowners
4-4-7: Safety Course
4-4-8: Shooting Prohibited
4-4-9: Conduct Prohibited
4-4-10: Retrieval Of Turkey
4-4-11: Penalty For Violations
4-4-1: DEFINITIONS:
 
                           Any longbow or compound bow. Archery devise shall
                           not include a crossbow, which is defined as a device
ARCHERY DEVICE:            for discharging quarrels, bolts, or arrows, formed
                           of a bow set crosswise on a stock, usually drawn by
                           means of a mechanism and discharged by the release
                           of a trigger.
                           Also referred to herein as CP&W, is a State of
                           Colorado agency tasked with setting the turkey
                           season dates and fees, promulgating applications for
                           turkey hunting, accepting or denying applications,
COLORADO PARKS & WILDLIFE: and setting deadlines for the submission of
                           applications. The CP&W also sets the fees for
                           acquiring turkey hunting licenses and habitat stamps
                           and the setting of all rules concerning the hunting
                           of turkeys. (Ord. 323, 6-9-2021)
 
4-4-2: ARCHERY TURKEY HUNTING ALLOWED ON PRIVATE PROPERTY:
A landowner may hunt turkeys, with an archery device, that are located on his
or her property, and may also give permission to others to hunt turkeys, with
an archery device, that are located on his or her property, provided that the
hunter has a hunting license issued by the CP&W, that the turkey hunting is in
season, and the hunter complies with all rules and regulations of the CP&W.
Turkeys shall not be hunted on public property. (Ord. 323, 6-9-2021)
4-4-3: FEEDING OF TURKEYS PROHIBITED:
It shall be unlawful for any person to feed turkeys. It shall also be unlawful
for any person to attempt to attract turkeys to his or her property by feeding
the turkeys or otherwise attempting to attract turkeys to his or her property
by artificial means. Calling turkeys, through sound effects, shall be allowed.
(Ord. 323, 6-9-2021)
4-4-4: PERMISSION REQUIRED:
It shall be unlawful for any person carrying an archery device of any type, to
knowingly enter onto the premises of another, or to enter onto public land, or
to discharge any archery device while on the property of another without first
having obtained written permission from the landowner. The duly obtained
written permission shall be carried on the person of the hunter requesting and
receiving such permission and shall be presented upon request to law
enforcement officials. The written permission shall include any parameters of
the hunt that may be required by the landowner. This section shall not apply to
a person carrying or discharging such a device while in the immediate presence
of the owner, lessee, or person in charge of the property. (Ord. 323, 6-9-2021)
4-4-5: RESPONSIBILITY:
Each landowner lessee, and person in charge of property where a hunt occurs,
and each hunter on any property upon which the permission to hunt has been
granted shall be held responsible for their actions and the actions of such
other persons to whom such permission has been granted for the same time period
by the landowner, lessee, or person in charge. (Ord. 323, 6-9-2021)
4-4-6: CONTIGUOUS LANDOWNERS:
Landowners and residents of contiguous lands must be notified, in writing, by
the landowner of the property where the hunt will occur prior to hunting taking
place. The notification shall include the proposed dates and time periods for
the hunt. The landowner of the property where the hunt will occur must be able
to show by appropriate documentation proof of receipt of the notification by
the landowners and residents of contiguous lands of the dates and time periods
of the hunt. (Ord. 323, 6-9-2021)
4-4-7: SAFETY COURSE:
Prior to hunting within the Town limits, every individual seeking to hunt shall
obtain a certificate of completion of an archery device hunter safety course as
approved or provided by the CP&W. (Ord. 323, 6-9-2021)
4-4-8: SHOOTING PROHIBITED:
No arrow fired from an archery device may be discharged or projected at such an
angle or distance as to land on public property or private property other than
the property on which the hunt has been authorized. (Ord. 323, 6-9-2021)
4-4-9: CONDUCT PROHIBITED:
No personal shall possess, consume or be under the influence of alcohol or any
other controlled substance while engaged in turkey hunting activities with the
Town limits. (Ord. 323, 6-9-2021)
4-4-10: RETRIEVAL OF TURKEY:
Any person who kills or injures a turkey while hunting shall make a reasonable
search to retrieve the turkey and take it into his or her possession. It shall
be the hunter’s responsibility to immediately notify any property owner, other
than the specific property owner who previously authorized the hunt, of the
fact that an injured or dead turkey is located on his or her property. It shall
be the hunter’s responsibility to obtain the permission of any property owner
upon which an injured or dead turkey is located prior to engaging in a
reasonable search and retrieval of the turkey. (Ord. 323, 6-9-2021)
4-4-11: PENALTY FOR VIOLATIONS:
Any person, entity, or group of individuals who shall perform an act in
violation of this section, or who shall fail to follow the rules and / or
regulations contained in this section, shall be deemed to have committed a
misdemeanor. The penalty for violating any provision of this section shall be
the assessment of a fine up Five Hundred Dollars per violation. (Ord. 323, 6-9-
2021)
TITLE 5
MOTOR VEHICLES AND TRAFFIC
CHAPTER 1
TRAFFIC CODE
SECTION:
5-1-1: Adoption
5-1-2: Penalties
5-1-3: Application And Interpretation
5-1-4: Amendments To Code
5-1-1: ADOPTION:
   Pursuant to parts 1 and 2 of article 16 of Title 31, and part 4 of article
15, of Title 30, C.R.S., there is hereby adopted by reference the 2020 edition
of the "Model Traffic Code" promulgated and published as such by the Colorado
Department of Transportation. Traffic Engineering and Safety Branch, 2829 W.
Howard Place, Denver, Colorado 80204. The subject matter of the Model Traffic
Code relates primarily to comprehensive traffic control regulations for the
Town. The purpose of this Chapter and the Code adopted herein is to provide a
system of traffic regulations consistent with state law and generally
conforming to similar regulations throughout the state and the nation. Three
(3) copies of the Model Traffic Code adopted herein are now filed in the office
of the Simla Town Clerk and may be inspected during regular business hours.
(Ord. 327, 12-14-2021; amd. Ord. 329, 1-4-2022)
5-1-2: PENALTIES:
   The following penalties, herewith set forth in full, shall apply to this
Chapter and the adopted Model Traffic Code:
   A.   It is unlawful for any person to violate any of the provisions adopted
in this Chapter and the adopted Model Traffic Code.
   B.   Every person convicted of a violation of any provision adopted in this
Chapter, through the adopted Model Traffic Code, shall be punished by a
surcharge set by the Town of Simla in accordance with 42-4-1701 (4)(e)(II),
C.R.S., which surcharge may be amended, by statute, from time to time.
   C.   Every person convicted of a violation of any provision adopted in this
Chapter, through the adopted Model Traffic Code, shall be punished by a fine
not exceeding two thousand six hundred fifty dollars ($2,650.00) A schedule of
fines shall be posted in accordance with the Colorado Municipal Court Rules of
Procedure.
   D.   Court costs shall be established pursuant to state statute.
(Ord. 327, 12-14-2021; amd. Ord. 329, 1-4-2022)
5-1-3: APPLICATION AND INTERPRETATION:
   This Chapter shall apply to every street, alley, sidewalk area, driveway,
park, and to every other public way or public place or public parking area,
either within or outside the corporate limits of the Town of Simla, the use of
which the Town of Simla has jurisdiction and authority to regulate. The
provisions of sections 1401, 1402, 1413, and part 16 of the adopted Model
Traffic Code, respectively concerning reckless driving, careless driving,
eluding a police officer, and accidents and accident reports shall apply not
only to public places and ways but also throughout the Town of Simla.
(Ord. 327, 12-14-2021; amd. Ord. 329, 1-4-2022)
5-1-4: AMENDMENTS TO CODE:
   The adopted Model Traffic Code, 2020 version, is subject to the following
additions or modifications:
   Part 1101. Speeding limits.
      A.   Twenty five (25) miles per hour in any business district or
residential district. (All non-state roads. Highway 24 speeds have been set by
the Colorado Department of Highways)
      B.   Fifteen (15) miles per hour in all alleys.
      C.   A special school zone, or zones, as defined by Part 6, Chapter 615
of the Model Traffic Code, as adopted by the Town of Simla, has been
established on State of Colorado Highway 24, at crossing locations as approved
by the Board of Trustees. Each school crossing and school zone has been
designated and identified by appropriate signage, as approved by the Town and
the Colorado Department of Transportation. The speed in any designated and
marked school zone shall not exceed twenty five (25) miles per hour. The signs
posted at both ends of a school zone identify the speed limit in the school
zone and inform those driving in the school zone that fines and surcharges
shall be doubled when compared to non-school zones on Highway 24.
(Ord. 327, 12-14-2021; amd. Ord. 329, 1-4-2022)
CHAPTER 2
TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
SECTION:
5-2-1: Schedule I - Through Streets
5-2-2: Schedule II - Decreased Speed Limits
5-2-3: Absolute Speed Limits
5-2-1: SCHEDULE I - THROUGH STREETS:
In accordance with the provisions of section 2-1 of the Model Traffic Code as
adopted in section
5-1-2 of this title and when official signs are erected giving notice thereof,
drivers of vehicles shall stop or yield as required by said signs at every
intersection before entering any of the following streets or parts of streets:
 
Name Of Street                  Portion Affected
                                (Terminal Limits)
U.S. Highway 24/ Caribou Street West Town limit to east Town limit
 
(Ord. 133, 12-30-1977; amd. 1990 Code)
5-2-2: SCHEDULE II - DECREASED SPEED LIMITS:
In accordance with the provisions of section 4-2 of the Model Traffic Code as
adopted in section
5-1-2 of this title and when official signs are erected giving notice thereof,
the prima facie speed limit shall be as specified for the following
intersections or approaches thereto:
 
Name Of Street Or Portion Affected               Decreased Speed Limit
Intersection      (Terminal Limits)
                  From 400 feet east of its
                  intersection with Pueblo
Fox Street        Avenue to 400 feet west of     15 E.B. & W.B.
                  said intersection with Sioux
                  Avenue
                  From 400 feet north of its
Pueblo Avenue     intersection with Fox Street   15 N.B. & S.B.
                  to 800 feet south of said
                  intersection with Sioux Avenue
 
(Ord. 133, 12-30-1977; amd. 1990 Code)
5-2-3: ABSOLUTE SPEED LIMITS:
In accordance with part 11, section 1101(7) of the Model Traffic Code, as
adopted by the Town of Simla, the speed limits as set forth on the speed signs
put in place by the Colorado Department of Transportation on Highway 24, as the
highway passes through the Town of Simla, are declared to be absolute as the
maximum lawful speed limits and not subject to part 11, section 1107(4) of the
Model Traffic Code, pertaining to evidence bearing upon the question of whether
or not the speed was reasonable and prudent under the conditions then existing.
(Ord. 302, 8-11-2015)
CHAPTER 3
ABANDONED AND WRECKED VEHICLES
SECTION:
5-3-1: Abandonment Prohibited
5-3-2: Wrecked Vehicles On Street
5-3-1: ABANDONMENT PROHIBITED:
No person shall abandon any vehicle within the Town, and no person shall leave
any vehicle at any place within the Town, for such times and under such
circumstances as to cause the vehicle reasonably to appear to be abandoned.
   A.   Whenever any police agent finds a vehicle, attended or unattended,
standing upon any portion of a street or highway right of way within the
boundaries of the Town in such a manner as to constitute abandonment, or left
unattended for a period of twenty four (24) hours so as to be assumed to be
abandoned, such agent shall require the vehicle to be removed or cause the
vehicle to be removed and placed in storage in the nearest garage or other
place of safety designated or maintained by the Town.
   B.   In the event of abandonment of a vehicle on property within the
Municipality other than public right of way, the owner of the property shall
notify the Board of Trustees. The Board of Trustees shall after a period of
seventy two (72) hours likewise cause the abandoned vehicle to be removed and
placed in storage in the nearest garage or other place of safety designated or
maintained by the Municipality.
   C.   Vehicles removed from streets or highways and other property within the
Town and placed in storage, as provided in this Section, shall be disposed of
by public or private sale if the vehicle is not claimed within forty (40) days
of its impoundment. The proceeds of said sale shall be used to pay the costs of
storage and/or sale. Any remaining proceeds shall be deposited in the Town's
Law Enforcement Fund. (1990 Code)
5-3-2: WRECKED VEHICLES ON STREET:
No person shall leave any wrecked, discarded, junked or partially dismantled
vehicle on any street or highway within the Town. (1990 Code)
CHAPTER 4
OFF-HIGHWAY VEHICLES
SECTION:
5-4-1: Definitions
5-4-2: Designation Of Open Streets And Off-Highway Vehicle Routes
5-4-3: Driving On State Highway Prohibited
5-4-4: Operation Of Off-Highway Vehicles
5-4-5: Colorado Registration Required
5-4-6: Colorado Off-Highway Vehicle Permit Required
5-4-7: Safety Equipment Required
5-4-8: Penalty
5-4-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, unless the context otherwise requires:
OFF-HIGHWAY VEHICLE: Any self-propelled vehicle which is designed to travel on
wheels or tracks in contact with the ground, which is designed primarily for
use off of the public highways, and which is generally and commonly used to
transport persons for recreational purposes. Off-highway vehicles include all
terrain vehicles (ATVs) and "go carts". Off-highway vehicles do not include the
following:
   A.   Vehicles designed and used primarily for travel on, over, or in the
water;
   B.   Snowmobiles;
   C.   Military vehicles;
   D.   Golf carts;
   E.   Vehicles designed and used to carry individuals with disabilities;
   F.   Vehicles designed and used specifically for agricultural, logging, or
mining purposes; or
   G.   Vehicles registered pursuant to title 42, article 3 of the Colorado
Revised Statutes.
OFF-HIGHWAY VEHICLE ROUTE: Any road, street, alley, or right-of- way within the
Municipal limits of the Town of Simla designated open by the Town of Simla
Board of Trustees for off-highway vehicle route but does not include State
Highway 24 except as to the three (3) designated crosswalks described herein.
OWNER: Any person, other than a lien holder, having a property interest in an
off-highway vehicle and entitled to the use and possession thereof. (Ord. 304,
9-14-2016, eff. retroactive to 9-1-2016)
5-4-2: DESIGNATION OF OPEN STREETS AND OFF-HIGHWAY VEHICLE ROUTES:
   A.   Pursuant to Colorado Revised Statutes 33-14.5-108(1)(a), each Town of
Simla Municipal street, alley, and right-of-way is designated as open for use
by off-highway vehicles excluding any part of the State of Colorado highway
system located within the Municipal limits of the Town of Simla, i.e., State
Highway 24.
   B.   Pursuant to Colorado Revised Statutes section 33-14.5-108(1)(f), each
Town of Simla Municipal street, alley, and right-of-way, excluding any part of
State Highway 24, is designated as an off-highway vehicle route to permit the
operation of off-highway vehicles on Municipal street, alleys, and rights-of-
way. (Ord. 304, 9-14-2016, eff. retroactive to 9-1-2016)
5-4-3: DRIVING ON STATE HIGHWAY PROHIBITED:
   A.   No person shall cross a State highway or drive on a State highway while
operating an off-highway vehicle within the jurisdiction of the Town of Simla
except that off-highway vehicles may cross State Highway 24 at the designated
crosswalks at Cheyenne, Sioux, and Pueblo Avenues. (Ord. 304, 9-14-2016, eff.
retroactive to 9-1-2016)
5-4-4: OPERATION OF OFF-HIGHWAY VEHICLES:
   A.   All Town of Simla public streets, roads, or alleys shall be open to
off-highway vehicles. The following regulations and restrictions shall apply as
to off-highway vehicles being driven on Town streets, roads, and alleys:
      1.   No person shall operate an off-highway vehicle while carrying any
person or riding in any position that interferes with the operation or control
of an off-highway vehicle or the view of the operator.
      2.   No person under the age of ten (10) years may operate an off-
highway vehicle on public streets, roads, or alleys of the Town of Simla.
      3.   No person ten (10) years of age or older may operate an off- highway
vehicle on a public street, road, or alley within the Town of Simla, unless:
         a.   The person has in his possession a valid driver's license issued
by the State of Colorado or another state; or
         b.   The person is accompanied by and is under the immediate
supervision of a person who has in his or her possession a valid driver's
license issued by the State of Colorado or another state, or is covered by
liability insurance. "Under immediate supervision" shall mean that, at a
minimum the operator is within direct visual contact of the licensed
supervisor. (Ord. 304, 9-14-2016, eff. retroactive to 9-1-2016)
5-4-5: COLORADO REGISTRATION REQUIRED:
   A.   Within the Town of Simla, no person shall operate any off- highway
vehicle unless such off-highway vehicle has a current valid registration issued
by the Colorado Division of Parks and Wildlife and is numbered by the Colorado
Division of Parks and Wildlife unless the vehicle is exempt as provided in this
chapter or under Colorado law.
   B.   No Colorado registration under this chapter is required for any:
      1.   Off-highway vehicle owned by any agency of the United States or
another state or a political subdivision thereof when such ownership is clearly
displayed on such vehicle;
      2.   Off-highway vehicle owned by a resident of another state or country
if such off-highway vehicle is covered by a valid license or registration of
such other state or country and such off- highway vehicle has not been within
this State for more than thirty (30) consecutive days;
      3.   Off-highway vehicle used strictly for agricultural purposes;
      4.   Off-highway vehicle used strictly on private property;
      5.   Off-highway vehicle operated in an organized competitive or
noncompetitive event on publicly or privately owned or leased land; except that
this exemption shall not apply unless the agency exercising jurisdiction over
such land specifically authorizes the organized competitive or noncompetitive
event;
      6.   Off-highway vehicle used by a dealer or manufacturer, or an
authorized designee thereof, for off-highway vehicle operator education or
safety programs.
   C.   The Town of Simla shall not require any Municipal registration for an
off-highway vehicle. (Ord. 304, 9-14-2016, eff. retroactive to 9-1-2016)
5-4-6: COLORADO OFF-HIGHWAY VEHICLE PERMIT REQUIRED:
   A.   No person shall operate an off-highway vehicle that does not have a
current, valid off-highway vehicle permit issued by the Colorado Division of
Parks and Wildlife and displayed as required by the Colorado Division of Parks
and Wildlife unless the off- highway vehicle is not required to be registered
or not required to be permitted under this chapter or Colorado law.
   B.   The following nonresident off-highway vehicles are exempt from the
permit requirement:
      1.   Vehicles owned by the United States or another state or political
subdivision thereof if such ownership is clearly displayed on such vehicles;
      2.   Vehicles operated in an organized competitive or noncompetitive
event on publicly or privately owned or leased land; except that this exemption
shall not apply unless the agency exercising jurisdiction over such land
specifically authorizes the organized competitive or noncompetitive event.
   C.   The Town of Simla shall not require any Municipal permit for an off-
highway vehicle. (Ord. 304, 9-14-2016, eff. retroactive to 9-1-2016)
5-4-7: SAFETY EQUIPMENT REQUIRED:
   A.   No off-highway vehicle shall be operated within the Town of Simla
unless it is equipped with the following:
      1.   At least one (1) lighted head lamp and one (1) lighted tail lamp,
each having the minimum candlepower prescribed by regulation of the Colorado
Division of Parks and Wildlife while being operated between the hours of sunset
and sunrise;
      2.   Brakes, a muffler, and spark arrester. (Ord. 304, 9-14-2016, eff.
retroactive to 9-1-2016)
5-4-8: PENALTY:
Any person convicted of violating this chapter may be fined fifty dollars
($50.00) for a first offense and up to an amount not to exceed five hundred
dollars ($500.00) for each violation which occurs within a one (1) year span
thereafter.
(Ord. 304, 9-14-2016, eff. retroactive to 9-1-2016)
CHAPTER 5
LICENSE OR PERMIT REQUIRED
SECTION:
5-5-1: Purpose And Scope
5-5-2: Possession Of Driver’s License Or Instruction Permit Required
5-5-3: Penalties
5-5-1: PURPOSE AND SCOPE:
   The purpose of this Chapter is to protect the health, safety, and welfare of
the residents of the Town by prohibiting persons from operating a motor vehicle
without a valid license or permit and providing the Town an additional avenue
to prosecute those persons.
(Ord. 339, 8-13-2024)
5-5-2: POSSESSION OF DRIVER'S LICENSE OR INSTRUCTION PERMIT REQUIRED:
   A.   No person shall operate a motor vehicle on the public highways or roads
in the Town without a current valid driver's, minor driver's or commercial
driver's license or instruction permit issued under C.R.S. § 42-2-101, 42-2-
106, and 42-4-404 in his or her immediate possession. A person shall present a
current and valid license or permit upon demand by a peace officer or other law
enforcement personnel.
   B.   A charge of a violation of this Section shall be dismissed by the
Municipal Court if the defendant produces a valid license or permit, which was
in full force and effect at the time of the alleged violation.
   C.   It is an affirmative defense to a charge of a violation of this Section
if the defendant produces written evidence that, at the time of the alleged
violation, such person was exempt from the requirement to obtain a license
pursuant to C.R.S. § 42-2-102.
(Ord. 339, 8-13-2024)
5-5-3: PENALTIES:
   Any person who violates this section shall be subject to a penalty not to
exceed one hundred dollars ($100).
(Ord. 339, 8-13-2024)
TITLE 6
PUBLIC WAYS AND PROPERTY
CHAPTER 1
STREETS, SIDEWALKS AND PUBLIC WAYS
SECTION:
6-1-1: Discretion Concerning Construction Or Improvements Of Streets And Alleys
6-1-2: Street Grades
6-1-3: Datum Plane Established
6-1-4: Street Work To Be In Compliance With Grades
6-1-5: Supervision And Construction Of Streets
6-1-6: Construction Of Curbs, Gutters And Sidewalks
6-1-7: Numbering Of Buildings And Lots
6-1-1: DISCRETION CONCERNING CONSTRUCTION OR IMPROVEMENTS OF STREETS AND
ALLEYS:
The board of trustees of the town of Simla shall have the power, as given by
state statute, to lay out, establish, open, alter, widen, extend, grade, pave,
surface, or otherwise improve streets and alleys within the town boundaries.
Such power concerning streets and alleys shall be within the total discretion
of the town board dependent upon review of all relevant factors. In the event
that the board determines that streets or alleys shall be improved, the costs
of such improvements may be assessed upon the lots or lands adjacent to or
abutting upon any street or alley or portion thereof so improved, which
assessments shall constitute a lien as provided in Colorado Revised Statutes
31-15-401(1)(d), as amended. (Ord. 234, 5-7-2002)
6-1-2: STREET GRADES:
The grades of the several streets of the town shall be the grade at the
centerline of such streets, and the grade between all points given shall be in
a uniform direct line between each two (2) points so given, ascending,
descending or level, as the case may be. The grades of the sidewalks along the
several streets shall be the grades at the building or lot line of the property
adjacent to such sidewalks, and the grades between all points where elevations
are given shall be in a uniform direct line between such points ascending,
descending or level, as the case may be, except when otherwise especially
provided. (Ord. 183, 5-7-1991; amd. Res. 95-99, 1-5-1999)
6-1-3: DATUM PLANE ESTABLISHED:
The datum plane, or bench mark, from which all elevations and grades of streets
and sidewalks in the town shall be determined shall be and remain on file in
the office of the town clerk.
To determine the elevation or grade of any street or sidewalk, where the grade
is established, reference shall be made to the profiles of such streets and
sidewalks on file in the office of the town clerk. All elevations indicated in
such profiles shall be from the established datum plane, or bench mark, for the
town. The town shall prepare a short concise set of regulations regarding
street base, degree of slope, and all other relevant information regarding the
specifications for street construction and shall have said regulations
available to interested parties. (Ord. 183, 5-7-1991; amd. Res. 95-99, 1-5-
1999)
6-1-4: STREET WORK TO BE IN COMPLIANCE WITH GRADES:
All work upon the streets and alleys of the town shall approximate, as near as
possible, to the grade of such streets and alleys as are established by the
board of trustees. (Ord. 183, 5-7-1991; amd. Res. 95-99, 1-5-1999)
6-1-5: SUPERVISION AND CONSTRUCTION OF STREETS:
The town shall be responsible for and assume supervision of all work or
construction of streets and alleys within the town boundaries. (Ord. 183, 5-7-
1991; amd. Res. 95-99, 1-5-1999)
6-1-6: CONSTRUCTION OF CURBS, GUTTERS AND SIDEWALKS:
   A.   Construction Specification: Specifications adopted by the board of
trustees for curbs, gutters and sidewalks shall include the form and
dimensions, the type of materials used in construction, the grade upon which
such construction shall be laid and the location of such curbs, gutters or
sidewalks, including curb cuts and corners.
The board of trustees have set specifications for construction of curbs,
gutters and sidewalks. A copy of the same is on file in the office of the Town
Clerk and Recorder for public inspection. (Ord. 183, 5-7-1991; amd. Res. 95-99,
1-5-1999)
   B.   Permit Required: Any person who wishes to construct or cause to be
constructed, curbs, gutters, or sidewalks on or adjacent to the dedicated
streets or alleys of the Town shall first obtain a permit for such construction
from the Town Building Inspector Code Enforcement Official who shall, prior to
issuing such permit, determine that the proposed construction is in conformity
with specifications for such construction as previously adopted by the Board of
Trustees. (Res. 99-99, 5-4-1999)
   C.   Compliance With Provisions: No curbs, gutters or sidewalks shall be
constructed on or adjacent to the dedicated streets or alleys of the Town which
shall not conform to the specifications for curbs, gutters and sidewalks as
adopted by the Board of Trustees.
   D.   Unlawful Construction: Any person making or causing to be made any
construction in violation of the terms of this Section shall be required to
remove such construction within a reasonable period of time, and failing to do
so, shall be required to pay the costs of removal which may be incurred by the
Town upon order by the Board of Trustees.
   E.   Repair By Town; Assessment: When the Town Board deems it necessary that
any portion of a sidewalk, curb and gutter, be constructed or repaired by the
owner of the adjacent or abutting property upon written notice, within one
hundred eighty (180) days after receipt thereof, the Town may construct or
repair the same, assess the cost thereof against the adjacent property owner,
and collect the assessment as provided in this Code. (Ord. 183, 5-7-1991; amd.
Res. 95-99, 1-5-1999)
6-1-7: NUMBERING OF BUILDINGS AND LOTS:
   A.   Each building and lot located within the Town shall be assigned a
number by the Town Clerk or such other designee as may be appointed by the
Board.
   B.   Within sixty (60) days of the assignment or fixing of the appropriate
number by the Town Clerk, or other designee, every owner of a building located
within the Town boundary shall affix the number either in a neat painted form,
attachable prepared numbers, or other suitable form approved by the Board, at a
location on or near the front door of the building. Such number shall be
attached in such a manner so that the number is clearly visible and readable
from the street closest to the front door.
   C.   Those owners of buildings already assigned numbers shall have sixty
(60) days from the effective date hereof to comply with this Section.
   D.   Failure to comply with this Section may result in a fine of twenty five
dollars ($25.00). Further and in addition to the penalty, the Town may cause
the number to be attached to the subject building and assess the owner with the
cost and labor of attaching the number. (Ord. 191, 9-7-1994; amd. Res. 95-99,
1-5-1999)
CHAPTER 2
TOWN CEMETERY
SECTION:
6-2-1: Administration
6-2-2: Fees And Charges
6-2-3: Sale Of Cemetery Lots
6-2-4: Grave Openings And Closings
6-2-5: Monuments And Markers
6-2-6: Decoration Of Gravesites
6-2-7: Maintenance Of Simla Cemetery And General Rules
6-2-8: Liability/Remedies
6-2-1: ADMINISTRATION:
   A.   The municipally owned cemetery, hereinafter known as the "Simla
Cemetery", shall be governed by the board, in conformance with applicable state
law, and the rules and regulations set forth in this chapter.
   B.   The board may appoint an advisory committee, known as the cemetery
board, to hear comment from the town residents and to advise the board on all
matters concerning the cemetery. The number and term of the cemetery board
members, if the cemetery board is formed by the town board, shall be set by
resolution.
   C.   The public works director for the town shall serve as sexton of the
cemetery and shall have responsibility for the operation and maintenance of the
cemetery. Further, the public works director, or his or her designee, including
licensed funeral home staff, shall be responsible for the direct supervision of
the burial upon the arrival of the funeral procession. The public works
director shall not permit the interment or other disposition of any body in the
cemetery unless the body is accompanied by a burial, removal, or transit
permit.
   D.   The town clerk shall have the responsibility for communicating with the
public concerning cemetery matters and policy, the sale of lots, recording of
purchases and interments, the maintenance of the cemetery map and directory,
and such other duties as assigned to the clerk by the town board. (Ord. 294, 7-
9-2013)
6-2-2: FEES AND CHARGES:
   A.   The cost for residents of the town to purchase cemetery lots shall be
three hundred dollars ($300.00) per lot. For non-residents, the cost to
purchase a cemetery lot shall be eight hundred dollars ($800.00) per lot. The
charges or cost for municipal cemetery services which will consist of the
opening and closing of a gravesite, unless other services are authorized by the
board, shall be three hundred dollars ($300.00) per gravesite. If the municipal
cemetery service concerns a cremation burial, the charges and cost shall be one
hundred fifty dollars ($150.00) per cremation burial. The town shall add the
sum of one hundred fifty dollars ($150.00) to municipal cemetery services
rendered on weekends or after three o'clock (3:00) P.M., on weekdays. Further,
upon purchase of a cemetery lot, the purchaser shall pay a fifty dollar
($50.00) perpetual maintenance fee. An additional fifty dollar ($50.00)
maintenance fee shall be paid when interment is made. The Board of Trustees may
change any of the costs stated in this section by ordinance or resolution.
(Ord. 294, 7-9-2013; amd. Ord. 343, 12-10-2024)
6-2-3: SALE OF CEMETERY LOTS:
   A.   Upon receiving full payment of the purchase price of a cemetery lot,
the town clerk shall deliver a properly executed deed of conveyance to the
purchaser. The deed shall not be recorded in the office of the Elbert County
clerk and recorder but shall be retained by the purchaser. A copy of the deed
shall be kept by the town and maintained in a book of records pertaining to
cemetery lots. The town clerk shall maintain a record of all cemetery lots that
have been sold, either by deed or otherwise, and shall further maintain a
record of all cemetery lots which contain human remains.
   B.   The rights, title, and interest acquired by the purchaser of a cemetery
lot shall be subject to the following conditions and reservations enforced by
the town:
      1.   No cemetery lot shall be acquired by a person for speculation or
profit. No cemetery lot shall be transferred by a purchaser except that the
purchaser, or his or her heirs, may sell the lot or lots to the town. In such
case the town shall pay the price which was originally paid for the cemetery
lot, or lots, as reflected on the deed or town records. The resale to the town
shall be subject to the town having available funds. Upon resale, the town may
sell the lot at current resale price.
      2.   No purchaser shall be entitled to purchase a cemetery lot which has
previously been used for interment. Should it be discovered that a lot is
inadvertently sold, due to faulty or old records, purchaser shall receive
another lot in as close a proximity to the original lot as possible.
      3.   The town, from time to time, may choose to designate certain
cemetery lots as unavailable for sale. (Ord. 294, 7-9-2013)
6-2-4: GRAVE OPENINGS AND CLOSINGS:
   A.   Except for exceptional circumstances requiring immediate burial, the
town clerk shall be notified at least two (2) working days (exclusive of
holidays) before an interment may be made. No lot or grave shall be opened,
closed, filled, sodded, or revegetated except by a town employee or employees,
which work shall be conducted under the direction of the public works director
or designee. No burial of the remains of other than the immediate family of the
owner of the lot shall be permitted unless a signed written notice is filed by
the owner, his or her heirs, or his or her assignees with the office of the
town clerk. The written notice shall be notarized or filed with proof of the
relationship of the heir or assignee to the owner. (Ord. 296, 12-10-2013)
   B.   The following regulations shall govern interment and disinterment:
      1.   One casket may be interred in each lot. Instead of a single casket,
up to four (4) cremains may be interred in a single lot. Cremains may be
interred over a casket previously interred in a single lot.
      2.   No animals shall be buried in the cemetery.
      3.   A concrete vault shall be required for each casket. Further an
outside container will be required for all burials excepting sealed cremains
containers.
      4.   No burials will be permitted on Sundays or official holidays without
prior approval of the town board or upon recommendation of the Colorado
department of public health and environment.
      5.   No disinterment shall be allowed without the permission of the state
of Colorado in accordance with applicable statutes and regulations, and without
the permission of the owner of the lot or the surviving next of kin of the
deceased. If consent of such persons cannot be obtained an order of the
district court shall be sufficient. Arrangements for disinterment shall be made
with the town public works director. No disinterment shall be made except by
town employees, or such assistance as may be retained by the town. The town
shall not be liable for any injury or damage, including, but not limited to,
damage to monuments, markers, caskets, liners, and vegetation overlying the
lot, incurred during the process of disinterment. (Ord. 294, 7-9-2013)
6-2-5: MONUMENTS AND MARKERS:
   A.   The rules and regulations concerning the placement of monument and
markers over a gravesite shall be as follows:
      1.   No marker or monument work shall be permitted on weekends or
holidays without prior approval of the public works director. The public works
director shall be notified at least four (4) days before a monument or marker
is placed on a cemetery lot so as to allow sufficient time for the public works
director to locate the subject gravesite or gravesites. The town shall assume
no responsibility for any monument or marker being placed in the wrong
location. Monument and marker firms, manufacturers, or installers shall be
responsible for any damage done to other monuments, markers, grass, trees,
walkways, or roads during the placement process. (Ord. 294, 7-9-2013)
      2.   Every grave, or lot, shall be marked with a permanent marker or
monument. Temporary metal markers provided by a funeral home are allowed until
a permanent monument or marker is obtained. Permanent markers or monuments
shall be placed within one year of interment. All monuments and markers shall
be set at the head of the cemetery lot with the inscription facing to the lot.
All monuments and markers shall be constructed of marble, granite, or bronze.
All monuments will be placed on concrete or bronze bases and no less than a
five inch (5") concrete platform will surround the edge of the monument or
marker. (Ord. 296, 12-10-2013)
      3.   Only one monument or marker will be allowed for each lot, even if
more than one cremains exist in said lot. Bases included on flat, ground level
monuments and markers shall be of the "flip down" inverted type construct so as
to facilitate flush consistency with the monument or marker when inverted. No
lot shall be marked or defined by any fence, coping, railing, hedge or
embankment, nor shall any lot be filled above the established grade. The use of
tile, bricks, gravel, crushed rock, shells, or similar material on or around
the cemetery lots is prohibited. (Ord. 294, 7-9-2013)
6-2-6: DECORATION OF GRAVESITES:
   A.   The rules and regulations concerning the decoration of graves in the
Simla Cemetery are as follows:
      1.   Artificial or fresh cut flowers may be placed on a lot in a metal or
plastic vase at any time but all decorations will be discarded when dead,
faded, broken, or otherwise in an unsightly condition. Artificial or fresh cut
flowers, wreaths, and evergreens shall be placed in a location on the lot so as
to not interfere with the routine maintenance of the lot by town personnel.
During mowing season all unused vases must be at ground level. Mowing will be
done by the town, when needed, and the town will not replace flowers. Small
United States flags and memorial flags shall also be permitted on cemetery
lots. However, flags will be removed when the flags become torn, frayed, or
otherwise unsightly.
      2.   No decorations, other than those set forth in subsection A1 of this
section, shall be allowed. Further, glass containers are prohibited. (Ord. 294,
7-9-2013)
6-2-7: MAINTENANCE OF SIMLA CEMETERY AND GENERAL RULES:
   A.   The town shall be responsible for the care, upkeep, and maintenance of
all roads, pathways, grass, shrubbery, improvements and the general grounds of
the cemetery. The individual lot owners shall be responsible to maintain all
monuments and markers as are erected on the owner's lot or lots.
   B.   All users of and visitors to the cemetery shall follow the listed rules
of conduct as set forth below:
      1.   The Simla Cemetery shall be open to the public from sunrise to
sunset.
      2.   In recognition of the solemn purpose and circumstances involved with
the cemetery, visitors shall not create a disturbance of the peace, disorderly
conduct, public nuisance, or other criminal activity which would disturb others
who are on the cemetery grounds. The public works director, with assistance
from the Simla police department, when necessary, may remove all persons who
violate this chapter and these rules from the cemetery grounds.
      3.   Any person or persons who desecrate the cemetery or violate state or
municipal laws, including removing, destroying or defacing flowers, shrubs,
trees, monuments, markers, or anything or any object of value placed there for
the beautification of the cemetery, shall be charged accordingly and prosecuted
by the town. It is prohibited to take flowers, or other grave decorations, from
the gravesite except by those persons who are closely related to the deceased.
      4.   Visitors to the cemetery must keep their vehicles on roadways as
designated on the cemetery map and as apparent on the grounds. (Ord. 294, 7-9-
2013)
6-2-8: LIABILITY/REMEDIES:
   A.   Nothing in this chapter shall be deemed to be a waiver of all defenses
available to the town under the Colorado governmental immunity act.
Particularly, the town shall not be liable for any injury or damage to any
remains, personal effects, monument, marker, landscaping, improvement, or other
structure or item in the cemetery resulting from allegations sounding in tort,
including alleged negligence.
   B.   Any person who violates the provisions of this chapter or the rules and
regulations set forth herein shall, upon conviction, be punished by a fine of
not more than five hundred dollars ($500.00) and may further be subject to an
order of restitution for damage caused. Each day that the violation shall
continue shall constitute a separate and distinct offense. (Ord. 294, 7-9-2013)
CHAPTER 3
WATER AND SEWER USE AND SERVICE
ARTICLE A. WATER USE REGULATIONS
SECTION:
6-3A-1: Town Waterworks System
6-3A-2: Water Maintenance Supervisor
6-3A-3: Emergency Situations
6-3A-4: Water Service, System Development Charges, And Connection Fees
6-3A-5: Water Meters; Regulations; Maintenance
6-3A-6: Extension Of Water System
6-3A-7: Authority To Turn Off Water
6-3A-8: Water Rates And Charges
6-3A-9: Prohibited Acts
6-3A-10: Penalty
6-3A-11: Billing; Nonpayment; Lien
6-3A-1: TOWN WATERWORKS SYSTEM:
The waterworks system of the town shall consist of the present municipal water
wells, the water of which shall be known and designated as the Simla
waterworks, and the said water system shall include all water mains, water
pipelines, storage tanks, meters and meter pits, and all additions and
appurtenances thereto or in any manner connected therewith and shall be owned,
managed and operated by the town under the designated name of "the Simla
waterworks". (Ord. 198, 9-4-1996)
6-3A-2: WATER MAINTENANCE SUPERVISOR:
There is hereby created the position of water maintenance supervisor. The town
board shall upon taking office appoint the water maintenance supervisor who
shall hold said appointment subject to the control and orders of the board and
who shall be subject to removal by the majority vote of the board. The water
maintenance supervisor shall be responsible for the general operation of the
water department and for all functions thereof and shall perform such functions
as the board may require, including, but not limited to, the following:
   A.   The water maintenance supervisor shall have full charge and control of
the operation of the Simla waterworks under the general supervision of the
mayor and board of trustees.
   B.   The water maintenance supervisor shall supervise and direct the
installation of water meters, meter pits, water pipelines, water mains, and any
and all other equipment necessary for the proper functioning of the Simla
waterworks and provision of water to the Simla residents.
   C.   The water maintenance supervisor shall make a report to the board of
trustees at each regular monthly meeting which report shall refer to all action
taken by the water maintenance supervisor concerning the Simla waterworks for
that preceding month. The water maintenance supervisor at the time of making
such report shall also furnish copies of such written documentation, if
applicable, concerning any work done during the month. (Ord. 198, 9-4-1996)
6-3A-3: EMERGENCY SITUATIONS:
The water maintenance supervisor shall be given the authority to make emergency
decisions concerning the use of municipal water by all users subject to
confirmation by the board at the next regular or special meeting after the
emergency action is taken. If possible and time allows, the water maintenance
supervisor shall, prior to taking emergency action, confer with the mayor or
other available board members. An emergency situation shall include, but not be
limited to, equipment or conduit failure, shortage of water, high use, water
pollution, or any other circumstance which threatens the municipal water supply
and/or the welfare of the town citizens. Such emergency decisions shall
include, but not be limited to, the authority to set watering or water use
restrictions, to shut off the water flow when deemed to be necessary, and to
take whatever other action is necessary to meet the requirements of this title.
(Ord. 198, 9-4-1996)
6-3A-4: WATER SERVICE, SYSTEM DEVELOPMENT CHARGES, AND CONNECTION FEES:
No initial connection to the town water main shall be made without an
application being submitted to the town clerk, by the applicant, for a water
connection permit. The permit shall require a permit charge, a system
development charge (previously known as a tap fee), and may also include cost
recovery agreement charges, or other charges when applicable. The property
owner or owners (applicant) shall obtain a written permit to connect to the
water main according to the specifications prescribed herein. The permit charge
shall be for each new, or renewed connection when applicable, and shall be
charged for all new users or connections regardless of whether the new user or
connection is tapping into an existing tap or directly into the water main. All
such connections, including the installation of a water line, connection, water
meter and meter pit (and accessories), when necessary shall be the actual and
financial responsibility of the applicant. As part of the permitting process,
the applicant shall provide to the town clerk the name and address of the
person or entity qualified (together with written evidence of such
qualifications) to construct and install the water line, connection, meter,
meter pit, and accessories, necessary to make the connection, and shall further
provide proof of liability insurance sufficient to cover any damage caused to
town property during the installation and connection. All such connections,
including the installation of a water meter and meter pit, shall be made under
the direct supervision of the water maintenance supervisor and no connection
shall be covered until the work has been inspected, and approved in writing, by
the supervisor. Of the amount paid to the town clerk for the system development
charge, twenty percent (20%) of the charge shall be applied towards the
administrative cost and work incurred by the town in processing the
application, and the remaining eighty percent (80%) of the charge shall be
applied towards the impact that the application and use will have on the town
water system. Applications for such connections must be made to the town clerk
and the fee, according to the following schedule shall be paid with the
application: (Ord. 259, 9-12-2006)
Effective January 1, 2013:
Meter Size Areas Inside The Town Limits Areas Outside The Town Limits
Meter Size Areas Inside The Town Limits Areas Outside The Town Limits
3/4 inch   $ 3,500.00                   $4,000.00
1 inch     4,200.00                     4,900.00
11/4 inch  5,700.00                     6,200.00
11/2 inch  7,000.00                     7,700.00
2 inch     10,400.00                    Determined by board
3 inch     17,200.00                    Determined by board
4 inch     24,000.00                    Determined by board
 
(Ord. 291, 12-11-2012)
Any town approval of or development agreement entered into between the town and
the developer/owner of property concerning or approved for the construction of
a multi-dwelling unit shall include a system development charge for water
service in the amount of three thousand five hundred dollars ($3,500.00), plus
the sum of five hundred dollars ($500.00) per planned dwelling unit. (Ord. 260,
12-5-2006, eff. 1-1-2007)
   A.   For a tap larger than those stated above, the tap fee will be set upon
application and approval of the town board of trustees.
   B.   Any permit issued shall specify the street address or other legal
description of the land or building for the service of which the permit is
issued and shall only be valid for connection to the town water mains for
service to the land or building described in the permit. (Ord. 198, 9-4-1996)
   C.   Any permit issued hereunder shall retain the stated system development
charge for up to one year from the date of issuance. Should the permittee fail
to connect to the town water mains within one year from the issuance of the
permit, then prior to making the connection to the town water main the
permittee shall pay any increase in the system development charge that may have
been implemented by the board of trustees since the issuance of the permit.
Further, should the permittee fail to connect to the town water mains within
two (2) years from the date of the issuance of the permit, then the permit
shall expire and become null and void and the permittee shall be required to
apply for a new permit prior to any connection. In the event that the
connection is not made within a period of two (2) years from the date of the
issuance of the permit, the system development charge shall be forfeited and
nonrefundable unless the permittee can show to the board of trustees'
satisfaction, by majority vote, that special circumstances beyond the
permittee's control prevented the connection from occurring in a timely manner.
(Ord. 230, 2-5-2002)
   D.   Upon connection to the water main, under those conditions as set forth
above, and/or upon reconnection by a subsequent user or any use after the water
has been disconnected or turned off for a period of time, water shall not be
available to the site until the property owner has first paid a "turn on" fee
of fifty dollars ($50.00), such fee to cover the administrative costs of the
town. Further, if the town is required to directly make the tap to the water
main due to the town's specialized tool or tools, an additional fee of one
hundred fifty dollars ($150.00) shall be assessed to cover the employee's time
and the use of the tool. The town's agreement to make the physical connection
will not affect the owner's obligation to conduct the digging and other
responsibilities set forth above. (Ord. 260, 12-5-2006, eff. 1-1-2007)
   E.   Upon disconnection of water service from the town water system, as
requested by the applicant or owner, a fee of one hundred fifty dollars
($150.00) shall be imposed by the town and paid prior to disconnection. The
town shall issue a permit for each disconnection made from the town water
system. Permits for disconnection shall be issued only to the property owner or
applicant, or his or her designated authorized agent. All such disconnections
shall be the actual and financial responsibility of the owner or applicant. As
part of the permitting process, the owner or applicant shall provide to the
town clerk or agent the name and address of the person or entity qualified to
do such work (together with the written evidence of such qualifications) and
shall further provide proof of liability insurance sufficient to cover any
damage caused to town property during the disconnection process. All such
disconnection work shall be made under the direct supervision of the water
maintenance supervisor and the disconnection work shall not be covered until
the work has been inspected and approved in writing by the supervisor. After a
disconnection has taken place, and been approved by the town, no new connection
shall take place without such connection being subject to a system development
charge as set forth in this chapter. (Ord. 275, 12-8-2009)
6-3A-5: WATER METERS; REGULATIONS; MAINTENANCE:
   A.   All premises and property using the town water supply must be equipped
with an approved water meter and accessories furnished by the town at the
current cost, plus the connection fee as set forth above. Each meter that is
installed shall include, either in the meter itself or at a location approved
by the water maintenance supervisor, a residential dual check valve backflow
prevention device.
   B.   The town herein adopts certain cross connection control regulations.
Such regulations shall incorporate all applicable state and federal laws,
rules, regulations, codes, and legislation concerning cross connection control
and backflow prevention. Such regulations shall include the general
requirements, standards for backflow prevention devices, installation
requirements, testing and maintenance requirements, and other relevant matters.
The regulations shall be available for inspection at the clerk's office at
reasonable business hours.
   C.   All water meters, meter pits, shutoff boxes, and other relevant
equipment shall be installed only at a location approved in advance by the
water maintenance supervisor. A curb stop shall be inserted in each service
pipe, protected by a curb stop cover with the word "water" marked thereon, at
the cost of the owner of the premises, and shall be kept in repair by the owner
of the premises so that it can be used at any time by the town personnel in
shutting off and turning on the supply of water to the premises.
   D.   All service pipes from the mains to the owner's property line shall be
installed by, and at the cost of, the owner of the property to be served on the
application for service. Such installation shall be under the inspection of the
water maintenance supervisor, or his or her designee. All service lines and
other materials that will be buried underground shall, at the cost of the
owner, have a metal "tracer line" if the installed line is not made of metal.
   E.   No service shall be installed unless the work and material conforms to
the standards and regulations promulgated by the town board.
   F.   All repairs for service pipes and plumbing systems of buildings
existing on the premises of the owner shall be made by and at the expense of
the owners of the premises served. (Ord. 202, 5-6-1997)
   G.   Any and all water meters, meter pits, shutoff boxes, and related
accessories installed within the town of Simla pursuant to this code shall be
and shall remain the property of the town. In the event of a disconnection from
the town water system, such equipment shall be returnable to the town. (Ord.
220, 4-4-2000)
   H.   All residences, businesses, and other structures connected to the town
water system, until such time as the water system is lawfully disconnected from
the town water system, shall use and pay for water delivered through the
system, and shall not import water to the residence, business, or structure
other than bottles, jugs, or similar containers for drinking water purposes. No
inhabited dwelling shall be allowed to import water for domestic purposes, such
as dish and clothes washing, bathing and showering, flushing of toilets, and
similar uses, other than drinking water. This provision shall not apply to any
residence or business furnished water by an approved domestic water well. (Ord.
297, 2-11-2014; amd. Ord. 319, 8-11-2020)
6-3A-6: EXTENSION OF WATER SYSTEM:
In addition to the water mains and pipes already laid, the board of trustees
shall have exclusive right to extend all other mains and pipes deemed
necessary, upon, through, under and along all streets, alleys and parks within
the corporate limits, where it may be necessary, requisite and proper for the
purpose of supplying water to any person or persons in the town or to any
entity adjacent to or adjoining the corporate limits of the town. Requests for
extension of water services that are not otherwise provided for in this title
by owners of unplatted, unsubdivided property and/or platted but undeveloped
property, shall be governed by the relevant provisions of this code. (Ord. 198,
9-4-1996)
6-3A-7: AUTHORITY TO TURN OFF WATER:
The town reserves the right at any time with or without notice to shut off the
water in the main for the purpose of making repairs or extensions. (Ord. 198,
9-4-1996)
6-3A-8: WATER RATES AND CHARGES:
The town is imposed with the duty of providing certain municipal services
within its boundaries, including the provision of water to its citizens. In
order to pay for the Simla water improvement project, promote orderly
development, protect the health, safety and welfare of its citizens, and to
maintain self-supporting water facilities for the benefit of the community,
certain rates, charges, levies and regulations are hereby imposed. (Res. 189-
2013, 1-8-2013)
   A.   Residential Rates Within The Town Of Simla:
      1.   November 1 to April 30 of each year:
 
Rate   Schedule (In Gallons)
       
$27.65 First 4,000
2.18   Each additional 1,000 to 15,000
2.61   Each additional 1,000 to 30,000
3.19   Each additional 1,000 over 30,000
 
      2.   May 1 to October 31 of each year:
 
Rate   Schedule (In Gallons)
       
$27.65 First 6,000
2.18   Each additional 1,000 to 15,000
2.61   Each additional 1,000 to 30,000
3.19   Each additional 1,000 over 30,000
 
   B.   Commercial Rates Within The Town Of Simla (Year Round):
 
Rate   Schedule (In Gallons)
       
$30.22 First 5,000
2.80   Each additional 1,000 over 5,000
 
   C.   Rates For Out Of Town Users:
 
Rate   Schedule (In Gallons)
       
$46.53 First 4,000
3.00   Each additional 1,000 over 4,000
 
   (Res. 198-2014, 1-14-2014)
Further, any out of town user who uses or obtains water from within the town
and conveys the water out of the town, in bulk, whether by vehicle or
otherwise, shall be required to pay the sum of fourteen dollars ($14.00) for
each one thousand (1,000) gallons of water used. Bulk users may apply to the
board for a variance when there exist valid reasons for a variance. Each
application shall be considered on a case by case basis by the board.
The town hereby declares its stated policy of supplying all in town needs
before allowing the conveyance of water outside of the town limits.
Accordingly, the town reserves the right, upon proper notice, to terminate
service to any out of town user should any emergency or unforeseen problem
arise which necessitates the use of the municipal water supply strictly to town
residents or should circumstances occur which mandate that the water supply be
used solely for in town use. (Ord. 225, 1-3-2001)
   D.   Multiple Units: When there are multiple dwelling units which are
connected by only one tap to the main water line, e.g., apartments, mobile home
parks, etc., each occupied unit will be treated as a residence, subject to the
above stated minimum residential rates. The owner of the property shall be
responsible for establishing with the town clerk whether or not a particular
unit is occupied and the dates of occupation. (Ord. 198, 9-4-1996)
   E.   Availability To Serve: Vacant property with a tap connection to the
town main, regardless of use or nonuse of the town water supply, shall be
metered and will be required to pay a monthly rate. Nonuse of the town water
supply shall result in an assessment of the minimum rate of nine dollars fifty
cents ($9.50) per month. (Res. 198-2014, 1-14-2014)
   F.   Adjustments: On an annual basis, commencing on January 1, 2006, those
rates referred to in subsections A, B, and C of this section, shall be adjusted
by the amount of any increase of the previous year's Denver-Boulder consumer
price index with no further action of the board of trustees. The annual
adjustment shall continue to take place, thereafter, in the January billing.
The adjusted rate increase, upon computation by the town, shall be placed in
this section for review by the town citizens and other interested parties.
(Ord. 259, 9-12-2006)
6-3A-9: PROHIBITED ACTS:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person to tamper with, break, cut or pull
down or in any manner interfere with any pump, machine, pipe main, meter, curb
stop, tank or any other connection or construction in or about the Simla
waterworks or any part thereof.
   B.   It shall be unlawful for any person in any manner to pollute the water
in any well, pipeline, storage tank, or other equipment connected with the
Simla waterworks or to cast into such well or pipe any garbage or other
substance calculated to make the water in the Simla waterworks impure.
   C.   Failure of any person to follow the regulations concerning cross
connection control and the installation of backflow prevention devices shall be
grounds for discontinuance of water service to the offending premises, such
discontinuance to be summary and immediate to protect the purity of the town
water supply. (Ord. 202, 5-6-1997)
6-3A-10: PENALTY:
Any person violating any provision of this article shall be fined not less than
forty five dollars ($45.00) nor more than seven hundred dollars ($700.00) for
each offense; and a separate offense shall be deemed committed on each day
during or on which a violation occurs or continues. (Ord. 198, 9-4-1996; amd.
Ord. 319, 8-11-2020)
6-3A-11: BILLING; NONPAYMENT; LIEN 1 :
In all cases, the property owner shall be held responsible for the payment of
the water use and rates, and in case the supply is shut off for nonpayment, the
water shall not be reconnected until the delinquent charges have been paid
together with the sums set forth below: (Ord. 198, 9-4-1996)
   A.   Monthly charges shall commence and accrue immediately upon occupation
of the subject property. Charges for water used are to be billed monthly on or
about the first day of each month. Payment received on or before the fifteenth
day of the same month billed shall be deemed to have been paid by the scheduled
due date. Payments received six (6) days after the scheduled due date of the
month shall be considered to be delinquent and shall be subject to a
delinquency charge of fifteen dollars ($15.00) or five percent (5%) of the
principal amount owed whichever is greater beginning upon the delinquent date
and continuing up to, but not exceeding, four (4) additional months. (Ord. 217,
12-7-1999, eff. 1-1-2000)
   B.   If at any time a bill is not paid within forty five (45) days after
mailing the same to the user, the town may disconnect such user's water
service. If the subject property is connected by the same tap as used by
another owner and the other owner is not delinquent, the town may take such
action as is necessary to disconnect the water service to the delinquent user
while maintaining water service to the nondelinquent user. Such action may
include, but not be limited to, excavation and installation of such pipes,
valves, meter and other materials necessary to establish separate service. In
such event the delinquent user and/or owner of the property shall be assessed
with the costs incurred by the town in obtaining the disconnection of services.
Additionally, the delinquent user and/or owner shall be assessed an
administrative "turnoff" fee of twenty five dollars ($25.00) which sum shall be
added to the other costs described herein.
A reconnection fee of fifty dollars ($50.00), together with the actual costs of
disconnection and the payment of all past due amounts, shall be required and
paid before the water service is restored to the property. (Ord. 260, 12-5-
2006, eff. 1-1-2007)
Should the use requested by the owner require or should it be required by the
town that the water be disconnected for inspection purposes only, the cost of
disconnection and reconnection shall be thirty dollars ($30.00). (Ord. 268, 7-
8-2008)
   C.   It shall be unlawful for any user to unilaterally reconnect his or her
water service after the town has disconnected the water service and before said
user has paid the reconnection fee and all past due amounts, including cost and
late charges. The town shall be solely empowered to reconnect all water use and
not the user. Any user who wrongfully reconnects the water service without
authority from the town shall be subject to those penalties as set forth in
section
6-3A-10 of this article.
   D.   In addition to the remedies as set forth above, charges for water shall
be a lien upon the property as provided by statute. Whenever a bill for water
service remains unpaid forty five (45) days after it has been mailed, the town
clerk may file with the Elbert County clerk and recorder, a statement of lien
claim. This statement shall contain the legal description of the premises
served, the amount of the unpaid bill, and a notice that the town claims a lien
for this amount as well as for all charges for water service subsequent to the
period covered by the bill. Property subject to a lien for unpaid water charges
shall be sold for nonpayment for the same, and the proceeds of such sale shall
be applied toward the payment of the charges, after deducting costs, including
reasonable attorney fees, as is the case of the foreclosure of statutory liens.
Such foreclosure shall be by and in the name of the town of Simla. Further, the
town clerk may certify the late charges and fees to the county commissioners of
Elbert County, Colorado, to be placed upon the tax roll and obligation of the
subject property owner, together with appropriate interest. (Ord. 198, 9-4-
1996)
 
Notes
1 1. See section 3-3-2 of this code for application of water use rates and fees
  to garbage collection.
ARTICLE B. WASTEWATER SYSTEM RULES AND REGULATIONS
SECTION:
6-3B-1: Purpose And Policy
6-3B-2: Definitions
6-3B-3: Qualified Maintenance Manager And Certified Facility Operator
6-3B-4: Individual Wastewater Disposal Systems
6-3B-5: Wastewater Service
6-3B-6: Connection And Installation Of System
6-3B-7: Costs And Charges
6-3B-8: Prohibitions And Limitations On Wastewater Discharge
6-3B-9: Authority Of Inspectors
6-3B-10: Wastewater Discharge Limitations
6-3B-11: Control Of Prohibited Wastes
6-3B-12: Industrial Wastewater Monitoring And Reporting
6-3B-13: Industrial Discharge Permit System
6-3B-14: Enforcement And Penalties
6-3B-1: PURPOSE AND POLICY:
These rules and regulations set forth uniform requirements for users of the
publicly owned treatment works for the Simla wastewater system and enables the
town to comply with all applicable state and federal laws, including the
federal water pollution control act amendments of 1972, and the clean water act
of 1977, with subsequent amendments. The objectives of these rules and
regulations are:
   A.   To prevent the introduction of pollutants into the publicly owned
treatment works, hereinafter referred to as POTW, which would interfere with
its operation;
   B.   To prevent the introduction of pollutants into the POTW that would pass
through the POTW, inadequately treated, into receiving waters, or otherwise be
incompatible with the POTW;
   C.   To protect both POTW personnel who may be affected by wastewater and
sludge in the course of their employment and to protect the general public;
   D.   To enable the town to comply with any and all federal or state laws to
which the POTW is subject;
   E.   To enable the town to control the right to any use of the sewage system
by conditional grants of permission which are subject to future conditions,
suspension, and revocation.
These rules and regulations shall apply to all users of the POTW. These rules
and regulations authorize the issuance of wastewater connection permits;
establish conditions for service; provide for enforcement activities; establish
administrative procedures; and provide for the setting of fees for the
equitable distribution of costs resulting from the program established herein.
(Ord. 212, 8-3-1999)
6-3B-2: DEFINITIONS:
Unless the context indicates otherwise, the meanings of terms used in this
article shall be as follows:
ACT: The federal water pollution control act amendments of 1972, and subsequent
amendments, including the clean water act of 1977.
AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF INDUSTRIAL USER: A principal executive officer of
at least the level of vice president, if the industrial user is a corporation;
a general partner or proprietor if the industrial user is a partnership or
proprietorship, or a duly authorized representative of the individual
designated above if such representative is responsible for the overall
operation of the facility from which the indirect discharge originates.
BOD OR BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND: The quantity of oxygen utilized in the
biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory methods of
five (5) days at twenty degrees Celsius (20°C), expressed in terms of weight
and concentration (milligrams per liter).
BIOCIDES: Those chemical compounds commonly known as herbicides, fungicides,
rodenticides, insecticides, or bactericides.
BUILDING DRAIN: That part of the lowest horizontal piping of a drainage system
which receives the discharge from soil, waste, and other drainage pipes inside
the walls of the building and conveys it to the building sewer, beginning five
feet (5') outside the inner face of the building wall.
BUILDING SEWER: The extension from the building drain to the utility or other
place of disposal.
BYPASS: The intentional diversion of waste streams from any point of a user's
service connection.
CDPS OR COLORADO DISCHARGE PERMIT SYSTEM: The program for issuing,
conditioning, and denying permits for the discharge of pollutants from point
sources into surface water of the state of Colorado under conditions of the
delegation of authority to administer a state water quality control program
pursuant to section 402 of the act.
CERTIFIED FACILITY OPERATOR: That qualified person, who is trained and
certified by the state of Colorado and/or the United States of America, as may
be applicable, and who is appointed and employed by the town for the purpose of
testing, monitoring, and assuring compliance with the town as to the
requirements of the town's Colorado discharge permit, and who is qualified to
perform those duties as set forth in sections
6-3B-10 through
6-3B-14 of this article.
COLLECTION LINE: That portion of the wastewater treatment system which collects
and transmits wastewater from users to the wastewater treatment plant,
excluding service lines.
COMBINED SEWER: A sewer line receiving both surface runoff and sewage.
COMMERCIAL: That use which pertains to all wastewater service provided to other
than residential, restaurant, or industrial users.
COMPLIANCE SCHEDULE: A schedule containing increments of progress in the form
of dates for the commencement and/or completion of major events leading to the
construction and operation of additional treatment or pretreatment required for
the user to meet the applicable treatment or pretreatment standards.
COMPOSITE SAMPLE: Multiple samples collected at equally spaced intervals or
proportioned according to flow, which may be flow paced, and combined into one
sample.
CONVENTIONAL POLLUTANT: BOD, suspended solids, pH, and fecal coliform bacteria,
and such additional pollutants as are now or may in the future be specified and
controlled in the utility's permit for its wastewater treatment works where
said works have been designed and used to reduce or remove pollutants.
COOLING WATER: The water discharged from uses such as air conditioning or
refrigeration or to which the only pollutant added is heat.
CUSTOMER OR USER: The person or authorized agent of the person or entity
designated on the records of the town as the person responsible for payment of
charges incurred for the use of the wastewater service system at the premises
being served.
DOMESTIC WASTES OR SANITARY WASTES: Liquid waste from the noncommercial
preparation, cooking and handling of food, or that which contains human
excrement and similar matter discharged into a collection line from the
sanitary conveniences of dwellings, commercial buildings, industrial
facilities, and other institutions.
FIXTURE UNIT EQUIVALENT: The unit value prescribed for plumbing fixtures as set
out in the uniform plumbing code, latest edition, computed on the basis of the
design capability of such fixture to permit the flow of water or wastewater.
GARBAGE: Solid wastes from the domestic and commercial preparation, cooking and
dispensing of food, and from the handling, storage, and sale of food and
produce.
GRAB SAMPLE: A single dip and take sample collected so as to be representative
of the parameter being monitored.
INCOMPATIBLE POLLUTANT: Any pollutant which is not a "conventional pollutant"
as defined herein.
INDIVIDUAL WASTEWATER DISPOSAL SYSTEM: A septic tank, cesspool or similar self-
contained receptacle or facility which collects and/or treats or otherwise
disposes of wastewater and which is not connected to the wastewater treatment
system of the town.
INDUSTRIAL USER: A source of indirect discharge under regulations pursuant to
or for which local pretreatment standards have been published by the
environmental protection agency or for which local pretreatment standards have
been established.
INDUSTRIAL WASTES: Any liquid, solid, or gaseous waste or form of energy or
combination thereof resulting from any process or operational procedure of an
industrial user, that is nondomestic in nature, and is distinct from sanitary
wastes.
INTERFERENCE: Inhibition or disruption of the POTW's sewer system, treatment
processes or operations or which contributes to a violation of any requirement
of the town's permit. The term includes prevention of sewage sludge use or
disposal by the POTW in accordance with section 405 of the act or any criteria,
guidelines or regulations developed pursuant to the solid wastes disposal act,
the resource conservation and recovery act, the clean air act, the toxic
substances control act, or more stringent state criteria applicable to the
method of disposal or use employed by the POTW.
NPDES OR NATIONAL POLLUTANT DISCHARGE ELIMINATION SYSTEM: The program for
issuing, conditioning, and denying permits for the discharge of pollutants from
point sources into the navigable waters, the contiguous zone, and the oceans
pursuant to section 402 of the act. This shall be analogous with the term CDPS,
Colorado discharge permit system, wherein the state of Colorado is delegated
the authorities and responsibilities outlined above.
NATURAL OUTLET: Any outlet into a watercourse, pond, ditch, lake or other body
of surface or ground water.
NEW SOURCE: Any industrial user, the construction of which is commenced after
the effective date of regulations prescribing a section 307(c) (33 USC 1317)
categorical pretreatment standard which will be applicable to such industrial
user.
NORMAL DOMESTIC STRENGTH WASTEWATER: Wastewater that when analyzed by standard
methods contains no more than two hundred milligrams per liter (200 mg/l) of
suspended solids and two hundred milligrams per liter (200 mg/l) of BOD.
PERMIT: The right of discharge of domestic or sanitary wastes into the town's
collection lines.
pH: The logarithm of the reciprocal of the concentration of hydrogen ions in
moles per liter of solution, measured in a scale from one to fourteen (14) (1
to 7 = acidic; 7 to 14 = base) with seven (7) being neutral.
PRETREATMENT: Application of physical, chemical and/or biological processes to
reduce the amount of pollutants in or to alter the nature of the pollutant
properties in wastewater prior to discharging such wastewater into the
wastewater treatment system.
PRETREATMENT STANDARDS: All applicable federal rules and regulations
implementing section 307 of the act, as well as any nonconflicting state or
local standards. In cases of conflicting standards or regulations, the more
stringent thereof shall be applied.
PROPERLY SHREDDED GARBAGE: The wastes from the preparation, cooking and
dispensing of food that have been shredded to such a degree that all particles
will be carried freely under the flow conditions normally prevailing in public
sewers, with no particle greater than one-half inch (1/2") in any dimension.
PUBLICLY OWNED TREATMENT WORKS (POTW), WASTEWATER TREATMENT SYSTEM, SEWER
SYSTEM, OR WASTEWATER SYSTEM: Any devices, facilities, structures, equipment or
works owned or used by the town for the purpose of the transmission, storage,
treatment, recycling, and reclamation of domestic wastes, or necessary to
recycle or reuse water, including intercepting sewers, outfall sewers, natural
treatment systems, collection lines, pumping, power and other equipment, and
their appurtenances and excluding service lines; extensions, improvements,
additions, alteration, or any remodeling thereof; elements essential to provide
a reliable recycled supply such as standby treatment units and clear well
facilities; and any works, including the land and sites that may be acquired,
that will be an integral part of the treatment process or is used for ultimate
disposal of residues resulting from such treatment.
QUALIFIED MAINTENANCE MANAGER: That qualified person, as defined herein,
appointed and employed by the town to administer these rules and regulations
and to oversee the technical and practical operation of the POTW.
RECEIVING WATER: Lakes, rivers, streams or other watercourses which receive
treated or untreated wastewater.
RESIDENTIAL: Pertaining to wastewater service provided premises used as
dwelling places or residences, including single-family dwellings, common wall
multi-family dwellings, mobile home, and manufactured homes.
SERVICE LINE: The wastewater collector line extending from the wastewater
disposal facilities of the premises up to and including the connection to the
collection line.
SIGNIFICANT INDUSTRIAL USER:
   A.   All industrial users subject to categorical pretreatment standards
under 63.14 through 63.52, and
   B.   Any other industrial user that: discharges an average of twenty five
thousand (25,000) gallons per day or more of process wastewater to the POTW
(excluding sanitary, noncontact cooling and boiler blowdown wastewater);
contributes a process waste stream which makes up five percent (5%) or more of
the average dry weather hydraulic or organic capacity of the POTW treatment
plant; or is designated as such by the control authority, as defined in 63.7
(O), on the basis that the industrial user has a reasonable potential for
adversely affecting the POTW's operation or for violating any pretreatment
standard or requirement.
   C.   Upon a finding that an industrial user meeting the criteria in
subsection B of this definition has no reasonable potential for adversely
affecting the POTW's operation or for violating any pretreatment standard or
requirement, the control authority may at any time, on its own initiative or in
response to a petition received from an industrial user or POTW determine, in
accordance with paragraph 63.9(E)(4) in those instances where the POTW is the
control authority, that such industrial user is not a significant industrial
user.
SIGNIFICANT VIOLATION: A violation of this article which remains uncorrected
forty five (45) days after notification of noncompliance; or which is a pattern
of noncompliance over a twelve (12) month period; or which involves a failure
to accurately report noncompliance; or which resulted in the POTW exercising
its emergency authority under section 403.8(F)(1)(IV)(B) of the act.
SLUDGE: Any discharge of water, sewage or industrial waste which contains any
substances regulated by this article in concentrations which exceed for any
period longer than fifteen (15) minutes more than five (5) times the average
daily concentration of that substance during normal operations and exceeds the
limitations contained in this article, or which causes a two-fold or more
increase in discharge rate for a period longer than twenty (20) minutes; or
causes the user's effluent to violate the pH limitations provided in this
article for a period longer than twenty (20) minutes.
STORM DRAIN: A sewer which carries storm and surface waters and drainage, but
excludes sewage and industrial wastes, other than unpolluted water.
STORM WATER: Water flowing or discharged as a result of rain, snow, or other
precipitation.
SUSPENDED SOLIDS: The total suspended matter that floats on the surface or is
suspended in water, wastewater or other liquids, and which is removable by
laboratory filtering by standard methods.
UNPOLLUTED WATER: Water which does not contain any substances limited or
prohibited by the effluent standards in effect or water whose discharge will
not cause any violation of receiving water quality standards.
USER: Any person who discharges, or causes or permits the discharge of
wastewater into the town's wastewater treatment system.
USER CLASSIFICATION: A classification of users such as residential, commercial,
restaurant, industrial, or significant industrial user.
WASTEWATER: The liquid and water carried industrial or domestic wastes from
dwellings, commercial buildings, industrial facilities and institutions,
together with any ground water, surface water and storm water that may be
present, whether treated or untreated.
WASTEWATER TREATMENT SYSTEM OR WASTEWATER SYSTEM: Any devices, facilities,
structures, equipment or works owned or used by the town for the purpose of the
transmission, storage, treatment, recycling, and reclamation of industrial and
domestic waters, or necessary to recycle or reuse water at the most economical
cost over the estimated life of the system, including intercepting sewers,
outfall sewers, collection lines, pumping, power and other equipment, and their
appurtenances and excluding services lines. Includes extensions, improvements,
additions, alterations, or any remodeling thereof, elements essential to
provide a reliable recycled supply such as standby treatment units and clear
well facilities, and any works, including the land and sites that may be
acquired, that will be an integral part of the treatment process or is used for
ultimate disposal of residues resulting from such treatment. (Ord. 212, 8-3-
1999; amd. Ord. 242, 10-7-2003; Ord. 252, 9-6-2005)
6-3B-3: QUALIFIED MAINTENANCE MANAGER AND CERTIFIED FACILITY OPERATOR:
   A.   Qualified Maintenance Manager: There is hereby created the position of
qualified maintenance manager who shall be appointed by the board of trustees
and shall be paid such remuneration for the performance of his duties as the
board may fix from time to time. (Ord. 212, 8-3-1999)
      1.   The duties of the qualified maintenance manager, hereinafter
referred to as QMM, shall consist of the following:
         a.   The QMM shall be responsible for the management of the wastewater
system and all of the property appertaining thereto and shall see that such
system is kept in good working order and repair.
         b.   The QMM shall ensure proper compliance with all local, state and
federal regulations for collection, treatment and discharge of wastewater.
         c.   The QMM shall designate the location of each new connection to
the wastewater system and keep adequate records of the location of all
connections and the general plans of the system.
         d.   The QMM shall make recommendations to the board for improvements,
additions, and repairs to the wastewater system and provide recommendations for
the annual budgeting of funds for the operation and maintenance of the sewage
works.
         e.   The QMM shall perform all other duties in connection with the
wastewater system as may be required of him by the board. (Ord. 212, 8-3-1999;
amd. Ord. 252, 9-6-2005)
   B.   Certified Facility Operator: There is hereby created the position of
certified facility operator who shall be appointed by the board of trustees and
shall be paid such remuneration for the performance of his duties as the board
may fix from time to time.
      1.   The certified facility operator shall be trained and licensed by the
appropriate state or federal entities as required for the performance of those
duties as set forth in sections
6-3B-10 through
6-3B-14 of this article. (Ord. 252, 9-6-2005)
6-3B-4: INDIVIDUAL WASTEWATER DISPOSAL SYSTEMS:
   A.   Prohibited; Exception: Except as set forth in this Section, it shall be
unlawful for any person to construct or maintain a privy vault or receptacle
for wastewater disposal or similar private device within the limits of the Town
and it shall also be unlawful for any person to place, deposit or permit to be
deposited in any unsanitary manner on public or private property within the
Town, or in any area under the jurisdiction of the Town, any human or animal
excrement, garbage, or other objectionable waste.
   B.   Private System Required: Where a landowner cannot connect or is not
able to connect to the Town wastewater system due to the fact that the owner's
property is not located within one hundred feet (100') of a connection line,
the owner shall be required to connect the improvements located upon the
property to an individual wastewater disposal system in compliance with the
following provisions.
   C.   Permit Required; Fee: Before the commencement of construction of a
private disposal system, the owner shall first obtain a written permit signed
by the Qualified Maintenance Manager. The application for such a permit shall
be made on a form furnished by the Town which the applicant shall supplement by
any plans, specifications and other information as may deemed necessary by the
QMM. A permit and inspection fee of fifty dollars ($50.00) shall be paid to the
Town at the time the application is filed by the owner.
   D.   Inspection: A permit for an individual wastewater disposal system shall
not become effective until the installation is completed to the satisfaction of
the QMM. The QMM shall be allowed to inspect the work at any stage of
construction, and in any event, the applicant for the permit shall notify the
QMM when the work is ready for final inspection and before any underground
portions of the work are covered. The inspection shall be made within forty
eight (48) hours of the receipt of notice by the QMM.
   E.   Construction Specifications: The type, capacities, location and layout
of an individual wastewater disposal system shall comply with all
recommendations and requirements of the State Department of Health.
   F.   Connection To The Town Wastewater System: At such time as a connection
line becomes available to a property served by an individual wastewater
disposal system, as provided in Section
6-3B-6 of this Article, a direct connection shall be made to the connection
line in compliance with this Chapter, and any septic tanks, cesspools and
similar private disposal facilities shall be abandoned and will be filled with
permitted material. (Ord. 212, 8-3-1999)
6-3B-5: WASTEWATER SERVICE:
   A.   Application For Service: Any person desiring to connect a service line
to the wastewater treatment system of the Town, or to add fixtures to an
existing connection, shall make application to the QMM for wastewater service.
The application for service shall be supplemented by any plans, specifications
or other information deemed necessary by the QMM to determine compliance with
all regulations or rules concerning the wastewater system. The QMM shall
endorse his approval or disapproval of the application as complying or failing
to comply with all regulations or rules concerning the wastewater system of the
Town. Upon approval by the QMM of such application, such user receiving
wastewater service shall pay therefor in accordance with the applicable rates,
rules and regulations.
   B.   Service Outside Town; Policy: The policy of the Town relating to the
furnishing of wastewater treatment service to users located outside the
boundaries of the Town requires agreement to annex to the Town prior to
discharge of water into the Town's wastewater system. The Town expressly
reserves the right, as may be limited by State or Federal law, to impose such
conditions as it may see fit relative to furnishing such service, and may
refuse such service in its discretion. Any deviation to this policy requires
approval by the Board of Trustees.
   C.   Excavations: All excavations for installation or repair of wastewater
lines shall be adequately guarded with barricades and lights and meet all
applicable safety standards so as to protect the public from hazard. Streets,
sidewalks, parkways and other public property disturbed in the course of work
shall be restored in a manner satisfactory to the Town. (Ord. 212, 8-3-1999)
6-3B-6: CONNECTION AND INSTALLATION OF SYSTEM:
   A.   Connection Required: The owner of any house, building, or property used
for human occupancy, employment, recreation or other purposes, situated within
the Town and abutting on any street, alley or right of way in which there is
now located or may in the future be located a collection line of the town, is
hereby required at such owner's expense to install suitable toilet facilities
therein and to connect such facilities directly with the proper collection line
in accordance with the provisions of this chapter within ninety (90) days after
official notice to do so; provided, that said collection line is within one
hundred feet (100') of the property line. Under unusual circumstances such as
unique topographical characteristics, the board of trustees, at its total
discretion and with health department approval, may waive the connection
requirement. (Ord. 212, 8-3-1999)
   B.   Connection Or Disconnection; Permit: The town shall issue a permit for
each connection or disconnection made to or from the wastewater treatment
system of the town. Such permit will be required for all new connections,
existing connections where additional fixtures are to be installed, and for
disconnections. Permits for connections or disconnections shall be issued only
to the property owner or applicant, or his or her designated authorized agent.
All such connections or disconnections shall be the actual and financial
responsibility of the owner or applicant. As part of the permitting process,
the owner or applicant shall provide to the town clerk or supervisor the name
and address of the person or entity qualified (together with written evidence
of such qualifications) to connect or disconnect the wastewater line and
attachment, and shall further provide proof of liability insurance sufficient
to cover any damage caused to town property during the installation connection
or disconnection process. All such connection or disconnection work shall be
made under the direct supervision of the water maintenance supervisor and no
connection or disconnection shall be covered until the work has been inspected
and approved in writing by the supervisor. Further, should town personnel, or
agents, be required to make the actual tap or connection, due to the special
tool or tools maintained by the town, the connection/disconnection fee shall be
one hundred fifty dollars ($150.00). The town's assistance in the connection/
disconnection shall not negate the earthwork obligations of the owner or
applicant. (Ord. 260, 12-5-2006, eff. 1-1-2007)
   C.   Unauthorized Connections Prohibited: It shall be a violation of these
rules and regulations for any unauthorized person to uncover, enter, insert
equipment, make any connections with or openings into, use, alter, or disturb
any collection line or appurtenance thereof, without first obtaining a permit
to connect from the town and such connections shall be made in compliance with
building and plumbing codes, town collection system standards and other
applicable rules and regulations of the town.
   D.   Connection To System; Inspection By Town: The applicant for the
wastewater service permit shall notify the QMM when the service line is ready
for inspection and connection to the collection line. The connection and
testing required by the town shall be made under the supervision of the QMM.
The town shall not be subjected to any liability for any deficiency or defect
which is not discovered by inspection nor shall the owner or developer of such
property be absolved from liability for such deficiency or defect and any
resulting damage or from responsibility to correct such deficiency or defect.
   E.   Collection Lines; Manner Of Extension: Collection lines to collect and
intercept wastewater from and throughout areas or additions shall be extended
by the owner of the premises to be served by such lines from the existing
collection line to the farthest point or points upgrade of such property. If
the QMM determines that extension of collection lines to the farthest point or
points upgrade is not necessary for efficient expansion of the wastewater
treatment system, the QMM may waive the requirement of such extension. In any
event, collection lines shall be extended by the owner of the property to be
served by such lines from the existing collection line to a point which permits
the shortest possible service line between the collection line and the property
line of the premises served thereby. Thereafter the collection lines shall be
extended to adjoining property in compliance with the latest edition of the
town's regulations and specifications. Extensions shall not be made for remote
or isolated services unless the applicant requesting such service shall provide
for the cost of such extension to the point of service and such extension is
approved by the board.
   F.   Wastewater Lines; Compliance With Subdivision And Other Land Use
Requirements: No wastewater lines shall be laid or placed in any proposed
addition or subdivision in the town until said proposed addition is platted and
approved by the board in accordance with the town subdivision regulations.
Further, any proposed extension of service to platted but undeveloped property
within the town shall be governed by applicable town ordinance.
   G.   Service Lines; Separate For Each Building; Exceptions: A separate and
independent service line shall be provided for every building. However, where
one building stands at the rear of another on an interior lot which cannot be
subdivided, and no service line is available nor can be constructed to the rear
building through an adjoining alley, court, yard, or driveway, the service line
of the front building may be extended to the rear building and the whole
considered as one service. Multi-family or commercial or industrial complexes
having more than one building on a single platted lot may have the individual
buildings connected to a single common service line, unless and until such lot
is resubdivided or the buildings otherwise become separately owned, in which
case independent connections shall be made. Waiver of this requirement for a
separate and independent service line may be granted by the board upon
resubdivision or creation of separate ownership of individual buildings on a
single lot with existing multi-family or commercial, but not industrial
complexes. Such a waiver shall be granted upon showing that the service lines
owned in common will be maintained by an entity of the owners of the separate
buildings. By regulation, the board may provide for additional requirements to
assure proper maintenance and repair of the common service lines, and, if
necessary, monitoring of effluent quality or quantity. The town does not assume
any obligation nor acquire any liability for damage to the connecting property
or any portion thereof caused by or resulting from any such connection to the
wastewater system as aforementioned. Similarly, the allowance of a single
service line will not excuse each residence or user from paying the costs and
rates set forth herein.
   H.   Service Line; Construction To Conform To Rules And Regulations: The
size, slope, alignment, and materials of construction of a service line, and
the methods to be used in excavating, placing of the pipe, joining, testing and
backfilling the trench, shall all conform to the requirements of applicable
town building and plumbing codes as well as other applicable rules and
regulations of the town pertaining to its wastewater system.
   I.   Service Line; Use Of Gravity Flow: Whenever possible, the service line
shall be brought from the building to an elevation below the basement floor. In
all buildings in which any building drain is too low to permit gravity flow to
the collection line, wastewater carried by such building drain shall be lifted
by means approved by the QMM and the installation shall be made in accordance
with the requirement of the town at the owner's expense, including the
maintenance thereof.
   J.   Service Line; Maintenance Of:
      1.   The owner of any premises connected to the town's wastewater
treatment system shall be responsible for the maintenance of the service line
and appurtenances thereto, from and including the connection to the collection
line to the premises served. The owner shall keep such line in good condition
and shall replace, at his expense, any portions thereof which, in the opinion
of the QMM, have become so damaged or disintegrated as to be unfit for further
use or permit excessive infiltration of groundwater or exfiltration of
wastewater. The owner must secure all required permits for construction
purposes and shall be responsible for returning the public right of way and the
street to acceptable town standards.
      2.   In the event that more than one property is connected to a single
service line, the owners of the respective premises shall be jointly and
severally responsible for the maintenance and repair requirements imposed by
this chapter.
      3.   Prior to repair or alteration of the service line, a permit must be
obtained from the town. A permit fee of fifty dollars ($50.00) shall be imposed
to cover the costs of the inspection. The inspection shall assure that rules
applying to the wastewater system are met. The town shall not be subjected to
any liability for any deficiency in the repair or alteration of such premises,
and shall be absolved from liability for such deficiency or defect and any
resulting damage or from responsibility to correct such deficiency or defect.
   K.   Existing Lines; Conditions For Use: Old wastewater lines may be used in
connection with new buildings only when they are found, on examination by the
QMM, to meet all requirements of this chapter and to be compatible with the
proposed use. If found unacceptable for future use, the owner shall be required
to excavate the line at the point of connection to the collection line and cap
the connection as required by the town standards. (Ord. 212, 8-3-1999)
   L.   Construction Requirements For Commencement And Completion: Construction
of a building or facility to be served by a wastewater connection shall be
commenced within one year from the date of the issuance of the permit as set
forth herein, and such construction shall be pursued to completion without
suspension or abandonment. Failure to comply with the above regulations may
result in cancellation of the permit in which event any fees or charges paid by
the owner or his or her agent shall be forfeited and be deemed nonrefundable.
(Ord. 220, 4-4-2000)
   M.   Fixture Unit Equivalents: Fixture unit equivalents shall be calculated
using the following schedule and shall apply to "stubbed in" or "roughed in"
fixture traps as well as those fixtures being installed:
Kind Of Fixture Trap Arm Equivalents
Kind Of Fixture                                         Trap Arm    Equivalents
Bathtubs                                                11/2 inches 2
Bidets                                                  11/2 inches 2
Clothes washers                                         11/2 inches 2
Dental unit or cuspidors                                11/2 inches 1
Dishwashers (residential)                               11/2 inches 2
Drinking fountains                                      11/4 inches 1
Floor drains                                            2 inches     
Interceptors for grease, oil, solids, etc.              2 inches    3
Interceptors for sand, auto wash, etc.                  3 inches    6
Laundry tubs                                            11/2 inches 2
Receptors (floor sinks), indirect waste receptors for   11/2 inches 3
refrigerators, coffee urns, water stations, etc.
Showers, gang (per shower head)                         2 inches    1
Showers, single stall                                   2 inches    2
Sinks, bar, commercial                                  11/2 inches 2
Sinks, bar, private                                     11/2 inches 1
Sinks, commercial or industrial schools, etc.,          11/2 inches 3
including dishwashers, wash up sinks and wash fountains
Sinks, double (residential kitchen)                     11/2 inches 2
Sinks, flushing rim, clinic                             3 inches    6
Sinks, service                                          2 inches    3
Urinals, pedestal                                       3 inches    6
Urinals, stall                                          2 inches    2
Urinals, trough                                         11/2 inches 3
Washbasins, (lavatories) single                         11/4 inches 1
Washbasins, in sets                                     11/2 inches 2
Water closet, flush valve type                          3 inches    6
Water closet, tank type                                 3 inches    4
 
   N.   Disconnection; Fee: In the event that a user desires to disconnect his
premises from the wastewater system of the town, and the user is allowed to do
so without violation of any of the provisions set forth herein, the user shall
not be permitted to take up that portion of the service line between the
collection line and the property line of the premises, but at his expense the
service line shall be capped at said property line and the service line shall
be removed from the property line to the structure, except as required by
subsection K of this section. New service lines to replace existing service
lines shall not be approved by the town until old service lines are dug up and
properly capped. Such cap shall be sufficiently tight to prevent the escape of
wastewater gas or the infiltration of water. A disconnection fee of one hundred
dollars ($100.00) shall also be charged to the owner to cover the
administrative and inspection costs.
   O.   Surface Runoff: No user or other person shall make a connection of roof
downspouts, exterior foundation drains, areaway drains or other sources of
surface runoff or groundwater to a building sewer or building drain which in
turn is connected directly or indirectly to a collection line. (Ord. 212, 8-3-
1999)
   P.   Use Of Wastewater System: Upon being connected to the town wastewater
system, every connected user shall use the wastewater system as to all domestic
and business uses. There shall be no dumping or drainage of raw sewage, clothes
washing water, business water use, etc., onto the ground or any other place
other than into the pipes as connected to the town wastewater system. (Ord.
297, 2-11-2014)
6-3B-7: COSTS AND CHARGES:
   A.   Wastewater Facilities; Allocation Of Cost: Except as otherwise provided
herein, a property owner or developer shall be responsible for the costs and
construction of all wastewater facilities and the appurtenances thereto in and
through his property or development upon approval of the plans and
specifications by the town. The town's subdivision regulations and other
relevant land use regulations shall be followed when applicable. The town shall
inspect and approve the actual construction of wastewater facilities, prior to
connection to the town wastewater system. The construction of wastewater
facilities shall include the following:
      1.   The town may require the owner or developer to construct a
collection line larger than that required for his needs for the service of
lands adjacent to his property or development, in which case the town may enter
into a cost recovery agreement with the owner or developer to collect a pro
rata share of the costs of such construction from the owner of the adjacent
lands at the time of their connection to the system and refund such costs to
the owner or developer.
      2.   When an owner or developer finds it necessary to construct
wastewater facilities through or adjacent to nonserviced or undeveloped lands,
the owner or developer shall pay the entire cost of such facilities. However,
the town may agree in writing with the owner or developer to collect a pro rata
share of the costs from the owner of property served by facilities at the time
of such connection to the wastewater system and shall refund such cost to the
owner or developer.
      3.   In the event that pump stations and force mains are required, the
cost of constructing said stations and mains shall be the responsibility of the
owner of property served thereby. Where it appears that more area or lands may
be served by the pump station and force mains, the town may require a larger
capacity than necessary to serve the initial development. Where such larger
capacity is required, the town may enter into a cost recovery agreement with
the owner or developer to collect a pro rata share of the costs from adjacent
lands at the time of their connection and refund such costs to the owner or
developer.
      4.   In those instances where pump stations and force mains are required,
the wastewater system shall be designed where possible so as to permit an
eventual connection into a gravity system with a minimum of expense. Where
practical, easements shall be provided and lines constructed to tie into the
gravity system. The town may require deposits from the property owners
requiring said force system, where deemed necessary, to pay for the eventual
construction of gravity lines.
      5.   All costs incidental to or resulting from the procurement by the
town of any required easement or right of way, whether obtained by dedication,
contract, condemnation or otherwise, shall be borne by the owner or developer,
unless this requirement is waived by the town board.
      6.   A property owner or developer, at the discretion of the board, may
be responsible for the cost of construction of relief sewers and necessary
appurtenances when the proposed flow demand exceeds existing sewer system
capacity. The town may enter into a cost recovery agreement with the owner or
developer should a relief sewer be required.
   B.   Installation Cost: All costs and expenses incidental to the
installation and connection of service lines from the collection line to the
premises shall be borne by the owner of such premises. The owner shall
indemnify the town for any loss or damage to the town that may directly or
indirectly be occasioned by the installation of such service line.
   C.   Connection Charge: In each lot, subdivision or addition, located inside
the town limits, for which a request for wastewater connection or addition to
the wastewater treatment system of the town shall be made, there is and shall
be a connection charge imposed against the requesting owner. Said connection
charge shall consist of a permit charge and a system development charge, and
may also include cost recovery agreement charges where applicable. Such charges
shall also apply to users who, upon disconnection, later decide to reestablish
the connection to the town system.
   D.   Permit Charge: A permit charge shall be assessed for each connection to
or disconnection from the wastewater treatment system of the town to defray the
costs of administration and inspection. Such charge shall be assessed and
collected prior to the issuance of a permit to connect or a disconnection
permit. For each one-family dwelling or mobile home, the amount of the permit
charge shall be twenty dollars ($20.00). For each commercial or industrial
premises and for each two- family dwelling or multiple dwelling, the amount of
the permit charge shall be twenty dollars ($20.00) for the first fifteen (15)
fixture unit equivalents, and twenty dollars ($20.00) for each additional
fifteen (15) fixture unit equivalents or portions thereof. (Ord. 212, 8-3-1999)
   E.   System Development Charge: A system development charge, formerly known
as a tap fee, in the amount of three thousand five hundred dollars ($3,500.00)
shall be assessed for each connection to the wastewater system of the town to
compensate the town for administrative costs and work and to partially defray
the cost of capital improvement of such system. Such charge shall be collected
at the time the application for wastewater service is filed and such fee shall
be for each new connection into the collection line and shall be charged for
all new users or connections regardless of whether the new user or connection
is tapping into an exiting tap or directly into the wastewater system. The
system development charge may be increased at the discretion of the town board.
Of the amount paid to the town clerk for the system development charge, twenty
percent (20%) of the charge shall be applied towards the administrative cost
and work incurred by the town in processing the application, and the remaining
eighty percent (80%) of the charge shall be applied towards the impact that the
application and use will have on the town wastewater system. Any permit issued
hereunder shall retain the stated system development charge for up to one year
from the date of issuance. Should the permittee fail to connect to the town
wastewater system within one year from the issuance of the permit, then prior
to making the connection to the town wastewater system the permittee shall pay
any increase in the system development charge that may have been implemented by
the board of trustees since the issuance of the permit. Further, should the
permittee fail to connect to the town wastewater system within two (2) years
from the date of the issuance of the permit, then the permit shall expire and
become null and void. In the event that the connection is not made within a
period of two (2) years from the date of the issuance of the permit, the system
development charge shall be forfeited and nonrefundable unless the permittee
can show to the board of trustees' satisfaction, by majority vote, that special
circumstances beyond the permittee's control prevented the connection from
occurring in a timely manner. (Ord. 230, 2-5-2002)
      1.   Multi-Dwelling Units: Any owner or developer seeking to construct a
multi-dwelling unit, as approved by the town through agreement as required in
this code, shall be required to pay a system development charge, relative to
the town wastewater system, in the amount of three thousand five hundred
dollars ($3,500.00), plus the sum of five hundred dollars ($500.00) per planned
unit. (Ord. 260, 12-5-2006, eff. 1-1-2007)
      2.   Six Inch Wastewater Connection Or Tap: Effective January 1, 2013,
the system development charge for a wastewater pipe six inches (6") in
diameter, shall be seven thousand nine hundred dollars ($7,900.00). Any
requested wastewater connection exceeding six inches (6") in diameter shall be
determined by the board, and its engineer, after considering all relevant
criteria and circumstances.
   F.   Rates And Charges: Effective January 1, 2013, the base rate for
residential single-family properties shall be a flat twenty six dollars sixty
cents ($26.60) per month. The rates to be assessed to commercial and multi-
family users shall be based upon the actual, average usage by the commercial or
multi-family user as compared to a single-family residence. The monthly rate to
be applied to each use shall be determined by multiplying the base rate of
twenty six dollars sixty cents ($26.60) by the designated equivalent to a
single-family residence (EQR) as follows: (Ord. 291, 12-11-2012)
Type Of Business EQR Factor
Type Of Business                 EQR Factor
Beauty shops                     2.0 for first 4 chairs
                                 0.2 for each additional chair
Laundromats                      0.2 per each washer
Light industry                   0.9 for each set of 10 employees
Locker plants                    0.5 per 1,000 square feet
Motels                           1.0 per each manager unit and 0.2 for each bed
Nursing homes                    0.4 per bed
Restaurants                      0.2 for the first 20 seats
                                 1.2 for each additional set of 20 seats
Schools (with gym and cafeteria) 0.42 for each set of 10 students and teachers
                                 1.0 for the first gasoline or diesel pump
Service stations                 0.30 for each additional gasoline or diesel
                                 pump
 
(Ord. 225, 1-3-2001)
   G.   Delinquent Charges: Monthly charges shall commence and accrue
immediately upon occupation of the subject property. Charges shall be billed
monthly on or about the first day of each month. Payment received on or before
the fifteenth day of the same month billed shall be deemed to have been paid by
the scheduled due date. Payments received six (6) days after the scheduled due
date of the month shall be considered to be delinquent and shall be subject to
a delinquency charge of fifteen dollars ($15.00) or five percent (5%) of the
principal amount owed whichever is greater beginning upon the delinquent date
and continuing up to, but not exceeding, four (4) additional months. (Ord. 217,
12-7-1999, eff. 1-1-2000)
   H.   Changes In Rates: The board may, in its discretion, periodically change
the rate schedule to reflect the total costs to the town of the operation and
maintenance of the wastewater system. In the absence of direction action on the
part of the board in any particular year, those rates referred to in subsection
F of this section, shall be adjusted by the amount of the previous year's
Denver-Boulder consumer price index with no further action of the board of
trustees. The annual adjustment shall take place on January 1, 2006, and then
shall continue to take place, thereafter, in the January billing. The adjusted
rate increase, upon computation by the town, shall be placed in this section,
for review by the town citizens and other interested persons. (Ord. 259, 9-12-
2006)
6-3B-8: PROHIBITIONS AND LIMITATIONS ON WASTEWATER DISCHARGE:
   A.   Wastewater Discharge; Treatment Required: It shall be unlawful for any
person to discharge into any natural waterway or any surface drainage within
the town, or in any area under the jurisdiction of the town, any wastewater
unless suitable treatment of such wastewater has been provided in accordance
with the provisions of these rules and regulations and applicable county, state
or federal regulations.
   B.   Prohibited Wastes: It shall be a violation of these rules and
regulations and unlawful under federal law for any person to discharge or
deposit or cause or allow to be discharged or deposited into the wastewater
treatment facility of the town any waste or wastewater which contains the
following:
      1.   Individual wastewater disposal system wastes from septic tanks,
cesspools, holding tanks, privy vaults, sand and grease traps or similar
devices.
      2.   Stormwater drainage from ground, surface, roof headers, catch
basins, unroofed area drains (e.g., commercial car washing facilities) or any
other source.
      3.   Other water, including, but not limited to, underground drains, sump
pump discharges, natural springs, seeps, wetlands outflows and water
accumulated in excavations or any other water associated with construction.
      4.   Inert suspended solids or other inert particulate matter, such as,
but not limited to, fuller's earth, lime slurries, and paint residues,
resulting in wastewater with settleable solids concentration greater than
fifteen milliliters per liter (15 ml/l).
      5.   Unusual concentrations of dissolved solids that may, alone or in
conjunction with discharges from other users, cause the POTW effluent to exceed
water quality criteria for the pollutant in question.
      6.   Oil and grease of the following concentrations, sources and nature:
         a.   Wastewater containing total grease and oil in excess of one
hundred milligrams per liter (100 mg/l) concentration as measured by Soxhlet
extraction set forth in the most recent edition of "Standard Methods For The
Examination Of Water And Wastewater" or "U.S. EPA Manual Of Methods For
Chemical Analysis Of Water And Wastes".
         b.   Wastewater containing more than twenty five milligrams per liter
(25 mg/l) petroleum, as measured as hydrocarbons by Soxhlet extraction, or
other approved method set out in "Standard Methods For The Examination Of Water
And Wastewater". Evidence of oil or grease in wastewater shall be based upon
instantaneous or "grab" samples.
      7.   Explosive mixtures consisting of liquids, solids or gases which by
reason of their nature or quantity are, or may be, sufficient either alone or
by interaction with other substances to cause fire or explosion or be injurious
in any other way to the wastewater treatment system or to the operation of the
system. At no time shall two (2) successive readings on an explosive hazard
meter at the point of discharge into the wastewater system be more than five
percent (5%) nor may any single reading be over ten percent (10%) of the lower
explosive limit (LEL) of the meter. Prohibited materials include, but are not
limited to: gasoline, kerosene, naphtha, benzene, toluene, xylene, ethers,
alcohols, ketones, aldehydes, peroxides, chlorates, perchlorates, bromates,
carbides, hydrides, and sulfides. Waste streams at the point of discharge are
prohibited if they have a closed cup flashpoint of less than sixty degrees
centigrade (60°C) (140°F) using test methods specified in 40 CFR part 261.21.
      8.   Noxious material consisting of noxious or malodorous solids, liquids
or gases, which, either singly or by interaction with other wastes, are capable
of creating a public nuisance or hazard to life, or are or may be sufficient to
prevent entry into any portion of the wastewater system for its maintenance and
repair.
      9.   Improperly shredded garbage that has not been ground or comminuted
to such a degree that all particles will be carried freely in suspension under
flow conditions normally prevailing in the wastewater system to which the user
is connected. At all times, no particle shall be greater than one-half inch (1/
2") in any direction.
      10.   Radioactive wastes or isotopes of such a half-life or concentration
that they do not meet regulations set forth by the Colorado Department of
Health, in the latest edition of Rules and Regulations Pertaining to
Radiological Control.
      11.   Solid, viscous, or liquid wastes which allow or may cause
obstruction to the flow in a collection line or otherwise interfere with the
proper operation of the wastewater treatment system. Prohibited materials
include, but are not limited to: grease, uncomminuted garbage, animal guts or
tissues, paunch manure, bones, hair, hides or fleshings, entrails, whole blood,
feathers, ashes, cinders, sand, spent lime, stone or marble dust, metal, glass,
straw, shavings, grass clippings, rags, spent grains, spent hops, wastepaper,
wood, plastic, tar, asphalt residues, residues from refining or processing fuel
or lubrication oil and similar substances.
      12.   Toxic substances in amounts exceeding standards promulgated by the
Administrator of the United States Environmental Protection Agency pursuant to
section 307(a) of the act, and chemical elements or compounds, phenols or other
taste- or odor-producing substances, or any other substances, including metals
which are not susceptible to treatment or which may interfere with the
biological processes or efficiency of the treatment system or which will be
transmitted through the stem to receiving water, as may be measured by failure
of a biomonitoring toxicity test.
      13.   Substances which are not amenable to treatment of prescribed
reduction by the treatment process employed by the wastewater department, or
are amenable to such a limited degree of reduction that a discharge of such
wastewater would result in an interference with the wastewater treatment works
or pass through the treatment facilities such that the effluent discharge from
the treatment works does not meet requirements of state, federal and other
agencies having jurisdiction over discharge or application to receiving waters
and/or lands.
      14.   Waste with color not removable by the treatment process.
      15.   Corrosive wastes which will cause corrosion, deterioration or
interference of the wastewater system.
      16.   All wastewater discharged into the wastewater system must have an
instantaneous pH value in the range of five and one- half (5.5) to ten (10)
standard units.
         a.   A more stringent range of acceptable wastewater effluent pH
identified in applicable National Categorical Pretreatment Standards shall
supersede the range noted herein.
         b.   Where a continuous pH recording monitor has been installed by the
user and approved by the QMM, pH compliance with these applicable sections may
also be determined by records inspection indicating effluent pH within the
applicable range for a period exceeding ninety percent (90%) of the user's
operating day.
      17.   Spent process chemicals, solutions or materials, hazardous waste as
defined by the Federal Resource Conservation and Recovery Act, and other
materials normally used in industrial/commercial operations unless specifically
authorized in writing by the QMM and after suitable treatment as approved by
the QMM has been effected.
      18.   Hospital wastes. Hospitals, clinics, offices of medical doctors,
and convalescent homes shall not dispose of laboratory pathological wastes,
surgical operating room wastes or delivery room wastes by discharge through or
to the wastewater system.
      19.   Biocides as determined by the QMM in concentrations exceeding 0.02
mg/l unless approved in writing by the QMM.
      20.   Any pollutant, including oxygen demanding pollutants or slug
concentrations (e.g., BOD) released in a discharge at a flow rate and/or
pollutant concentration which will cause interference with the POTW.
      21.   Heat in amounts which will inhibit biological activity in the POTW
resulting in interference but in no case heat in such quantities that the
temperature at the POTW treatment plant exceeds forty degrees centigrade (40°C)
(105°F).
      22.   Any trucked or hauled pollutants, except at discharge points
designated by the POTW.
      23.   Pollutants which result in the presence of toxic gases, vapors, or
fumes within the POTW in a quantity that may cause acute worker health and
safety problems.
   C.   Wastewater Discharge; Limitations: It shall be unlawful for any person
to discharge or deposit or cause or allow to be discharged or deposited into
the wastewater facilities of the town, any waste or wastewater which fails to
comply with the limitations imposed by this article.
   D.   Point Of Discharge; Limitations: It shall be unlawful for any person to
discharge any substance directly into a manhole or other opening in the
wastewater treatment system other than through an approved service line. Liquid
wastes from chemical toilets and trailers, campers or other recreational
vehicles which have been collected and/or held in tanks or other containers
shall not be discharged into the wastewater system.
   E.   Disposal; Limitations: It shall be unlawful for any person to dispose
of wastes into the wastewater system where such wastes have been collected and/
or held in a tank or other container and where such wastes fail to comply with
any limitation set out in this article. (Ord. 212, 8-3-1999)
6-3B-9: AUTHORITY OF INSPECTORS:
   A.   The QMM and other duly authorized employees or agents of the town
bearing proper credentials and identification shall be permitted, upon giving
reasonable notice to the owner thereof, to enter all properties for the
purposes of inspection, observation, measurement, sampling and testing in
accordance with the provisions of this code. The QMM and other duly authorized
employees, or agents of the town, shall confine their inspection, observation,
measurement, sampling, and testing to those matters which have a direct or
indirect impact or consequence to the town wastewater system or to the
waterways of this state.
   B.   The QMM and other duly authorized employees or agents of the town
bearing proper credentials and identification shall be permitted to enter all
private properties through which the town holds a duly negotiated easement for
the purposes of, but not limited to, inspection, observation, measurement,
sampling, repair and maintenance of any portion of the wastewater system lying
within the easement. All entry and subsequent work, if any, on the easement
shall be done in full accordance with the terms of the duly negotiated easement
pertaining to the private property involved. (Ord. 212, 8-3-1999)
6-3B-10: WASTEWATER DISCHARGE LIMITATIONS:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person to discharge or deposit or cause or
allow to be discharged or deposited, any waste or wastewater which fails to
comply with the limitations imposed by this article.
   B.   Consistent with the provision of the act, no discharger into the
wastewater treatment system shall augment his use of process water or otherwise
dilute his discharge as a partial or complete substitute for adequate treatment
to achieve compliance with these standards.
   C.   As used in this article, the following terms shall have the meanings
designated herein:
      DISCHARGE RATE: That volume of effluent from the user which has been
determined by the town's certified facility operator to be representative of
process effluent from that user.
      TOTAL METAL: The sum of the concentrations of copper (Cu), nickel (Ni),
total chromium (Cr), and zinc (Zn).
   D.   For users with a discharge rate of less than ten thousand (10,000)
gallons per average operating day, the following limitation shall apply, except
that at no time shall the maximum concentration exceed two (2) times the
maximum average concentration per operating day:
 
Maximum Average Concentration Pollutant
Property                                Pollutant Or  Per Operating Day
(Milligrams/Liter)
CN (Cyanide), amenable to chlorination  2.0
Cr-(6) (Hexavalent Chromium)            0.25
Pb (Lead)                               0.8
Cd (Cadmium)                            1.0
BOD                                     200
TSS                                     200
 
   E.   For users with a discharge rate of greater than ten thousand (10,000)
gallons per average operating day, the following limitations shall apply,
except that at no time shall the maximum concentration exceed two (2) times the
maximum average concentration per operating day:
Maximum Average Concentration Pollutant Property
                                                 Pollutant Or Per Operating Day
(Milligrams/Liter)
Maximum Average Concentration Pollutant Property
                                                 Pollutant Or Per Operating Day
(Milligrams/Liter)
CN (Cyanide), amenable to chlorination           2.0
CN (Cyanide), total                              0.64
Cr-(6) (Hexavalent Chromium)                     0.25
Cu (Copper)                                      4.60
Ni (Nickel)                                      3.60
Cr (Chromate), total                             4.20
Zn (Zinc)                                        3.40
Pb (Lead)                                        0.8
Cd (Cadmium)                                     1.0
Total metal                                      7.5
BOD                                              200
TSS                                              200
 
   F.   For all users, the following maximum concentrations shall apply:
Maximum Toxicant   Concentration
(Milligrams/Liter) At Any Time
Maximum Toxicant                                        Concentration
(Milligrams/Liter)                                      At Any Time
Arsenic                                                 0.1
Barium                                                  5.0
Beryllium                                               1.0
Boron                                                   1.0
Chlorinated hydrocarbons including, but not limited to, 0.02
pesticides, herbicides, and algaecide
Cresols                                                 2.0
Fluorides                                               25.0
Formaldehyde                                            5.0
Manganese                                               1.0
Mercury                                                 0.05
Organic solvents                                        50.0
Phenols                                                 1.0
Selenium                                                2.0
 
   G.   Effluent limitations and pretreatment standards promulgated pursuant to
the act shall apply in any instance where they are more stringent than those in
this article. Subsequent limitations shall apply as promulgated in accordance
with the act. The town shall endeavor to give reasonable notice of the
applicability of such standards and limitations to users potentially affected
thereby. (Ord. 242, 10-7-2003)
6-3B-11: CONTROL OF PROHIBITED WASTES:
   A.   If wastewaters containing any substance described in this article are
discharged or proposed to be discharged into the wastewater system of the town
or to any wastewater system tributary thereto, the certified facility operator
may take any action necessary to:
      1.   Prohibit the discharge of such wastewater;
      2.   Require a discharger to demonstrate that in-plant modifications will
reduce or eliminate the discharge of such substances in conformity with this
article;
      3.   Require treatment, including storage facilities or flow equalization
necessary to reduce or eliminate the objectionable characteristics or substance
so that the discharge will not violate this article;
      4.   Require the person making, causing or allowing the discharge to pay
any additional cost or expense incurred by the town for handling and treating
excess loads imposed on the wastewater treatment system; or
      5.   Take such other or further remedial action as may be deemed to be
desirable or necessary to achieve the purposes of this article.
   B.   Any actual or threatened discharge of wastewater containing substances
limited or prohibited by this article into the wastewater treatment system of
the town which, by the determination of the certified facility operator,
presents an imminent or substantial endangerment to the health or welfare of
persons or to the environment, or which causes interference with the normal
operation of the wastewater treatment system, may be immediately halted or
eliminated by the certified facility operator. The certified facility operator
may halt or eliminate such discharges by means of any procedure or measure
authorized by this article for enforcement of discharge limitation and
prohibitions, or by means of physical disconnection from the wastewater
treatment system or other discontinuance of wastewater treatment service. Such
discharges may be halted or eliminated without regard to the compliance of the
discharge with other provisions of this article.
   C.   If the town is fined by the state or federal governments for any
violation of its CDPS permit or violation of water quality standards as the
result of a spill, intentional sludge discharge of a toxic pollutant, or
discharge of wastewater containing substances limited or prohibited by this
article into the wastewater treatment system of the town, then the fine,
including all of the town's legal, engineering, sampling, and analytical
testing cost and any other related costs shall be charged to the responsible
user.
   D.   Where pretreatment or equalization of wastewater flows prior to
discharge into any part of the wastewater treatment system is required, plans,
specifications, and other pertinent data or information relating to such
pretreatment or flow control facilities shall first be submitted to the
certified facility operator for review and approval. Such approval shall not
exempt the discharge of such facilities from compliance with any applicable
code, ordinance, rule, regulation or order of any governmental authority. Such
approval shall not be construed as or act as a guaranty or assurance that any
discharge is or will be in compliance with any applicable code, ordinance,
rule, regulations, or order of any governmental authority. Any subsequent
alterations or additions to such pretreatment or flow control facilities shall
not be made without due notice to and prior approval of the certified facility
operator.
   E.   If pretreatment or control of wastewater waste flow is required, such
facilities shall be maintained in good working order and operated as
efficiently as possible by the owner or operator at his own cost and expense,
subject to the requirements of this article and all other applicable codes,
ordinances, laws, rules, and regulations.
   F.   Whenever it shall be necessary for the purposes of this article, the
certified facility operator, upon the presentation of credentials, may enter
upon any property or premises at reasonable times, including at any time during
the operating day of the use, for the purposes of:
      1.   Copying any record required to be kept under the provisions of this
article;
      2.   Inspecting any monitoring equipment or method; and/or
      3.   Sampling any discharge of wastewater into the wastewater treatment
system.
The occupant of such property or premises shall render all proper assistance in
such activities as conducted by the certified facility operator.
   G.   Each industrial user shall provide adequate protection as approved by
the certified facility operator, from accidental discharge of prohibited
materials of other wastes regulated by this article. Facilities and procedures
to prevent accidental discharge of prohibited materials shall be provided and
maintained at the owner or operator's own cost. Detailed plans showing
facilities and operating procedures to prove this protection shall be submitted
to the certified facility operator for review, and shall be approved by him
before installation of the accidental discharge protection. Review and approval
of such plans and operating procedures shall not relieve the industrial user
from the responsibility to modify this facility as necessary to meet the
requirements of this article.
   H.   If a facility has an accidental prohibited discharge, the owner or user
of the facility responsible for such discharge shall immediately notify the
certified facility operator so that corrective action may be undertaken to
protect the wastewater treatment system. In addition, a written report
addressed to the certified facility operator detailing the date, time and cause
of the accidental discharge and corrective action taken to prevent future
discharges, shall be filed by the responsible person within five (5) days of
the occurrence of the noncomplying discharge. It shall be unlawful for any
person to fail to report any accidental discharge which violates the
prohibitions and limitations of this article. (Ord. 242, 10-7-2003)
6-3B-12: INDUSTRIAL WASTEWATER MONITORING AND REPORTING:
   A.   Every significant industrial user shall file an annual discharge
report. Unless otherwise required by the certified facility operator, discharge
reports shall be filed not later than thirty (30) days after the annual
anniversary date of the commencement of discharge to the town's system. The
certified facility operator may require any other industrial user discharging
or proposing to discharge into the wastewater treatment system to file such
periodic reports.
   B.   The discharge report shall indicate the current status of the user and
shall include, but, in the discretion of the certified facility operator, shall
not be limited to, nature or process, volume, rates of flow, mass emission
rate, production quantities, hours of operation, concentrations of controlled
substances or other information which relates to the generation of waste. Such
reports may also include the chemical constituents and quantity of liquid
material stored on site even though they are not normally discharged. In
addition to discharge reports, the certified facility operator may require
information in the form of self-monitoring reports of which the form, frequency
and contents shall be specified by the certified facility operator.
   C.   Every industrial and/or significant industrial user shall file an
amended discharge report two (2) weeks prior to any planned significant change
in operations, wastewater constituents or wastewater characteristics. If such
significant change occurs unknowingly or is unplanned, an amended discharge
report shall be filed within seven (7) days after such change becomes known. A
"significant change" shall mean a change which will be in effect for a period
of thirty (30) days or more and shall include, but is not limited to:
      1.   Change in number of shifts, an additional processing operation, any
new regulated substances used which may be discharged.
      2.   A twenty five percent (25%) increase or decrease in the wastewater
flow or production volume.
      3.   Any other change which may alter the average normal wastewater
characteristics by a factor of 1.5 or more.
   D.   All industrial or significant industrial users who discharge or propose
to discharge wastewaters to the wastewater treatment system shall maintain such
records of production and related factors, effluent flows and amounts or
concentrations of controlled substances as are necessary to demonstrate
compliance with the requirements of this article and any applicable state or
federal pretreatment standards or requirements.
   E.   Such records shall be made available upon request of the certified
facility operator. In addition, all industrial users who discharge or propose
to discharge wastewaters to the wastewater treatment system shall provide the
information requested by the certified facility operator on a wastewater
discharge questionnaire, which questionnaire shall be established and revised
by the certified facility operator from time to time as he or she deems to be
necessary.
   F.   Should the certified facility operator deem it necessary to fulfill the
purposes of this article, the owner or operator of any premises or facility
discharging industrial wastewater into the wastewater system shall install at
his own expense suitable monitoring equipment which isolates appropriate
wastewater discharges into the wastewater system and facilitates accurate
observation, sampling and measurement of appropriate discharges. Such equipment
shall be maintained in proper working order and kept safe and accessible at all
times.
   G.   Where practical, the monitoring equipment shall be located and
maintained on the industrial user's premises outside of the building. When such
a location would be impractical or cause undue hardship to the user, the
certified facility operator may allow such facility to be constructed in the
public street or easement area, with the approval of the agency having
jurisdiction over such street or easement, and located so that it will not be
obstructed by public utilities, landscaping or parked vehicles.
   H.   When more than one user is able to discharge into a common service
line, the certified facility operator may require installation of separate
monitoring equipment for each user. When there is a significant difference in
wastewater constituents and characteristics produced by different operations of
a single user, the certified facility operator may require that separate
monitoring facilities be installed for each separate discharge.
   I.   Whether constructed on public or private property, the monitoring
facilities shall be constructed in accordance with the certified facility
operator's requirements and all applicable construction standards and
specifications.
   J.   Compliance determinations with respect to this article prohibitions and
limitations may be made on the basis of either instantaneous "grab" samples or
composite samples of wastewater. Such samples shall be taken at a point or
points which the certified facility operator determines to be suitable for
obtaining a representative sample of the discharge. Composite samples may be
taken over a twenty four (24) hour period, or over a longer or shorter time
span, as determined by the certified facility operator to meet specific
circumstances.
   K.   Laboratory analysis of industrial wastewater samples shall be performed
in accordance with the current edition of "Standard Methods For Chemical
Analysis Of Water And Wastewater" published by the U.S. environmental
protection agency or the "Annual Book Of Standards, Part 23, Water, Atmospheric
Analysis", published by the American Society for Testing and Materials.
Analysis of those pollutants not covered by these publications shall be
performed in accordance with procedures approved by the certified facility
operator. The test results of laboratory analysis performed by the town in
accordance with this article shall be presumed to be correct unless shown
otherwise by competent evidence.
   L.   Sampling of industrial wastewater for the purpose of determining
compliance with respect to this article prohibitions and limitations shall be
performed by the town at such intervals as the certified facility operator may
designate. However, it is the goal of this article that the certified facility
operator conduct sampling or cause such sampling to be conducted for all major
contributing industries at least four (4) times per year. All sampling and
testing shall be at the expense of the user. The charges shall be itemized on
the user's billing statement. (Ord. 242, 10-7-2003)
6-3B-13: INDUSTRIAL DISCHARGE PERMIT SYSTEM:
   A.   All significant industrial users proposing to connect to or discharge
into any part of the wastewater treatment system shall obtain a discharge
permit therefor. All existing significant industrial users connected to or
discharging into any part of the wastewater system shall obtain a wastewater
discharge permit within sixty (60) days from and after the effective date of
the ordinance which created this article. A separate permit is required for
each facility on a separate platted lot with a separate service connection.
   B.   Users required to obtain a wastewater discharge permit shall complete
and file with the certified facility operator an application of the form
prescribed by him or her. In support of this application, the user shall be
required to submit the following information:
      1.   Name, address, and standard industrial code classification number of
the applicant.
      2.   Average daily discharge rate of wastewater.
      3.   Wastewater constituents and characteristics, including, but not
limited to, those set forth in this article as determined by an analytical
laboratory approved by the certified facility operator.
      4.   Time and duration of discharge.
      5.   Average and thirty (30) minute peak wastewater flow rates, including
daily, monthly and seasonal variations, if any.
      6.   Site plans, floor plans, mechanical and plumbing plans and details
to show all service lines and appurtenances by size, location, and elevation.
      7.   Description of activities, facilities, and plant processes on the
premises, including all materials and types of materials which are, or could
be, discharged into the wastewater system.
      8.   Each product produced by type, amount and rate of production.
      9.   Number and type of employees; and hours of work.
      10.   Any other information deemed by the certified facility operator to
be necessary to evaluate the permit application.
   C.   There shall be and there is hereby established a wastewater discharge
permit application charge for each permit application. Such charge shall be
payable by the applicant at the time the application is submitted. The amount
of the permit application charge shall be established by resolution of the
board of trustees.
   D.   The certified facility operator shall evaluate the data furnished by
the user and may require additional information. After evaluation and
acceptance of the data furnished, the certified facility operator may issue a
wastewater discharge permit subject to the terms and conditions provided
herein.
   E.   The certified facility operator shall issue a wastewater discharge
permit to the applicant if he or she finds that all of the following conditions
are met:
      1.   The proposed discharge of the applicant is in compliance with the
prohibitions and limitations of this article.
      2.   The proposed discharge of the applicant would permit the normal and
efficient operation of the wastewater treatment system.
      3.   The proposed discharge of the applicant would not result in a
violation by the town of the terms and conditions of its CDPS permit.
   F.   If the certified facility operator finds that the applicant has not met
the conditions of this article, the certified facility operator may issue a
wastewater discharge permit to the applicant if the applicant submits, and if
the certified facility operator approves, a schedule setting out the measures
to be taken by the applicant and the dates that such measures will be
implemented to ensure compliance with the provisions of this article.
   G.   In the event an application for a wastewater discharge permit is
denied, the certified facility operator shall notify the applicant in writing
of such denial. Such notification shall state the grounds for such denial with
that degree of specificity which will inform the applicant of the measures or
actions which must be taken by the applicant prior to the issuance of a permit.
   H.   Upon receipt of notification of denial of a permit application, the
applicant may request and shall be granted a hearing to be held by the board of
trustees. At such hearing the applicant shall have the burden of establishing
that the conditions set out in this article have been met and that a permit
should be issued.
   I.   The board of trustees may conduct the hearing and take the evidence or
may designate the Simla municipal court judge to:
      1.   Issue in the name of the board of trustees notices of hearings
requesting the attendance and testimony of witnesses and the production of
evidence relevant to any matter involved in such hearings.
      2.   Take the evidence.
      3.   Transmit a report of the evidence and hearing, including transcripts
and other evidence to the board of trustees together with recommendations for
action thereon.
      4.   Testimony taken at any public hearing shall be under oath and
recorded by machine. The transcript as recorded shall be made available to any
member of the public or any party to the hearing upon payment of the usual
charges therefor.
   J.   Upon review of the evidence by the board of trustees, the board of
trustees shall make written findings of fact. Thereupon the board of trustees
may issue an order directing the certified facility operator to issue a
wastewater discharge permit, or directing that such permit shall not be issued,
or give such other or further orders and directives as are necessary and
appropriate.
   K.   Any party to the hearing aggrieved or adversely affected by an order of
the board of trustees may appeal such order to the district court in and for
the county of Elbert, pursuant to rule 106(a)(4) of the Colorado rules of civil
procedure.
   L.   Wastewater discharge permits shall be expressly subject to all
provisions of this article and all other regulations, user charges and fees
established by the town. The conditions of wastewater discharge permits shall
be uniformly enforced in accordance with this article and applicable state and
federal regulations. Permit conditions may include, but are not limited to, the
following:
      1.   The unit charge or schedule of user charges and fees for the
wastewater to be discharged to the system.
      2.   Reporting requirements to indicate chemicals purchased, used,
disposed, and method of disposal, including a description of and limitations
placed upon the discharge point.
      3.   Limits on rate, time, and characteristics, including average and
maximum wastewater constituents and characteristics of discharge or
requirements for flow regulations and equalization.
      4.   Requirements of installation of inspection and sampling facilities
and specifications for monitoring programs.
      5.   Requirements for maintaining and submitting technical reports and
plant records relating to wastewater discharges, and quantities or general
characteristics of wastewater tank contents.
      6.   Daily average and daily maximum discharge rates or other appropriate
conditions, when substances subject to limitation and prohibition are proposed
or present in the users' wastewater discharge.
      7.   Compliance schedules.
      8.   Other conditions to ensure compliance with this article.
      9.   Upon request by the certified facility operator, all records kept
pursuant to this article shall be submitted to him or her for review.
   M.   Grease, oil, sand, and/or other interceptors shall be provided when in
the opinion of the certified facility operator, they are necessary for the
proper handling of liquid wastes containing grease in excessive amounts, or any
inflammable wastes, sand, and other harmful ingredients, except, that such
interceptors shall not be required for private living quarter or dwelling
units. The following shall apply to such interceptors:
      1.   Grease and oil interceptors shall be constructed of impervious
materials capable of withstanding abrupt and extreme changes in temperature.
They shall be of substantial construction, watertight, and equipped with easily
removable covers which, when bolted in place shall be gastight and watertight.
All interceptors shall be of a type and capacity approved by the certified
facility operator and shall be located so as to readily and easily be
accessible for cleaning and inspection.
      2.   Where installed, all grease, oil, sand, and/or other interceptors
shall be maintained by the owner at his expense in continuously efficient
operation at all times.
   N.   In the event the type or volume of material from the property for which
a discharge permit was previously granted shall materially and substantially
change as determined by the certified facility operator, the person previously
granted such permit shall make a new application to the town, in the same
manner and form as originally made.
   O.   Permits shall be issued for a specified time period not to exceed three
(3) years. A permit may be issued for a period of less than one year, or may be
stated to expire on a specific date. If the user is not notified by the
certified facility operator thirty (30) days prior to the expiration of the
permit, the permit shall automatically be extended for one year only. The terms
and conditions of the permit may be subject to modification and change by the
certified facility operator during the life of the permit, as limitations or
requirements as identified in this article are modified and changed. The user
shall be informed of any proposed changes in this permit at least sixty (60)
days prior to the effective date of change. Any such change or new condition in
the permit shall include a reasonable time schedule for compliance.
   P.   Wastewater discharge permits are issued to a specific user for a
specific operation. A wastewater discharge permit shall not be reassigned or
transferred or sold to a new owner, new user, different premises or a new or
changed operation.
   Q.   Any violation of the conditions of a permit or of this article or of
applicable state and federal regulations shall be reason for revocation of such
permit. Grounds for revocation of a permit include, but are not limited to, the
following:
      1.   Failure of a user to accurately report the wastewater constituents
and characteristics of his discharge.
      2.   Failure of the user to report significant changes in operations or
wastewater constituents and characteristics.
      3.   Refusal of reasonable access to the user's premises for the purpose
of inspection or monitoring.
      4.   Violation of conditions of the permit. (Ord. 242, 10-7-2003)
6-3B-14: ENFORCEMENT AND PENALTIES:
   A.   Whenever the certified facility operator finds that any person has
violated or is violating this article, or any prohibition, limitation, or
requirement contained herein, he or she may serve upon such person a written
notice stating the nature of the violation and providing a reasonable time, not
to exceed thirty (30) days, for the satisfactory correction thereof. A meeting
with the certified facility operator may be scheduled at the request of the
violating person or the certified facility operator to discuss the violation
and/or satisfactory correction schedule.
   B.   Upon a finding by the certified facility operator that a person has
caused or permitted an unauthorized discharge or that any such unauthorized
discharge has not been corrected by timely compliance with a correction
schedule whether with or without a meeting with the certified facility
operator, he or she may order any person who causes or allows such unauthorized
discharge to show cause before the Simla municipal court judge why service
should not be terminated. A notice shall be served on the offending party,
specifying the time and place of a hearing to be held by the municipal court
judge regarding the violation, and directing the offending party to show cause
before the Simla municipal court why an order should not be made directing the
termination of service. The notice of the hearing shall be served personally or
by certified mail at least ten (10) days before the hearing. Service may be
made on any agent or office or a corporation.
   C.   The Simla municipal court judge shall conduct the hearing and shall:
      1.   Issue in the name of the board of trustees notices of hearings
requesting the attendance and testimony of witnesses and the production of
evidence relevant to any matter involved in any such hearing.
      2.   Receive evidence, including testimony and exhibits.
      3.   Transmit a report of the evidence and hearing to the board of
trustees, including transcripts and other evidence, if deemed preferable,
together with recommendations for action thereon.
   D.   At any public hearings, testimony taken before the municipal court
shall be under oath and recorded electronically. The transcript so recorded
will be made available to any person or party upon payment of the usual charges
therefor.
   E.   Upon review of the evidence by the board of trustees, the board shall
make written findings of fact. Thereupon, the board may:
      1.   Issue an order stating that no unauthorized discharge has occurred
and directing that service shall not be terminated therefor;
      2.   Issue an order stating that an unauthorized discharge has occurred
and directing that, following a specified time period, the wastewater treatment
service of the offending party be discontinued unless:
         a.   Adequate treatment facilities, devices, or other appurtenances
all have been installed, or
         b.   Existing treatment facilities, devices or other appurtenances are
properly operated or maintained; or
      3.   Issue such other or further orders and directives as are necessary
and appropriate.
   F.   Any party to the hearing aggrieved or adversely affected by an order of
the board of trustees may appeal such order to the district court in and for
the county of Elbert, pursuant to rule 106(a)(4) of the Colorado rules of civil
procedure.
   G.   If any user discharges into the town's wastewater treatment system
contrary to the provisions of this article, federal, or state pretreatment
requirements, or any order of the town, the town's attorney may commence an
action for appropriate legal and/or equitable relief, including a petition
before the Simla municipal court, or other court of competent jurisdiction, for
a temporary restraining order, preliminary, and/or permanent injunction against
the violation.
   H.   The town may also terminate or cause to be terminated wastewater
treatment service to any user for a violation of any provisions herein.
   I.   Any person or entity violating the provisions herein shall be liable
for any expense, loss or damage caused the town by reason of such violation,
including the increased costs, if any, for managing effluent and/or sludge,
when such increases are the result of the user's discharge of toxic pollutants.
The certified facility operator shall add such charge to the discharger's user
charge.
   J.   In the event that a user discharging such pollutants which cause the
town to violate any condition of its CDPS permit and the town is fined by the
EPA or the state for such violation, then such user shall be fully liable for
the total amount of the fine assessed against the town by the EPA and/or the
state.
   K.   Any person who violates the provisions of this article shall be subject
to a fine of not more than five hundred dollars ($500.00) for each violation.
Each day in which any such violation shall continue shall be deemed a separate
offense.
   L.   In addition to the penalties provided herein, the town may recover
reasonable attorney fees, court costs, court reporter's fees, and other expense
of litigation by appropriate legal action against the user found to have
violated any provisions herein, or the orders, rules, regulations, and permits
issued hereunder. The attorney for the town, upon request of the town board,
shall petition the Simla municipal court, or other court of competent
jurisdiction, to impose, assess, and recover such sums.
   M.   Any user who knowingly makes false statements, representations, or
certifications in any application, record, report plan or other document files
or required to be maintained pursuant hereto, or pursuant to its wastewater
discharge permit, or who falsifies, tampers with, or knowingly renders
inaccurate any monitoring device or method required herein shall, upon
conviction thereof, be subject to a fine of not more than five hundred dollars
($500.00). Alternately, the town may place the matter with the Elbert County
district attorney, to determine whether or not a felony has occurred which
requires prosecution in the Elbert County combined courts. (Ord. 242, 10-7-
2003)
ARTICLE C. WATER AND SEWER ASSESSMENTS
SECTION:
6-3C-1: Purpose
6-3C-2: Assessments Established
6-3C-3: Responsibility For Payment
6-3C-4: Failure To Make Payments
6-3C-5: Utility Billing System
6-3C-1: PURPOSE:
It has been deemed necessary to have this article passed to assist in the
collection of water and sewer fees, since the expense of operating the water
and sewer system is becoming more extensive. (Ord. 149, 2-1-1982)
6-3C-2: ASSESSMENTS ESTABLISHED:
There shall be a current fee set to pay for each water tap 1 . This shall be an
assessment per month and shall be payable as billed. There shall be a current
fee set to pay for each sewer tap. This shall be an assessment per month and
shall be payable as billed. (Ord. 149, 2-1-1982; amd. 1990 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. See section
  6-3A-8 of this chapter.
6-3C-3: RESPONSIBILITY FOR PAYMENT:
These bills for water and sewer are declared to be an assessment on the land
and are deemed payable by the landowner. (Ord. 149, 2-1-1982)
6-3C-4: FAILURE TO MAKE PAYMENTS:
It is therefore declared that in the event that this bill on any property
within the limits of the town or any property served by town water and sewer is
not paid, it may be certified by the town clerk and recorder and sent to the
county commissioners of Elbert County at Kiowa, Colorado, the town's county
seat, to be put upon the tax roll of said property. (Ord. 149, 2-1-1982)
6-3C-5: UTILITY BILLING SYSTEM:
To assist the town clerk and employees of the town in making accurate and
timely assessments of charges for town water, wastewater, and other municipal
utility services, there is hereby created a utility billing system. Every user
of town utilities shall be included in the system which will track billing and
payments pursuant to this code. Should any owner sell his or her property,
convey the property to another entity, change the account name, or otherwise
cause an amendment to be made in the utility billing system, an administrative
fee of fifteen dollars ($15.00) shall be assessed at the time of the change.
(Ord. 260, 12-5-2006, eff. 1-1-2007)
ARTICLE D. CROSS CONNECTIONS
SECTION:
6-3D-1: Definitions
6-3D-2: Requirements
6-3D-3: Inspection, Testing, And Repair
6-3D-4: Reporting And Recordkeeping
6-3D-5: Right Of Entry
6-3D-6: Compliance
6-3D-7: Violations And Penalties
6-3D-8: Conflict With Other Codes
6-3D-9: Validity
6-3D-1: DEFINITIONS:
ACTIVE DATE: Means the first day that a backflow prevention assembly or
backflow prevention method is used to control a cross-connection in each
calendar year.
AIR GAP: Is a physical separation between the free flowing discharge end of a
potable water supply pipeline and an open or non-pressure receiving vessel
installed in accordance with standard AMSE A112.1.2.
BACKFLOW: Means the undesirable reversal of flow of water or mixtures of water
and other liquids, gases, or other substances into the Town water system's
distribution system from any source or sources other than its intended source.
BACKFLOW CONTAMINATION EVENT: Means backflow into a public water system from an
uncontrolled cross connection such that the water quality no longer meet the
Colorado Primary Drinking Water Regulations or presents an immediate health
and/or safety risk to the public.
BACKFLOW PREVENTION ASSEMBLY: Means any mechanical assembly installed at a
water service line or at a plumbing fixture to prevent a backflow contamination
event, provided that the mechanical assembly is appropriate for the identified
contaminant at the cross connection and is an in-line field-testable assembly.
BACKFLOW PREVENTION METHOD: Means any method and/or non-testable device
installed at a water service line or at a plumbing fixture to prevent a
backflow contamination event, provided that the method or non-testable device
is appropriate for the identified contaminant at the cross connection.
CERTIFIED CROSS-CONNECTION CONTROL TECHNICIAN: Means a person who possesses a
valid Backflow Prevention Assembly Tester certification from one of the
following approved organizations: American Society of Sanitary Engineering
(ASSE) or the American Backflow Prevention Association (ABPA). If a
certification has expired, the certification is invalid.
CONTAINMENT: Means the installation of a backflow prevention assembly or a
backflow prevention method at any connection to the public water system that
supplies an auxiliary water system, location, facility, or area such that
backflow from a cross connection into the Town water system is prevented.
CONTAINMENT BY ISOLATION: Means the installation of backflow prevention
assemblies or backflow prevention methods at all cross connections identified
within a customer's water system such that backflow from a cross connection
into the Town water system is prevented.
CONTROLLED: Means having a properly installed, maintained, and tested or
inspected backflow prevention assembly or backflow prevention method that
prevents backflow through a cross connection.
CROSS CONNECTION: Means any connection that could allow any water, fluid, or
gas such that the water quality could present an unacceptable health and/or
safety risk to the Town residents, to flow from any pipe, plumbing fixture, or
a resident's water system in the Town water system's distribution system or any
other part of the Town water system through backflow.
MULTI-FAMILY: Means a single residential connection to the Town water system's
distribution system from which two (2) or more separate dwelling units are
supplied water.
SINGLE-FAMILY: Means: a) a single dwelling which is occupied by a single family
and is supplied by a separate service line; or b) a single dwelling comprised
of multiple living units where each living unit is supplied by a separate
service line.
UNCONTROLLED: Means not having a properly installed and maintained and tested
or inspected backflow prevention assembly or backflow prevention method, or the
backflow prevention assembly or backflow prevention method does not prevent
backflow through a cross connection.
WATER SUPPLY SYSTEM: Means a water distribution system, piping, connection
fittings, valves and appurtenances within a building, structure, or premises.
Water supply systems are also referred to commonly as premises plumbing
systems. (Ord. 311, 7-10-2018)
6-3D-2: REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Commercial, industrial, and multi-family service connections shall be
subject to a survey for cross connections. If a cross connection has been
identified, an appropriate backflow prevention assembly and/or method shall be
installed at the resident's water service connection within one hundred twenty
(120) days of its discovery. The assembly shall be installed downstream of the
Town water meter or as close to that location as deemed to be practical by the
Town water system. If the assembly or method cannot be installed within one
hundred twenty (120) days the Town water system must take action to control or
remove the cross connection, suspend service to the cross connection, or
receive an alternative compliance schedule from the Colorado Department of
Public Health and Environment.
   B.   In no case shall it be permissible to have connections or tees between
the meter and the containment backflow prevention assembly. In instances where
a reduced pressure principle backflow preventer cannot be installed, the owner
must install approved backflow prevention devices or methods at all cross-
connections within the owner's plumbing system.
   C.   Backflow prevention assemblies and methods shall be installed in a
location which provides access for maintenance, testing, and repair.
   D.   Reduced pressure principle backflow preventers shall not be installed
in manner subject to flooding.
   E.   Provisions shall be made to provide adequate drainage from the
discharge of water from reduced pressure principle backflow prevention
assemblies. Such discharge shall be conveyed in a manner which does not impact
waters of the State.
   F.   All assemblies and methods shall be protected to prevent freezing.
Those assemblies and methods used for seasonal services may be removed in lieu
of being protected from freezing. The assemblies and methods must be
reinstalled and then tested by a certified cross-connection control technician
upon reinstallation.
   G.   Where a backflow prevention assembly or method is installed on a water
supply system using storage water heating equipment such that thermal expansion
causes an increase in pressure, a device for controlling pressure shall be
installed.
   H.   All backflow prevention assemblies shall be tested at the time of
installation and on an annual schedule thereafter. Such tests must be conducted
by a certified cross-connection control technician.
   I.   The Town water system shall require inspection, testing, maintenance,
and as needed repairs and replacement of all backflow prevention assemblies and
methods, and of all required installations within the owner's plumbing system
in the case where containment assemblies and/or methods cannot be installed.
   J.   All costs for design, installation, maintenance, testing and as needed
repair and replacement are to be borne by the customer.
   K.   No grandfather clause (nonconforming use) exists except for fire
sprinkler systems where the installation of a backflow prevention assembly or
method will compromise the integrity of the fire sprinkler system.
   L.   For new buildings, all building plans must be submitted to the Town
Board, or designated Town official, and be approved prior to the issuance of
water service. All building plans must show, at a minimum:
      1.   Water service type, size, and location.
      2.   Meter size and location.
      3.   Backflow prevention assembly size, type, and location.
      4.   Fire sprinkler systems service line, size, and type of backflow
prevention assembly.
         a.   All fire sprinkling lines shall have a minimum protection of an
approved double check valve assembly for containment of the system.
         b.   All glycol (ethylene or propylene), or antifreeze systems shall
have an approved reduced pressure principle backflow preventer for containment.
         c.   Dry fire systems shall have an approved double check valve
assembly installed upstream of the air pressure valve.
         d.   In cases where the installation of a backflow prevention assembly
or method will compromise the integrity of the fire sprinkler system the Town
water system will measure chlorine residual at location representative of the
service connection once a month and perform periodic bacteriological testing at
the site. If the Town water system suspects water quality issues the Town water
system will evaluate the practicability of requiring that the fire sprinkler
system be flushed periodically. (Ord. 311, 7-10-2018)
6-3D-3: INSPECTION, TESTING, AND REPAIR:
   A.   Backflow prevention assemblies or method shall be tested by a certified
cross-connection control technician upon installation and tested at least
annually, thereafter. The tests shall be made at the expense of the landowner/
customer.
   B.   As necessary, backflow prevention assemblies or methods shall be
repaired and retested or replaced and tested at the expense of the landowner/
customer whenever the assemblies or methods used are found to be defective.
   C.   Testing gauges shall be tested and calibrated for accuracy at least
once annually. (Ord. 311, 7-10-2018)
6-3D-4: REPORTING AND RECORDKEEPING:
   A.   Copies of records of test reports, repairs and retests, or replacements
shall be kept by the landowner/customer for a minimum of three (3) years.
   B.   Copies of records of test reports, repairs and retests shall be
submitted to the Town by mail, facsimile, or e-mail by the testing company or
testing technician.
   C.   Information on test reports shall include, but may not be limited to:
      1.   Assembly or method type.
      2.   Assembly or method location.
      3.   Assembly make, model, and serial number.
      4.   Assembly size.
      5.   Test date.
      6.   Test results including all results that would justify a pass or fail
outcome.
      7.   Certified cross-connection control technician certification agency.
      8.   Technician's certification number.
      9.   Technician's certification expiration date.
      10.   Test kit manufacturer, model, and serial number.
      11.   Test kit calibration date. (Ord. 311, 7-10-2018)
6-3D-5: RIGHT OF ENTRY:
   A.   A properly credentialed representative of the Town water system shall
have the right of entry to survey any and all buildings and premises for the
presence of cross-connections for possible contamination risk to and for
determining compliance with this section. This right of entry shall be a
condition of water service in order to protect the health, safety, and welfare
of customers throughout the Town water system and, particularly, the Town's
water system distribution system. (Ord. 311, 7-10-2018)
6-3D-6: COMPLIANCE:
   A.   Landowners/customers shall cooperate with the installation, inspection,
testing, maintenance, and as needed, repair and replacement of backflow
prevention assemblies and with the survey process. For any identified
uncontrolled cross-connections, the Town water system shall complete one of the
following actions within one hundred twenty (120) days of its discovery:
      1.   Control the cross connection.
      2.   Remove the cross connection.
      3.   Suspend service to the cross connection.
   B.   The Town water system shall give notice in writing to any owner whose
plumbing system has been found to present a risk to the Town water system's
distribution system through an uncontrolled cross connection. The notice and
order shall state that the owner must install a backflow prevention assembly or
method at each service connection to the owner's premises to contain the water
service. The notice and order will give a date by which the owner must comply.
      1.   In instances where a backflow prevention assembly or method cannot
be installed, the landowner/customer must install approved backflow prevention
assemblies or methods at all cross- connections within the owner's water supply
system. The notice and order will give a date by which the owner must comply.
(Ord. 311, 7-10-2018)
6-3D-7: VIOLATIONS AND PENALTIES:
   A.   Any violation of the provisions of this article, shall, upon conviction
be punishable as provided in all applicable statutes, laws, and regulations.
   B.   Enforcement of this article, as codified, may be sought by order of the
Simla Municipal Court. (Ord. 311, 7-10-2018)
6-3D-8: CONFLICT WITH OTHER CODES:
   A.   If a dispute or conflict arises between the Colorado Plumbing Code as
adopted herein, and any Plumbing, Mechanical, Building, Electrical, Fire or
other Code adopted by the State, then the most stringent provisions of each
respective code shall prevail. (Ord. 311, 7-10-2018)
6-3D-9: VALIDITY:
If any part or parts of this article are for any reason held to be invalid such
decision shall not affect the validity of the remaining portions of this
article. The Board hereby declares that it would have passed this article and
each part or parts thereof, irrespective of the fact that any part or parts be
declared invalid. (Ord. 311, 7-10-2018)
CHAPTER 4
SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS
SECTION:
6-4-1: Definition
6-4-2: Application And Sketch Plan
6-4-3: Application Fee
6-4-4: Initial Determination
6-4-5: Hearing And Subdivision Development Agreement
6-4-6: Deemed Withdrawal Of Approval
6-4-7: Penalties
6-4-1: DEFINITION:
The following definition shall be applicable to this chapter:
SUBDIVISION: Any parcel of land which is to be used for condominiums,
apartments, or any other multiple-dwelling units, or the division of a lot,
tract, or parcel of land into two (2) or more lots, plats, sites, or other
divisions of land for the purpose, whether immediate or future, of sale or of
building development. "Subdivision" includes resubdivision and, when
appropriate to the context, relates to the process of subdividing or to the
land or territory subdivided. (Ord. 204, 9-3-1997)
6-4-2: APPLICATION AND SKETCH PLAN:
Application for a subdivision must be made at least thirty (30) days prior to a
regular meeting of the board for the application to be initially considered at
such board meeting. The application shall be on a form approved by the board
and shall contain a sketch plan to allow a review of the concept for
development of the subject property and the overall feasibility of the project.
The sketch plan is to include the following items:
   A.   A map showing the general location of the proposed subdivision, its
property boundaries, and the direction of true north.
   B.   The name and address of the owner of the subject property.
   C.   The name and address of the developer of the subject property.
   D.   The legal description of the subject property, if available.
   E.   The approximate total acreage of the proposed subdivision.
   F.   The tentative street and lot arrangement.
   G.   Topographic contours from available data, such as the United States
geological survey topographic maps.
   H.   A lot and street layout indicating general scaled dimensions of lots to
the nearest foot.
   I.   A description of the water distribution system contemplated for the
proposed development.
   J.   A description of the sewer collection system contemplated for the
proposed development.
   K.   A scale of the sketch plan on legible paper which shall be not less
than one inch (1") per two hundred feet (200'). Some variation from this scale
will be acceptable in the case of large subdivisions provided the plans and
design are clearly legible.
   L.   Any other information that the developer believes necessary to obtain
the informal opinion of the board as to the proposed subdivision's compliance
with the requirements set forth herein. (Ord. 204, 9-3-1997)
6-4-3: APPLICATION FEE:
The applicant shall be responsible for the costs incurred by the town in
processing the application including the reasonable costs incurred by the town
through the use of its staff, town engineer, and town attorney, as well as out
of pocket costs incurred by the town including the required publication of
notices. The applicant shall file with his or her application funds in the
amount of seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) to apply towards the town
costs. At the completion of the processing, the town shall refund any funds not
used by the town in processing the application and the town shall include with
the refund a detailed statement reflecting the costs incurred. The applicant
shall pay any costs incurred by the town which exceed the initial application
deposit after being given a detailed statement by the town reflecting the costs
incurred. (Ord. 227, 2-6-2001)
6-4-4: INITIAL DETERMINATION:
The board, upon receiving the application and sketch plan, with supporting
documentation, shall place the application upon the next available board agenda
for discussion. Upon receiving the application and the presentation, if any,
from the developer, the board shall make an initial determination as to whether
the proposed subdivision is feasible as to the town resources and in the town's
best interests. In making such initial determination, the board shall consider
all relevant factors, including the following stated factors:
   A.   Whether the proposed subdivision is supportive of the town's master
plan objectives and furthers the overall long range goals of the town.
   B.   Whether the proposed subdivision would benefit, harm, or have no effect
on the surrounding locale and neighborhoods.
   C.   Whether the town's infrastructure services, including, but not limited
to, water, sewer, streets, law enforcement, etc., would be sufficient to
service the subject area without harming or adversely impacting existing
residences and businesses.
In the event that the board makes an initial determination that the proposed
subdivision would not be detrimental to the town or its citizens and appears to
meet the objectives and long range goals of the town as set forth in its master
plan, the board shall schedule a public hearing concerning the application for
the next regularly scheduled board meeting. In the event that the board
determines that a special meeting is required, the board shall schedule such
special meeting provided that notice of such special meeting is published at
least fifteen (15) days prior to the scheduled meeting. Such initial
determination shall not be construed to be approval of the application. (Ord.
204, 9-3-1997; amd. Ord. 227, 2-6-2001)
6-4-5: HEARING AND SUBDIVISION DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT:
Upon completion of the public hearing, during which all interested citizens
shall be given the opportunity to address the application and ask questions of
the developer, should any wish to do so, the board shall either confirm or deny
its initial determination based upon the same relevant factors as set forth
above. In the event that the board confirms its initial determination, the
board shall authorize the town to enter into a subdivision development
agreement with the developer concerning the proposed subdivision. The agreement
may include an annexation agreement if the developer is seeking to annex
property into the town for the purposes of the subdivision and has complied
with this code. The agreement shall include, among other such provisions as may
be required by the board, the following provisions:
   A.   The developer shall be responsible for the preparation of a final
subdivision plat, such plat to be legally sufficient for filing with the Elbert
County clerk and recorder. The town will not sign the plat or approve the plat
for recording until assured that the developer has complied with all provisions
of the agreement. The developer shall be responsible for the cost of recording
the plat.
   B.   The developer shall not obtain final subdivision plat approval until
the developer provides for the installation of all public improvements required
by the development and acknowledges responsibility for the cost and
construction of all wastewater, water, or drainage facilities, and cost and
construction of all necessary streets, alleys, sidewalks, curbs, gutters, fire
hydrants, and related appurtenances in and through the subject property. In
addition to dedicating such improvements to the town, the developer shall
execute such deeds and easements as required by the town for all sewer and
water lines, or other public utilities upon, across or over any of the subject
property or adjacent properties.
   C.   The developer shall pay the entire cost of the above public
improvements that the developer constructs on, through, or adjacent to
unserviced or undeveloped lands. The construction shall conform to all town
standards and regulations and shall be pre- and post-approved by the town or
its representatives. The developer shall obtain all necessary building permits
prior to commencing construction and shall, upon completion, properly and
legally dedicate all such public improvements to the exclusive ownership of the
town.
   D.   The town may enter into a recovery cost agreement with the developer to
allow the developer to collect a prorated share of the construction costs of
the public improvements from the owner or owners of property served by the
improvements at the time such owner or owners develops his or her property.
   E.   The final subdivision plat may be approved by the board prior to the
completion of the required infrastructure if the developer provides financial
guarantees for the completion of the improvements by performance bond, letter
of credit, cash, escrow deposit, or other form agreeable to the board.
   F.   At least thirty (30) days before the commencement of the construction
of any phase of the development of the subject property, the developer will
agree to submit to the board a plan development of that phase. The developer
agrees not to commence construction of any additional phase until the town or
its representative approves the plan and the town agrees that its approval
shall not be unreasonably withheld or delayed.
   G.   Depending upon the size of the proposed subdivision, the board may
require that the developer set aside and dedicate to the town a portion of the
subject property for a park or other recreational purpose. (Ord. 204, 9-3-1997;
amd. Ord. 227, 2-6-2001)
6-4-6: DEEMED WITHDRAWAL OF APPROVAL:
In the event that the town and the developer cannot agree or enter into a
subdivision development agreement within sixty (60) days of the public hearing
referred to in section
6-4-5 of this chapter, all official approval of the board in regard to the
developer's application shall be deemed withdrawn. Further, if the developer
does not commence construction within one year of the date of the execution of
the subdivision development agreement, all official approval of the board in
regard to the developer's application shall be deemed withdrawn and the
agreement shall terminate. (Ord. 204, 9-3-1997; amd. Ord. 227, 2-6-2001)
6-4-7: PENALTIES:
In the event that a landowner and/or developer subdivides real property located
within the town of Simla, either through sale, transfer, agreement,
negotiation, or other means, before the town has approved a plat and agreement,
and before the plat has been recorded or filed in the office of the Elbert
County clerk and recorder as required in this chapter, the landowner and/or
developer shall pay a penalty of one hundred dollars ($100.00) to the town for
each lot or parcel so transferred, or sold, or agreed or negotiated to be sold.
Further, the town may enjoin such transfer or sale or agreement by action for
injunction brought in any court of competent jurisdiction and may recover the
penalty by civil action in any court of competent jurisdiction. Further, it is
hereby unlawful to erect, construct, reconstruct, use, or alter any building or
structure or use any part of the subject land in violation of the town
subdivision regulations and the town may enforce obedience to this chapter by
appropriate fine through the Simla municipal court. Further, the town may
institute an appropriate action in Simla municipal court to prevent, enjoin,
abate, or remove the violation to prevent the occupancy of the building,
structure, or land or to prevent any illegal act or use in or on the premises.
(Ord. 269, 10-14-2008)
CHAPTER 5
ADOPTION OF FRANCHISE ORDINANCES
SECTION:
6-5-1: Mountain View Electric Association Franchise
6-5-1: MOUNTAIN VIEW ELECTRIC ASSOCIATION FRANCHISE:
There is hereby adopted by reference the Mountain View Electric Association
franchise ordinance 316 passed May 21, 2019, a copy of which shall be on file
in the office of the town clerk and recorder for public inspection. (Ord. 316,
5-21- 2019)
CHAPTER 6
TOWN SERVICES TO PLATTED, UNDEVELOPED LANDS
SECTION:
6-6-1: Definition
6-6-2: Requirements
6-6-3: Assessments
6-6-4: Agreements
6-6-1: DEFINITION:
For the purposes of this chapter, subject property governed by this chapter
shall include all properties located within the town boundaries which are
platted but undeveloped to the extent that there are no streets, alleys,
sidewalks, and curbs, or water or sewer connections to the property. (Res. 55-
1994, 12-15-1994)
6-6-2: REQUIREMENTS:
Any owner or owners of real property located within the town which property is
platted, but undeveloped, may apply to the town for permission to construct or
have constructed streets, alleys, sidewalks, or curbs, and may also apply for
the installation of water mains and pipes, sewers (including storm sewers) and
related municipal services to the property. In such event, the following
requirements shall be met and the following factors and procedure shall apply:
(Res. 55-1994, 12-15-1994)
   A.   Application: The owner, owners, or their agent, shall submit an
application to the board which shall state the name or names, addresses and
phone numbers of the applicant or applicants. The application shall specify, in
detail, and include drawings or diagrams as appropriate, the description of the
proposed project, a description of the services or improvements desired by the
applicant, a plan for construction, and proposed completion dates or estimates.
The board may request the applicant to provide further information or
documentation to assist the board in its determinations. The applicant shall be
responsible for the costs incurred by the town in processing the application
including the reasonable costs incurred by the town through the use of its
staff, town engineer, and town attorney, as well as out-of-pocket costs
incurred by the town including any required publication of notices. The
applicant shall file with his or her application funds in the amount of seven
hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) to apply towards the town costs. At the
completion of the processing, the town shall refund any funds not used by the
town in processing the application and the town shall include with the refund a
detailed statement reflecting the costs incurred. The applicant shall pay any
costs incurred by the town which exceed the initial application deposit after
being given a detailed statement by the town reflecting the costs incurred.
(Ord. 227, 2-6-2001)
   B.   Board Determination: The board shall have absolute discretion, except
as set forth herein, as to whether to construct, allow construction, or approve
the improvements requested by the applicant. The factors to be considered by
the board shall include, but not be limited to, the following:
      1.   The size of the subject parcel or property in consideration.
      2.   The size of the applicant's property in relation to the entire size
of the parcel or property in consideration.
      3.   The desires and wishes of the other owners of the subject parcel or
property who have not made application.
      4.   Whether or not in the discretion of the board the subject property
warrants development in relation to the density, locale, and characteristics of
the surrounding neighborhood.
      5.   The proposed improvements shall be considered in relation to the
town's zoning and master plan objectives.
   C.   Improvements: Upon approval of the application the board, or its
representative, shall establish appropriate specifications for the improvements
and assessment of costs:
      1.   Water And Sewer Improvements:
         a.   Each applicant and owner, groups of owners, and/or developers,
shall cause to be installed water and/or sewer main in the area to be served
according to the town's specifications. The board in fixing the size, location
and specifications for said improvements, shall not only consider the immediate
area to be served but also the use of said improvements in providing service to
other areas as development warrants. Upon acceptance of said improvements by
the town, all utility mains located within the streets shall be the property of
the town and shall be maintained by it. (Res. 55-1994, 12-15-1994)
         b.   The board acknowledges that if sixty percent (60%) of the
frontage of the lots or lands adjacent to or abutting upon any street or alley
is included in the applicant's ownership, the town is required to construct the
necessary water main and sewer main services and to assess the costs
accordingly. (Ord. 197, 4-3-1996)
      2.   Grading Of Streets And Alleys: Each applicant and owner, group of
owners, and/or developers, shall also cause to be graded all streets and alleys
having been dedicated to the town, should the town determine the streets and
alleys to be opened. The grading and construction shall be in accordance with
town regulations and specifications.
      3.   Curbs And Sidewalks: Each applicant, owner, group of owners, and/or
developers shall be required to construct and install curbs and/or sidewalks in
accordance with town regulations and specifications if so determined by the
board. (Res. 55-1994, 12-15-1994)
6-6-3: ASSESSMENTS:
The cost of the improvements shall be paid as follows:
   A.   Water And Sewer Improvements: The cost of the installation of water
mains and pipelines and sewer main lines and pipelines shall be borne by the
adjacent property owners according to the square footage of the property served
thereby.
   B.   Streets, Alleys, Curbs And Sidewalks: The cost of the installation of
streets, alleys, curbs and sidewalks shall be borne by the adjacent property
owners on the basis of front footage to the property served thereby.
   C.   Estimates: Prior to construction of improvements, the board shall
estimate the costs of the improvements to each subject landowner and shall
convey the estimate to such landowner and give the landowner an opportunity to
be heard before the board. In the absence of any agreement for payment between
the town and land owners, the town may assess the costs thereof in accordance
with Colorado Revised Statutes, sections 31-15-401(1)(d) and/or 31-15-704, as
amended. (Res. 55-1994, 12-15-1994)
6-6-4: AGREEMENTS:
Nothing in this law shall prevent the town from entering into agreements with
owners or developers that vary from the terms, herein, provided that
nonapplicants or adjacent owners to the subject property are not assessed
thereby. (Res. 55-1994, 12-15-1994)
CHAPTER 7
GROUND WATER PROTECTION
SECTION:
6-7-1: Town's Rights
6-7-2: Drilling Restricted
6-7-3: Notification; Enforcement
6-7-4: Existing Wells
6-7-1: TOWN'S RIGHTS:
The Town hereby claims and appropriates into its water service plan and as part
of its water service improvements, all right, title, and interest in and to the
ground water and right to use ground water in the Big Sandy Creek alluvium
underlying and located within the Town boundaries. (Ord. 197, 4-3-1996)
6-7-2: DRILLING RESTRICTED:
After the effective date of this Ordinance, no person, other than the Town of
Simla and/or its authorized agents, may drill or construct a water well or
withdraw ground water from the Big Sandy Creek alluvium underlying and located
within the Town boundaries. (Ord. 197, 4-3-1996)
6-7-3: NOTIFICATION; ENFORCEMENT:
The Town shall notify the Colorado State Engineer and the Colorado Ground Water
Commission as well as the Upper Big Sandy Ground Water Management District of
the adoption of this Ordinance, and the Mayor and Clerk are authorized to
complete any and all documentation which is deemed necessary to enforce this
Ordinance both locally and through State and district regulations, if any.
(Ord. 197, 4-3-1996)
6-7-4: EXISTING WELLS:
Those wells which are owned and operated by private persons within the Town as
of the effective date of this Ordinance and which are drawing water from the
Big Sandy Creek alluvium may continue to operate and draw water as before and
said wells may be repaired or rehabilitated. However, said use or quantity of
water drawn may not increase and the well may not be substituted, relocated or
otherwise moved by the owner or operator. If an existing well ceases to
function because of a drop or decrease in the alluvium water table, such well
may not be replaced unless the owner applies for and is granted the right to
drill into the Arapahoe and Laramie-Fox Hills Aquifers or other similar deep-
water aquifer. The Town may adopt such regulations as are deemed to be
necessary to ascertain and establish the use and/or quantity of water used by
the existing private wells located within the Town Boundaries. (Ord. 197, 4-3-
1996)
TITLE 7
BUILDING AND ZONING
CHAPTER 1
BUILDING REGULATIONS
SECTION:
7-1-1: Building Codes Adopted
7-1-2: Building Official/Inspector
7-1-3: Building Permit Fees
7-1-4: Set Up Inspection Fee
7-1-5: Other Inspections And Fee
7-1-6: Inspection Fee For Consultants
7-1-7: Plan Review Fee For Consultants
7-1-8: Fee Amendments
7-1-9: Penalties For Violation
7-1-1: BUILDING CODES ADOPTED:
   A.   Pursuant to Tile 31, Article 16, Part 2 of the Colorado Revised
Statutes, the "International Building Code", 2006 edition, and the
International Residential Code", 2006 edition, including the appendices
published for both Codes by the International Code Council, Inc., 500 New
Jersey Avenue, NW 6th Floor, Washington, DC, is adopted by reference as the
building codes for the Town of Simla.
   B.   The subject matter of the adopted International Building Codes and
appendixes includes comprehensive provisions and standards regulating the
erection, construction, enlargement, alteration, repair, moving, removal,
conversion, demolition, occupancy, equipment, use, height, area, and
maintenance of all buildings and structures in the Town of Simla and further
provides for the issuance of permits and the collection of fees therefore.
Three (3) copies of the IBC and IRC are on file in the office of the Town
Clerk.
(Ord. 332, 12-13-2022)
7-1-2: BUILDING OFFICIAL / INSPECTOR:
   A.   The Board shall hire, employ, or retain a qualified Building Official
or Inspector who is trained, certified, and / or licensed to conduct
inspections of buildings within the Town that are subject to the Codes stated
herein, or any amendment to or adoption of a later Code that may be adopted by
the Board.
   B.   The determination of value or valuation under any of the provisions of
the Building Codes shall be made by the Building Official / Inspector. The Town
Clerk, in cooperation with the Building Official / Inspector shall be
responsible for issuing permits and collecting fees as set forth in this
chapter.
   C.   Buildings or structures one hundred fifty (150) square feet or less and
pre- engineered temporary metal one-stall car ports shall not require a
building permit but must comply with appropriate setback regulations. All other
buildings or structures must be issued a permit and pay the necessary fee prior
to construction.
(Ord. 332, 12-13-2022)
7-1-3: BUILDING PERMIT FEES:
   The following fees shall be charged for building permits.
Total Valuations Fee
Total Valuations             Fee
$1.00 to $500.00             $25.00
                             $25.00 for the first $500.00 plus $3.27 for each
$501.00 to $2,000.00         additional $100.00 or fraction thereof, to and
                             including $2,000.00
                             $75.00 for the first $2,000.00 plus $18.48 for
$2,001.00 to $25,000.00      each additional $1,000.00 or fraction thereof, to
                             and including $25,000.00
                             $400.00 for the first $25,000.00 plus $16.00 for
$25,001.00 to $50,000.00     each additional $1,000.00 or fraction thereof and
                             including $50,000.00
                             $685.00 for the first $50,000.00 plus $15.30 for
$50,001.00 to $100,000.00    each additional $1,000.00 or fraction thereof, to
                             and including $100,000.00
                             $1,100.00 for the first $100,000.00 plus $6.63 for
$100,001.00 to $500,000.00   each additional $1,000.00 or fraction thereof, to
                             and including $100,000.00
                             $3,400.00 for the first $500,000.00 plus $6.20 for
$500,001.00 to $1,000,000.00 each additional $1,000.00 or fraction thereof, to
                             and including $1,000,000.00
$1,000,001 and above         $5,700.00 for the first $1,000,000.00 plus $3.80
                             for each additional $1,000.00 or fraction thereof
 
(Ord. 332, 12-13-2022)
7-1-4: SET UP INSPECTION FEE:
   A set up inspection fee shall be charged as follows: Set up inspection fees
for a single wide mobile home, manufactured home, modular home, and other
factory built housing will be a minimum of two hundred seventy-five dollars
($275.00), and if the value of the home or house is greater than twenty five
thousand dollars ($25,000.00) the fee will be calculated as provided under this
chapter for any other structure.
(Ord. 332, 12-13-2022)
7-1-5: OTHER INSPECTIONS AND FEE:
   A.   Inspections out of normal business hours: $60.00 per hour and a minimum
of two (2) hours.
   B.   Re-inspection fees: $60.00 per hour.
   C.   Inspections for which no fee is specifically charged: $60.00 per hour /
minimum 0.5 hours.
   D.   Additional plan review required by changes, additions, or revisions to
approved plans: $60.00 per hour / minimum 0.5 hours.
(Ord. 332, 12-13-2022)
7-1-6: INSPECTION FEE FOR CONSULTANTS:
   If the Building Official / Inspector determines that a third party
consultant is required to properly inspect the project, the applicant and
property owner are responsible to reimburse any additional fees required for
the third party inspection before a certificate of occupancy will be issued.
(Ord. 332, 12-13-2022)
7-1-7: PLAN REVIEW FEE FOR CONSULTANTS:
   If the Building Official / Inspector determines that the plans are of such a
nature as to require review by a third party consultant, the applicant will
pay, at the time of the application, the estimated cost for the review. After
the review is complete, the applicant will be refunded any money not required
to pay the consultant, but if the review costs more than the estimate, the
applicant is required to pay the additional fees before the building permit
will be issued.
(Ord. 332, 12-13-2022)
7-1-8: FEE AMENDMENTS:
   From time to time, the Board may amend the fees contained herein by
resolution.
(Ord. 332, 12-13-2022)
7-1-9: PENALTIES FOR VIOLATION:
   Any person, firm, corporation, or other entity that violates any provision
of the International Building Code or International Residential Code, as
adopted herein, is guilty of a civil infraction. A violation of the Codes is a
strict liability offense, A person, firm, corporation, or other entity shall be
guilty of a separate offense for each and every day or portion thereof during
which any violation of any of the provisions of the Code is committed,
continued, or permitted. Upon conviction of any such violations, such person,
firm, corporation, or other entity, shall be punished by a fine of not less
than one hundred dollars ($100.00) and not more than two thousand six hundred
and fifty dollars ($2,650.00). Further, certificates of occupancy shall not be
issued to those in violation of this chapter.
(Ord. 332, 12-13-2022)
CHAPTER 2
ELECTRICAL REGULATIONS
SECTION:
7-2-1: Electrical Inspections
7-2-1: ELECTRICAL INSPECTIONS:
Electrical inspections are a matter of statewide concern; for electrical
regulations, see Colorado Revised Statutes section 12-23-111(15) (1990 Code)
CHAPTER 3
ZONING REGULATIONS
SECTION:
7-3-1: Zoning Commission
7-3-2: Board Of Adjustment
7-3-3: Zoning Regulations
7-3-3-1: Purpose
7-3-3-2: Definitions
7-3-3-3: Minimum Lot Area And Site Dimensions And Restrictions As To Structure
Density
7-3-3-4: Setbacks
7-3-3-5: Building Height
7-3-3-6: Use Restrictions (Rep. by Res. 80-1997, 5-6-1997)
7-3-3-7: Authority To Grant Variances; Restrictions
7-3-3-8: Amendments
7-3-1: ZONING COMMISSION:
   A.   Commission Established; Appointment; Terms: A Zoning Commission is
hereby established and authorized to define the business and residential
boundaries of the entire Town and to draft zoning ordinances and regulations to
be submitted to the Board of Trustees for its approval. The membership of the
commission shall be composed of three (3) citizens to be appointed by the Board
of Trustees, and the terms of each shall be fixed by the Board at the time they
are appointed. (1990 Code)
   B.   Zoning Ordinance Adoption Procedure:
      1.   Purpose In View: Such ordinances and regulations shall be drafted in
accordance with the master plan and designed to lessen congestion in the
streets; to secure safety from fire, panic and other dangers; to promote health
and the general welfare; to provide adequate light and air; to prevent the
overcrowding of the land; to avoid undue concentration of population; to
facilitate the adequate provision of transportation, water, sewerage, schools,
parks and other public requirements and facilities. Such regulations and
ordinances shall be made with reasonable consideration, among other things, as
to the character of the district and its peculiar suitability for particular
uses, and with a view to conserving the value of buildings and land and
encouraging the most appropriate use of land throughout the Town.
      2.   Functions Of Zoning Commission: The Zoning Commission shall make a
preliminary report to the Board of Trustees of its proposed business and
residential districts and zoning ordinances and regulations, and before the
commission submits its final report to the Board of Trustees, it shall hold
public hearings on the preliminary report after giving at least fifteen (15)
days' notice of the time and place of such hearing by publishing the notice in
an official paper or paper of general circulation in the Town.
      3.   Adoption Of Zoning Ordinances: After the Zoning Commission submits a
final report to the Board of Trustees, the Board of Trustees may adopt such a
report and enact it into law by ordinance. However, any changes deemed
necessary by the Board of Trustees may be made to the commission's final report
before its adoption. After the Board of Trustees has passed such an ordinance
or regulation and it has been published in accordance with law, a public
hearing shall be conducted by the Board of Trustees after which such ordinances
or regulations may be changed by the Board of Trustees if deemed proper by
amending the ordinances or regulations previously adopted, publishing such
amendments and giving notice of and conducting hearings relative to such
amendments. No ordinances, regulations or amendments thereto shall become
effective until after public hearings have been had. The Board of Trustees
shall give official notice of any and all its hearings to be held in accordance
with the provisions of subsection B2 of this section. (Ord. 81, 5-2-1949; amd.
1990 Code)
      4.   Amendments To Zoning Ordinances: Zoning ordinances or regulations
may be, from time to time, amended, supplemented, changed, modified or
repealed. The procedure set out in subsections B2 and B3 of this section shall
be followed in making any amendments or changes to existing ordinances,
regulations or district boundaries. In case, however, of a protest against such
changes signed by the owners of twenty percent (20%) or more, either of the
area of the lots included in such proposed change, or of those immediately
adjacent in the rear thereof extending one hundred feet (100') therefrom, or of
those directly opposite thereto extending one hundred feet (100') from the
street frontage of such opposite lots, such amendment or change shall not
become effective except by the favorable vote of three-fourths (3/4) of all the
members of the Board of Trustees. The provisions in subsection B2 of this
Section relative to public hearings and official notice shall apply equally to
all changes or amendments. (Ord. 81, 5-2-1949)
   C.   Master Plan Established: The Town's Master Plan, dated March 7, 1989,
is hereby adopted by reference as though set out herein in full. A copy of the
same is on file in the office of the Town Clerk and Recorder for public
inspection. (1990 Code)
7-3-2: BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT:
   A.   Board Established; Composition; Appointment And Term: A Board of
Adjustment is hereby established to exercise the powers enumerated and in
conformity with the provisions of subsection 7-3-2B below. The Board of
Adjustment shall be composed of five (5) members, each to be appointed by the
Board of Trustees, by majority decision, for terms of three (3) years each.
Members may be reappointed at the end of their term. (Ord. 81, 5-2-1949; 1990
Code)
   B.   Powers And Duties: The Board of Adjustment shall hear and decide
appeals from and review any order, requirement, decision or determination made
by any administrative official charged with the enforcement of any ordinance or
regulations adopted pursuant to this Section or Section
7-3-1 of this Chapter. It shall also hear and decide all matters referred to it
or upon which it is required to pass under any zoning ordinance or regulation.
The concurring vote of four (4) members of the Board shall be necessary to
reverse any order, requirement, decision or determination of any such
administrative official, or to decide in favor of the applicant any matter upon
which it is required to pass under any such ordinance or regulation or to
effect any variation in such ordinance.
   C.   Appeals:
      1.   An appeal to the Board shall be taken within such time as shall be
prescribed by the Board by general rule, by filing with the officer from whom
the appeal is taken to the Board a notice of appeal, specifying the grounds
thereof. The officer from whom the appeal is taken shall forthwith transmit to
the Board all papers constituting the record upon which the action appealed
from was taken.
      2.   An appeal stays all proceedings in furtherance of the action
appealed from, unless the officer from whom the appeal is taken certifies to
the Board, after the notice of appeal shall have been filed with him, that by
reason of facts stated in the certificate, a stay would, in his opinion, cause
imminent peril to life or property, in which case, proceedings shall not be
stayed otherwise than by a restraining order which may be granted by the Board
on notice to the officer from whom the appeal is taken and on due cause shown.
      3.   The Board of Adjustment shall fix a reasonable time for the hearing
of the appeal and give due notice thereof to the parties, and decide the same
within a reasonable time. Upon hearing, any party may appear in person or by
agent or by attorney.
      4.   The Board may reverse or affirm, wholly or partly, or may modify the
order, requirement, decision or determination appealed from and shall make such
order, requirement, decision or determination as in its opinion ought to be
made in the premises, and to that end shall have all the powers of the officer
from whom the appeal is taken. Where there are practical difficulties or
unnecessary hardship in the way of carrying out the strict letter of such an
ordinance or regulation, the Board shall have the power in passing upon appeals
to vary or modify the application of the regulations or provisions of such
ordinance relating to the use, construction or alteration of buildings or
structures, or the use of land, so that the spirit of the ordinance shall be
observed, public safety and welfare secured and substantial justice done. (Ord.
81, 5-2-1949)
7-3-3: ZONING REGULATIONS:
7-3-3-1: PURPOSE:
The Town is imposed with the duty of promoting and protecting the welfare of
its citizens which includes the maintenance of a safe and orderly environment.
(Ord. 171, 2-11-1988)
7-3-3-2: DEFINITIONS:
When used in this Section
7-3-3, the following words and terms shall have the meanings ascribed to them
as follows:
ACCESSORY BUILDINGS: Refers to support buildings to a residence such as storage
sheds, detached garages, greenhouses and similar structures.
DWELLING: Any structure, abode or residence inhabited by one or more persons
for any period of time and which includes connected or outlying structures.
SETBACK: The distance from a lot or site line measured horizontally to a line
or location within the lot or site which establishes the permitted location of
structures or buildings on the site. (Ord. 171, 2-11-1988)
7-3-3-3: MINIMUM LOT AREA AND SITE DIMENSIONS AND RESTRICTIONS AS TO STRUCTURE
DENSITY:
   A.   Residential:
      1.   The minimum lot size per single family dwelling unit, shall not be
less than twenty five feet (25') in width from boundary line to boundary line,
nor less than one hundred forty feet (140') in depth, from boundary line to
boundary line. (Ord. 309, 1-9-2018)
      2.   The minimum lot size for two-family or multi-family dwellings,
excepting mobile homes, shall not be less than one hundred feet (100') in
width, from boundary line to boundary line, nor less than one hundred forty
feet (140') in depth, from boundary line to boundary line. (Ord. 171, 2-11-
1988; amd. Ord. 194, 7-10-1995)
   B.   Commercial: The minimum lot size for each lot allocated for commercial
use shall not be less than fifty feet (50') in width, from boundary line to
boundary line, nor less than one hundred forty feet (140') in depth, from
boundary line to boundary line.
   The term "width" herein shall refer to that portion of the lot which faces a
road, street, alleyway, or in general, fronts a thoroughfare.
   The term "depth" herein shall refer to that portion of the lot which extends
back in a perpendicular line from the thoroughfare.
   C.   Corner Lots: Corner lots shall be in conformity with the general design
of the other lots located in the same block and be subject to the same
specifications, notwithstanding the fact that said corner lots have two (2)
sides facing a thoroughfare. (Ord. 171, 2-11-1988)
   D.   Principal Buildings Limited: There shall be no more than one principal
building with or without accessory buildings per single lot whether or not the
building is being used for residential or commercial purposes. Additional
temporary buildings may be allowed, by written permit, for up to three (3)
months on lots used for commercial purposes for the purpose of construction or
other activities associated with the construction taking place on the lot, or
lots. The temporary building exception shall not be available to lots used for
residential purposes as it is the intent of this Code that there be no more
than one dwelling per lot. However, a lot with a residential building located
on it, at the consent of the owner, may allow a temporary dwelling, such as a
trailer or recreational vehicle, to be located upon the lot for temporary
housing of the owner's family or friends provided that a temporary dwelling is
not located on the parcel for more than two (2) weeks per year. Temporary
buildings must still be in compliance with the minimum lot area and setbacks
set forth in this Code. (Ord. 301, 4-14-2015)
7-3-3-4: SETBACKS:
   A.   Residential:
      1.   Front: The minimum front setback for all residential lots shall be
fifteen feet (15'); and
      2.   Side: The minimum side setback for all residential lots shall be
five feet (5'); and
      3.   Rear: The minimum rear setback for all residential lots shall be
five feet (5'); and (Ord. 309, 1-9-2018)
      4.   Corner Lots: Corner lots shall be in conformity with the general
design of the other lots located in the same block and be subject to the same
specifications, notwithstanding the fact that said corner lots have two (2)
sides facing a thoroughfare. Particularly, a person wishing to place or build a
structure on a corner lot shall comply with the fifteen foot (15') front
setback as to each thoroughfare adjacent to the subject corner lot. (Ord. 232,
2-5-2002)
   B.   Accessory Buildings: The minimum front setback for any accessory
buildings shall be twenty five feet (25'), the minimum side setback shall be
five feet (5'), and the rear setback shall be ten feet (10'). (1990 Code)
   C.   Commercial:
      1.   Front: The minimum front setback for all commercial lots shall be
ten feet (10');
      2.   Side: The minimum side setback for all commercial lots shall be five
feet (5'); and
      3.   Rear: The minimum rear setback for all commercial lots shall be ten
feet (10'). (Ord. 171, 2-11-1988; amd. 1990 Code)
      4.   Corner Lots: Corner lots shall be in conformity with the general
design of the other lots located in the same block and be subject to the same
specifications, notwithstanding the fact that said corner lots have two (2)
sides facing a thoroughfare. Particularly, a person wishing to place or build a
structure on a corner lot shall comply with the ten foot (10') front setback as
to each thoroughfare adjacent to the subject corner lot. (Res. 99-99, 5-4-1999)
   D.   Mixed Residential/Commercial: Any property which has a mixed
residential, commercial use shall have the same setback requirements as set
forth under subsection A of this section. (Res. 94-99, 1-5-1999)
7-3-3-5: BUILDING HEIGHT:
   A.   Residential: The maximum height of residential buildings shall be
thirty five feet (35').
   B.   Accessory Buildings: The maximum height of any accessory building shall
be twenty feet (20').
   C.   Commercial: The maximum height of any commercial building shall not
exceed forty feet (40'). (Ord. 171, 2-11-1988)
7-3-3-6: USE RESTRICTIONS:
(Rep. by Res. 80-1997, 5-6-1997)
7-3-3-7: AUTHORITY TO GRANT VARIANCES; RESTRICTIONS:
The board of trustees may authorize, in specific cases and only after
submission of a landowner of a proper application followed by a public hearing,
as set forth below, such variance from the terms of this code as will not be
contrary to the public interest where, owing to special conditions, a literal
enforcement of the provisions of this code would result in unnecessary hardship
to the landowner. No variance shall be granted merely on the grounds that the
subject real property is presently a nonconforming use or adjacent to other
nonconforming uses. There shall be a presumption that the variance would not be
in the best interests of the town of Simla. The procedures for applying for a
variance are as follows:
   A.   Application For Variance: A variance from the terms of this code shall
not be considered by the board of trustees unless and until a written
application has been submitted to the Simla building inspector. The building
inspector shall first determine whether or not the application complies with
the requirements of this section. If the application contains all of the
information required, the building inspector shall then submit to the board the
application and attached information along with the building inspector's
findings and recommendations. If the application does not comply with this
code, the building inspector shall so inform the landowner of those
requirements that have not been met. The completed application shall include
the following:
      1.   The name, address, and telephone number of the applicant or
applicants.
      2.   The legal description and street address of the subject property.
      3.   A detailed description of the variance that is being requested
including a sketch of the property and existing setbacks, height, and other
facts relevant to the variance request.
      4.   A narrative statement from the applicant, accompanied by such
documentation as the applicant asserts is relevant stating why special
conditions and circumstances exist which are peculiar to the subject property,
the structure or buildings involved, and an explanation or argument as to why
the subject property or buildings are not similar to other lands, structures,
or buildings located within the town and why the present town code provisions
should not apply to the subject property or buildings. As to the narrative, the
applicant shall further state why a literal interpretation of the provisions of
this code would deprive the applicant of rights commonly enjoyed by other
properties located within the town, why special conditions and circumstances
relevant to the subject property do not result from the actions of the
applicant, and why granting the variance requested would not confer upon the
applicant any special privilege that are denied by this code to other lands,
structure, or buildings in the town.
      5.   The applicant shall provide a list of the names and mailing
addresses of all property owners whose property is located within an area
within three hundred feet (300') of the subject property seeking the variance.
      6.   At the time of the submittal of the application to the building
inspector, the building inspector shall notify the town board of the
application. The board shall then, at the next regularly scheduled meeting,
determine the application fee, which should be deposited with the town clerk.
The amount of the fee shall be determined by the board based upon a preliminary
review of the application and shall be designed to cover the town costs
resulting from the variance review and hearing including review by the town
engineer and town attorney, if requested by the board, and the sums required
for publication and administrative review. No application for variance shall
continue until such time as the applicant has deposited the requested amount.
The town reserves the right to request additional sums if the review of the
application results in unforeseen expenses.
   B.   Public Hearing: Upon the board's receipt of the application,
application fee, and the building inspector's report and recommendations, the
board may request such further information from the applicant as the board
deems to be necessary for a proper review of the application. Upon receiving
all information deemed by the board to be necessary for the review, notice of
the application and notice of a public hearing shall be published in the two
(2) weeks preceding the public hearing. The board shall also cause or require
to be mailed copies of the public notice to all parties as would be required
for special use review/permits and those landowners within three hundred feet
(300') of the subject property. The public hearing may be either at a regularly
scheduled meeting or a special meeting called for the variance review.
   C.   Action By Board Of Trustees: A variance shall not be granted unless the
board of trustees makes specific findings of fact based directly on the
particular evidence or testimony presented to the board through the application
packet and at the public hearing. The evidence must support the conclusion that
the applicant has met all of the above described standards and conditions for
the granting of a variance. Within thirty (30) days of the public hearing, the
board of trustees shall either approve, conditionally approve, or disapprove
the request for variance. The board may delay its decision for a definite
period should it determine that further information is required before making
the decision. In making its determination, the board of trustees shall refer to
the ordinance and standards used in evaluating the application, the reasons for
approval or denial, and the actions, if any, that the applicant may be required
to take in obtaining a permit or approval of the variance.
   D.   Supplemental Conditions And Safeguards: Should the board of trustees
determine that the granting of a variance is appropriate, the board may
prescribe conditions and safeguards in conformity with this code. Violations of
such conditions and safeguards, when made a part of the terms for the approval
of the variance, shall be deemed a violation of this code.
   E.   Appeals From The Decision Of The Board Of Trustees: Any interested
landowner may appeal the decision of the board of trustees by appropriate legal
action to a court of record having legal jurisdiction thereof. Such appeal
shall be filed no more than thirty (30) days from the date of the board's
decision. (Ord. 271, 1-13-2009)
7-3-3-8: AMENDMENTS:
Henceforth, all changes in this section
7-3-3 will be made by resolution. (Ord. 171, 2-11-1988)
ARTICLE A. MEDICAL MARIJUANA
SECTION:
7-3A-1: Findings
7-3A-2: Definitions
7-3A-3: Licenses Prohibited
7-3A-4: Penalties And Remedies For Violations
7-3A-1: FINDINGS:
Findings under Colorado Revised Statutes 12-43.3-101 et seq.
   A.   The Colorado medical marijuana code clarifies Colorado law regarding
the scope and extent of amendment 20 to the Colorado constitution (article
XVIII, section 14).
   B.   Colorado Revised Statutes 12-43.3-310 of the Colorado medical marijuana
code specifically authorizes a municipality in part to prohibit the operation
of medical marijuana centers, optional premises cultivation operations, and
medical marijuana infused products manufacturers' licenses, based on local
government zoning, health, safety, and public welfare laws.
   C.   The board of trustees of the town of Simla has carefully considered the
provisions of the Colorado medical marijuana code, article XVIII, section 14 of
the Colorado constitution, and the impact of medical marijuana centers,
optional premises cultivation operations, and medical marijuana infused
products manufacturers' licenses on the health, safety, and welfare of the town
and the town's inhabitants, and has determined as an exercise of its local land
use authority that such medical marijuana centers, optional premises
cultivation operations, and medical marijuana infused products manufacturers'
licenses should be prohibited and not be located within the corporate limits of
the town. (Ord. 279, 11-15-2010)
7-3A-2: DEFINITIONS:
For purposes of this article, the following terms shall have the following
meanings:
MEDICAL MARIJUANA: Marijuana that is grown and sold for a purpose authorized by
section 14 of article XVIII of the Colorado constitution.
MEDICAL MARIJUANA CENTER: A person authorized to be licensed to operate a
business as described in the Colorado medical marijuana code that sells medical
marijuana to registered patients or primary caregivers as defined in section 14
of article XVIII of the Colorado constitution, but is not a primary caregiver,
and which a municipality is authorized to prohibit as a matter of law.
MEDICAL MARIJUANA INFUSED PRODUCTS MANUFACTURER: A person licensed pursuant to
the Colorado medical marijuana code to operate a business known as a medical
marijuana infused products manufacturing license, and which a municipality is
authorized to prohibit as a matter of law.
OPTIONAL PREMISES CULTIVATION OPERATION: A person licensed pursuant to the
Colorado medical marijuana code to operate a business known as an optional
premises grow facility in order to grow and cultivate marijuana for a purpose
authorized by section 14 of article XVIII of the Colorado constitution, and
which a municipality is authorized to prohibit as a matter of law.
PERSON: A natural person, partnership, association, company, corporation,
limited liability company, or organization, or a manager, agent, owner,
director, servant, officer, or employee thereof. (Ord. 279, 11-15-2010)
7-3A-3: LICENSES PROHIBITED:
Medical marijuana centers, optional premises cultivation operations, and
medical marijuana infused products manufacturers' licenses prohibited.
   A.   It is unlawful for any person to operate, cause to be operated, or
permit to be operated a medical marijuana center, optional premises cultivation
operation, or facility for which a medical marijuana infused products
manufacturers' license could otherwise be obtained, within the town, and all
such uses are hereby prohibited in any location within the town, or within any
area hereinafter annexed to the town. (Ord. 279, 11-15-2010)
7-3A-4: PENALTIES AND REMEDIES FOR VIOLATIONS:
In addition to those remedies set forth in this code, or ordinances, the town
is specifically authorized to seek an injunction, abatement, restitution, or
any other remedy necessary to prevent, enjoin, abate, or remove the violation
and may seek a fine of five hundred dollars ($500.00) for each day that the
subject property is in violation. (Ord. 279, 11-15-2010)
CHAPTER 4
MANUFACTURED HOMES
SECTION:
7-4-1: Definitions
7-4-2: Maximum Age Of Manufactured Homes Located Within The Town Of Simla
7-4-3: Minimum Lot Area, Site Dimensions, Setbacks, And Building Height
7-4-4: Installation/Placement
7-4-5: Manufactured Home Parks
7-4-6: Nonconforming Situations
7-4-1: DEFINITIONS:
MANUFACTURED HOME: Is a home built entirely in a factory setting under the
Federal Building Code administered by the Department of Housing and Urban
Development (HUD) and is constructed to meet the Federal Manufactured Home
Construction and Safety Standard Act of June 15, 1976, and any amendments
thereto. Manufactured homes generally come in single or two (2) section units
and their dimensions may range from eight feet (8') or more wide and forty feet
(40') or more long. Manufactured homes shall be placed on a basement, or other
permanent foundation, and may include multi-wide and expandable manufactured
homes. Manufactured homes do not include recreational vehicles, travel
trailers, motor homes, mobile homes, or modular housing.
MANUFACTURED HOME PARK: Is any parcel of ground upon which two (2) or more
manufactured homes are occupied as single family dwelling units.
MOBILE HOMES: Homes manufactured prior to June 15, 1976, which are constructed
off site with a permanent chassis designed for over the road transportation and
delivered to the home site in one or more sections. Mobile homes are not
allowed anywhere in the Town unless already located in the Town as a
nonconforming use as defined by section
7-4-5 of this chapter. Any mobile homes located within the Town as a
nonconforming use that are not installed on a permanent foundation shall meet
Colorado Division of Housing standards for support, blocking, leveling,
securing or anchoring, tie- downs, and appropriate skirting. Installation shall
be supervised and/or approved by the Town building inspector or a registered or
certified installer as approved by the Colorado Division of Housing.
MODULAR HOME: Is a residential home manufactured in a production facility and
built in two (2) or more sections in a controlled factory setting. The home is
then transported and assembled on location on a permanent foundation. Modular
homes are built to local and/or State Building Codes.
TINY HOUSE: Is a residential structure under five hundred (500) square feet in
size and which is placed permanently on a footer or foundation and is connected
to the Town water and waste water system separately from any other structure or
use on the premises.
This chapter shall also refer and pertain to those definitions set forth in
section
7-3-3-2 of this title. (Ord. 309, 1-9-2018)
7-4-2: MAXIMUM AGE OF MANUFACTURED HOMES LOCATED WITHIN THE TOWN OF SIMLA:
In addition to those matters required under Section
7-4-4, Installation / Placement, the person requesting a set-up permit shall
show, through documentation or other reliable means, that the subject
manufactured house was constructed or manufactured on a date not more than ten
(10) years prior to the date of the manufactured home’s initial placement or
relocation within the Town. (Ord. 322, 1-12-2021)
7-4-3: MINIMUM LOT AREA, SITE DIMENSIONS, SETBACKS, AND BUILDING HEIGHT:
Those requirements as set forth in sections
7-3-3-3,
7-3-3-4, and
7-3-3-5 of this title pertaining to minimum lot area, site dimensions, setbacks
and building heights for dwelling units and commercial buildings in general
shall also apply to manufactured homes and tiny homes except that the minimum
lot area for manufactured homes and tiny homes shall not be less than twenty
five feet (25') in width, from boundary line to boundary line, and not less
than one hundred forty feet (140') in depth, from boundary line to boundary
line. Those sites designated as manufactured home parks shall not be governed
by the setback requirements set forth in this section, but shall be subject to
the provisions set forth in section
7-4-4 of this chapter. (Ord. 309, 1-9-2018; amd. Ord. 322, 1-12-2021)
7-4-4: INSTALLATION/PLACEMENT:
No manufactured home shall be installed or placed within the Town boundaries
without the owner or installer thereof meeting all permitting and other
requirements established by the Town through its Building Codes, and other
relevant rules or regulations adopted from time to time by the Town Board.
Installation shall be supervised and/or approved by the Town building inspector
or a registered or certified installer as approved by the Colorado Division of
Housing in cooperation with the Town building inspector. No manufactured home
shall be occupied as a single family residence until the Town building
inspector is satisfied with the installation and has issued a Certificate of
Occupancy. (Ord. 309, 1-9-2018; amd. Ord. 322, 1-12-2021)
7-4-5: MANUFACTURED HOME PARKS:
All manufactured homes located within a “manufactured home park”, as defined
herein, shall be required to meet the following minimum dimensions and
setbacks:
   A.   Each manufactured home located within the manufactured home park shall
be located in a space no less than twenty five feet (25') in width and one
hundred forty feet (140') in length.
   B.   All manufactured homes located within the manufactured home park shall
be arranged in such a manner as to reflect a uniformity or continuity of
pattern.
   C.   Each manufactured home shall be connected to and charged for a separate
and distinct water and sewer connection (water and wastewater system
development charge) to the Town water and wastewater system.
   D.   Each manufactured home space shall have a landscaped and maintained
yard and shall also have a storage shed located upon the space.
   E.   All manufactured homes located in a manufactured home park, whether
single or double wide, shall conform to the building requirements of this Code
as set forth in section
7-1-3 of this title, as amended from time to time. (Ord. 309, 1-9-2018; amd.
Ord. 322, 1-12-2021)
7-4-6: NONCONFORMING SITUATIONS:
   A.   In those situations where as of the time of the enactment hereof, an
owner has situated upon his or her property a manufactured home and the
property upon which the manufactured home is located does not meet the minimum
lot area, site dimensions or setback requirements as set forth in section
7-4-3 of this chapter, or if the manufactured home is more than ten (10) years
of age, then the manufactured home may remain in its present location, as a
non-conforming use, subject to the following conditions:
      1.   The manufactured home must meet all Town regulations as
aforementioned in Section
7-4-4 of this Chapter and other relevant code sections.
      2.   If the manufactured home is ever replaced on a nonconforming lot,
the new manufactured home must comply with the maximum age requirement, and to
the extent practicable, with all appropriate Building Code, area, and setback
requirements.
      3.   If the subject manufactured home is not used as a dwelling or is
otherwise abandoned for a period of one year, the manufactured home must be
removed from its location and any future use of the property must be in strict
accordance with this Code.
   B.   In those situations where as of the time of the enactment of or
amendments made to section
7-4-5 of this chapter, the owner of a mobile home park has situated upon his or
her property one or more mobile homes which do not meet the requirements of
section
7-4-5 of this chapter, such owner shall comply with section
7-4-5 of this chapter to the extent practically possible. Otherwise, the owner
shall be allowed to maintain the individual lot, space, or mobile home for as
long as the subject mobile home is located thereon. However, upon the
particular lot or space becoming vacant for any length of time, a new mobile
home shall not be located on the owner’s property until the owner has complied
with the requirements of section
7-4-5 of this chapter. Further, upon the subject mobile home being vacant for a
period of one year or more the subject mobile home shall not be available for
further occupation until the owner has complied with all requirements of
section
7-4-5 of this chapter as to the lot, space, and mobile home in question. (Ord.
194, 7-10-1995; amd. Res. 90-1998, 10-6-1998; Ord. 232, 2-5-2002; Ord. 322, 1-
12-2021)
CHAPTER 5
ANNEXATION
SECTION:
7-5-1: Purpose
7-5-2: Responsibilities
7-5-3: Eligibility For Annexation
7-5-4: Who May Petition For Annexation
7-5-5: Required Annexation Impact Reports
7-5-6: Required Dedications
7-5-7: Preannexation Agreement
7-5-8: Annexation Agreement
7-5-9: Standards For Annexation
7-5-10: Initial Action
7-5-11: Town Board Action
7-5-12: General Development Plan
7-5-1: PURPOSE:
All annexations to the town of Simla utilizing the petition method will follow
the following process and standards to ensure that petitions are processed in
an orderly manner, that municipal services are adequate and available to the
property, that the costs of annexation are paid by the owners of the petitioned
property, and that all requirements of Colorado Revised Statutes 31-12-101 et
seq., are followed and fulfilled. (Ord. 214, 11-2-1999)
7-5-2: RESPONSIBILITIES:
The applicant is required to prepare all necessary documents in a professional
manner and submit all documents as required. The applicant is required, upon
the submittal of the application, to negotiate with the town or its designee
both a preannexation agreement and an annexation agreement as described herein.
The town board must approve a resolution for annexation prior to the holding of
a public hearing pursuant to state statute. In addition, the town clerk will
publish the resolution and the public notice of hearing for four (4) successive
weeks in the town's official newspaper. The first publication shall be at least
thirty (30) days prior to the public hearing before the town board. The town
clerk will also send a copy of the notice to the Elbert County Land Use
Department and to any special district and school district having territory
within the area to be annexed at least twenty five (25) days prior to the date
fixed for such hearing. (Ord. 214, 11-2-1999)
7-5-3: ELIGIBILITY FOR ANNEXATION:
Properties proposed for annexation must meet the following requirements:
   A.   Owners of more than fifty percent (50%) of the area to be annexed,
including streets and alleys, shall sign the petition for annexation.
   B.   Not less than one-sixth (1/6) of the outside perimeter of the area to
be annexed shall be contiguous to existing town limits.
   C.   No property owned in a separate tract shall be divided by the boundary
of the proposed annexation without consent of such property owner.
   D.   Should the state statutes concerning the annexation of real property be
amended subsequent to the adoption of this chapter or should it be determined
that this chapter does not comply with the state of Colorado statutes
concerning annexation of real property, then the state statutes shall control
as if fully set forth herein. (Ord. 214, 11-2-1999)
7-5-4: WHO MAY PETITION FOR ANNEXATION:
Only owners of the land or their legal representatives may petition the town
for annexation. Only the subject landowners may sign the petition. (Ord. 214,
11-2-1999)
7-5-5: REQUIRED ANNEXATION IMPACT REPORTS:
   A.   An annexation impact report is required for parcels larger than ten
(10) acres, unless the Elbert County officials and the town agree that the
report may be waived. If a report is required, it must be completed at least
twenty five (25) days before the hearing date and filed with the county twenty
(20) days before the hearing date. While it is the responsibility of the town
to prepare this report, the petitioners shall initiate and pay for such report
with the supervision of the town. Information from the petitioners for the
report would include:
      1.   The existing and proposed land use patterns in the areas to be
annexed;
      2.   The identity of existing districts within the area to be annexed;
      3.   The effect of the annexation upon the local public school district
including the estimated number of students generated and the capital
construction required to educate such students;
      4.   A statement of the town's plans for extending, financing and
providing municipal services within the area to be annexed;
      5.   A statement identifying all existing special districts within the
area to be annexed;
      6.   A map of the town and adjacent area showing the present and proposed
boundaries of the town in the vicinity of the proposed annexation and the
present streets, major trunk water lines, sewer interceptors and outfalls,
other utility lines and ditches and the proposed extension of such streets and
utility lines in the vicinity of the proposed annexation.
   B.   The town may also require that a fiscal impact report be prepared under
its direction and at the petitioner's expense. This report should provide the
information needed by the town to evaluate the fiscal costs and benefits of the
proposed annexation over a multi-year period.
   C.   The town staff or designee must also review the proposed annexation and
provide their evaluation and recommendations to the board prior to the
scheduled public hearing. The town engineer, at the petitioner's expense, shall
conduct an investigation and issue a report as to the town's capacity to meet
the proposed utility needs of the annexed property and shall review and assess
the topographical features of the proposed annexation as to drainage and other
relevant issues.
   D.   The town staff or designee shall refer the annexation impact report to
relevant review agencies, if any. (Ord. 214, 11-2-1999)
7-5-6: REQUIRED DEDICATIONS:
   A.   The petitioners must dedicate or agree to dedicate sufficient land and
rights of way to the town for public streets and alleys as set forth in the
standards and specifications of the town, and the town's master plan.
   B.   The petitioners must dedicate or agree to dedicate sufficient and
unobstructed rights of way for utility easements and storm drainage to serve
the proposed development. Petitioners also agree to pay utility development
fees and tap fees as developed by the town.
   C.   The petitioners must dedicate or agree to dedicate to the town, or pay
cash in lieu of at the time of platting, land to be used for public purposes of
at least six percent (6%) of all residential and two percent (2%) of all
nonresidential property proposed for annexation.
   D.   The petitioners must assign to the town all rights, title and interest
in any water rights associated with the property or in any and all water
located beneath the property to be annexed. The petitioners will expressly
consent to the conveyance of water rights and execute any deeds, statements, or
other documentation as required by the town to accomplish the transfer of water
rights to the town.
   E.   The petitioners will be required to construct all roads, utilities, and
other improvements at their sole expense and according to the requirements,
standards and specifications of the town. Connection of such improvements to
existing town systems and/or the dedication of such improvements to the town
shall be at the town's discretion and convenience. (Ord. 214, 11-2-1999)
7-5-7: PREANNEXATION AGREEMENT:
Petitioners will enter into a preannexation agreement to establish the amount
of deposit fees to be made by the petitioners as required to process the
annexation petition, annexation agreement and other review. (Ord. 214, 11-2-
1999)
7-5-8: ANNEXATION AGREEMENT:
Petitioners must engage in negotiations to develop a formal annexation
agreement that addresses timing and requirements of dedications outlined in
this chapter. The town will begin this process using a model annexation
agreement of its own making. (Ord. 214, 11-2-1999)
7-5-9: STANDARDS FOR ANNEXATION:
In considering a petition for annexation, the town board shall make findings of
facts and conclusions on the following standards for annexation:
   A.   The property to be annexed is a reasonable and logical extension of the
town, and compatible with the goals and intents of the town's comprehensive
plans or master plan.
   B.   Areas proposed for annexation shall not divide tracts in order to
prevent further annexation of adjoining parcels.
   C.   Areas proposed for annexation which, due to their configuration, cause
excessive police, fire, utility, and street cost may not be accepted.
   D.   The area proposed for annexation shall be located where street
extensions and water and sewer utility services are possible without undue
expense to the town. Where exceptional costs may be required in serving the
area proposed for annexation, financial arrangements to extend streets, water
or sewer mains shall be agreed upon prior to annexation.
   E.   Problems of storm drainage shall be considered prior to annexation to
ensure that flooding problems within and adjoining the area proposed for
annexation will not be increased by development of the tract.
   F.   Adequate water rights are provided to serve the proposed development on
the property proposed for annexation and/or fees in lieu of water rights
transfer are agreed to be paid.
   G.   Petitioner has deposited with the town monies in an amount determined
by the town board upon a preliminary review of the petition for annexation
according to the preannexation agreement. The amount of monies to be deposited
shall be solely in the discretion of the town board and shall be intended to
cover all costs to the town resulting from the petition for annexation
including review by the town engineer and town attorney. No petition for
annexation shall be deemed complete until such time as petitioner has deposited
an amount of money as determined by the town board and petitioner has agreed to
pay such additional sums to the town as may be required to cover unexpected
costs.
   H.   Any additional conditions or requirements which the town board deems
necessary for the proper evaluation of the petition. (Ord. 214, 11-2-1999)
7-5-10: INITIAL ACTION:
   A.   At the first regular town board meeting following the filing of a
petition or application for annexation, the town board shall appoint town staff
or another designee to commence negotiations with the applicant and the
preparation of a preannexation agreement and an annexation agreement as
described herein. The town staff or designee shall review and discuss with the
applicant the following:
      1.   The accuracy of annexation petitions and maps;
      2.   The land use allocations, circulation plans, and proposed utility
systems proposed by applicant;
      3.   The proposed dedications;
      4.   The completeness and accuracy of submittal documents; and
      5.   The referral comments concerning the annexation and annexation
impact report. (Ord. 214, 11-2-1999)
7-5-11: TOWN BOARD ACTION:
The town board, after receiving all necessary recommendations, shall follow the
procedure required by the state enabling statutes to include the following:
   A.   Following receipt of the town staff or designee recommendations, the
town board, if appropriate, will adopt a resolution finding the petition to be
in substantial compliance with the statutes. If the petition is signed by the
owners of one hundred percent (100%) of the area proposed for annexation, the
board may annex the territory by resolution and ordinance after notice and a
public hearing and, further, without an election unless additional terms and
conditions are to be imposed. The board will set the date, time and place for a
public hearing to determine if the annexation meets the requirements of
Colorado Revised Statutes 31-12-104 and 31-12-105. This hearing will be held
not less than thirty (30) days nor more than sixty (60) days after the
effective date of the resolution setting the hearing.
   B.   On the appointed date and time, the town board will hold the public
hearing. The petitioners will present evidence in support of the petition. The
town staff or designee will testify as to:
      1.   The validity of the surveys and legal descriptions of annexation
maps;
      2.   The one-sixth (1/6) boundary contiguity requirement;
      3.   That no land held in identical ownership is to be divided except
with the consent of the landowners;
      4.   That no tract of twenty (20) acres or more having two hundred
thousand dollars ($200,000.00) in valuation is included without the consent of
the landowners;
      5.   That the entire width of perimeter streets or alleys will be
annexed;
      6.   That no proceedings are pending to annex the land to another town or
city; and
      7.   That this annexation will not result in extending the town's
boundaries more than three (3) miles in any direction in any one year.
Any person may appear at the hearing and present evidence on any matter related
to the annexation petition as determined by the town board. All proceedings
must be recorded.
   C.   At the conclusion of the hearing, the town board will adopt a
resolution containing the findings of facts and conclusions, including:
      1.   Whether or not the requirements of Colorado Revised Statutes 31-12-
104 and 31-12-105, and of this chapter have been met;
      2.   Whether or not additional terms and conditions are to be imposed;
and
      3.   Whether or not an election is required either as a result of a
petition for election or the imposition of additional terms and conditions.
If the town board finds that the area proposed for annexation does not comply
with the items above, the annexation proceeding will be terminated.
   D.   If the town board finds the annexation to be in compliance with the
items above and no additional terms and conditions are to be imposed, the town
board immediately may pass the annexation ordinance. If additional terms and
conditions are to be imposed which are not agreed to voluntarily and in writing
by the landowners, an election must be held.
   E.   After passage of the annexation ordinance, the area is annexed as of
the effective date of the ordinance. The effective date for taxation will be
the ensuing January 1.
   F.   After final passage of the annexation ordinance, the town will file one
copy of the annexation map with the original of the annexation ordinance in the
office of the town clerk and file for recording two (2) certified copies of the
annexation ordinance and map of the area annexed containing a legal description
of such area with the County Clerk and Recorder. The petitioners are
responsible for the cost of preparing such maps and plats as required and for
the recording of the same with the Elbert County Clerk and Recorder. The town
will ask the County Clerk to forward one copy of the map and ordinance to the
Division of Local Government in the Colorado Department of Local Affairs. (Ord.
214, 11-2-1999)
7-5-12: GENERAL DEVELOPMENT PLAN:
A general development plan must be prepared describing the desired use of the
property after annexation. Such general development plan shall be prepared in
conjunction with and may be incorporated into the annexation agreement. The
general development plan is required to determine the development intentions of
the petitioners and to use as a basis for the negotiation of an annexation
agreement. (Ord. 214, 11-2-1999)
CHAPTER 6
FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
SECTION:
7-6-1: Title And Purpose
7-6-2: Definitions
7-6-3: General Provisions
7-6-4: Administration
7-6-5: Provisions For Flood Hazard Reduction
7-6-1: TITLE AND PURPOSE:
   A.   Statutory Authorization: The legislature of the state of Colorado has,
in title 29, article 20 of the Colorado Revised Statutes, delegated the
responsibility of local governmental units to adopt regulations designed to
minimize flood losses. Therefore, the Simla board of trustees of the town of
Simla, Colorado, does hereby adopt the following floodplain management
regulations.
   B.   Findings Of Fact:
      1.   The flood hazard areas of the town of Simla are subject to periodic
inundation, which can result in loss of life and property, health and safety
hazards, disruption of commerce and governmental services, and extraordinary
public expenditures for flood protection and relief, all of which adversely
affect the health, safety and general welfare of the public.
      2.   These flood losses are created by the cumulative effect of
obstructions in floodplains which cause an increase in flood heights and
velocities, and by the occupancy of flood hazard areas by uses vulnerable to
floods and hazardous to other lands because they are inadequately elevated,
floodproofed or otherwise protected from flood damage.
   C.   Statement Of Purpose: It is the purpose of this chapter to promote
public health, safety and general welfare and to minimize public and private
losses due to flood conditions in specific areas by provisions designed to:
      1.   Protect human life and health;
      2.   Minimize expenditure of public money for costly flood control
projects;
      3.   Minimize the need for rescue and relief efforts associated with
flooding and generally undertaken at the expense of the general public;
      4.   Minimize prolonged business interruptions;
      5.   Minimize damage to critical facilities, infrastructure and other
public facilities such as water, sewer and gas mains; electric and
communications stations; and streets and bridges located in floodplains;
      6.   Help maintain a stable tax base by providing for the sound use and
development of flood prone areas in such a manner as to minimize future flood
blight areas; and
      7.   Ensure that potential buyers are notified that property is located
in a flood hazard area.
   D.   Methods Of Reducing Flood Losses: In order to accomplish its purposes,
this chapter uses the following methods:
      1.   Restrict or prohibit uses that are dangerous to health, safety or
property in times of flood, or cause excessive increases in flood heights or
velocities;
      2.   Require that uses vulnerable to floods, including facilities which
serve such uses, be protected against flood damage at the time of initial
construction;
      3.   Control the alteration of natural floodplains, stream channels, and
natural protective barriers, which are involved in the accommodation of
floodwaters;
      4.   Control filling, grading, dredging and other development which may
increase flood damage;
      5.   Prevent or regulate the construction of flood barriers which will
unnaturally divert floodwaters or which may increase flood hazards to other
lands. (Res. 192-2013, 8-13-2013)
7-6-2: DEFINITIONS:
Unless specifically defined below, words or phrases used in this chapter shall
be interpreted to give them the meanings they have in common usage and to give
this chapter its most reasonable application.
ADDITION: Any activity that expands the enclosed footprint or increases the
square footage of an existing structure.
ALLUVIAL FAN FLOODING: A fan shaped sediment deposit formed by a stream that
flows from a steep mountain valley or gorge onto a plain or the junction of a
tributary stream with the main stream. Alluvial fans contain active stream
channels and boulder bars, and recently abandoned channels. Alluvial fans are
predominantly formed by alluvial deposits and are modified by infrequent sheet
flood, channel avulsions and other stream processes.
AREA OF SHALLOW FLOODING: A designated zone AO or AH on a community's flood
insurance rate map (FIRM) with a one percent (1%) chance or greater annual
chance of flooding to an average depth of one to three feet (1 - 3') where a
clearly defined channel does not exist, where the path of flooding is
unpredictable and where velocity flow may be evident. Such flooding is
characterized by ponding or sheet flow.
BASE FLOOD ELEVATION (BFE): The elevation shown on a FEMA flood insurance rate
map for zones AE, AH, A1-A30, AR, AR/A, AR/AE, AR/A1-A30, AR/AH, AR/AO, V1-V30,
and VE that indicates the water surface elevation resulting from a flood that
has a one percent (1%) chance of equaling or exceeding that level in any given
year.
BASEMENT: Any area of a building having its floor subgrade (below ground level)
on all sides.
CHANNEL: The physical confine of stream or waterway consisting of a bed and
stream banks, existing in a variety of geometries.
CHANNELIZATION: The artificial creation, enlargement or realignment of a stream
channel.
CODE OF FEDERAL REGULATIONS (CFR): The codification of the general and
permanent rules published in the "Federal Register" by the executive
departments and agencies of the federal government. It is divided into fifty
(50) titles that represent broad areas subject to federal regulation.
COMMUNITY: Any political subdivision in the state of Colorado that has
authority to adopt and enforce floodplain management regulations through
zoning, including, but not limited to, cities, towns, unincorporated areas in
the counties, Indian tribes and drainage and flood control districts.
CONDITIONAL LETTER OF MAP REVISION (CLOMR): FEMA's comment on a proposed
project, which does not revise an effective floodplain map, that would, upon
construction, affect the hydrologic or hydraulic characteristics of a flooding
source and thus result in the modification of the existing regulatory
floodplain.
CRITICAL FACILITY: A structure or related infrastructure, but not the land on
which it is situated, as specified in subsection 7-6-5H of this chapter, that
if flooded may result in significant hazards to public health and safety or
interrupt essential services and operations for the community at any time
before, during and after a flood. See subsection
7-6-5H of this chapter.
DFIRM DATABASE: Database (usually spreadsheets containing data and analyses
that accompany DFIRMs). The FEMA mapping specifications and guidelines outline
requirements for the development and maintenance of DFIRM databases.
DEVELOPMENT: Any manmade change in improved and unimproved real estate,
including, but not limited to, buildings or other structures, mining, dredging,
filling, grading, paving, excavation or drilling operations or storage of
equipment or materials.
DIGITAL FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (DFIRM): FEMA digital floodplain map. These
digital maps serve as "regulatory floodplain maps" for insurance and floodplain
management purposes.
ELEVATED BUILDING: A nonbasement building: a) built, in the case of a building
in zones A1-30, AE, A, A99, AO, AH, B, C, X, and D, to have the top of the
elevated floor above the ground level by means of pilings, columns (posts and
piers), or shear walls parallel to the flow of the water and b) adequately
anchored so as not to impair the structural integrity of the building during a
flood of up to the magnitude of the base flood. In the case of zones A1-30, AE,
A, A99, AO, AH, B, C, X, and D, "elevated building" also includes a building
elevated by means of fill or solid foundation perimeter walls with openings
sufficient to facilitate the unimpeded movement of floodwaters.
EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION: A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including, at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed before the effective date
of the floodplain management regulations adopted by a community.
EXPANSION TO AN EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION: The preparation
of additional sites by the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including the installation of
utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site grading or the
pouring of concrete pads).
FEMA: Federal emergency management agency, the agency responsible for
administering the national flood insurance program.
FEDERAL REGISTER: The official daily publication for rules, proposed rules, and
notices of federal agencies and organizations, as well as executive orders and
other presidential documents.
500-YEAR FLOOD: A flood having a recurrence interval that has a 0.2 percent
chance of being equaled or exceeded during any given year (0.2 percent chance
annual flood). The term does not imply that the flood will necessarily happen
once every five hundred (500) years.
500-YEAR FLOODPLAIN: The area of land susceptible to being inundated as a
result of the occurrence of a 500-year flood.
FLOOD CONTROL STRUCTURE: A physical structure designed and built expressly or
partially for the purpose of reducing, redirecting, or guiding flood flows
along a particular waterway. These specialized flood modifying works are those
constructed in conformance with sound engineering standards.
FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (FIRM): An official map of a community, on which the
federal emergency management agency has delineated both the special flood
hazard areas and the risk premium zones applicable to the community.
FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY (FIS): The official report provided by the federal
emergency management agency. The report contains the flood insurance rate map
as well as flood profiles for studied flooding sources that can be used to
determine base flood elevations for some areas.
FLOOD OR FLOODING: A general and temporary condition of partial or complete
inundation of normally dry land areas from:
   A.   The overflow of water from channels and reservoir spillways;
   B.   The unusual and rapid accumulation or runoff of surface waters from any
source; or
   C.   Mudslides or mudflows that occur from excess surface water that is
combined with mud or other debris that is sufficiently fluid so as to flow over
the surface of normally dry land areas (such as earth carried by a current of
water and deposited along the path of the current).
FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR: The community official designated by title to
administer and enforce the floodplain management regulations.
FLOODPLAIN DEVELOPMENT PERMIT: A permit required before construction or
development begins within any special flood hazard area (SFHA). If FEMA has not
defined the SFHA within a community, the community shall require permits for
all proposed construction or other development in the community including the
placement of manufactured homes, so that it may determine whether such
construction or other development is proposed within flood prone areas. Permits
are required to ensure that proposed development projects meet the requirements
of the NFIP and this chapter.
FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT: The operation of an overall program of corrective and
preventive measures for reducing flood damage, including, but not limited to,
emergency preparedness plans, flood control works and floodplain management
regulations.
FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT REGULATIONS: Zoning ordinances, subdivision regulations,
building codes, health regulations, special purpose ordinances (such as a
floodplain ordinance, grading ordinance and erosion control ordinance) and
other applications of police power. The term describes such state or local
regulations, in any combination thereof, which provide standards for the
purpose of flood damage prevention and reduction.
FLOODPLAIN OR FLOOD PRONE AREA: Any land area susceptible to being inundated as
the result of a flood, including the area of land over which floodwater would
flow from the spillway of a reservoir.
FLOODPROOFING: Any combination of structural and/or nonstructural additions,
changes, or adjustments to structures which reduce or eliminate flood damage to
real estate or improved real property, water and sanitary facilities,
structures and their contents.
FLOODWAY (REGULATORY FLOODWAY): The channel of a river or other watercourse and
adjacent land areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the base flood
without cumulatively increasing the water surface elevation more than a
designated height. The Colorado statewide standard for the designated height to
be used for all newly studied reaches shall be one-half foot (1/2') (6 inches).
Letters of map revision to existing floodway delineations may continue to use
the floodway criteria in place at the time of the existing floodway
delineation.
FREEBOARD: The vertical distance in feet above a predicted water surface
elevation intended to provide a margin of safety to compensate for unknown
factors that could contribute to flood heights greater than the height
calculated for a selected size flood such as debris blockage of bridge openings
and the increased runoff due to urbanization of the watershed.
FUNCTIONALLY DEPENDENT USE: A use which cannot perform its intended purpose
unless it is located or carried out in close proximity to water. The term
includes only docking facilities, port facilities that are necessary for the
loading and unloading of cargo or passengers, and shipbuilding and ship repair
facilities, but does not include long term storage or related manufacturing
facilities.
HIGHEST ADJACENT GRADE: The highest natural elevation of the ground surface
prior to construction next to the proposed walls of a structure.
HISTORIC STRUCTURE: Any structure that is:
   A.   Listed individually in the national register of historic places (a
listing maintained by the department of interior) or preliminarily determined
by the secretary of the interior as meeting the requirements for individual
listing on the national register;
   B.   Certified or preliminarily determined by the secretary of the interior
as contributing to the historical significance of a registered historic
district or a district preliminarily determined by the secretary to qualify as
a registered historic district;
   C.   Individually listed on a state inventory of historic places in states
with historic preservation programs which have been approved by the secretary
of interior; or
   D.   Individually listed on a local inventory of historic places in
communities with historic preservation programs that have been certified
either:
      1.   By an approved state program as determined by the secretary of the
interior; or
      2.   Directly by the secretary of the interior in states without approved
programs.
LETTER OF MAP REVISION (LOMR): FEMA's official revision of an effective flood
insurance rate map (FIRM), or flood boundary and floodway map (FBFM), or both.
LOMRs are generally based on the implementation of physical measures that
affect the hydrologic or hydraulic characteristics of a flooding source and
thus result in the modification of the existing regulatory floodway, the
effective base flood elevations (BFEs), or the special flood hazard area
(SFHA).
LETTER OF MAP REVISION BASED ON FILL (LOMR-F): FEMA's modification of the
special flood hazard area (SFHA) shown on the flood insurance rate map (FIRM)
based on the placement of fill outside the existing regulatory floodway.
LEVEE: A manmade embankment, usually earthen, designed and constructed in
accordance with sound engineering practices to contain, control, or divert the
flow of water so as to provide protection from temporary flooding. For a levee
structure to be reflected on the FEMA FIRMs as providing flood protection, the
levee structure must meet the requirements set forth in 44 CFR 65.10.
LEVEE SYSTEM: A flood protection system which consists of a levee, or levees,
and associated structures, such as closure and drainage devices, which are
constructed and operated in accordance with sound engineering practices.
LOWEST FLOOR: The lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area (including
basement). Any floor used for living purposes which includes working, storage,
sleeping, cooking and eating, or recreation or any combination thereof. This
includes any floor that could be converted to such a use such as a basement or
crawl space. The lowest floor is a determinant for the flood insurance premium
for a building, home or business. An unfinished or flood resistant enclosure,
usable solely for parking of vehicles, building access or storage in an area
other than a basement area is not considered a building's lowest floor;
provided that such enclosure is not built so as to render the structure in
violation of the applicable nonelevation design requirement of section 60.3 of
the national flood insurance program regulations.
MANUFACTURED HOME: A structure transportable in one or more sections, which is
built on a permanent chassis and is designed for use with or without a
permanent foundation when connected to the required utilities. The term
"manufactured home" does not include a "recreational vehicle".
MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION: A parcel (or contiguous parcels) of land
divided into two (2) or more manufactured home lots for rent or sale.
MATERIAL SAFETY DATA SHEET (MSDS): A form with data regarding the properties of
a particular substance. An important component of product stewardship and
workplace safety, it is intended to provide workers and emergency personnel
with procedures for handling or working with that substance in a safe manner,
and includes information such as physical data (melting point, boiling point,
flashpoint, etc.), toxicity, health effects, first aid, reactivity, storage,
disposal, protective equipment, and spill handling procedures.
MEAN SEA LEVEL: For purposes of the national flood insurance program, the North
American vertical datum (NAVD) of 1988 or other datum, to which base flood
elevations shown on a community's flood insurance rate map are referenced.
NATIONAL FLOOD INSURANCE PROGRAM (NFIP): FEMA's program of flood insurance
coverage and floodplain management administered in conjunction with the Robert
T. Stafford relief and emergency assistance act. The NFIP has applicable
federal regulations promulgated in title 44 of the code of federal regulations.
The U.S. congress established the NFIP in 1968 with the passage of the national
flood insurance act of 1968.
NEW MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION: A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed on or after the effective
date of floodplain management regulations adopted by a community.
NO RISE CERTIFICATION: A record of the results of an engineering analysis
conducted to determine whether a project will increase flood heights in a
floodway. A no rise certification must be supported by technical data and
signed by a registered Colorado professional engineer. The supporting technical
data should be based on the standard step backwater computer model used to
develop the 100-year floodway shown on the flood insurance rate map (FIRM) or
flood boundary and floodway map (FBFM).
100-YEAR FLOOD: A flood having a recurrence interval that has a one percent
(1%) chance of being equaled or exceeded during any given year (1 percent
annual chance flood). The terms "one hundred-year flood" and "one percent
chance flood" are synonymous with the term "100-year flood". The term does not
imply that the flood will necessarily happen once every one hundred (100)
years.
100-YEAR FLOODPLAIN: The area of land susceptible to being inundated as a
result of the occurrence of a 100-year flood.
PHYSICAL MAP REVISION (PMR): FEMA's action whereby one or more map panels are
physically revised and republished. A PMR is used to change flood risk zones,
floodplain and/or floodway delineations, flood elevations, and/or planimetric
features.
RECREATIONAL VEHICLE: A vehicle which is:
   A.   Built on a single chassis;
   B.   Four hundred (400) square feet or less when measured at the largest
horizontal projections;
   C.   Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light duty
truck; and
   D.   Designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling but as temporary
living quarters for recreational, camping, travel, or seasonal use.
SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA: The land in the floodplain within a community
subject to a one percent (1%) or greater chance of flooding in any given year,
i.e., the 100-year floodplain.
START OF CONSTRUCTION: The date the building permit was issued, including
substantial improvements, provided the actual start of construction, repair,
reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition, placement, or other improvement was
within one hundred eighty (180) days of the permit date. The actual start means
either the first placement of permanent construction of a structure on a site,
such as the pouring of slab or footings, the installation of piles, the
construction of columns, or any work beyond the stage of excavation; or the
placement of a manufactured home on a foundation. Permanent construction does
not include land preparation, such as clearing, grading and filling; nor does
it include the installation of streets and/or walkways; nor does it include
excavation for basement, footings, piers or foundations or the erection of
temporary forms; nor does it include the installation on the property of
accessory buildings, such as garages or sheds not occupied as dwelling units or
not part of the main structure. For a substantial improvement, the actual start
of construction means the first alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor, or
other structural part of a building, whether or not that alteration affects the
external dimensions of the building.
STRUCTURE: A walled and roofed building, including a gas or liquid storage
tank, which is principally above ground, as well as a manufactured home.
SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE: Damage of any origin sustained by a structure whereby the
cost of restoring the structure to its before damaged condition would equal or
exceed fifty percent (50%) of the market value of the structure just prior to
when the damage occurred.
SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT: Any reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition, or other
improvement of a structure, the cost of which equals or exceeds fifty percent
(50%) of the market value of the structure before "start of construction" of
the improvement. The value of the structure shall be determined by the local
jurisdiction having land use authority in the area of interest. This includes
structures which have incurred "substantial damage", regardless of the actual
repair work performed. The term does not, however, include either:
   A.   Any project for improvement of a structure to correct existing
violations of state or local health, sanitary, or safety code specifications
which have been identified by the local code enforcement official and which are
the minimum necessary conditions; or
   B.   Any alteration of a "historic structure" provided that the alteration
will not preclude the structure's continued designation as a "historic
structure".
THRESHOLD PLANNING QUANTITY (TPQ): A quantity designated for each chemical on
the list of extremely hazardous substances that triggers notification by
facilities to the state that such facilities are subject to emergency planning
requirements.
VARIANCE: A grant of relief to a person from the requirement of this chapter
when specific enforcement would result in unnecessary hardship. A variance,
therefore, permits construction or development in a manner otherwise prohibited
by this chapter. (For full requirements see section 60.6 of the national flood
insurance program regulations.)
VIOLATION: The failure of a structure or other development to be fully
compliant with the community's floodplain management regulations. A structure
or other development without the elevation certificate, other certifications,
or other evidence of compliance required in section 60.3(b)(5), (c)(4), (c)
(10), (d)(3), (e)(2), (e)(4), or (e)(5) is presumed to be in violation until
such time as that documentation is provided.
WATER SURFACE ELEVATION: The height, in relation to the North American vertical
datum (NAVD) of 1988 (or other datum, where specified), of floods of various
magnitudes and frequencies in the floodplains of coastal or riverine areas.
(Res. 192-2013, 8-13-2013)
7-6-3: GENERAL PROVISIONS:
   A.   Lands To Which This Chapter Applies: This chapter shall apply to all
special flood hazard areas and areas removed from the floodplain by the
issuance of a FEMA letter of map revision based on fill (LOMR-F) within the
jurisdiction of town of Simla, Colorado.
   B.   Basis For Establishing The Special Flood Hazard Area: The special flood
hazard areas identified by the federal emergency management agency in a
scientific and engineering report entitled, "The Flood Insurance Study For
Elbert County, Colorado And Incorporated Areas" dated March 17, 2011, with
accompanying flood insurance rate maps and/or flood boundary-floodway maps
(FIRM and/or FBFM) and any revisions thereto are hereby adopted by reference
and declared to be a part of this chapter. These special flood hazard areas
identified by the FIS and attendant mapping are the minimum area of
applicability of this chapter and may be supplemented by studies designated and
approved by the Simla board of trustees. The floodplain administrator shall
keep a copy of the flood insurance study (FIS), DFIRMs, FIRMs and/or FBFMs on
file and available for public inspection.
   C.   Establishment Of Floodplain Development Permit: A floodplain
development permit shall be required to ensure conformance with the provisions
of this chapter.
   D.   Compliance: No structure or land shall hereafter be located, altered,
or have its use changed within the special flood hazard area without full
compliance with the terms of this chapter and other applicable regulations.
Nothing herein shall prevent the Simla board of trustees from taking such
lawful action as is necessary to prevent or remedy any violation. These
regulations meet the minimum requirements as set forth by the Colorado water
conservation board and the national flood insurance program.
   E.   Abrogation And Greater Restrictions: This chapter is not intended to
repeal, abrogate, or impair any existing easements, covenants, or deed
restrictions. However, where this chapter and another ordinance, easement,
covenant, or deed restriction conflict or overlap, whichever imposes the more
stringent restrictions shall prevail.
   F.   Interpretation: In the interpretation and application of this chapter,
all provisions shall be:
      1.   Considered as minimum requirements;
      2.   Liberally construed in favor of the governing body; and
      3.   Deemed neither to limit nor repeal any other powers granted under
state statutes.
   G.   Warning And Disclaimer Of Liability: The degree of flood protection
required by this chapter is considered reasonable for regulatory purposes and
is based on scientific and engineering considerations. On rare occasions
greater floods can and will occur and flood heights may be increased by manmade
or natural causes. This chapter does not imply that land outside the special
flood hazard area or uses permitted within such areas will be free from
flooding or flood damages. This chapter shall not create liability on the part
of the community or any official or employee thereof for any flood damages that
result from reliance on this chapter or any administrative decision lawfully
made thereunder.
   H.   Severability: This chapter and the various parts thereof are hereby
declared to be severable. Should any section of this chapter be declared by the
courts to be unconstitutional or invalid, such decision shall not affect the
validity of the chapter as a whole, or any portion thereof other than the
section so declared to be unconstitutional or invalid. (Res. 192-2013, 8-13-
2013)
7-6-4: ADMINISTRATION:
   A.   Designation Of The Floodplain Administrator: The Simla building
inspector is hereby appointed as floodplain administrator to administer,
implement and enforce the provisions of this chapter and other appropriate
sections of 44 CFR (national flood insurance program regulations) pertaining to
floodplain management.
   B.   Duties And Responsibilities Of The Floodplain Administrator: Duties and
responsibilities of the floodplain administrator shall include, but not be
limited to, the following:
      1.   Maintain and hold open for public inspection all records pertaining
to the provisions of this chapter, including the actual elevation (in relation
to mean sea level) of the lowest floor (including basement) of all new or
substantially improved structures and any floodproofing certificate required by
subsection C of this section.
      2.   Review, approve, or deny all applications for floodplain development
permits required by adoption of this chapter.
      3.   Review floodplain development permit applications to determine
whether a proposed building site, including the placement of manufactured
homes, will be reasonably safe from flooding.
      4.   Review permits for proposed development to assure that all necessary
permits have been obtained from those federal, state or local governmental
agencies (including section 404 of the federal water pollution control act
amendments of 1972, 33 USC 1334) from which prior approval is required.
      5.   Inspect all development at appropriate times during the period of
construction to ensure compliance with all provisions of this chapter,
including proper elevation of the structure.
      6.   Where interpretation is needed as to the exact location of the
boundaries of the special flood hazard area (for example, where there appears
to be a conflict between a mapped boundary and actual field conditions) the
floodplain administrator shall make the necessary interpretation.
      7.   When base flood elevation data has not been provided in accordance
with subsection 7-6-3B of this chapter, the floodplain administrator shall
obtain, review and reasonably utilize any base flood elevation data and
floodway data available from a federal, state, or other source, in order to
administer the provisions of section
7-6-5 of this chapter.
      8.   For waterways with base flood elevations for which a regulatory
floodway has not been designated, no new construction, substantial
improvements, or other development (including fill) shall be permitted within
zones A1-30 and AE on the community's FIRM, unless it is demonstrated that the
cumulative effect of the proposed development, when combined with all other
existing and anticipated development, will not increase the water surface
elevation of the base flood more than one-half foot (1/2') at any point within
the community.
      9.   Under the provisions of 44 CFR chapter 1, section 65.12 of the
national flood insurance program regulations, a community may approve certain
development in zones A1-30, AE, AH, on the community's FIRM which increases the
water surface elevation of the base flood by more than one-half foot (1/2'),
provided that the community first applies for a conditional FIRM revision
through FEMA (conditional letter of map revision), fulfills the requirements
for such revisions as established under the provisions of section 65.12 and
receives FEMA approval.
      10.   Notify, in riverine situations, adjacent communities and the state
coordinating agency, which is the Colorado water conservation board, prior to
any alteration or relocation of a watercourse, and submit evidence of such
notification to FEMA.
      11.   Ensure that the flood carrying capacity within the altered or
relocated portion of any watercourse is maintained.
   C.   Permit Procedures:
      1.   Application for a floodplain development permit shall be presented
to the floodplain administrator on forms furnished by him/her and may include,
but not be limited to, plans in duplicate drawn to scale showing the location,
dimensions, and elevation of proposed landscape alterations, existing and
proposed structures, including the placement of manufactured homes, and the
location of the foregoing in relation to special flood hazard areas.
Additionally, the following information is required:
         a.   Elevation (in relation to mean sea level), of the lowest floor
(including basement) of all new and substantially improved structures;
         b.   Elevation in relation to mean sea level to which any
nonresidential structure shall be floodproofed;
         c.   A certificate from a registered Colorado professional engineer or
architect that the nonresidential floodproofed structure shall meet the
floodproofing criteria of subsection 7-6-5B2 of this chapter;
         d.   Description of the extent to which any watercourse or natural
drainage will be altered or relocated as a result of proposed development;
         e.   Maintain a record of all such information in accordance with
subsection B of this section.
      2.   Approval or denial of a floodplain development permit by the
floodplain administrator shall be based on all of the provisions of this
chapter and the following relevant factors:
         a.   The danger to life and property due to flooding or erosion
damage;
         b.   The susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents to
flood damage and the effect of such damage on the individual owner;
         c.   The danger that materials may be swept onto other lands to the
injury of others;
         d.   The compatibility of the proposed use with existing and
anticipated development;
         e.   The safety of access to the property in times of flood for
ordinary and emergency vehicles;
         f.   The costs of providing governmental services during and after
flood conditions including maintenance and repair of streets and bridges, and
public utilities and facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical and water
systems;
         g.   The expected heights, velocity, duration, rate of rise and
sediment transport of the floodwaters and the effects of wave action, if
applicable, expected at the site;
         h.   The necessity to the facility of a waterfront location, where
applicable;
         i.   The availability of alternative locations, not subject to
flooding or erosion damage, for the proposed use;
         j.   The relationship of the proposed use to the comprehensive plan
for that area.
   D.   Variance Procedures:
      1.   Appeal Board To Hear Requests: The appeal board, as established by
the community, shall hear and render judgment on requests for variances from
the requirements of this chapter.
      2.   Appeal Board To Hear Appeals: The appeal board shall hear and render
judgment on an appeal only when it is alleged there is an error in any
requirement, decision, or determination made by the floodplain administrator in
the enforcement or administration of this chapter.
      3.   Aggrieved By Decision Of Appeal Board: Any person or persons
aggrieved by the decision of the appeal board may appeal such decision in the
courts of competent jurisdiction.
      4.   Records; Reports: The floodplain administrator shall maintain a
record of all actions involving an appeal and shall report variances to the
federal emergency management agency upon request.
      5.   Historic Structures: Variances may be issued for the reconstruction,
rehabilitation or restoration of structures listed on the national register of
historic places or the state inventory of historic places, without regard to
the procedures set forth in the remainder of this chapter.
      6.   New Construction: Variances may be issued for new construction and
substantial improvements to be erected on a lot of one-half (1/2) acre or less
in size contiguous to and surrounded by lots with existing structures
constructed below the base flood level, providing the relevant factors in
subsection C of this section have been fully considered. As the lot size
increases beyond the one-half (1/2) acre, the technical justification required
for issuing the variance increases.
      7.   Conditions Of Variance: Upon consideration of the factors noted
above and the intent of this chapter, the appeal board may attach such
conditions to the granting of variances as it deems necessary to further the
purpose and objectives of this chapter as stated in subsection 7-6-1C of this
chapter.
      8.   Designated Floodways: Variances shall not be issued within any
designated floodway if any increase in flood levels during the base flood
discharge would result.
      9.   Repair Or Rehabilitation Of Historic Structures: Variances may be
issued for the repair or rehabilitation of historic structures upon a
determination that the proposed repair or rehabilitation will not preclude the
structure's continued designation as a historic structure and the variance is
the minimum necessary to preserve the historic character and design of the
structure.
      10.   Prerequisites For Granting Variances:
         a.   Variances shall only be issued upon a determination that the
variance is the minimum necessary, considering the flood hazard, to afford
relief.
         b.   Variances shall only be issued upon:
            (1)   Showing a good and sufficient cause;
            (2)   A determination that failure to grant the variance would
result in exceptional hardship to the applicant; and
            (3)   A determination that the granting of a variance will not
result in increased flood heights, additional threats to public safety,
extraordinary public expense, create nuisances, cause fraud on or victimization
of the public, or conflict with existing local laws or ordinances.
         c.   Any applicant to whom a variance is granted shall be given
written notice that the structure will be permitted to be built with the lowest
floor elevation below the base flood elevation, and that the cost of flood
insurance will be commensurate with the increased risk resulting from the
reduced lowest floor elevation.
      11.   Functionally Dependent Use: Variances may be issued by a community
for new construction and substantial improvements and for other development
necessary for the conduct of a functionally dependent use provided that:
         a.   The criteria outlined in subsections D1 through D9 of this
section are met, and
         b.   The structure or other development is protected by methods that
minimize flood damages during the base flood and create no additional threats
to public safety.
   E.   Penalties For Noncompliance: No structure or land shall hereafter be
constructed, located, extended, converted, or altered without full compliance
with the terms of this chapter and other applicable regulations. Violation of
the provisions of this chapter by failure to comply with any of its
requirements (including violations of conditions and safeguards established in
connection with conditions) shall constitute a misdemeanor.
Any person who violates this chapter or fails to comply with any of its
requirements shall upon conviction thereof be fined or imprisoned as provided
by the laws of Simla. Nothing herein contained shall prevent Simla from taking
such other lawful action as is necessary to prevent or remedy any violation.
(Res. 192-2013, 8-13-2013)
7-6-5: PROVISIONS FOR FLOOD HAZARD REDUCTION:
   A.   General Standards: In all special flood hazard areas the following
provisions are required for all new construction and substantial improvements:
      1.   All new construction or substantial improvements shall be designed
(or modified) and adequately anchored to prevent flotation, collapse or lateral
movement of the structure resulting from hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads,
including the effects of buoyancy;
      2.   All new construction or substantial improvements shall be
constructed by methods and practices that minimize flood damage;
      3.   All new construction or substantial improvements shall be
constructed with materials resistant to flood damage;
      4.   All new construction or substantial improvements shall be
constructed with electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing, and air
conditioning equipment and other service facilities that are designed and/or
located so as to prevent water from entering or accumulating within the
components during conditions of flooding;
      5.   All manufactured homes shall be installed using methods and
practices which minimize flood damage. For the purposes of this requirement,
manufactured homes must be elevated and anchored to resist flotation, collapse,
or lateral movement. Methods of anchoring may include, but are not limited to,
use of over the top or frame ties to ground anchors. This requirement is in
addition to applicable state and local anchoring requirements for resisting
wind forces;
      6.   All new and replacement water supply systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters into the system;
      7.   New and replacement sanitary sewage systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters into the system and discharge
from the systems into floodwaters; and
      8.   On site waste disposal systems shall be located to avoid impairment
to them or contamination from them during flooding.
   B.   Specific Standards: In all special flood hazard areas where base flood
elevation data has been provided as set forth in: 1) subsection 7-6-3B of this
chapter, 2) subsection 7-6-4B7 of this chapter, or 3) subsection G of this
section, the following provisions are required:
      1.   Residential Construction: New construction and substantial
improvement of any residential structure shall have the lowest floor (including
basement), electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing, and air conditioning
equipment and other service facilities (including ductwork), elevated to one
foot (1') above the base flood elevation. Upon completion of the structure, the
elevation of the lowest floor, including basement, shall be certified by a
registered Colorado professional engineer, architect, or land surveyor. Such
certification shall be submitted to the floodplain administrator.
      2.   Nonresidential Construction: With the exception of critical
facilities, outlined in subsection H of this section, new construction and
substantial improvements of any commercial, industrial, or other nonresidential
structure shall either have the lowest floor (including basement), electrical,
heating, ventilation, plumbing, and air conditioning equipment and other
service facilities (including ductwork), elevated to one foot (1') above the
base flood elevation or, together with attendant utility and sanitary
facilities, be designed so that at one foot (1') above the base flood elevation
the structure is watertight with walls substantially impermeable to the passage
of water and with structural components having the capability of resisting
hydrostatic and hydrodynamic loads and effects of buoyancy.
A registered Colorado professional engineer or architect shall develop and/or
review structural design, specifications, and plans for the construction, and
shall certify that the design and methods of construction are in accordance
with accepted standards of practice as outlined in this subsection. Such
certification shall be maintained by the floodplain administrator, as proposed
in subsection 7-6-4C of this chapter.
      3.   Enclosures: New construction and substantial improvements, with
fully enclosed areas below the lowest floor that are usable solely for parking
of vehicles, building access, or storage in an area other than a basement and
which are subject to flooding shall be designed to automatically equalize
hydrostatic flood forces on exterior walls by allowing for the entry and exit
of floodwaters.
Designs for meeting this requirement must either be certified by a registered
Colorado professional engineer or architect or meet or exceed the following
minimum criteria:
         a.   A minimum of two (2) openings having a total net area of not less
than one square inch for every square foot of enclosed area subject to flooding
shall be provided.
         b.   The bottom of all openings shall be no higher than one foot (1')
above grade.
         c.   Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, valves, or other
coverings or devices provided that they permit the automatic entry and exit of
floodwaters.
      4.   Manufactured Homes: All manufactured homes that are placed or
substantially improved within zones A1-30, AH, and AE on the community's FIRM
on sites: a) outside of a manufactured home park or subdivision, b) in a new
manufactured home park or subdivision, c) in an expansion to an existing
manufactured home park or subdivision, or d) in an existing manufactured home
park or subdivision on which manufactured home has incurred "substantial
damage" as a result of a flood, be elevated on a permanent foundation such that
the lowest floor of the manufactured home, electrical, heating, ventilation,
plumbing, and air conditioning equipment and other service facilities
(including ductwork), are elevated to one foot (1') above the base flood
elevation and be securely anchored to an adequately anchored foundation system
to resist flotation, collapse, and lateral movement.
All manufactured homes placed or substantially improved on sites in an existing
manufactured home park or subdivision within zones A1-30, AH and AE on the
community's FIRM that are not subject to the provisions of the above paragraph,
shall be elevated so that either:
         a.   The lowest floor of the manufactured home, electrical, heating,
ventilation, plumbing, and air conditioning equipment and other service
facilities (including ductwork), are one foot (1') above the base flood
elevation, or
         b.   The manufactured home chassis is supported by reinforced piers or
other foundation elements of at least equivalent strength that are no less than
thirty six inches (36") in height above grade and be securely anchored to an
adequately anchored foundation system to resist flotation, collapse, and
lateral movement.
      5.   Recreational Vehicles: All recreational vehicles placed on sites
within zones A1-30, AH, and AE on the community's FIRM either:
         a.   Be on the site for fewer than one hundred eighty (180)
consecutive days,
         b.   Be fully licensed and ready for highway use, or
         c.   Meet the permit requirements of subsection 7-6-4C of this
chapter, and the elevation and anchoring requirements for "manufactured homes"
in subsection B4 of this section.
A recreational vehicle is ready for highway use if it is on its wheels or
jacking system, is attached to the site only by quick disconnect type utilities
and security devices, and has no permanently attached additions.
      6.   Prior Approved Activities: Any activity for which a floodplain
development permit was issued by town of Simla or a CLOMR was issued by FEMA
prior to August 13, 2013, may be completed according to the standards in place
at the time of the permit or CLOMR issuance and will not be considered in
violation of this chapter if it meets such standards.
   C.   Standards For Areas Of Shallow Flooding (AO/AH Zones): Located within
the special flood hazard area established in subsection 7-6-3B of this chapter,
are areas designated as shallow flooding. These areas have special flood
hazards associated with base flood depths of one to three feet (1 - 3') where a
clearly defined channel does not exist and where the path of flooding is
unpredictable and where velocity flow may be evident. Such flooding is
characterized by ponding or sheet flow; therefore, the following provisions
apply:
      1.   Residential Construction: All new construction and substantial
improvements of residential structures must have the lowest floor (including
basement), electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing, and air conditioning
equipment and other service facilities (including ductwork), elevated above the
highest adjacent grade at least one foot (1') above the depth number specified
in feet on the community's FIRM (at least 3 feet if no depth number is
specified). Upon completion of the structure, the elevation of the lowest
floor, including basement, shall be certified by a registered Colorado
professional engineer, architect, or land surveyor. Such certification shall be
submitted to the floodplain administrator.
      2.   Nonresidential Construction: With the exception of critical
facilities, outlined in subsection H of this section, all new construction and
substantial improvements of nonresidential structures, must have the lowest
floor (including basement), electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing, and air
conditioning equipment and other service facilities (including ductwork),
elevated above the highest adjacent grade at least one foot (1') above the
depth number specified in feet on the community's FIRM (at least 3 feet if no
depth number is specified), or together with attendant utility and sanitary
facilities, be designed so that the structure is watertight to at least one
foot (1') above the base flood level with walls substantially impermeable to
the passage of water and with structural components having the capability of
resisting hydrostatic and hydrodynamic loads of effects of buoyancy. A
registered Colorado professional engineer or architect shall submit a
certification to the floodplain administrator that the standards of this
section, as proposed in subsection 7-6-4C of this chapter, are satisfied.
Within zones AH or AO, adequate drainage paths around structures on slopes are
required to guide floodwaters around and away from proposed structures.
   D.   Floodways: Floodways are administrative limits and tools used to
regulate existing and future floodplain development. The state of Colorado has
adopted floodway standards that are more stringent than the FEMA minimum
standard (see definition of Floodway (Regulatory Floodway) in section
7-6-2 of this chapter). Located within special flood hazard area established in
subsection 7-6-3B of this chapter, are areas designated as floodways. Since the
floodway is an extremely hazardous area due to the velocity of floodwaters
which carry debris, potential projectiles and erosion potential, the following
provisions shall apply:
      1.   Encroachments are prohibited, including fill, new construction,
substantial improvements and other development within the adopted regulatory
floodway unless it has been demonstrated through hydrologic and hydraulic
analyses performed by a licensed Colorado professional engineer and in
accordance with standard engineering practice that the proposed encroachment
would not result in any increase (requires a no rise certification) in flood
levels within the community during the occurrence of the base flood discharge.
      2.   If subsection D1 of this section is satisfied, all new construction
and substantial improvements shall comply with all applicable flood hazard
reduction provisions of this section.
      3.   Under the provisions of 44 CFR chapter 1, section 65.12 of the
national flood insurance regulations, a community may permit encroachments
within the adopted regulatory floodway that would result in an increase in base
flood elevations, provided that the community first applies for a CLOMR and
floodway revision through FEMA.
   E.   Alteration Of A Watercourse: For all proposed developments that alter a
watercourse within a special flood hazard area, the following standards apply:
      1.   Channelization and flow diversion projects shall appropriately
consider issues of sediment transport, erosion, deposition, and channel
migration and properly mitigate potential problems through the project as well
as upstream and downstream of any improvement activity. A detailed analysis of
sediment transport and overall channel stability should be considered, when
appropriate, to assist in determining the most appropriate design.
      2.   Channelization and flow diversion projects shall evaluate the
residual 100-year floodplain.
      3.   Any channelization or other stream alteration activity proposed by a
project proponent must be evaluated for its impact on the regulatory floodplain
and be in compliance with all applicable federal, state and local floodplain
rules, regulations and ordinances.
      4.   Any stream alteration activity shall be designed and sealed by a
registered Colorado professional engineer or certified professional
hydrologist.
      5.   All activities within the regulatory floodplain shall meet all
applicable federal, state and town of Simla floodplain requirements and
regulations.
      6.   Within the regulatory floodway, stream alteration activities shall
not be constructed unless the project proponent demonstrates through a floodway
analysis and report, sealed by a registered Colorado professional engineer,
that there is not more than a 0.00 foot rise in the proposed conditions
compared to existing conditions of the floodway resulting from the project,
otherwise known as a no rise certification, unless the community first applies
for a CLOMR and floodway revision in accordance with subsection D of this
section.
      7.   Maintenance shall be required for any altered or relocated portions
of watercourses so that the flood carrying capacity is not diminished.
   F.   Properties Removed From The Floodplain By Fill: A floodplain
development permit shall not be issued for the construction of a new structure
or addition to an existing structure on a property removed from the floodplain
by the issuance of a FEMA letter of map revision based on fill (LOMR-F), unless
such new structure or addition complies with the following:
      1.   Residential Construction: The lowest floor (including basement),
electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing, and air conditioning equipment and
other service facilities (including ductwork), must be elevated to one foot
(1') above the base flood elevation that existed prior to the placement of
fill.
      2.   Nonresidential Construction: The lowest floor (including basement),
electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing, and air conditioning equipment and
other service facilities (including ductwork), must be elevated to one foot
(1') above the base flood elevation that existed prior to the placement of
fill, or together with attendant utility and sanitary facilities be designed so
that the structure or addition is watertight to at least one foot (1') above
the base flood level that existed prior to the placement of fill with walls
substantially impermeable to the passage of water and with structural
components having the capability of resisting hydrostatic and hydrodynamic
loads of effects of buoyancy.
   G.   Standards For Subdivision Proposals:
      1.   All subdivision proposals including the placement of manufactured
home parks and subdivisions shall be reasonably safe from flooding. If a
subdivision or other development proposal is in a flood prone area, the
proposal shall minimize flood damage.
      2.   All proposals for the development of subdivisions including the
placement of manufactured home parks and subdivisions shall meet floodplain
development permit requirements of subsections 7-6-3C and 7-6-4C of this
chapter; and the provisions of this section.
      3.   Base flood elevation data shall be generated for subdivision
proposals and other proposed development including the placement of
manufactured home parks and subdivisions which are greater than fifty (50) lots
or five (5) acres, whichever is lesser, if not otherwise provided pursuant to
subsection 7-6-3B or 7-6-4B of this chapter.
      4.   All subdivision proposals including the placement of manufactured
home parks and subdivisions shall have adequate drainage provided to reduce
exposure to flood hazards.
      5.   All subdivision proposals including the placement of manufactured
home parks and subdivisions shall have public utilities and facilities such as
sewer, gas, electrical and water systems located and constructed to minimize or
eliminate flood damage.
   H.   Standards For Critical Facilities: A critical facility is a structure
or related infrastructure, but not the land on which it is situated, as
specified in rule 6 of the rules and regulations for regulatory floodplains in
Colorado, that if flooded may result in significant hazards to public health
and safety or interrupt essential services and operations for the community at
any time before, during and after a flood.
      1.   Classification Of Critical Facilities: It is the responsibility of
the Simla board of trustees to identify and confirm that specific structures in
their community meet the following criteria:
Critical facilities are classified under the following categories: a) essential
services; b) hazardous materials; c) at risk populations; and d) vital to
restoring normal services.
         a.   Essential services facilities include public safety, emergency
response, emergency medical, designated emergency shelters, communications,
public utility plant facilities, and transportation lifelines.
            (1)   These facilities consist of:
               (A) Public safety (police stations, fire and rescue stations,
emergency vehicle and equipment storage, and emergency operation centers);
               (B) Emergency medical (hospitals, ambulance service centers,
urgent care centers having emergency treatment functions, and nonambulatory
surgical structures but excluding clinics, doctor's offices, and nonurgent care
medical structures that do not provide these functions);
               (C) Designated emergency shelters;
               (D) Communications (main hubs for telephone, broadcasting
equipment for cable systems, satellite dish systems, cellular systems,
television, radio, and other emergency warning systems, but excluding towers,
poles, lines, cables, and conduits);
               (E) Public utility plant facilities for generation and
distribution (hubs, treatment plants, substations and pumping stations for
water, power and gas, but not including towers, poles, power lines, buried
pipelines, transmission lines, distribution lines, and service lines); and
               (F) Air transportation lifelines (airports [municipal and
larger], helicopter pads and structures serving emergency functions, and
associated infrastructure [aviation control towers, air traffic control
centers, and emergency equipment aircraft hangars]).
            (2)   Specific exemptions to this category include wastewater
treatment plants (WWTP), nonpotable water treatment and distribution systems,
and hydroelectric power generating plants and related appurtenances.
            (3)   Public utility plant facilities may be exempted if it can be
demonstrated to the satisfaction of the Simla board of trustees that the
facility is an element of a redundant system for which service will not be
interrupted during a flood. At a minimum, it shall be demonstrated that
redundant facilities are available (either owned by the same utility or
available through an intergovernmental agreement or other contract) and
connected, the alternative facilities are either located outside of the 100-
year floodplain or are compliant with the provisions of this section, and an
operations plan is in effect that states how redundant systems will provide
service to the affected area in the event of a flood. Evidence of ongoing
redundancy shall be provided to the Simla board of trustees on an as needed
basis upon request.
         b.   Hazardous materials facilities include facilities that produce or
store highly volatile, flammable, explosive, toxic and/or water reactive
materials.
            (1)   These facilities may include:
               (A) Chemical and pharmaceutical plants (chemical plant,
pharmaceutical manufacturing);
               (B) Laboratories containing highly volatile, flammable,
explosive, toxic and/or water reactive materials;
               (C) Refineries;
               (D) Hazardous waste storage and disposal sites; and
               (E) Aboveground gasoline or propane storage or sales centers.
            (2)   Facilities shall be determined to be critical facilities if
they produce or store materials in excess of threshold limits. If the owner of
a facility is required by the occupational safety and health administration
(OSHA) to keep a material safety data sheet (MSDS) on file for any chemicals
stored or used in the workplace, and the chemical(s) is stored in quantities
equal to or greater than the threshold planning quantity (TPQ) for that
chemical, then that facility shall be considered to be a critical facility. The
TPQ for these chemicals is: either five hundred (500) pounds or the TPQ listed
(whichever is lower) for the three hundred fifty six (356) chemicals listed
under 40 CFR section 302 (2010), also known as extremely hazardous substances
(EHS); or ten thousand (10,000) pounds for any other chemical. This threshold
is consistent with the requirements for reportable chemicals established by the
Colorado department of health and environment. OSHA requirements for MSDS can
be found in 29 CFR section 1910 (2010). The environmental protection agency
(EPA) regulation "designation, reportable quantities, and notification", 40 CFR
section 302 (2010) and OSHA regulation "occupational safety and health
standards", 29 CFR section 1910 (2010) are incorporated herein by reference and
include the regulations in existence at the time of the promulgation of this
chapter, but exclude later amendments to or editions of the regulations.
            (3)   Specific exemptions to this category include:
               (A) Finished consumer products within retail centers and
households containing hazardous materials intended for household use, and
agricultural products intended for agricultural use.
               (B) Buildings and other structures containing hazardous
materials for which it can be demonstrated to the satisfaction of the local
authority having jurisdiction by hazard assessment and certification by a
qualified professional (as determined by the local jurisdiction having land use
authority) that a release of the subject hazardous material does not pose a
major threat to the public.
               (C) Pharmaceutical sales, use, storage, and distribution centers
that do not manufacture pharmaceutical products.
            (4)   These exemptions shall not apply to buildings or other
structures that also function as critical facilities under another category
outlined in this section.
         c.   At risk population facilities include medical care, congregate
care, and schools.
            (1)   These facilities consist of:
               (A) Eldercare (nursing homes);
               (B) Congregate care serving twelve (12) or more individuals
(daycare and assisted living);
               (C) Public and private schools (preschools, K - 12 schools,
before school and after school care serving 12 or more children);
         d.   Facilities vital to restoring normal services including
government operations.
            (1)   These facilities consist of:
               (A) Essential government operations (public records, courts,
jails, building permitting and inspection services, community administration
and management, maintenance and equipment centers);
               (B) Essential structures for public colleges and universities
(dormitories, offices, and classrooms only).
            (2)   These facilities may be exempted if it is demonstrated to the
Simla board of trustees that the facility is an element of a redundant system
for which service will not be interrupted during a flood. At a minimum, it
shall be demonstrated that redundant facilities are available (either owned by
the same entity or available through an intergovernmental agreement or other
contract), the alternative facilities are either located outside of the 100-
year floodplain or are compliant with this chapter, and an operations plan is
in effect that states how redundant facilities will provide service to the
affected area in the event of a flood. Evidence of ongoing redundancy shall be
provided to the Simla board of trustees on an as needed basis upon request.
      2.   Protection For Critical Facilities: All new and substantially
improved critical facilities and new additions to critical facilities located
within the special flood hazard area shall be regulated to a higher standard
than structures not determined to be critical facilities. For the purposes of
this chapter, protection shall include one of the following:
         a.   Location outside the special flood hazard area; or
         b.   Elevation of the lowest floor or floodproofing of the structure,
together with attendant utility and sanitary facilities, to at least two feet
(2') above the base flood elevation.
      3.   Ingress And Egress For New Critical Facilities: New critical
facilities shall, when practicable as determined by the Simla board of
trustees, have continuous noninundated access (ingress and egress for
evacuation and emergency services) during a 100-year flood event. (Res. 192-
2013, 8-13-2013)
CHAPTER 7
SHIPPING CONTAINERS
SECTION:
7-7-1: Authorization And Purpose
7-7-2: Definitions
7-7-3: Residential Property
7-7-4: Residential And Commercial Property - Temporary Use
7-7-5: Industrial And Commercial Property
7-7-6: Storage Containers As A Non-Conforming Use
7-7-1: AUTHORIZATION AND PURPOSE:
In addition to Colorado Revised Statutes, 31-23-301 concerning zoning, as set
forth above, Colorado Revised Statutes 31-15-401, et. seq, give to the
governing body of each statutory municipality the power, authority, and
discretion to do all acts and make all regulations which may be necessary or
expedient for the promotion of health or the suppression of disease within a
town, including declaring certain acts or structures to be a nuisance. The
purpose of this ordinance is to regulate the use of shipping containers within
the Town of Simla, Elbert County, Colorado, to protect the public health,
safety, welfare, and to promote public aesthetics within the Town. (Ord. 321,
1-12-2021)
7-7-2: DEFINITIONS:
The following definitions shall be applicable to new Title 7, Chapter 7 of the
Simla Town Code:
 
COMMERCIAL PROPERTY:                Property not used for a residential use.
PARCEL:                             Any lot or contiguous group of lots owned
                                    by the same person, persons, or entity.
PORTABLE/RENTAL CONTAINER BUSINESS: A business that leases or sells containers
                                    that are transported to another site.
                                    A property zoned residential or property
RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY:               where the primary use of which is
                                    residential.
                                    Any real property designed and used for the
                                    purpose of renting or leasing individual
                                    storage space to occupants who are to have
SELF-SERVICE STORAGE FACILITY:      access to such facility for the purpose of
                                    storing and removing personal property. A
                                    self-service storage facility is not a
                                    public warehouse.
                                    A mobile trailer with or without a chassis,
                                    axles and wheels that is towed by a truck
SEMI-TRUCK TRAILER:                 or tractor, including dry van trailers and
                                    refrigerated van trailers. This includes a
                                    box-trailer.
                                    A detachable prefabricated reusable
                                    container intended for transporting cargo
                                    and commonly called cargo containers,
                                    storage containers, transport containers or
                                    marine cargo containers. The definition
SHIPPING CONTAINERS:                includes Conex and rail cars. They are
                                    self-contained without axles or wheels.
                                    Shipping containers will be allowed as
                                    buildings in the Town of Simla subject to
                                    the restrictions within this title and
                                    chapter.
 
(Ord. 321, 1-12-2021)
7-7-3: RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY:
   A.   A single shipping container is allowed on parcel which has a permanent
residential dwelling subject to the following conditions:
      1.   Foundations and footings are required for containers that are
repurposed for use as a permanent building or structure.
      2.   No more than one (1) container is allowed on a parcel of land.
      3.   Containers shall not be stacked above the height of a single
container and no other materials may be stacked on top of the shipping
container.
      4.   Containers shall resemble the principal occupied structures. Without
limiting the generality of the foregoing, such resemblance shall include a
similar color.
      5.   Containers shall be in an approved designated area on the parcel,
behind the primary structure, on the same property as the principal use and
will be included in the calculation of overall lot coverage. All setback
requirements for dwellings shall be honored unless a variance is granted by the
Board
      6.   No container may be placed on a vacant parcel of land.
      7.   Semi-truck trailers are not allowed to be used as storage
containers.
   B.   A property owner requesting more than one permanent container on a
residential property may potentially be permitted to do so by special review
upon approval of the Town Board of Trustees, subject to the following procedure
and criteria:
      1.   Applications for this review shall be submitted with a building
permit to the Town Clerk at least fifteen (15) days before the regular or
special meeting of the Town Board of Trustees at which the request is to be
considered.
      2.   The permit must include a site plan, plan for footers, foundation,
and anchoring. The permit shall address the appearance of the container by
photograph or other means.
      3.   The Town Board of Trustees shall review the request in relation to
the health, safety, and general welfare of the community and the character of
the surrounding neighborhood, and the desirability and need for such proposed
structure.
      4.   The Board of Trustees shall make a decision of approval, of approval
with conditions, or shall deny the application.
      5.   If more than one container is allowed and are placed side by side
each other they must be engineered and attached.
      6.   If they are placed apart from each other a minimum of three (3) feet
is required between each container. The Board shall consider the request based
on both safety and aesthetics of the neighborhood as well as comment from
neighboring landowners.
      7.   Approval of a special review request shall be valid for a period of
one (1) year. If the container(s) has not been placed within one (1) year, the
Board's approval for that permit shall be considered void. (Ord. 321, 1-12-
2021)
7-7-4: RESIDENTIAL AND COMMERCIAL PROPERTY - TEMPORARY USE:
   A   A single container is allowed on residential property, without a
permanent foundation, and as a temporary use for a period of no more than sixty
(60) days from the date of a permit for the purpose of loading and unloading
household contents provided that:
      1.   A temporary permit has been issued for such placement by the Simla
Town Clerk or Deputy Clerk.
      2.   No container shall be located closer than five (5) feet to any side
or rear lot line and fifteen (15) feet from the front lot line.
      3.   No container shall be placed in any street or alley.
   B.   A single container may be temporarily placed on a construction site,
without a permanent foundation, for storage incidental to an active
construction or remodeling project provided that:
      1.   A building permit has been issued for construction of the site and
the permit has not expired, and
      2.   The container is removed once construction is completed or once the
building permit expires, whichever occurs first.
      3.   A temporary permit has been issued for such placement by the Simla
Town Clerk or Deputy Clerk.
      4.   No container shall be placed in any street or alley.
      5.   If more than one (1) container will be needed for a construction
site, the applicant may be approved for more containers through the Town
Clerk's office. (Ord. 321, 1-12-2021)
7-7-5: INDUSTRIAL AND COMMERCIAL PROPERTY:
   A.   Containers are allowed permanently on commercial property subject to
the following conditions:
      1.   Foundations and footings are required for containers that are
repurposed for use as permanent building or structure. The foundation and
anchoring system will be inspected by the Town of Simla building inspector.
      2.   If containers are placed side by side each other they must be
engineered and attached. If they are placed apart from each other a minimum of
3 feet is required between each container.
      3.   Containers shall not be stacked above the height of a single
container and no other materials may be stacked on top of the cargo container.
      4.   Containers shall resemble and compliment the aesthetics of the
adjacent structures.
      5.   Containers must be screened from the public on all sides by a six
(6) foot fence with either solid or slat material. The type of fencing to be
used for this purpose must be approved by the Board of Trustees prior to the
issuance of a building permit, and prior to the use of the property for sale or
storage purpose. The Board of Trustees, in its sole discretion, may determine
that as to each permitted use of a shipping container, the particular
circumstances at the subject site of the proposed container may mandate that a
fence not be installed, that the fence be installed at a different height, that
the fence be of a different material, or other site specific circumstances.
      6.   Self-service storage facilities must be placed on a foundation and
footings.
      7.   A portable/rental container business need not be placed on a
foundation and footings.
   B.   A single container may be temporarily placed on a commercial property
for a period of no more than sixty (60) days for the purpose of loading and
unloading contents provided that:
      1.   A temporary permit has been issued for such placement by the Simla
Town Clerk or Deputy Clerk.
      2.   No container shall be located closer than five (5) feet to any side
or rear lot line and fifteen (15) feet from the front lot line.
      3.   No container shall be placed in any street or alley.
   C.   A storage container may be placed on a commercial construction site for
the storage incidental to an active construction or remodeling project provided
that:
      1.   A building permit has been issued for construction of the site and
the permit has not expired, and
      2.   The container is removed once construction is completed or once the
building permit expires, whichever occurs first.
      3.   A temporary permit has been issued for such placement by the Simla
Town Clerk or Deputy Clerk.
      4.   No container shall be placed in any street or alley.
      5.   If more than one (1) container will be needed for a construction
site, the applicant may be approved for more containers through the Town
Clerk's office.
(Ord. 321, 1-12-2021; amd. Ord. 335, - - )
7-7-6: STORAGE CONTAINERS AS A NON-CONFORMING USE:
Storage containers presently existing on a residential or commercial property
prior to the adoption of this Title 7, Chapter 7 shall be permitted to continue
as a nonconforming structure provided that the containers are not moved. If the
property owner subsequently moves the container in the stated zones, the use
shall be required to conform to this Code. Further, any approved non-conforming
use of a storage container on a commercial property shall be screened from the
public view on all sides by a six (6) foot fence with either solid or slat
material as approved by the Board of Trustees within one hundred twenty (120)
days of the passage of this ordinance.
(Ord. 321, 1-12-2021)
CHAPTER 8
RECREATIONAL VEHICLE (RV) PARKS
SECTION:
7-8-1: Purpose And Scope
7-8-2: Definitions
7-8-3: Minimum Facilities For Recreational Vehicle Spaces
7-8-4: Easements, Rights-Of-Way, Pubic Open Space And Common Areas
7-8-5: Driveways
7-8-6: Walkways
7-8-7: Maintenance
7-8-8: Water Supply And Distribution
7-8-9: Sewage Disposal
7-8-10: Fire Protection
7-8-11:    Electrical Distribution And Communication Wiring
7-8-12:    Service Building
7-8-13:    Supervision
7-8-14:    Grandfathering
7-8-1:    PURPOSE AND SCOPE:
   The purpose of this Chapter is to provide standards for recreational vehicle
(RV) Parks to identify to applicants the requirements of the Town of Simla for
recreational vehicle (RV) Parks and to facilitate the creation of high-quality
recreational vehicle (RV) Park projects. A final determination of the actual
design of any project is subject to the review and approval of the Board of
Trustees.
(Ord. 340, 8-13-2024)
7-8-2: DEFINITIONS:
 
                                Any tract of land held under single ownership
                                or unified control upon which one (1) or more
                                recreational vehicles may be located, whether
RECREATIONAL VEHICLE (RV) PARK: or not a fee is charged for use of the
                                property; provided that the property used
                                primarily for parking or storing unoccupied
                                recreational vehicles shall not constitute a
                                recreational vehicle (RV) park.
 
(Ord. 340, 8-13-2024)
7-8-3: MINIMUM FACILITIES FOR RECREATIONAL VEHICLE SPACES:
   The area devoted to each recreational vehicle space shall be adequate to
accommodate the following facilities:
   A.   Picnic Facilities: Each space shall be provided with a fireplace or
fire circle, a picnic table and a well-drained, level site.
   B.   Parking Space: Each space shall provide one (1) graveled parking space.
   C.   Vehicle Barriers: Adequate barriers shall be provided to confine
vehicles to driveways and parking spaces.
(Ord. 340, 8-13-2024)
7-8-4:     EASEMENTS, RIGHTS-OF-WAY, PUBLIC OPEN SPACE AND COMMON AREAS:
   A.   Open Space and Common Areas: Recreational vehicle parks/campgrounds
shall provide public open space of common areas in an amount of at least ten
(10%) percent of the total area of the park or campground. Maintenance of
private common areas within a park or campground shall be the responsibility of
the owner and operator.
   B.   Dedication of Easements, Rights-of-Way, and Public Lands: Applicants
shall submit a warranty deed or file a plat of the site to assure the
dedication of all easements and public lands prior to the approval of the
permit application. All lands, including easements and rights-of-way to be
dedicated, shall be accompanied by full legal descriptions prepared by a
Colorado licensed or registered professional land surveyor.
   C.   Restrictions: Land to be provided for public and/or private
recreational use and/or open space shall not include any area dedicated as a
roadway, campsite or RV space, storage area or any area required for setbacks.
(Ord. 340, 8-13-2024)
7-8-5: DRIVEWAYS:
   All recreational vehicle spaces shall abut upon a driveway, grading for
drainage and maintained in a rut and dust free condition, which provides
unobstructed access to a public street or highway. The minimum unobstructed
width of such driveways shall be fifteen (15) feet for one-way traffic or
twenty-five (25) feet for two-way traffic. No parking shall be permitted on the
driveways.
(Ord. 340, 8-13-2024)
7-8-6: WALKWAYS:
   All park and campground walkways and bicycle paths shall be gravel or hard
surfaced. Walkway widths shall not be less than five (5) feet wide and all
roadways, walkways and bicycle paths shall be provided with illuminations of
not less than twenty-five (25) watt lamps at intervals of not more than one
hundred (100) feet.
(Ord. 340, 8-13-2024)
7-8-7: MAINTENANCE:
   All RV and campsites shall be maintained in a clean and sanitary condition,
free from hazardous and noxious materials, weeds and refuse, in compliance with
Title 3 of this Code. The park/campground owner shall be responsible for
ensuring compliance.
(Ord. 340, 8-13-2024)
7-8-8: WATER SUPPLY AND DISTRIBUTION:
   A.   Comply with Standards: A domestic water supply that is in compliance
with the drinking water standards of the Colorado Department of Public Health
and Environment shall be provided in each recreational vehicle (RV) park. This
also includes appropriate backflow and cross connections prior to the first tap
to the park. Appropriate methods and/or devices will be used and tested to
comply with State regulations. Where a public supply of water of satisfactory
quantity, quality and pressure is available, connection shall be made thereto,
and it shall be the exclusive supply used. When such a public water supply is
not available, a central water supply system may be developed and used if it
meets standards of the Colorado Department of Public Health and Environment and
the ordinances of the Town of Simla.
   B.   Located to Avoid Contamination: Every well or suction line of the water
supply system shall be located and constructed in such a manner that neither
underground nor surface contamination will reach the water supply from any
other source.
   C.   Treatment: The treatment of a private water supply shall be in
accordance with applicable state and local laws and regulations.
   D.   Connection: The park's water supply system shall be connected by pipes
to all recreational vehicles, buildings, and other facilities requiring water.
   E.   Equipment: All water piping, fixtures and other equipment shall be
located, constructed and maintained in accordance with state and local
regulations and requirements.
   F.   Pressure: The system shall be so designed and maintained as to provide
a pressure of not less than twenty (20) nor more than eighty (80) psi, under
normal operating conditions in service buildings and other locations requiring
a portable water supply.
   G.   Separation: A minimum horizontal separation of ten (10) feet shall be
maintained between all domestic water lines and sewer lines.
   H.   Underground Valves: Underground stop and waste valves shall not be
installed on any water service.
   I.   Supply: The water supply shall be capable of supplying one hundred
(100) gallons per space per day for all spaces provided with individual water
connections.
   J.   Individual Water Service Connections: If facilities for individual
water service connections are provided, the following requirements shall apply.
      1.   Riser Pipes: Rise pipes provided for individual water service
connections shall be so located and constructed that they will not be damaged
by the parking of recreational vehicles. Water riser pipes shall extend a
minimum of four (4) inches above ground elevation unless recessed in a box or
sleeve. The pipe size shall be three-quarter inch.
      2.   Prevent Freezing: Adequate provisions shall be made to prevent
freezing of main service lines, valves and riser pipes.
      3.   Valves: Valves shall be provided near the outlet of each water
service connection. They shall be turned off and outlets capped or plugged when
not in use.
      4.   Connection: The park's water supply system shall be connected by
pipes to all recreational vehicles, buildings and other facilities requiring
water.
   K.   Water Stations:
      1.   Stations for Recreational Vehicle Area: Each recreational vehicle
parking area shall be provided with one or more easily accessible watering
station for filling water storage tanks. Such water supply outlets shall
consist of at least a water hydrant and the necessary appurtenances and shall
be protected against the hazards of back flow and back siphonage.
      2.   Stations for Tent Camping Area: Each tent camping area shall be
provided with at least one individual watering station no more than two hundred
(200) feet from any tent camping space. Riser height shall be between thirty
(30) inches and thirty-two (32) inches and a splash pad shall be installed
around the base.
(Ord. 340, 8-13-2024)
7-8-9: SEWAGE DISPOSAL:
   An adequate sewage system shall be provided in each recreational vehicle
(RV) park for the purpose of conveying and disposing of all sewage. Such system
shall be designed, constructed and maintained in accordance with state and
local laws.
   A.   Sewer Line: All sewer lines shall be located in trenches of sufficient
depth to be free of breakage from traffic or other movements and shall maintain
a minimum horizontal separation of ten (10) feet from all domestic water lines.
Sewers shall be at a grade that will ensure a velocity of two (2) feet per
second when flowing full. All sewer lines shall be constructed of materials
that comply with state or town regulations and with Colorado Department of
Public Health and Environment.
   B.   Sewage Treatment and/or Discharge: Where the sewer lines of the park
are not connected to a public sewer, all proposed sewage disposal facilities
shall be approved prior to construction. Effluents from sewage treatment
facilities shall not be discharged into any waters of the state except with
prior approval of the Colorado Department of Public Health and Environment.
   C.   Individual Sewer Connections: If facilities for individual sewer
connections are provided, the following requirements shall apply:
      1.   Sewer Riser Pipe: The sewer riser pipe shall be a minimum of four
(4) inches in diameter, shall be trapped below the ground surface and shall be
so located on the trailer space that the sewer connection to the trailer system
will approximate a vertical position.
      2.   Sewer Connection: The sewer connection shall have a nominal inside
diameter of a minimum of three (3) inches and the slope of any portion thereof
shall be minimum of one-eighth inch per foot. All joints shall be watertight.
Each RV in the recreational vehicle (RV) park shall have an individual sewer
connection.
      3.   Materials: All materials used for sewer connections shall be
corrosive resistant, nonabsorbent and durable. The inner surface shall be
smooth.
      4.   Plugging: Provisions shall be made for plugging the sewer riser pipe
when a trailer does not occupy the space. Surface drainage shall be diverted
away from the riser.
   D.   Solid Wastes: No liquid wastes from sinks shall be discharged into or
allowed to accumulate on the ground surface. The owner shall provide for trash
removal on a regular basis.
   E.   Sewage Treatment and/or Discharge: Where the sewer lines of the travel
trailer parking area are not connected to a public sewer, all proposed sewage
disposal facilities shall be approved by the Colorado Department of Public
Health and Environment prior to construction. Effluents from sewage treatment
facilities shall not be discharged into any waters of the state except with
prior approval of the Colorado Department of Public Health and Environment.
(Ord. 340, 8-13-2024)
7-8-10: FIRE PROTECTION:
   Adequate fire protection shall be provided and shall be in compliance with
all applicable fire codes and standards. All campgrounds shall be equipped at
all times with fire extinguishing equipment in good working order and of such
type, size and number and so located as prescribed by the authorizing local
fire suppression organization.
(Ord. 340, 8-13-2024)
7-8-11: ELECTRICAL DISTRIBUTION AND COMMUNICATION WIRING:
   A.   Electrical Distribution System: Each recreational vehicle (RV) park
shall contain an electrical distribution system to each lot or recreational
vehicle site, consisting of wiring, fixtures, equipment and appurtenances
thereto which shall be installed and maintained in accordance with state and
local regulations. Telephone and cable TV systems may be installed and
maintained.
   B.   Approval by Utility: All plans for the above services shall have the
approval of the responsible utility prior to local approval of park plans.
(Ord. 340, 8-13-2024)
7-8-12: SERVICE BUILDING:
   A.   Applicability: The requirements of this Section shall apply to service
buildings, recreation buildings and other community service facilities such as
management offices, repair shops and storage areas, sanitary facilities,
laundry facilities, indoor recreation areas, and commercial uses supplying
essential goods or services for the exclusive use of park occupants. The
requirements set forth herein shall be in addition to all building and related
code requirements as set forth in Title 7 of this Code.
   B.   Structural Requirements for Buildings:
      1.   Protection: All portions of the structure shall be properly
protected from damage by ordinary uses and by decay, corrosion, termites and
destructive elements. Exterior portions shall be of such materials and be so
constructed and protected as to prevent entrance or penetration of moisture and
weather.
      2.   Sanitary or Laundry Facilities: All rooms containing sanitary or
laundry facilities shall:
         a.   Walls: Have sound-resistant walls extending to the ceiling
between male and female sanitary facilities. Walls and partitions around
showers, bathtubs, lavatories and other plumbing fixtures shall be constructed
of dense, non-absorbent waterproof material or be covered with moisture
resistant material.
         b.   Windows: Have a minimum of one window or skylight facing direcdy
to the outdoors. The minimum aggregate gross area of windows for each required
room shall not be less than ten percent (10%) of the floor area served by them.
A minimum of one window shall be able to be easily opened, or the room shall
have a mechanical device that will adequately ventilate the room.
         c.   Toilets: Have toilets locked in separate compartments equipped
with self-closing doors. Shower stalls shall be of the individual type. The
rooms shall be screened to prevent direct view of the interior when the
exterior doors are open.
         d.   Illumination: Have illumination levels maintained as follows:
            (1)   Five foot candles for general seeing tasks.
            (2)   Forty foot candles for laundry room work area and toilet room
in front of mirrors.
         e.   Hot and Cold Water: Have hot and cold water furnished to every
lavatory, sink, bathtub, shower and laundry fixture, and cold water furnished
to every water closet and urinal.
   C.   Required Community Sanitary Facilities:
      1.   Central Service Building: A central service building containing the
necessary toilet and other plumbing fixtures specified shall be provided in
recreational vehicle (RV) parking areas that provide spaces for vehicles and
for tent camping areas. Service buildings shall be conveniently located within
a radius of approximately three hundred (300) feet to the spaces served.
      2.   Sanitary Facilities for Women: Sanitary facilities for women shall
include a minimum of one and one-half flush toilet, one lavatory and one shower
for each fifteen (15) recreational vehicle or tent spaces or fractional number
thereof.
      3.   Sanitary Facilities for Men: Sanitary facilities for men shall
include a minimum of one flush toilet, one urinal, one lavatory and one shower
for each fifteen (15) recreation vehicle or tent spaces or fractional number
thereof.
      4.   Recreational Vehicle (RV) Park Connected to Resort: When a
recreational vehicle (RV) park requiring a service building is operated in
connection with a resort or other business establishment, the number of
sanitary facilities for such business establishment shall be in excess of those
required by the schedule of recreational vehicle spaces and shall be based on
the maximum number of people allowed to use such facilities.
(Ord. 340, 8-13-2024)
7-8-13: SUPERVISION:
   A.   Attendant: An attendant or caretaker shall be on site and in charge at
all times to keep the park, its facilities and equipment in a clean, orderly
and sanitary condition.
   B.   Owner Answerable: The owner shall be answerable for the violation of
any provision of these regulations.
   C.   Refuse Handling: The storage, collection and disposal of refuse in a
recreational vehicle (RV) park shall be so arranged as to not create health
hazards, rodent harborage, insect breeding areas, accident or fire hazards, or
air pollution. All refuse shall be disposed of at either a municipal or County
designated landfill site or by regular trash pickup by a trash collection
company, at a minimum of once per week or as directed by a Code Enforcement
Official.
   D.   Pest Control: Grounds, buildings, and structures shall be maintained
free of insect and rodent harborage and infestation. Extermination methods and
other measures to control insects and rodents shall conform with local
regulations and requirements of the Colorado Department of Public Health and
Environment.
   E.   Pet Control: The owners or managers of a recreational vehicle (RV)
park, or all owners or persons in charge of any dog, cat or other pet animal
shall have such animal on a leash, not exceeding ten feet or shall confine such
animals within the space or designated areas within the park and shall not
permit such animal to commit any nuisance. Animals are restricted to household
pets only.
   All recreational vehicle (RV) parks shall adhere to local ordinances
regarding number of dogs per site per Section
4-1A-9 of the Simla Municipal Code. (Ord. 340, 8-13-2024)
7-8-14: GRANDFATHERING:
   This section shall apply to all new recreational vehicle (RV) parks after
September 30, 2024. All parks in existence as of the date of this ordinance
shall adhere to the new regulations only upon any expansion or renovation of
existing facilities.
(Ord. 340, 8-13-2024)
APPENDIX: SPECIALS
Ord./Res. No. Date    Subject         
Ord./Res.  Date    Subject         
No.
   199  12-11-1996  An ordinance authorizing the improvement, extension and betterment of the
                       water system.
   203  6-3-1997    An ordinance authorizing the sale and conveyance of certain real property
                       by the town of Simla in connection with the closure of the town landfill.
                       A resolution to lease certain municipal real property consisting of a
   98-991-5-1999    platted but unopened alley pursuant to the terms of a subdivision
                       development agreement.
                       A resolution finding that the petition of Larry L. Wieman and Leslie
   107-             Wieman seeking annexation of certain real property to the town of Simla
2000       8-8-2000    is in substantial compliance with state and local law and that the
                       subject real property is eligible for annexation to the town of Simla and
                       authorizing the holding of a public hearing.
                       An ordinance annexing a parcel of land in section thirty five (35),
                       township ten (10) south, range sixty (60) west of the sixth principal
   221  9-19-2000   meridian, Elbert County, state of Colorado, to the town of Simla,
                       Colorado, and extending the corporate limits of the town of Simla to
                       include the same.
   228  9-5-2001    An ordinance to lease certain municipal real property to Pillow Kingdom
                       Manufacturing, LLC.
   229  11-6-2001   An ordinance to lease certain municipal real property to J.D. Walker and
                       Denise Walker, doing business as Walker's Country Store.
                       A resolution to submit a ballot question at the regular municipal
                       election on April 2, 2002, calling for the registered electors of the
   115  2-5-2002    town of Simla to vote on a proposed increase in the municipal sales tax,
                       the revenues from such sales tax increase to be designated for law
                       enforcement within the town of Simla, and to establish the ballot
                       question therefor.
   --   10-10-2002  An oral resolution agreement between the town of Simla, county of Elbert,
                       state of Colorado and the Frank King post no. 77 of the American Legion.
                       An ordinance in which the board of trustees of the town of Simla, Elbert
   238  3-4-2003    County, Colorado, do hereby resolve and ordain to lease certain municipal
                       real property to Rick Atwell and Brenda Atwell.
   119- 5-6-2003    A resolution to market and sell certain real property and improvements
2003                   owned by the town of Simla.
                       An ordinance appropriating sums of money to the various funds and
   247  12-7-2004   spending agencies, in the amount and for the purpose as set forth below,
                       for the town of Simla, Colorado, for the 2005 budget year.
                       A resolution summarizing expenditures and revenues for each fund and
   123- 12-7-2004   adopting a budget for the town of Simla, Colorado, for the calendar year
2004                   beginning on the first day of January, 2005 and ending on the last day of
                       December, 2005.
   124-             A resolution levying general property taxes for the year 2005, to help
2004       12-7-2004   the costs of government for the town of Simla, Colorado, Elbert County,
                       for the 2005 budget year.
   249  2-8-2005    An ordinance to lease certain municipal real property to Theodore and
                       Bonnie Hamacher/DBA Hamacher Well Works.
                       A resolution to authorize the mayor of the town of Simla, Colorado, to
   125- 2-22-2005   enter into and sign, on behalf of the town of Simla, Colorado, a certain
2005                   contract to buy and sell real estate concerning the town property located
                       at 325 Pueblo Avenue, Simla, Colorado.
   250  3-5-2005    An ordinance to lease certain municipal real property to Dolores W.
                       Gaddy.
   126- 3-15-2005   A resolution adopting the 2005 Colorado municipal records retention
2005                   schedule for the town of Simla, Colorado.
   127-             A resolution to authorize the sale of the real property and improvements
2005       3-15-2005   located at 325 Pueblo Avenue, Simla, Colorado, to James F. Digby and
                       Jerilea G. Digby.
   128- 7-5-2005    A resolution authorizing the erection of a banner across highway between
2005                   Sioux Avenue and Pueblo Avenue.
   251  8-2-2005    An ordinance to lease certain municipal real property to Daren and Adelia
                       Teller, doing business as Triple T Fuel.
                       An ordinance appropriating sums of money to the various funds and
   253  12-6-2005   spending agencies, in the amount and for the purpose as set forth below,
                       for the town of Simla, Colorado, for the 2006 budget year.
                       A resolution summarizing expenditures and revenues for each fund and
   129- 12-6-2005   adopting a budget for the town of Simla, Colorado, for the calendar year
2005                   beginning on the first day of January, 2006 and ending on the last day of
                       December, 2006.
   130-             A resolution levying general property taxes for the year 2005, to help
2005       12-6-2005   the costs of government for the town of Simla, Colorado, Elbert County,
                       for the 2006 budget year.
                       The board of trustees of the town of Simla, Elbert County, Colorado, does
                       hereby ordain and resolve to present to the eligible voters of the town
                       of Simla the issue of whether or not the town board may allow the
   256  2-7-2006    publication of ordinances by title only rather than by publishing the
                       ordinance in full and the issue of whether or not the town may
                       discontinue publishing the town proceedings relating to the payment of
                       bills and other town expenditures and instead establish an official
                       posting place for the expenditure list.
                       The board of trustees of the town of Simla, Elbert County, Colorado, does
                       hereby ordain and resolve to present to the eligible voters of the town
   257  2-7-2006    of Simla the issue of whether or not the limitations on terms of office
                       of elected members of the town board of trustees and the office of mayor
                       of the town of Simla, Colorado, should be eliminated pursuant to article
                       XVIII, section 11(2) of the Colorado constitution?
   131- 2-7-2006    A resolution of the town of Simla, Colorado, delegating authority and
2005                   responsibility to the town clerk to appoint election judges.
   132-             A resolution of the board of trustees of the town of Simla regarding the
2006       2-7-2006    opening of accounts with Scott Fortney DBA as independent financial
                       solutions.
                       The board of trustees of the town of Simla, Elbert County, Colorado, does
                       hereby resolve to authorize the mayor and the town clerk of the town of
   133- 5-15-2006   Simla, Colorado, to enter into an agreement with and to convey title to
2006                   certain real and personal property owned by the town of Simla to the Big
                       Sandy fire protection district in exchange for firefighting and emergency
                       medical services to be provided to the town of Simla.
                       The board of trustees of the town of Simla, Elbert County, Colorado, does
   134- 5-17-2006   hereby resolve to grant a partial release of its statement of lien claim
2006                   for assessment of subdivision charges concerning the Gold Medal
                       subdivision.
   135- 9-12-2006   A resolution of the board of trustees of the town of Simla regarding the
2006                   accounts for the town of Simla with Farmers State Bank of Calhan.
                       An ordinance appropriating sums of money to the various funds and
   262  12-5-2006   spending agencies, in the amount and for the purpose as set forth below,
                       for the town of Simla, Colorado, for the 2007 budget year.
                       The board of trustees of the town of Simla, Elbert County, Colorado, does
   263  12-5-2006   hereby resolve and ordain to enter into a municipal lease/purchase
                       agreement with Public Capital Corporation, for the lease by the town of
                       Simla of certain water meter reading equipment and software.
                       A resolution summarizing expenditures and revenues for each fund and
   136- 12-5-2006   adopting a budget for the town of Simla, Colorado, for the calendar year
2006                   beginning on the first day of January, 2007 and ending on the last day of
                       December, 2007.
   137-             A resolution levying general property taxes for the year 2007, to help
2006       12-5-2006   the costs of government for the town of Simla, Colorado, Elbert County,
                       for the 2007 budget year.
                       Notice to town of Simla law enforcement officers of the duty to cooperate
   138-             with state and federal officials with regard to enforcement of state and
2007       2-13-2007   federal laws regarding immigration and compliance with reporting
                       requirements to the United States immigration and customs enforcement
                       office.
   139- 10-9-2007   A resolution appropriating additions sums of money to defray expenses in
2007                   excess of amounts budgeted for the town of Simla.
                       An ordinance appropriating sums of money to the various funds and
   265  12-11-2007  spending agencies, in the amount and for the purpose as set forth below,
                       for the town of Simla, Colorado for the 2008 budget year.
                       A resolution summarizing expenditures and revenues for each fund and
   140- 12-11-2007  adopting a budget for the town of Simla, Colorado, for the calendar year
2007                   beginning on the first day of January, 2008 and ending on the last day of
                       December, 2008.
   141-             A resolution levying general property taxes for the year 2008, to help
2007       12-11-2007  the costs of government for the town of Simla, Colorado, Elbert County,
                       for the 2008 budget year.
                       The board of trustees of the town of Simla, Elbert County, Colorado, do
   266  2-12-2008   hereby resolve and ordain to lease certain municipal real property to
                       Deborah Medina.
   142- 2-12-2008   A resolution of the town of Simla, Colorado delegating authority and
2008                   responsibility to the town clerk to appoint election judges.
   143- 8-12-2008   A resolution to adopt land use and control measures to reduce future
2008                   flood losses.
   144- 8-12-2008   A resolution supporting the agreement between the town of Simla and the
2008                   state board of the Great Outdoors Colorado trust fund.
   146- 10-14-2008  A resolution appropriating additional sums of money to defray expenses in
2008                   excess amounts budgeted for the town of Simla, Colorado.
                       An ordinance appropriating sums of money to the various funds and
   270  12-9-2008   spending agencies, in the amount and for the purpose as set forth below,
                       for the town of Simla, Elbert County, Colorado for the 2009 budget year.
                       A resolution summarizing expenditures and revenues for each fund and
   147- 12-9-2008   adopting a budget for the town of Simla, Elbert County, Colorado, for the
2008                   calendar year beginning on the first day of January, 2009 and ending on
                       the last day of December, 2009.
   148-             A resolution levying general property taxes for the year 2009, to help
2008       12-9-2008   the costs of government for the town of Simla, Elbert County, Colorado
                       for the 2009 budget year.
   149- 1-13-2009   A resolution supporting the agreement between the town of Simla and the
2009                   state board of the Great Outdoors Colorado trust fund.
   151- 4-14-2009   A resolution of the town of Simla, Colorado authorizing the use of a
2009                   written form for persons to be added to board meeting agenda.
   152- 4-14-2009   A resolution establishing procedures for designating authorized
2009                   volunteers of the town of Simla.
                       The board of trustees of the town of Simla, Elbert County, Colorado, do
   272  6-9-2009    hereby resolve and ordain to lease certain municipal real property to
                       John and Brenda Traver.
   153- 6-9-2009    Business credit card corporate resolution to borrow money.
2009
                       A resolution amending the 2009 budget of the town of Simla by
   154- 8-8-2009    appropriating funds received from a Wal-Mart community grant for the sum
2009                   of $1000.00 to the public safety fund and authorizing the expenditure
                       thereof.
                       An ordinance appropriating sums of money to the various funds and
   273  12-8-2009   spending agencies, in the amount and for the purpose as set forth below,
                       for the town of Simla, Elbert County, Colorado for the 2010 budget year.
                       A resolution summarizing expenditures and revenues for each fund and
   156- 12-8-2009   adopting a budget for the town of Simla, Elbert County, Colorado, for the
2009                   calendar year beginning on the first day of January, 2010 and ending on
                       the last day of December, 2010.
   157-             A resolution levying general property taxes for the year 2010, to help
2009       12-8-2009   defray the costs of government for the town of Simla, Elbert County,
                       Colorado for the 2010 budget year.
                       The board of trustees of the town of Simla, Elbert County, Colorado, does
   158- 1-12-2010   hereby resolve to establish the cost of permits issued pursuant to Simla
2009                   town code, title 2, chapter 1, section 4, pertaining to transient sales
                       permits, for the year 2010.
                       An ordinance imposing a temporary moratorium on the use of any property
                       located in the town of Simla, Elbert County, Colorado, pertaining to the
                       growth, sale, and distribution of medical marijuana, and upon the
                       submission, acceptance, processing or approval of any application for a
                       license or permit related to the operation of a business that grows,
   276  2-9-2010    sells, or distributes medical marijuana pursuant to the authority granted
                       by article XVIII, section 14 of the Colorado constitution; directing the
                       prompt investigation of the town's regulatory authority over such
                       businesses; declaring the intention of the board of trustees to consider
                       the adoption of appropriate regulations with respect to such businesses
                       if permitted by law.
                       The board of trustees of the town of Simla, Elbert County, Colorado, does
   160- 2-9-2010    hereby resolve to establish the cost of permits issued pursuant to Simla
2010                   town code, title 2, chapter 1, section 4, pertaining to transient sales
                       permits, for the year 2010.
   161- 2-9-2010    A resolution of the town of Simla, Colorado delegating authority and
2010                   responsibility to the town clerk to appoint election judges.
                       An ordinance of the town of Simla annexing a parcel of land located in
   277  3-9-2010    Elbert County, Colorado, known as the town of Simla sewer plant
                       annexation to the town of Simla, Colorado, and extending the corporate
                       limits of the town of Simla to include the described parcel.
   162- 4-13-2010   Appointing municipal officers.
2010
   163- 6-28-2010   Termination of intergovernmental agreement for E911 telephone service and
2010                   dissolution of emergency telephone service authority.
   164- 6-28-2010   Approval of intergovernmental agreement establishing Elbert County
2010                   communication authority.
                       An ordinance to extend the moratorium adopted on February 9, 2010,
                       concerning the use of any property located in the town of Simla, Elbert
                       County, Colorado, pertaining to the growth, sale, and distribution, or
                       any other land uses of medical marijuana, and upon the submission,
   278  7-13-2010   acceptance, processing, or approval of any application for a license or
                       permit related to the operation of a business that grows, sells,
                       distributes, or has any other business relationship to medical marijuana
                       pursuant to the authority granted by article XVIII, section 14 of the
                       Colorado constitution.
                       A resolution summarizing expenditures and revenues for each fund and
   165- 12-14-2010  adopting a budget for the town of Simla, Elbert County, Colorado, for the
2010                   calendar year beginning on the first day of January, 2011 and ending on
                       the last day of December, 2011.
   166-             A resolution levying general property taxes for the year 2011, to help
2010       12-14-2010  defray the costs of government for the town of Simla, Elbert County,
                       Colorado for the 2011 budget year.
                       The board of trustees of the town of Simla, Elbert County, does hereby
   167- 1-11-2011   resolve to establish the cost of permits issued pursuant to Simla town
2011                   code, title 2, chapter 1, section 4, pertaining to transient sales
                       permits for the year 2011.
                       The board of trustees of the town of Simla, Elbert County, Colorado, does
   284  4-12-2011   hereby resolve and ordain to lease certain municipal real property to
                       Marsha K. Sayers.
                       A resolution finding that the petition of James G. Fulmer, Carolyn S.
                       Fulmer, David E. Schuler, and Glenis J. Schuler seeking annexation of
   170- 10-11-2011  certain real property to the town of Simla is in substantial compliance
2011                   with state and local law and that the subject real property is eligible
                       for annexation to the town of Simla and authorizing the holding of a
                       public hearing pursuant to code and statute.
                       An ordinance of the town of Simla annexing a parcel of land located in
   286  11-22-2011  Elbert County, Colorado, known as the Big Sandy Addition to the town of
                       Simla, Colorado, and extending the corporate limits of the town of Simla
                       to include the described parcel.
                       An ordinance appropriating sums of money to the various funds and
   285  12-13-2011  spending agencies, in the amount and for the purpose as set forth below,
                       for the town of Simla, Elbert County, Colorado for the 2012 budget year.
                       A resolution summarizing expenditures and revenues for each fund and
   171- 12-13-2011  adopting a budget for the town of Simla, Elbert County, Colorado, for the
2011                   calendar year beginning on the first day of January, 2012 and ending on
                       the last day of December, 2012.
   172-             A resolution levying general property taxes for the year 2012, to help
2011       12-13-2011  defray the costs of government for the town of Simla, Elbert County,
                       Colorado for the 2012 budget year.
                       An ordinance of the town of Simla approving application for subdivision
                       concerning a parcel of real property annexed into the town of Simla,
   287  1-10-2012   Elbert County, Colorado, approving the legal description of the
                       subdivision, and postponing creation of and hearing on subdivision
                       development agreement.
                       The board of trustees of the town of Simla, Elbert County, does hereby
   173- 1-10-2012   resolve to establish the cost of permits issued pursuant to Simla town
2012                   code, title 2, chapter 1, section 4, pertaining to transient sales
                       permits for the year 2012.
   175-             A resolution of the town of Simla, Elbert County, Colorado delegating
2012       2-14-2012   authority and responsibility to the town clerk to appoint election
                       judges.
   176- 3-13-2012   A joint resolution between Elbert County, Colorado, and the town of
2012                   Simla, Elbert County Colorado, regarding County Road 125.
   177- 4-10-2012   Appointing municipal officers.
2012
                       The board of trustees of the town of Simla, Elbert County, Colorado, does
   178- 8-14-2012   hereby resolve to authorize the mayor of the town of Simla, Colorado, to
2012                   enter into and sign, on behalf of the town of Simla, Colorado, a certain
                       development agreement with the Big Sandy school district 100J.
                       A resolution of the town of Simla water activity enterprise approving a
                       loan between the Colorado water resources and power development authority
                       and the town of Simla, Colorado, acting by and through its town of Simla
                       water activity enterprise in the principal amount of not to exceed
                       $116,000 for the purpose of financing improvements to the town of Simla
                       sewer facilities; authorizing the form and execution of a loan agreement
   179- 10-16-2012  and a governmental agency bond evidencing the loan; providing that the
2012                   governmental agency bond shall be payable only from revenues of the sewer
                       system of the town of Simla water activity enterprise; approving a grant
                       in an amount not to exceed $250,000 from the Colorado water resources and
                       power development authority and the town of Simla, Colorado, acting by
                       and through its town of Simla water activity enterprise authorizing the
                       form and execution of a grant agreement; and prescribing other details in
                       connection therewith.
                       An ordinance appropriating sums of money to the various funds and
   289  12-11-2012  spending agencies, in the amount and for the purpose as set forth below,
                       for the town of Simla, Elbert County, Colorado for the 2013 budget year.
   180-             A resolution appropriating additional sums of money to defray expenses in
2012       12-11-2012  excess of amounts budgeted for the town of Simla, Elbert County,
                       Colorado.
                       A resolution summarizing expenditures and revenues for each fund and
   181- 12-11-2012  adopting a budget for the town of Simla, Elbert County, Colorado, for the
2012                   calendar year beginning on the first day of January, 2013 and ending on
                       the last day of December, 2013.
   182-             A resolution levying general property taxes for the year 2013, to help
2012       12-11-2012  defray the costs of government for the town of Simla, Elbert County,
                       Colorado for the 2013 budget year.
   183- 12-11-2012  A resolution of the board of trustees of the town of Simla regarding the
2012                   sewer reserve account with Farmers State Bank Of Calhan.
   184- 12-11-2012  A resolution of the board of trustees of the town of Simla regarding the
2012                   opening of account with Farmers State Bank Of Calhan.
   185-             A resolution of the board of trustees of the town of Simla regarding the
2012       12-11-2012  signing requisitions for the Colorado department of public health and
                       environment during the sewer project.
                       The board of trustees of the town of Simla, Elbert County, Colorado, does
   186- 1-8-2013    hereby resolve to establish the cost of permits issued pursuant to Simla
2013                   town code, title 2, chapter 1, section 4, pertaining to transient sales
                       permits for the year 2013.
                       A resolution of the board of trustees of the town of Simla, Elbert
   188- 1-8-2013    County, Colorado to acknowledge the 2013 trash rates contracted with
2013                   Dan's Trash Service pursuant to title 3, chapter 3, of the Simla town
                       code.
                       The board of trustees of the town of Simla, Elbert County, Colorado, does
   293  6-11-2013   hereby resolve and ordain to lease certain municipal real property to
                       Donald Homan and Karry Homan.
   190-             A resolution authorizing town of Simla to join with other local
2013       6-11-2013   governments as a participant in the Colorado local government liquid
                       asset trust (the "trust") in order to pool funds for investment.
                       A resolution of the board of trustees of the town of Simla regarding the
   191- 7-9-2013    banking accounts for general fund building fund, general fund equipment
2013                   reserve fund and general fund police reserve fund with Farmers State Bank
                       Of Calhan.
                       An ordinance appropriating sums of money to the various funds and
   295  12-10-2013  spending agencies, in the amount and for the purpose as set forth below,
                       for the town of Simla, Elbert County, Colorado for the 2014 budget year.
                       A resolution summarizing expenditures and revenues for each fund and
   193- 12-10-2013  adopting a budget for the town of Simla, Elbert County, Colorado, for the
2013                   calendar year beginning on the first day of January, 2014 and ending on
                       the last day of December, 2014.
   194-             A resolution levying general property taxes for the year 2014, to help
2013       12-10-2013  defray the costs of government for the town of Simla, Elbert County,
                       Colorado for the 2014 budget year.
                       The board of trustees of the town of Simla, Elbert County, does hereby
   195- 1-14-2014   resolve to establish the cost of permits issued pursuant to Simla town
2014                   code, title 2, chapter 1, section 4, pertaining to transient sales
                       permits for the year 2014.
   197-             A resolution of the board of trustees of the town of Simla to acknowledge
2014       1-14-2014   trash rates contracted with Dan's Trash Service for 2014 pursuant to
                       title 3, chapter 3, of the Simla town code.
   199- 1-14-2014   Amended agreement between the town of Simla and DTC Energy Group, Inc.
2014
   200- 2-11-2014   A resolution of the town of Simla, Colorado delegating authority and
2014                   responsibility to the town clerk to appoint election judges.
                       The board of trustees of the town of Simla, Elbert County, Colorado, does
   201-             hereby resolve to authorize the mayor and the clerk of the town of Simla,
2014       2-11-2014   Colorado, to enter into and sign, on behalf of the town of Simla,
                       Colorado, a certain agreement for the acquisition of vacant lots to be
                       purchased from the Big Sandy school district 100-J.
   203- 4-21-2014   A resolution of the town of Simla, Elbert County, Colorado does resolve
2014                   to appoint the town administrator.
   204- 4-21-2014   A resolution of the town of Simla, Elbert County, Colorado does resolve
2014                   to appoint the town clerk and treasurer.
   205- 4-21-2014   A resolution of the town of Simla, Elbert County, Colorado does resolve
2014                   to appoint the town attorney.
   206- 4-21-2014   A resolution of the town of Simla, Elbert County, Colorado does resolve
2014                   to appoint the municipal judge.
   207- 4-21-2014   A resolution of the town of Simla, Elbert County, Colorado does resolve
2014                   to appoint the police chief.
   208-             A resolution of the board of trustees of the town of Simla regarding the
2014       5-13-2014   signing requisitions for the Colorado department of public health and
                       environment during the sewer project.
   209- 4-30-2014   A resolution of the Town of Simla, Elbert County, Colorado does resolve
2014                   to appoint an interim Police Chief.
   210- 5-13-2014   A resolution of the Board of Trustees of the Town of Simla regarding the
2014                   signing of the Furniture Row lease agreement.
                       The Board of Trustees of the Town of Simla, Elbert County, Colorado, does
   211-             hereby resolve to authorize the Mayor and the Town Clerk of the Town of
2014       7-22-2014   Simla, Colorado, to enter into and sign, on behalf of the Town of Simla,
                       Colorado, a certain environmental covenant concerning the former Simla
                       landfill.
                       A resolution authorizing the Town of Simla Board of Trustees to approve a
   212- 8-12-2014   special event permit without notification to the State licensing
2014                   authority for its approval or disapproval in accordance with C.R.S. §12-
                       48-107(5).
   213- 8-12-2014   A resolution of the Town of Simla, Elbert County, Colorado does resolve
2014                   to appoint the Police Chief.
                       An ordinance appropriating sums of money to the various funds and
   303  12-16-2015  spending agencies, in the amount and for the purpose as set forth below,
                       for the Town of Simla, Elbert County, Colorado for the 2016 budget year.
                       An ordinance appropriating sums of money to the various funds and
   305  12-14-2016  spending agencies, in the amount and for the purpose as set forth below,
                       for the Town of Simla, Elbert County, Colorado for the 2017 budget year.
                       An ordinance of the Town of Simla annexing a parcel of land located in
   306  5-9-2017    Elbert County, Colorado, known as the Big Sandy Addition No. 2 to the
                       Town of Simla, Colorado, and extending the corporate limits of the Town
                       of Simla to include the described parcels.
                       An ordinance appropriating sums of money to the various funds and
307        12-12-2017  spending agencies, in the amount and for the purpose as set forth below,
                       for the Town of Simla, Elbert County, Colorado for the 2018 budget year.
                       An ordinance of the Town of Simla, Elbert County, Colorado, to amend the
308        12-12-2017  Simla Municipal Code concerning the duties of Town law enforcement
                       officers.
                       An ordinance of the Town of Simla, Elbert County, Colorado, to amend the
                       Simla Municipal Code concerning mobile homes, manufactured housing or
309        1-9-2018    homes, modular homes, and tiny houses, both as to definition and
                       permitted location, and to amend foundation requirements for manufactured
                       homes. And to amend the Simla Municipal Code to revise minimum lot area
                       and site dimensions and restrictions as to structure density.
                       An ordinance by the Board of Trustees of the Town of Simla, Elbert
310        2-13-2018   County, Colorado, to revoke and rescind title 4, chapter 2, section 1 of
                       the Simla Town Code pertaining to weapons.
                       Be it ordained by the Board of Trustees of the Town of Simla, Elbert
                       County, Colorado, to amend the Town Code of Simla, Colorado, title 6,
                       chapter 3, to add section 3D, concerning the imposition of regulations to
311        7-10-2018   survey all service connections in the Town water system and to implement
                       a program to determine if a water connection is a cross-connection, to
                       require backflow prevention, and to assess penalties for violations
                       thereof.
                       The Board of Trustees of the Town of Simla, Elbert County, Colorado, do
312        8-14-2018   hereby resolve and ordain to lease certain Municipal real property to
                       Rebecca L. Spatter.
                       An ordinance appropriating sums of money to the various funds and
313        11-13-2018  spending agencies, in the amount and for the purpose as set forth below,
                       for the Town of Simla, Elbert County, Colorado for the 2019 budget year.
                       The Board of Trustees of the Town of Simla, Elbert County, Colorado, does
314        1-8-2019    hereby ordain and resolve to amend title 5, chapter 1, so as to add a new
                       subsection D, to add specific speeding limit for school zone and to
                       provide penalties for the violation thereof.
                       The Board of Trustees of the Town of Simla, Elbert County, Colorado, does
315        1-8-2019    hereby ordain and resolve to amend title 5, chapter 1, so as to add a new
                       subsection to allow angle parking on certain Town streets.
                       An ordinance appropriating sums of money to the various funds and
317        12-10-2019  spending agencies, in the amount and for the purpose as set forth below,
                       for the Town of Simla, Elbert County, Colorado for the 2020 budget year.
                       An ordinance approving the sale of certain nongonvernmental real property
318        3-10-2020   for a certain consideration in accordance with an agreement for the sale
                       and purchase of agricultural real property.
                       An ordinance appropriating sums of money to the various funds and
320        12-8-2020   spending agencies, in the amount and for the purpose as set forth below,
                       for the Town of Simla, Elbert County, Colorado for the 2021 budget year.
                       An ordinance annexing a parcel of land located in Elbert County,
324        9-14-2021   Colorado, known as the Fox Street Addition to the Town of Simla,
                       Colorado, and extending the corporate limits of the Town of Simla to
                       include the described parcel.
                       An ordinance appropriating sums of money to the various funds and
325        12-14-2021  spending agencies, in the amount and for the purpose as set forth below,
                       for the Town of Simla, Elbert County, Colorado for the 2022 budget year.
                       Appropriating sums of money to the various funds and spending agencies,
342        12-10-2024  in the amount and for the purchase as set forth below, for the Town of
                       Simla, Elbert County, Colorado for the 2025 budget year.
                      
 
 
