TOWN OF WIGGINS, COLORADO
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2025 S-1 Supplement contains:
Local legislation through Ord. 02-2025, passed 3-12-2025
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street, Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
Tel: (800) 445-5588
Internet: http://www.amlegal.com
ADOPTING ORDINANCE
ORDINANCE NO. 02-2024
AN ORDINANCE ADOPTING BY REFERENCE AND ENACTING A NEW MUNICIPAL CODE FOR THE
TOWN OF WIGGINS; PROVIDING FOR THE REPEAL OF CERTAIN ORDINANCES NOT INCLUDED
THEREIN; PROVIDING FOR THE ADOPTION OF SECONDARY CODES BY REFERENCE; PROVIDING
A PENALTY FOR THE VIOLATION THEREOF; PROVIDING FOR THE MANNER OF AMENDING SUCH
CODE; AND PROVIDING WHEN SUCH CODE AND THIS ORDINANCE SHALL BECOME EFFECTIVE.
   WHEREAS, Town staff and American Legal Publishing Corporation have prepared
a codification of the general and permanent ordinances of the Town of Wiggins;
and
   WHEREAS, the Board of Trustees desires to adopt the new code of ordinances;
and
   WHEREAS, the Board of Trustees after proper notice has held a public hearing
on this ordinance providing for the adoption of the new Town of Wiggins Code of
Ordinances.
   NOW THEREFORE BE IT ORDAINED BY THE BOARD OF TRUSTEES OF THE TOWN OF
WIGGINS, COLORADO:
   Section 1.   The code entitled the Town of Wiggins, Colorado Code of
Ordinances, published by American Legal Publishing Corporation, consisting of
Titles I through XV, and the tables and indices thereto, each inclusive (the
"Code"), is hereby adopted.
   Section 2.   All ordinances of a general and permanent nature enacted on or
before the adoption date of this Ordinance, which are inconsistent with the
provisions of the Town of Wiggins, Colorado Code of Ordinances, to the extent
of such inconsistency, are hereby repealed.
   Section 3.   The repeal established in Section 2 of this Ordinance shall not
be construed to revive any ordinance or part thereof that had been previously
repealed by any ordinance which is repealed by this Ordinance.
   Section 4.   The following secondary codes were previously adopted by
reference and incorporated in the Town of Wiggins, Colorado Code of Ordinances.
One (1) copy of each is on file in the Town Clerk's office:
      (1)   The Model Traffic Code for Colorado, 2020 edition, promulgated and
published by the Colorado Department of Transportation, Traffic Engineering and
Safety Branch, as adopted and amended in Chapter 70 of the Code.
      (2)   The International Building Code, 2018 Edition, as published by the
International Code Council, as adopted and amended in Chapter 151 of the Code.
      (3)   The International Residential Code, 2018 Edition, as published by
the International Code Council, as adopted and amended in Chapter 151 of the
Code.
      (4)   The International Mechanical Code, 2018 Edition, as published by
the International Code Council, as adopted and amended in Chapter 151 of the
Code.
      (5)   The International Fuel Gas Code, 2018 Edition, as published by the
International Code Council, as adopted and amended in Chapter 151 of the Code.
      (6)   The International Energy Conservation Code, 2018 Edition, as
published by the International Code Council, as adopted and amended in Chapter
151 of the Code.
      (7)   The International Property Maintenance Code, 2018 Edition, as
published by the International Code Council, as adopted and amended in Chapter
151 of the Code.
      (8)   The International Existing Building Code, 2018 Edition, as
published by the International Code Council, as adopted and amended in Chapter
151 of the Code.
      (9)   The International Swimming Pool and Spa Code, 2018 Edition, as
published by the International Code Council, as adopted and amended in Chapter
151 of the Code.
      (10)   International Plumbing Code, 2018 Edition, as published by the
International Code Council, as adopted and amended in Chapter 151 of the Code.
      (11)   National Electrical Code NFPA 70, 2020 Edition, as promulgated by
the National Fire Protection Association, Inc., as adopted and amended in
Chapter 151 of the Code.
   Section 5.   The penalties provided by the Town of Wiggins, Colorado Code of
Ordinances are hereby adopted as follows:
      § 10.99 General Penalty (Chapter 10, General Provisions)
         (A)   Violations. It is a violation of this code for any person to do
any act which is forbidden or declared to be unlawful or to fail to do or
perform any act required in this code.
         (B)   General penalty for violation.
            (1)   Unless otherwise provided in this code or by ordinance,
whenever in this code or any other ordinance, resolution or rule of the town,
the doing of any act is required, prohibited or declared to be unlawful or an
offense or a misdemeanor, and no definite fine or specific penalty is provided
for a violation thereof, any person who shall be convicted of or plead guilty
or no contest to a violation of any such provision of this code or other
ordinance, resolution or rule of the town, whether now in existence or
hereinafter enacted, shall be punished by a fine of not more than $2,650, as
shall be adjusted for inflation annually in accordance with C.R.S. § 13-10-113,
except as hereinafter provided in division (D) below. In addition, such person
shall pay all costs and expenses in the case, including attorney fees. Every
day such violation continues shall constitute a separate offense.
            (2)   Whenever in this code or any ordinance of the town a minimum
but not a maximum fine or penalty is imposed, the court may, in its discretion,
fine the offender any sum exceeding the minimum fine or penalty so imposed, but
not exceeding the maximum fine set forth in division (B)(l) above.
            (3)   The suspension or revocation of any license, permit or other
privilege conferred by the town shall not be regarded as a penalty for the
purposes of this code.
            ( 4)   All penalties in codes adopted by reference in this code are
hereby superseded by this section.
         (C)   Application of penalties to juveniles. Every person who, at the
time of commission of the offense, was at least ten but not yet 18 years of
age, and who is subsequently convicted of or pleads guilty or nolo contendere
to a violation of any provision of this code, shall be punished by a fine of
not more than the maximum fine set forth in division (B) above per violation or
count. Any voluntary plea of guilty or nolo contendere to the original charge
or to a lesser or substituted charge shall subject the person so pleading to
all fines and/or penalties applicable to the original charge. Nothing in this
division (C) shall be construed to prohibit confinement in an appropriate
facility, at the time of charging, of a juvenile violating any section of this
code in accordance with state law.
         (D)   Penalty for violations of ordinances adopted after adoption of
code. Any person who violates any provision of any ordinance of a permanent and
general nature passed or adopted after adoption of this code, either before or
after it has been inserted in this code by a supplement, shall, upon conviction
thereof, be punishable as provided by division (A) above unless another penalty
is specifically provided for the violation.
         (E)   Interpretation of unlawful acts. Whenever in this code any act
or omission is made unlawful, it is also unlawful to cause, allow, permit, aid,
abet or suffer such unlawful act or omission. Concealing or in any manner
aiding in the concealing of any unlawful act or omission is similarly unlawful.
      § 33.14 Violations (Chapter 33, Taxation, Use Tax)
         It is a violation of this subchapter for any person subject to the tax
levied by this subchapter to refuse to make any return provided to be made; to
make any false or fraudulent return or any false statements in any return; to
fail or refuse to make payment to the Town Manager of any taxes due the town;
or in any manner to evade the payment of the tax, or any part thereof imposed
by this subchapter; or for any person to aid or abet another in any attempt to
evade the payment of the tax imposed by this subchapter.
      § 33.99 Penalty (Chapter 33, Taxation, Lodging Occupation Tax)
         (A)   Any person convicted of a violation of this chapter shall be
punished as provided in § 10.99 of this code. (B) It is a violation of §§ 33.01
through 33.14 for any person subject to the tax levied by §§ 33.01 through
33.14 to refuse to make any return provided to be made; to make any false or
fraudulent return or any false statements in any return; to fail or refuse to
make payment to the Town Manager of any taxes due the town; or in any manner to
evade the payment of the tax, or any part thereof imposed by §§ 33.01 through
33.14; or for any person to aid or abet another in any attempt to evade the
payment of the tax imposed by §§ 33.01 through 33.14. Any person convicted of a
violation of §§ 33.01 through 33.14 shall be punished by a fine of not more
than $2,650 (as adjusted for inflation from time to time, pursuant to C.R.S. §
13-10-113). Each day a violation exists shall be considered a separate
punishable violation.
         (C)   (1)   Any person convicted of a violation of §§ 33.25 through
33.40 shall be punished by a fine of not more than $2,650 (as adjusted for
inflation from time to time, pursuant to C.R.S. § 13-10-113). Each day, or
portion thereof, that any violation of §§ 33.25 through 33.40 continues shall
constitute a separate offense.
            (2)   A penalty in the amount of 10% of the tax due or the sum of
$10, whichever is greater, shall be imposed upon the vendor and become due in
the event the tax is not remitted by the tenth day of the month as required by
§§ 33.25 through 33.40, or such other date as prescribed in writing by the Town
Clerk, and 1.5% interest shall accrue each month on the unpaid balance. The
Town Clerk is hereby authorized to waive for good cause shown any penalty
assessed.
            (3)   Any part of a deficiency is due to negligence or intentional
disregard of the provisions of §§ 33.25 through 33.40 or rules and regulations
concerning the same, but without intent to defraud, then there shall be added
10% of the total amount of the deficiency. If any part of the deficiency is due
to fraud with the intent to evade the tax, then there shall be added 50% of
total amount of the deficiency. The penalty under this division (C)(3) shall be
in addition to the penalty under division (C)(2) above, and, in all cases, the
whole amount of the unpaid tax, together with all penalties and interest, shall
become due and payable ten days after written notice and demand by the Town
Clerk.
            (4)   If any vendor fails to make a return and pay the tax imposed
by §§ 33.25 through 33.40, the town may make an estimate, based upon available
information of the amount of tax due and add the penalties and interest
provided above. The town shall mail notice of such estimate, by certified mail,
to the vendor at his or her address as indicated in the town records. Such
estimate shall thereupon become an assessment, and such assessment shall be
final and due and payable from the taxpayer to the Town Clerk ten days from the
date of service of the notice or the date of mailing by certified mail;
provided, however, that within the ten-day period such delinquent taxpayer may
petition the Town Clerk for a modification of such assessment and shall, within
such ten-day period, furnish the Town Clerk the documents, facts and figures
showing the correct amount of the taxes due and owing.
            (5)   Such petition shall be in writing and the facts and figures
submitted shall be submitted either in writing or orally, and shall be given by
the taxpayer under penalty or perjury. Thereupon, the Town Clerk may modify
such assessment in accordance with the facts submitted in order to effectuate
the provisions of §§ 33.25 through 33.40. Such assessment shall be considered
the final order of the Town Clerk, and may be reviewed under the Rule 106(a)(4)
of the Colorado Rules of Civil Procedure, provided that the taxpayer gives
written notice to the Town Clerk of its intention to seek review within ten
days after receipt of the final order of assessment.
      § 50.99 Penalty (Chapter 50, Public Utilities)
         (A) Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to § 10.99 of this code of
ordinances.
         (B)   Any person convicted of violating any of the provisions of §§
50.01 through 50.04 shall be punished by a fine of not less than $250 and not
more than $2,650, as shall be adjusted for inflation from time to time,
pursuant to C.R.S. § 13-10-113. Each act or omission in violation of one or
more of the provisions of §§ 50.01 through 50.04 shall be deemed a separate
violation for each and every day that such act(s) or omission(s) occur(s).
      § 52.99 Penalty (Chapter 52, Water Conservation)
         (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter may be
punished by a minimum fine of $250 and a maximum fine of $2,650, as shall be
adjusted for inflation from time to time pursuant to C.R.S. § 13-10-113. Each
day that a violation of this chapter occurs is a separate offense.
         (B)   (1)   Upon a third and each subsequent conviction for such an
offense, and in addition to such fine, the town may discontinue water service
to the property served, or the town may install a flow restriction device, at
the expense of the customer, upon the service line to the property served to
limit water service to that necessary for health and sanitary purposes only.
            (2)   At least ten days' notice and an opportunity to be heard
before the Town Manager shall be given prior to each discontinuance or
restriction of water service pursuant to this chapter.
      § 53.00 Penalty (Chapter 53, Backflow and Cross Connections)
         Any person convicted of violating any of the provisions of this
chapter shall be punished by a fine of not less than $150 and not more than
$2,650, as shall be adjusted for inflation from time to time pursuant to C.R.S.
§ 13-10-113. Each act or omission in violation of one or more of the provisions
of this chapter shall be deemed a separate violation for each and every day
that such act(s) or omission(s) occur.
      § 70.07 Violations; Traffic Offenses (Chapter 70, Model Traffic Code)
         The violation of the following sections of the Model Traffic Code, as
adopted herein, shall constitute a criminal traffic offense and shall be
punishable by a fine not exceeding $2,650, as shall be adjusted for inflation
from time to time pursuant to C.R.S. § 13-10-113, or by imprisonment of not
more than 364 days, or by both such fine and imprisonment:
         (A)   Section 607 of the Model Traffic Code, interference with
official devices;
         (B)   Section 705 of the Model Traffic Code, operation on approach of
emergency vehicles;
         (C)   Section 1101 of the Model Traffic Code, where the speed as
driven is 24 mph or more over the lawful speed limit;
         (D)   Section 1105 of the Model Traffic Code, speed contest;
         (E)   Section 1401 of the Model Traffic Code, reckless driving;
         (F)   Section 1402(2) of the Model Traffic Code, careless driving, if
the person's actions are the proximate cause of bodily injury or death to
another;
         (G)   Section 1409 of the Model Traffic Code, compulsory insurance;
         (H)   Section 1413 of the Model Traffic Code, eluding or attempting to
elude a police officer;
         (I)   Section 1703 of the Model Traffic Code, parties to a crime; and
         (J)   Section 1903 of the Model Traffic Code, stopping for school
buses.
      § 70.06 Violations; Traffic Infractions (Chapter 70, Model Traffic Code)
         (A)   (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person to violate any of the
provisions of this chapter and the Model Traffic Code as adopted herein. Except
as set forth in § 70.07, violations of the Model Traffic Code are hereby deemed
non-criminal traffic infractions.
            (2)   A traffic infraction shall be a civil matter for which
punishment by imprisonment shall not be available, for which a penalty
assessment notice may be issued and for which is punishable by a maximum fine
of $500.
         (B)   For any violation of any provision of this chapter and the Model
Traffic Code as adopted hereby which is a traffic infraction, no trial by jury
shall be available, no arrest warrant shall issue for failure to appear or to
pay, no privilege of self-incrimination shall apply, the standard of proof
shall be a preponderance of the evidence and the conduct of all proceedings
applicable to such a violation shall otherwise be in conformity with those
generally applicable to civil matters.
         (C)   The Municipal Court shall, in addition to any other notice, by
published order to be prominently posted in a place where fines are to be paid,
specify by suitable schedules the number of fines to be imposed for violations,
designating each violation specifically in the schedules. Such fines will be
within the limits set by ordinance.
         (D)   For any violation of any provision of this chapter and the Model
Traffic Code as adopted herein which is a traffic infraction, the Municipal
Court may enter a judgment of liability by default against the defendant for
failure to appear or to pay, and may assess such penalties, together with such
court costs and surcharges, as are established by law.
      § 70.99 Penalty (Chapter 70, Model Traffic Code)
         Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to § 10.99 of this code of
ordinances.
      § 71.99 Penalty (Chapter 71, Recreational Vehicles, Golf Carts)
         (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to § 10.99 of this code of
ordinances.
         (B)   (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person to violate §§ 71.01
through 71.05. A violation of §§ 71.01 through 71.05 is hereby deemed a non-
criminal traffic infraction. A traffic infraction shall be a civil matter for
which punishment by imprisonment shall not be available, for which a penalty
assessment notice may be issued and for which is punishable by a maximum fine
of $999.
            (2)   For any violation of §§ 71.01 through 71.05, no trial by jury
shall be available, no arrest warrant shall issue for failure to appear or to
pay, no privilege of self incrimination shall apply, the standard of proof
shall be a preponderance of the evidence and the conduct of all proceedings
applicable to such a violation shall otherwise be in conformity with those
generally applicable to civil matters.
            (3)   For any violation of §§ 71.01 through 71.05, the court may
enter a judgment of liability by default against the defendant for failure to
appear or to pay, and may assess such penalties, together with such court costs
and surcharges, as are established by law.
            (4)   Upon a third violation of §§ 71.01 through 71.05 within 12
consecutive months, the registration for that golf cart shall be revoked for a
period of 12 months and shall not be reinstated until court costs have been
paid and a reinstatement fee of $10 has been paid, which such reinstatement fee
may be adjusted in the future by a resolution of the Board of Trustees.
      § 90.99 Penalty (Chapter 90, Animals)
         (A)   Any person convicted of a violation of this chapter shall be
punished as provided in§ 10.99 of this code.
         (B)   In addition to the foregoing penalties, any person who violates
this chapter shall pay all expenses, including shelter, food, handling,
veterinary care and expert testimony fees necessitated by enforcement of this
chapter.
      § 91.999 Penalty (Chapter 91, Health and Safety, Nuisances)
         Any person convicted of a violation of this chapter shall be punished
as provided in § 10.99 ofthis code.
      § 92.99 Penalty (Chapter 92, Abandoned and Junk Vehicles)
         Any person convicted of a violation of this chapter shall be punished
as provided in § 10.99 of this code.
      § 93.99 Penalty (Chapter 93, Streets and Sidewalks)
         Any person convicted of a violation of this chapter shall be punished
as provided in § 10.99 of this code.
      § 94.99 Penalty (Chapter 94, Fire Prevention)
         Any person convicted of a violation of this chapter shall be punished
as provided in § 10.99 of this code.
      § 95.99 Penalty (Chapter 95, Alarm Systems)
         Any person convicted of a violation of this chapter shall be punished
as provided in § 10.99 of this code.
      § 110.99 Penalty (Chapter 110, Licensing Regulations)
         (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to § 10.99 of this code of
ordinances.
         (B)   Any person convicted of violating any of the provisions of §§
110.01 through 110.14 shall be punished by a fine of not more than $2,650, as
shall be adjusted for inflation from time to time pursuant to C.R.S. § 13-10-
113. Each act or omission in violation of one or more of the provisions of §§
110.01 through 110.14 shall be deemed a separate violation for each and every
day that such act(s) or omission(s) occur.
         (C)   (1)   It shall be unlawful for any contractor to fail to obtain
a permit of inspection services when required.
            (2)   It shall be unlawful for any contractor licensed under §§
110.25 through 110.34 to, without good cause, abandon any contract or
undertaking, or to make material departure from the town-approved plans and
specifications for any contract or undertaking.
            (3)   It shall be unlawful for any contractor licensed under the
provisions of §§ 110.25 through 110.34 to violate any provision of §§ 110.25
through 110.34; or to refuse to obey any order issued, or neglect to pay any
fee assessed, under authority of §§ 110.25 through 110 .34.
            (4)   It shall be unlawful for any person to erect, construct,
enlarge, alter, repair, move, improve, convert, demolish, equip, use, occupy or
maintain any building or structure in the town, or to cause such work to be
done, contrary to or in violation of any provision of §§ 110.25 through 110.34.
            (5)   It shall be unlawful for a contractor to be careless or
negligent in obtaining minimum safety measures, including appliances, apparatus
and equipment, to protect workers and the public.
            (6)   Any person convicted of violating any of the provisions of §§
110.25 through 110.34 shall be punished by a fine of not more than $2,650, as
shall be adjusted for inflation from time to time pursuant to C.R.S. § 13-10-
113 or by imprisonment for not more than one year or by both such fine and
imprisonment. Each act or omission in violation of one or more of the
provisions of §§ 110.25 through 110.34 shall be deemed a separate violation for
each and every day that such act(s) or omission(s) occur.
      § 111.99 Penalty (Chapter 111, Peddlers, Solicitors and Vendors)
         Any person convicted of a violation of this chapter shall be punished
as provided in § 10.99 of this code.
      § 113.99 Penalty (Chapter 113, Marijuana)
         (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter shall be
subject to § 10.99 of this code of ordinances.
         (B)   The operation of a medical marijuana business or a retail
marijuana business may be enjoined by the town in an action brought in a court
of competent jurisdiction.
      § 130.99 Penalty (Chapter 130, Offenses Against Property)
         Any person convicted of a violation of this chapter shall be punished
as provided in § 10.99 of this code.
      § 131.99 Penalty (Chapter 131, Offenses Against Public Authority)
         Any person convicted of a violation of this chapter shall be punished
as provided in § 10.99 of this code.
      § 132.99 Penalty (Chapter 132, Offenses Against Persons)
         Any person convicted of a violation of this chapter shall be punished
as provided in § 10.99 of this code.
      § 133.99 Penalty (Chapter 133, Offenses Against Peace)
         Any person convicted of a violation of this chapter shall be punished
as provided in § 10.99 of this code.
      § 134.99 Penalty (Chapter 134, Offenses Involving Minors)
         Any person convicted of a violation of this chapter shall be punished
as provided in § 10.99 of this code.
      § 151.99 Penalty (Chapter 151, Building Regulations)
         Any person, firm, building superintendent, building manager,
contractor, contractor's superintendent, corporation or other entity who
violates any of the provisions of this Chapter shall be deemed guilty of a
misdemeanor and of a separate offense for each and every day or portion thereof
during which any violation continues, and shall be punished by a fine of not
more than the maximum fine set forth in § 10.99 of this code.
      § 152.99 Penalty (Chapter 152, Flood Damage Prevention)
         No structure or land shall hereafter be constructed, located,
extended, converted or altered without full compliance with the terms of this
chapter and other applicable regulations. Violation of the provisions of this
chapter, by failure to comply with any of its requirements (including
violations of conditions and safeguards established in connection with
conditions), shall constitute a misdemeanor. Any person who violates this
chapter or fails to comply with any of its requirements shall, upon conviction
thereof, be punished as set forth in § 10.99 of this code. Nothing herein
contained shall prevent the town from taking such other lawful action as is
necessary to prevent or remedy any violation.
      § 153.999 Penalty (Chapter 153, Land Development Code)
         (A)   Any person convicted of violating the provisions of this chapter
in the Town Municipal Court may be fined an amount not to exceed $1,000.
         (B)   Any person, firm, building superintendent, building manager,
contractor, contractor's superintendent, corporation or other entity who
violated any of the provisions of § 153.017, including, but not limited to,
failing to obtain a building permit, shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor
and of a separate offense for each and every day or portion thereof during
which any violation continues, and shall be punished by a fine of not more than
$2,650.
         (C)   Violations of the provisions of this chapter or failure to
comply with any of its requirements, including violations of any conditions and
safeguards established in connection with grants of variances or special use or
conditional use permits, shall constitute a misdemeanor, punishable by a fine
of up to $1,000. Any agreement to sell or transfer lots in a subdivision before
the final plat is approved by the town will constitute a separate violation for
each lot sold or agreed to be sold. Each day of violation will constitute a
separate offense.
            (3)   (a)   Any act constituting a violation of the provisions of
this chapter or a failure to comply with any of its requirements, including
violations of any conditions and safeguards established in connection with the
grants of variances or special use or conditional use permits, shall also
subject the offender to a civil penalty of $25.
               (b)   If the offender fails to pay this penalty within ten days
after being cited for a violation, the penalty may be recovered by the town in
a civil action in the nature of debt. A civil penalty may not be appealed to
the Board of Adjustment if the offender was sent a final notice of violation
and did not take an appeal to the Board of Adjustment within the prescribed
time.
            (4)   This chapter may also be enforced by any appropriate
equitable action.
            (5)   Each day that any violation continues after notification by
the Administrator that such violation exists shall be considered a separate
offense for purposes of the penalties and remedies specified in this section.
            (6)   In addition to any other penalty imposed by this chapter for
a violation of the provisions of this chapter, the town reserves and maintains
the continued right to abate violations of this chapter.
            (7)   Any one, all or any combination of the foregoing penalties
and remedies may be used to enforce this chapter.
         (D)   (1)   Whoever, being the owner or agent of the owner of any land
located within a subdivision, transfers or sells, or agrees to sell or
negotiates to sell, any land by reference to or exhibition of or by use of a
plat of a subdivision within the town before such plat has been approved by the
Planning Commission and recorded or filed in the office of the County Clerk and
Recorder shall pay a penalty of $1,000 to the town for each lot or parcel so
transferred, or sold, or agreed or negotiated to be sold.
            (2)   The description of such lot or parcel by metes and bounds in
the instrument of transfer or other document used in the process of selling or
transferring shall not exempt the transaction from such penalties or from the
remedies provided in this section. The town may enjoin such transfer or sale or
agreement by action for injunction brought in any court of competent
jurisdiction and may recover the penalty by civil action in any court of
competent jurisdiction.
         (E)   Violation of § 153.018 is a misdemeanor with a possible fine of
up to $1,000.
         (F)   Violations of the provisions of § 153.069 or failure to comply
with any of its requirements, shall constitute a misdemeanor, punishable by a
fine of up to $1,000.
      § 154.99 PENALTY (Chapter 154, Trees)
         Any person violating any provision of this chapter shall be, upon
conviction or a plea of guilty, subject to a fine not to exceed $300.
   Section 6.   Additions or amendments to the Code, when passed in the form as
to indicate the intention of the Town to make the same a part of the Code,
shall be deemed to be incorporated in the Code, so that reference to the Code
includes the additions and amendments.
   Section 7.   Ordinances adopted after this Ordinance that amend or refer to
ordinances that have been codified in the Code shall be construed as if they
amend or refer to those provisions of the Code.
   Section 8.   If any paragraph, section, sub-section, sentence, clause or
phrase of this Ordinance is, for any reason, held to be invalid,
unconstitutional and/or unenforceable, such provisions shall be deemed to be
separate, distinct and independent and the remaining provisions of this
Ordinance shall continue in full force and effect.
   Section 9.   This Ordinance shall become effective thirty (30) days after
publication thereof as provided by Colorado Revised Statutes § 31-16-105.
   INTRODUCED, READ, ADOPTED ON FIRST READING THIS 24TH DAY OF APRIL, 2024.
   READ, ADOPTED ON SECOND READING, APPROVED, SIGNED, AND ORDERED PUBLISHED BY
TITLE ONLY THIS 22ND DAY OF MAY, 2024.
   TOWN OF WIGGINS
                                                       
   Christopher Franzen, Mayor
ATTEST:
                                         
Nichole Seiber, Town Clerk
 
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
CHAPTER 10: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
10.01   Title of code
   
10.02   Interpretation
   
10.03   Application to future ordinances
   
10.04   Construction of code
   
10.05   Rules of interpretation; definitions
   
10.06   Severability
   
10.07   Reference to other sections
   
10.08   Reference to offices; name designations
   
10.09   Errors and omissions
   
10.10   Reasonable time
   
10.11   Adoption of codes by reference
   
10.12   Repeal of ordinances not contained in code
   
10.13   Matters not affected by repeal
   
10.14   Section histories; statutory references
   
10.15   Changes in previously adopted ordinances
   
10.16   Ordinances saved from repeal
 
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01 TITLE OF CODE.
   All ordinances of a permanent and general nature of the town, as revised,
codified, rearranged, renumbered and consolidated into component codes, titles,
chapters and sections, shall be known and designated as the “Wiggins Town
Code”, for which designation “code of ordinances”, “codified ordinances” or
“code” may be substituted. Code title, chapter and section headings do not
constitute any part of the law as contained in the code.
§ 10.02 INTERPRETATION.
   Unless otherwise provided herein, or by law or implication required, the
same rules of construction, definition and application shall govern the
interpretation of this code as those governing the interpretation of state law.
§ 10.03 APPLICATION TO FUTURE ORDINANCES.
   All provisions of Title I compatible with future legislation shall apply to
ordinances hereafter adopted amending or supplementing this code unless
otherwise specifically provided.
§ 10.04 CONSTRUCTION OF CODE.
   (A)   This code is a codification of previously existing laws, amendments
thereto and newly enacted laws. Any previously existing law or amendment
thereto re-enacted by this code shall continue in operation and effect, as if
it had not been repealed by this code. All rules and regulations adopted under
laws re-enacted in this code shall remain in full force and effect unless
repealed or amended subsequent to the enactment of this code.
   (B)   Any appropriation repealed and re-enacted by this code is continued
only for the period designated in the original enactment of that appropriation.
   (C)   The numerical order and position of sections in this code does not
resolve a conflict between two or more sections.
   (D)   Any irreconcilable conflict between sections shall be resolved by
reference to the dates that the sections were originally enacted. The section
most recently enacted supersedes any conflicting section or division.
   (E)   All references within a section of this code to any section of
previously existing laws refer to the numbers in the original enactment.
   (F)   (1)   The numerical designations and descriptive headings assigned to
the various titles, chapters, subchapters or sections of this code, as
originally enacted or as added by amendment, are not law, and may be altered by
the compilers of this or any subsequent codification, in any official
publication, to more clearly indicate its content. These descriptive headings
are for organizational purposes only and do not affect the meaning, application
or construction of the law they precede.
      (2)   Each note following a section of this code is for reference
purposes only and is not a part of the section.
   (G)   All references to any section of this code refer to all subsequent
amendments to that section, unless otherwise provided.
§ 10.05 RULES OF INTERPRETATION; DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   Rules of interpretation. This code shall be construed by the following
rules unless the construction is plainly repugnant to the legislative intent or
context of the provision.
      (1)   Words and phrases shall be taken in their plain, ordinary and usual
sense. Technical words and phrases having a peculiar and appropriate meaning in
law shall be understood according to their technical import.
      (2)   Words imputing joint authority to three or more persons shall be
construed as imputing authority to a majority of the persons, unless otherwise
declared in the section giving the authority.
      (3)   Where a section requires an act to be done which, by law, an agent
or deputy may perform in addition to the principal, the performance of the act
by an authorized deputy or agent is valid.
      (4)   Words denoting the masculine gender shall be deemed to include the
feminine and neuter genders; words in the singular shall include the plural,
and words in the plural shall include the singular; and the use of a verb in
the present tense shall include the future, if applicable.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this code of ordinances, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      BOARD. The Board of Trustees.
      CLERK. The Clerk of the Town of Wiggins.
      CODE or CODE OF ORDINANCES. The town’s code of ordinances, as modified by
amendment, revision and adoption of new chapters, subchapters or sections.
      COUNTY. Morgan County, Colorado.
      C.R.S. Colorado Revised Statutes.
      HIGHWAY. Includes bridges, roads and streets, unless otherwise expressly
provided.
      LAW. Denotes applicable federal law, the Constitution and statutes of the
State of Colorado, the ordinances of the town and, when appropriate, any and
all rules and regulations which may be promulgated thereunder.
      MAY. Is permissive.
      MONTH. One calendar month.
      MUST. Is mandatory.
      ORDINANCE. A law of the town; provided that a temporary or special law,
administrative action, order or directive may be in the form of a resolution.
      OWNER. Applied to a building, land, motorized vehicle, animal or other
real or personal property, includes any part owner, joint owner, tenant in
common, joint tenant or tenant by the entirety or any other person with a
possessory interest in the whole or a part of said building, land, motor
vehicle, animal or other real or personal property.
      PERSON. A natural person, joint venture, joint stock company,
partnership, association, club, company, firm, corporation, business, trust,
limited liability company or other organization, or the manager, lessee, agent,
servant, officer, member or employee of any of them.
      PRECEDING and FOLLOWING. When referring to sections or divisions in this
code, refer to the sections or divisions next following or next preceding that
in which the words occur, unless some other section is designated.
      SHALL. Is mandatory.
      SIDEWALK. The portion of a street between the curbline and the adjacent
property line, intended for the use of pedestrians.
      STATE. The State of Colorado.
      STREET. Includes any public way, highway, street, avenue, boulevard,
parkway, lane, alley, court, place, square, curb or other public thoroughfare
in the town which has been or may hereafter be dedicated and open to public
use, or such other public property so designated by any state law.
      TOWN. The Town of Wiggins, Colorado, or the area within the territorial
limits of the Town of Wiggins, Colorado, and such territory outside of the town
over which the town has jurisdiction or control by virtue of any constitutional
or statutory provision.
      WRITTEN and IN WRITING. Include printing, lithographing or other modes of
representing words and letters. Where the written signature of a person is
required, the terms mean the proper handwriting of the person or the person’s
mark.
      YEAR. One calendar year, unless otherwise expressly provided.
§ 10.06 SEVERABILITY.
   (A)   If any section of this code now enacted or subsequently amended or its
application to any person or circumstances is held invalid, the invalidity does
not affect other sections that can be given effect without the invalid section
or application.
   (B)   (1)   Except in the case of a section or amendment to this code
containing a nonseverability provision, each division or part of every section
is severable.
      (2)   If any portion or application of a section is held invalid, the
invalidity does not affect the remainder of the section unless:
         (a)   The remainder is so essentially and inseparably connected with
and so dependent upon the invalid provision or application that it cannot be
presumed that the remainder would have been enacted without the invalid
provision or application; or
         (b)   The remainder is incomplete and incapable of being executed in
accordance with the legislative intent without the invalid provision or
application.
   (C)   This section applies to every section of this code regardless of
whether a section was enacted before or after the passage of this code.
   (D)   The repeal of a section or amendment stating that the provisions of a
chapter, subchapter or section are severable as provided in division (B) above
does not affect the operation of division (B) above with respect to that
chapter, subchapter or section.
§ 10.07 REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   Whenever in one section reference is made to another section hereof, the
reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified or renumbered unless the subject matter is changed
or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
§ 10.08 REFERENCE TO OFFICES; NAME DESIGNATIONS.
   (A)   Reference to offices. Reference to a public office or officer shall be
deemed to apply to any office, officer or employee of this municipality
exercising the powers, duties or functions contemplated in the provision,
irrespective of any transfer of functions or change in the official title of
the functionary.
   (B)   Name designations. Whenever any ordinance or resolution of the Board
refers to any board, bureau, commission, division, department, officer, agency,
authority or instrumentality of any government, and that name designation is
incorrectly stated; on the effective date of that ordinance or following the
effective date, the rights, powers, duties or liabilities placed with that
entity are or were transferred to a different entity; then the named board,
bureau, commission, department, division, officer, agency, authority or
instrumentality, whether correctly named in the ordinance at its effective date
or not, means that correctly named entity, or the entity to which the duties,
liabilities, powers and rights were transferred.
§ 10.09 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error is discovered, consisting of the misspelling of any
words; the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention of
the provisions affected; the use of a word or words to which no meaning can be
attached; or the use of a word or words when another word or words was clearly
intended to express the intent, the spelling shall be corrected and the word or
words supplied, omitted or substituted as will conform with the manifest
intention, and the provisions shall have the same effect as though the correct
words were contained in the text as originally published. No alteration shall
be made or permitted if any question exists regarding the nature or extent of
the error.
§ 10.10 REASONABLE TIME.
   (A)   In all cases where an ordinance requires an act to be done in a
reasonable time or requires reasonable notice to be given, REASONABLE TIME OR
NOTICE shall be deemed to mean the time which is necessary for a prompt
performance of the act or the giving of the notice.
   (B)   Unless otherwise provided by state statute, the time within which an
act is to be done, as herein provided, shall be computed by excluding the first
day and including the last. If the last day is a Saturday, Sunday or a state
holiday, it shall be excluded.
§ 10.11 ADOPTION OF CODES BY REFERENCE.
   Codes may be adopted by reference, as provided by state law.
§ 10.12 REPEAL OF ORDINANCES NOT CONTAINED IN CODE.
   All existing ordinances and portions of ordinances of a general and
permanent nature which are inconsistent with any ordinance included in the
adoption of this code are hereby repealed to the extent of any inconsistency
therein as of the effective date of the ordinance adopting this code, except as
hereinafter provided.
§ 10.13 MATTERS NOT AFFECTED BY REPEAL.
   The repeal of ordinances and parts of ordinances of a permanent and general
nature by §
10.12 shall not affect any offense committed or act done, any penalty or
forfeiture incurred or any contract, right or obligation established prior to
the time said ordinances and parts of ordinances are repealed.
§ 10.14 SECTION HISTORIES; STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   As histories for the code sections, the specific number and passage
date of the original ordinance, and amending ordinances, if any, are listed
following the text of the code section. Example:
(Ord. 10, passed 5-13-1960; Ord. 15, passed 1-1-1970; Ord. 20, passed 1-1-1980;
Ord. 25, passed 1-1-1985)
   (B)   (1)   If a statutory cite is included in the history, this indicates
that the text of the section reads substantially the same as the statute.
Example:
C.R.S. § 35-5.5-101
      (2)   If a statutory cite is set forth as a “statutory reference”
following the text of the section, this indicates that the reader should refer
to that statute for further information.
§ 10.15 CHANGES IN PREVIOUSLY ADOPTED ORDINANCES.
   (A)   In compiling and preparing the ordinances of the town for adoption and
revision as part of this code, certain grammatical changes and other changes
were made in one or more of said ordinances.
   (B)   It is the intention of the Board of Trustees that all such changes be
adopted as part of this code as if the ordinances so changed had been
previously formally amended to read as such.
§ 10.16 ORDINANCES SAVED FROM REPEAL.
   The continuance in effect of temporary and/or special ordinances and parts
of ordinances, although omitted from this code, shall not be affected by such
omission therefrom, and the adoption of this code shall not repeal or amend any
such ordinance or part of any such ordinance. Among the ordinances not repealed
or amended by the adoption of this code are ordinances:
   (A)   Creating, opening, dedicating, vacating or closing specific streets,
alleys and other public ways;
   (B)   Naming or changing the names of specific streets and other public
ways;
   (C)   Establishing the grades of specific streets and other public ways;
   (D)   Establishing the grades or lines of specific sidewalks;
   (E)   Authorizing or relating to specific issuances of general obligation
bonds;
   (F)   Creating specific sewer and paving districts and other local
improvement districts;
   (G)   Authorizing the issuance of specific local improvement district bonds;
   (H)   Making special assessments for local improvement districts and
authorizing refunds from specific local improvement district bond proceeds;
   (I)   Annexing territory to or excluding territory from the town;
   (J)   Dedicating or accepting any specific plat or subdivision;
   (K)   Calling or providing for a specific election;
   (L)   Authorizing specific contracts for purchase of beneficial use of water
by the town;
   (M)   Approving or authorizing specific contracts with the State, with other
governmental bodies or with others;
   (N)   Authorizing a specific lease, sale or purchase of property;
   (O)   Granting rights-of-way or other rights and privileges to specific
railroad companies or other public carriers;
   (P)   Granting a specific gas company or other public utility the right or
privilege of constructing lines in the streets and alleys or of otherwise using
the streets and alleys;
   (Q)   Granting a franchise to a specific public utility company or
establishing rights for or otherwise regulating a specific public utility
company;
   (R)   Appropriating money;
   (S)   Levying a temporary tax or fixing a temporary tax rate;
   (T)   Relating to salaries; and/or
   (U)   Amending the Official Zoning Map.
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   (A)   Violations. It is a violation of this code for any person to do any
act which is forbidden or declared to be unlawful or to fail to do or perform
any act required in this code.
   (B)   General penalty for violation.
      (1)   Unless otherwise provided in this code or by ordinance, whenever in
this code or any other ordinance, resolution or rule of the town, the doing of
any act is required, prohibited or declared to be unlawful or an offense or a
misdemeanor, and no definite fine or specific penalty is provided for a
violation thereof, any person who shall be convicted of or plead guilty or no
contest to a violation of any such provision of this code or other ordinance,
resolution or rule of the town, whether now in existence or hereinafter
enacted, shall be punished by a fine of not more than $2,650, as shall be
adjusted for inflation annually in accordance with C.R.S. § 13-10-113, except
as hereinafter provided in division (D) below. In addition, such person shall
pay all costs and expenses in the case, including attorney fees. Every day such
violation continues shall constitute a separate offense.
      (2)   Whenever in this code or any ordinance of the town a minimum but
not a maximum fine or penalty is imposed, the court may, in its discretion,
fine the offender any sum exceeding the minimum fine or penalty so imposed, but
not exceeding the maximum fine set forth in division (B)(1) above.
      (3)   The suspension or revocation of any license, permit or other
privilege conferred by the town shall not be regarded as a penalty for the
purposes of this code.
      (4)   All penalties in codes adopted by reference in this code are hereby
superseded by this section.
   (C)   Application of penalties to juveniles. Every person who, at the time
of commission of the offense, was at least ten but not yet 18 years of age, and
who is subsequently convicted of or pleads guilty or nolo contendere to a
violation of any provision of this code, shall be punished by a fine of not
more than the maximum fine set forth in division (B) above per violation or
count. Any voluntary plea of guilty or nolo contendere to the original charge
or to a lesser or substituted charge shall subject the person so pleading to
all fines and/or penalties applicable to the original charge. Nothing in this
division (C) shall be construed to prohibit confinement in an appropriate
facility, at the time of charging, of a juvenile violating any section of this
code in accordance with state law.
   (D)   Penalty for violations of ordinances adopted after adoption of code.
Any person who violates any provision of any ordinance of a permanent and
general nature passed or adopted after adoption of this code, either before or
after it has been inserted in this code by a supplement, shall, upon conviction
thereof, be punishable as provided by division (A) above unless another penalty
is specifically provided for the violation.
   (E)   Interpretation of unlawful acts. Whenever in this code any act or
omission is made unlawful, it is also unlawful to cause, allow, permit, aid,
abet or suffer such unlawful act or omission. Concealing or in any manner
aiding in the concealing of any unlawful act or omission is similarly unlawful.
(Ord. 02-2019, passed 3-27-2019)
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   OFFICIALS, EMPLOYEES AND ORGANIZATIONS
      
31.   TOWN POLICIES
      
32.   MUNICIPAL COURT
      
33.   TAXATION
CHAPTER 30: OFFICIALS, EMPLOYEES AND ORGANIZATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
30.01   Compensation
Administrative Organization
   
30.15   Board of Trustees and Mayor
   
30.16   Appointed officers
   
30.17   Town employees and personnel policies
   
30.18   Town Manager
   
30.19   Town Clerk
   
30.20   Town Treasurer
   
30.21   Chief of Police
   
30.22   Police Department
   
30.23   Town Attorney
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 30.01 COMPENSATION.
   (A)   Mayor compensation.The Town Mayor shall be compensated at the rate of
$400 per month; provided the Mayor attends at least one Board meeting a month.
   (B)   Trustee compensation. Each Trustee shall be compensated at the rate of
$150 per month; provided the Trustee attends at least one Board meeting a
month.
   (C)   Effective date. The rate of compensation established in this section
shall take effect on December 1, 2024, following the municipal election in
November 2024 for those members of the Board of Trustees beginning a new term
of office.
(Ord. 12-2021, passed 12-15-2021; Ord. 08-2024, passed 10-25-2024)
ADMINISTRATIVE ORGANIZATION
§ 30.15 BOARD OF TRUSTEES AND MAYOR.
   (A)   Board of Trustees - generally. The Board of Trustees shall constitute
the legislative body of the town; shall have the power and authority, except as
otherwise provided by statute, to exercise all power conferred upon or
possessed by the town; and shall have the power and authority to adopt such
laws, ordinances and resolutions as it deems proper in the exercise thereof.
   (B)   Mayor - generally. The Mayor shall be a member of the governing body
and the Board of Trustees with the same voting powers as any Trustee. The
Mayor, or in his or her absence, the Mayor Pro Tem, shall preside at all
meetings of the Board of Trustees and shall perform such duties as may be
required of him or her by statute or ordinance.
   (C)   Mayor Pro Tem. At its first meeting after each regular election, the
Board of Trustees shall choose one of the Trustees as Mayor Pro Tem who, in the
absence of the Mayor from any meeting of the Board or during the Mayor’s
absence from the town or his or her inability to act, shall perform the Mayor’s
duties. If neither the Mayor nor the Mayor Pro Tem is present at a meeting of
the Board of Trustees, the members present shall determine by majority vote who
shall serve as Chair of the meeting.
   (D)   Regular meetings; special meetings; work sessions; notice.
      (1)   The regular meetings of the Board of Trustees shall be held on the
fourth Wednesday of each month at 7:00 p.m. at Town Hall when there is town
business to be discussed; provided, however, that when the date fixed for any
regular meeting of the Board of Trustees falls upon a day designated by law as
a legal or national holiday, the regular meeting shall either be vacated or
rescheduled to an alternative date and time, as determined by the Board of
Trustees. A regular meeting may be canceled by motion adopted at a prior
meeting. The Board of Trustees may amend this schedule from time to time by
resolution.
      (2)   Special meetings may be called by the Mayor or any two members of
the Board of Trustees. Notice of special meetings shall be personally served on
each of the Trustees and/or Mayor or left at his or her usual place of
residence at least 24 hours before the meeting shall convene or sent by
electronic mail to the member’s e-mail address. The notice of the meeting shall
include the date, time, place and purpose of the meeting. No business shall be
transacted at a special meeting, except as provided in the notice.
      (3)   If a quorum is not present at a regular or special meeting, a
majority of the members of the Board of Trustees present may continue the
meeting to a future date and time, but may take no other action.
      (4)   The Board of Trustees shall hold work sessions, as needed, on the
first, third or fourth Wednesday of each month at 7:00 p.m. at Town Hall. No
ordinance or resolution may be adopted at any work session, nor any motion
taking final action on a matter before the Board. No executive session may be
held within a work session. There shall be made written action minutes of each
work session identifying any action taken.
   (5)   All meetings shall be open to the public, and notice shall be given as
provided by law.
(Ord. 1-09, passed - -200-; Ord. 02-2015, passed 1-28-2015)
§ 30.16 APPOINTED OFFICERS.
   (A)   Officers; appointment; term. There shall be appointed by the Board of
Trustees, within 30 days of each regular election, the following town officers:
a town clerk, a town treasurer and a town attorney. The Board may appoint such
other officers it may deem necessary for the good government of the town,
including a Town Manager and Chief of Police. The Board, if desired, may
appoint one person to hold the offices of Town Clerk and Town Treasurer.
Vacancies shall be filled in the same manner as original appointments. No
appointment of any officer shall continue beyond 30 days after compliance with
C.R.S. § 31-4-401 by the members of the succeeding Board of Trustees after each
regular election.
   (B)   Powers and duties of appointed officers. Appointed officers of the
town shall have such power and perform such duties as are now or hereafter may
be prescribed by state law and the ordinances of the town, and shall further
perform any additional duties required by the Board of Trustees, and shall be
subject to the control and orders of the Board of Trustees.
   (C)   Oath of office; bond. Appointed officers of the town shall, before
entering upon the duties of office, take and subscribe to an oath to support
the U.S. Constitution, the Colorado Constitution and the ordinances of the
town. Unless waived by the Board of Trustees, there shall be required of the
Town Treasurer a bond in such sum as is required, conditioned on the faithful
performance of all duties pertaining to such office and the proper care of all
money or property of the town coming into his or her hands. The Board may waive
the foregoing requirement for a bond and may require like bond from such other
officers as the Board determines.
   (D)   Removal of appointed officers. The Town Clerk, Town Treasurer and Town
Attorney may be removed by a majority vote of all the members of the Board of
Trustees. No such removal shall be made without a charge in writing and an
opportunity of a hearing being given.
(Ord. 1-09, passed - -200-)
§ 30.17 TOWN EMPLOYEES AND PERSONNEL POLICIES.
   (A)   Town employees. The Board of Trustees shall determine from time to
time all positions of town employment and the number of town employees deemed
necessary for the good order of the town.
   (B)   Personnel policies. Personnel policies may be set forth by resolution
or a personnel policy handbook approved by resolution. Such policies may
address, without limitation, employment categories and selection procedures,
employment rules, benefits and compensation, schedules, job descriptions,
employee conduct and discipline, employee discharge and separation, training,
holidays, leave and other matters. Amendments to personnel policies may be
recommended by any member of the Board of Trustees or the Town Manager and such
amendments shall be approved by ordinance or resolution of the Board of
Trustees. Departments may establish supplemental rules and procedures for the
operation of its department.
(Ord. 1-09, passed - -200-)
§ 30.18 TOWN MANAGER.
   (A)   Selection. The Town Manager shall be appointed by the Board of
Trustees. The Town Manager shall be selected on the basis of executive and
administrative qualifications, as determined by the Board of Trustees.
   (B)   Term; removal. The Town Manager shall serve an indefinite term, and he
or she may be removed by a majority vote of all the members of the Board of
Trustees. No such removal shall be made without a charge in writing and an
opportunity of a hearing being given.
   (C)   Compensation. The compensation of the Town Manager shall be
established by ordinance or resolution of the Board of Trustees from time to
time.
   (D)   Powers and duties. The Town Manager shall be the chief administrative
officer of the town government. The Town Manager’s duties and responsibilities
shall be as specified by the Board of Trustees from time to time, and shall
include without limitation the following:
      (1)   Be responsible to the Board of Trustees for the efficient
administration of all administrative departments of the town government, but
exclusive of the departments under the direction of Town Attorney and Municipal
Judge;
      (2)   See that all laws and ordinances are faithfully performed;
      (3)   Hire persons to fill those positions of hourly employment which
have been created or approved by the Board, with hiring for such positions
within the Police Department to be from candidates qualified by the Chief of
Police;
      (4)   Manage and supervise the departments, agencies and offices of the
town to achieve goals within available resources; plan and organize workloads
and staff assignments;
      (5)   Hire, train, evaluate, suspend, transfer and remove town employees
as authorized in the personnel policies and except as expressly provided to the
contrary in this subchapter;
      (6)   See that all terms and conditions imposed in favor of the town or
its residents in any public utility franchise or in any contract are faithfully
kept and performed;
      (7)   Recommend an annual budget to the Board of Trustees, to administer
the budget as finally adopted by the Board of Trustees and to keep the Board of
Trustees fully advised at all times as to the financial conditions and needs of
the town;
      (8)   Recommend to the Board of Trustees for adoption measures concerning
town affairs and attend Board of Trustees meetings;
      (9)   Designate, in cases of his or her leave or absence, a person to
serve as Acting Administrator to perform the Administrator’s duties and
responsibilities during such period of leave or absence; and
      (10)   Perform such other duties and responsibilities as required by the
position description and any ordinance, resolution or motion of the Board of
Trustees.
   (E)   Relationship of Board of Trustees to Town Manager. Except for the
purpose of inquiry, the Mayor, the Board of Trustees and its members shall deal
with the employees of the administrative departments solely through the Town
Manager, and neither the Mayor, the Board of Trustees, nor any member thereof
shall give orders to any of the subordinates of the Town Manager.
(Ord. 1-09, passed - -200-)
§ 30.19 TOWN CLERK.
   The Town Clerk shall have such powers and perform such duties as prescribed
by law, by ordinance, by the Board of Trustees or by the Town Manager,
including, without limitation, the following:
   (A)   Attend all meetings of the Board of Trustees, and make a true and
accurate record of all the proceedings, rules and ordinances made and passed by
the Board of Trustees;
   (B)   Certify, by signature, all ordinances and resolutions enacted or
passed by the Board of Trustees;
   (C)   Cause the ordinances of the town to be published as required by law
and administer the publication, recording and placement in the permanent
records of the town all ordinances and resolutions;
   (D)   Provide and maintain in the office a supply of forms for all petitions
required to be filed for any purpose provided by the Board of Trustees;
   (E)   Act as the custodian of the town seal, administer oaths and take
acknowledgments under the seal of the town;
   (F)   Handle activities of municipal elections, register citizens for voting
and handle absentee voting;
   (G)   Act as custodian of all bonds of officers or employees of the town;
   (H)   Act as custodian of all the town records, which records shall be open
at all reasonable times for inspection subject to the limitations, procedures
and requirements of applicable law;
   (I)   Act as the designated administrative official for all municipal liquor
licensing;
   (J)   Serve as the Clerk of the Municipal Court if so appointed by the
presiding Municipal Judge; and
   (K)   Perform such other duties and responsibilities as required by the
position description and any ordinance, resolution or motion of the Board of
Trustees.
(Ord. 1-09, passed - -200-)
§ 30.20 TOWN TREASURER.
   (A)   Appointment. The Board of Trustees may, in its discretion, appoint the
Town Clerk or the Town Manager as Town Treasurer.
   (B)   Duties and responsibilities. The Town Treasurer shall perform the
following duties:
      (1)   (a)   Receive, receipt for and keep safely all monies belonging to
the town and pay out of such monies as may be ordered by the Board of Trustees.
         (b)   Checks or drafts drawn upon accounts of the town shall state for
what purpose the money was appropriated, the particular fund to which the same
is chargeable and the person to whom payable.
         (c)   Checks or drafts drawn on the accounts of the town shall be
signed by at least two of the following four persons: Mayor, Mayor Pro Tem,
Town Treasurer or Town Manager;
      (2)   Keep a separate account of each fund or appropriation and the debts
and credits belonging thereto;
      (3)   (a)   Report to the Board of Trustees in writing, at each regular
monthly meeting and more often, if required, all monies received and paid out
by the town and the condition of each fund and all other business pertaining
thereto.
         (b)   All books and accounts of the Town Treasurer shall always be
subject to inspection of any member of the Board of Trustees; and
      (4)   Keep all records and make all reports that are required by the
Board of Trustees or by the laws of the state and perform such other duties and
responsibilities as required by the position description and state statute,
including, without limitation, C.R.S. §§ 31-20-301 et seq., and any ordinance,
resolution or motion of the Board of Trustees.
(Ord. 1-09, passed - -200-)
§ 30.21 CHIEF OF POLICE.
   (A)   Selection. The Chief of Police shall be appointed by the Board of
Trustees. The Chief of Police shall be a certified police officer and shall be
selected on the basis of such other qualifications as are determined by the
Board of Trustees.
   (B)   Term; removal. The Chief of Police shall serve an indefinite term, and
he or she may be removed by a majority vote of all the members of the Board of
Trustees. No such removal shall be made without a charge in writing and an
opportunity of a hearing being given.
   (C)   Powers; authority.
      (1)   The Chief of Police shall have and exercise all the powers within
the town conferred on such position pursuant to state statutes and town
ordinances.
      (2)   The Chief of Police shall report to the Town Manager with respect
to the administrative and financial operations of the Police Department and
shall be responsible for the professional supervision and management of all
police officers under his or her command.
   (D)   Duties. It shall be the duty of the Chief of Police to:
      (1)   See that the ordinances of the town and the laws of the state are
duly enforced and executed and that the peace of the town is preserved;
      (2)   Exercise general supervision and control over the work of all
members of the Police Department and prescribe the number of hours and the time
of day or night police officers shall be on duty;
      (3)   See that the rules and regulations governing the operations of the
Police Department are properly administered and obeyed;
      (4)   Administer procedures and processes as approved by the Board for
the qualification and selection of candidates to fill positions within the
Police Department; and
      (5)   Perform such other duties and responsibilities as required by the
position description, any ordinance or resolution or as otherwise assigned by
the Board of Trustees.
(Ord. 1-09, passed - -200-)
§ 30.22 POLICE DEPARTMENT.
   (A)   Department established. There shall be and is hereby established the
Town Police Department which shall be comprised of a Chief of Police and such
number of police officers as may from time to time be deemed necessary by the
Board of Trustees for the safety and good order of the town.
   (B)   Departmental regulations. The Police Department shall be administered
and operated in accordance with the ordinances of the town and such
departmental rules and regulations, including, without limitation, those set
forth in the Police Department Policy and Procedures Manual, as may from time
to time be adopted by the Chief of Police after being approved by the Town
Manager.
   (C)   Police officers - appointment and oath.
      (1)   Every person appointed to serve as a police officer shall be a bona
fide resident of the state and certified as a peace officer in accordance with
state law at the time of his or her appointment.
      (2)   Every person appointed to the position of police officer shall take
and subscribe to an oath or affirmation that he or she will support the U.S.
Constitution and laws of the United States and the state and that he or she
will faithfully and impartially enforce the ordinances of the town and
discharge the duties of his or her office.
   (D)   Police officers - duties.
      (1)   Police officers shall have and exercise all the authority and
powers within the town conferred on such position pursuant to state statutes
and town ordinances.
      (2)   It shall also be the duty of the police officers to:
         (a)   Enforce town ordinances and the laws of the state within the
jurisdictional limits of the town;
         (b)   Execute and return all writs and process directed to them by a
Municipal Court Judge in any case arising under the ordinances of the town and
serve and enforce such warrants as authorized under state law; and
         (c)   Investigate, make arrests, issue summonses, sign complaints and
assist in prosecution for violations of state or federal statutes and municipal
ordinances; suppress all riots and breaches of the peace and apprehend persons
fleeing from justice.
   (E)   Police officers - termination of employment. All police officers shall
be under the command and supervision of the Chief of Police, who shall review
and evaluate their performance and who may, in accordance with the personnel
policies, terminate the employment of any officer when deemed necessary for the
proper or efficient operation of the Police Department.
   (F)   Reserve officer force. Subject to the approval of the Board of
Trustees, the Chief of Police may establish reserve officer positions in the
Police Department. Reserve officers shall perform such duties as may be
assigned by the Chief of Police or, in the Chief’s absence, the highest ranking
officer. Reserve officers shall serve without compensation, but may be
reimbursed at the town’s discretion for authorized out-of-pocket expenses
incurred in the course of duty. The position of reserve officer is volunteer in
nature, and such relationship may be severed by the Chief of Police at any
time, with or without cause.
(Ord. 1-09, passed - -200-)
§ 30.23 TOWN ATTORNEY.
   (A)   Duties and responsibilities. The Town Attorney shall perform the
following duties:
      (1)   Act as legal advisor to, and be the attorney and counsel for, the
Board of Trustees and be responsible solely to the Board. He or she shall
advise any officer or department head of the town in matters relating to his or
her official duties;
      (2)   (a)   Upon request of the Board of Trustees, prosecute ordinance
violations and conduct for the town cases in Municipal Court.
         (b)   He or she shall file with the Clerk of the Municipal Court
copies of such records and files relating thereto;
      (3)   Prepare or review all ordinances, contracts, bonds and other
written instruments which are submitted to him or her by the Board of Trustees
and promptly give his or her opinion as to the legal consequences thereof;
      (4)   Call to the attention of the Board of Trustees all matters of law,
and changes or developments therein, affecting the town;
      (5)   Perform such other duties as may be prescribed for him or her by
the Board; and
      (6)   Unless otherwise directed by the Board of Trustees, attend all
meetings of the Board and have the right to be heard upon all questions or
motions before the Board of Trustees amending, repealing or in any manner
affecting any ordinance in force or to be enacted by the Board of Trustees.
   (B)   Advisor/prosecutor function. The Board of Trustees may separate the
Town Attorney functions of “advisor” and “prosecutor” and hire separate
attorneys to provide these functions.
(Ord. 1-09, passed - -200-)
CHAPTER 31: TOWN POLICIES
Section
Elections
   
31.01   Affidavit of intent required for write-in candidates
   
31.02   Not more candidates than offices to fill
   
31.03   Publication of notice of cancellation
   
31.04   Date of regular election
   
31.05   Conduct of elections
   
31.06   Transition to November regular elections
Unclaimed Property
   
31.20   Definitions
   
31.21   Procedure for disposition of property
   31.22   Sale or destruction of unclaimed property
ELECTIONS
§ 31.01 AFFIDAVIT OF INTENT REQUIRED FOR WRITE-IN CANDIDATES.
   No write-in vote cast for any municipal office shall be counted unless an
affidavit of intent has been filed with the Town Clerk by the person whose name
is written in prior to 64 days before the day of election indicating that such
person desires the office and is qualified to assume the duties of that office
if elected.
(Ord. 5-97, passed 12-10-1997; Ord. 19-2017, passed 12-13-2017)
§ 31.02 NOT MORE CANDIDATES THAN OFFICES TO FILL.
   (A)   If the only matter before the voters in a general election is the
election of persons to office and if, at the close of business on the sixty-
fourth day before such election, there are not more candidates than offices to
be filled at such election, including candidates filing affidavits of intent,
the Town Clerk, if instructed by resolution of the Board of Trustees, either
before or after such date, shall cancel the election and by resolution declare
the candidates elected.
   (B)   Upon such declaration, the candidates shall be deemed elected.
(Ord. 5-97, passed 12-10-1997; Ord. 19-2017, passed 12-13-2017)
§ 31.03 PUBLICATION OF NOTICE OF CANCELLATION.
   Notice of any such cancellation shall be published, if possible, in order to
inform the electors of the town, and notice of such cancellation shall be
posted at each polling place and in not less than one other public place within
the town.
(Ord. 5-97, passed 12-10-1997; Ord. 19-2017, passed 12-13-2017)
§ 31.04 DATE OF REGULAR ELECTION.
   A regular election shall be held on the Tuesday succeeding the first Monday
of November in each even-numbered year.
§ 31.05 CONDUCT OF ELECTIONS.
   (A)   All elections that are coordinated with the county shall be held and
conducted in accordance with the Uniform Election Code of 1992, as amended from
time to time.
   (B)   Elections that are not coordinated with the county and are conducted
by the town shall be held and conducted in accordance with the Colorado
Municipal Election Code of 1965, as amended from time to time.
§ 31.06 TRANSITION TO NOVEMBER REGULAR ELECTIONS.
   (A)   Notwithstanding any other provision of this code to the contrary, the
terms of Board members whose terms will expire in April 2024 shall be extended
to the November 2024 regular election.
   (B)   The terms of Board members whose terms will expire in April 2026 will
be extended to the November 2026 regular election.
UNCLAIMED PROPERTY
§ 31.20 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   MUNICIPALITY. The Town of Wiggins, a Colorado municipal corporation.
   OWNER. A person or entity, including a corporation, partnership,
association, governmental entity other than this municipality or a duly
authorized legal representative or successor in interest of the same, which
owns unclaimed property held by the municipality.
   TOWN MANAGER. The Town Manager of the Town of Wiggins, Colorado, or designee
thereof.
   UNCLAIMED PROPERTY. Any tangible or intangible property, including any
income or increment derived therefrom, less any lawful charge, that is held by
or under the control of the municipality and which has not been claimed for its
owner for a period of more than 90 days after it became returnable, payable or
distributable, but does not include any abandoned motor vehicle, the
disposition of which is otherwise provided for by law, nor any illegal weapon
nor other property the possession of which is illegal under town, state, or
federal law. The term includes, but is not limited to, property found or
recovered by any person and turned in by such person to the municipality, which
property is thereafter unclaimed by either the owner or the finder of the
property.
(Ord. 3-92, passed 6-24-1992)
§ 31.21 PROCEDURE FOR DISPOSITION OF PROPERTY.
   (A)   Prior to disposition of any unclaimed property having an estimated
value of $250 or more, the Town Manager shall send a written notice by
certified mail, return receipt requested, to the last known address, if any, of
any owner of unclaimed property. The last known address of the owner shall be
the last address of the owner as shown by the records of the municipal
department or agency holding the property. The notice shall include a
description of the property and, when available, the purpose for which the
property was deposited or otherwise held. The notice shall state where the
owner may make inquiry of or claim the property. The notice shall also state
that if the owner fails to provide the Town Manager with a written claim for
the return of the property within 60 days of the date of the notice, the
property shall become the sole property of the municipality and any claim of
the owner to such property shall be deemed forfeited.
   (B)   (1)   Prior to disposition of any unclaimed property having an
estimated value of less than $250, or having no last known address of the
owner, the Town Manager shall cause a notice to be published in a newspaper of
general circulation in the municipality.
      (2)   The notice shall include a description of the property, the owner
of the property, the amount or estimated value of the property and, when
available, the purpose for which the property was deposited or otherwise held.
      (3)   The notice shall state where the owner may make inquiry of or claim
the property. The notice shall also state that if the owner fails to provide
the Town Manager with a written claim for the return of the property within 60
days of the date of the publication of the notice, the property shall become
the sole property of the municipality and any claim of the owner to such
property shall be deemed forfeited.
   (C)   If the Town Manager receives no written claim within the above 60-day
claim period, the property shall become the sole property of the municipality
and any claim of the owner to such property shall be deemed forfeited.
   (D)   If the Town Manager receives a written claim within the 60-day claim
period, the Town Manager shall evaluate the claim and give written notice to
the claimant within 90 days thereof that the claim has been accepted or denied
in whole or in part. The Town Manager may investigate the validity of a claim
and may request further supporting documentation from the claimant prior to
disbursing or refusing to disburse the property.
   (E)   In the event that there is more than one claimant for the same
property, the Town Manager may, in the Town Manager’s sole discretion, resolve
said claims or may resolve such claims by depositing the disputed property with
the Registry Fund of the District Court in an interpleader action.
   (F)   In the event that all claims filed are denied, the property shall
become the sole property of the municipality and any claim of the owner of such
property shall be deemed forfeited.
   (G)   Any legal action filed challenging a decision of the Town Manager
shall be filed pursuant to Rule 106 of the Colorado Rules of Civil Procedure
within 30 days of such decision or shall be forever barred. If any legal action
is timely filed, the property shall be disbursed by the Town Manager pursuant
to the order of the court having jurisdiction over such claim.
   (H)   The Town Manager is authorized to establish and administer procedures
for the administration and disposition of unclaimed property consistent with
this subchapter, including compliance requirements for other municipal officers
and employees in the identification and disposition of property.
(Ord. 3-92, passed 6-24-1992)
§ 31.21 SALE OR DESTRUCTION OF UNCLAIMED PROPERTY.
   (A)   Following the expiration of the claim period applicable to the
unclaimed property, and the resolution of all outstanding claims pursuant to §
31.20, the town may use or dispose of unclaimed property as follows:
      (1)   Use any unclaimed property in general town operations if, in the
opinion of the Town Manager, its use will serve a public purpose;
      (2)   Use any unclaimed property in Police Department operations if, in
the opinion of the Chief of Police, it will serve a law enforcement purpose;
      (3)   Destroy any unclaimed property if, in the opinion of the Town
Manager and the Chief of Police, such property is of negligible value and of no
use to the town or Police Department;
      (4)   Transfer possession of any unclaimed property to the individual or
individuals who found such property, at the discretion of the Chief of Police;
      (5)   Dispose of the property at a public or private sale, in a manner
determined by the Chief of Police or Chief’s designee, to maximize the
consideration received for sale or disposition of such property. If at any time
the Chief of Police or Chief’s designee determines that the unclaimed property
has minimal resale value, such that the administrative time and expense of
disposition is not justifiable, the Chief of Police or Chief’s designee may
destroy or otherwise dispose of the property. In no event shall the Chief of
Police or Chief’s designee transfer unclaimed property to an officer or
employee of the Town or a relative of an officer or employee; or
      (6)   Donate the property to a charitable organization or local
government, at the discretion of the Town Manager.
   (B)   Any proceeds from the sale of unclaimed property pursuant to this
section shall be deposited in the town’s General Fund.
   (C)   Any purchaser or donee of unclaimed property under this section shall
take such property without warranty against any claim of the owner or previous
holder thereof and of all persons claiming through or under them. The Town
Manager shall execute all documents necessary to complete the transfer of
ownership.
CHAPTER 32: MUNICIPAL COURT
Section
   
32.01   Municipal court created
   
32.02   Municipal Judge
   
32.03   Clerk of the Municipal Court
   
32.04   Court costs
   
32.05   Collection costs
   
32.06   Administrative fees and surcharges for Municipal Court
   
32.07   Surcharge on municipal ordinance violations
§ 32.01 MUNICIPAL COURT CREATED.
   A qualified municipal court of record is hereby created and established to
hear and try all alleged violations of ordinance provisions in the town and to
operate in conformity with the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 10-95, passed 5-24-1995)
§ 32.02 MUNICIPAL JUDGE.
   (A)   The Town Municipal Court shall be presided over by a municipal judge
who shall be appointed by the Board of Trustees for a specified term of not
less than two years and who may be re- appointed for a subsequent term.
   (B)   The Municipal Judge for the Municipal Court in the town must be
admitted to, and currently licensed in, the practice of law in the state.
   (C)   (1)   The salary of the Municipal Judge shall be an amount not to
exceed $2,700 per year, payable on a monthly basis at $225 per month for each
month of service, subject to any applicable deductions.
      (2)   In the event of absence, sickness, disqualification or other
inability of the Municipal Judge to act, such compensation shall be paid to the
duly-appointed and serving assistant or substitute judge.
(Ord. 10-95, passed 5-24-1995; Ord. 3-10, passed 6-9-2010)
§ 32.03 CLERK OF THE MUNICIPAL COURT.
   (A)   The position of clerk of the municipal court is hereby established.
The Clerk of the Municipal Court shall be appointed by the presiding Municipal
Judge and shall have such duties as are delegated to him or her by law, court
rule or the presiding Municipal Judge.
   (B)   The Clerk of the Municipal Court shall be required to keep a verbatim
record of the proceedings and evidence at trials by either electric devices or
stenographic means.
(Ord. 10-95, passed 5-24-1995)
§ 32.04 COURT COSTS.
   (A)   The Municipal Judge, in his or her discretion, may assess costs
against any defendant who pleads guilty or nolo contendere, who enters into a
plea agreement or who, after trial, is found guilty of an ordinance violation.
Such costs shall not exceed $65 except that in the case of a trial by jury such
costs shall not exceed $75.
   (B)   Upon the entry of any deferred prosecution, deferred judgment and
sentence, or where the defendant is placed on probation, the Municipal Judge
may assess a supervision fee in the amount of $55 in addition to court costs.
(Ord. 10-95, passed 5-24-1995; Ord. 1-98, passed 2-25-1998; Ord. 07-2015,
passed 6-10-2015)
§ 32.05 COLLECTION COSTS.
   The Municipal Judge, Court Clerk or a designee, is authorized to use any
lawful method of collecting fines, fees, default judgments, personal
recognizance bond forfeitures, civil penalties, or any other unpaid amounts due
from any person assessed such sums by the Municipal Court, including the
reasonable costs of collection. Reasonable costs of collection shall include,
without limitation, the fees and costs of a collection agency or counsel, but
such fees and costs shall not exceed 25% of the unpaid amount.
(Ord. 03-2023, passed 5-24-2023)
§ 32.06 ADMINISTRATIVE FEES AND SURCHARGES FOR MUNICIPAL COURT.
   (A)   In any case set before the court on a “show cause” hearing or a
“noncompliance” hearing, the Municipal Court Judge is empowered, in his or her
discretion, to assess a fee of $10, in addition to all other fines, costs and
surcharges.
   (B)   Any defendant entering into a disposition with the Town Attorney,
including, but not limited to, a stipulation for deferred judgment and
sentence, a stipulation for deferred prosecution or a plea agreement, shall pay
an administrative fee of $25, in addition to all other fines, costs and
surcharges.
   (C)   In all cases, except where the defendant is adjudged to be not guilty
by the court, an administrative surcharge of $6 shall be imposed.
(Ord. 14-03, passed 12-10-2003)
§ 32.07 SURCHARGE ON MUNICIPAL ORDINANCE VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   A surcharge in the amount of $65 shall be assessed in every summons/
complaint issued or case charged into the Town Municipal Court that results in
a conviction (whether by plea or at trial) or deferred sentence and judgment,
including penalty assessments, but excluding parking violations.
   (B)   The surcharge levied pursuant to this section is separate and distinct
from any and all other costs, fines and fees assessed or levied by the
Municipal Court.
   (C)   All surcharges collected or received by the Municipal Court pursuant
to this section shall be deposited in the General Fund account/a separate
account to be used for the purposes set forth herein.
   (D)   The primary use of the surcharge shall be to fund costs of the Town
Police Department, including, but not limited to, costs incurred in connection
with training and equipment needs of the Police Department.
   (E)   The surcharge imposed by this section may not be suspended or waived
by the court unless the court determines the defendant is indigent.
(Ord. 08-2017, passed 7-12-2017)
CHAPTER 33: TAXATION
Section
Use Tax
   
33.01   Definitions
   
33.02   Imposition of tax; rate
   
33.03   Exemptions
   
33.04   Construction and building materials; method of payment
   
33.05   Duties and powers of Town Manager
   
33.06   Maintenance of books and records
   
33.07   Preservation of tax reports and returns; confidentiality
   
33.08   Collection, administration, interest and penalties
   
33.09   Hearings
   
33.10   Appeal
   
33.11   Lien on property
   
33.12   Status of unpaid tax in bankruptcy and receivership
   
33.13   Amendments
   
33.14   Violations
Lodging Occupation Tax
   
33.25   Declaration of purpose
   
33.26   Definitions
   
33.27   Imposition of tax
   
33.28   Exemptions
   
33.29   Collection of tax
   
33.30   Audit of records
   
33.31   Tax overpayments and deficiencies
   
33.32   Tax information confidential
   
33.33   Forms and regulations
   
33.34   Enforcement and penalties
   
33.35   Tax lien
   
33.36   Recovery of unpaid tax
   
33.37   Status of unpaid tax in bankruptcy and receivership
   
33.38   Hearings, subpoenas and witness fees
   
33.39   Depositions
   
33.40   Statute of limitations
 
   
33.99   Penalty
USE TAX
§ 33.01 DEFINITIONS.
   Except as set forth below, or unless the context clearly indicates
otherwise, the definitions of the words contained in this subchapter shall be
as defined in C.R.S. §§ 39-26-102 and 39-26-201 as may be amended from time to
time.
   CONSTRUCTION AND BUILDING MATERIALS.
      (1)   Any materials, goods or commodities which are used or consumed in
connection with the building, construction, reconstruction, alteration,
expansion, modification or improvement of any dwelling, building, structure or
private improvement.
      (2)   It specifically includes any item, materials, goods or commodities
which become a part of the dwelling, building, structure or improvement, or
which are affixed to or provided with the dwelling, building, structure or
improvement, or the lot or parcel of ground on which the dwelling, building,
structure or improvement is located.
   TOWN MANAGER. The Town Manager, or his or her designee.
(Ord. 10-2017, passed 7-26-2017)
§ 33.02 IMPOSITION OF TAX; RATE.
   (A)   Imposition. There is hereby levied and imposed, and there shall be
collected by the town and paid by the taxpayer, a use tax on the full purchase
price paid or charged on the sale or purchase of construction and building
materials, when purchased or sold at retail, and used or consumed in the town.
   (B)   Rate. The amount of the tax hereby levied is 2% of the full purchase
price of construction and building materials.
(Ord. 10-2017, passed 7-26-2017) Penalty, see §
33.99
§ 33.03 EXEMPTIONS.
   The following list of exemptions cannot be increased by implication or
similarity. In all cases, the burden of proof is upon the taxpayer to establish
an exemption. The following are exempt from the use tax imposed by this
subchapter:
   (A)   The storage, use or consumption of any tangible personal property the
sale of which is subject to a retail sales tax imposed by the town;
   (B)   The storage, use or consumption of any tangible personal property
purchased for resale in the town, either in its original form or as an
ingredient of a manufactured or compounded product, in the regular course of a
business;
   (C)   The storage, use or consumption of tangible personal property brought
into the town by a nonresident thereof for his or her own storage, use or
consumption while temporarily within the town; however, this exemption does not
apply to the storage, use or consumption of tangible personal property brought
into the state by a nonresident to be used in the conduct of a business in this
state;
   (D)   The storage, use or consumption of tangible personal property by the
United States government, the state or its institutions or political
subdivision in their governmental capacities only, or religious or charitable
corporations in the conduct of their regular religious or charitable functions;
   (E)   The storage, use or consumption of tangible personal property by a
person engaged in the business of manufacturing or compounding for sale, profit
or use of any article, substance or commodity, which tangible personal property
enters into the processing of or becomes an ingredient or component part of the
product or service which is manufactured, compounded or furnished and the
container, label or furnished shipping case thereof;
   (F)   The storage, use or consumption of any article of tangible personal
property the sale or use of which has already been subjected to a legally
imposed sales or use tax of another municipality equal to or in excess of 2%. A
credit shall be granted against the town’s use tax with respect to a person’s
storage, use or consumption in the town of tangible personal property; the
amount of the credit to equal the tax paid by him or her by reason of the
imposition of a sales; or use tax of the previous municipality on the purchase
or use of the property. The amount of credit shall not exceed 2%;
   (G)   The storage, use or consumption of tangible personal property and
household effects acquired outside of the town and brought into it by a
nonresident acquiring residency;
   (H)   The storage or use of a motor vehicle if the owner is or was, at the
time of purchase, a nonresident of the town and he or she purchased the vehicle
outside of the town for use outside the town and actually so used it for a
substantial and primary purpose for which it was acquired, and he or she
registered, titled and licensed said motor vehicle outside of the town;
   (I)   The storage, use or consumption of any construction and building
materials and vehicles on which registration is required if a written contract
for the purchase thereof was entered into prior to the effective date of the
initial ordinance codified herein;
   (J)   The storage, use or consumption of any construction and building
materials required or made necessary in the performance of any construction
contract bid, let or entered into at any time prior to the effective date of
the initial ordinance codified herein;
   (K)   The storage of construction and building materials; and
   (L)   Any transaction which the town is prohibited from taxing under the
U.S. Constitution and laws of the United States, or under the Colorado
Constitution and laws of the state.
(Ord. 10-2017, passed 7-26-2017)
§ 33.04 CONSTRUCTION AND BUILDING MATERIALS; METHOD OF PAYMENT.
   (A)   The use tax imposed by this subchapter shall be collected in full
prior to issuance of a building permit and shall be based on the estimated cost
of construction and building materials, calculated by multiplying the use tax
of 2% by 50% of the total valuation of the construction project as entered on
the building permit by the town.
   (B)   (1)   Within 60 days from the issuance of a certificate of occupancy
for the improvement on which the use tax was paid, the town may audit the
taxpayer or the taxpayer may request an audit to re-compute the use tax by
comparing the estimated cost of construction and building materials.
      (2)   If the re-computed use tax is less than the amount of use tax paid
by the taxpayer, the difference shall be refunded to the taxpayer. If the re-
computed use tax is more than the amount of use tax paid by the taxpayer, the
difference shall be paid by the taxpayer to the town.
(Ord. 10-2017, passed 7-26-2017) Penalty, see §
33.99
§ 33.05 DUTIES AND POWERS OF TOWN MANAGER.
   (A)   (1)   The administration of the provisions of this subchapter is
hereby vested in and shall be exercised by the Town Manager, who shall
prescribe forms and formulate and promulgate appropriate rules and regulations
to effectuate the purpose of this subchapter, for the ascertainment, assessment
and collection of the tax imposed and for the proper administration and
enforcement thereof.
      (2)   Regulations adopted, amended or rescinded by the Town Manager shall
be effective in the manner and at the time prescribed by the Town Manager,
subject to the provisions of this subchapter.
   (B)   (1)   (a)   The Town Manager may appoint such persons to make such
expenditures, require such reports, make such investigations and take such
other action as he or she deems necessary or suitable to that end. The Town
Manager shall determine his or her own organization and methods of procedure in
accordance with provisions of this subchapter.
         (b)   For the purpose of ascertaining the correctness of any return or
for the purpose of making an estimate of the tax due from any taxpayer, the
Town Manager shall have the power to examine, or cause to be examined, by any
employee, agent or representative designated by him or her for that purpose,
any books, papers, records or memoranda bearing upon the matters required to be
included in the return.
      (2)   (a)   Subject to the provisions of this subchapter, the Town
Manager is authorized to appoint and prescribe the duties and powers of such
officers, accountants, auditors, experts and other persons as may be necessary
in the performance of his or her duty.
         (b)   The Town Manager may delegate to any such person so appointed
such power and authority as he or she deems reasonable and proper for the
effective administration of this subchapter and may bond, in a sufficient
amount, any person handling money under this subchapter.
(Ord. 10-2017, passed 7-26-2017)
§ 33.06 MAINTENANCE OF BOOKS AND RECORDS.
   (A)   The Town Manager may require any person, by regulation or notice
served on such person, to make such return, render such statement, keep and
furnish such records or make such information reports as the Town Manager may
deem sufficient to demonstrate whether or not such person is liable for payment
or collection of tax imposed by this subchapter.
   (B)   Taxpayers who have prepaid an estimate of taxes on construction
projects under §
33.04 shall, upon completion of each such project, report the actual costs of
construction and building materials used therein.
   (C)   It shall be the duty of every person liable to the town for any tax
imposed in this subchapter to keep and preserve for a period of three years
such books, accounts and sales and purchase records as may be necessary to
determine the amount of such tax liability.
   (D)   All such books, accounts and records shall be open for examination at
any time by the Town Manager, or his or her duly authorized agents. In the case
of a person who does not keep the necessary books, accounts and records within
the town, it shall be sufficient if such person produces, within this town,
such books, accounts and records, or such information as shall be reasonably
required by the Town Manager, for examination by the Town Manager.
(Ord. 10-2017, passed 7-26-2017)
§ 33.07 PRESERVATION OF TAX REPORTS AND RETURNS; CONFIDENTIALITY.
   (A)   All reports and returns of taxes received by the Town Manager covered
by this subchapter shall be preserved for three years and thereafter until the
Town Manager orders them to be destroyed.
   (B)   Except in accordance with judicial order or as otherwise provided by
law, the Town Manager shall not divulge or make known in any way any
information disclosed in any document, report or return filed in connection
with any of the taxes covered by this section. The officials charged with the
custody of such documents, reports and returns shall not be required to produce
any of them or evidence of anything contained in them in any action or
proceeding in any court, except on behalf of the town.
   (C)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to prohibit the publication
of statistics so classified as to prevent the identification of particular
reports or returns and the items thereof or the inspection of returns by the
Town Attorney, or other legal representatives of the town.
(Ord. 10-2017, passed 7-26-2017)
§ 33.08 COLLECTION, ADMINISTRATION, INTEREST AND PENALTIES.
   Except as set forth in this subchapter, the collection, administration and
enforcement of the use tax imposed by §
33.02 shall be performed by the Town Manager in substantially the same manner
as the collection, administration and enforcement of the state sales and use
tax, as provided in C.R.S. Title 29, Article 2 and C.R.S. Title 39, Article 26.
Interest and penalties shall also be assessed and collected in accordance with
C.R.S. Title 29, Article 2.
(Ord. 10-2017, passed 7-26-2017)
§ 33.09 HEARINGS.
   (A)   A taxpayer may request a hearing when the town asserts that taxes and
any penalties or interest under this subchapter are due, as stated in a notice
of final determination, assessment and demand for payment sent to the taxpayer
by the town or when the town denies a taxpayer’s claim for refund. The hearing
request shall be in writing and shall be received by the Town Manager within 20
days of the date of mailing of a notice of final determination, assessment and
demand for payment or of a notice of a denial of refund. This request for
hearing shall set forth the factual and/or legal basis for the taxpayer’s
belief that the assessment or denial is incorrect. A taxpayer’s failure to
timely request a hearing shall constitute a failure to exhaust local remedies.
Any unpaid protested tax, penalty and interest shall be paid in full within the
20 days specified in this section.
   (B)   (1)   The Town Manager shall notify the taxpayer in writing of the
time and place for the administrative hearing within 30 days of receipt of the
taxpayer’s request for a hearing.
      (2)   Such notification shall be mailed no less than 20 days prior to the
date of the hearing.
      (3)   A final decision thereon shall be issued and the results mailed to
the taxpayer within 90 days of the town’s receipt of the taxpayer’s request for
hearing, except that the 90-day period shall be extended to 180 days if the
taxpayer caused any delay in the holding of the hearing or in the issuance of
the decision, and except that the 180-day period may be waived by the taxpayer.
   (C)   Hearings before the Town Manager shall be conducted in an informal
manner. Formal rules of evidence shall not apply and transcripts or filing of
briefs will not be required.
   (D)   The taxpayer’s participation in a hearing requested and held pursuant
to this section shall be an exhaustion of all local remedies as defined in
C.R.S. § 29-2-106.1(2)(c).
   (E)   The hearing shall be held before the Town Manager. The Town Manager is
authorized to administer oaths and take testimony. At the hearing, the taxpayer
may assert any facts, make any arguments and file any briefs and affidavits the
taxpayer believes pertinent to the taxpayer’s cause.
   (F)   After the expiration of 20 days from the date of the notice of final
determination assessment and demand for payment or denial of refund, if the tax
has not been paid or if no request for hearing has been timely filed, the
notice of final determination assessment and demand for payment previously
mailed shall constitute a final assessment of the amount of the tax specified,
together with interest and penalties, or shall constitute a final denial of
refund.
   (G)   Based on the evidence presented at any hearing or filed in support of
the taxpayer’s contentions at any hearing, the Town Manager may modify or abate
in full any tax, penalty and interest questioned at the hearing or may approve
a refund or may uphold the original assessment.
   (H)   (1)   Upon rejection, in whole or in part, of a claim for refund, or
upon a finding by the Town Manager that a valid use tax assessment, in whole or
in part, has been made against the taxpayer, the Town Manager shall send a
final determination notice to the taxpayer setting forth the amount of the
claim for refund that is denied or the amount of use taxes found still due and
owing, stating the grounds for such determination.
      (2)   Unless an appeal is taken as provided herein, the taxes, together
with interest thereon and penalties, if any, shall be paid within 30 days after
the date of the final determination notice.
(Ord. 10-2017, passed 7-26-2017)
§ 33.10 APPEAL.
   (A)   After exhausting all local remedies, a taxpayer may elect to appeal a
use tax assessment or claim for a refund to the State Department of Revenue,
pursuant to C.R.S. § 29-2-106.1.
   (B)   A notice of this right shall be included in any notice of assessment
or denial of refund in clear and conspicuous type.
(Ord. 10-2017, passed 7-26-2017)
§ 33.11 LIEN ON PROPERTY.
   (A)   If any person fails to pay the use tax within ten days after it is
due, the Town Manager shall issue a notice setting forth the name of the
taxpayer, the amount of the use tax owed, the date of the accrual thereof and
that the town claims a first and prior lien therefor on the real and personal
property of the taxpayer, except as to pre-existing liens of a bona fide
mortgagee, pledgee, judgment creditor or purchaser, which right has attached
prior to the filing of the notice as hereinafter provided.
   (B)   The notice shall be on forms prepared by the Town Manager, and when
filed in the office of the clerk and recorder of any county in the state in
which the taxpayer owns real or personal property, such notice shall create a
lien as aforesaid on such property in that county and constitute a notice
thereof.
(Ord. 10-2017, passed 7-26-2017)
§ 33.12 STATUS OF UNPAID TAX IN BANKRUPTCY AND RECEIVERSHIP.
   Whenever the business or property of a taxpayer subject to this subchapter
shall be placed in receivership, bankruptcy or assignment for the benefit of
creditors, or seized under distraint for taxes, all taxes, penalties and
interest imposed by this subchapter and for which the taxpayer is in any way
liable under the terms of this subchapter shall be a prior and preferred lien
against all the property of the taxpayer, except as to other tax liens which
have attached prior to the filing of the notice, and no Sheriff, receiver,
assignee or other officer shall sell the property of any person subject to this
subchapter under process or order of any court, without first ascertaining from
the Town Manager the amount of any taxes due and payable under this subchapter,
and if there are any such taxes due, owing and unpaid, it shall be the duty of
such officer to first pay the amount of the taxes out of the proceeds of such
sale before making payment of any monies to any judgment creditor or other
claimants of whatsoever kind or nature, except the costs of the proceedings and
other preexisting tax liens as above provided.
(Ord. 10-2017, passed 7-26-2017)
§ 33.13 AMENDMENTS.
   The Board of Trustees shall have the right to amend or repeal the provisions
of this subchapter, including all provisions regarding collection,
administration, use and enforcement of the excise tax except that the amount of
the tax and events subject to the tax as approved by the voters on November 8,
2016 shall not be increased, expanded or broadened without additional voter
approval.
(Ord. 10-2017, passed 7-26-2017)
§ 33.14 VIOLATIONS.
   It is a violation of this subchapter for any person subject to the tax
levied by this subchapter to refuse to make any return provided to be made; to
make any false or fraudulent return or any false statements in any return; to
fail or refuse to make payment to the Town Manager of any taxes due the town;
or in any manner to evade the payment of the tax, or any part thereof imposed
by this subchapter; or for any person to aid or abet another in any attempt to
evade the payment of the tax imposed by this subchapter.
LODGING OCCUPATION TAX
§ 33.25 DECLARATION OF PURPOSE.
   The Board of Trustees hereby finds, determines and declares the following.
   (A)   (1)   For the purposes of this subchapter, every person that furnishes
lodging for consideration in the town is exercising a taxable privilege.
      (2)   The purpose of this subchapter is to impose a tax which will be
paid by every vendor providing such lodging in the town, which tax will provide
revenues to be collected, retained and spent for any lawful municipal purpose.
   (B)   Pursuant to authority found in the laws of the state, the following
lodging occupancy tax is adopted for the purpose of promoting the health,
safety, morals and general welfare of the town.
   (C)   The provision of lodging to the traveling public results in the
increased use of town streets and rights-of-way, increased traffic, increased
demands upon municipal services and utilities and has substantial effect upon
the health, safety and welfare of the citizens of the town and upon
expenditures budgeted by the town which is a matter of local concern.
   (D)   The classification of the provision of lodging as separate businesses
and occupations is reasonable, proper, uniform, nondiscriminatory and
necessary.
(Ord. 09-2017, passed 7-26-2017)
§ 33.26 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   LODGING. Hotel rooms, motel rooms, lodging rooms, motor hotel rooms, bed and
breakfast rooms, guesthouse rooms, guest ranch rooms, mobile homes, cabins or
other similar accommodations that are rented to persons for a period of less
than one month or 30 consecutive days, but shall not include rentals under a
written agreement for occupancy for a period of at least one month or 30 days.
   PERSON. An individual, partnership, firm, joint enterprise, limited
liability company, corporation, estate or trust, or any group or combination
acting as a unit, but shall not include the United States, the state and any
political subdivision thereof.
   SALE. The furnishing for consideration by any person of lodging within the
town.
   TAX. The tax payable by the vendor or the aggregate amount of taxes due from
vendor during the period for which the vendor is required to pay the occupation
tax on the provision of lodging under this subchapter.
   TAXPAYER. The vendor obligated to pay the tax under the terms of this
subchapter.
   VENDOR. A person furnishing lodging for consideration within the town.
(Ord. 09-2017, passed 7-26-2017)
§ 33.27 IMPOSITION OF TAX.
   Effective January 1, 2018, there is hereby levied by the town an occupation
tax on the provision of lodging upon every person or business that furnishes
any hotel room, motel room, lodging room, motor hotel room, bed and breakfast
room, guesthouse room, guest ranch room, mobile home, cabin or other similar
accommodation for consideration for less than one month or 30 consecutive days
within the town in the amount of $5 per day, per occupied lodging room or
accommodation.
(Ord. 09-2017, passed 7-26-2017)
§ 33.28 EXEMPTIONS.
   The following transactions shall be exempt from the tax imposed by this
subchapter:
   (A)   Lodging provided by the United States, the state, its departments and
institutions and the political subdivisions of the state;
   (B)   Lodging provided by those charitable, religious and eleemosynary
organizations that have received and hold from the Internal Revenue Service
status under I.R.C. § 501(c)(3) as a tax exempt organization, while in the
conduct of their regular charitable, religious or eleemosynary functions and
activities; and
   (C)   Lodging provided to a person who is a permanent resident of a hotel,
motel, apartment hotel, lodging house, motor hotel, bed and breakfast,
guesthouse, guest ranch, mobile home, cabin or other similar business pursuant
to a written agreement for a period of at least one month or 30 consecutive
days.
(Ord. 09-2017, passed 7-26-2017)
§ 33.29 COLLECTION OF TAX.
   (A)   Every vendor providing lodging taxable under this subchapter shall
remit such tax on or before the tenth day of each month on account of lodging
provided in the preceding month. Said payment shall be accompanied by a return
which shall contain such information and be in such form as the Town Clerk may
prescribe.
   (B)   The burden of proving that any transaction is exempt from the tax
shall be upon the vendor.
   (C)   It shall be the duty of every vendor to maintain, keep and preserve
suitable records of all sales made by the vendor and such other books or
accounts as may be required by the Town Clerk in order to determine the amount
of the tax of which the vendor is liable under this subchapter. It shall be the
duty of every such vendor to keep and preserve for a period of three years all
such books, invoices and other records and the same shall be open for
examination by the Town Clerk or the Clerk’s designee.
   (D)   The tax to be paid by a vendor shall not be stated and charged
separately from the sales price of lodging on any record thereof at the time
when the sale is made or at the time when evidence of the sale is issued;
however, the vendor may indicate the sales price “includes $5 Town of Wiggins
Lodging Occupation Tax”.
(Ord. 09-2017, passed 7-26-2017) Penalty, see §
33.99
§ 33.30 AUDIT OF RECORDS.
   (A)   For the purpose of ascertaining the correct amount of the occupation
tax on the provision of the lodging due from any person engaged in such
business in the town under this subchapter, the Town Clerk, or an authorized
agent, may conduct an audit by examining any relevant books, accounts and
records of such person.
   (B)   All books, invoices, accounts and other records shall be made
available within the town limits and be open at any time during regular
business hours for examination by the Town Clerk, or an authorized agent. If
any taxpayer refuses to voluntarily furnish any of the foregoing information
when requested, the Town Clerk may issue a subpoena to require that the
taxpayer or his or her representative attend a hearing or produce any such
books, accounts and records for examination.
   (C)   Any exempt organization claiming exemption under the provisions of
this subchapter is subject to audit in the same manner as any other person
engaged in the lodging business in the town.
(Ord. 09-2017, passed 7-26-2017)
§ 33.31 TAX OVERPAYMENTS AND DEFICIENCIES.
   An application for refund of tax monies paid in error or by mistake shall be
made within three years after the date of payment for which the refund is
claimed. If the Town Clerk determines that, within three years of the due date,
a vendor overpaid the occupation tax due under this subchapter, the Clerk shall
process a refund or allow a credit against a future remittance from the same
taxpayer. If, at any time, the Town Clerk determines the amount paid is less
than the amount due under this subchapter, the difference together with
interest at the rate of 1.5%, assessed from the date such amount was first due,
shall be paid by the vendor within ten days after receiving written notice and
demand from the Town Clerk. The Town Clerk may extend that time for good cause.
(Ord. 09-2017, passed 7-26-2017)
§ 33.32 TAX INFORMATION CONFIDENTIAL.
   (A)   (1)   All specific information gained under the provisions of this
subchapter which is used to determine the tax due from a taxpayer, whether
furnished by the taxpayer or obtained through audit, shall be treated by the
town and its officers, employees or legal representative as confidential.
Except as directed by judicial order or as provided in this subchapter, no town
officer, employee or legal representative shall divulge any confidential
information.
      (2)   If directed by judicial order, the officials charged with the
custody of such information shall be required to provide only such information
as is directly involved in the action or proceeding. Any town officer or
employee who shall knowingly divulge any information classified herein as
confidential, in any manner, except in accordance with proper judicial order,
or as otherwise provided in this subchapter or by law, shall be guilty of a
violation hereof punishable by a fine but not imprisonment.
   (B)   The Town Clerk may furnish to officials of any other governmental
entity who may be owed sales tax any confidential information; provided that
such jurisdiction enters into an agreement with the town to grant reciprocal
privileges to the town.
   (C)   Nothing contained in this section shall be construed to prohibit the
delivery to the taxpayer of his or her duly authorized representative a copy of
such confidential information relating to such taxpayer, the publication of
statistics so classified as to prevent the identification of particular
taxpayers, the publication of the aggregate revenues generated by the tax or
the inspection of such confidential information by an officer, employee or
legal representative of the town.
(Ord. 09-2017, passed 7-26-2017)
§ 33.33 FORMS AND REGULATIONS.
   The Town Clerk is hereby authorized to prescribe forms and promulgate rules
and regulations to aid in the making of returns, the ascertainment, assessment
and collection of said occupation tax on the provision of lodging and in
particular and without limiting the general language of this subchapter, to
provide for:
   (A)   A form of report on the provision of lodging to be supplied to all
vendors; and
   (B)   The records which vendors providing lodging are to keep concerning the
tax imposed by this subchapter.
(Ord. 09-2017, passed 7-26-2017)
§ 33.34 ENFORCEMENT AND PENALTIES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to intentionally, knowingly or
recklessly fail to pay the tax imposed by this subchapter, or to make any false
or fraudulent return, or for any person to otherwise violate any provisions of
this subchapter.
   (B)   A penalty in the amount of 10% of the tax due or the sum of $10,
whichever is greater, shall be imposed upon the vendor and become due in the
event the tax is not remitted by the tenth day of the month as required by this
subchapter, or such other date as prescribed in writing by the Town Clerk, and
1.5% interest shall accrue each month on the unpaid balance. The Town Clerk is
hereby authorized to waive for good cause shown any penalty assessed.
   (C)   (1)   If any part of a deficiency is due to negligence or intentional
disregard of the provisions of this subchapter or rules and regulations
concerning the same, but without intent to defraud, then there shall be added
10% of the total amount of the deficiency.
      (2)   If any part of the deficiency is due to fraud with the intent to
evade the tax, then there shall be added 50% of total amount of the deficiency.
      (3)   The penalty under this division (C) shall be in addition to the
penalty under division (B) above, and in all cases, the whole amount of the
unpaid tax, together with all penalties and interest, shall become due and
payable ten days after written notice and demand by the Town Clerk.
   (D)   (1)   If any vendor fails to make a return and pay the tax imposed by
this subchapter, the town may make an estimate, based upon available
information of the amount of tax due and add the penalties and interest
provided above. The town shall mail notice of such estimate, by certified mail,
to the vendor at his or her address as indicated in the town records.
      (2)   Such estimate shall thereupon become an assessment, and such
assessment shall be final and due and payable from the taxpayer to the Town
Clerk ten days from the date of service of the notice or the date of mailing by
certified mail; provided, however, that within the ten-day period such
delinquent taxpayer may petition the Town Clerk for a modification of such
assessment and shall, within such ten-day period, furnish the Town Clerk the
documents, facts and figures showing the correct amount of the taxes due and
owing.
   (E)   (1)   Such petition shall be in writing and the facts and figures
submitted shall be submitted either in writing or orally, and shall be given by
the taxpayer under penalty or perjury.
      (2)   Thereupon, the Town Clerk may modify such assessment in accordance
with the facts submitted in order to effectuate the provisions of this
subchapter. Such assessment shall be considered the final order of the Town
Clerk, and may be reviewed under the Rule 106(a)(4) of the Colorado Rules of
Civil Procedure, provided that the taxpayer gives written notice to the Town
Clerk of its intention to seek review within ten days after receipt of the
final order of assessment.
Penalty, see §
33.99
§ 33.35 TAX LIEN.
   (A)   (1)   The tax imposed by this subchapter, together with the interest
and penalties herein provided and the costs of collection which may be
incurred, shall be and until paid remain, a first and prior lien superior to
all other liens on all the tangible personal property of a taxpayer within the
town and may be foreclosed by seizing under distraint warrant and selling so
much thereof as may be necessary to discharge the lien.
      (2)   Such distraint warrant may be issued by the Town Clerk whenever the
taxpayer is in default in the payment of the tax, interest, penalty or costs.
Such warrant may be served and the goods subject to such lien seized by any
town police officer, the County Sheriff of the county wherein the property may
be located or any duly authorized employee of the town.
      (3)   The property so seized may be sold by the agency seizing the same
or by the Town Clerk, at public auction after ten days have passed following an
advertised notice in a newspaper published in the town, in the same manner as
is prescribed by law in respect to executions against property upon judgment of
a court of record, and the remedies of garnishment shall apply.
   (B)   The tax imposed by this subchapter shall be, and remain, a first and
prior lien, except as otherwise provided by law, superior to all other liens on
the real property and appurtenant premises at which the taxable transactions
occurred.
(Ord. 09-2017, passed 7-26-2017)
§ 33.36 RECOVERY OF UNPAID TAX.
   (A)   The Town Clerk may also treat any such taxes, penalties, costs or
interest due and unpaid as a debt due the town from the taxpayer.
   (B)   In case of failure to pay the taxes, or any portion thereof, or any
penalty, costs or interest thereon, when due, the Town Clerk may recover at law
the amount of such taxes, penalties, costs, the reasonable value of any
attorney’s time or the reasonable attorney’s fees charged, plus interest, in
any county or district court of the county wherein the taxpayer resides or had
a principal place of business (at the time the tax became due) having
jurisdiction of the amount sought to be collected.
   (C)   The return of the taxpayer or the assessment made by the Town Clerk
shall be prima facie proof of the amount due.
   (D)   (1)   Such actions may be actions in attachment, and writs of
attachment may be issued to the town police or the County Sheriff of the county
wherein the property may be located, as the case may be, and in any such
proceeding, no bond shall be required of the Town Clerk, nor shall any police
officer or Sheriff require of the Town Clerk an indemnifying bond for executing
the writ of attachment or writ of execution upon any judgment entered in such
proceedings.
      (2)   The Town Clerk may prosecute appeals in such cases without the
necessity of providing bond therefor.
   (E)   It shall be the duty of the Town Attorney, when requested by the Town
Board, to commence action for the recovery of taxes due under this subchapter
and this remedy shall be in addition to all other existing remedies or remedies
provided in this subchapter.
   (F)   The town may certify the amount of any delinquent tax, plus interest,
penalties and the costs of collection, as a charge against the property at
which the taxable transaction occurred to the County Treasurer for collection
in the same manner as delinquent ad valorem taxes.
(Ord. 09-2017, passed 7-26-2017)
§ 33.37 STATUS OF UNPAID TAX IN BANKRUPTCY AND RECEIVERSHIP.
   Whenever the business or property of a taxpayer subject to this subchapter
shall be placed in receivership, bankruptcy or assignment for the benefit of
creditors, or seized under distraint for taxes, all taxes, penalties and
interest imposed by this subchapter and for which the taxpayer is in any way
liable under the terms of this subchapter shall be a prior and preferred lien
against all the property of the taxpayer, except as to other tax liens which
have attached prior to the filing of the notice, and no sheriff, receiver,
assignee or other officer shall sell the property of any person subject to this
subchapter under process or order of any court, without first ascertaining from
the Town Clerk the amount of any taxes due and payable under this subchapter,
and if there are any such taxes due, owing and unpaid, it shall be the duty of
such officer to first pay the amount of the taxes out of the proceeds of such
sale before making payment of any monies to any judgment creditor or other
claimants of whatsoever kind or nature, except the costs of the proceedings and
other preexisting tax liens as above provided.
(Ord. 09-2017, passed 7-26-2017)
§ 33.38 HEARINGS, SUBPOENAS AND WITNESS FEES.
   (A)   Hearings before the Town Clerk pursuant to provisions in this
subchapter shall be held pursuant to this subchapter and rules and regulations
promulgated by the Town Clerk. Any subpoena issued pursuant to this subchapter
may be enforced by the Town Municipal Judge, pursuant to C.R.S. § 13-10-112(2).
The fees of witnesses for attendance at hearings shall be the same as the fees
of witnesses before the District Court, such fees to be paid when the witness
is excused from further attendance. When the witness is subpoenaed at the
instance of the Town Clerk, such fees shall be paid by the town. When witness
is subpoenaed at the instance of any party to any such proceeding, the Town
Clerk may require that the cost of service of the subpoena and the fee of the
witness be borne by the party at whose instance the witness is summoned, and,
in such case, the Town Clerk may require a deposit to cover the cost of such
service and witness fees. A subpoena issued as aforesaid shall be served in the
same manner as a subpoena issued out of a court of record.
   (B)   The Town Municipal Judge, upon the application of the Town Clerk, may
compel the attendance of witnesses; the production of books, papers, records or
memoranda; and the giving of testimony before the Town Clerk, or duly
authorized hearing officers, by an action for contempt, or otherwise, in the
same manner as production of evidence may be compelled before the court.
(Ord. 09-2017, passed 7-26-2017)
§ 33.39 DEPOSITIONS.
   The Town Clerk or any party in an investigation or hearing before the Town
Clerk may cause the deposition of witnesses residing within or without the
state to be taken in the manner prescribed by law for like depositions in civil
actions in courts of this state and to that end compel the attendance of
witnesses and the production of books, papers, records or memoranda.
(Ord. 09-2017, passed 7-26-2017)
§ 33.40 STATUTE OF LIMITATIONS.
   (A)   Except as otherwise provided in this section, the taxes for any
period, together with interest thereon and penalties with respect thereto,
imposed by this subchapter shall not be assessed, nor shall notice of lien be
filed, or distraint warrant be issued, or suit for collection be instituted, or
any other action to collect the same be commenced, more than three years after
the date on which the tax was or is payable. Nor shall any lien continue after
such period, except for taxes assessed before the expiration of such three-year
period, notice of lien with respect to which has been filed prior to the
expiration of such period.
   (B)   In case of a false or fraudulent return with intent to evade taxation,
the tax, together with interest and penalties thereon, may be assessed, or
proceedings for the collection of such taxes may be commenced at any time.
   (C)   Before the expiration of such period of limitation, the taxpayer and
the Town Clerk may agree, in writing to an extension thereof, and the period so
agreed on may be extended by subsequent agreements in writing.
(Ord. 09-2017, passed 7-26-2017)
§ 33.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person convicted of a violation of this chapter shall be punished
as provided in §
10.99 of this code.
   (B)   It is a violation of §§
33.01 through
33.14 for any person subject to the tax levied by §§
33.01 through
33.14 to refuse to make any return provided to be made; to make any false or
fraudulent return or any false statements in any return; to fail or refuse to
make payment to the Town Manager of any taxes due the town; or in any manner to
evade the payment of the tax, or any part thereof imposed by §§
33.01 through
33.14; or for any person to aid or abet another in any attempt to evade the
payment of the tax imposed by §§
33.01 through
33.14. Any person convicted of a violation of §§
33.01 through
33.14 shall be punished by a fine of not more than $2,650 (as adjusted for
inflation from time to time, pursuant to C.R.S. § 13-10-113). Each day a
violation exists shall be considered a separate punishable violation.
   (C)   (1)   Any person convicted of a violation of §§
33.25 through
33.40 shall be punished by a fine of not more than $2,650 (as adjusted for
inflation from time to time, pursuant to C.R.S. § 13-10-113). Each day, or
portion thereof, that any violation of §§
33.25 through
33.40 continues shall constitute a separate offense.
      (2)   A penalty in the amount of 10% of the tax due or the sum of $10,
whichever is greater, shall be imposed upon the vendor and become due in the
event the tax is not remitted by the tenth day of the month as required by §§
33.25 through
33.40, or such other date as prescribed in writing by the Town Clerk, and 1.5%
interest shall accrue each month on the unpaid balance. The Town Clerk is
hereby authorized to waive for good cause shown any penalty assessed.
      (3)   Any part of a deficiency is due to negligence or intentional
disregard of the provisions of §§
33.25 through
33.40 or rules and regulations concerning the same, but without intent to
defraud, then there shall be added 10% of the total amount of the deficiency.
If any part of the deficiency is due to fraud with the intent to evade the tax,
then there shall be added 50% of total amount of the deficiency. The penalty
under this division (C)(3) shall be in addition to the penalty under division
(C)(2) above, and, in all cases, the whole amount of the unpaid tax, together
with all penalties and interest, shall become due and payable ten days after
written notice and demand by the Town Clerk.
      (4)   If any vendor fails to make a return and pay the tax imposed by §§
33.25 through
33.40, the town may make an estimate, based upon available information of the
amount of tax due and add the penalties and interest provided above. The town
shall mail notice of such estimate, by certified mail, to the vendor at his or
her address as indicated in the town records. Such estimate shall thereupon
become an assessment, and such assessment shall be final and due and payable
from the taxpayer to the Town Clerk ten days from the date of service of the
notice or the date of mailing by certified mail; provided, however, that within
the ten-day period such delinquent taxpayer may petition the Town Clerk for a
modification of such assessment and shall, within such ten-day period, furnish
the Town Clerk the documents, facts and figures showing the correct amount of
the taxes due and owing.
      (5)   Such petition shall be in writing and the facts and figures
submitted shall be submitted either in writing or orally, and shall be given by
the taxpayer under penalty or perjury. Thereupon, the Town Clerk may modify
such assessment in accordance with the facts submitted in order to effectuate
the provisions of §§
33.25 through
33.40. Such assessment shall be considered the final order of the Town Clerk,
and may be reviewed under the Rule 106(a)(4) of the Colorado Rules of Civil
Procedure, provided that the taxpayer gives written notice to the Town Clerk of
its intention to seek review within ten days after receipt of the final order
of assessment.
(Ord. 09-2017, passed 7-26-2017; Ord. 10-2017, passed 7-26-2017; Ord. 02-2019,
passed 3-27-2019)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   PUBLIC UTILITIES
      
51.   WATER
      
52.   WATER CONSERVATION
      
53.   BACKFLOW AND CROSS- CONNECTIONS
      
54.   SEWERS
CHAPTER 50: PUBLIC UTILITIES
Section
Interference or Tampering with Public Utilities
   
50.01   Definitions
   
50.02   Damage to town’s utilities prohibited
   
50.03   Prohibited acts related to meters
   
50.04   Right-of-way permit
Taps and Meters
   
50.15   Separate connections required
Wastewater Activity Enterprise
   
50.30   Enterprise declaration and creation
   
50.31   Governing Board
   
50.32   Enterprise powers
   
50.33   Assets
   
50.34   Enterprise Fund
   
50.35   Ratification and approval of prior actions
Water Enterprise
   
50.50   Establishment of enterprise
   
50.51   Governing body
   
50.52   Maintenance of enterprise status
   
50.53   Issuance of bonds
   
50.54   Enterprise fees and charges
   
50.55   Water enterprise annual budget
   
50.56   Water Revenue Fund established
   
50.57   Ratification and approval of prior actions
 
   
50.99   Penalty
INTERFERENCE OR TAMPERING WITH PUBLIC UTILITIES
§ 50.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PERSON. Any individual, firm, partnership, corporation, company,
association, joint-stock association or other legal entity.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY. The surface of, and the space above and below, a public
street, road, highway, freeway, land, path, public way or place, open space,
park, alley, court, boulevard, parkway, drive or other easement now or
hereafter held by or under the control of the town.
   TAMPERING or TAMPER. The act of damaging, altering, adjusting or in any
manner interfering with or obstructing the action or operation of any meter or
other device provided for measuring, registering, determining or limiting the
amount of water consumed.
(Ord. 16-2017, passed 10-25-2017)
§ 50.02 DAMAGE TO TOWN’S UTILITIES PROHIBITED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, directly or indirectly, to
damage, pollute, contaminate, trespass upon, injure, tamper, meddle or
interfere in any way with any part of the town’s water or wastewater systems
and facilities, including, but not limited to, mains, the town’s water or
wastewater systems and facilities, including, but not limited to, mains,
trenches, pipes, meters, drains, filters, valves, gauges, devices, grounds,
enclosures, buildings, structures, water treatment or testing facilities,
equipment, waters, streams, ditches, waterways, watercourses or watersheds.
   (B)   Any expense caused to the town for the repair or replacement of
damaged, tampered with or misused utilities shall be charged against and
collected from the person who caused the expense.
(Ord. 16-2017, passed 10-25-2017) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.03 PROHIBITED ACTS RELATED TO METERS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to intentionally, knowingly or
recklessly tamper with, modify or disconnect a water meter; to render it
inoperable or inaccurate; or to place, or cause to be placed, in a water meter
pit serving the property any type of device or means that would allow or permit
water to flow to the property without such water flowing through the water
meter assigned to the owner of such property.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to deny the town access to private
property for the purpose of reading the meter or any other authorized purpose.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person to access the in-ground water
meter box without first receiving permission from the Town Manager, or his or
her designee, except in cases of extreme emergency whereby the water may be
shut off by the owner, customer or person to prevent property damage from a
water leak. In such cases, the person, owner or customer must inform the town
within 12 hours of the event, excepting weekends and holidays in which case he
or she shall notify the town on the next open business day.
   (D)   In any prosecution for a violation of this section, if evidence is
introduced showing that there is a violation of this section, coupled with
proof establishing the identity of the person or persons shown by the town’s
records as responsible for payment on the water and sewer account established
for such property, such evidence shall constitute a prima facie presumption
that the person or persons shown on said water and sewer account committed the
offense charged.
(Ord. 16-2017, passed 10-25-2017) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.04 RIGHT-OF-WAY PERMIT.
   (A)   Permit required. No person, except an employee or contractor of the
town authorized by the Town Manager to perform an official duty of the town,
shall undertake, or permit to be undertaken, any construction, excavation or
work in town rights-of-way or to the town’s water or wastewater systems without
first obtaining a right-of-way permit from the town.
   (B)   Application; fee. Application for a right-of-way permit shall be made
on a form provided by the town and shall be accompanied by a fee established by
resolution of the Board of Trustees from time to time.
   (C)   License, insurance, and financial guarantee required. All permittees
under this section must have a contractor’s license from the town in accordance
with § 111.25 of this code and must furnish, with the application for the
permit, proof of insurance, current for all times for which the permit is
sought, providing for the following minimum coverage: workers’ compensation
insurance in statutory amounts and public liability and public property damage
insurance with minimum combined single limits of $1,000,000 each occurrence and
$1,000,000 aggregate. Once the license is issued, the permittee must, at all
times, keep current the insurance required by this section, and failure to do
so may be cause for suspension or revocation of the permit. The town may
require a deposit, bond, letter of credit or other security to guarantee the
work in the right-of-way is completed in compliance with this subchapter and
all terms and conditions of the permit.
   (D)   Denial of application. The town may deny an application for a right-
of-way permit for the following reasons:
      (1)   The application is incomplete and the deficiencies are not remedied
after reasonable notice to the applicant;
      (2)   The work for which the permit is requested is unnecessary or in
violation of town ordinances, rules or regulations;
      (3)   The applicant is in default of any other outstanding permit of
similar character without good cause;
      (4)   The applicant has failed to obtain the required license or
insurance;
      (5)   The applicant has failed to pay the required permit fee;
      (6)   The applicant is not qualified by experience, training or education
to engage in the activity authorized by the permit;
      (7)   The applicant has had a contractor license or permit revoked or
suspended; or
      (8)   The town has determined that the location of the facility will
interfere with existing or proposed improvements in the public right-of-way to
be affected.
   (E)   Permit to be displayed. A copy of each permit obtained shall be
maintained on the job site and available for inspection upon request by any
officer or employee of the town.
   (F)   Work area; time period.
      (1)   No permittee shall perform construction, excavation or work in an
area larger or at a location different, or for a longer period of time than
that specified in the permit or permit application.
      (2)   If, after construction, excavation or work is commenced under an
approved permit, it becomes necessary to perform construction, excavation or
work in a larger or different area than originally requested under the
application or for a longer period of time, the permittee shall notify the town
immediately, and within 24 hours shall file a supplementary application for the
additional construction, excavation or work.
   (G)   Permittee responsibilities.
      (1)   The permittee shall be responsible for all work performed under the
right-of-way permit, regardless of whether or not the work is performed by
permittee of his, her, their or its subcontractors.
      (2)   All work shall be in accordance with applicable law and in
accordance with the following.
         (a)   All work performed under the permit shall be in accordance with
rules and regulations adopted by the Town Manager from time to time, which such
rules and regulations shall provide for the proper care and protection of the
public rights-of-way and persons and property thereupon.
         (b)   The permittee shall be responsible for placing and maintaining
sufficient barricades and warning devices to warn the general public of such
work.
         (c)   The permittee shall be responsible for notification of all
public utility companies and for determining the location of existing
underground utilities prior to proceeding with construction. All work performed
in the area of existing utilities shall be in accordance with the requirements
of the agencies responsible for such existing utilities. The permittee, at his,
her, their or its own expense, shall protect all existing utilities and be
responsible for their repair if damaged during construction.
         (d)   1.   All construction debris or mud tracked onto existing
rights-of-way shall be removed immediately.
            2.   All disturbed areas, including landscaping, shall be restored
to a condition substantially similar to their condition existing prior to the
initiation of construction.
         (e)   1.   The town shall have the right to access the construction
site at any time to inspect materials and workmanship and to inspect the
installation to determine compliance with the permit, the requirements of this
subchapter, specifications adopted by the town and all other town ordinances or
resolutions.
            2.   The town shall have the right to stop work for violations of
this subchapter.
         (f)   The permittee shall be responsible for any damage or injury to
persons, property or animals related to its work under the permit.
   (H)   Revocation of permit. The town may revoke a right-of-way permit for
the following reasons:
      (1)   The permittee is found to have violated this subchapter, any
applicable town ordinance or resolution or any terms or conditions of the
permit;
      (2)   The permittee obtained the permit by fraud or misrepresentation;
      (3)   Revocation is necessary to maintain public health, safety and
welfare; or
      (4)   The permittee fails to maintain the required insurance during the
time of the permit.
(Ord. 16-2017, passed 10-25-2017) Penalty, see §
50.99
TAPS AND METERS
§ 50.15 SEPARATE CONNECTIONS REQUIRED.
   (A)   (1)   Regardless of common ownership, each structurally independent
building shall have separate meters and taps to the town’s water and sewer
mains.
      (2)   For purposes of this section, buildings are considered STRUCTURALLY
INDEPENDENT if they do not have a common foundation, walls and roof. Detached
accessory structures are structurally independent buildings.
   (B)   No connection to the town’s water and sewer systems shall be made by
extending the service lines from one building to another building.
   (C)   (1)   Separate tap and meter fees shall be due for each tap and meter,
regardless of building ownership.
      (2)   Taps and meters may be used to serve only that property for which
the tap and meter were purchased and approved to serve.
   (D)   Notwithstanding the foregoing, the requirement for separate taps shall
not apply to the following: for residential properties, an outbuilding, such as
a garage, utility shed or workshop, the use of which is clearly accessory and
subordinate to the primary use of the property.
   (E)   The use of common water or sewer taps and service lines serving more
than one building lawfully established prior to the adoption of this section
may be continued, except that separate taps, meters and service lines shall be
installed if:
      (1)   The property upon which the buildings are located is subdivided;
      (2)   Any of the buildings are sold or replaced;
      (3)   The building use is changed in a manner that increases the
equivalent residential usage (EQR) rating; or
      (4)   The service line serving the buildings must be substantially
repaired or replaced.
   (F)   All buildings are required to contain the minimum number of plumbing
fixtures required by the most recent edition of the International Building and
Plumbing Codes adopted by the town.
(Ord. 10-2015, passed 10-14-2015) Penalty, see §
50.99
WASTEWATER ACTIVITY ENTERPRISE
§ 50.30 ENTERPRISE DECLARATION AND CREATION.
   (A)   The Board hereby finds and determines that it will provide wastewater
facilities and services by means of the town’s wastewater activity enterprise
in conformity with all applicable state laws.
   (B)   The Board further:
      (1)   Recognizes and confirms that the enterprise is an “enterprise”
within the meaning of the TABOR; and
      (2)   Declares its intent that the enterprise be operated and maintained
so as to exclude its activities from the application of TABOR.
   (C)   Therefore, the Board hereby creates the “Town of Wiggins Wastewater
Activity Enterprise”. The Board shall take all actions on behalf of the
enterprise as hereinafter further provided.
(Ord. 09-2015, passed 9-9-2015)
§ 50.31 GOVERNING BOARD.
   The Town Board of Trustees shall constitute the governing board of the
enterprise (the “governing board”). The governing board shall conduct the
business of the enterprise in the same manner and follow the same procedures as
the Town Board of Trustees. All official business of the enterprise shall be
conducted at regularly scheduled or special meetings of the Board. The record
of the proceedings of the governing board may be incorporated in the minutes of
the Board and shall not be required to be recorded separately. No additional
oath of office, qualification or procedure shall apply with respect to service
as a member of the governing board. All business and actions of the governing
board shall be governed by and made subject to all requirements, privileges,
immunities, protections, limitations and other provisions of law.
(Ord. 09-2015, passed 9-9-2015)
§ 50.32 ENTERPRISE POWERS.
   The enterprise shall exercise the powers of an enterprise under TABOR,
including, without limitation, the power to issue or reissue bonds, notes or
other obligations, payable from the revenues derived or to be derived from its
provision of services. The enterprise shall also be entitled to exercise such
powers as are set forth in any applicable state law, including the power to set
rates, fees and charges for services provided by the enterprise; provided,
however, in no event shall the enterprise have the authority to levy or collect
taxes, whether sales taxes, use taxes or ad valorem taxes, nor shall the
enterprise have the power to direct the town to exercise its taxing power on
behalf of the enterprise.
(Ord. 09-2015, passed 9-9-2015)
§ 50.33 ASSETS.
   Assets to be operated and maintained by the enterprise shall either remain
in the ownership of the town or be owned by the enterprise, as the Board
determines. The town hereby assigns the use and management of all assets owned
by the town, whether real or personal, to the enterprise. The enterprise shall
hold title to assets it owns in the name of the “Town of Wiggins, Colorado
acting by and through its Wastewater Activity Enterprise”.
(Ord. 09-2015, passed 9-9-2015)
§ 50.34 ENTERPRISE FUND.
   An Enterprise Fund shall be established to separately account for all
revenues and expenditure incurred by the enterprise. The enterprise shall
prepare an annual budget which may be included in the budget prepared for the
town. All budgets, reports, audits and financial operations of the enterprise
shall conform to and be prepared in accordance with generally accepted
accounting principles applicable to governmental units and other requirements
of law.
(Ord. 09-2015, passed 9-9-2015)
§ 50.35 RATIFICATION AND APPROVAL OF PRIOR ACTIONS.
   All actions heretofore taken by the Mayor, any member of the Board, officers
and employees of the town, not inconsistent with the provisions of this
subchapter, relating to the enterprise, or actions to be taken in respect
thereof, are hereby ratified, approved and confirmed.
(Ord. 09-2015, passed 9-9-2015)
WATER ENTERPRISE
§ 50.50 ESTABLISHMENT OF ENTERPRISE.
   There is hereby established the “Town of Wiggins Water Enterprise” (the
“enterprise”). The enterprise shall consist of the town’s water, operations and
properties, now owned or hereafter acquired, whether situated within or without
the town boundaries, including all present or future improvements, extensions,
enlargements, betterments, replacements or additions thereof or thereto. The
enterprise shall have all of the authority, powers, rights, obligations and
duties as may be provided or permitted by state law and the Colorado
Constitution, and as may be further prescribed by ordinance or resolution of
the town.
(Ord. 6-10, passed 10-13-2010)
§ 50.51 GOVERNING BODY.
   (A)   The governing body of the enterprise (the “governing body”) shall be
the Town Board of Trustees, and shall be subject to all of the applicable laws,
rules and regulations pertaining to the Board of Trustees. Whenever the Board
of Trustees is in session, the governing body shall also be deemed to be in
session.
   (B)   It shall not be necessary for the governing body to meet separately
from the regular and special meetings of the Board of Trustees, nor shall it be
necessary for the governing body to specifically announce or acknowledge that
actions taken thereby are taken by the governing body of the enterprise. The
governing body may conduct its affairs in the same manner and subject to the
same laws which apply to the Board of Trustees for the same or similar matters;
provided that, in accordance with C.R.S. § 37-45.1-104(2), the governing body
may authorize the issuance of bonds by adoption of a resolution.
(Ord. 6-10, passed 10-13-2010)
§ 50.52 MAINTENANCE OF ENTERPRISE STATUS.
   (A)   The enterprise shall, at all times and in all ways, conduct its
affairs so as to continue to qualify as an enterprise within the meaning of
Article X, § 20 of the Colorado Constitution.
   (B)   Specifically, but not by way of limitation, the enterprise is not
authorized and shall not receive 10% or more of its annual revenue in grants
from all state and local governments combined.
(Ord. 6-10, passed 10-13-2010)
§ 50.53 ISSUANCE OF BONDS.
   (A)   The enterprise is authorized to issue bonds, notes or other
obligations payable from the revenues derived or to be derived from the system.
   (B)   The Board of Trustees may also authorize the issuance of such bonds,
notes or other obligations in accordance with the laws of the state, and in so
doing shall be deemed to be acting as both the governing body and the Board of
Trustees.
(Ord. 6-10, passed 10-13-2010)
§ 50.54 ENTERPRISE FEES AND CHARGES.
   The Board of Trustees shall adopt, by resolution or ordinance, for and on
behalf of the enterprise the following rates, fees and charges:
   (A)   Minimum and sufficient water rates, fees and charges;
   (B)   Plant investment fees; and
   (C)   Other fees and charges as the Board of Trustees deems necessary to
cover the cost of inspection, testing fees for engineering design review,
operations, maintenance and extensions of the system.
(Ord. 6-10, passed 10-13-2010)
§ 50.55 WATER ENTERPRISE ANNUAL BUDGET.
   The Board of Trustees shall adopt an annual budget for the enterprise,
separate from the town’s General Fund budget.
(Ord. 6-10, passed 10-13-2010)
§ 50.56 WATER REVENUE FUND ESTABLISHED.
   (A)   There is hereby established a fund, to be known as the “Water Revenue
Fund”, in which shall be deposited all revenues from the various operations of
the water system. The existing Water Fund of the town is hereby designated as
such Water Revenue Fund. Revenues from the various operations of the water
system shall be accounted for separately under the Water Revenue Fund. All
revenues related to the system, including, but not limited to, all rates, fees,
credits and charges (“system revenues”), shall be accounted for in the Water
Revenue Fund as being revenues of the system. System revenues shall be used:
first, to pay for the operation and maintenance expenses of the system; second,
to pay debt service; third, to fund or replenish any required debt service or
other reserve fund; fourth, for the replacement of and additions to the system;
and fifth, for any other purpose approved by the Board of Trustees as the
governing body of the enterprise. All amounts on hand in such fund shall be
invested by the Board of Trustees in investments proper for public funds.
   (B)   The enterprise may pledge all or any portion of the Water Revenue
Fund, including revenues anticipated to be collected, to the payment of
principal; interest; premium, if any; and reserves for revenue bonds or any
other obligations lawfully issued or otherwise contracted for by the enterprise
for the payment or other financing of costs of the system, or for the purpose
of refunding any obligations issued or otherwise contracted for such purpose.
(Ord. 6-10, passed 10-13-2010)
§ 50.57 RATIFICATION AND APPROVAL OF PRIOR ACTIONS.
   All actions heretofore taken by the officers of the town and the members of
the Board of Trustees, not inconsistent with the provisions of this subchapter,
relating to the operation or creation of the enterprise, are hereby ratified,
approved and confirmed.
(Ord. 6-10, passed 10-13-2010)
§ 50.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person convicted of violating any of the provisions of §§
50.01 through
50.04 shall be punished by a fine of not less than $250 and not more than
$2,650, as shall be adjusted for inflation from time to time, pursuant to
C.R.S. § 13-10-113. Each act or omission in violation of one or more of the
provisions of §§
50.01 through
50.04 shall be deemed a separate violation for each and every day that such act
(s) or omission(s) occur(s).
(Ord. 16-2017, passed 10-25-2017; Ord. 02-2019, passed 3-27-2019)
CHAPTER 51: WATER
Section
Restrictions
   
51.01   Unauthorized supplying of water to premises prohibited
   
51.02   Authority of town to turn off water in mains
   
51.03   Use of water from fire hydrants
   
51.04   Use of water restricted during fires
   
51.05   Obstruction or pollution of reservoirs, trenches, pipes prohibited
Water Service
   
51.20   Meters required
   
51.21   Stopcock and box required near property line
   
51.22   Resale of town water by consumer prohibited
   
51.23   Responsibility of consumer for maintenance of service pipes
   
51.24   Taking up of service pipes; disconnection of service
   
51.25   Furnishing of water outside town
Connections
   
51.40   Permit required
   
51.41   Connection charges
   
51.42   Completion of work; turning on of water
   
51.43   Making of connections
Rates and Charges
   
51.55   Schedule of rates
   
51.56   Payment of charges
   
51.57   Delinquencies; remedies
   
51.58   Responsibility of property owners
   
51.59   Accounts for water service
   
51.60   Utilities deposit
 
   
51.99   Penalty
RESTRICTIONS
§ 51.01 UNAUTHORIZED SUPPLYING OF WATER TO PREMISES PROHIBITED.
   No person shall turn water into any premises in the town, except by
authority of the Town Manager.
(Ord. 5-91, passed 8-14-1991) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.02 AUTHORITY OF TOWN TO TURN OFF WATER IN MAINS.
   The Town Manager or designee may cause the water to be shut off from the
street mains when it deems it necessary for repairing the mains or the
waterworks, for making connections or extensions to the same or for the purpose
of cleaning the same.
(Ord. 5-91, passed 8-14-1991)
§ 51.03 USE OF WATER FROM FIRE HYDRANTS.
   No water shall be used from the fire hydrants of the town, except for the
extinguishment of fires and by regularly constituted fire companies for the
cleaning, washing or testing of their engines or other apparatus, or for such
other purposes as authorized by the Town Manager. Such use shall be free of
charge. The Town Manager may issue a special license upon application and may
let water from such hydrants when necessary for testing the condition of the
waterworks, for purifying the water or for repairing the waterworks.
(Ord. 5-91, passed 8-14-1991) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.04 USE OF WATER RESTRICTED DURING FIRES.
   No water consumer shall use any water for irrigation or sprinkling of lawns
during any fire, or while the Fire Department is using water for fire purposes.
It shall be the duty of all water consumers, when a fire alarm is sounded, to
at once turn off the water to his or her garden or lawn.
(Ord. 5-91, passed 8-14-1991) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.05 OBSTRUCTION OR POLLUTION OF RESERVOIRS, TRENCHES, PIPES PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person shall throw or cast any substance into any reservoir, well,
trench, pipe or drain used in and necessary for the construction, maintenance
and operation of the town waterworks, which substance shall tend to fill up
such reservoir or fill up or obstruct the flow of water in any such stream,
trench, pipe or drain. No person shall throw or cast into any such place any
such filthy or other substance that shall tend to pollute the water therein.
All discontinued and abandoned wells shall be capped as required by the Town
Council, by C.R.S. § 37-91-110 and by the rules and regulations promulgated by
the State Board of Examiners of Water Well Construction and Pump Installation
Contractors.
   (B)   The employees of the town, in the discharge of their duties under this
chapter and for any purposes concerning the administration of the water system
of the town, including the reading and inspection of water meters, shall have
the right and authority to enter upon any premises to which water is being
supplied by the town.
(Ord. 5-91, passed 8-14-1991) Penalty, see §
51.99
WATER SERVICE
§ 51.20 METERS REQUIRED.
   (A)   Any water taps requested and installed after the effective date of
this chapter shall have meters installed at the time of construction. For
residential users, the meter shall be installed as near as practicable to the
stopcock on the service pipe outside the building or improvement as located on
the premises of the user. For business or industrial users, the meter shall be
installed as designated by the Town Manager.
   (B)   (1)   All such meters shall be furnished by the town and paid for by
the consumers and shall be under the control of and read by the town.
      (2)   Where more than one ultimate consumer is using from the same meter,
as in office buildings, apartment houses, trailer courts and other additional
outlets, the Board of Trustees may from time to time as it sees fit by
resolution, establish additional charges covering such additional usage.
(Ord. 5-91, passed 8-14-1991) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.21 STOPCOCK AND BOX REQUIRED NEAR PROPERTY LINE.
   (A)   The owner or lessee of any service pipes shall keep, or cause to be
kept, as near the property line of the property as feasible, a stopcock with
box and cover in connection with such pipes and meter.
   (B)   Such stopcock shall be kept in good condition so that the Town Manager
and his or her employees shall be able to shut off the water from such service
pipes at any time.
   (C)   In case there is no sidewalk where such pipes are extended, such
stopcock shall be in some conspicuous and accessible place near the premises so
supplied with water and on some public highway to be designated by the Town
Manager.
(Ord. 5-91, passed 8-14-1991) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.22 RESALE OF TOWN WATER BY CONSUMER PROHIBITED.
   No water from the town shall be resold by the purchaser thereof and a
violation thereof shall entitle the town to cut off the water supply of any
violator.
(Ord. 5-91, passed 8-14-1991) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.23 RESPONSIBILITY OF CONSUMER FOR MAINTENANCE OF SERVICE PIPES.
   (A)   The owner or lessee of any premises to which any town water is
conducted shall keep all pipes and fixtures from the curb stop to his or her
premises and on such premises tight, so as to prevent the waste of water.
   (B)   Upon any such waste resulting from a breakage of such pipes or
fixtures, such person shall forthwith stop such waste by repairing effectually
the old work or laying new work.
   (C)   On noncompliance with this section by such owner or lessee, the Town
Manager may disconnect such service pipes from the mains and slope the orifice
in the mains through which water shall have been transmitted to such service
pipes. Any damage to water lines caused by negligence of any person shall be
paid by the person causing the damage.
(Ord. 5-91, passed 8-14-1991) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.24 TAKING UP OF SERVICE PIPES; DISCONNECTION OF SERVICE.
   In case any person abandoning the use of water takes up his or her service
pipe which had been connected with the water main, the stop ferrule and pipe
between the main and the stopcock on the outside of the sidewalk shall be
forfeited to the town and left in the ground and attached to the main.
(Ord. 5-91, passed 8-14-1991)
§ 51.25 FURNISHING OF WATER OUTSIDE TOWN.
   In no case shall water connections be made outside the town without express
approval of the Board of Trustees and at a connection cost to be set by the
Board of Trustees.
(Ord. 5-91, passed 8-14-1991) Penalty, see §
51.99
CONNECTIONS
§ 51.40 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   Any person desiring to use town water on his or her premises shall
apply to the Town Manager for a permit to have the street mains forming a part
of the town waterworks tapped. Such permit shall be signed by the Town Manager
and shall set forth the name of the person for whose benefit such permit shall
be granted; the size of the stopcock for discharging the water from the mains
to the service pipes; as near as may be, the point at which such tapping is to
be done; the place to which the water is to be conducted; the situation of the
hydrants; and the contemplated use of such water thereby. The Town Manager
shall keep a record of all such permits in a book kept for that purpose in his
or her office, which record shall set forth the substance of any such permit.
No more water shall be used pursuant to such permit than shall be necessary at
the time of placing the service pipes and their fixtures to protect the
tightness of such pipes and their fixtures and the condition of such pipes and
fixtures for the flow of water.
   (B)   Any other legitimate uses than those specified in such permit may be
made of such water only upon obtaining the proper permit therefor.
(Ord. 5-91, passed 8-14-1991)
§ 51.41 CONNECTION CHARGES.
   All charges for water connections shall be established by the Board of
Trustees.
(Ord. 5-91, passed 8-14-1991)
§ 51.42 COMPLETION OF WORK; TURNING ON OF WATER.
   All work undertaken through any permit under this chapter shall be done with
reasonable dispatch and water shall not be turned on until such work is
completed and report thereof made to the Town Clerk.
(Ord. 5-91, passed 8-14-1991) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.43 MAKING OF CONNECTIONS.
   (A)   The Board of Trustees shall appoint a qualified person, who shall be
under the control of the Town Manager, to lay the water mains and lay the
service pipe from the main to the outside line of the sidewalk. The work of
tapping the main and laying such service pipes shall be done in a good and
workmanlike manner.
   (B)   The service pipes shall be placed at least five feet below the surface
of the street where laid. The excavation for the same shall be an open cut or a
tunnel from the main to the sidewalk and the person doing the work, while the
same is being filled up, shall turn on the water enough to cause the dirt to
settle to a level of the surface of the street. A stopcock with a cover shall
be placed on the service pipe at the property line.
   (C)   No tap inserted in the water mains for the purpose of connection with
the service pipes shall have an orifice of a greater diameter than three-
fourths of an inch, or larger as approved by the Board of Trustees. Any such
tap shall be of brass and such service pipes shall be connected with such tap
material as approved by the Town Manager.
   (D)   (1)   Any person having a permit under this chapter may do the rest of
the work not done by the town by which he or she is to obtain water, at his or
her own risk and by his or her own employees.
      (2)   Such work shall be approved by the Town Manager and such work shall
be done according to the provisions of this chapter and the permit.
(Ord. 5-91, passed 8-14-1991) Penalty, see §
51.99
RATES AND CHARGES
§ 51.55 SCHEDULE OF RATES.
   (A)   The Board of Trustees shall from time to time adopt by resolution a
schedule of rates and charges for water delivered by the town, including, but
not limited to, service fees, tap fees, disconnection fees, reconnection fees
and reasonable penalties for any delinquencies, including, but not necessarily
limited to, interest from any date due at a rate not exceeding 1% per month or
a fraction thereof, reasonable attorney’s fees and other costs of collection.
   (B)   When water is delivered by the town for use and consumption outside
the town, the water so delivered shall be paid for at twice the rates, charges
and costs fixed for water delivered in the town, both as to the minimum and all
other uses, upon the approval of the Board of Trustees.
§ 51.56 PAYMENT OF CHARGES.
   All rates and charges specified in this chapter shall be due and payable on
the fifteenth day of each month. The rates and charges shall be maintained on a
monthly basis.
(Ord. 5-91, passed 8-14-1991)
§ 51.57 DELINQUENCIES; REMEDIES.
   (A)   If any charge imposed pursuant to this chapter is not paid by the date
due, the town may avail itself of any or any combination of the following
remedies, in addition to any other available remedies:
      (1)   The town may foreclose the lien imposed by this chapter in
accordance with law;
      (2)   The town may maintain an action in any court of competent
jurisdiction for the amount of the charge due and any interest, costs and
attorney’s fees as allowed by law;
      (3)   The town may certify the amount of the charge due to the County
Clerk and Treasurer, together with all delinquency fees, including the
delinquency certification fee, to become an assessment upon the property served
and to be collected and paid over to the town in the same manner as taxes; and
      (4)   The town may discontinue water service in the following manner.
         (a)   All town water bills shall contain a notice regarding service
termination for nonpayment, which notice shall advise that, once a bill becomes
delinquent, the town will send a notice of termination of service that shall
give a date by which payment must be received or service may be disconnected,
which date shall be no sooner than ten days after the date the disconnection
notice is mailed. The disconnection notice shall further advise that if the
occupant or record owner does not believe reasonable cause exists for the
proposed termination of service, a written request for a conference with the
Town Manager may be filed prior to termination of service. At such conference,
the sole issue to be determined shall be whether the delinquency in fact exists
and the amount of the delinquency.
         (b)   If a discontinuation notice is sent pursuant to this section, a
late fee shall be charged to the record owner.
   (B)   If payment of any charge imposed pursuant to this chapter is made by a
dishonored payment, a bad payment fee shall be imposed in addition to such
charge, and such charge shall be considered delinquent in the same manner as if
no payment had been made.
   (C)   (1)   The payment of any charge imposed pursuant to this chapter shall
be considered delinquent if not received in the offices of the town before the
close of business, pursuant to office hours as established from time to time,
on the last day specified for payment.
      (2)   A delinquency fee shall be charged for any charges not timely paid
in accordance with this chapter.
   (D)   If water service is discontinued as provided in this section, water
service shall not be reinstated to the property until all fees and charges
imposed pursuant to this chapter have been paid in full.
   (E)   Prior to disconnection for nonpayment, town staff is authorized to
enter into payment plans with water customers who have past-due balances, with
terms and conditions to be approved by the Town Manager.
§ 51.58 RESPONSIBILITY OF PROPERTY OWNERS.
   The owners of real property shall, for the purposes of this chapter, be
considered consumers of water delivered by the town to their property and,
together with the occupant, lessee or tenant of such property, shall be jointly
and severally held liable and responsible for the payment of any charges
accruing for such water and services; and their real property may be subjected
to the collections and procedures therefor as provided in this chapter.
(Ord. 5-91, passed 8-14-1991)
§ 51.59 ACCOUNTS FOR WATER SERVICE.
   All accounts for water service shall be kept in the name of the owner of the
property unless the property owner provides his or her written consent that the
account be kept in the name of the tenant in possession of the premises.
Placing the account in the name of the tenant shall not diminish the
responsibility of the owner for such water charges.
(Ord. 01-14, passed 1-8-2014)
§ 51.60 UTILITIES DEPOSIT.
   (A)   Deposit required.
      (1)   Each person establishing a utilities account with the town for a
property owned by the person shall make a utilities deposit with the town in
the amount set by Town Board resolution for each utilities account established.
      (2)   Each person establishing a utilities account with the town for a
property not owned by the person shall make a utilities deposit with the town
in the amount set by Town Board resolution for each utilities account
established.
   (B)   Deposit period.
      (1)   Property owned by customer. Where the customer owns the property
being served, the customer may request the return of the deposit after making
12 consecutive utility bill payments in full on or before the due date. Where
the deposit was not previously returned, the town shall return the deposit upon
payment of the customer’s final bill.
      (2)   Property not owned by customer. Where the customer does not own the
property being served, the town shall return the deposit only upon payment of
the customer’s final bill.
   (C)   Deposit application and forfeiture. When the town cuts off service to
a utilities account for nonpayment of any town-provided utility and the
customer has not brought the utilities account current or made payment
arrangements satisfactory to the town within 15 days of the cutoff date, the
town shall apply the deposit to the utilities account. The customer shall not
be entitled to a refund of any amount of a deposit applied to a utilities
account pursuant to this section. Where the town has applied a deposit as
provided in this section, the customer shall make a new deposit prior to
reconnection.
§ 51.99 PENALTY.
   Any person guilty of violating any provision of this chapter, in addition to
the penalty provided for such violation, shall be responsible for the payment
of all damages arising from such violation.
(Ord. 5-91, passed 8-14-1991)
CHAPTER 52: WATER CONSERVATION
Section
   
52.01   Purpose; intent
   
52.02   Definitions
   
52.03   Declaration of extreme water conservation situation
   
52.04   Landscape irrigation schedule
   
52.05   Extreme water conservation schedule
   
52.06   Additional requirements
   
52.07   Wasting of water prohibited
   
52.08   Enforcement officials
 
   
52.99   Penalty
§ 52.01 PURPOSE; INTENT.
   (A)   It is the purpose and intent of this chapter to proactively establish
procedures for managing water demand in order to conserve the town’s available
water supply and protect the integrity of the town’s water supply facilities,
with particular regard for domestic water use, sanitation and fire protection,
and to protect and preserve public health, welfare and safety and minimize the
adverse impacts of water supply shortage or other water supply emergencies.
   (B)   (1)   This chapter establishes regulations to be implemented during
times of typical water conditions, declared water shortages or declared water
shortage emergencies.
      (2)   It establishes levels of water conservation, with corresponding
water conservation measures, which increase in response to worsening drought
conditions and decreasing available supplies.
(Ord. 07-2022, passed 5-25-2022)
§ 52.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADDRESS.
      (1)   The house number of a physical location of a specific property.
      (2)   If a lot number in a mobile home park or similar community is used
by the U.S. Postal Service to determine a delivery location, the lot number
shall be the property’s address.
         (a)   An EVEN NUMBERED ADDRESS means an address ending in the numbers
0, 2 ,4, 6 or 8 or the letters B, D, F, H, J, L, N, P, R, T, V, X or Z.
         (b)   An ODD NUMBERED ADDRESS means an address ending in the numbers
1, 3, 5, 7 or 9 or the letters A, C, E, G, I, K, M, O, Q, S, U, W or Y.
   LANDSCAPE IRRIGATION.
      (1)   The outside watering of plants in a landscape, such as shrubbery,
trees, lawns, grass, ground covers, plants, vines, gardens and other such flora
that are situated in such diverse locations as residential areas; public,
commercial and industrial establishments; and public medians and rights-of-way.
      (2)   LANDSCAPE IRRIGATION does not include the watering of agricultural
crops, nursery plants and vegetation associated with intensive recreational
areas such as public playgrounds, football, baseball and soccer fields.
   LANDSCAPE IRRIGATION PROJECT. The application of new grass seed or the
addition of new sod to a yard or section of yard. Each separate section of the
yard (e.g., front yard and back yard) is considered one LANDSCAPE IRRIGATION
PROJECT if a project is completed by sections.
   NONRESIDENTIAL LANDSCAPE IRRIGATION. The irrigation of landscape not
included within the definition of RESIDENTIAL LANDSCAPE IRRIGATION, such as
that associated with public, commercial and industrial property, including
commercial or transient housing units, hotel and motel units and public medians
and rights-of-way.
   PERSON. Any person, firm, partnership, association, corporation, company,
business or organization of any kind.
   RESIDENTIAL LANDSCAPE IRRIGATION. The irrigation of landscape associated
with any housing unit having sanitary and kitchen facilities designed to
accommodate one or more residents, including multiple housing units and common
areas associated with mobile home parks and subdivision (HOA) common areas.
(Ord. 07-2022, passed 5-25-2022)
§ 52.03 DECLARATION OF EXTREME WATER CONSERVATION SITUATION.
   (A)   (1)   In case of an emergency water shortage or potential emergency
(i.e., extreme persistent drought, large fire or water system issue), the Town
Manager or Board of Trustees may declare that an “extreme” water conservation
situation (condition red) shall apply in the town.
      (2)   Any declaration of an emergency water shortage situation by the
Town Manager shall expire in 14 days unless extended by resolution of the Board
of Trustees.
   (B)   Upon declaration of extreme water conservation situation (condition
red), the town shall notify its water customers by one or more of the following
means:
      (1)   Post the declaration at Town Hall;
      (2)   Post the declaration on the town’s website and Facebook page; or
      (3)   Send text or email to those who the town has contact information.
   (C)   During an extreme water conservation situation, the water restrictions
set forth in §
52.05 apply.
(Ord. 07-2022, passed 5-25-2022)
§ 52.04 LANDSCAPE IRRIGATION SCHEDULE.
   (A)   Landscape irrigation schedule. Landscape irrigation shall occur only
in accordance with the following schedule.
      (1)   Properties bearing even-numbered street addresses shall water only
on Tuesday, Thursday and Saturday.
      (2)   Properties bearing odd-numbered street addresses shall water only
on Monday, Wednesday and Friday.
      (3)   No residential watering is allowed on Sunday.
      (4)   (a)   No outdoor watering shall occur between the hours of 9:00
a.m. and 6:00 p.m. on any given day.
         (b)   The exception to this rule may be granted for the watering of
public parks, public ball fields or school-owned ball fields.
      (5)   Watering of flowers and gardens is permitted on non-watering days
if done by hand or ground soaker hoses for a maximum of ten minutes per day.
   (B)   Exception to the landscape irrigation schedule. Landscape irrigation
shall be subject to the following irrigation schedule exceptions.
      (1)   (a)   Irrigation of new landscape is allowed with a permit provided
by the Town Hall, at any time of day on any day for the initial 30 days.
         (b)   The permit may be extended by the Town Manager, or the Manager’s
designee, to every other day for the next 30 days for a total of one 60-day
period per landscape irrigation project; provided that the irrigation is
limited to the minimum amount necessary for such landscape establishment.
      (2)   Irrigation systems may be operated at any time of day on any day
for maintenance and repair purposes not to exceed five minutes per hour per
zone.
      (3)   Limited “spot” irrigation using a handheld hose equipped with an
automatic shut-off nozzle is allowed prior to 9:00 a.m. and after 6:00 p.m. on
no-watering days.
      (4)   Discharge of water from a water-to-air air-conditioning unit
(evaporative/swamp cooler) or other water-dependent cooling system is not
limited.
      (5)   The town may water its public parks and the school district may
water its athletic fields at any given time and on any given day.
(Ord. 07-2022, passed 5-25-2022) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.05 EXTREME WATER CONSERVATION SCHEDULE.
   (A)   The extreme conservation watering situation schedule applies in case
of an emergency water shortage or potential emergency (i.e., extreme persistent
drought, large fire or water system issue).
   (B)   During a declared extreme conservation watering situation, the
following watering restrictions shall apply to all customers using water
provided by the town.
      (1)   Watering of lawns is prohibited. Watering of flowers and gardens is
permitted if done by hand (watering can or hose with automatic shutoff only)
for a maximum of five minutes per day.
      (2)   Washing of personal vehicles, vehicle fleets and vehicles in auto
dealerships is prohibited.
      (3)   Temporary permits for new lawns will be revoked.
      (4)   Watering of school ball fields is prohibited.
      (5)   Limited watering of town-owned public parks is allowed to provide a
space for the public to recreate.
      (6)   If extreme conservation watering situation conditions persist, the
town may adopt additional restrictions on domestic, commercial and industrial
use of water.
(Ord. 07-2022, passed 5-25-2022) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.06 ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Any person who purchases and installs an automatic landscape
irrigation system must properly install, maintain and operate technology that
inhibits or interrupts operation of the system during periods of sufficient
moisture.
   (B)   Any person who purchases and installs an automatic landscape
irrigation system must properly install a backflow prevention device as
pursuant to town ordinances.
(Ord. 07-2022, passed 5-25-2022) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.07 WASTING OF WATER PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Wasting of water is prohibited, and all consumers shall prevent
unnecessary waste of water and keep all water outlets closed when not in actual
use.
   (B)   Wasting of water shall include, but not be limited to, the following
uses:
      (1)   Failing to repair a controllable leak, including a broken sprinkler
head, leaking valve or leaking faucet;
      (2)   Operating a permanently installed irrigation system with a broken
head, a head that is out of adjustment and spraying more than 10% of the spray
on a street or parking lot or that is misting;
      (3)   During irrigation:
         (a)   Watering of landscaping in a single irrigation zone at a rate
and/or quantity that allows water to accumulate on the surface of the ground
and then runoff into the public right-of-way in a steady stream for an
unreasonable period of time; or
         (b)   Allowing water to spray or overflow onto sidewalks, driveways,
streets, drainages or any hard surface.
      (4)   Allowing a hose to be left running on the ground when washing a
vehicle.
   (C)   Hose bibs, hydrants, toilets, bathtubs and other openings must not be
left running for any purpose other than the use for which they were intended.
(Ord. 07-2022, passed 5-25-2022) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.08 ENFORCEMENT OFFICIALS.
   (A)   Law enforcement officials having jurisdiction in the area governed by
this chapter are hereby authorized to enforce the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   In addition, the Town Manager may also delegate enforcement
responsibility for this chapter to other departments or personnel of the town
government.
(Ord. 07-2022, passed 5-25-2022)
§ 52.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter may be punished by
a minimum fine of $250 and a maximum fine of $2,650, as shall be adjusted for
inflation from time to time pursuant to C.R.S. § 13-10-113. Each day that a
violation of this chapter occurs is a separate offense.
   (B)   (1)   Upon a third and each subsequent conviction for such an offense,
and in addition to such fine, the town may discontinue water service to the
property served, or the town may install a flow restriction device, at the
expense of the customer, upon the service line to the property served to limit
water service to that necessary for health and sanitary purposes only.
      (2)   At least ten days’ notice and an opportunity to be heard before the
Town Manager shall be given prior to each discontinuance or restriction of
water service pursuant to this chapter.
(Ord. 07-2022, passed 5-25-2022)
CHAPTER 53: BACKFLOW AND CROSS-CONNECTIONS
Section
   
53.01   Authority
   
53.02   Applicability
   
53.03   Definitions
   
53.04   Requirements
   
53.05   Inspection, testing and repair
   
53.06   Reporting and recordkeeping
   
53.07   Right of entry
   
53.08   Compliance
 
   
53.99   Penalty
§ 53.01 AUTHORITY.
   (A)   The authority to implement this program is contained in the following
statute, legislation and regulations and acts:
      (1)   C.R.S. Title 25, Article 1-114 and Article 1-114.1;
      (2)   Section 39 of 5 C.F.R. 1002-11, Colorado Primary Drinking Water
Regulations; and
      (3)   Colorado Plumbing Code, being incorporated by reference at 3 C.F.R.
§ 720-1.2.
   (B)   The town shall have the authority to survey all service connections
within the distribution system to determine if the connection is a cross-
connection.
   (C)   The public water system shall have the authority to control all
service connections within the distribution system if the connection is a
cross-connection.
   (D)   The town may control any service connections within the distribution
system in lieu of a survey as long as the service connection is controlled with
an air gap or reduced pressure zone backflow prevention assembly.
   (E)   The town may collect fees for the administration of this program.
   (F)   The town shall maintain records of cross-connection surveys and the
installation, testing and repair of all backflow prevention assemblies
installed for containment and containment by isolation purposes.
   (G)   Except as otherwise provided herein, the town shall administer,
implement and enforce the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 04-2016, passed 1-13-2016)
§ 53.02 APPLICABILITY.
   This chapter applies to all commercial, industrial and multi-family
residential service connections within the public water system and to any
persons outside the town who are, by contract or agreement with the town, users
of the public water system. This chapter does not apply to single-family
residential service connections unless the public water system becomes aware of
a cross-connection at the single-family connection.
(Ord. 04-2016, passed 1-13-2016)
§ 53.03 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACTIVE DATE. The first day that a backflow prevention assembly or backflow
prevention method is used to control a cross-connection in each calendar year.
   AIR GAP. A physical separation between the free flowing discharge end of a
potable water supply pipeline and an open or non-pressure receiving vessel
installed in accordance with standard ASME A112.1.2.
   BACKFLOW. The undesirable reversal of flow of water or mixtures of water and
other liquids, gases or other substances into the public water systems
distribution system from any source or sources other than its intended source.
   BACKFLOW CONTAMINATION EVENT. Backflow into a public water system from an
uncontrolled cross-connection such that the water quality no longer meets the
Colorado Primary Drinking Water Regulations, being § 39 of 5 C.F.R. 1002-11, or
presents an immediate health and/or safety risk to the public.
   BACKFLOW PREVENTION ASSEMBLY. Any mechanical assembly installed at a water
service line or at a plumbing fixture to prevent a backflow contamination
event; provided that the mechanical assembly is appropriate for the identified
contaminant at the cross-connection and is an in-line field-testable assembly.
   BACKFLOW PREVENTION METHOD. Any method and/or non-testable device installed
at a water service line or at a plumbing fixture to prevent a backflow
contamination event; provided that the method or non-testable device is
appropriate for the identified contaminant at the cross-connection.
   CERTIFIED CROSS-CONNECTION CONTROL TECHNICIAN. A person who possesses a
valid backflow prevention assembly tester certification from one of the
following approved organizations: American Society of Sanitary Engineering
(ASSE) or the American Backflow Prevention Association (ABPA) and must have a
valid town contractor’s license and business license. If a certification has
expired, the certification is invalid.
   CONTAINMENT. The installation of a backflow prevention assembly or a
backflow prevention method at any connection to the public water system that
supplies an auxiliary water system, location, facility or area such that
backflow from a cross-connection into the public water system is prevented.
   CONTAINMENT BY ISOLATION. The installation of backflow prevention assemblies
or backflow prevention methods at all cross-connections identified within a
customer’s water system such that backflow from a cross-connection into the
public water system is prevented.
   CONTROLLED. Having a properly installed, maintained and tested or inspected
backflow prevention assembly or backflow prevention method that prevents
backflow through a cross-connection.
   CROSS-CONNECTION. Any connection that could allow any water, fluid or gas
such that the water quality could present an unacceptable health and/or safety
risk to the public, to flow from any pipe, plumbing fixture or a customer’s
water system into a public water system’s distribution system or any other part
of the public water system through backflow.
   MULTI-FAMILY. A single residential connection to the public water system’s
distribution system from which two or more separate dwelling units are supplied
water.
   SINGLE-FAMILY.
      (1)   A single dwelling which is occupied by a single family and is
supplied by a separate service line; or
      (2)   A single dwelling comprised of multiple living units where each
living unit is supplied by a separate service line.
   UNCONTROLLED. Not having a properly installed and maintained and tested or
inspected backflow prevention assembly or backflow prevention method, or the
backflow prevention assembly or backflow prevention method does not prevent
backflow through a cross-connection.
   WATER SUPPLY SYSTEM. A water distribution system, piping, connection
fittings, valves and appurtenances within a building, structure or premises.
WATER SUPPLY SYSTEMS are also referred to commonly as premises plumbing
systems.
(Ord. 04-2016, passed 1-13-2016)
§ 53.04 REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Commercial, industrial and multi-family service connections shall be
subject to a survey for cross-connections. If a cross-connection has been
identified, an appropriate backflow prevention assembly and/or method shall be
installed at the customer’s water service connection within 120 days of its
discovery. The assembly shall be installed downstream of the water meter or as
close to that location as deemed practical by the public water system. If the
assembly or method cannot be installed within 120 days, the town will take
action to control or remove the cross-connection, suspend service to the cross-
connection or receive an alternative compliance schedule from the State
Department of Public Health and Environment.
   (B)   (1)   In no case shall it be permissible to have connections or tees
between the meter and the containment backflow prevention assembly.
      (2)   In instances where a reduced pressure principle backflow preventer
cannot be installed, the owner must install approved backflow prevention
devices or methods at all cross-connections within the owner’s plumbing system.
   (C)   Backflow prevention assemblies and methods shall be installed in a
location which provides access for maintenance, testing and repair.
   (D)   Reduced pressure principle backflow preventers shall not be installed
in manner subject to flooding.
   (E)   Provisions shall be made to provide adequate drainage from the
discharge of water from reduced pressure principle backflow prevention
assemblies. Such discharge shall be conveyed in a manner which does not impact
waters of the state.
   (F)   All assemblies and devices shall be protected to prevent freezing.
Those assemblies and methods used for seasonal services may be removed in lieu
of being protected from freezing. The devices must be re-installed and then
tested by a certified cross-connection control technician prior to the service
being activated.
   (G)   Where a backflow prevention assembly or method is installed on a water
supply system using storage water heating equipment such that thermal expansion
causes an increase in pressure, a device for controlling pressure shall be
installed.
   (H)   All backflow prevention assemblies shall be tested at the time of
installation and on an annual schedule thereafter. Such tests must be conducted
by a certified cross-connection control technician whom is approved and
licensed by the town.
   (I)   The town will require inspection testing, maintenance and, as needed,
repairs and replacement of all backflow prevention assemblies and methods, and
of all required installations within the owner’s plumbing system in the cases
where containment assemblies and or methods cannot be installed.
   (J)   All costs for design, installation, maintenance, testing and as needed
repair and replacement are to be borne by the customer.
   (K)   No grandfather clauses exist except for fire sprinkler systems where
the installation of a backflow prevention assembly or method will compromise
the integrity of the fire sprinkler system.
   (L)   (1)   For new buildings, all building plans must be submitted to the
town and approved prior to the issuance of water service.
      (2)   Building plans must show:
         (a)   Water service type, size and location;
         (b)   Meter size and location;
         (c)   Backflow prevention assembly size, type and location; and
         (d)   Fire sprinkler system(s) service line, size and type of backflow
prevention assembly.
            1.   All fire sprinkling lines shall have a minimum protection of
an approved double check valve assembly for containment of the system.
            2.   All glycol (ethylene or propylene) or antifreeze systems shall
have an approved reduced pressure principle backflow preventer for containment.
            3.   Dry fire systems shall have an approved double check valve
assembly installed upstream of the air pressure valve.
            4.   In cases where the installation of a backflow prevention
assembly or method will compromise the integrity of the fire sprinkler system,
the public water system will not require the backflow protection. The public
water system will measure chlorine residual at the service connection once a
month and perform periodic bacteriological testing at the site. If the public
water system suspects water quality issues, the public water system will
evaluate the practicability of requiring that the fire sprinkler system be
flushed periodically.
(Ord. 04-2016, passed 1-13-2016) Penalty, see §
53.99
§ 53.05 INSPECTION, TESTING AND REPAIR.
   (A)   (1)   Backflow prevention devices or methods shall be tested by a
certified cross-connection control technician upon installation and tested at
least annually thereafter. The tests shall be made at the expense of the
customer.
      (2)   (a)   Any backflow prevention devices or methods that are non-
testable shall be inspected at least once annually by a certified cross-
connection control technician.
         (b)   The inspections shall be made at the expense of the customer.
   (B)   As necessary, backflow prevention devices shall be repaired and
retested or replaced and tested at the expense of the customer whenever the
devices are found to be defective.
   (C)   Testing gauges shall be tested and calibrated for accuracy at least
once annually.
(Ord. 04-2016, passed 1-13-2016) Penalty, see §
53.99
§ 53.06 REPORTING AND RECORDKEEPING.
   (A)   Copies of records of test reports, repairs and retests or replacements
shall be kept by the customer for a minimum of three years.
   (B)   Copies of records of test reports, repairs and retests shall be
submitted to the public water system by mail, facsimile or e-mail by the
testing company or testing technician.
   (C)   Information on test reports shall include, but may not be limited to:
      (1)   Assembly or method type;
      (2)   Assembly or method location;
      (3)   Assembly make, model and serial number;
      (4)   Assembly size;
      (5)   Test date;
      (6)   Test results, including all results that would justify a pass or
fail outcome;
      (7)   Certified cross-connection control technician certification agency;
      (8)   Technician’s certification number;
      (9)   Technician’s certification expiration date;
      (10)   Test kit manufacturer, model and serial number; and
      (11)   Test kit calibration date.
(Ord. 04-2016, passed 1-13-2016)
§ 53.07 RIGHT OF ENTRY.
   (A)   A properly credentialed representative of the public water system
shall have the right of entry to survey any and all buildings and premises for
the presence of cross-connections for possible contamination risk to and for
determining compliance with this section.
   (B)   This right of entry shall be a condition of water service in order to
protect the health, safety and welfare of customers throughout the public water
system’s distribution system.
(Ord. 04-2016, passed 1-13-2016)
§ 53.08 COMPLIANCE.
   (A)   Customers shall cooperate with the installation, inspection, testing,
maintenance and, as needed, repair and replacement of backflow prevention
assemblies and with the survey process. For any identified uncontrolled cross-
connections, the town will complete one of the following actions within 120
days of its discovery:
      (1)   Control the cross-connection;
      (2)   Remove the cross-connection;
      (3)   Suspend water service to the cross-connection; and
      (4)   Suspend water service to the property
   (B)   (1)   The town shall give notice in writing to any owner whose
plumbing system has been found to present a risk to the public water system’s
distribution system through an uncontrolled cross-connection. The notice and
order shall state that the owner must install a backflow prevention assembly or
method at each service connection to the owner’s premises to contain the water
service.
      (2)   The notice and order will give a date by which the owner must
comply with the order.
         (a)   In instances where a backflow prevention assembly or method
cannot be installed, the owner must install approved backflow prevention
devices or methods at all cross-connections within the owner’s water supply
system. The notice and order will give a date by which the owner must comply
with the order.
         (b)   In the event water service is suspended, the owner will be
responsible for paying any cost and fees associated with recommencing water
service in accordance with town’s water policies and rules.
(Ord. 04-2016, passed 1-13-2016)
§ 53.99 PENALTY.
   Any person convicted of violating any of the provisions of this chapter
shall be punished by a fine of not less than $150 and not more than $2,650, as
shall be adjusted for inflation from time to time pursuant to C.R.S. § 13-10-
113. Each act or omission in violation of one or more of the provisions of this
chapter shall be deemed a separate violation for each and every day that such
act(s) or omission(s) occur.
(Ord. 04-2016, passed 1-13-2016)
CHAPTER 54: SEWERS
Section
   
54.01   Definitions
   
54.02   Connection with sanitary sewer required; exception; use of private
sewage disposal system
   
54.03   Permit required to make connection with and use of sewer system
   
54.04   Discharge of nonacceptable wastes into sewer; prohibited pretreatment
of wastes
   
54.05   Use of grease, oil and sand interceptors
   
54.06   Control manhole required for inspection of industrial wastes
   
54.07   Abandonment of connections
   
54.08   Interference with town employees prohibited; digging up streets for
purposes of sewer connections
   
54.09   Deposit of unsanitary wastes on property prohibited
   
54.10   Deposit of untreated industrial waste into natural outlets prohibited
   
54.11   Damaging, tampering with sewers prohibited
   
54.12   Rates and charges for use of sewers - generally
   
54.13   Rates and charges for use of sewers - billing; payment
   
54.14   Delinquencies; remedies
   
54.15   Responsibility of property owners
   
54.16   Discontinuance of sewer service in enforcement
   
54.17   Adoption of rules and regulations governing sewers
   
54.18   Accounts for sewer service
§ 54.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   NONACCEPTABLE WASTES. Includes the following wastes:
      (1)   Any liquid or vapor having a temperature higher than 150°F;
      (2)   Any water or waste having a five-day biological oxygen demand which
may contain more than 1,000 parts per million by weight as averaged during any
12-hour period;
      (3)   Any gasoline, benzene, naphtha, fuel oil or other flammable or
explosive liquid, solid or gas;
      (4)   Any garbage that has not been properly shredded;
      (5)   Any ashes, cinders, sand, mud straw, shavings, metal, glass, rags,
feathers, tar, plastics, wood, paunch manure, grit, brick, cement, onyx,
carbide or any other solid or viscous substance capable of obstruction of the
flow of the sewers or other interference with the proper operation of the
sewage works;
      (6)   Any water or waste having a pH lower than five and one-half or
higher than nine or having any other corrosive property capable of causing
damage or hazard to structures, equipment or personnel of the sewage works;
      (7)   Any water or waste containing a toxic or poisonous substance in
sufficient quantities to injure or interfere with sewage process, constituting
a hazard to humans or animals or creating any hazard in the receiving waters of
the sewage treatment plant;
      (8)   Any waters or wastes containing suspended solids of such character
or quantity that unusual attention or expense is required to handle such
materials at the sewage treatment plant; and
      (9)   Any noxious or malodorous gas or substance capable of creating a
public nuisance.
   SANITARY SEWAGE. The waste from water closets, urinals, lavatories, sinks,
bathtubs, showers, household laundries, cellar floor drains, bars, soda
fountains, cuspidors, refrigeration drips, drinking fountains and any other
water-borne waste not constituting an industrial waste.
(Ord. 4-91, passed 8-14-1991)
§ 54.02 CONNECTION WITH SANITARY SEWER REQUIRED; EXCEPTION; USE OF PRIVATE
SEWAGE DISPOSAL SYSTEM.
   (A)   Except where otherwise provided, no person shall maintain within the
town any privy, privy vault, septic tank, cesspool or other facility intended
for use for the disposal of sewage.
   (B)   (1)   Where a public sanitary sewer is not available within the town
or in any area under the jurisdiction of the town, the building sewer shall be
connected to a private sewage disposal system complying with the provisions and
recommendation of the State Department of Public Health.
      (2)   Such private sewage disposal system shall be constructed,
maintained and operated at all times in a sanitary manner.
   (C)   At such time as a public sanitary sewer becomes available to property
served by a private sewage disposal system, a direct connection shall be made
to the public sanitary sewer in accordance with the provisions of this chapter
and any septic tank, cesspool or similar private sewage disposal facilities
shall be abandoned and filled with suitable material.
(Ord. 4-91, passed 8-14-1991) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 54.03 PERMIT REQUIRED TO MAKE CONNECTION WITH AND USE OF SEWER SYSTEM.
   No unauthorized person shall uncover, make any connections with, open into,
use, alter or disturb any sanitary sewer or appurtenance thereof, without first
obtaining a written permit therefor.
(Ord. 4-91, passed 8-14-1991) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 54.04 DISCHARGE OF NONACCEPTABLE WASTES INTO SEWER; PROHIBITED PRETREATMENT
OF WASTES.
   The discharge of nonacceptable wastes into the town sewer system, whether
directly or indirectly, is prohibited, and where investigation reveals the
presence in the system of nonacceptable wastes emanating from any lot, land,
building or premises, the owner, lessor, renter or occupant of such lot, land,
building or premises shall be required, at his or her own expenses, to treat,
neutralize or in other ways prepare the noxious substance therein to the
satisfaction of the Board of Trustees, in order to convert the same into
acceptable wastes.
(Ord. 4-91, passed 8-14-1991) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 54.05 USE OF GREASE, OIL AND SAND INTERCEPTORS.
   (A)   (1)   Grease, oil and sand interceptors shall be provided when, in the
opinion of the Board of Trustees, they are necessary for the proper handling of
any liquid waste containing grease in excessive amounts or any flammable waste,
sand or other harmful ingredients, except that such interceptor shall not be
required for private living quarters or dwelling units.
      (2)   All interceptors shall be of a type and capacity approved by the
Town Manager, and shall be located as to be readily and easily accessible for
cleaning and inspection.
   (B)   (1)   When the Board of Trustees determines that a grease, oil or sand
interceptor is necessary, the Town Manager, or his or her designee, shall
personally serve a written notice and order on the owner or the occupant of the
real property at which the inceptor is required. The written notice and order
shall require that an interceptor be installed within 90 days. If diligent
efforts to serve the written notice and order personally are unsuccessful, it
shall be deemed sufficient notice if the written notice and order is mailed by
first class mail to the owner of the real property, as shown in the records of
the County Assessor, and the occupant at the real property address.
      (2)   If the notice and order are not complied with by the date set forth
therein, the town may:
         (a)   Institute the appropriate proceedings in law or in equity to
restrain, correct or abate such violation;
         (b)   Discontinue water service to the property served except that,
prior to the discontinuance of water service, at least ten days’ notice and an
opportunity to be heard before the Town Manager shall be given; and/or
         (c)   Issue a summons and complaint to the person alleged to be in
violation of this section and order such person to appear before the Town
Municipal Judge.
(Ord. 4-91, passed 8-14-1991; Ord. 2-10, passed - -2010)
§ 54.06 CONTROL MANHOLE REQUIRED FOR INSPECTION OF INDUSTRIAL WASTES.
   When required by the Board of Trustees, the owner of any property served by
a building sewer carrying industrial waste shall install a suitable control
manhole in the building sewer to facilitate observation and sampling of the
waste. Such manholes, when required, shall be accessible and safely located and
shall be constructed in accordance with the plans approved by the Town Manager.
The manholes shall be installed by the owner at his or her expense and shall be
maintained by him or her so as to be safe and accessible at all times.
(Ord. 4-91, passed 8-14-1991) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 54.07 ABANDONMENT OF CONNECTIONS.
   No person shall abandon any building connection without first obtaining a
written permit therefor. Such building connection shall be effectively sealed
with a proper stopper inserted in the bell of the sewer extending to the
property line which stopper shall be jointed as directed by the Town Manager.
(Ord. 4-91, passed 8-14-1991) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 54.08 INTERFERENCE WITH TOWN EMPLOYEES PROHIBITED; DIGGING UP STREETS FOR
PURPOSES OF SEWER CONNECTIONS.
   (A)   No person shall, in any way, interfere with employees of the town in
any discharge of their duties either in the tapping of any sewer pipe, main or
lateral.
   (B)   No person shall dig up or cause to be dug up any street or alley in
the town for the purpose of connecting with the sewer system of the town,
without first obtaining a permit, and no person having a permit shall dig up
any portion of any street or alley of the town for the purpose of connecting
with the sewer system of the town and fail or neglect to place the street or
alley in its original condition.
(Ord. 4-91, passed 8-14-1991) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 54.09 DEPOSIT OF UNSANITARY WASTES ON PROPERTY PROHIBITED.
   No person shall deposit, or permit to be deposited, in any unsanitary
manner, upon public or private property within the town or within any area
within the jurisdiction of the town any human or animal excrement wastes.
(Ord. 4-91, passed 8-14-1991) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 54.10 DEPOSIT OF UNTREATED INDUSTRIAL WASTE INTO NATURAL OUTLETS PROHIBITED.
   No person shall discharge into any natural outlet within the town, or any
area within the jurisdiction of the town, any sanitary sewer industrial waste
or other polluted waste, except where suitable treatment has been provided.
(Ord. 4-91, passed 8-14-1991) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 54.11 DAMAGING, TAMPERING WITH SEWERS PROHIBITED.
   No person shall maliciously, willfully or negligently break, damage or
destroy, uncover, deface or tamper with any structure, appurtenance or
equipment which is a part of the town’s sanitary sewer system.
(Ord. 4-91, passed 8-14-1991) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 54.12 RATES AND CHARGES FOR USE OF SEWERS - GENERALLY.
   (A)   (1)   There is hereby levied and charged on each lot, parcel of land
and premises served by or having sewer connection with the sanitary sewer
system of the town or otherwise discharging sanitary sewage, industrial wastes,
water or other liquids, either directly or indirectly, into the town’s sanitary
sewer system, a sewer service charge or rental which shall be payable as and in
an amount established by the Board of Trustees from time to time.
      (2)   From time to time, the Board of Trustees shall also determine and
establish rates and charges for tap fees, disconnection fees, reconnection fees
and reasonable penalties for any delinquencies, including, but not limited to,
interest from any date due at a rate not exceeding 1% per month or a fraction
thereof, reasonable attorney’s fees and other costs of collection. Over and
above the rates and charges established by this section, there may be
established, in special instances and by special agreement between the town and
the owner of any premises served by the town’s sewer system, such additional
charges for commercial or industrial wastes of unusual strength or composition
that are accepted by the town for treatment as may be determined to be fair and
equitable. Each such special agreement and charges established therefor shall
not become effective until ratified by resolution passed by the Board of
Trustees.
   (B)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to prevent any special
agreement or arrangement between the town and other municipalities, quasi-
municipalities, sanitation districts, additions and development areas outside
the town concerning sewage facilities, which shall not become effective until
ratified by resolution passed by the Board of Trustees; provided that the rates
established by such agreement or arrangement shall not be less than one and
one-half times the rate for the same class of users within the town.
(Ord. 4-91, passed 8-14-1991; Ord. 7-03, passed 4-23-2003)
§ 54.13 RATES AND CHARGES FOR USE OF SEWERS - BILLING; PAYMENT.
   The sewer charges levied pursuant to this chapter shall be payable monthly
and shall be added to and made a part of the monthly water bill of the various
properties within the town. Properties outside the town shall pay monthly and
in advance, or as provided by agreement, and if the same are not paid within
ten days thereafter, a penalty of 5% of such charge shall be added to such
bill.
(Ord. 4-91, passed 8-14-1991)
§ 54.14 DELINQUENCIES; REMEDIES.
   (A)   If any charge imposed pursuant to this chapter is not paid by the date
due, the town may avail itself of any or any combination of the following
remedies, in addition to any other available remedies:
      (1)   The town may foreclose the lien imposed by this chapter in
accordance with law;
      (2)   The town may maintain an action in any court of competent
jurisdiction for the amount of the charge due and any interest, costs and
attorney’s fees as allowed by law;
      (3)   The town may certify the amount of the charge due to the County
Clerk and Treasurer, together with all delinquency fees, including the
delinquency certification fee, to become an assessment upon the property served
and to be collected and paid over to the town in the same manner as taxes; and
      (4)   The town may discontinue water service in the following manner.
         (a)   1.   All town water bills shall contain a notice regarding
service termination for nonpayment, which notice shall advise that, once a bill
becomes delinquent, the town will send a notice of termination of service that
shall give a date by which payment must be received or service may be
disconnected, which date shall be no sooner than ten days after the date the
disconnection notice is mailed.
            2.   The disconnection notice shall further advise that if the
occupant or record owner does not believe reasonable cause exists for the
proposed termination of service, a written request for a conference with the
Town Manager may be filed prior to termination of service. At such conference,
the sole issue to be determined shall be whether the delinquency in fact exists
and the amount of the delinquency.
         (b)   If a discontinuation notice is sent pursuant to this section, a
late fee shall be charged to the record owner.
   (B)   If payment of any charge imposed pursuant to this chapter is made by a
dishonored payment, a bad payment fee shall be imposed in addition to such
charge, and such charge shall be considered delinquent in the same manner as if
no payment had been made.
   (C)   (1)   The payment of any charge imposed pursuant to this chapter shall
be considered delinquent if not received in the offices of the town before the
close of business, pursuant to office hours as established from time to time,
on the last day specified for payment.
      (2)   A delinquency fee shall be charged for any charges not timely paid
in accordance with this chapter.
   (D)   If water service is discontinued as provided in this section, water
service shall not be reinstated to the property until all fees and charges
imposed pursuant to this chapter have been paid in full.
   (E)   Prior to disconnection for nonpayment, town staff is authorized to
enter into payment plans with water customers who have past-due balances, with
terms and conditions to be approved by the Town Manager.
§ 54.15 RESPONSIBILITY OF PROPERTY OWNERS.
   The owners of real property shall, for the purposes of this chapter, be
considered the users of the sewers and sewer system provided by the town for
their property and, together with the occupant, lessee or tenant of such
property, shall be held jointly and severally liable and responsible for the
payment of any charges accruing for such sewer charges, and their real property
may be subjected to the collections and procedures therefor provided in this
chapter.
(Ord. 4-91, passed 8-14-1991)
§ 54.16 DISCONTINUANCE OF SEWER SERVICE IN ENFORCEMENT.
   The town may, without notice, discontinue the sanitary sewer service to any
premises discharging nonacceptable wastes into the sanitary sewer system.
(Ord. 4-91, passed 8-14-1991)
§ 54.17 ADOPTION OF RULES AND REGULATIONS GOVERNING SEWERS.
   The Board of Trustees shall make and enforce such rules and regulations as
it may deem necessary for the safe, efficient and economical management of the
town’s sewer system. Such rules and regulations, when not repugnant to this
chapter or any other ordinances of the town and laws of the state, shall have
the same force and effect as ordinances of the town.
(Ord. 4-91, passed 8-14-1991)
§ 54.18 ACCOUNTS FOR SEWER SERVICE.
   All accounts for sewer service shall be kept in the name of the owner of the
property unless the property owner provides his or her written consent that the
account be kept in the name of the tenant in possession of the premises.
Placing the account in the name of the tenant shall not diminish the
responsibility of the owner for such sewer charges.
(Ord. 01-14, passed 1-8-2014)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
71.   RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
CHAPTER 70: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
Model Traffic Code
   
70.01   Adoption
   
70.02   Amendments and deletions
   
70.03   Applicability
   
70.04   Interpretation
   
70.05   Penalty assessment; point reduction
   
70.06   Violations; traffic infractions
   
70.07   Violations; traffic offenses
Overweight/Oversize Vehicles
   
70.20   Weight limits on roadways; exceptions
   
70.21   Parking on oversize vehicles; exceptions
 
   
70.99   Penalty
MODEL TRAFFIC CODE
§ 70.01 ADOPTION.
   (A)   Pursuant to Parts 1 and 2 of Article 16 of Title 31, C.R.S., there is
hereby adopted by reference the 2024 edition of the Model Traffic Code for
Colorado promulgated and published by the Colorado Department of
Transportation, Traffic Safety and Engineering Services, 2829 W Howard Place,
Denver, CO 80204.
   (B)   The subject matter of the Model Traffic Code relates primarily to
comprehensive traffic control regulations for the town. The purpose of this
chapter and the Model Traffic Code adopted herein is to provide a system of
traffic regulations consistent with state law and generally conforming to
similar regulations throughout the state and the nation. Copies of the Model
Traffic Code adopted herein are on file in the office of the Town Clerk, and
may be inspected during regular business hours.
(Ord. 06-2021, passed 3-24-2021; Ord. 02-2025, passed 3-12-2025)
§ 70.02 AMENDMENTS AND DELETIONS.
   The Model Traffic Code, 2024 Edition, is hereby amended as follows: Section
1701 is deleted.
(Ord. 06-2021, passed 3-24-2021; Ord. 02-2025, passed 3-12-2025)
§ 70.03 APPLICABILITY.
   This chapter and the Model Traffic Code adopted herein shall apply to every
street, alley, sidewalk area, driveway, park and to every other public way or
public place or public parking area, either within or outside the corporate
limits of the town, the use of which the town has jurisdiction and authority to
regulate. The provisions of Model Traffic Code §§ 1401 (reckless driving), 1402
(careless driving) and 1413 (eluding a police officer) shall apply not only to
public places and ways but shall also apply throughout the town.
(Ord. 06-2021, passed 3-24-2021)
§ 70.04 INTERPRETATION.
   This chapter and the Model Traffic Code adopted herein shall be so
interpreted and construed as to effectuate its general purpose to conform to
the state’s uniform system for the regulation of vehicles and traffic. Section
headings of this chapter or the Model Traffic Code adopted herein shall not be
deemed to govern, limit, modify or in any manner affect the scope, meaning or
extent of the provisions of any article or section thereof.
(Ord. 06-2021, passed 3-24-2021)
§ 70.05 PENALTY ASSESSMENT; POINT REDUCTION.
   If a person receives notice of a penalty assessment for a violation and such
person pays the fine and surcharge for such violation on or before the payment
is due as set forth in the penalty assessment, the points assessed for the
violation will be reduced as follows:
   (A)   For a violation having an assessment of four points: points are
reduced by two points; and
   (B)   For a violation having an assessment of three points: points are
reduced by two points.
(Ord. 06-2021, passed 3-24-2021)
§ 70.06 VIOLATIONS; TRAFFIC INFRACTIONS.
   (A)   (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person to violate any of the
provisions of this chapter and the Model Traffic Code as adopted herein. Except
as set forth in §
70.07, violations of the Model Traffic Code are hereby deemed non-criminal
traffic infractions.
      (2)   A traffic infraction shall be a civil matter for which punishment
by imprisonment shall not be available, for which a penalty assessment notice
may be issued and for which is punishable by a maximum fine of $500.
   (B)   For any violation of any provision of this chapter and the Model
Traffic Code as adopted hereby which is a traffic infraction, no trial by jury
shall be available, no arrest warrant shall issue for failure to appear or to
pay, no privilege of self-incrimination shall apply, the standard of proof
shall be a preponderance of the evidence and the conduct of all proceedings
applicable to such a violation shall otherwise be in conformity with those
generally applicable to civil matters.
   (C)   The Municipal Court shall, in addition to any other notice, by
published order to be prominently posted in a place where fines are to be paid,
specify by suitable schedules the amount of fines to be imposed for violations,
designating each violation specifically in the schedules. Such fines will be
within the limits set by ordinance.
   (D)   For any violation of any provision of this chapter and the Model
Traffic Code as adopted herein which is a traffic infraction, the Municipal
Court may enter a judgment of liability by default against the defendant for
failure to appear or to pay, and may assess such penalties, together with such
court costs and surcharges, as are established by law.
(Ord. 06-2021, passed 3-24-2021)
§ 70.07 VIOLATIONS; TRAFFIC OFFENSES.
   The violation of the following sections of the Model Traffic Code, as
adopted herein, shall constitute a criminal traffic offense and shall be
punishable by a fine not exceeding $2,650, as shall be adjusted for inflation
from time to time pursuant to C.R.S. § 13-10-113, or by imprisonment of not
more than 364 days, or by both such fine and imprisonment:
   (A)   Section 607 of the Model Traffic Code, interference with official
devices;
   (B)   Section 705 of the Model Traffic Code, operation on approach of
emergency vehicles;
   (C)   Section 1101 of the Model Traffic Code, where the speed as driven is
24 mph or more over the lawful speed limit;
   (D)   Section 1105 of the Model Traffic Code, speed contest;
   (E)   Section 1401 of the Model Traffic Code, reckless driving;
   (F)   Section 1402(2) of the Model Traffic Code, careless driving, if the
person’s actions are the proximate cause of bodily injury or death to another;
   (G)   Section 1409 of the Model Traffic Code, compulsory insurance;
   (H)   Section 1413 of the Model Traffic Code, eluding or attempting to elude
a police officer;
   (I)   Section 1703 of the Model Traffic Code, parties to a crime; and
   (J)   Section 1903 of the Model Traffic Code, stopping for school buses.
(Ord. 06-2021, passed 3-24-2021)
OVERWEIGHT/OVERSIZE VEHICLES
§ 70.20 WEIGHT LIMITS ON ROADWAYS; EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   No person shall drive, operate or move any vehicle with a weight in
excess of 10,000 pounds and more than two axles at any time upon any town
street, alley, right-of-way or parts thereof, except on truck routes designated
by the Town Manager and approved by the Board of Trustees from time to time.
Truck routes shall be designated by signs placed on such streets.
   (B)   The terms and provisions of this section shall not apply to emergency
vehicles, vehicles making deliveries or pick-ups in the normal course of
business, school buses on a regular route, vehicles patronizing businesses
accessible only via the restricted roadways, utility and maintenance vehicles
engaged in utility upgrades or restoration or road maintenance on the
restricted roadway, recreational vehicles and vehicles operated by the state,
town or other political subdivision.
(Ord. 04-2015, passed 4-22-2015)
§ 70.21 PARKING ON OVERSIZE VEHICLES; EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to park any vehicle with a weight
in excess of 10,000 pounds, that has a commercial license plate and with more
than two axles on the streets in any R-1 or R-2 Residential District, Mobile
Home Park District (MHPD) or Conservation District (CON) within the town.
   (B)   (1)   The terms and provisions of this section shall not apply to
vehicles being expeditiously used to render pick-up and delivery services,
loading and unloading or for construction services to property located within
200 feet of where the vehicle is parked.
      (2)   No such vehicle under this division (B) shall be parked in any R-
1 or R-2 Residential District, Mobile Home Park District (MHPD) or Conservation
District (CON) for a period exceeding 24 hours.
(Ord. 04-2015, passed 4-22-2015)
§ 70.99 PENALTY.
   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no specific
penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
CHAPTER 71: RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
Section
Golf Carts
   
71.01   Definitions
   
71.02   Operation of golf carts authorized
   
71.03   Restrictions on the operation of golf carts
   
71.04   Operation within the roadway
   
71.05   Registration
 
   
71.99   Penalty
GOLF CARTS
§ 71.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   GOLF CART. A self-propelled vehicle not designed primarily for operation on
roadways that has:
      (1)   A design speed of less than 20 mph;
      (2)   At least three wheels in contact with the ground;
      (3)   An empty weight of not more than 1,300 pounds; and
      (4)   A carrying capacity of not more than four persons.
   ROADWAY. The portion of the public way that is improved, designed or
ordinarily used for vehicular travel, exclusive of the sidewalk, berm, shoulder
and any portion of a public way designated for exclusive use by bicycles or
pedestrians. However, ROADWAY, for purposes of this subchapter, shall not
include state highways.
(Ord. 6-11, passed 5-11-2011)
§ 71.02 OPERATION OF GOLF CARTS AUTHORIZED.
   Subject to the provisions of this subchapter, and except as prohibited
herein, the operation of golf carts on roadways within the town’s corporate
limits shall be permitted.
(Ord. 6-11, passed 5-11-2011) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.03 RESTRICTIONS ON THE OPERATION OF GOLF CARTS.
   Notwithstanding the authorization set forth in §
71.02, the following restrictions shall apply to the operation of golf carts
within the town.
   (A)   No golf cart shall be operated by any person under the age of 16
years.
   (B)   No golf cart shall be operated by any person unless such person has
been legally issued and possesses a currently valid driver’s license.
   (C)   (1)   Golf carts shall only be operated on town roadways with a speed
limit equal to or less than 40 mph.
      (2)   A golf cart may be operated to directly cross a roadway that has a
speed limit greater than 40 mph at an at-grade crossing in order to continue
traveling along a roadway with a speed limit equal to or less than 40 mph.
   (D)   No golf cart shall be operated on any state highway.
   (E)   No golf cart shall be operated upon any sidewalk or pedestrian trail.
   (F)   The number of persons allowed to travel in a golf cart shall be
limited to the number of seats in the golf cart, in accordance with the design
of the golf cart, but in no event shall there be more than four persons in the
golf cart.
   (G)   Every child passenger in a golf cart shall be secured in a child
restraint device as required by state law for children riding as passengers in
a motor vehicle.
   (H)   Every golf cart operator shall possess insurance consistent with motor
vehicle insurance limits required by state law, as amended from time to time.
   (I)   No golf cart shall be operated between sunset and sunrise or at any
other time when, due to insufficient light or unfavorable atmospheric
conditions, persons and vehicles on the roadway are not clearly discernible at
a distance of 1,000 feet ahead, unless such golf cart is equipped and
illuminated with head lamps, tail lamps and turn signals as required under the
Model Traffic Code for Colorado.
   (J)   The operator of a golf cart shall obey all parking and traffic
regulations that are applicable to motor vehicles and that have been adopted by
the town.
   (K)   Every golf cart operated on any town roadway shall, at all times,
display a slow moving vehicle emblem or a reflective flag projecting at least
12 inches from the top of the golf cart.
(Ord. 6-11, passed 5-11-2011) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.04 OPERATION WITHIN THE ROADWAY.
   Golf carts shall be operated as close to the right side of the roadway as
practicable, exercising due care when approaching, overtaking or passing a
standing vehicle or one proceeding in the same direction, or when approaching,
overtaking or passing a pedestrian or bicyclist.
(Ord. 6-11, passed 5-11-2011) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.05 REGISTRATION.
   (A)   No golf cart shall be operated on any town roadway without first being
registered with the Police Department on such form and with such information as
shall be determined by the Chief of Police.
   (B)   Upon registration, the golf cart shall have affixed as evidence of the
registration stickers on the front and rear of the golf cart. Such registration
shall be reviewed annually in the same month in which first registered. The
registration fee shall be $10 and may be adjusted in the future by a resolution
of the Board of Trustees.
(Ord. 6-11, passed 5-11-2011) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person to violate §§
71.01 through
71.05. A violation of §§
71.01 through
71.05 is hereby deemed a non-criminal traffic infraction. A traffic infraction
shall be a civil matter for which punishment by imprisonment shall not be
available, for which a penalty assessment notice may be issued and for which is
punishable by a maximum fine of $999.
      (2)   For any violation of §§
71.01 through
71.05, no trial by jury shall be available, no arrest warrant shall issue for
failure to appear or to pay, no privilege of self-incrimination shall apply,
the standard of proof shall be a preponderance of the evidence and the conduct
of all proceedings applicable to such a violation shall otherwise be in
conformity with those generally applicable to civil matters.
      (3)   For any violation of §§
71.01 through
71.05, the court may enter a judgment of liability by default against the
defendant for failure to appear or to pay, and may assess such penalties,
together with such court costs and surcharges, as are established by law.
      (4)   Upon a third violation of §§
71.01 through
71.05 within 12 consecutive months, the registration for that golf cart shall
be revoked for a period of 12 months and shall not be reinstated until court
costs have been paid and a reinstatement fee of $10 has been paid, which such
reinstatement fee may be adjusted in the future by a resolution of the Board of
Trustees.
(Ord. 6-11, passed 5-11-2011; Ord. 02-2019, passed 3-27-2019)
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   ANIMALS
      
91.   HEALTH AND SAFETY; NUISANCES
      
92.   ABANDONED AND JUNK VEHICLES
      
93.   STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
      
94.   FIRE PREVENTION
      
95.   ALARM SYSTEMS
CHAPTER 90: ANIMALS
Section
General Provisions
   
90.01   Definitions
   
90.02   License and registration required
   
90.03   Animal type/number restrictions
   
90.04   Enforcement
   
90.05   Interference/hindering animal control
   
90.06   Apprehension and impoundment
Care and Keeping of Animals
   
90.20   Nuisance; noise
   
90.21   Animals at large
   
90.22   Leash law
   
90.23   Improper care of animals
   
90.24   Cruelty to animals - neglect of animals
   
90.25   Poisoning animals prohibited; traps
   
90.26   Ownership of dangerous dogs
   
90.27   Unlawful ownership of vicious dogs
   
90.28   Quarantine
   
90.29   Immediate destruction of animal - authorized
   
90.30   Court order for release
   
90.31   Court order to destroy vicious dog
Pet Waste
   
90.45   Purpose
   
90.46   Definitions
   
90.47   Requirements for disposal
   
90.48   Exemptions
   
90.49   Enforcement
 
   
90.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 90.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABANDON. The leaving of an animal without adequate provisions for the
animal’s proper care by its owner.
   ANIMALS. Every non-human species of the animal kingdom, both domestic and
non-domestic.
   BODILY INJURY. Any physical injury that results in severe bruising; muscle
tears; skin lacerations requiring professional medical treatment, corrective or
cosmetic surgery.
   CAT. Any animal of the species Felis domesticus.
   DANGEROUS DOG.
      (1)   Any dog which, because of its aggressive nature, training or
characteristic behavior, is capable of inflicting serious physical harm or
death to humans, and which would constitute a danger to human life or property
if it were not kept in the manner required by this chapter.
      (2)   Any dog which, when unprovoked, chases or approaches a person in a
menacing fashion or apparent attitude of attack on public or private property,
whether or not the attack is consummated or capable of being consummated.
   DOG. Any animal related to the fox, wolf, coyote or jackal.
   DOMESTIC ANIMAL. Any dog, cat, pot-belly pig, rabbit, hare, guinea pig,
hamster, mouse, rat, ferret, bird, fish, reptile, amphibian or other small
species of animal kept as a pet.
   LIVESTOCK. Any chickens, duck, geese or other domestic fowl, hogs, pigs
(except pot-belly pigs), swine, sheep, goats, cattle, horses, mules, llamas or
other animals raised or kept for profit or production.
   MISTREATMENT. Every act or omission which causes, or unreasonably permits
the continuation of, unnecessary or unjustifiable pain or suffering by an
animal.
   NEGLECT. Failure to provide food, water, protection from the elements or
other care generally considered to be normal, usual and accepted for an
animal’s health and well-being consistent with the species, breed and type of
animal.
   OWNER. Any person, firm, corporation or organization owning, possessing,
harboring, keeping, having a financial or property interest in or having
control or custody of an animal.
   RUNNING AT LARGE. An animal off or away from the premises of the owner
thereof, and not under the control of such owner or an agent, or representative
of same, either by leash, cord or chain not more than ten feet in length.
   VICIOUS DOG. Any dog with a propensity, tendency or disposition to attack
unprovoked, to cause injury to or otherwise threaten the safety of human beings
or domestic animals; or any dog, which without provocation, attacks or bites,
or has attacked or bitten, a human being or domestic animal; or any dog owned
or harbored primarily, or in part, for the purpose of dog fighting, or any dog
trained for dog fighting, or any dog which has been found to be vicious by the
Town Municipal Court, or by any court within the state, in a trial or hearing
upon a charge of harboring a vicious animal.
   WILDLIFE. Any animal that exists in a natural wild state in their place of
origin, presently or historically, except those species determined to be
domestic animals or livestock by this chapter.
(Ord. 3-07, passed 12-12-2007)
§ 90.02 LICENSE AND REGISTRATION REQUIRED.
   (A)   (1)   All dogs and cats within the town shall be licensed and
registered each calendar year and shall bear a license tag issued by the Town
Clerk.
      (2)   There shall be a license fee paid to the Town Clerk as set from
time to time by the Board of Trustees.
      (3)   License tags shall not be transferable from one dog or cat to
another, and the license fee shall be nonrefundable.
   (B)   Before a license tag is issued by the Town Clerk, the owner of the dog
or cat shall provide written evidence that the dog or cat has been vaccinated
by a licensed veterinarian with an anti-rabies vaccine some time within the
two-year period preceding the expiration date of the license and registration
to be issued.
(Ord. 3-07, passed 12-12-2007; Ord. 10-08, passed 12-10-2008) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.03 ANIMAL TYPE/NUMBER RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   Except as hereinafter provided, no person shall keep any livestock,
including, but not limited to, swine, cattle horses, mules, sheep or goats,
turkeys, geese or other farm animals or beasts of burden of any kind, or any
nondomesticated animals of any kind or nature within the corporate limits of
the town.
   (B)   The provisions of this section shall not be applicable to:
      (1)   Domestic animals: not to exceed three dogs of more than four months
of age or more than one litter of pups less than four months of age per
household. Not to exceed four cats of more than four months of age or more than
one litter of kittens less than four months of age per household. Not to exceed
any combination of dogs and cats more than five animals total. Not to exceed
one pot-belly pig per household;
      (2)   Rabbits: not to exceed 25 per household;
      (3)   Chickens: not to exceed 25 per household;
      (4)   Pot-bellied pigs: it shall be unlawful for any person to keep,
pasture, house, maintain or harbor a pot-bellied pig within the town unless the
owner registers said animal with the Town Clerk, who shall issue a license to
the owner. The fee for said license shall be the same as the fee for a dog
license as established from time to time. No person shall engage in the
commercial business of breeding, buying, selling, trading, training or boarding
pot-bellied pigs. Male pot-bellied pigs shall be castrated prior to the age of
four months and female pot-bellied pigs shall be spayed prior to the age of
four months;
      (5)   Those animals allowed by provisions of Chapter 153; and
      (6)   (a)   1.   The Board of Trustees may allow exceptions to the
provisions of this section, pursuant to a Board of Trustees resolution, upon a
finding that the proposed use will not be detrimental to the surrounding
properties and inhabitants.
            2.   In determining whether the proposed use will be detrimental,
the Board of Trustees shall consider the following criteria:
               a.   The size of the property on which the animals will be
located;
               b.   The date on which such property was annexed to the town;
               c.   How any nuisance effects will be controlled;
               d.   The surrounding land uses; and
               e.   How the animals will be contained on the property.
         (b)   1.   A resolution pursuant to this division (B)(6)(b) may impose
modifications or conditions to the extent such modifications or conditions are
necessary to ensure compliance with this division (B)(6).
            2.   Conditions may address, by way of illustration and not
limitation, nuisance control, fencing requirements and time limits on the
proposed exception. The Board may by resolution establish specific open area,
setback and other locational requirements for any exception.
         (c)   All chicken and rabbit pens shall be kept in a clean and
sanitary condition.
(Ord. 3-07, passed 12-12-2007; Ord. 6-08, passed 9-10-2008) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.04 ENFORCEMENT.
   Any certified law enforcement officer, animal control officer or other
person authorized by the Town Manager (each an “authorized officer”) may carry
out the provisions of this chapter.
§ 90.05 INTERFERENCE/HINDERING ANIMAL CONTROL.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to interfere with, hinder or prevent any
authorized person under this chapter in the discharge of his or her duties.
(Ord. 3-07, passed 12-12-2007) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.06 APPREHENSION AND IMPOUNDMENT.
   (A)   (1)   An authorized officer may apprehend unlicensed dogs, pigs or
animals at large.
      (2)   The Town Police Department shall, whenever possible, see that such
animals are transferred to a designated kennel at the earliest possible date,
where the animals may be taken care of and reclaimed by the owner under the
rules and regulations of the kennel.
      (3)   When an animal is impounded by the town before being transferred to
a kennel, the owner reclaiming the animal shall be required to pay a recovery
fee in the amount of $75 to the town to cover costs incurred by the town in
apprehending and impounding the animal.
   (B)   (1)   It shall be the duty of the Town Police Department and such
other persons, as from time to time may be designated by resolution of the
Board of Trustees, to apprehend any dangerous dogs running at large.
      (2)   Any dangerous dog found running at large shall be impounded and may
be returned to its owner only upon proof of registration as a dangerous dog.
      (3)   When an animal is impounded by the town before being transferred to
a kennel, the owner reclaiming the animal shall be required to pay a recovery
fee to the town in an amount set by resolution of the Board of Trustees to
cover costs incurred by the town in apprehending and impounding the animal.
   (C)   (1)   In any event, when a dog is impounded, the impounding authority
shall give notice to the owners of the impoundment and advise the owners
whether and under what circumstances the dog may be redeemed.
      (2)   The owner of any animal impounded, confined or destroyed pursuant
to the terms of this chapter shall be responsible for all costs of confinement,
impoundment or destruction.
(Ord. 3-07, passed 12-12-2007)
CARE AND KEEPING OF ANIMALS
§ 90.20 NUISANCE; NOISE.
   (A)   Every nuisance caused by any pet or animal shall be restrained,
prevented, abated and perpetually enjoined. Any owner of any animal in the town
has the affirmative duty to prevent that animal from becoming a public
nuisance.
   (B)   Any dog who barks, yelps, howls or growls in a continuous or
repetitive fashion which disturbs the peaceful and quiet enjoyment of other
residents in the town shall be deemed a public nuisance and in violation of
this section.
   (C)   Any other animal that whines, fights, howls, yelps, cries, clucks,
crows, growls or makes any other noise in a continuous or repetitive fashion
which disturbs the peaceful and quiet enjoyment of other residents in the town
shall be deemed a public nuisance and in violation of this section.
(Ord. 3-07, passed 12-12-2007) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.21 ANIMALS AT LARGE.
   Any animal permitted within the town by this chapter shall be controlled by
its owner and shall be prohibited from running at large.
(Ord. 3-07, passed 12-12-2007) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.22 LEASH LAW.
   Except when enclosed within the property of the owner by a fence that does
in fact confine the animal to the owner’s property, an owner shall control the
animal by kennel, carrier or by leash, cord or chain, not more than ten feet in
length.
(Ord. 3-07, passed 12-12-2007) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.23 IMPROPER CARE OF ANIMALS.
   No person shall fail to provide an animal that it owns or that is otherwise
within its care with necessary sustenance and shelter, or keep such animal
under conditions where its enclosure is not overcrowded, unclean or unhealthy.
   (A)   An animal is deprived of necessary sustenance if it is not provided
proper food or drink.
   (B)   An enclosure is overcrowded unless its area is at least the square of
the following sum for each animal confined therein: twice the sum of the length
of the animal in inches (tip of nose to base of tail) plus six inches.
   (C)   An enclosure is unclean when it contains more than one day’s
elimination of each animal enclosed therein.
   (D)   An enclosure is unhealthy when it is likely to cause illness of the
animal.
(Ord. 3-07, passed 12-12-2007) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.24 CRUELTY TO ANIMALS - NEGLECT OF ANIMALS.
   (A)   No person shall overdrive, overload, overwork, torture, torment,
cruelly beat, needlessly mutilate, needlessly shoot at, wound, capture or kill
any animal.
   (B)   Any person that carries or confines an animal in or upon any vehicle
in a cruel or reckless manner, uses or allows such animal in fights between
animals, or causes, arranges or sponsors such fights, or otherwise mistreats or
neglects any animal, or causes or procures it to be done, or having the charge
or custody of any animal, fails to provide it with proper food, drink or
protection from the weather, resulting in the injury, illness or death of such
animal commits a violation of this section.
   (C)   Any person who intentionally abandons an animal commits the offense of
cruelty to animals.
(Ord. 3-07, passed 12-12-2007) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.25 POISONING ANIMALS PROHIBITED; TRAPS.
   No person shall poison, or distribute poison, in any manner with the intent
to poison any animal. It is a specific defense to a charge of violating this
section that the person intended to poison mice, rats or rodents by the use of
a poisonous substance approved for such use by the U.S. Environmental
Protection Agency or that the person regularly engaged in the business of
fumigation or pest extermination and was so licensed by the state.
(Ord. 3-07, passed 12-12-2007) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.26 OWNERSHIP OF DANGEROUS DOGS.
   (A)   (1)   Any person having knowledge which he or she believes constitutes
probable cause to believe that another is harboring, keeping or maintaining a
dangerous dog, which is not registered with and licensed by the town in
accordance with this chapter, shall file with the Town Police Department a
sworn affidavit setting forth the basis on which it believes the animal to be a
dangerous dog, the name and address of the owner of the dog and a description
of the dog. The Police Department shall, upon receipt of such affidavit,
inquire of the Town Clerk if the dog is currently registered as a dangerous dog
pursuant to the provisions of this chapter.
      (2)   If the dog is not registered, the Town Clerk shall notify the Town
Police Department of this fact and the Town Police Department shall serve
notice upon the owner of the alleged dangerous dog. The notice shall include
the requirement that the owner shall bring the alleged dangerous dog to the
veterinarian stated in the aforementioned notice for inspection to determine
whether this dog is a dangerous dog by definition as set forth in §
90.01.
   (B)   (1)   Registration of dangerous dogs.
         (a)   All owners of dangerous dogs, on or before January 1, 2004, and
annually thereafter on or before April 15 of each year, register their dogs and
provide a current color photograph of the dog with the Town Clerk’s office and
pay a registration fee of $100. At the time of registration, each owner of any
dangerous dog kept within the town limits shall provide the Town Clerk’s office
with proof of liability insurance in the amount of at least $100,000 for any
acts of property damage or liability incurred by virtue of injury inflicted by
such dog. Such insurance shall name the town as co-insured solely for the
purpose of notice of cancellation for the policy. Upon payment of the fee, the
Town Clerk shall issue a current dangerous dog collar of an approved color for
the purpose of identification, and which collar is to be worn by the dog at all
times as proof of registration. If, when due to the length of the dog’s hair,
the collar is not visible, an approved colored leash or chain shall be used.
         (b)   An owner of a dangerous dog who fails to register the dog is
subject to a forfeiture of not less than $100 nor more than $250 per day.
         (c)   An owner of a dangerous dog who registers but neglects to have
the dangerous dog collar worn by the dog at all times is subject to a
forfeiture of not less than $25 nor more than $100 per day.
         (d)   A dangerous dog collar may be removed from a dangerous dog for
grooming or purposes of other care when the dog is secured indoors or in an
approved pen.
      (2)   Requirements of keeping dangerous dogs.
         (a)   While on the owner’s property, a dangerous dog must be securely
confined indoors or in a securely enclosed and locked pen or structure,
suitable to prevent the entry of young children, and designed to prevent the
animal from escaping. Such pen or structure must have a minimum dimension of
five feet by ten feet and must have secure sides and a secure top. If it has no
bottom secured to the sides, the sides must be imbedded into the ground no less
than two feet. The enclosure must also provide protection from the elements for
the dog.
         (b)   The owner or keeper shall display a sign on his or her premises
facing out from all sides of the premises warning that there is a dangerous dog
on the property. This sign should be visible and capable of being read from a
public highway or thoroughfare or within 20 feet of its placement. In addition,
the owner shall conspicuously display a sign with a symbol warning children who
cannot read of the presence of a dangerous dog.
         (c)   1.   A dangerous dog may be off the owner’s premises if it is
muzzled and restrained by an approved lead or chain not exceeding three feet in
length and is under the control of an adult, able-bodied person.
            2.   The muzzle must be made in a manner that will not cause injury
to the dog or interfere with its vision or respiration, but must prevent it
from biting any person or animal.
         (d)   The provisions of this chapter regarding dangerous and vicious
animals shall not apply to animals owned by law enforcement agencies and used
for law enforcement purposes.
(Ord. 3-07, passed 12-12-2007) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.27 UNLAWFUL OWNERSHIP OF VICIOUS DOGS.
   (A)   No person shall own within the town any vicious dog.
   (B)   It shall be an affirmative defense to a charge of unlawful ownership
of a vicious dog that the injury or damage was sustained by a person who, at
the time, was teasing, tormenting, abusing or assaulting the dog, or which dog
was protecting a human from being attacked by another animal or by a human
being.
   (C)   (1)   Whenever any person is charged with unlawful ownership of a
vicious dog, as defined in this chapter, that person shall, to the satisfaction
of the court, remove the dog from the town until the trial of the citation.
      (2)   If the owner fails to remove the dog within 48 hours of the service
of the citation, the Town Police Department shall impound the dog until the
trial on the citation. If the dog is determined by plea or trial to be a
vicious dog provided by this chapter, it shall not be returned to or kept in
the town.
      (3)   Any dog returned to or kept in the town after being determined to
be a vicious dog constitutes a public nuisance as pursuant to the ordinances of
the town.
(Ord. 3-07, passed 12-12-2007) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.28 QUARANTINE.
   (A)   A dog which is known to have bitten or injured any person, so as to
cause an abrasion of the skin, or a dog which, in the opinion of a member of
law enforcement or any of the persons legally authorized to inoculate and
register animals, appears to be inflicted with rabies shall be closely confined
by its owner, in accordance with the direction of a member of law enforcement,
or otherwise impounded at the direction of law enforcement for a period of not
less than ten days.
   (B)   (1)   If the owner of a dog referred to in division (A) above cannot
be determined or located, then a member of law enforcement shall otherwise
confine such dog for a period of not less than ten days.
      (2)   If the owner of such dog is not determined, located or such dog
claimed from confinement within ten days, then the Chief of Police may order
such dog destroyed; provided, however, that all costs incurred for the
confinement of a dog under this division (B) shall be paid for by the owner of
such dog.
      (3)   If, however, after ten days of confinement, the dog is not claimed
or the owner thereof determined or located, then the cost of confinement shall
be borne by the town.
(Ord. 3-07, passed 12-12-2007) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.29 IMMEDIATE DESTRUCTION OF ANIMAL - AUTHORIZED.
   Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to prevent the animal warden or
agent or any law enforcement officer from taking whatever action is reasonably
necessary to protect his or her person or members of the public from injury or
damage, including immediate destruction of any vicious animal without notice to
the owner.
(Ord. 3-07, passed 12-12-2007)
§ 90.30 COURT ORDER FOR RELEASE.
   (A)   If a complaint has been filed in the Town Municipal Court against the
owner of an impounded animal for a charge under this chapter, the animal shall
not be released except on the order of the Municipal Judge, who may also direct
the owner to pay all impound fees in addition to any penalties for any
violation of this chapter.
   (B)   Any animal, which remains unclaimed for five days after its release
has been authorized by the Municipal Judge, may be disposed of at the
discretion of the animal shelter.
(Ord. 3-07, passed 12-12-2007)
§ 90.31 COURT ORDER TO DESTROY VICIOUS DOG.
   (A)   (1)   Whenever a determination has been made that any vicious dog is
owned or kept as provided in this chapter, the Town Clerk, Chief of Police or
Town Attorney may apply to the Municipal Court for an order to destroy the dog.
      (2)   Such application shall:
         (a)   Identify the dog;
         (b)   Identify the owner, if known, or the residence of the dog if the
owner is not known;
         (c)   Identify the date and location of occurrence of one or more acts
of viciousness; and
         (d)   Request that the owner be required to show cause why the dog
should not be impounded and destroyed.
   (B)   Upon receipt of such application, the court shall set a date for a
hearing thereon, and cause to be served on the owner, if known, and, if not
known, delivered to or posted on the residence of the dog, a copy of the
application and a notice of the hearing.
   (C)   (1)   If the town demonstrates at the hearing that the dog was vicious
within the meaning of this chapter, the judge may order the dog impounded and
destroyed or may make such other order as in the judge’s discretion will
provide adequate safety to persons or other animals.
      (2)   Before making such order, the judge may request any report at his
or her discretion concerning the appropriate disposition of the dog.
   (D)   Any trial for any offense under this chapter shall also constitute a
hearing under this chapter and upon a showing sufficient to support a finding
of viciousness under this chapter, the judge may make orders authorized by this
chapter.
(Ord. 3-07, passed 12-12-2007)
PET WASTE
§ 90.45 PURPOSE.
   This subchapter establishes requirements for the proper disposal of pet
solid waste in the town, so as to protect public health, safety and welfare and
to prescribe penalties for failure to comply.
(Ord. 22-2016, passed 11-9-2016)
§ 90.46 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   (B)   When not inconsistent with the context, words used in the present
tense include the future, words used in the plural number include the singular
number and words used in the singular number include the plural number. The
word “shall” is always mandatory and not merely directory.
      IMMEDIATE. The pet solid waste is removed at once, without delay.
      OWNER/KEEPER. Any person who shall possess, maintain, house or harbor any
pet or otherwise have custody of any pet, whether or not the owner of such pet.
      PERSON. Any individual, corporation, company, partnership, firm,
association or political subdivision of this state subject to municipal
jurisdiction.
      PET. A domesticated animal (other than a disability assistance animal)
kept for amusement or
companionship.
      PET SOLID WASTE. Waste matter expelled from the bowels of the pet;
excrement.
      PROPER DISPOSAL. Placement in a designated waste receptacle, or other
suitable container, and discarded in a refuse container which is regularly
emptied by the municipality or some other refuse collector; or disposal into a
system designed to convey domestic sewage for proper treatment and disposal.
(Ord. 22-2016, passed 11-9-2016)
§ 90.47 REQUIREMENTS FOR DISPOSAL.
   All pet owners and keepers are required to immediately and properly dispose
of their pet’s solid waste deposited on any property, public or private, not
owned or possessed by that person.
(Ord. 22-2016, passed 11-9-2016) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.48 EXEMPTIONS.
   Any owner or keeper who requires the use of a disability assistance animal
shall be exempt from the provisions of this section while such animal is being
used for that purpose and the owner has a medical order for use of a disability
assistance animal.
(Ord. 22-2016, passed 11-9-2016)
§ 90.49 ENFORCEMENT.
   The provisions of this section shall be enforced by the Town Police
Department.
(Ord. 22-2016, passed 11-9-2016)
§ 90.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person convicted of a violation of this chapter shall be punished
as provided in §
10.99 of this code.
   (B)   In addition to the foregoing penalties, any person who violates this
chapter shall pay all expenses, including shelter, food, handling, veterinary
care and expert testimony fees necessitated by enforcement of this chapter.
CHAPTER 91: HEALTH AND SAFETY; NUISANCES
Section
Nuisances and Abatement
   
91.001   Definitions
   
91.002   Declaration of nuisances
   
91.003   Abatement process
   
91.004   Emergency abatement
   
91.005   Inspections
Trash, Junk and Debris
   
91.020   Definitions
   
91.021   Nuisance declared
   
91.022   Prohibited accumulations designated
Landscape Materials
   
91.035   Definitions
   
91.036   Nuisance declared
Dangerous Building or Structures
   
91.050   Definitions
   
91.051   Nuisance declared
   
91.052   Posting of property and restriction of access
   
91.053   Action required; notice
   
91.054   Repair, vacation and demolition
   
91.055   Emergency enforcement
Weeds and Vegetation
   
91.070   Definitions
   
91.071   Nuisance declared
   
91.072   Prohibited accumulations designated
 
   
91.999   Penalty
NUISANCES AND ABATEMENT
§ 91.001 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUILDING OFFICIAL. The Town Manager, or his or her designee.
   PERSON. A natural person, association, corporation, partnership, limited
liability company and any other legal entity capable of owning, using or
occupying real property.
   PUBLIC PLACE. Any street, highway, public right-of-way, sidewalk, driveway
or alley, school building, school grounds, public building, library, fire
station, public park or any parking lot.
   RESPONSIBLE PARTY. Any person who makes or causes any nuisance to exist, or
who has possession or control of any real property or premises, whether as
owner, occupant or tenant, where any nuisance is found, or, in the case of a
motor vehicle, as owner or operator of the same.
(Ord. 01-2021, passed 1-27-2021)
§ 91.002 DECLARATION OF NUISANCES.
   (A)   Common law and statutory nuisances. Any nuisance defined or declared
as such by state statute or case law (common law) is hereby declared a nuisance
for purposes of this chapter. It shall be unlawful for any person to create any
common law or statutory nuisance in the town or to permit a common law or
statutory nuisance to occur or continue to occur on any property under such
person’s control. Further, it is unlawful for any person to permit a common law
or statutory nuisance to occur in conjunction with any personal property under
such person’s control.
   (B)   Specified nuisances. Any act, action, condition, situation,
circumstance or state of being identified in this subchapter as prohibited or
unlawful is hereby declared a nuisance.
(Ord. 01-2021, passed 1-27-2021) Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.003 ABATEMENT PROCESS.
   (A)   Whenever the Police Chief, a police officer, code enforcement officer
or another employee authorized by the Town Manager (referenced, collectively
hereafter, as authorized officers) determines that a nuisance exists on or in
any lot, building or premises, under any part of this title, the authorized
officer may give notice in the manner prescribed in divisions (B) and (C)
below.
   (B)   Such notice prescribed in division (A) above shall:
      (1)   Be in writing;
      (2)   Include a description of the property sufficient for
identification;
      (3)   Include a statement of the violation or violations and why the
notice is issued;
      (4)   Include a correction order allowing at least 14 days to make the
repairs and improvements required to abate the nuisance;
      (5)   Inform the property owner of the right to appeal pursuant to
division (G) below; and
      (6)   Include a statement of the town’s right to abate the nuisance and
file a lien in accordance with this section.
   (C)   (1)   The authorized official shall promptly post a copy of the notice
in a visible location on the property.
      (2)   Besides such posting, the authorized official shall, if
practicable, provide a copy of the notice to the property owner by one or more
of the following methods:
         (a)   By personal delivery to the owner or an occupant of the subject
property who is over 18 years of age;
         (b)   By U.S. mail or other commercial mail service to any address for
the owner appearing in the County Tax Assessor’s records, for real property;
         (c)   By U.S. mail or other commercial mail service to any address for
the owner appearing in the State Department of Revenue or other official title
or registration records, for other property; and
         (d)   By any other means reasonably calculated to provide notice.
   (D)   (1)   It shall be the duty of the owner, occupant or agent of any lot,
building or premises, in or upon which any nuisance may be found, to abate the
same in such manner as the officer serving such notice prescribes, within the
time specified in the abatement notice and correction order.
      (2)   Timely filing of an appeal from the abatement notice and correction
order under this section shall extend the time for abatement until a final
ruling on that appeal. In addition to any other available sanction or relief,
if such owner, occupant or agent neglects or refuses to comply with the
requirements of such order within the time specified, he or she commits a
violation of this chapter, punishable according to §
91.999.
   (E)   Upon the expiration of the time for abatement specified in such
notice, and including any extension for appeal, as provided above, the
authorized officer may cause abatement of such nuisance and payment of the
abatement expense by the person so refusing or neglecting.
   (F)   The authorized officer shall certify to the Town Clerk, as a proposed
charge and lien against the subject property, the cost, plus a 20%
administrative service charge, of any such action taken pursuant to such court
action or pursuant to this chapter.
   (G)   Notice of assessment; appeal of charges.
      (1)   Upon receipt of the statement of charges, the Town Clerk shall mail
to the owner of record of the subject property a notice, stating the amount and
grounds for the charges; that the town proposes to assess the charges against
the property; and that any objections to the proposed assessment must be made
in writing and filed with the Town Clerk within 14 days from the date of
receipt of such notice. Upon the expiration of the 14-day period, if the Town
Clerk receives no appeal, the Town Clerk shall, pursuant to C.R.S. § 31-20-105,
certify such charges to the office of the County Treasurer that includes the
property, for collection in the same manner as taxes, as authorized by C.R.S.
Title 31.
      (2)   If the property owner files an appeal with the Town Clerk before
the expiration of the 14-day period, the Town Clerk shall refer the matter to a
hearing officer appointed by the Town Clerk for determination.
      (3)   (a)   Upon conclusion of administrative review, the hearing officer
shall determine, in writing, whether the charges are proper. The town shall
have the burden of proof, by a preponderance of the evidence.
         (b)   According to that determination, the hearing officer shall
affirm, cancel or reduce the charges. The hearing officer shall furnish a copy
of this determination to the person making the objections together with a
notice of such person’s right to appeal to the District Court.
      (4)   The hearing officer, on appeal, may reduce or cancel a proposed
assessment if it is determined that any of the following did not conform to the
provisions of this chapter:
         (a)   Any required notice to correct the subject violations;
         (b)   The work performed in abating the nuisance; or
         (c)   The computation of charges.
      (5)   Upon a final determination by the hearing officer affirming or
reducing the charges, the hearing officer shall certify a copy of the
determination to the Town Clerk, who shall certify such charges to the office
of the Treasurer of the county, as provided above.
      (6)   The Town Clerk may delegate to employees of the town any of the
functions this section vests in the Town Clerk.
   (H)   Assessments against property for abatement costs under this section
shall not apply to the town’s expenses where other parts of this chapter
expressly provide specific alternate processes for assessment or collection of
those abatement costs.
   (I)   (1)   In addition to the penal remedy and abatement procedure stated
in this section, any violation of this subchapter is a public nuisance, for
which there is no adequate remedy at law, and therefore, any court of competent
jurisdiction shall, upon the Town Attorney’s proven application, enjoin a
nuisance, as defined in this chapter.
      (2)   (a)   Nothing in this chapter shall prevent the Town Attorney from
seeking other appropriate legal or equitable relief from any court of competent
jurisdiction. In addition, the owner of any property constituting a nuisance
shall be liable to the town, jointly and severally with every person creating
or maintaining the nuisance, for the town’s reasonable expense of abating the
nuisance and the Town Attorney may commence and prosecute to final judgment an
action at law in any court of competent jurisdiction to collect those expenses.
         (b)   As used in this section, court of competent jurisdiction
includes, without limitation, the Town Municipal Court, which, insofar as
practicable, shall consider and determine applications for legal or equitable
relief according to the procedures otherwise applicable to proceedings in State
District Courts.
(Ord. 01-2021, passed 1-27-2021; Ord. 08-2022, passed 5-25-2022)
§ 91.004 EMERGENCY ABATEMENT.
   (A)   Whenever an authorized officer finds that a nuisance exists under this
chapter that places the public health, or safety or welfare in immediate
danger, the officer may issue an emergency correction order, which shall comply
with §
91.003, except that the emergency correction order shall:
      (1)   Allow a time less than 14 days, as is reasonable in the
circumstances, to abate the nuisance;
      (2)   State that, if the nuisance remains unabated at the end of the
reasonable time given, the authorized officer will cause abatement of the
nuisance according to §
91.003(E); and
      (3)   State that, due to the emergency need for abatement, a timely
appeal, according to §
91.003(G), may be heard after abatement.
   (B)   Timely filing of an appeal from the emergency correction order shall
not extend the time for abatement.
   (C)   If the nuisance remains unabated at the end of the reasonable time
given, the authorized officer shall cause abatement of the nuisance according
to §
91.003(E).
   (D)   If the hearing officer, upon a timely and proper appeal, finds the
correction order justified, but the time given for correction unreasonably
short, in the circumstances, he or she may determine the amount the appellant
would have reasonably incurred to abate the nuisance himself or herself, if
given a reasonable time, and that amount shall be the most the authorized
officer shall certify and the most the town shall recover, as a charge and lien
against the property.
   (E)   If the hearing officer, upon a timely and proper appeal, finds the
correction order unjustified, the authorized officer shall not certify, and the
town shall not recover, abatement costs as a charge or lien against the
property, and the town shall pay to the owner the reasonable amount of any
damages caused by the town’s abatement under the unjustified correction order,
but not more than the fair market value of the property before the town’s
abatement activities.
(Ord. 01-2021, passed 1-27-2021)
§ 91.005 INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   Entry.
      (1)   Whenever necessary to make an inspection to enforce any provision
of this chapter, or whenever there is probable cause to believe that there
exists a violation of this chapter in any building or upon any premises within
the jurisdiction of the town, any public inspector of the town may, upon
presentation of proper credentials and upon obtaining permission of the
occupant or if unoccupied, the owner, enter such building or premises at all
reasonable times to inspect the same or to perform any duty imposed upon him or
her by ordinance.
      (2)   In the event the occupant, or if unoccupied, the owner, refuses
entry to such building or premises, or the public inspector is unable to obtain
permission of such occupant or owner to enter such building or premises, the
public inspector is empowered to seek assistance from any court of competent
jurisdiction in obtaining such entry.
   (B)   Authority to enter premises under emergency. Law enforcement officers
certified with the state, members of the Fire Department, other fire
departments operating under a mutual assistance agreement or automatic aid
agreement with the town, certified emergency medical technicians and paramedics
during the course of employment with a governmental agency are hereby granted
the authority to enter private residences within the town without invitation
from the occupant of the residence at any time such person has reasonable
grounds to believe a medical emergency is in progress within the subject
premises and the occupant of such premises is incapable of consenting to the
entry because of such medical emergency.
(Ord. 01-2021, passed 1-27-2021)
TRASH, JUNK AND DEBRIS
§ 91.020 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABUTTING LAND. A parcel of land which has a common property line with
another parcel of land.
   ALLEY.
      (1)   A minor way which is used primarily for vehicular service access to
the rear or side of properties otherwise abutting on the street.
      (2)   Its use is for secondary access to the lot and/or service purposes.
An ALLEY shall not be considered to be a street.
   COMMERCIAL/BUSINESS. Includes all kinds of vocations, occupations, home
occupations, professions, enterprises and establishments, any of which are
conducted on any premises or are otherwise carried on within the town or
anywhere else within its jurisdiction.
   GARBAGE. Wastes resulting from the handling, preparation, cooking or
consumption of food and wastes from the handling, storage or sale of produce.
   HOUSEHOLD TRASH. Includes, but is not limited to, items such as rubbish,
trash, waste, refuse, paper, tin cans, bottles, glass, containers, rags, ashes,
bones, cloth or other materials common to household use or objects that may
become a breeding place for flies, mosquitoes or vermin, or that give off
unpleasant odors.
   JUNK or DEBRIS. Any material or object, used or new, that is not presently
useable or designed to be used in their existing condition or location, such as
scrap metals, rubber pieces, rope, asphalt, concrete, plaster, tile, bricks,
crates, cartons, barrels, boxes, tree limbs, leaves, dead plants and trees,
trimmings from plants and trees, grass clippings, tools, fixtures, utensils,
lumber, pipe and pipe fittings, machinery or parts thereof, appliances, vending
machines, furniture, motor vehicle parts, used motor vehicle liquids and
solutions, used tires or any waste material from the premises, including
building materials for, or produced from, remodeling or construction, and
material.
   STREET or HIGHWAY. The entire width between the boundary lines of every
right-of-way publicly maintained where any part thereof is open to the use of
the public for purposes of vehicular travel.
(Ord. 01-2021, passed 1-27-2021)
§ 91.021 NUISANCE DECLARED.
   It is unlawful for any person to:
   (A)   (1)   Permit household trash, garbage, junk or debris to accumulate on
any property. All trash, garbage, junk or debris shall be stored in a container
or sealed plastic trash bag awaiting prompt pickup and disposal, and the
storage area shall be kept free of loose trash, garbage, junk and debris.
      (2)   Any household trash, garbage, junk or debris that, by its nature,
is incapable of being stored in containers or sealed plastic bags may be neatly
stacked or stored for prompt pickup and disposal. Containers and trash bags
shall be secured and placed where they are not susceptible to being spilled by
animals or wind or other elements;
   (B)   (1)   Place or to permit to remain anywhere in the town any household
trash, garbage, junk or debris or other material subject to decay other than
leaves or grass, except in watertight and airtight cans or containers, which
neither creates an odor or stench or is accessible to animals.
      (2)   This division (B) shall not apply to vegetable materials in any
properly layered, actively working compost pile;
   (C)   Drive or move any loaded truck or other loaded vehicle within the
town, unless such vehicle is loaded or covered so as to prevent any load,
contents or litter from being blown or deposited upon any street, highway,
alley or other public place;
   (D)   Operate, or cause to be operated, on any highway or public way in the
town, any truck or vehicle transporting trash, junk and debris unless such
vehicle or truck is fitted with a substantial, tight box or other container
thereon so that no portion of such garbage, trash or junk shall be thrown or
fall upon the highway or public way;
   (E)   Display, or cause or allow to be displayed, upon the property any
nuisance, as defined in this subchapter;
   (F)   Keep or store any construction materials for construction at that
location unless such materials are for an active building permit on file at the
town office;
   (G)   Store upon his or her property or to allow to be viewed by the general
public, or any member thereof, goods, material or substances not otherwise or
specifically defined or definable as trash, garbage, junk and debris but which
goods, materials or substances are of a type, kind, quantity or description not
commonly associated with the zoning classification or permitted use of the
property;
   (H)   Use any trailer, whether covered or uncovered, to store any litter,
garbage, trash and junk upon his or her property; and
   (I)   Deposit in or on any street, alley or public place debris, sod, earth,
sand, gravel, concrete or any other household trash, junk, garbage, debris or
construction waste or material.
(Ord. 01-2021, passed 1-27-2021) Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.022 PROHIBITED ACCUMULATIONS DESIGNATED.
   It is unlawful for any owner, lessee, agent, occupant or person in
possession or control of any occupied or unoccupied lot or tract of land or any
part thereof in the town to permit or maintain on any such lot or tract of
land, or on or along the sidewalk, street or alley adjacent to the same, any
accumulation of garbage, household trash, junk and debris.
(Ord. 01-2021, passed 1-27-2021) Penalty, see §
91.999
LANDSCAPE MATERIALS
§ 91.035 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   LANDSCAPE MATERIAL. All elements typically used or present in a designed
landscape, including, but not limited to, brick, gravel, rock or stone,
concrete, timber, bitumen, glass, metals, sod, trees, bushes, mulch, fencing
materials and anything that may be used to landscape or to improve the property
landscaping.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY.
      (1)   A strip of land taken or dedicated for use as a public way.
      (2)   In addition to the roadway, it normally incorporates the curbs,
lawn strips, sidewalks, lighting and drainage facilities, and may include
special features (required by the topography or treatment) such as grade
separation, landscaped areas and bridges.
(Ord. 01-2021, passed 1-27-2021)
§ 91.036 NUISANCE DECLARED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to store, accumulate or keep, or allow
the accumulation, storage or keeping of, any landscape materials on a public
right-of-way except in accordance with the following provisions.
   (A)   Time limits. Landscape materials may be stored on a public right-of-
way for no more than three days while such materials are in being installed on
an adjacent property.
   (B)   Placement. If placed in a town right-of-way, landscape materials must
be stored on the right-of-way immediately adjacent to the property on which
they will be used and in such a manner as to minimize disruption to the owners
or occupants of adjacent property. Landscape materials shall not block access
to and from side streets, alleys, maintenance roads, walkways, neighbors’
driveways, sidewalks, bike paths, fire hydrants, fire stations, fire escapes,
mail boxes, dumpsters, parked vehicles, water valves, valve housing structures
or any other vital equipment.
   (C)   Erosion barrier. Landscape materials that can be eroded or moved by
the elements shall be completely covered by material that will protect them
from erosion or movement.
   (D)   Traffic hazard prohibited. Landscape materials stored in the public
right-of-way must be flagged, coned or otherwise marked in such a manner as to
alert a reasonable person to the presence of the materials and allow such
person to safely navigate around the materials.
(Ord. 01-2021, passed 1-27-2021; Ord. 08-2022, passed 5-25-2022) Penalty, see §
91.999
DANGEROUS BUILDING OR STRUCTURES
§ 91.050 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DANGEROUS BUILDING OR STRUCTURE.
      (1)   Is any fence, wall, shed, deck, house, garage, building, structure
or any part thereof that is so decayed, broken down, disintegrated, dilapidated
or poorly constructed as to constitute a fire or safety hazard to person and
property within its vicinity.
      (2)   A DANGEROUS BUILDING OR STRUCTURE is also defined as any structure
that:
         (a)   Subjects the public or any adjoining property to danger of
damage by storm, soil erosion or fire;
         (b)   Is occupied or infested by any rodent, skunk, termite,
cockroach, poisonous fungus, infectious bacteria or other life form or life
forms that are destructive, annoying, loathsome, illegal, offensive or
injurious to health;
         (c)   Has become a place frequented by trespassers or transients
seeking a temporary hideout or shelter;
         (d)   Is structurally unsafe;
         (e)   Is not provided with adequate means of egress;
         (f)   Is dangerous to human safety or life;
         (g)   Is used for any illegal activity or purpose;
         (h)   Constitutes an attractive nuisance; or
         (I)   Is any building or portion thereof which is determined, after
inspection by the building official of the town, to be dangerous pursuant to
the ordinances of the town.
   UNFIT FOR HUMAN OCCUPANCY. Any building or structure which is in such a
degree of disrepair, lack of maintenance, is unsanitary, vermin or rat
infested, contains filth and contamination or lacks ventilation, illumination,
sanitary or heating facilities or other essential equipment required by state
statute or town ordinance, or because of the location of the structure
constitutes a hazard to the occupants of the building or structure or to the
public.
(Ord. 01-2021, passed 1-27-2021)
§ 91.051 NUISANCE DECLARED.
   It is unlawful and hereby declared a public nuisance for any person or
agent, either as owner, lessee, tenant or occupant of any lot or land within
the town, to allow or maintain a dangerous building or structure.
(Ord. 01-2021, passed 1-27-2021) Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.052 POSTING OF PROPERTY AND RESTRICTION OF ACCESS.
   (A)   Posting.
      (1)   Upon finding that a building, structure or property constitutes a
dangerous building or structure, the building official is authorized to post
the property with a notice. The building official may also define the area of
danger and prohibit all persons from entering onto, occupying or inhabiting the
dangerous area.
      (2)   Notice must include at least the following:
         (a)   The building official, upon inspection, has determined the
building or structure to be dangerous and a hazard to the public health, safety
or welfare;
         (b)   The property is not to be entered upon or occupied by anyone
without specific authority of the building official; and
         (c)   Any person found to be occupying or otherwise upon the property
without authority will be subject to citation and arrest for trespass.
   (B)   Closing of vacant structures. If a dangerous building or structure is
vacant, the building official is authorized to order the property to be closed
up and secured so as not to be an attractive nuisance. Upon failure of the
owner or the owner’s agent to close up the property within the time specified
in the order, the town may cause the property to be closed and secured and the
cost thereof shall be charged as a lien against the property in accordance with
§
91.003.
   (C)   Violation of posting. Violation by any person of this posting and
access restriction will constitute trespass under the town’s ordinances.
(Ord. 01-2021, passed 1-27-2021) Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.053 ACTION REQUIRED; NOTICE.
   (A)   Corrective action required. If, as a result of an inspection, the
building official determines that there has been a violation of this chapter or
has grounds to believe that a violation has occurred, the building official may
require corrective action by repair, vacation and/or demolition.
   (B)   Notice.
      (1)   (a)   The building official shall issue a notice and order directed
to the record owner or owners of the building or structure.
         (b)   The notice shall be given in the manner prescribed in §§
91.003 or
91.004 in the case of an emergency.
      (2)   In addition to the content described in §§
91.003 and
91.004, the notice and order must contain a statement of the action required to
be taken as determined by the building official, which may include:
         (a)   Repair required. A statement advising that, if the building
official has determined that the building or structure must be repaired, that
all required permits will be secured and the work physically commenced within
such time (not to exceed 90 days from the date of the order) and completed
within such time as the building official will determine reasonable under all
of the circumstances;
         (b)   Vacation required. A statement advising that, if the building
official has determined that the building or structure must be vacated, that
the building or structure will be vacated within a time certain from the date
of the order as determined by the building official to be reasonable; and
         (c)   Demolition required. A statement advising that if the building
official has determined that the building or structure must be demolished, the
building must be vacated within such time as the building official will
determine is reasonable (not to exceed 90 days from the date of the order),
that all required permits be secured therefor within 90 days from the date of
the order and that the demolition be completed within such time as the building
official will determine is reasonable.
   (C)   Abatement. Upon expiration of the time in the notice and the appeal
period described below, the building official may cause the abatement of the
dangerous structure or building in accordance with §§
91.003 or
91.004.
   (D)   Appeal.
      (1)   (a)   Any person receiving a notice and corrective order from the
building official, pursuant to this chapter, may appeal the building official’s
order by filing with the Town Clerk a written appeal within 14 days from the
date of the notice and order.
         (b)   The appeal shall contain:
            1.   A list of names of all persons participating in the appeal;
            2.   A brief statement setting forth the legal interest of each of
the persons in the building or the structure involved in the notice and order;
            3.   A brief statement of the specific order or action protested,
together with any material facts claimed to support the appeal; and
            4.   A brief statement of the relief sought and the reasons why it
is claimed the protested order or action should be reversed, modified or
otherwise set aside.
      (2)   If the property owner files an appeal with the Town Clerk before
the expiration of the 14-day period, the Town Clerk shall refer the matter to a
hearing officer appointed by the Town Clerk for determination.
      (3)   (a)   Upon conclusion of administrative review, the hearing officer
shall determine, in writing, whether the notice and order were proper.
         (b)   The town shall have the burden of proof, by a preponderance of
the evidence.
         (c)   According to that determination, the hearing officer shall
affirm, cancel or modify the notice and order.
         (d)   The hearing officer shall furnish a copy of this determination
to the person making the appeal together with a notice of such person’s right
to appeal to the District Court.
(Ord. 01-2021, passed 1-27-2021)
§ 91.054 REPAIR, VACATION AND DEMOLITION.
   The following standards shall be used by the building official in ordering
the repair, vacation or demolition of a dangerous building or structure.
   (A)   If the building or structure can reasonably be repaired so that it
will no longer exist in violation of the terms of this chapter, it shall be
ordered repaired.
   (B)   If the building or structure is unfit for human occupancy, it shall be
ordered to be vacated.
   (C)   In any case where a building or structure is 50% damaged or decayed,
or deteriorated from its original value or structure, it shall be demolished,
and, in all cases where a building cannot be repaired so it will no longer
exist in violation of the terms of this chapter, it shall be demolished.
(Ord. 01-2021, passed 1-27-2021)
§ 91.055 EMERGENCY ENFORCEMENT.
   Notwithstanding any other section of this chapter, the building official may
require immediate remedial action to enforce the provisions of this chapter in
accordance with §
91.004.
(Ord. 01-2021, passed 1-27-2021)
WEEDS AND VEGETATION
§ 91.070 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABUTTING LAND. A parcel of land which has a common property line with
another parcel of land.
   ALLEY. A minor way which is used primarily for vehicular service access to
the rear or side of properties otherwise abutting on the street. Its use is for
secondary access to the lot and/or service purposes. An ALLEY shall not be
considered to be a street.
   BRUSH. Volunteer growth of bushes, shrubs and trees such as are growing wild
and without care and includes all cuttings from trees, shrubs and bushes and
high and rank shrubbery growth which may conceal filthy deposits.
   COMMERCIAL/BUSINESS. Includes all kinds of vocations, occupations, home
occupations, professions, enterprises and establishments, any of which are
conducted on any premises or are otherwise carried on within the town or
anywhere else within its jurisdiction.
   DANDELIONS. The weed Taraxacum Officinale Weber.
   STREET or HIGHWAY. The entire width between the boundary lines of every
right-of-way publicly maintained where any part thereof is open to the use of
the public for purposes of vehicular travel.
   WEEDS.
      (1)   Those plant species that are designated as noxious by the Colorado
Noxious Weed Act; C.R.S. §§ 35-5.5-101 et seq., as amended; and further defined
by rules set forth by the State Department of Agriculture pertaining to the
administration and enforcement of the Colorado Noxious Weed Act.
      (2)   In addition to the foregoing, WEEDS includes brush, whether noxious
or not, which is in excess of six inches in height and which meets the
definition of BRUSH stated in this section.
      (3)   The foregoing is not intended to be exclusive, but rather is
intended to be indicative of those types of plants which are unsightly,
useless, troublesome or injurious, and does not include flower gardens, plots
of shrubbery or vegetable gardens.
(Ord. 01-2021, passed 1-27-2021)
§ 91.071 NUISANCE DECLARED.
   (A)   Any unauthorized accumulation of weeds or brush on any premises is
declared to be a nuisance and a health hazard and is prohibited.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person:
      (1)   To permit weeds, grasses or brush to grow to a height in excess of
six inches upon any lot, tract or parcel owned or occupied by such person;
      (2)   To store, keep or permit to remain on any lot, tract or parcel
owned or occupied by such person trees, limbs or branches of trees, shrubs or
plants, whether alive or dead, which are dangerous to health or property;
      (3)   To fail to remove trees, limbs or branches of trees, shrubs or
plants, whether alive or dead, which are dangerous to health or property,
together with all litter of all kinds, from any lot, tract or parcel owned or
occupied by such person;
      (4)   (a)   Cause or permit to accumulate any grass clippings or leaves
anywhere in the town.
         (b)   1.   This division (B)(4) shall not apply to vegetable materials
in any properly layered, actively working compost pile, or to a thin layer of
grass clippings used as mulch.
            2.   Provided the grass clippings are not able to blow from the
property and do not cause an odor that can be detected from any adjacent
property and provided that the compost pile shall be kept so as not to attract
rodents; or
      (5)   To permit weeds, grasses or brush to grow to a height in excess of
six inches, to store, keep or permit to remain any trees, limbs or branches of
trees, shrubs or plants, whether alive or dead, which are dangerous to health
or property, or to fail to remove the same together with all litter of all
kinds, upon and from the area from any lot, tract or parcel owned or occupied
by such person to the middle of any alley abutting behind or on the side of the
lot, tract or parcel, or upon and from the area from any lot, tract or parcel
owned or occupied by such person to the street abutting to the front or on the
side of the lot, tract or parcel, such area to include, but not limited to, the
curb, gutter and sidewalk.
(Ord. 01-2021, passed 1-27-2021) Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.072 PROHIBITED ACCUMULATIONS DESIGNATED.
   It is unlawful for any owner, lessee, agent, occupant or person in
possession or control of any occupied or unoccupied lot or tract of land or any
part thereof in the town to permit or maintain on any such lot or tract of
land, or on or along the sidewalk, street or alley adjacent to the same, any
growth of weeds to a height greater than six inches or any accumulation of
weeds or brush.
(Ord. 01-2021, passed 1-27-2021) Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.999 PENALTY.
   Any person convicted of a violation of this chapter shall be punished as
provided in §
10.99 of this code.
CHAPTER 92: ABANDONED AND JUNK VEHICLES
Section
   
92.01   Removal of vehicles generally
   
92.02   Storage and disposal
   
92.03   Definitions
   
92.04   Abandonment and public keeping prohibited
   
92.05   Junked vehicle prohibited - exceptions
   
92.06   Restrictions on storage of vehicles - ownership requirements
   
92.07   Sleeper vehicle and trailer regulations
   
92.08   Entry of private property
   
92.09   Waiver of liability
   
92.10   Owner’s opportunity to request a hearing - public tow
 
   
92.99   Penalty
§ 92.01 REMOVAL OF VEHICLES GENERALLY.
   (A)   Members of the Police Department are authorized to remove, or have
removed, a vehicle to the nearest place of safety, or to a garage designated or
maintained by the town, under the circumstances listed here:
      (1)   When any vehicle is left upon any bridge, causeway or underpass,
where the vehicle is an obstruction to traffic;
      (2)   When a vehicle upon a street is so disabled as to be an obstruction
to traffic, or the person or persons in charge of the vehicle are, by reason of
physical injury or otherwise, incapacitated to such an extent as to be unable
to provide for its custody and removal;
      (3)   When a vehicle is being driven upon the streets and is not in
proper condition to be driven;
      (4)   When a vehicle is left on a street and is parked illegally so as to
be a hazard or obstruction to the normal movement of traffic, or proper street
or highway maintenance, or the collection of trash or other items by any
sanitation or recycling collection vehicle;
      (5)   When a vehicle is in violation of §
92.04;
      (6)   When the driver of the vehicle is taken into custody by the Police
Department and the vehicle would be left unattended, except on private property
with the property owner’s permission;
      (7)   When removal is necessary in the interest of public safety because
of fire, flood, storm or another emergency reason;
      (8)   When a vehicle is on public property and is in violation of §
92.06;
      (9)   When a vehicle is in violation of §
92.07;
      (10)   Any vehicle failing to display number plates or failing to display
the proper number plate or plates assigned to the vehicle under the provisions
of C.R.S. Title 42, as amended, or displaying number plates in a manner as to
reasonably indicate a violation of any provision of C.R.S. Title 42, or any
other provision of state law with respect to motor vehicle number plates, while
parked, attended or unattended or traveling on the streets, highways or
roadways of the town;
      (11)   When a vehicle is parked in a tow-away zone;
      (12)   When there is probable cause to believe that the driver of a
vehicle has never obtained an operator’s license;
      (13)   When there is probable cause to believe that the operator’s
license of the driver is suspended, revoked, denied or cancelled;
      (14)   When the officer has reason to believe that the driver is not in
rightful possession of the vehicle and the officer cannot verify ownership
through readily available methods;
      (15)   When the law otherwise requires impoundment; and
      (16)   When the driver of such vehicle is unable to present evidence of a
complying insurance policy or certificate of self-insurance in full force and
effect as required by § 1409 of the Model Traffic Code for Colorado, as
adopted, and amended by the town from time to time.
   (B)   Town parking enforcement officers, as authorized by the Chief of
Police, and code enforcement inspectors can remove or order the removal of a
vehicle to a garage designated or maintained by the town, under the
circumstances set forth under divisions (A)(5), (A)(8) and (A)(11) above.
   (C)   Members of the Police Department, the Chief Building Official, code
enforcement inspectors and others authorized by the Town Manager may remove or
order the removal of a junked vehicle from private real property pursuant to
the nuisance abatement procedures in §§
91.001 through
91.005.
(Ord. 01-2021, passed 1-27-2021; Ord. 08-2022, passed 5-25-2022) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.02 STORAGE AND DISPOSAL.
   Whenever an officer removes and impounds or stores a vehicle as authorized
in §
92.01, such vehicle will be stored or disposed of in accordance with the
provisions of C.R.S. §§ 42-4-1804 and 42-4-1805, as amended from time to time.
(Ord. 01-2021, passed 1-27-2021) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.03 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABANDONED OR PUBLICLY KEPT VEHICLE.
      (1)   Any vehicle left on private property for 48 hours without the
consent of the owner or lessee of such property or his or her legally
authorized agent;
      (2)   Any vehicle left on private property without the consent of the
owner or lessee of the property or his or her legally authorized agent when
such private property has been posted to give notice that any vehicles left on
the private property without permission may be towed at the owner’s expense.
Such notice shall be posted with signs visible to ordinarily observant persons
on the property;
      (3)   Any vehicle left on public property, including any portion of a
highway, street or other right-of-way for 48 hours or longer;
      (4)   Any sleeper vehicle or trailer parked on public property, including
any portion of a highway, street or other right-of-way, for a period longer
than 48 hours, except as follows: trailers owned by bona fide contractors for
the purpose of storing or moving materials, tools or equipment necessary to
make repairs or alterations on private property may be left for a limited time,
not to exceed 180 days, on the block face and the block face on the opposite
side of the street of a particular parcel of private property where such
repairs or alterations are actively occurring, if the owner of such trailer or
trailers posts a conspicuous dated notice, including the address of the job
site and contact information, or a copy of their building permit, on the street
side of each such trailer; and
      (5)   Any vehicle parked in an alley within the town because parking in
alleys is strictly prohibited.
   JUNKED. Any vehicle which:
      (1)   Does not bear valid, unexpired license plates, unless of a type
specifically exempted from motor vehicle licensing by the laws of the state;
      (2)   Is wrecked, damaged or substantially dismantled to the extent that
such vehicle is inoperable; or
      (3)   If designed to be capable of moving itself when in proper repair,
is incapable of being moved under its own power in its existing condition or
does not have all tires inflated.
   PROPERTY. Any real property within the town which is not a street, alley or
highway.
   SLEEPER VEHICLE.
      (1)   A vehicle that is designed, intended and used for purposes of
temporary living accommodation for recreation, camping and travel, including,
but not limited to, a camper coach, camper trailer, motor home, multi-purpose
trailer, trailer coach, fifth wheel trailer, pop-up trailer, camper van, travel
trailer, truck camper and bus camper.
      (2)   For the purposes of this definition, a truck topper accessory (also
known as a camper shell) that is not higher than eight inches above the truck
cab when installed shall not be considered a recreational vehicle.
   STREET or HIGHWAY. The entire width between the boundary lines of every way
publicly maintained when any part thereof is open to the use of the public for
purposes of vehicular travel.
   TRAILER. Any wheeled vehicle, without motive power, which is designed to be
drawn by a motor vehicle to carry its cargo load wholly upon its own structure
and that is generally and commonly used to carry and transport property over
the public highways.
   VEHICLE. An automobile, truck, motorcycle, motorbike, ATV, golf cart,
snowmobile, boat, trailer, camper, house-trailer or similar mode of wheeled
transportation.
(Ord. 01-2021, passed 1-27-2021; Ord. 08-2022, passed 5-25-2022)
§ 92.04 ABANDONMENT AND PUBLIC KEEPING PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Act prohibited. It is unlawful to abandon or publicly keep any vehicle
in the town.
   (B)   Savings. This chapter shall not render lawful any act or omission
prohibited under any other section of this code or any other applicable law.
   (C)   Exceptions. This prohibition shall not apply to vehicles used by on-
duty public safety personnel in performance of their official duties; or by
state or town staff or contractors, or utility company staff or contractors,
performing construction or maintenance activities under state or town
authorization.
(Ord. 01-2021, passed 1-27-2021) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.05 JUNKED VEHICLE PROHIBITED - EXCEPTIONS.
   It is unlawful for any person to permit any junked vehicle to be left upon
any street, highway, public property or, being the owner or tenant in
possession of any real property in the town, to cause or permit any junked
vehicle to be put upon or kept upon any real property in the town, except that
this section shall not apply to the following conditions, which shall
constitute an affirmative defense:
   (A)   The vehicle is located upon the premises of a lawfully zoned vehicle
repair or vehicle storage business;
   (B)   The vehicle is stored within a completely enclosed structure;
   (C)   In nonresidential areas, the vehicle is screened by a concealing fence
not less than six feet in height and otherwise complying with town ordinances
applicable to such fence, rendering the vehicle not visible to persons on
adjacent private or public property to the extent concealment can be reasonably
obtained under the conditions of topography and other attendant circumstances;
   (D)   A maximum of one vehicle per lot or parcel of real property is
permitted if the vehicle is currently undergoing repair or is awaiting the
settlement of an insurance claim; provided the vehicle is removed or brought
into compliance within 90 days; or
   (E)   A vehicle which is determined to be a motor vehicle collector’s item
as defined and regulated by C.R.S. § 42-12-101, as amended, so long as the
keeping and storage of such motor vehicle is in compliance with said statute.
(Ord. 01-2021, passed 1-27-2021) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.06 RESTRICTIONS ON STORAGE OF VEHICLES - OWNERSHIP REQUIREMENTS.
   The storage of junked vehicles, as authorized by §
92.05(C) and (E), shall be permitted only as to vehicles owned by the occupant
of the premises upon which such vehicle is located, or by members of the
immediate family of the occupant.
(Ord. 01-2021, passed 1-27-2021) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.07 SLEEPER VEHICLE AND TRAILER REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (C) below, no person shall use any
sleeper vehicle for temporary or permanent living, sleeping, housekeeping or
preparation of food while parked or stopped on any public right-of-way or on
private property within the town.
   (B)   Up to two sleeper vehicles or two trailers or any combination thereof;
up to two may be parked on private property for which the principal use is
either single-family or two-family residential if such sleeper vehicles or
trailers are registered to and owned by the owner or occupant of such private
property and are located at least three feet back from the sidewalk or the
front property line where no sidewalk exists except as provided in §
92.03(4). Pre-existing circumstances or situations are not exempt from this
chapter.
   (C)   (1)   The owner or occupant of any property located in a zone district
for which the principal use is residential may allow guests traveling in a
sleeper vehicle to park their sleeper vehicle on such owner or occupant’s
property for a maximum period of seven consecutive days if the sleeper vehicle
is parked at least three feet back from the sidewalk or the front property line
where no sidewalk exists.
      (2)   Guest sleeper vehicle parking shall be limited to one seven-day
period per vehicle in 12 consecutive months; provided, however, that the Town
Manager, or his or her designee, may grant an extension for not more than seven
additional days upon written request by the owner or occupant of the property
where the sleeper vehicle is parked.
(Ord. 01-2021, passed 1-27-2021; Ord. 08-2022, passed 5-25-2022) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.08 ENTRY OF PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   The Chief of Police of the Police Department, any police officer or any
designee appointed by the Chief of Police for the purpose of enforcing this
chapter is authorized to go on private property for the purpose of making an
investigation of any violation of this chapter and for the purpose of
determining ownership and condition of any motor vehicle reasonably appearing
to be in violation of any of the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 01-2021, passed 1-27-2021)
§ 92.09 WAIVER OF LIABILITY.
   Neither the Chief of Police, the Town Manager, any police officer, their
designees or any person acting under their direction or control shall be liable
or responsible in any manner to the owner of the vehicle, the person claiming
to be the owner of a motor vehicle or any other person, for or on account of
any damage to the motor vehicle or other property, or the loss or damage of or
to any property which may be contained within the motor vehicle as a result of
towing, storing or disposing of the motor vehicle pursuant to the provisions of
this chapter.
(Ord. 01-2021, passed 1-27-2021)
§ 92.10 OWNER’S OPPORTUNITY TO REQUEST A HEARING - PUBLIC TOW.
   (A)   When any vehicle is towed or removed pursuant to this chapter, the
Police Department shall, in addition to other notification requirements
applicable to motor vehicles under the laws of the state, within ten regular
business days after receipt of the report from the State Department of Revenue,
or ascertainment of ownership of vehicles not subject to the state reporting
procedures, notify by certified mail or personal service the owner of record,
if ascertained, of the owner’s opportunity to request a hearing concerning the
legality of the towing or removal of the abandoned, publicly kept or junked
vehicle, and that the request for hearing shall be submitted to the Town
Municipal Court. Such request shall be made in writing within 20 days of the
mailing of such notice.
   (B)   The court shall schedule a hearing on the matter within 30 days of the
date of the request, and the hearing shall be conducted according to due
process standards applicable to administrative hearings.
   (C)   If it is determined at the hearing that the vehicle was illegally
towed or removed following the direction and authority of the Police Department
in disregard of the standards for junked and abandoned or publicly kept
vehicles stated in this chapter, all towing and removal charges and storage
fees assessed against the vehicles shall be forgiven or paid by the town;
however, nothing shall relieve the owner of the obligation to mitigate the
costs involved by prompt retrieval or disposal of the property.
   (D)   If the court sustains the legality of the towing or removal, an
administrative hearing fee of $25 shall be assessed against the owner
requesting the hearing.
   (E)   All appeals of the decision of the court shall be in accordance with
Rule 106(a)(4) of the Colorado Rules of Civil Procedure.
(Ord. 01-2021, passed 1-27-2021)
§ 92.99 PENALTY.
   Any person convicted of a violation of this chapter shall be punished as
provided in §
10.99 of this code.
CHAPTER 93: STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
Section
Sidewalks
   
93.01   Definitions
   
93.02   Unsafe sidewalks and rights-of-way
   
93.03   Person responsible for vacant property
   
93.04   Permit required for repair or replacement
   
93.05   Town responsibility
 
   
93.99   Penalty
SIDEWALKS
§ 93.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALLEY.
      (1)   A minor way which is used primarily for vehicular service access to
the rear or side of properties otherwise abutting on the street.
      (2)   Its use is for secondary access to the lot and/or service purposes.
An ALLEY shall not be considered to be a street.
   SIDEWALK. A paved path for pedestrians at the side of a road.
   STREET or HIGHWAY. The entire width between the boundary lines of every way
publicly maintained when any part thereof is open to the use of the public for
purposes of vehicular travel.
(Ord. 01-2021, passed 1-27-2021)
§ 93.02 UNSAFE SIDEWALKS AND RIGHTS-OF-WAY.
   (A)   Hazards and obstructions.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for the owner or occupant of any building,
property or lot in the town to fail to maintain the sidewalks, curb and gutters
adjacent to such property, including those on public rights-of-way, in a clean
and repaired condition and free of hazards and obstructions, including, but not
limited to, piles of materials, vegetation, weeds, tree limbs, trash
containers, structures, sports equipment or any other object located less than
seven feet above a sidewalk.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful for the owner or occupant of any building,
property or lot in the town to deposit, place or otherwise locate, or to allow
the deposition, placement or location, upon any public right-of-way adjacent to
such building property or lot any hazard or obstruction, including, but not
limited to, piles of materials, vegetation, weeds, tree limbs, trash
containers, structures or sports equipment. An exception is made for lawfully
parked motor vehicles.
   (B)   Snow and ice removal.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for the owner or occupant of any building,
property or lot in the town to fail to remove the accumulation of snow, sleet,
hail or ice from the sidewalks adjacent to such property, including those on
public rights-of-way, within 24 hours after the termination of each such
snowfall, sleet, hail or ice.
      (2)   It shall further be unlawful for any person, to deposit, or cause
to be deposited, any snow, sleet, hail or ice against any fire hydrant, or
other appurtenance, or onto any public or private property that is not owned
by, occupied by or otherwise under the legal control of the person without the
express consent of the owner or occupant of the property.
   (C)   Trash and garbage receptacles.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful to place, or permit to be placed, any solid
waste or solid waste container at the place of collection at the residential
premises more than 24 hours of the day preceding the scheduled collection.
      (2)   No container may be left at the place of collection for 24 hours
after the day of collection.
   (D)   Abatement by town. Whenever the Police Chief, a police officer, code
enforcement officer or another employee authorized by the Town Manager
(referenced, collectively hereafter, as authorized officers) determines that a
violation of this §
93.02 exists on or in any lot, building or premises, the authorized officer may
give notice in the manner prescribed in §
91.003, except that the correction order shall only allow 24 hours to remove
snow, ice or trash and garbage receptacles.
(Ord. 01-2021, passed 1-27-2021; Ord. 08-2022, passed 5-25-2022) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.03 PERSON RESPONSIBLE FOR VACANT PROPERTY.
   (A)   Where any premises or parts of premises are not occupied in any
manner, it shall be the duty of the owner thereof to comply with the
requirements of §
93.02.
   (B)   In the event the owner of any such premises so unoccupied shall be a
nonresident of the town or absent from the town, that owner shall appoint a
resident agent who shall have charge of such premises and shall comply with the
requirements imposed in §
93.02.
(Ord. 01-2021, passed 1-27-2021)
§ 93.04 PERMIT REQUIRED FOR REPAIR OR REPLACEMENT.
   (A)   (1)   No property owner, occupant or other person shall repair,
replace or modify any sidewalk located in the public right-of-way without first
contacting the Town Planning and Zoning Department. All sidewalk construction
or modification shall comply with
Chapter 153.
      (2)   Permits (when necessary) may be reviewed and approved by the
Planning Department and the Town Manager.
   (B)   (1)   Sidewalks shall be repaired or replaced when they have become
unsafe due to deterioration or movement of the earth or movement of the
sidewalk so as to create a hazard to pedestrians.
      (2)   Sidewalk repair or replacement is the responsibility of the
property owner upon whose property the sidewalk is located or whose property is
adjacent to the sidewalk or right-of-way on which the sidewalk lies.
   (C)   Sidewalks shall be repaired or replaced only as follows:
      (1)   By repairing or replacing the sidewalk in a manner that puts the
sidewalk in a condition as close as possible to the original sidewalk using
similar materials, grade and size and taking into consideration adjacent and
other neighborhood sidewalks and considering uniformity and safety;
      (2)   In accordance with the specifications set forth in the
Chapter 153, so long as the sidewalk is compatible with the style, material,
colors and details of surrounding buildings. Sidewalks should not be
constructed of asphalt; and
      (3)   Sidewalk repair, replacement or construction shall be completed in
a manner that provides for the safety of pedestrians and complies with the
requirements of the Americans with Disabilities Act when applicable.
(Ord. 01-2021, passed 1-27-2021; Ord. 08-2022, passed 5-25-2022) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.05 TOWN RESPONSIBILITY.
   (A)   The town may replace or repair, or may cause to be replaced or
repaired, curb and gutter and any sidewalk combined with the curb and gutter,
commonly referred to as a rollover curb.
   (B)   Any person or entity that causes damage to any curb and gutter shall
reimburse the town for such repair or replacement cost.
(Ord. 01-2021, passed 1-27-2021)
§ 93.99 PENALTY.
   Any person convicted of a violation of this chapter shall be punished as
provided in §
10.99 of this code.
CHAPTER 94: FIRE PREVENTION
Section
Fireworks
   
94.01   Definitions
   
94.02   Sale and discharge - prohibited fireworks
   
94.03   Retail sales license - required
   
94.04   Retail sales license - requirements
   
94.05   Retail sales license - term - fee
   
94.06   Unlawful sale and possession
   
94.07   Seizure by police
   
94.08   Fireworks displays
Open Burning
   
94.20   Burning
   
94.21   Lawful burning
   
94.22   Fire Chief may prohibit
   
94.23   Compliance; permit
 
   
94.99   Penalty
Cross-reference
   Offenses against public peace, see
Chapter 133
FIREWORKS
§ 94.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   FIREWORKS. Defined as set forth in C.R.S. § 24-33.5-2001, as amended.
   PERMISSIBLE FIREWORKS. Those small fireworks devices set forth in C.R.S. §
24-33.5-2001, as amended.
   PERSON. Includes an individual, partnership, firm, company, association,
corporation or governmental agency.
   PROHIBITED FIREWORKS. Those fireworks that are not permissible fireworks.
(Ord. 01-2021, passed 1-27-2021)
§ 94.02 SALE AND DISCHARGE - PROHIBITED FIREWORKS.
   It is unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to sell, exhibit, offer
or expose for sale or to have in his or her possession, lend or give away, set
fire to, discharge or explode any prohibited fireworks.
(Ord. 01-2021, passed 1-27-2021) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.03 RETAIL SALES LICENSE - REQUIRED.
   No person shall sell at retail any permissible fireworks until he or she has
obtained a license from the town.
(Ord. 01-2021, passed 1-27-2021) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.04 RETAIL SALES LICENSE - REQUIREMENTS.
   A license to sell fireworks in this town shall issue only for such sales as
are permitted under this subchapter and the state statutes, and only when the
Town Manager or his or her designee has determined that the vendor meets the
following requirements:
   (A)   The applicant, or if a corporation, its officers and directors, are of
a good moral character and reputation; and
   (B)   The applicant has no plan, intent or scheme to make sales which are
prohibited by this subchapter or the state statutes.
(Ord. 01-2021, passed 1-27-2021)
§ 94.05 RETAIL SALES LICENSE - TERM - FEE.
   (A)   A retailer’s license shall be good only for the calendar year in which
it is issued.
   (B)   (1)   A retailer’s license shall apply to only one retail location and
to only one person.
      (2)   It shall not be transferable, and shall be displayed in an open and
obvious manner at all times at the place of business where the person to whom
the license is issued is authorized to sell fireworks.
   (C)   The fee for a retailer of fireworks permit shall be $25, or as
otherwise set by resolution of the Board of Trustees.
(Ord. 01-2021, passed 1-27-2021)
§ 94.06 UNLAWFUL SALE AND POSSESSION.
   (A)   The Town Board of Trustees, or its designee, shall be authorized from
time to time, based upon climatic conditions related to the danger of fire, and
upon the recommendation of the Fire Chief, to prohibit by resolution the sale
and use of:
      (1)   All forms of fireworks, including permissible fireworks; and
      (2)   All other explosive materials for pyrotechnic displays within the
town, except for professional firework displays specifically approved by the
Fire Chief in advance of any such display.
   (B)   Whenever a prohibition has been declared by the Town Board of
Trustees, or its designee, pursuant to this section, the Police Chief, any
police officers or other employees designated by the Town Manger are authorized
and directed to:
      (1)   Enforce the ban on any sale or use of fireworks within the town and
to seize, take and remove, at the expense of the owner, all stocks of
fireworks, including permissible fireworks, offered or exposed for sale, stored
or held in violation of, and to seize, take; and
      (2)   Remove all such fireworks from a person using them in violation of
a prohibition declared by the Town Board of Trustees.
(Ord. 01-2021, passed 1-27-2021) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.07 SEIZURE BY POLICE.
   The Police Department shall seize, take and remove, at the expense of the
owner, all stocks of fireworks or combustibles offered or exposed for sale,
stored or held in violation of this subchapter.
(Ord. 01-2021, passed 1-27-2021)
§ 94.08 FIREWORKS DISPLAYS.
   The provisions of this subchapter do not apply to fireworks displays
sponsored or cosponsored by the town.
(Ord. 01-2021, passed 1-27-2021)
OPEN BURNING
§ 94.20 BURNING.
   Except as permitted pursuant to the laws and regulations of the state and by
the other provisions of this subchapter, it shall be unlawful for any person to
set on fire or burn any combustible waste or material of any kind by open
burning or by incinerator burning within the town.
(Ord. 3-04, passed 8-11-2004) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.21 LAWFUL BURNING.
   The following are exceptions to the foregoing restrictions on burning:
   (A)   Agricultural open burning. The open burning of cover vegetation for
the purposes of preparing the soil for crop production, weed control or other
agricultural cultivation purpose;
   (B)   Business incinerator burning. Any business located within a properly
zoned business, commercial or industrial district may burn its own refuse on
the premises; provided such burning is limited to cardboard and occurs in a
proper incinerator with a screen to prevent dispersal of sparks and ash;
   (C)   Monthly burning. The open burning of small tree limbs (less than one
inch in diameter), lawn, shrub and garden trimmings and other vegetation and
non-commercial burning of private household trash shall be permitted only on
the third weekend of each month, or on designated days set by the Board of
Trustees or the Town Manager. Such burning shall occur only between three hours
after sunrise and three hours before sunset and additional fuel may not be
intentionally added to the fire. Such monthly burning shall be permitted on
private property, only with the consent of the owner or person in charge of the
property. Any fire resulting from such monthly burning shall be at least 20
feet from any structure and shall be constantly attended by a competent person
until such fire is extinguished. For the purposes of this division (C), PRIVATE
HOUSEHOLD TRASH is paper, cardboard and untreated wood products. It is not food
wastes, plastics, coated or treated wood products or rubber;
   (D)   Training fires. Fires set for the purpose of training public or
private firefighting personnel, with the approval of the Town Manager;
   (E)   Food preparation. Outdoor burning in connection with the preparation
of food;
   (F)   Ceremonial fires. Fires used solely for recreational purposes or for
ceremonial purposes; and
   (G)   Safety flares. Safety flares used to signal danger to the public.
(Ord. 3-04, passed 8-11-2004; Ord. 3-09, passed 8-12-2009) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.22 FIRE CHIEF MAY PROHIBIT.
   The Chief of the Town Fire Department may prohibit all outdoor burning when
atmospheric conditions or local circumstances make such fires hazardous.
(Ord. 3-04, passed 8-11-2004) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.23 COMPLIANCE; PERMIT.
   In addition to the requirements of this subchapter, all persons shall comply
with state laws and regulations concerning open burning, including, but not
limited to, the requirement to obtain an open burning permit from the State
Department of Public Health and Environment. Any person burning pursuant to §
94.21 and who is required to obtain an open burning permit from the State
Department of Public Health and Environment shall submit a copy of such permit
to the Town Clerk prior to conducting any burning within the town.
(Ord. 3-09, passed 8-12-2009)
§ 94.99 PENALTY.
   Any person convicted of a violation of this chapter shall be punished as
provided in §
10.99 of this code.
CHAPTER 95: ALARM SYSTEMS
Section
Emergency Alarm Systems
   
95.01   Definition
   
95.02   False alarms
   
95.03   Rules and regulations generally
 
   
95.99   Penalty
EMERGENCY ALARM SYSTEMS
§ 95.01 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALARM.
      (1)   A signal from a system requiring the dispatch of a police officer,
and false alarm means a signal from an alarm system which is determined by the
Chief of Police, or his or her designee, to have been made in error, as the
result of electrical or electronic malfunction, or deliberately made by the
person in control of said alarm system.
      (2)   Notwithstanding the foregoing, this subchapter shall not apply to
medical alert systems.
(Ord. 01-2021, passed 1-27-2021; Ord. 08-2022, passed 5-25-2022)
§ 95.02 FALSE ALARMS.
   (A)   Any person using an alarm system shall pay to the town a fee, as set
forth in division (D) below, for response to a place of business or home by
members of its Police Department, occasioned by a false alarm from the system,
if and when the number of false alarms from the system exceeds three in 12
consecutive months.
   (B)   No false alarm shall be counted under the provisions of this
subchapter if the owner or user of the alarm system has promptly notified the
Police Department of the false alarm or if the alarm is occasioned by any
criminal activity.
   (C)   Anyone that is in violation of three false alarms in 12 consecutive
months may be subject to no response by the Police Department at its
discretion.
   (D)   The fee for false alarms shall be set by the Board of Trustees from
time to time. Failure to pay such fee shall be a violation of this subchapter
and may result in a summons and complaint being issued in Municipal Court.
(Ord. 01-2021, passed 1-27-2021; Ord. 08-2022, passed 5-25-2022) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.03 RULES AND REGULATIONS GENERALLY.
   The town may from time to time adopt such reasonable rules and regulations
as it may deem necessary to assure the quality, efficiency and effectiveness of
any such emergency alarm devices.
(Ord. 01-2021, passed 1-27-2021; Ord. 08-2022, passed 5-25-2022)
§ 95.99 PENALTY.
   Any person convicted of a violation of this chapter shall be punished as
provided in §
10.99 of this code.
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   LICENSING REGULATIONS
      
111.   PEDDLERS, SOLICITORS AND VENDORS
      
112.   LIQUOR
      
113.   MARIJUANA
CHAPTER 110: LICENSING REGULATIONS
Section
Business Licensing
   
110.01   Purpose
   
110.02   Definitions
   
110.03   Conducting business without license deemed unlawful
   
110.04   Exempt activities
   
110.05   Applications
   
110.06   License fee; term
   
110.07   Investigation and issuance
   
110.08   Denial
   
110.09   License contents
   
110.10   License required for each place of business; posting and exhibition
   
110.11   License nontransferable
   
110.12   Renewals
   
110.13   Suspension or revocation
   
110.14   Return of fees
Contractors, Subcontractors and Tradesperson Licensing
   
110.25   License or registration required
   
110.26   Exceptions
   
110.27   Definition
   
110.28   License fee; term
   
110.29   Insurance required
   
110.30   Authority to deny license
   
110.31   License changes
   
110.32   Responsibility for contracted work
   
110.33   Safety standards generally
   
110.34   Suspension or revocation of license
 
   
110.99   Penalty
BUSINESS LICENSING
§ 110.01 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter shall be to require the licensing of all
business activities and enterprises physically located within the town and to
provide the town with necessary information concerning the businesses within
the town, including, but not limited to, the nature of the business operation,
the number of employees, place of business and emergency contacts, in order to
protect the health, welfare and safety of the town’s inhabitants.
(Ord. 05-2015, passed 6-4-2015)
§ 110.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUSINESS. Includes all kinds of vocations, occupations, home occupations,
professions, enterprises and establishments, any of which are conducted on any
premises within the town or anywhere else within its jurisdiction.
   PREMISES. Includes all land, structures and places, and the equipment and
appurtenances connected or used therewith, in any business, and also any
personal property which is either affixed to, or otherwise used in connection
with, any such business conducted on the premises.
   TOWN CLERK. The Town Clerk for the Town of Wiggins, or such person’s
designee.
(Ord. 05-2015, passed 6-4-2015)
§ 110.03 CONDUCTING BUSINESS WITHOUT LICENSE DEEMED UNLAWFUL.
   It is unlawful for any person, whether as a principal, agent, clerk or
employee, either for himself, herself or for any other person, corporation or
otherwise, to commence, carry on or establish any kind of business without
first having received from the town a business license to do so or without
complying with any and all regulations of such business contained in this
subchapter.
(Ord. 05-2015, passed 6-4-2015) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.04 EXEMPT ACTIVITIES.
   (A)   The provisions of this subchapter shall not apply to:
      (1)   Any canvassing on behalf of a candidate for elective public office
or for proponents of a measure to be placed on the ballot;
      (2)   Activity consisting solely of mere delivery in the town where no
intent exists or is shown to exist to evade the provisions of this subchapter;
      (3)   The selling of newspapers on public streets or in public places in
a manner otherwise in compliance with town ordinances;
      (4)   Established delivery routes, persons calling by appointment, yard
sales or garage sales;
      (5)   Activities of the federal or state government or municipal
corporations;
      (6)   Occasional babysitting not including childcare operations; and
      (7)   Businesses that have a state standard retail license and either do
not have a physical presence within the town or have only an incidental
physical presence in the town, as provided in C.R.S. § 39-26-802.9, as amended.
   (B)   The burden of proving an exemption to this subchapter is upon the
person claiming such exemption. Determinations regarding the application of an
exemption shall be made in writing by the Town Clerk. The business subject to
such determination may appeal the determination to the Town Manager, whose
decision shall be final. Any appeal to the Town Manager shall be made in
writing within 15 days of the Clerk’s determination.
(Ord. 05-2015, passed 6-4-2015)
§ 110.05 APPLICATIONS.
   (A)   Every person required to obtain a license under this subchapter shall
submit a license application to the Town Clerk.
   (B)   The application shall contain:
      (1)   The name of the business for which a license is requested, and the
name of the person, firm or corporation requesting such license;
      (2)   The residence address of the applicant and, if the applicant is an
entity, the names of the officers, directors and owners of such entity and the
address of such entity’s principal place of business;
      (3)   The nature of the business to be performed, practiced or carried
out;
      (4)   The street address, if any, where such business is to be carried
on;
      (5)    The telephone number of the business; the name of the manager of
the business, if any; and the number of employees of the business;
      (6)   The year for which such license is sought;
      (7)   A copy of the state sales tax license for the business; and
      (8)   Any other relevant information required for compliance with this
subchapter or deemed to be reasonably necessary by the Town Clerk for the fair
administration of this subchapter.
(Ord. 05-2015, passed 6-4-2015)
§ 110.06 LICENSE FEE; TERM.
   (A)   (1)   There shall be paid, by each applicant for a business license, a
non-refundable annual business license fee in an amount set by resolution of
the Board of Trustees.
      (2)   Such fees shall be paid in advance at the time application therefor
is made to the Town Clerk. For business licenses issued after June 30 of any
year, the license fee for the year of issuance will be one-half of the annual
license fee.
   (B)   All licenses shall expire on January 1 of each calendar year unless
sooner revoked, cancelled or suspended.
(Ord. 05-2015, passed 6-4-2015)
§ 110.07 INVESTIGATION AND ISSUANCE.
   (A)   Upon receipt of the application containing the information set forth
in §
110.05, proof that the annual fee therefor has been paid and compliance with
all other provisions of this subchapter, the Town Clerk shall issue and deliver
to the applicant the license requested.
   (B)   (1)   The business license required by this subchapter shall be in
addition to any other license or permit required by the town’s ordinances, and
the issuance of a general business license does not permit any conduct that is
prohibited or that does not fully comply with the requirements of the town’s
ordinances.
      (2)   By way of example and not limitation, a general business license
does not permit:
         (a)   The conduct of any business if the premises to be used for the
business and the proposed conduct of such business do not fully comply with the
requirements of the town’s ordinances;
         (b)   The conduct of any business or performance of any act that would
constitute a violation of the town’s zoning ordinances or land development
code; and
         (c)   The conduct of any business that violates any existing state or
federal statute or municipal ordinance.
(Ord. 05-2015, passed 6-4-2015)
§ 110.08 DENIAL.
   (A)   The Town Clerk may deny an application for a license or for a renewal
upon a determination that:
      (1)   The applicant has failed to supply any of the information required
on the application or by the Town Clerk pursuant to §
110.05;
      (2)   The conduct of the business for which a license is requested would
be in violation of any provision of any town ordinance or state or federal
statute; or
      (3)   The applicant has failed to pay the required license fee.
   (B)   (1)   If the Town Clerk denies a license application under this
section, the Town Clerk shall notify the applicant in writing stating the
specific grounds for the denial.
      (2)   (a)   The applicant may thereafter appeal the denial of the
application by the Town Clerk to the Town Manager, whose decision shall be
final.
         (b)   Any appeal to the Town Manager shall be made in writing within
15 days of the Clerk’s denial of the license.
(Ord. 05-2015, passed 6-4-2015)
§ 110.09 LICENSE CONTENTS.
   (A)   Each license issued pursuant to this subchapter shall be signed by the
Town Clerk under the seal of the town.
   (B)   Each license shall show upon its face the name of the person to whom
it has been issued, the street address where any business is to be carried on,
the amount paid therefor, the year for which such license is issued and any
other information required by this subchapter to be displayed thereon.
(Ord. 05-2015, passed 6-4-2015)
§ 110.10 LICENSE REQUIRED FOR EACH PLACE OF BUSINESS; POSTING AND EXHIBITION.
   (A)   A separate license must be obtained and a separate license fee paid
for each branch, establishment or separate place of business in which a
business is carried on.
   (B)   (1)   Every license for a business to be conducted at a particular
street address shall be posted conspicuously, in public view, at each such
address during the period such license is valid.
      (2)   It shall be the duty of each and every person to whom a license has
been issued by the town to exhibit the same upon the request of any law
enforcement officer, inspector or other officer of the town.
(Ord. 05-2015, passed 6-4-2015) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.11 LICENSE NONTRANSFERABLE.
   No license may be transferred or assigned from one person to another or from
one place to another.
(Ord. 05-2015, passed 6-4-2015) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.12 RENEWALS.
   (A)   (1)   Unless specifically otherwise stated, all annual licenses may be
renewed upon application and payment of the annual license fee to the Town
Clerk.
      (2)   The license will be renewed if there has been no change in the
application information relating to the business. The application for renewal
and the fee therefor shall be submitted to the Town Clerk on or before the
expiration date of the current license.
   (B)   (1)   If the application for renewal and fee therefor are not received
on or before the expiration date of the current license, and the licensee
continues to engage in the business for which the license was issued, then, in
addition to other penalties which may be imposed, a penalty of 10% of the
amount of the license fee shall be added on the last day of each calendar month
after the expiration date.
      (2)   In addition to the above penalty provision, it is unlawful for a
licensee to continue to engage in any business or activity after his or her
license therefor has expired.
(Ord. 05-2015, passed 6-4-2015) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.13 SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION.
   (A)   In addition to any other ordinances of the town, the Town Clerk may
suspend or revoke a license or permit issued under this subchapter:
      (1)   When any money due the town has not been paid. This includes
failure to pay civil penalties, fines, taxes, fees or any other money owed to
the town;
      (2)   When any activity conducted by the licensee or his or her employee
or agent violates any federal, state or local rule, regulation or law; or
      (3)   Upon failure to comply with the terms and conditions of the
license.
   (B)   If the Town Clerk finds one of the grounds in division (A) above, the
Town Clerk shall determine whether to cancel the license, revoke the license
for the remainder of its term or suspend it for any shorter period according to
the severity of:
      (1)   The disqualification;
      (2)   Its effect on public health, safety and welfare; and
      (3)   The time during which the disqualification can be remedied, if at
all.
   (C)   (1)   Before the hearing required in division (D) below, the Town
Clerk may suspend a license for up to 14 days, if the Town Clerk determines
that the suspension is in the interest of public health, safety and welfare.
      (2)   The Town Clerk may include, in the temporary suspension, reasonable
orders or conditions with which the licensee shall comply to protect any work
in progress and the public health and safety.
      (3)   Any breach of such conditions or orders is an independent ground
for suspension or revocation of the license.
   (D)   Except for such emergency suspension authorized by division (C) above,
no such suspension or revocation is final until the licensee has been given the
opportunity for a hearing before the Town Manager to contest the suspension or
revocation.
   (E)   If, after a hearing, the suspension or revocation is upheld, the Town
Manager may include reasonable orders or conditions with which the person whose
license has been suspended or revoked shall comply to protect any work in
progress and the public health, safety and welfare.
   (F)   No person whose license is revoked under this subchapter may receive a
refund of any part of the license fee paid for the license.
   (G)   No person who has had a license suspended or revoked under this
subchapter is entitled to obtain the same or any similar license under the
town’s ordinances during the period of suspension or revocation, either in the
person’s own name or as a principal in another business that applies for a
license.
   (H)   Nothing in this subchapter shall be deemed to prohibit the Town Clerk
or other authority from imposing other penalties authorized by this subchapter
or other ordinance of the town, including filing a complaint in the Municipal
Court for a violation of this subchapter or other ordinance of the town.
(Ord. 05-2015, passed 6-4-2015)
§ 110.14 RETURN OF FEES.
   Upon refusal of any application for a license, or in the event that any
license is suspended or revoked, all monies paid therefor shall be and remain
the monies of the town, and no refund shall be made to any applicant or
licensee.
(Ord. 05-2015, passed 6-4-2015)
CONTRACTORS, SUBCONTRACTORS AND TRADESPERSON LICENSING
§ 110.25 LICENSE OR REGISTRATION REQUIRED.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person, partnership, association, firm,
corporation or other entity to engage in the business of contracting,
subcontracting or as a tradesperson as defined in this subchapter, within the
town without having first obtained a license or registration therefor as
provided in this subchapter.
   (B)   For purposes of this subchapter, the term LICENSE shall include
registration by electrical contractors and plumbing contractors and CONTRACTOR
shall include subcontractors and tradesperson.
(Ord. 06-2015, passed 6-4-2015; Ord. 02-2021, passed 1-27-2021) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.26 EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   Public utility companies are not required to obtain contractor
licenses when engaged in the installation, operation and maintenance of their
equipment used for the production, generation or distribution of the utility,
product or service through facilities owned or operated by the utility company
to the point of customer service.
   (B)   Homeowners residing onsite and doing work on their personal, primary
residence are not considered contractors and are not required to obtain a
contractor license.
(Ord. 06-2015, passed 6-4-2015)
§ 110.27 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CONTRACTOR, SUBCONTRACTOR or TRADESPERSON. A person, corporation, limited
liability company, partnership, association or other organization or entity of
any type, or any combination thereof, who, by themselves or by or through
others, engage in the business, trade, calling, work or occupation in any
building trade, including, but not limited to, the following: general building
contractor; lathing, plaster or drywall; roofing and waterproofing; masonry;
well drilling; excavating; concrete; foundations and caissons; moving; swimming
pool; structural and miscellaneous iron; welder; plumber; electrician; hot
water; pipeline; siding; fencing; glass and glazing; patio and awning; skirting
for mobile homes; temperature controls; tile setting; wrecking; asphalt;
painting; insulators; ditching; grading; drain laying; sod laying; gutter
installation; signs; electrical signs; sprinkler systems; alarms; and fire
protection.
(Ord. 06-2015, passed 6-4-2015)
§ 110.28 LICENSE FEE; TERM.
   The license fee to be charged for each type of contractor license shall be
as established from time to time by resolution of the Board of Trustees except
that no license fee shall be required from electrical and plumbing contractors.
The license fee shall be for the calendar year or any portion thereof, and
shall not be prorated. Licenses are not assignable or transferable and shall be
renewable only upon the submission of a new application in each calendar year
and provided all then-current requirements for the license are fulfilled. The
license fee shall be tendered with the application to the Town Clerk and in no
case shall a license be issued until the required fee has been paid and until
all other requirements of the license as set forth in this subchapter have been
met.
(Ord. 06-2015, passed 6-4-2015; Ord. 02-2021, passed 1-27-2021)
§ 110.29 INSURANCE REQUIRED.
   Each applicant for a license under this subchapter must furnish, with the
application for such license, proof of insurance, current for all times for
which the license is sought, providing for the following minimum coverage:
workers’ compensation insurance in statutory amounts; public liability
insurance not less than $250,000 for injury or death to one person, not less
than $500,000 for injury or death to more than one person in a single accident
or event; and public property damage insurance not less than $125,000 for
damages to or destruction of property for any one accident. Applicants
performing work on or in any town-owned property, including rights-of-way,
shall provide proof of public liability and public property damage insurance
with minimum combined single limits of $1,000,000 each occurrence and
$1,000,000 aggregate. Once the license is issued, the licensee must, at all
times, keep current the insurance required by this section, and failure to do
so may be cause for suspension or revocation of the license.
(Ord. 06-2015, passed 6-4-2015)
§ 110.30 AUTHORITY TO DENY LICENSE.
   (A)   The Town Clerk may deny an application for a license under this
subchapter upon a determination that:
      (1)   The applicant has failed to supply any of the information required
on the application;
      (2)   The applicant has failed to obtain required insurance, valid for
the term of the license period;
      (3)   The applicant has failed to pay the required license fee;
      (4)   The applicant for a plumbing contractor registration or an
electrical contractor registration has not provided evidence of current state
master’s license;
      (5)   The applicant is not qualified by experience, training or education
to engage in the activity authorized by the license; or
      (6)   The applicant has been convicted of an offense, the type of which
tends to demonstrate the applicant would create danger to the public health,
safety or welfare if the applicant were to engage in such unlawful conduct
after the license was issued.
   (B)   (1)   If the Town Clerk denies a license application under this
section, the Town Clerk shall notify the applicant in writing stating the
specific grounds for denial.
      (2)   The applicant may thereafter appeal the denial of the application
by the Town Clerk to the Town Manager.
(Ord. 06-2015, passed 6-4-2015; Ord. 02-2021, passed 1-27-2021)
§ 110.31 LICENSE CHANGES.
   (A)   Change of name or address. The change of name or address by a licensee
shall be reported to the Town Clerk within 15 days after making the change.
   (B)   New license required. A new license shall be obtained within 30 days
after the creation of a new legal entity, even when one or more of the members,
officers or directors have a license.
   (C)   Dissolution. The dissolution of a corporation, partnership or other
legal entity that has been licensed terminates the license and no person may
operate under that license.
(Ord. 06-2015, passed 6-4-2015) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.32 RESPONSIBILITY FOR CONTRACTED WORK.
   (A)   A contractor shall be responsible for all work included in his or her
contract, whether or not such work is done by him or her directly or by a
subcontractor.
   (B)   A contractor shall be responsible for all funds or property received
by him or her for prosecution, for completion of a specific contract or for a
specific purpose.
(Ord. 06-2015, passed 6-4-2015) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.33 SAFETY STANDARDS GENERALLY.
   All state laws, provisions of the town’s ordinances addressing measures for
the safety of workers and the public shall be observed by contractors within
the town, in addition to any requirements contained within this subchapter.
(Ord. 06-2015, passed 6-4-2015) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.34 SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION OF LICENSE.
   (A)   In addition to any other provision of any other ordinances of the
town, the Town Clerk may suspend or revoke a license issued under this
subchapter if:
      (1)   The licensee fails to meet the qualifications required of an
applicant;
      (2)   The licensee violates any provision of this subchapter or any other
ordinance of the town governing the activities permitted by the license;
      (3)   The licensee violates any of the building and safety codes adopted
by the town or fails to obtain a building or other type of permit required to
perform the work;
      (4)   The licensee obtained the license by fraud or misrepresentation; or
      (5)   The licensee’s acts or performance under the license is
unworkmanlike, careless or reckless.
   (B)   Except for an emergency suspension as authorized by division (C)
below, no suspension or revocation shall be imposed until a hearing has been
held before the Town Manager. The licensee shall be given written notice of
such hearing at least ten days in advance, and shall be advised of the specific
grounds for the proposed suspension or revocation. Following the hearing, if
the Town Manager finds one or more grounds support suspension or revocation of
the license, the Town Manager shall determine whether to revoke the license for
the remainder of its term or suspend it for any shorter period, depending on
the severity of the disqualification or violation by the licensee; its effect
on public health, safety and welfare; and the time during which the
disqualification or violation can be remedied, if at all. The Town Manager may
also include reasonable orders or conditions with which the licensee shall
comply to protect any work in progress and the public health and safety.
   (C)   (1)   The Town Manager may summarily suspend a license for up to 14
days if the Town Manager determines that an emergency suspension is in the
interest of public health, safety and welfare.
      (2)   The Town Manager may include in the summary suspension reasonable
orders or conditions with which the licensee shall comply to protect any work
in progress and the public health and safety.
      (3)   Any breach of such conditions or orders is an independent ground
for suspension or revocation of the license.
   (D)   No person whose license is suspended or revoked pursuant to this
subchapter may receive a refund of any part of the license fee paid for the
license.
   (E)   No person who has had a license suspended or revoked pursuant to this
subchapter is entitled to obtain the same or any similar license during the
period of suspension or revocation, either in the person’s own name or as a
principal in another business that applies for a license.
   (F)   Nothing in this section shall be deemed to prohibit the Town Manager
or any other authority from imposing other penalties authorized by any other
ordinances of the town, including filing a complaint in the Municipal Court for
a violation of this subchapter or any other ordinance of the town.
(Ord. 06-2015, passed 6-4-2015)
§ 110.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person convicted of violating any of the provisions of §§
110.01 through
110.14 shall be punished by a fine of not more than $2,650, as shall be
adjusted for inflation from time to time pursuant to C.R.S. § 13-10-113. Each
act or omission in violation of one or more of the provisions of §§
110.01 through
110.14 shall be deemed a separate violation for each and every day that such
act(s) or omission(s) occur.
   (C)   (1)   It shall be unlawful for any contractor to fail to obtain a
permit of inspection services when required.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful for any contractor licensed under §§
110.25 through
110.34 to, without good cause, abandon any contract or undertaking, or to make
material departure from the town-approved plans and specifications for any
contract or undertaking.
      (3)   It shall be unlawful for any contractor licensed under the
provisions of §§
110.25 through
110.34 to violate any provision of §§
110.25 through
110.34; or to refuse to obey any order issued, or neglect to pay any fee
assessed, under authority of §§
110.25 through
110.34.
      (4)   It shall be unlawful for any person to erect, construct, enlarge,
alter, repair, move, improve, convert, demolish, equip, use, occupy or maintain
any building or structure in the town, or to cause such work to be done,
contrary to or in violation of any provision of §§
110.25 through
110.34.
      (5)   It shall be unlawful for a contractor to be careless or negligent
in obtaining minimum safety measures, including appliances, apparatus and
equipment, to protect workers and the public.
      (6)   Any person convicted of violating any of the provisions of §§
110.25 through
110.34 shall be punished by a fine of not more than $2,650, as shall be
adjusted for inflation from time to time pursuant to C.R.S. § 13-10-113 or by
imprisonment for not more than one year or by both such fine and imprisonment.
Each act or omission in violation of one or more of the provisions of §§
110.25 through
110.34 shall be deemed a separate violation for each and every day that such
act(s) or omission(s) occur
(Ord. 05-2015, passed 6-4-2015; Ord. 06-2015, passed 6-4-2015; Ord. 02-2019,
passed 3-27-2019)
CHAPTER 111: PEDDLERS, SOLICITORS AND VENDORS
Section
   
111.01   Purpose of provisions; interpretation
   
111.02   Sale on public property
   
111.03   All solicitations prohibited by posting of “no solicitation” or “no
trespassing” sign
   
111.04   Attempt to obtain
   
111.05   Notice prohibiting solicitors
   
111.06   Board of Trustees approval
 
   
111.99   Penalty
§ 111.01 PURPOSE OF PROVISIONS; INTERPRETATION.
   (A)   The purpose of this chapter is to protect the health, safety and
welfare of the citizens and residents of the town through regulation and
appropriate prohibitions of certain activities of peddlers, solicitors and
vendors.
   (B)   This chapter shall be interpreted liberally so as to effect, to the
extent permitted by law, the prohibitions set forth herein.
(Ord. 5-09, passed - -2009)
§ 111.02 SALES ON PUBLIC PROPERTY.
   No person shall sell or offer for sale any goods, services or any other
thing of value from or upon any street, alley, sidewalk, park or property owned
or controlled by the public or by the town, except as may be authorized by the
Board of Trustees, or its designee.
(Ord. 5-09, passed - -2009; Ord. 12-2018, passed 10- -2018) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.03 ALL SOLICITATIONS PROHIBITED BY POSTING OF “NO SOLICITATION” OR “NO
TRESPASSING” SIGN.
   No person shall enter or remain upon any public or private premises or in
any office building in the town, not having been requested or invited by the
occupant thereof, for the purpose of soliciting the immediate or future
purchase or sale of goods, services or any other thing of value, or for the
purpose of soliciting any gift or donation, when a “No Solicitation” sign or
“No Trespassing” sign is posted at or near the entrance to such premises. This
provision shall apply to all solicitations, including, without limitation,
those that are by a bona fide religious, charitable, school and civic
organization or other organization eligible for exemption under I.R.C. § 501
(c).
(Ord. 5-09, passed - -2009) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.04 ATTEMPT TO OBTAIN.
   No person shall attempt to obtain, by telephone or otherwise, an invitation
to visit any private residence or other private or public premises or office
building within the town for the purpose of soliciting the purchase or sale of
goods, services or any other thing of value, by knowingly making a false or
deceptive representation or statement.
(Ord. 5-09, passed - -2009) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.05 NOTICE PROHIBITING SOLICITORS.
   Every resident and business within the town shall have the right to post a
notice or notices upon the private property of such resident or business to the
effect that peddlers, solicitors and vendors shall not enter the premises or
solicit or attempt to solicit orders or sales from the owners or occupants
thereof. Any person who shall go in or upon any place so posted without
previous invitation to do so from the occupant thereof is guilty of an unlawful
act.
(Ord. 5-09, passed - -2009) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.06 BOARD OF TRUSTEES APPROVAL.
   The Board of Trustees shall have the power to grant the privilege of
conducting the activities described in §
111.02 pursuant to request, competitive bid or otherwise as the Board of
Trustees may from time to time determine. Such privilege shall be upon such
terms and conditions as the Board of Trustees deems appropriate to avoid an
excess of vendors, derive revenue for the town, address public health and
safety concerns and to serve the public need.
(Ord. 5-09, passed - -2009)
§ 111.99 PENALTY.
   Any person convicted of a violation of this chapter shall be punished as
provided in §
10.99 of this code.
CHAPTER 112: LIQUOR
Section
General Provisions
   
112.01   State laws to apply
   
112.02   Licensing Authority
   
112.03   Application requirements
   
112.04   Restrictions for applications for new liquor license
   
112.05   Special events permit
Liquor Tasting
   
112.20   Permit required
   
112.21   Application and fee
   
112.22   Limitations on tastings
   112.23   Responsibility for violations
   
112.24   Revocation, suspension and enforcement; hearings
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 112.01 STATE LAWS TO APPLY.
   The Colorado Liquor Code, and all related rules and regulations, shall apply
to liquor licensing applications, proceedings and suspension and revocations.
§ 112.02 LICENSING AUTHORITY.
   (A)   The local licensing authority (the “Authority”) for the town shall be
the Board of Trustees.
   (B)   The Town Clerk shall assist the Authority by receiving all
applications; coordinating with other town officers and departments when
relevant; and scheduling required public hearings.
§ 112.03 APPLICATION REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   All applications for licensing actions shall be filed with the Town
Clerk on prescribed forms, together with applicable fees.
   (B)   The fees payable for each type of application shall be as established
by Board of Trustees from time to time by resolution.
§ 112.04 RESTRICTIONS FOR APPLICATIONS FOR NEW LIQUOR LICENSE.
   (A)   Notwithstanding any provision of the Colorado Revised Statutes to the
contrary, any building in which malt, vinous or spiritous liquor is to be sold,
located 300 feet or more from any public or parochial school or the principal
campus of any college, university or seminary school, shall be eligible for
licensing.
   (B)   The provisions of this section shall apply to all types of liquor
licenses.
§ 112.05 SPECIAL EVENTS PERMIT.
   The Authority may issue a special event permit for the sale of malt,
spirituous or vinous liquor to organizations qualifying under C.R.S. §§ 44-45-
101 et seq. The Authority may elect to issue special events permits without
notifying the State Licensing Authority to obtain its approval or disapproval
of applications for special events permits.
LIQUOR TASTING
§ 112.20 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   The town hereby authorizes tastings to be conducted by retail liquor
store licensees, liquor licensed drugstores and fermented malt beverage and
wine retailers in accordance with this section and pursuant to C.R.S. § 44-3-
301.
      (B)   Within the town, it is unlawful for any person or licensee to
conduct tastings unless a permit has been obtained in accordance with this
section. The local licensing authority is authorized to issue tasting permits
in accordance with the requirements of this section.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 112.21 APPLICATION AND FEE.
   (A)   A licensee that wishes to conduct tastings shall submit an application
for a tastings permit to the local licensing authority annually.
   (B)   The local licensing authority may reject the permit application if the
applicant fails to establish that the licensee is able to conduct tastings
without violating the provisions of this section or creating a public safety
risk to the neighborhood.
   (C)   The Town Clerk and local licensing authority may establish application
procedures for tastings permits. Each application shall be accompanied by a fee
in an amount set by the Town Board.
§ 112.22 LIMITATIONS ON TASTINGS.
   Tastings shall be subject to the following limitations.
   (A)   Tastings shall be conducted only by a person who has completed a
server training program that meets the standards established by the Liquor
Enforcement Division of the Colorado Department of Revenue and only on a
licensee’s licensed premises.
   (B)   The alcohol used in tastings shall be purchased through a licensed
wholesaler, licensed brew pub, licensed distillery pub or winery licensed
pursuant to C.R.S. § 44-3-403, at a cost that is not less than the laid in cost
of such alcohol. Such suppliers shall have licenses from the town to the extent
required by this section and C.R.S. § 44-3-301.
   (C)   The size of an individual alcohol sample shall not exceed one ounce of
malt or vinous liquor or one-half of one ounce of spirituous liquor.
   (D)   Tastings shall not exceed a total of five hours in duration per day,
which need not be consecutive.
   (E)   Tastings shall be conducted only during the operating hours in which
the licensee on whose premises the tastings occur is permitted to sell alcohol
beverages, and in no case earlier than 11:00 a.m. or later than 9:00 p.m.
   (F)   The licensee shall prohibit patrons from leaving the licensed premises
with an unconsumed sample.
   (G)   The licensee shall promptly remove all open and unconsumed alcohol
beverage samples from the licensed premises or shall destroy the samples
immediately following the completion of the tasting.
   (H)   The licensee shall not serve a person who is under 21 years of age or
who is visibly intoxicated.
   (I)   The licensee shall not serve more than four individual samples to a
patron during a tasting.
   (J)   Alcohol samples shall be in open containers and shall be provided to a
patron free of charge.
   (K)   Tastings may occur on no more than 156 days per year.
   (L)   No manufacturer of spirituous or vinous liquors shall induce a
licensee through free goods or financial or in-kind assistance to favor the
manufacturer’s products being sampled at a tasting. The licensee shall bear the
financial and all other responsibility for a tasting.
   (M)   The applicant for a tastings permit shall certify on the application
that all persons serving alcohol at tastings have completed a server training
program that meets the standards established by the Liquor Enforcement Division
of the Colorado Department of Revenue.
§ 112.24 RESPONSIBILITY FOR VIOLATIONS.
   A violation of a limitation specified in this subchapter or of C.R.S. §§ 44-
3-301(10) or 44-3-901 by a licensee, whether by the licensee, the licensee’s
employees or agents or otherwise shall be the responsibility of the licensee
who is conducting the tasting.
§ 112.25 REVOCATION, SUSPENSION AND ENFORCEMENT; HEARINGS.
   A licensee conducting a tasting shall be subject to the same revocation,
suspension and enforcement provisions as otherwise apply to the licensee and
are imposed by the local licensing authority. The local licensing authority
shall conduct a hearing with regard to any violations of this section in
accordance with the requirements of this code, the authority’s bylaws and rules
of procedure and C.R.S § 44-3-601.
CHAPTER 113: MARIJUANA
Section
Medical Marijuana Businesses
   
113.01   Definitions
   
113.02   Medical marijuana businesses prohibited
   
113.03   Patients and primary caregivers
Retail Marijuana Businesses
   
113.15   Definitions
   
113.16   Retail marijuana businesses prohibited
   
113.17   Personal use of marijuana
 
   
113.99   Penalty
MEDICAL MARIJUANA BUSINESSES
§ 113.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   MEDICAL MARIJUANA. Marijuana that is grown and sold for a purpose authorized
by Article XVIII, § 14 of the Colorado Constitution.
   MEDICAL MARIJUANA BUSINESS. A medical marijuana store, medical marijuana
products manufacturer, or a medical marijuana cultivation facility.
   MEDICAL MARIJUANA PRODUCTS MANUFACTURER. Shall have the same meaning as is
set forth in C.R.S. § 44-10-103, as amended from time to time.
   MEDICAL MARIJUANA STORE. Shall have the same meaning as is set forth in
C.R.S. § 44-10-103, as amended from time to time, but shall not include a
PRIMARY CAREGIVER.
   OPTIONAL PREMISES CULTIVATION FACILITY. Shall have the same meaning as is
set forth in C.R.S. § 43.4-104(12), as amended from time to time.
   PATIENT. Shall have the same meaning as is set forth in Article XVIII, § 14
(1)(c) of the Colorado Constitution.
   PRIMARY CAREGIVER. Shall have the same meaning as is set forth in Article
XVIII, § 14(1)(f) of the Colorado Constitution.
(Ord. 7-10, passed 12-8-2010)
§ 113.02 MEDICAL MARIJUANA BUSINESSES PROHIBITED.
   It is unlawful for any person to operate, cause to be operated or permit to
be operated in the town a medical marijuana business.
(Ord. 7-10, passed 12-8-2010) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.03 PATIENTS AND PRIMARY CAREGIVERS.
   Nothing in this subchapter shall be construed to prohibit, regulate or
otherwise impair the protections of the use of medical marijuana by patients,
as provided in Article XVIII, § 14 of the Colorado Constitution, or the
provision of medical marijuana by a primary caregiver to a patient in
accordance with Article XVIII, § 14 of the Colorado Constitution, the Colorado
Marijuana Code and rules promulgated thereunder.
(Ord. 7-10, passed 12-8-2010)
RETAIL MARIJUANA BUSINESSES
§ 113.15 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   RETAIL MARIJUANA BUSINESS. A retail marijuana cultivation facility, retail
marijuana testing facility, a retail marijuana products manufacturer, or a
retail marijuana store.
   RETAIL MARIJUANA CULTIVATION FACILITY. An entity licensed to cultivate,
prepare and package marijuana and sell marijuana to retail marijuana stores, to
marijuana product manufacturing facilities and to other marijuana cultivation
facilities, but not to consumers.
   RETAIL MARIJUANA PRODUCTS MANUFACTURER. An entity licensed to purchase
marijuana; manufacture, prepare, and package marijuana products; and sell
marijuana and marijuana products to other marijuana product manufacturing
facilities and to retail marijuana stores, but not to consumers.
   RETAIL MARIJUANA STORE. An entity licensed to purchase marijuana from
marijuana cultivation facilities and marijuana and marijuana products from
marijuana product manufacturing facilities and to sell marijuana and marijuana
products to consumers.
   RETAIL MARIJUANA TESTING FACILITY. An entity licensed to analyze and certify
the safety and potency of marijuana.
§ 113.16 RETAIL MARIJUANA BUSINESSES PROHIBITED.
   It is unlawful for any person to operate, cause to be operated or permit to
be operated in the town a retail marijuana business.
Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.17 PERSONAL USE OF MARIJUANA.
   Nothing in this subchapter shall be construed to prohibit, regulate or
otherwise impair the protections for the personal use of marijuana as provided
in Article XVIII, § 16(3) of the Colorado Constitution.
§ 113.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter shall be subject to
§
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   The operation of a medical marijuana business or a retail marijuana
business may be enjoined by the town in an action brought in a court of
competent jurisdiction.
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   OFFENSES AGAINST PROPERTY
      
131.   OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC AUTHORITY
      
132.   OFFENSES AGAINST PERSONS
      
133.   OFFENSES AGAINST PEACE
      
134.   OFFENSES INVOLVING MINORS
CHAPTER 130: OFFENSES AGAINST PROPERTY
Section
General Provisions
   
130.01   Railroads impeding traffic
Property Protection
   
130.15   Theft
   
130.16   Theft of services
   
130.17   Fraud by check
   
130.18   Trespass
   
130.19   Criminal mischief
   
130.20   Defacing public property
   
130.21   Littering
 
   
130.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 130.01 RAILROADS IMPEDING TRAFFIC.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any railroad company operating any railroad in or
through any portion of the town to suffer or allow any part of any train, car
or engines, or any other devices under the control of said company, to block,
hinder or impede traffic at any place in the town where any street crosses said
company’s tracks for any period exceeding ten minutes.
   (B)   Furthermore, it shall also be unlawful for any conductor or engineer
upon such train to suffer or allow said train to block, hinder or impede
traffic as aforesaid.
(Ord. 4-93, passed 10-27-1993) Penalty, see §
130.99
PROPERTY PROTECTION
§ 130.15 THEFT.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly obtain or exercise control over anything of
value of less than $2,000 of another without authorization or by threat or
deception, and:
      (1)   Intend to deprive the other person permanently of the use or
benefit of the thing of value;
      (2)   Knowingly use, conceal or abandon the thing of value in such a
manner as to deprive the other person permanently of its use or benefit;
      (3)   Use, conceal or abandon the thing of value intending that such use,
concealment or abandonment will deprive the other person permanently of its use
and benefit; or
      (4)   Demand any consideration to which he or she is not legally entitled
as a condition of restoring the thing of value to the other person.
   (B)   For purposes of this section, if any person willfully conceals
unpurchased goods, wares or merchandise owned or held by and offered or
displayed for sale by any store or other mercantile establishment, whether the
concealment is on his or her own person or otherwise and whether on or off the
premises of said store or mercantile establishment, such concealment
constitutes prima facie evidence that the person intended to commit the crime
of theft.
(Ord. 4-07, passed 12-12-2007) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.16 THEFT OF SERVICES.
   (A)   A person commits theft of services if:
      (1)   The person obtains services known by that person to be available
only for compensation by deception, force, threat or other means to avoid
payment for the services;
      (2)   Having control over the disposition of service to which the person
is not entitled, the person knowingly diverts those services to the person’s
own benefits or to the benefit of another not entitled to them;
      (3)   The person connects any pipe, tube, stopcock, wire, cord, socket,
motor or other instruments or contrivance with any main service pipe, or other
medium conducting or supplying gas, water or electricity to any building
without the knowledge and consent of the person supplying such gas, water or
electricity;
      (4)   The person, in any manner, tampers, alters, obstructs or interferes
with the action of any meter provided for measuring or registering the quantity
of gas, water or electricity passing through the meter without the knowledge
and consent of the person owning the meter;
      (5)   The person obtains cable service or satellite service from a cable
operator or satellite operator by trick, artifice, deception, use of an
unauthorized device or decoder or other means without authorization or with the
intent to deprive such cable operator of lawful compensation for the services
rendered;
      (6)   The person makes or maintains, without authority from or payment
to, a cable operator or a satellite operator, a connection or connections,
whether physical, electrical, mechanical, acoustical or otherwise, with any
cable, wire, component or other device used for the distribution of cable
services or satellite services;
      (7)   The person modifies, alters or maintains a modification or
alteration to a device installed, or capable of being installed, with the
authorization of a cable operator or satellite operator, which modification or
alteration is for the purpose of intercepting or receiving cable service
carried by such cable operator or satellite operator, without authority from or
payment to, such cable operator or satellite operator;
      (8)   The person possesses, without authority, with the intent to receive
cable operator or satellite operator services without authorization from or
payment to a cable operator or satellite operator, a device or printed circuit
board designed in whole or in part to facilitate the following acts:
         (a)   To receive cable services or satellite services offered for sale
over a cable system or satellite system; or
         (b)   To perform or facilitate the performance of any acts set forth
in divisions (A)(5) through (A)(7) above.
      (9)   The person fails to return or surrender equipment used to receive
cable service or satellite service and provided by a cable operator or
satellite operator, after such service has been terminated for any reason.
   (B)   As used in this section, SERVICES include, but are not limited to, any
public utility services (to include, but not be limited to, sewer, wastewater,
electric, water, cable, satellite, telephone, gas or trash services); private
or public transportation services; public or private hotel or lodging services;
and public or private restaurant, food or beverages services, including the
cost of food or beverage.
   (C)   Proof that the services were obtained by false pretenses, or that the
person refused or neglected to pay for these things on demand, is prima facie
evidence of the fraudulent intent required in division (A) above.
   (D)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to apply to any licensed
electrical or plumbing contractor while performing usual and ordinary services
in accordance with recognized customs and standards.
(Ord. 4-07, passed 12-12-2007) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.17 FRAUD BY CHECK.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      CHECK. A written, unconditional order to pay a sum certain in money,
drawn on a bank, savings and loan association, industrial bank or credit union
payable on demand, and signed by the drawer. CHECK, for the purpose of this
section only, also includes a negotiable order withdrawal and a share draft.
      DRAWEE. The bank upon which a check is drawn on or a bank, savings and
loan association, industrial bank or credit union on which a negotiable order
of withdrawal or a share draft is drawn.
      DRAWER. A person, either real or fictitious, whose name appears on a
check as the primary obligator, whether the actual signature be that of himself
or herself or of a person authorized to draw the check on such person.
      INSUFFICIENT FUNDS. A drawer has INSUFFICIENT FUNDS with the drawee to
pay a check when the drawer has no checking account, negotiable order of
withdrawal account or share draft account with the drawee or has funds in such
an account with the drawee in an amount less than the amount of the check, plus
the amount of all other checks outstanding at the time of issuance; and a check
dishonored for “no account” shall also be deemed to be dishonored for
INSUFFICIENT FUNDS.
      ISSUE. A person issues a check when he or she makes, draws, delivers or
passes it or causes it to be made, drawn, delivered or passed.
      NEGOTIABLE ORDER OF WITHDRAWAL and SHARE DRAFT. Negotiable or
transferable instruments drawn on a negotiable order of withdrawal account or
share draft account, as the case may be, for the purpose of making payments to
third persons or otherwise.
      NEGOTIABLE ORDER OF WITHDRAWAL ACCOUNT. An account in a bank, savings and
loan association or industrial bank and SHARE DRAFT ACCOUNT means an account in
a credit union, on which payment of interest or dividends may be made on a
deposit with respect to which the bank, savings and loan association or
industrial bank or the credit union, as the case may be, may require the
depositor to give notice of an intended withdrawal not less than 30 days before
the withdrawal is made, even though in practice such notice is not required and
the depositor is allowed to make withdrawal by negotiable order of withdrawal
or share draft.
   (B)   (1)   It shall be unlawful to commit fraud by check. Any person,
knowing he or she has insufficient funds with the drawee, who, with intent to
defraud, issues a check for the payment of services, wages, salary, commission,
labor, rent, money, property or other things of value commits fraud by check.
      (2)   This section shall only apply when the fraudulent check was for a
sum less than $2,000, and where the offender has not been twice previously
convicted under C.R.S. § 18-5-205, as amended, or a former or successor
statutes of the state of similar content and purport.
   (C)   A bank, a savings and loan association, an industrial bank or a credit
union shall not be civilly or criminally liable for releasing information
relating to the drawer’s account to any police officer, the Town Attorney or
authorized investigators for the Town Attorney investigating or prosecuting a
charge under this section.
   (E)   This section does not relieve the prosecution from the necessity of
establishing the required culpable mental state. However, for the purpose of
prosecution under this section, the issuer’s knowledge of insufficient funds is
presumed, except in the case of a postdated check or order, if:
      (1)   He or she has no account upon which the check or order is drawn
with the bank or other drawee at the time he or she issues the check or order;
or
      (2)   He or she has insufficient funds upon deposit with the bank or
other drawee to pay the check or order on presentation within 30 days after the
issue.
   (F)   In addition to any other court costs, a defendant who pleads guilty or
nolo contendere to, or who enters into a plea agreement for, or who, after
trial, is found guilty of a violation of this section, shall be assessed
additional court costs of $25 to defray the costs of the town pertaining to the
enforcement of this section. Subject to appropriations and budgeting as
provided by law, such amounts may be used to defray the costs of police related
equipment of this section.
   (G)   If a plea agreement is approved, or if the defendant pleads guilty or
nolo contendere to, or who, after trial, is found guilty of a violation of this
section, the court, as a condition of any sentence, may require the defendant
to make restitution on all checks issued by the defendant which are unpaid as
of the date of sentencing, in addition to other terms and conditions
appropriate for the treatment or rehabilitation of the defendant.
(Ord. 4-07, passed 12-12-2007) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.18 TRESPASS.
   (A)   (1)   No person shall enter or remain in or upon the land or premises
of another in defiance of a legal request or order to leave by the owner or
some other authorized person or enter into or remain upon the land or premises
of another that is posted, locked or otherwise fenced or enclosed in a manner
designed to exclude intruders such that a reasonably prudent person would
understand that the owner or tenant does not want such person on the land or in
the premises or building.
      (2)   This section shall not apply to the dwelling unit of another or
when a person trespasses with intent to commit a felony upon such property or
premises.
   (B)   No person shall enter any motor vehicle of another without the
permission of the owner. It is a specific defense to a charge for the entry
that the entry was for a brief period of time to secure the vehicle from harm,
or was directed or authorized by a public official.
   (C)   (1)   No person shall climb on any building or other structure
belonging to the town or any other government entity, including, but not
limited to, the school district, the county or the state, or under the control
of the town or such governmental entity, or any portion thereof not designed
for such activity, or any shrub or tree growing on town property or the
property of such governmental entity, or attach or secure any object to the
property of the town not specifically designed for such purpose without first
obtaining authorization from the Town Manager.
      (2)   No person shall enter any property belonging to the town or any
other government entity, including, but not limited to, the school district,
the county or the state, or under the possession and control of the town or
such governmental entity that is fenced or otherwise enclosed in a manner
designed to exclude intruders or is posted with signs that forbid entry.
(Ord. 4-07, passed 12-12-2007) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.19 CRIMINAL MISCHIEF.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly damage, destroy, injure or deface the real
or personal property of another.
   (B)   This section shall not apply where the damage to the real or personal
property, in the course of a single criminal episode, is $2,000 or more, is
effected by means of fire or explosives or is otherwise feloniously caused.
(Ord. 4-07, passed 12-12-2007) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.20 DEFACING PUBLIC PROPERTY.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to knowingly or recklessly cut,
scrape, mark, deface, disfigure or, in any manner, injure any part or portion
of pavement, curb, sidewalk, light standard, wiring poles, light lamp or globe,
public buildings or other public property within the town.
   (B)   The commission of any act prohibited in division (A) above is hereby
declared a nuisance and the town, through its Police Department, shall have the
right immediately upon the commission of any such act, to summarily abate such
nuisance by repairing or causing to be repaired any injury or damage done
specified in division (A) above and have a right to seek restitution against
the person guilty of such violation or guilty of a plea agreement or deferred
sentence relating to same for amount of the expenses incident to making such
repair together.
(Ord. 4-07, passed 12-12-2007) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.21 LITTERING.
   (A)   Any person who deposits, throws or leaves any litter on any public or
private property or in any waters commits littering.
   (B)   As used in this section, the term LITTER means all rubbish, waste
material, refuse, garbage, debris or other foreign substances, solid or liquid
of every form, size, kind and description; and the phrase PUBLIC OR PRIVATE
PROPERTY includes, but is not limited to, the right-of-way of any road or
highway; body of water or water course, including frozen areas or the shores
thereof; any park, playground or building; a refuge, conservation or recreation
area; and any residential, farm or ranch properties or timber lands.
(Ord. 4-07, passed 12-12-2007) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.99 PENALTY.
   Any person convicted of a violation of this chapter shall be punished as
provided in §
10.99 of this code.
CHAPTER 131: OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC AUTHORITY
Section
   
131.01   Escape from custody
   
131.02   Resisting arrest
   
131.03   Obstructing police officers
   
131.04   Refusing to aid a police officer
   
131.05   Impersonating a police officer or public servant
   
131.06   False reporting
   
131.07   Violations of a restraining order
 
   
131.99   Penalty
§ 131.01 ESCAPE FROM CUSTODY.
   It is unlawful for any person who is lawfully confined or detained in the
custody of or otherwise lawfully restrained by the town or its agents to
knowingly escape or absent himself or herself from custody.
(Ord. 2-05, passed 4-13-2005) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.02 RESISTING ARREST.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to knowingly prevent, or attempt to
prevent, a police officer, acting under color of his or her official authority,
from affecting an arrest of the actor or another by:
   (A)   Using or threatening to use physical force or violence against the
police officer or another; or
   (B)   Using any other means which creates a substantial risk of causing
bodily injury to the police officer or another.
(Ord. 2-05, passed 4-13-2005) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.03 OBSTRUCTING POLICE OFFICERS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to use, or threatening to use, violence,
force, physical interference or an obstacle to knowingly obstruct, impair or
hinder the following:
   (A)   Enforcement of the law or the preservation of the peace by a police
officer;
   (B)   The prevention, control or abatement of fire by a firefighter;
   (C)   The administration of medical treatment or emergency assistance by an
emergency medical service provider or rescue specialist;
   (D)   The administration of emergency care or assistance by a volunteer,
acting in good faith to render such care or assistance at the scene of an
emergency or accident; or
   (E)   Hinders the performance of a governmental function by a public
servant.
(Ord. 2-05, passed 4-13-2005) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.04 REFUSING TO AID A POLICE OFFICER.
   A person, 18 years of age or older, commits an unlawful act when, upon
command by a person known to him or her to be a police officer, he or she
unreasonably refuses or fails to aid the police officer in effecting or
securing an arrest or preventing the commission by another of any offense.
(Ord. 2-05, passed 4-13-2005) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.05 IMPERSONATING A POLICE OFFICER OR PUBLIC SERVANT.
   It shall be unlawful for a person to falsely pretend to be a police officer
or a public servant and perform an act in that pretended capacity. It is no
defense under this section that the office the actor pretended to hold did not,
in fact, exist.
(Ord. 2-05, passed 4-13-2005) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.06 FALSE REPORTING.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to commit false reporting to authorities.
   (B)   A person commits false reporting to authorities if he or she:
      (1)   Knowingly causes a false alarm of fire or other emergency to be
transmitted to or within a fire department, ambulance service or any other
government agency which deals with emergencies involving danger to life or
property;
      (2)   Makes a report, or knowingly causes the transmission of a report,
to law enforcement authorities of a crime or other incident within their
official concern when he or she knows that it did not occur;
      (3)   Makes a report or knowingly causes the transmission of a report to
law enforcement authorities pretending to furnish information relating to an
offense or other incident within their official concern when he or she knows
that he or she has no such information or knows that the information is false;
or
      (4)   Knowingly provides false identifying information to law enforcement
authorities.
(Ord. 2-05, passed 4-13-2005) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.07 VIOLATIONS OF A RESTRAINING ORDER.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      PROTECTED PERSON. The person or persons identified in the restraining
order as the person or persons for whose benefit the restraining order was
issued.
      RESTRAINING ORDER. Any civil or criminal restraining or protection order
that prohibits the restrained person from contacting, harassing, injuring,
intimidating, molesting, threatening or touching any protected person; or from
entering or remaining on premises; or from coming within a specified distance
of a protected person or premises or any other provision to protect the
protected person from imminent danger to life or health, that is issued by a
court of competent jurisdiction. The term RESTRAINING ORDER also includes any
order that amends, modifies, supplements or supersedes the initial restraining
order.
   (B)   Violations. It shall be unlawful for any person to commit the offense
of violating a restraining order. A person commits the offense of violating a
restraining order if such person contacts, harasses, injures, intimidates,
molests, threatens or touches any protected person; enters or remains on
premises; comes within a specified distance of a protected person or premises;
or violates any other provision of a restraining order to protect the protected
person from imminent danger to life or health, and such conduct is prohibited
by a restraining order, after such person has been personally served with any
such order or otherwise has acquired from the court actual knowledge of the
contents of any such order.
(Ord. 2-05, passed 4-13-2005) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.99 PENALTY.
   Any person convicted of a violation of this chapter shall be punished as
provided in §
10.99 of this code.
CHAPTER 132: OFFENSES AGAINST PERSONS
Section
   
132.01   Harassment
   
132.02   Harassment; place of occurrence
   
132.03   Assault
 
   
132.99   Penalty
§ 132.01 HARASSMENT.
   A person commits the offense of harassment if, with intent to harass, annoy
or alarm another person, he or she:
   (A)   Strikes, shoves, kicks or otherwise touches a person or subjects him
or her to physical contact;
   (B)   In a public place directs obscene language or makes an obscene gesture
to or at another person;
   (C)   Follows a person in or about a public place;
   (D)   Directly or indirectly initiates communication with a person or
directs language toward another person, anonymously or otherwise, by telephone,
telephone network, data network, text message, instant message, computer,
computer network, computer system or other interactive electronic medium in a
manner intended to harass or threaten bodily injury or property damage, or
makes any comment, request, suggestion or proposal by telephone, computer,
computer network, computer system or other interactive electronic medium that
is obscene;
   (E)   Makes a telephone call or causes a telephone to ring repeatedly,
whether or not a conversation ensues, with no purpose or legitimate
conversation;
   (F)   Makes repeated communications at inconvenient hours that invade the
privacy of another and interferes in the use and enjoyment of another’s home or
private residence or other private property; or
   (G)   Repeatedly insults, taunts, challenges or makes communications in
offensively coarse language to another in a manner likely to provoke a violent
or disorderly response.
(Ord. 2-95, passed 2-22-1995) Penalty, see §
132.99
§ 132.02 HARASSMENT; PLACE OF OCCURRENCE.
   Any act prohibited by §
132.01(D) may be deemed to have occurred or to have been committed at the place
at which the telephone call, electronic mail or other electronic communication
was either made or received.
(Ord. 2-95, passed 2-22-1995)
§ 132.03 ASSAULT.
   A person commits the offense of assault if he or she knowingly or recklessly
causes bodily injury to another person.
(Ord. 3-95, passed 2-22-1995) Penalty, see §
132.99
§ 132.99 PENALTY.
   Any person convicted of a violation of this chapter shall be punished as
provided in §
10.99 of this code.
CHAPTER 133: OFFENSES AGAINST PEACE
Section
   
133.01   Breach of peace
   
133.02   Open containers of alcoholic beverages
   
133.03   Disorderly conduct
 
   
133.99   Penalty
§ 133.01 BREACH OF PEACE.
   (A)   No person in the town shall disturb, tend to disturb or aid in
disturbing the peace of another person by unreasonably loud or unusual noises;
or by disorderly or boisterous conduct; or by playing of music or making other
sounds or noises so as to disturb the peace and quiet of the neighborhood; or
by the use of abusive, profane, obscene, vulgar or indecent language; or by
threatening, quarreling, challenging to fight or fighting; or by lewd or
indecent acts or any other acts contrary to the public morals.
   (B)   Any person who violates any of the forgoing provisions shall be guilty
of a misdemeanor.
(Ord. 4-98, passed 9-9-1998) Penalty, see §
133.99
§ 133.02 OPEN CONTAINERS OF ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to possess or carry any open container
of any fermented malt beverage, malt, vinous or spiritous liquor in any public
park or any public street, sidewalk, alley or other public way in the town or
in any vehicle or conveyance thereon, or on the grounds of any public school in
the town.
(Ord. 1-86, passed 2-5-1986) Penalty, see §
133.99
§ 133.03 DISORDERLY CONDUCT.
   A person commits disorderly conduct if he or she intentionally, knowingly or
recklessly:
   (A)   Makes a coarse or obviously offensive utterance; displays or uses
abusive, indecent, profane or vulgar language in a public place and the
language, gesture or display by its very nature tends to incite an immediate
breach of peace;
   (B)   Abuses, threatens or annoys others in an obviously offensive manner in
a public place and such action, by its very nature, tends to incite an
immediate breach of the peace;
   (C)   Makes, aids or assists in making any unreasonably loud or raucous
noise in a public place or near a private residence that he or she has no right
to occupy and such noise by its very nature tends to incite an immediate breach
of the peace;
   (D)   Is found in any public place under the influence of intoxicating
liquor or drug in such a condition that he or she is unable to exercise care
for his or her safety or others or interferes with or obstructs the use of
public streets and which, under the circumstances, creates a clear and present
danger of a breach of peace;
   (E)   Fights with another in a public place, except in an amateur or
professional contest of athletic skill, and such fight, by its very nature,
creates a clear and present danger of a breach of peace or imminent threat of
violence;
   (F)   Fails to obey a lawful order of dispersal by a person known by him or
her to be a police officer under circumstances where three or more persons are
committing acts which are likely to cause substantial harm or serious
inconvenience, annoyance or alarm to another and which creates a clear and
present danger of a breach of peace or imminent threat of violence; or
   (G)   Not being a police officer, displays a deadly weapon in a public place
in a manner calculated to cause alarm, substantial harm, serious inconvenience
or annoyance and which under the circumstances creates a clear and present
danger of a breach of peace or imminent threat of violence.
(Ord. 3-79, passed 6-6-1979) Penalty, see §
133.99
§ 133.99 PENALTY.
   Any person convicted of a violation of this chapter shall be punished as
provided in §
10.99 of this code.
CHAPTER 134: OFFENSES INVOLVING MINORS
Section
Alcohol to Minors
   
134.01   Definitions
   
134.02   Illegal possession or consumption by person under 21
   
134.03   Sale to person under 21
   
134.04   Affirmative defense
   
134.05   Religious defense
   
134.06   Prima facie evidence
   
134.07   Labels
   
134.08   Parental permission
   
134.09   Prosecution
   
134.10   Tests
   
134.11   Trials
   
134.12   Sealing of the case
Curfew
   
134.25   Declaration
   
134.26   Definitions
   
134.27   Curfew
   
134.28   Responsibility of parents
 
   
134.99   Penalty
ALCOHOL TO MINORS
§ 134.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ESTABLISHMENT. A business, firm, enterprise, service or fraternal
organization, club, institution, entity, group or residence and any real
property, including buildings and improvements, connected therewith, and shall
also include any members, employees and occupants associated therewith.
   ETHYL ALCOHOL. Any substance which is or contains ethyl alcohol.
   POSSESSION OF ETHYL ALCOHOL. A person has or holds any amount of ethyl
alcohol anywhere on his or her person, or that a person owns or has custody of
ethyl alcohol, or has ethyl alcohol within his or her immediate presence and
control.
   PRIVATE PROPERTY.
      (1)   Any dwelling and its curtilage which is being used by a natural
person or natural persons for habitation and which is not open to the public
and privately owned real property which is not open to the public.
      (2)   PRIVATE PROPERTY shall not include:
         (a)   Any establishment which has or is required to have a license
pursuant to C.R.S. Title 44, Article 3, 4 or 5;
         (b)   Any establishment which sells ethyl alcohol or upon which ethyl
alcohol is sold; or
         (c)   Any establishment which leases, rents or provides accommodations
to members of the public generally.
(Ord. 11-95, passed 10-25-1995)
§ 134.02 ILLEGAL POSSESSION OR CONSUMPTION BY PERSON UNDER 21.
   (A)   Any person under 21 years of age who possesses or consumes ethyl
alcohol anywhere in the town commits illegal possession or consumption of ethyl
alcohol by an underage person.
   (B)   Illegal possession or consumption of ethyl alcohol by an underage
person is a strict liability offense.
(Ord. 11-95, passed 10-25-1995) Penalty, see §
134.99
§ 134.03 SALE TO PERSON UNDER 21.
   Any person, except a person or establishment which has or is required to
have a license, pursuant to C.R.S. Title 44, Article 3, 4 or 5, who sells,
serves, gives away, disposes of, exchanges, provides, furnishes, supplies or
delivers ethyl alcohol to any person under 21 years of age commits the crime of
furnishing ethyl alcohol to an underage person. Furnishing of ethyl alcohol to
an underage person is a strict liability offense.
(Ord. 11-95, passed 10-25-1995) Penalty, see §
134.99
§ 134.04 AFFIRMATIVE DEFENSE.
   It shall be an affirmative defense to the offenses described in §§
134.02 and
134.03 that the ethyl alcohol was possessed or consumed by a person under 21
years of age, or furnished to an underaged person, under the following
circumstances:
   (A)   While such person was legally upon private property with the knowledge
and consent of the owner or legal possessor of such property and the ethyl
alcohol was possessed or consumed with the consent of his or her parent or
legal guardian who was present during such possession or consumption; or
   (B)   When the existence of ethyl alcohol in a person’s body was due solely
to the ingestion of a confectionery which contained ethyl alcohol within the
limits prescribed by C.R.S. § 25-5-410(1)(i)(II); or the ingestion of any
substance which was manufactured, designed or intended primarily for a purpose
other than human ingestion; or the ingestion of any substance which was
manufactured, designed or intended solely for medicinal or hygienic purposes;
or solely from the ingestion of a beverage which contained less than 0.5% of
ethyl alcohol by weight.
(Ord. 11-95, passed 10-25-1995)
§ 134.05 RELIGIOUS DEFENSE.
   The possession or consumption or furnishing of ethyl alcohol shall not
constitute a violation of this subchapter if such possession or consumption
takes place for religious purposes protected by the First Amendment to the U.S.
Constitution.
(Ord. 11-95, passed 10-25-1995)
§ 134.06 PRIMA FACIE EVIDENCE.
   Prima facie evidence of a violation of §
134.03 shall consist of:
   (A)   Evidence that the defendant was under the age of 21 years and
possessed or consumed ethyl alcohol anywhere in the town; or
   (B)   Evidence that the defendant was under the age of 21 years and
manifested any of the characteristics commonly associated with ethyl alcohol
intoxication or impairment while present anywhere in the town.
(Ord. 11-95, passed 10-25-1995)
§ 134.07 LABELS.
   (A)   During any trial for a violation of §§
134.02 and
134.03, any bottle, can or other container with labeling indicating the
contents of such bottle, can or container shall be admissible into evidence,
and the information contained on any label on such bottle, can or other
container shall be admissible into evidence and shall not constitute hearsay.
   (B)   Any jury or a judge, whichever is appropriate, may consider the
information upon such label in determining whether the contents of the bottle,
can or other container was composed in whole or in part of ethyl alcohol. A
label which identifies the contents of any bottle, can or other container as
“beer”, “ale”, “malt beverage”, “fermented male beverage”, “malt liquor”,
“wine”, “champagne”, “whiskey”, “gin”, “vodka”, “tequila”, “schnapps”,
“brandy”, “cognac”, “liqueur”, “cordial”, “alcohol” or “liquor” shall
constitute prima facie evidence that the contents of the bottle, can or other
container was composed in whole or in part of ethyl alcohol.
(Ord. 11-95, passed 10-25-1995)
§ 134.08 PARENTAL PERMISSION.
   (A)   A person or legal guardian of a person under 21 years of age or any
natural person who has the permission of such parent or legal guardian may give
or permit the possession and consumption of ethyl alcohol to or by a person
under the age of 21 years under the conditions described in §
134.03.
   (B)   This section shall not be construed to permit any establishment which
is required to be licensed pursuant to C.R.S. Title 44, Article 3, 4 or 5 or
any members, employees or occupants of any such establishment to give, provide,
make available or sell ethyl alcohol to a person under 21 year of age.
(Ord. 11-95, passed 10-25-1995)
§ 134.09 PROSECUTION.
   Nothing in this subchapter shall be construed to limit or preclude
prosecution for any offense pursuant to any other applicable law or statute.
(Ord. 11-95, passed 10-25-1995)
§ 134.10 TESTS.
   The qualitative result of an alcohol test or tests shall be admissible at
the trial of any person charged with a violation of §
134.02 upon a showing that the device or devices used to conduct such test or
tests have been approved as accurate in detecting alcohol by the Executive
Director of the Department of Health.
(Ord. 11-95, passed 10-25-1995)
§ 134.11 TRIALS.
   (A)   During any trial for a violation of §
134.02, the court shall take judicial notice of methods of testing a person’s
blood, breath, saliva or urine for the presence of alcohol and of the design
and operation of devices certified by the Department of Health for testing a
person’s blood breath, saliva or urine for the presence of alcohol.
   (B)   (1)   This section shall not prevent the necessity of establishing
during a trial that the testing devices were working properly and that such
testing devices were properly operated.
      (2)   Nothing in this section shall preclude a defendant from offering
evidence concerning the accuracy of testing devices.
(Ord. 11-95, passed 10-25-1995)
§ 134.12 SEALING OF THE CASE.
   (A)   Upon dismissal of a case after a completion of a deferred judgment or
diversion or any other action resulting in dismissal of the case, the municipal
court shall immediately order the case sealed and provide to the underage
person and the prosecutor a copy of the order sealing the case for distribution
by the appropriate party to all law enforcement agencies.
   (B)   (1)   Upon the expiration of one year from the date of a conviction of
a charge under this section, the defendant may petition the municipal court for
an order sealing the record of such municipal court charge.
      (2)   The court shall grant such petition if the petitioner has completed
court ordered treatment; paid all fines and costs; and has not been arrested
for, charged with or convicted of any felony, misdemeanor, petty offense or
criminal city ordinance violation during the period of one year following the
date of such petitioner’s conviction of charges under this section, unless such
offenses are dismissed or the defendant is found not guilty of the charges.
CURFEW
§ 134.25 DECLARATION.
   (A)   The restraint and punishment of loitering by juveniles through the
imposition of curfews applicable to juveniles will discourage juvenile
delinquency. This is a matter of local concern and a proper exercise of the
town’s general police powers.
   (B)   The town has four state interests which justify a curfew applicable to
juveniles:
      (1)   The protection of children from each other and from other persons
on the street during nighttime hours;
      (2)   The protection of the public from nocturnal mischief by juveniles;
      (3)   The reduction of juvenile criminal activity; and
      (4)   The enforcement of parental control of and responsibility for their
children.
(Ord. 1-94, passed 11-9-1994)
§ 134.26 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   JUVENILE. A person under 18 years of age.
   LOITER or LOITERING. Remaining idle in essentially one location, to be
dilatory, to tarry, to dawdle and shall include, but not be limited to,
standing around, hanging out, sitting, kneeling, sauntering or prowling.
(Ord. 1-94, passed 11-9-1994)
§ 134.27 CURFEW.
   (A)   Enforcement. A curfew applicable to juveniles is established and shall
be enforced as follows.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for any juvenile over the age of 15 to loiter
on or about any street, sidewalk, curb, gutter, parking lot, alley, vacant lot,
park, playground or yard, whether public or private, without the consent or
permission of the owner or occupant thereof, or to drive or ride upon the
public streets, highways, roads or alleys, during the hours between 10:00 p.m.
and 5:00 a.m. of the following day on Sunday, Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday or
Thursday of each week, according to the applicable time standard then in effect
for the town, or during the hours between 12:00 a.m. and 5:00 a.m. on Saturday
and Sunday of each week, according to the applicable time standard then in
effect for the town.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful for any juvenile under the age of 16 to loiter
on or about any street, sidewalk, curb, gutter, parking lot, alley, vacant lot,
park, playground or yard, whether public or private, without the consent or
permission of the owner or occupant thereof, or to drive or ride upon the
public streets, highways, roads or alleys, during the hours between 9:00 p.m.
and 5:00 a.m. of the following day on Sunday, Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday or
Thursday of each week, according to the applicable time standard then in effect
for the town, or during the hours between 10:00 p.m. and 5:00 a.m. the
following day on Friday or Saturday of each week, according to the applicable
time standard then in effect for the town.
   (B)   Exceptions. The restrictions provided by divisions (A)(1) and (A)(2)
above shall not apply to any juvenile who is accompanied by a guardian, parent
or other person charged with the care and custody of such juvenile, or other
responsible person over 18 years of age, nor shall the restrictions apply to
any juvenile who is traveling between his or her home or place of residence and
the place where any approved place of employment, church, municipal or school
function is being held.
(Ord. 1-94, passed 11-9-1994) Penalty, see §
134.99
§ 134.28 RESPONSIBILITY OF PARENTS.
   It shall also be unlawful for the parent, guardian or other adult person
having the care and custody of a juvenile to knowingly permit such juvenile to
loiter on or about any street, sidewalk, curb, gutter, parking lot, alley,
vacant lot, park, playground or yard, whether public or private, without the
consent or permission of the owner or occupant thereof, or to drive or ride
upon the public streets, highways, roads or alleys, after the hours designated
in §
134.27 and prior to 5:00 a.m. on the following morning. Provided, however, that
such provision shall not apply when the juvenile is accompanied by his or her
parent, guardian or other adult person having the care and custody of the
juvenile, or where the juvenile is upon an emergency errand or legitimate
business directed by his or her parent, guardian or other adult person having
the care and custody of the juvenile.
(Ord. 1-94, passed 11-9-1994) Penalty, see §
134.99
§ 134.99 PENALTY.
   Any person convicted of a violation of this chapter shall be punished as
provided in §
10.99 of this code.
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
151.   BUILDING REGULATIONS
      
152.   FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
      
153.   LAND DEVELOPMENT CODE
      
154.   TREES
CHAPTER 150: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
Planning and Zoning Commission
   
150.01   Commission created; members
   
150.02   Terms of office
   
150.03   Removal from office; vacancies
   
150.04   Compensation
   
150.05   Officers
   
150.06   Meetings
   
150.07   Quorum
   
150.08   Duties and function
   
150.09   Rules of procedure
Historical Preservation Board
   
150.20   Established
   
150.21   Standards for designation of sites for preservation
   
150.22   Designation of historic sites
   
150.23   Amendment of designation
   
150.24   Alteration of a designated historic landmark
   
150.25   Limitation on resubmission and reconsideration
   
150.26   Notification of intent to alter a designated historic landmark
   
150.27   Revocation of designation
PLANNING AND ZONING COMMISSION
§ 150.01 COMMISSION CREATED; MEMBERS.
   (A)   There is hereby created a Planning and Zoning Commission (the
“Commission”) for the town, consisting of five members, each of whom shall be
appointed by the Board of Trustees.
   (B)   All members shall be bona fide residents of the town, and if any
member shall cease to reside in the town, his or her membership shall
immediately terminate.
(Ord. 08-2021, passed 9-22-2021)
§ 150.02 TERMS OF OFFICE.
   The members of the Commission shall be appointed to serve six-year terms;
provided that members may be initially appointed to shorter terms if necessary
to preserve the stagger in terms.
(Ord. 08-2021, passed 9-22-2021)
§ 150.03 REMOVAL FROM OFFICE; VACANCIES.
   (A)   The Board of Trustees may, after a public hearing and by a majority
vote of those present, remove any member of the Commission for the following
reasons: a conflict of interest violation; any violation of law, regulation or
policy; nonattendance to duty; failure to attend three consecutive regularly
scheduled meetings without a leave of absence approved by majority of the
Commission; or any other cause.
   (B)   Vacancies on the Commission shall be filled by appointment by the
Board of Trustees for the remainder of the unexpired term.
(Ord. 08-2021, passed 9-22-2021)
§ 150.04 COMPENSATION.
   All members of the Commission shall serve as such without compensation and
shall hold no other elective or appointive municipal office.
(Ord. 08-2021, passed 9-22-2021)
§ 150.05 OFFICERS.
   (A)   The Commission shall elect a chairperson from among its members and
create and fill such other of its offices as it may determine.
   (B)   The term of the Chairperson shall be one year, with eligibility for
re-election.
(Ord. 08-2021, passed 9-22-2021)
§ 150.06 MEETINGS.
   The Commission shall meet at least once each month unless there is no
business for the Commission to consider. Regular meeting times shall be
determined at the first Commission meeting of each calendar year. Meetings of
the Commission shall be subject to the Colorado Open Meetings Law. Staff to the
Commission shall keep an accurate summary or minutes of all Commission
meetings, which shall be open for inspection in accordance with the Colorado
Open Records Act.
(Ord. 08-2021, passed 9-22-2021)
§ 150.07 QUORUM.
   A quorum shall be three members of the Commission. No meetings shall be held
without a quorum.
(Ord. 08-2021, passed 9-22-2021)
§ 150.08 DUTIES AND FUNCTION.
   The Commission shall act as the Planning Commission and as the Zoning
Commission, shall prepare plans and conduct hearings and shall be governed by
and have the responsibilities, as provided for in C.R.S. §§ 31-23-201 et seq.
and other applicable statutes and ordinances.
(Ord. 08-2021, passed 9-22-2021)
§ 150.09 RULES OF PROCEDURE.
   The Commission may adopt rules of procedure that are consistent with this
subchapter.
(Ord. 08-2021, passed 9-22-2021)
HISTORICAL PRESERVATION BOARD
§ 150.20 ESTABLISHED.
   (A)   Creation. There is hereby created a Historic Preservation Board,
referred to as the “HPB”, appointed by the Town Board of Trustees, which shall
have principal responsibility for matters of historical preservation of
historic sites and districts within the municipal boundaries of the town.
   (B)   Membership. The HPB shall consist of three members providing a
balanced representation. A minimum of two members shall reside or own real
property within the corporate limits of the town.
   (C)   Appointment and terms.
      (1)   Members of the HPB shall be appointed by the Town Board of Trustees
and shall serve three-year staggered terns from date of appointment.
      (2)   In order to stagger the initial terms of membership, the original
members shall serve as follows:
         (a)   One appointee shall serve a one-year term; one appointee shall
serve a two-year term; and one appointee shall serve a three-year term; and
         (b)   A member shall serve until a successor is appointed. Members may
be appointed to serve successive terms without limitation. Appointments to fill
vacancies on the HPB shall also be made by the Town Board of Trustees. All
members of the HPB shall serve without compensation except for such amounts
determined appropriate by the Town Board of Trustees to offset expenses
incurred in their performance of their duties. The Town Board of Trustees may
remove a member of the HPB for neglect of duty or malfeasance or for other good
cause or without cause, at its discretion.
   (D)   Officers. The HPB shall, by majority, vote to elect a chairperson and
secretary.
   (E)   Meetings. The HPB shall meet at least annually to elect officers and
at such other times determined necessary. Minutes shall be kept of all
proceedings. Meetings shall be conducted in general conformation with Robert’s
Rules of Order.
   (F)   Intent. It is hereby declared to be a matter of public policy that the
protection, enhancement, perpetuation and use of structures, land and districts
of historical, architectural or geographic significance located within the town
is in the public interest.
   (G)   Powers and duties.
      (1)   The HPB shall review from time to time the criteria for designation
of historical sites as set forth in §
150.21 and shall make recommendations for amendments.
      (2)   The HPB shall prepare application forms, and shall review
applications for designation of sites as being historic pursuant to this
chapter, and shall make recommendations as to whether it should designate the
site described in the application for such designation.
      (3)   The HPB may advise and assist owners of historic properties on the
physical and financial aspects of preservation, renovation, rehabilitation and
reuse.
      (4)   The HPB may assist local nonprofit historic preservation groups in
public education programs, research, grant applications or other efforts to
promote historic preservation.
   (H)   Establishment of HPB. The Board of Trustees shall forthwith appoint
members to HPB. Prior to appointment of members to HPB, the Town Board of
Trustees shall approve applications for present status.
(Ord. 01-07, passed 2-14-2007)
§ 150.21 STANDARDS FOR DESIGNATION OF SITES FOR PRESERVATION.
   In order to qualify for designation as a historic site pursuant to this
subchapter, the HPB must determine that it has historic significance due to one
or more of the following factors:
   (A)   It has character, interest or value as part of the historical
development, heritage or culture of the community, state or nation;
   (B)   Its location as a site of a significant historic event;
   (C)   Its identification with a person or persons who significantly
contributed to the culture and development of the town;
   (D)   Its exemplification of the cultural, economic, social or historic
heritage of the town;
   (E)   Its portrayal of the environment of a group of people in an era of
history characterized by distinctive architectural style;
   (F)   Its embodiment of distinguishing characteristics of an architectural
type or specimen;
   (G)   Its identification as the work of an architect or master builder whose
individual work has influenced the development of the town;
   (H)   Its embodiment of the elements of architectural design, detail,
materials or craftsmanship that represent a significant architectural
innovation;
   (I)   Its relationship to other distinctive areas that are eligible for
preservation according to a plan based on a historic, cultural or architectural
motif; and
   (J)   Its unique location or singular physical characteristic representing
an established and familiar visual feature of a neighborhood or of the town.
(Ord. 01-07, passed 2-14-2007)
§ 150.22 DESIGNATION OF HISTORIC SITES.
   (A)   Recommendations for designation of historic sites. Pursuant to the
procedures set forth in this chapter, the HPB may recommend that a site is
designated as a historic site for preservation, meeting the criteria set forth
in §
150.21. Each such recommendation shall include a description of characteristics
of the site, which justify its designation and shall include a legal
description of the site. The recommendation may indicate alterations that would
have a significant impact on, or be potentially detrimental to, the historic
features of the site. Any such designation shall be in furtherance of and in
conformance with the purposes and standards of this subchapter.
   (B)   Procedures for designating historic sites.
      (1)   Applications for designation of historic sites must be made to the
HPB on forms provided by the HPB. Applications shall be made only by the owners
of 100% of the site for which the application is submitted.
      (2)   (a)   The HPB shall review applications for designation of historic
sites for content and for completeness.
         (b)   The HPB shall consider and act upon applications at regularly
scheduled or special meeting within 30 days of receipt of the application.
         (c)   The HPB shall approve, approve with conditions or disapprove
applications.
      (3)   Within 30 days of action by the HPB, the Town Board of Trustees
shall by resolution approve or modify and approve, or shall disapprove the
proposed historic designation.
      (4)   Prior to action on applications by the Town Board of Trustees,
applicants may withdraw applications by submitting a written request to the
Town Clerk.
      (5)   The resolution designating a site as a local historic landmark
shall be recorded in the records of the County Clerk.
(Ord. 01-07, passed 2-14-2007)
§ 150.23 AMENDMENT OF DESIGNATION.
   Designation of a historic site may be amended to add features or property to
the site according to the application process described in this subchapter for
new designations.
(Ord. 01-07, passed 2-14-2007)
§ 150.24 ALTERATION OF A DESIGNATED HISTORIC LANDMARK.
   All modifications to designated historic landmarks shall be done in
conformance with the Secretary of the Interior’s “Standards for Rehabilitation
and Guidelines for Rehabilitating Historic Buildings”, as published by the U.S.
Department of the Interior, National Park Service.
(Ord. 01-07, passed 2-14-2007)
§ 150.25 LIMITATION ON RESUBMISSION AND RECONSIDERATION.
   Whenever the Town Board of Trustees disapproves an application for historic
designation, or whenever an owner withdraws an application, no person shall
submit an application for the same site within one year of the disapproval or
withdrawal.
(Ord. 01-07, passed 2-14-2007)
§ 150.26 NOTIFICATION OF INTENT TO ALTER A DESIGNATED HISTORIC LANDMARK.
   Any owner filing an application for designation of a site shall, as part of
the application, shall agree that, at any time after a site is designated as a
historic site, to notify the Town Clerk of the owner’s intention to alter,
demolish, move or remove the site and provide plans for the work at least 30
days prior to beginning such work. This notification requirement shall run with
the land and shall bind successors and assigns. The Clerk shall, upon receipt,
forward the notification and plans to the Preservation HPB for review. The HPB
shall review the plans and may advise the owner on the potential affect of the
plans on the historic designation. Based on the plans, the HPB may recommend
that the historic designation be modified or revoked.
(Ord. 01-07, passed 2-14-2007)
§ 150.27 REVOCATION OF DESIGNATION.
   The Town Board of Trustees may by resolution revoke or modify the
designation of a site, after 15 days’ notice to the owner and after public
hearing, if any of the following conditions exist:
   (A)   If any owner of a designated site fails to provide notification as
required in §
150.26, or if alterations to the site will significantly alter the historic
character of the site;
   (B)   If an owner of a designated historic site submits a request to the
Town Board of Trustees for revocation of a historic designation;
   (C)   If the Preservation HPB makes a recommendation for modification or
revocation based on an owner’s written intent to alter a designated historic
site; and
   (D)   If modifications are made to a historic landmark that is found by the
Preservation HPB to not be in accordance with the standards specified in §
150.21.
(Ord. 01-07, passed 2-14-2007)
CHAPTER 151: BUILDING REGULATIONS
Section
   
151.01   International Building Code
   
151.02   International Residential Code
   
151.03   International Mechanical Code
   
151.04   International Fuel Gas Code
   
151.05   International Energy Conservation Code
   
151.06   International Property Maintenance Code
   
151.07   International Existing Building Code
   
151.08   International Swimming Pool and Spa Code
   
151.09   International Plumbing Code
   
151.10   National Electric Code
   
151.11   Copies available
 
   
151.99   Penalty
§ 151.01 INTERNATIONAL BUILDING CODE.
   (A)   Adoption. The International Building Code, 2018 Edition, as published
by the International Code Council, 4051 West Flossmoor Road, Country Club
Hills, IL 60478, Chapters 1 through 35, inclusive, and Appendix Chapters C, E,
H, I and J (IBC), is hereby adopted by reference as the Town Building Code, as
if fully set out in this chapter with the additions, deletions, insertions and
changes as set forth in this section.
   (B)   Compliance required. No building shall be hereafter constructed,
erected, enlarged, altered or moved into the town unless the same shall, as to
design, construction, quality of materials and workmanship, conform with the
IBC, as adopted and as amended.
   (C)   Purpose. The purpose of the IBC is to provide minimum standards to
safeguard life or limb, health, property and public welfare by regulating and
controlling the design, construction, quality of materials, use and occupancy,
location and maintenance of all commercial and multi-family buildings and
structures within the town and certain equipment specifically regulated in the
IBC.
   (D)   Amendments. Additions, deletions, amendments and changes to the IBC,
as adopted by reference pursuant to division (A) above, are hereby adopted as
follows.
      (1)   IBC 101.1 (Title) is amended by the addition of the term “TOWN OF
WIGGINS” where indicated.
      (2)   IBC 101.4.3 (Plumbing) is amended by the deletion of the last
sentence:
         “The provisions of the International Private Sewage Disposal Code
shall apply to private sewage disposal systems.”
      (3)   IBC 101.4.5 (Fire prevention) is amended by replacing
“International Fire Code” with “adopted fire code”.
      (4)   IBC 101.4.6 (Energy) is amended by replacing the words
“International Energy Conservation Code” with “2018 International Energy
Conservation Code”.
      (5)   IBC 105.1 (Required) is amended by replacing the words “building
official” with “Town”.
      (6)   IBC 105.2 (Work exempt from permit) is amended by deleting or
inserting:
         Building
         i.   Exception #1 is deleted and replaced with: “One-Story detached
accessory structures used as tool and storage sheds, playhouses, greenhouses
and similar uses, provided the floor area does not exceed 120 square feet and
the roof height does not exceed 10 feet above grade measured from a point
directly outside the exterior walls of the structure and the structure is not
on a permanent slab foundation.”
         ii.   Exception #2 (fences) is deleted in its entirety.
         iii.   Exception #14 is added to read: “Shingle repair or replacement
work not exceeding one hundred (100) square feet in area of covering per
building.”
      (7)   105.5 (Expiration) is amended by the deletion of this section in
its entirety and replacing it with:
         “Every permit issued by the building official under the provisions of
this code shall expire by limitation and become null and void if the building
or work authorized by such permit is not commenced within 180 days from the
date of such permit, or if the building or work authorized by such permit is
suspended or abandoned at any time after the work is commenced for a period of
180 days. Before such work can be recommenced, a new permit shall be first
obtained to do so, and the fee therefor shall be one half the amount required
for a new permit for such work, provided no changes have been made or will be
made in the original plans and specifications for such work, and provided
further that such suspension or abandonment has not exceeded one year. In order
to renew action on a permit after expiration, the permittee shall pay a new
full permit fee.”
      (8)   IBC 109.2 (Schedule of permit fees) is amended by deleting the
section in its entirety and replacing as follows:
         “On buildings, structures, and mechanical systems or alterations
requiring a permit, a fee for each permit shall be paid as required in
accordance with the Town of Wiggins Schedule of Fees that is periodically
updated from time to time. The determination of value or valuation under any of
the provisions of this Code shall be made by the building official.”
      (9)   IBC 109.4 (Work commencing before permit issuance) is amended by
the deletion of this section in its entirety and replaced with the following:
         “Any person who commences any work on a building, structure,
electrical, gas, mechanical or plumbing system before obtaining the necessary
permits may be subject to an investigation fee in an amount up to the amount of
the permit fee that would normally be accessed for the specific type of
construction activity, with any such investigation fee being in addition to all
other required permit fees. The investigation fee shall be collected whether or
not a permit is then subsequently issued.”
      (10)   IBC 109.6 (Refunds) is amended by the deletion of this section in
its entirety and replaced with the following:
         i.   “The town may authorize refunding of any fee paid hereunder which
was erroneously paid or collected.
         ii.   The town may authorize refunding of not more than 80 percent
(80%) of the permit fee paid when no work has been done under a permit issued
in accordance with this code.
         iii.   The town may authorize refunding of not more than 80 percent
(80%) of the plan review fee paid when an application for a permit for which a
plan review fee has been paid is withdrawn or cancelled before any plan
reviewing is done.
         iv.   The town shall not authorize refunding of any fee paid except on
written application filed by the original permittee not later than 180 days
after the date of fee payment.”
      (11)   IBC 113.1 (General) is amended by the deletion of the last two
sentences and replaced with the following:
         “The members of the Board of Appeals shall be comprised of the members
of the Town Board of Trustees.”
      (12)   IBC 113.3 (Qualifications) is amended by the deletion of this
section in its entirety.
      (13)   IBC 114.2 (Notice of violation) is amended by adding a second
paragraph with: “‘Notice of Violations’ shall be delivered in accordance with
section 107 of the IPMC” after the last paragraph.
      (14)   IBC 114.4 (Violation penalties) is deleted in its entirety and
replaced with:
         “It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, corporation or other
entity to erect, construct, enlarge, alter, repair, move, improve, remove,
convert or demolish, equip, use, occupy or maintain any building, structure, or
cause or permit the same to be done in violation of the me. In addition to
other sanctions set forth in the IBC, a person or entity that violates the IBC
may be fined in an amount not to exceed the maximum fine amount permitted to be
imposed by the municipal court or as more fully set forth in §
151.99 of this code. Each day that a violation continues after due notice has
been served shall be deemed a separate offense.”
      (15)   IBC 202 (Definitions) is amended by addition of the following:
         “‘Sleeping Room’ (Bedroom) is any enclosed habitable space within a
dwelling unit, which complies with the minimum room dimension requirements of
IBC Section 1207 and contains a closet, an area that is useable as a closet, or
an area that is readily convertible for use as a closet. Living rooms, family
rooms and other similar habitable areas that are so situated and designed so as
to clearly indicate these intended uses, shall not be interpreted as sleeping
rooms.”
      (16)   IBC 915.2.1 (Dwelling units) is amended by the deletion of the
first sentence and replaced with the following: “Carbon monoxide detection
shall be installed in dwelling units within 15 feet of each separate sleeping
area and on every level.”
      (17)   IBC 1015.2 (Where required) is amended by the addition of a second
paragraph inserted before the exceptions as follows:
         “All area wells, stair wells, window wells and light wells attached to
any building that are located less than 36 inches (914.4 mm) from the nearest
intended walking surface and deeper than 30 inches (762 mm) below the
surrounding ground level, shall be protected with guardrails conforming to this
section around the entire opening, or be provided with an equivalent barrier.”
      (18)   IBC 1020.1 Table 1020.1 (Corridor fire-resistance rating) is
amended to replace the corridor rating for R Occupancies with a sprinkler
system from 0.5 to 1-Hour fire rating.
      (19)   IBC 1030.1 (General) is amended by deleting exception #4.
      (20)   IBC 1109.1.1 is amended by adding “Baby Changing Station: All
public restrooms will require a baby changing station”.
      (21)   IBC 1301.1.1 (Criteria) is amended by replacing “International
Energy Conservation Code” with the “2018 International Energy Conservation
Code”.
      (22)   IBC 1612.3 (Establishment of flood hazard areas) is amended by the
insertion of “TOWN OF WIGGINS” where indicated in [Name of Jurisdiction] and
the date of the latest flood insurance study for the Town 04/18/2018 where
indicated in [Date of Issuance].
      (23)   Appendix J (Grading) is amended by the addition of new sections
“J112 Grading Fees” and “J113 Performance Guarantees” which shall read as
follows:
         “Section J112 Grading Fees
         J112.1 General. Fees shall be assessed in accordance with the
provisions of this section and in the amount set forth in the fee schedule
adopted by the Board of Trustees by resolution.
         J112.2 Plan review fees. When a plan or other data are required to be
submitted, a plan review fee shall be paid at the time of submitting plans and
specifications for review. Said plan review fee shall be as set forth in a fee
schedule adopted by the Board of Trustees by resolution. Separate plan review
fees shall apply to retaining walls or major drainage structures as required
elsewhere in this code. For excavation and fill on the same site, the fee shall
be based on the volume of excavation or fill, whichever is greater.
         J112.3 Grading permit fees. A fee for each grading permit shall be
paid to the Town as set forth in a fee schedule adopted by the Board of
Trustees by resolution. Separate permits and fees shall apply to retaining
walls or major drainage structures as required elsewhere in this code. There
shall be no separate charge for standard terrace drains and similar facilities.
         Section J113 Performance Guarantees. The Town may require a
performance guarantee in the form of a bond, letter of credit or cash escrow in
such form and amounts as may be deemed necessary to ensure that the work, if
not completed in accordance with the approved plans and specifications, will be
corrected to eliminate hazardous conditions.”
(Ord. 01-2022, passed 1-26-2022) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.02 INTERNATIONAL RESIDENTIAL CODE.
   (A)   Adoption.
      (1)   The International Residential Code, 2018 Edition, as published by
the International Code Council, 4051 West Flossmoor Road, Country Club Hills,
IL 60478, Chapters 1 through 43, inclusive, and Appendix Chapters F, G, H and L
(IRC), is hereby adopted by reference as the Town Residential Building Code, as
if fully set out in this chapter with the additions deletions insertions and
changes as follows.
      (2)   Appendices are:
         (a)   F - Radon Control Methods;
         (b)   G - Piping Standards; and
         (c)   H - Patio Covers.
   (B)   Compliance required. No residential building shall be hereafter
constructed, erected, enlarged, altered or moved into the town unless the same
shall, as to design, construction, quality of materials and workmanship,
conform with the IRC, as adopted and as amended.
   (C)   Purpose. The purpose of the IRC is to provide minimum standards to
safeguard life or limb, health, property and public welfare by regulating and
controlling the design, construction, quality of materials, use and occupancy,
location and maintenance of all one- and two-family dwellings and multiple
single-family dwellings (town houses) not more than three stories in height
with a separate means of egress within the town and certain equipment
specifically regulated in the IRC.
   (D)   Amendments. Additions, deletions, amendments and changes to the IRC,
as adopted by reference, pursuant to division (A) above, are hereby adopted as
follows.
      (1)   IRC R101.1 (Title) is amended by the addition of the term “TOWN OF
WIGGINS” where indicated.
      (2)   IRC R105.1 (Required) is amended by replacing the words “building
official” with “Town”.
      (3)   IRC R105.2 (Work Exempt from permit) is amended by deleting or
adding the following:
         Building
         i.   Exception #1 is deleted and replaced with: “One-Story detached
accessory structures used as tool and storage sheds, playhouses, greenhouses
and similar uses, provided the floor area does not exceed 120 square feet and
the roof height does not exceed 10 feet above grade measured from a point
directly outside the exterior walls of the structure and the structure is not
on a permanent slab foundation.”
         ii.   Exception #2 (Fences) is deleted in its entirety.
         iii.   Exception #3 (Retaining walls) is deleted and replaced with:
“Retaining walls that are not over 4 feet (1219 mm) in height measured from the
bottom of the footing to the top of the wall and are not less than 12 inches
from a public sidewalk, unless supporting a surcharge.”
         iv.   Exception #4 (Water tanks) is deleted in its entirety.
         v.   Exception #5 (Sidewalks & driveways) is deleted in its entirety
and replaced with:
            “New sidewalks and driveways require a permit. Replacement of
driveways and sidewalks are exempt from building permits.”
         vi.   Exception #10 is deleted and replaced with: “Shingle repair or
replacement work not exceeding one hundred (100) square feet in area of
covering per building.”
         vii.   Exception #11 (Concrete slabs) is added to read as follows:
“Concrete form and pours that are not attached to a building or structure and
are not for the construction of decks, awnings, pergolas, gazebos or any other
types of decking or porch structures. Driveways do not fall under this
category.”
      (4)   IRC 105.5 (Expiration) is deleted in its entirety and replaced
with:
         “Every permit issued by the building official under the provisions of
this code shall expire by limitation and become null and void if the building
or work authorized by such permit is not commenced within 180 days from the
date of such permit, or if the building or work authorized by such permit is
suspended or abandoned at any time after the work is commenced for a period of
180 days. Before such work can be recommenced, a new permit shall be first
obtained to do so, and the fee therefor shall be one half the amount required
for a new permit for such work, provided no changes have been made or will be
made in the original plans and specifications for such work, and provided
further that such suspension or abandonment has not exceeded one year. In order
to renew action on a permit after expiration, the permittee shall pay a new
full permit fee.”
      (5)   IRC 106.2 (Site plan) is deleted in its entirety and replaced with:
         “The construction documents submitted with the application for the
permit shall be accompanied by a site plan showing the size and location of new
construction and existing structures on the site, distances from lot lines and
drainage of the lot based on the master drainage plan for the development. In
the case of demolition, the site plan shall show construction to be demolished
and the location and size of existing structures and construction that are to
remain on the site or plot.”
      (6)   IRC R108.2 (Schedule of permit fees) is deleted in its entirety and
replaced with:
         “On buildings, structures, and mechanical systems or alterations
requiring a permit; a fee for each permit shall be paid as required in
accordance with the Town of Wiggins Schedule of Fees that is periodically
updated from time to time. The determination of value or valuation under any of
the provisions of this Code shall be made by the Town.”
      (7)   IRC R108.4 (Related fees) is amended by creating a new subsection
as follows:
         “Any person who commences any work on a building, structure,
electrical, gas, mechanical or plumbing system before obtaining the necessary
permits may be subject to an investigation fee in an amount up to the amount of
the permit fee that would normally be assessed for the specific type of
construction activity, with any such investigation fee being in addition to all
other required permit fees. The investigation fee shall be collected whether or
not a permit is then subsequently issued.”
      (8)   IRC R108.5 (Refunds) is amended by the deletion of this section in
its entirety and replaced with the following:
         i.   “The town may authorize refunding of any fee paid hereunder which
was erroneously paid or collected.
         ii.   The town may authorize refunding of not more than 80 percent
(80%) of the permit fee paid when no work has been done under a permit issued
in accordance with this code.
         iii.   The town may authorize refunding of not more than 80 percent
(80%) of the plan review fee paid when an application for a permit for which a
plan review fee has been paid is withdrawn or cancelled before any plan
reviewing is done.
         iv.   The town shall not authorize refunding of any fee paid except on
written application filed by the original permittee not later than 180 days
after the date of fee payment.”
      (9)   IRC Rl08.6 (Work commencing before permit issuance) is deleted in
its entirety and replaced with:
         “Any person who commences any work on a building, structure,
electrical, gas, mechanical or plumbing system before obtaining the necessary
permits may be subject to an investigation fee in an amount up to the amount of
the permit fee that would normally be accessed for the specific type of
construction activity, with any such investigation fee being in addition to all
other required permit fees. The investigation fee shall be collected whether or
not a permit is then subsequently issued.”
      (10)   IRC R109.l.5 (Other inspections) is amended by the addition of a
new subsection as follows:
         “IRC R109.l.5.2 Insulation inspection shall be made after a completed
and approved rough inspection, following the installation of the wall, ceiling
and floor insulation and exterior windows and before wall coverings are
installed.”
      (11)   IRC R112.1 (General) is amended by the deletion of the last three
sentences and replaced with:
         “The members of the Board of Appeals shall be comprised of the members
of the Town Board of Trustees.”
      (12)   IRC R112.3 (Qualifications) is amended by the deletion of this
section in its entirety.
      (13)   IRC R113.2 (Notice of violation) is amended by the addition of
“Notice of Violations shall be delivered in accordance with section 107 of the
IPMC” after the last paragraph.
      (14)   IRC 113.4 (Violation penalties) is amended by the deletion of this
section and replaced with:
         “Penalties for Violation. It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or
corporation to erect, construct, enlarge, alter, repair, move, improve, remove,
convert or demolish, equip, use, occupy or maintain any building or structure
or cause or permit the same to be done in violation of the IRC. In addition to
other sanctions set forth in the IRC, a person or entity that violates the IRC
may be fined in an amount not to exceed the maximum fine amount permitted to be
imposed by the municipal court or, as more fully set forth in §
151.99 of this code. Each day that a violation continues after due notice has
been served shall be deemed a separate offense.”
      (15)   IRC R202 (Definitions) is amended by addition of the following:
         “‘Sleeping Room’ (Bedroom) is any enclosed habitable space within a
dwelling unit, which complies with the minimum room dimension requirements of
IRC Sections R304 and R305 and contains a closet, an area that is useable as a
closet, or an area that is readily convertible for use as a closet. Living
rooms, family rooms and other similar habitable areas that are so situated and
designed so as to clearly indicate these intended uses, shall not be
interpreted as sleeping rooms.”
      (16)   IRC Table R301.2(1) is completed to provide the following:
Table R301.2(1)
CLIMATIC & GEOGRAPHIC DESIGN CRITERIA
Table R301.2(1)
CLIMATIC & GEOGRAPHIC DESIGN CRITERIA
       WIND DESIGN                          SUBJECT TO DAMAGE FROM      WINT   ICE            AIR
GROUND                       Windb  SEISMIC                             ER     BARRI ER FLOO  FREE MEAN
SNOW   Speed Topogr  Special orne   DESIGN  Weat  Frost line            DESI   UNDE R-  D     ZING ANNUAL
LOAD   (mph) aphic   wind    debris CATE    herin depth      Termit s   GN TEM LAYM ENT HAZA  INDE TEMP
             effects region  zone   GORY    g                           P      REQUIRED RDS   X

30spf  115   No                     B       Sever 30 in      Slight to  1      Yes      26713 1000 43F
                                            e                moderate
MANUAL J DESIGN CRITERIA
                                                                        Indoo
                                    Winter        Summer     Altitud e  r      Design         Heating
Elevation            Latitude       heating       cooling    correction design temperature    temperature
                                                             factor     tempe  cooling        difference
                                                                        rature
                                                                        Winte
Cooling temperature  Wind velocity  Wind velocity Coincident Daily      r      Summer         - - - -
difference           heating        cooling       wet bulb   range      humid  humidity
                                                                        ity
For SI: 1 pound per square foot=0.0479 kPa, 1 mile per hour=0.447 m/s.
a.   Where weathering requires a higher strength concrete or grade of masonry than necessary to satisfy
the structural requirements of this code, the frost line depth strength required for weathering shall
govern. The weathering column shall be filled in with the weathering index, “negligible,” “moderate” or
“severe” for concrete as determined from Figure R301.2(4). The grade of masonry units shall be determined
from ASTM C34, C55, C62, C73, C90, C129, C145, 216 or C652.
b.   Where the frost line depth requires deeper footings than indicated in Figure R403.1(1), the frost
line depth strength required for weathering shall govern. The jurisdiction shall fill in the frost line
depth column with the minimum depth of footing below finish grade.
c.   The jurisdiction shall fill in this part of the table to indicate the need for protection depending
on whether there has been a history of local subterranean termite damage.
d.   The jurisdiction shall fill in this part of the table with the wind speed from the basic wind speed
map [Figure R301.2(5)A]. Wind exposure category shall be determined on a site-specific basis in
accordance with Section R301.2.l.4.
e.   The outdoor design dry-bulb temperature shall be selected from the columns of 971/2-percent values
for winter from Appendix D of the International Plumbing Code. Deviations from the Appendix D
temperatures shall be permitted to reflect local climates or local weather experience as determined by
the building official. [Also see Figure R301.2(1).]
f.   The jurisdiction shall fill in this part of the table with the seismic design category determined
from Section R301.2.2.1.
g.   The jurisdiction shall fill in this part of the table with (a) the date of the jurisdiction’s entry
into the National Flood Insurance Program (date of adoption of the first code or ordinance for management
of flood hazard areas), (b) the date(s) of the Flood Insurance Study and (c) the panel numbers and dates
of the currently effective FIRMs and FBFMs or other flood hazard map adopted by the authority having
jurisdiction, as amended.
h.   In accordance with Sections R905.1.2, R905.4.3.1, R905.5.3.1, R905.6.3.1, R905.7.3.1 and R905.8.3.1,
where there has been a history of local damage from the effects of ice damming, the jurisdiction shall
fill in this part of the table with “YES.” Otherwise, the jurisdiction shall fill in this part of the
table with “NO.”
i.   The jurisdiction shall fill in this part of the table with the 100-year return period air freezing
index (BF-days) from Figure R403.3(2) or from the 100-year (99 percent) value on the National Climatic
Data Center data table “Air Freezing Index-USA Method (Base 32F).”
j.   The jurisdiction shall fill in this part of the table with the mean annual temperature from the
National Climatic Data Center data table “Air Freezing Index-USA Method (Base 32F).”
k.    In accordance with Section R301.2.1.5, where there is local historical data documenting structural
damage to buildings due to topographic wind speed-up effects, the jurisdiction shall fill in this part of
the table with “YES.” Otherwise, the jurisdiction shall indicate “NO” in this part of the table.
l.   In accordance with Figure R301.2(5)A, where there is local historical data documenting unusual wind
conditions, the jurisdiction shall fill in this part of the table with “YES” and identify any specific
requirements. Otherwise, the jurisdiction shall indicate “NO” in this part of the table.
m.   In accordance with Section R301.2.l.2 the jurisdiction shall indicate the wind-borne debris wind
zone(s). Otherwise, the jurisdiction shall indicate “NO” in this part of the table.
n.   The jurisdiction shall fill in these sections of the table to establish the design criteria using
Table 1a or 1b from ACCA Manual J or established criteria determined by the jurisdiction.
o.   The jurisdiction shall fill in this section of the table using the Ground Snow Loads in Figure
R301.2(6).
 
      (17)   IRC R302.l (Exterior walls) is amended by the deletion of the
following wording only:
         “or dwellings equipped throughout with an automatic sprinkler system
installed in accordance with section P2904 shall comply with Table R302.1(2).”
      (18)   IRC Table R302.l(2) is deleted in its entirety.
      (19)   IRC R302.3 (Two-family dwelling) is amended by replacing “1-Hour
fire-resistance rating” with “2-Hour fire-resistance rating” and by deleting
exception #1.
      (20)   IRC R302.13 (Fire protection of floors) is amended by the addition
of exceptions 5, 6 and 7 as follows:
         i.   “Exception #5 - For floor assemblies located over a basement or
crawlspace, mechanical equipment rooms not larger than 80 square feet
constructed per sections R302.13 with minimum 1/2-inch gypsum wallboard on the
enclosing ceiling, walls and self-closing weather-stripped solid door.
         ii.   Exception #6 - Floor assemblies located over a basement or
crawlspace, with mechanical equipment rooms not larger than 80 square feet may
be constructed per Exception #4, using fire treated I joists only above furnace
closet area with minimum 5/8-inch Type X gypsum wallboard on the enclosing
walls and a self-closing weather-stripped solid core 20-minute rated door and
frame.
         iii.   Exception #7 - For floor assemblies located over a basement or
crawl space with a mechanical equipment room not larger than 80 square feet may
be unprotected if a fire sprinkler head is installed in accordance with section
P2904 or the International Building Code sections 903.3.1.2 or 903.3.1.3,
installed within the equipment room on a domestic water loop.”
      (21)   IRC Section R309.5 (Fire sprinklers) is amended by the deletion of
this section in its entirety.
      (22)   IRC Section R310.l (Emergency escape and rescue openings):
         i.   “Exception #2 is amended by the deletion of the exception and its
conditions.”
      (23)   IRC Section R312.l (Where required) is deleted and replaced with
the following:
         “R312.1.1 Where required. Guards shall be provided for those portions
of open-sided walking surfaces, including stairs, ramps and landings, that are
located more than 30-inches (762 mm) measured vertically to the floor or grade
below at any point within 36-inches (914 mm) horizontally to the edge of the
open side. Insect screening shall not be considered as a guard.”
         All area wells, stairwells, window wells and light wells attached to
any building that are located less than 36 inches (914 mm) from the nearest
intended walking surface and deeper than 30-inches (762 mm) below the
surrounding ground level, creating an opening greater than 24-inches (610 mm)
measured perpendicular from the building, shall be protected with guardrails
conforming to this section around the entire opening, or be provided with an
equivalent barrier.
         Exceptions:
         i.   The access side of stairways need not be protected.
         ii.   Area and window wells provided for emergency escape and rescue
windows may be protected with approved grates or covers that comply with
Section R310.4 of this code.
         iii.   Covers and grates may be used over stairways and other openings
used exclusively for service access or for admitting light or ventilation.”
      (24)   IRC R313.1 (Townhouse automatic fire sprinkler systems) is amended
by the deletion of this section in its entirety.
      (25)   IRC R313.2 (One-and two-family dwellings automatic fire sprinkler
systems) is amended by the deletion of this section in its entirety.
      (26)   IRC 315.3 (Location) The first paragraph is amended as follows:
“Carbon monoxide detection shall be installed in dwelling units within 15-feet
of each separate sleeping area.”
      (27)   IRC R401.2 (Requirements) is amended by the addition of the
following after the first paragraph:
         “Foundations shall be designed, and the construction drawings stamped
by a Colorado registered design professional. The foundation design must be
based on an engineer’s soils report. The drawings must be noted with the
engineering firm name, specific location for design and soils report number. A
site certification prepared by State of Colorado registered design professional
is required for setback verification on all new Group R Division 3
occupancies.”
      (28)   IRC R405.1 (Concrete or masonry foundations) is amended with the
addition of the following after the first sentence: “All foundation drains
shall be designed and inspected by a State of Colorado registered design
professional.”
      (29)   IRC Chapter 11 (Energy efficiency) is deleted in its entirety and
replaced with the 2018 International Energy Conservation Code.
      (30)   IRC G2415.12 (Minimum burial depth) is amended by the addition of
the following: “All plastic fuel gas piping shall be installed a minimum of 18-
inches (457 mm) below grade.”
      (31)   IRC G2417.4.1 (Test pressure) is amended by changing “3 psig” to
“10 psig”.
      (32)   IRC G2417.4.2 (Test duration) is amended by replacing “10 Minutes”
with “15 Minutes”.
      (33)   IRC P2503.5.1 (Rough plumbing) is amended by deleting the first
paragraph and replacing it with “DWV systems shall be tested on completion of
the rough piping installation by water or air with no evidence of leakage”.
      (34)   IRC P2603.5.l (Sewer depth) is amended by filling in both areas
where indicated to read “12-inches (305 mm)”.
      (35)   IRC P3103. 1.l (Roof extension) is amended by replacing the words
“6-inches” with “12-inches”.
(Ord. 01-2022, passed 1-26-2022) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.03 INTERNATIONAL MECHANICAL CODE.
   (A)   Adoption. The International Mechanical Code, 2018 Edition, as
published by the International Code Council, 4051 West Flossmoor Road, Country
Club Hills, IL 60478, Chapters 1 through 15, inclusive (IMC), is hereby adopted
by reference as the Town Mechanical Code as if fully set out in this chapter
with the additions, deletions, insertions and changes as follows.
   (B)   Compliance required. No building shall be hereafter constructed,
erected, enlarged, altered or moved into the town unless the same shall, as to
design, construction, quality of materials and workmanship, conform with the
IMC, as adopted and as amended.
   (C)   Purpose. The purpose of the IMC is to provide minimum standards to
safeguard life or limb, health, property and public welfare by regulating and
controlling the design, construction, quality of materials, use and occupancy,
location and maintenance of mechanical systems and structures within the town
and certain equipment specifically regulated in the IMC.
   (D)   Amendments. The following deletions, additions, insertions and changes
are hereby made to the IMC as adopted by reference by division (A) above.
      (1)   IMC 101.1 Title is amended by the addition of the term “TOWN OF
WIGGINS” where indicated.
      (2)   IMC 106.4.3 (Expiration) is deleted in its entirety and replaced
with:
         “Every permit issued by the building official under the provisions of
this code shall expire by limitation and become null and void if the building
or work authorized by such permit is not commenced within 180 days from the
date of such permit, or if the building or work authorized by such permit is
suspended or abandoned at any time after the work is commenced for a period of
180 days. Before such work can be recommenced, a new permit shall be first
obtained to do so, and the fee therefor shall be one half the amount required
for a new permit for such work, provided no changes have been made or will be
made in the original plans and specifications for such work, and provided
further that such suspension or abandonment has not exceeded one year. In order
to renew action on a permit after expiration, the permittee shall pay a new
full permit fee.”
      (3)    IMC 106.5.1 (Work commencing before a permit issuance) is deleted
in its entirety and replaced with:
         “Any person who commences any work on a building, structure,
electrical, gas, mechanical or plumbing system before obtaining the necessary
permits may be subject to an investigation fee in an amount up to the amount of
the permit fee that would normally be accessed for the specific type of
construction activity, with any such investigation fee being in addition to all
other required permit fees. The investigation fee shall be collected whether or
not a permit is then subsequently issued.”
      (4)   IMC 106.5.2 (Fee schedule) is deleted in its entirety and replaced
with:
         “On buildings, structures, and mechanical systems or alterations
requiring a permit; a fee for each permit shall be paid as required in
accordance with the Town of Wiggins Schedule of Fees that is periodically
updated from time to time. The determination of value or valuation under any of
the provisions of this Code shall be made by the Town.”
      (5)   106.5.3 (Fee refunds) is amended by the deletion of this section in
its entirety and replaced with the following:
         i.   “The town may authorize refunding of any fee paid hereunder which
was erroneously paid or collected.
         ii.   The town may authorize refunding of not more than 80 percent
(80%) of the permit fee paid when no work has been done under a permit issued
in accordance with this code.
         iii.   The town may authorize refunding of not more than 80 percent
(80%) of the plan review fee paid when an application for a permit for which a
plan review fee has been paid is withdrawn or cancelled before any plan
reviewing is done.
         iv.   The town shall not authorize refunding of any fee paid except on
written application filed by the original permittee not later than 180 days
after the date of fee payment.”
      (6)   IMC 108.4 (Violation penalties) is deleted in its entirety and
replaced with:
         “Penalties for Violation. It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or
corporation to erect, construct, enlarge, alter, repair, move, improve, remove,
convert or demolish, equip, use, occupy or maintain any building or structure
or cause or permit the same to be done in violation of the IMC. In addition to
other sanctions set forth in the IMC, a person or entity that violates the IMC
may be fined in an amount not to exceed the maximum fine amount permitted to be
imposed by the municipal court or, as more fully set forth in §
151.99 of this code. Each day that a violation continues after due notice has
been served shall be deemed a separate offense.”
      (7)   IMC 109.2 (Membership of board) is deleted in its entirety and
replaced with:
         “The members of the Board of Appeals shall be comprised of the members
of the Town Board of Trustees.”
      (8)   IMC 109.2.1 through 109.2.6 are deleted in their entirety.
      (9)   IMC 109.3 (Notice of meeting) is deleted in its entirety and
replaced with: “The Board of Trustees shall meet upon notice from the Town
Manager, within 20 days of the filing of an appeal, or at stated periodic
meetings.”
(Ord. 01-2022, passed 1-26-2022) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.04 INTERNATIONAL FUEL GAS CODE.
   (A)   Adoption. The International Fuel Gas Code, 2018 Edition, as published
by the International Code Council, 4051 West Flossmoor Road, Country Club
Hills, IL 60478, Chapters 1 through 8, inclusive (IFGC), is hereby adopted by
reference as the Town Fuel Gas Code as if fully set out in this chapter with
the additions, deletions, insertions and changes as follows.
   (B)   Compliance required. No building shall be hereafter constructed,
erected, enlarged, altered or moved into the town unless the same shall, as to
design, construction, quality of materials and workmanship, conform with the
IFGC, as adopted and as amended.
   (C)   Purpose. The purpose of the IFGC is to provide minimum standards to
safeguard life or limb, health, property and public welfare by regulating and
controlling the design, construction, quality of materials, use and occupancy,
location and maintenance of fuel gas piping systems and fuel gas utilization
equipment within the town and related accessories specifically regulated in the
IFGC.
   (D)   Amendments. The following deletions, additions, insertions and changes
are hereby made to the IFGC as adopted by reference by division (A) below.
      (1)   IFGC 101.1 (Title) is amended by the addition of the term “TOWN OF
WIGGINS” where indicated.
      (2)   IFGC 106.5.3 (Expiration) is deleted in its entirety and replaced
with:
         “Every permit issued by the building official under the provisions of
this code shall expire by limitation and become null and void if the building
or work authorized by such permit is not commenced within 180 days from the
date of such permit, or if the building or work authorized by such permit is
suspended or abandoned at any time after the work is commenced for a period of
180 days. Before such work can be recommenced, a new permit shall be first
obtained to do so, and the fee therefor shall be one half the amount required
for a new permit for such work, provided no changes have been made or will be
made in the original plans and specifications for such work, and provided
further that such suspension or abandonment has not exceeded one year. In order
to renew action on a permit after expiration, the permittee shall pay a new
full permit fee.”
      (3)   IFGC 106.6.1 (Work commencing before permit issuance) is deleted in
its entirety and replaced with:
         “Any person who commences any work on a building, structure,
electrical, gas, mechanical or plumbing system before obtaining the necessary
permits may be subject to an investigation fee in an amount up to the amount of
the permit fee that would normally be accessed for the specific type of
construction activity, with any such investigation fee being in addition to all
other required permit fees. The investigation fee shall be collected whether or
not a permit is then subsequently issued.”
      (4)   IFGC 106.6.2 (Fee schedule) is deleted in its entirety and replaced
with:
         “On buildings, structures, and mechanical systems or alterations
requiring a permit; a fee for each permit shall be paid as required in
accordance with the Town of Wiggins Schedule of Fees that is periodically
updated from time to time. The determination of value or valuation under any of
the provisions of this Code shall be made by the Town.”
      (5)   IFGC 106.6.3 (Refunds) deleted in its entirety and replaced with:
         i.   “The town may authorize refunding of any fee paid hereunder which
was erroneously paid or collected.
         ii.   The town may authorize refunding of not more than 80 percent
(80%) of the permit fee paid when no work has been done under a permit issued
in accordance with this code.
         iii.   The town may authorize refunding of not more than 80 percent
(80%) of the plan review fee paid when an application for a permit for which a
plan review fee has been paid is withdrawn or cancelled before any plan
reviewing is done.
         iv.   The town shall not authorize refunding of any fee paid except on
written application filed by the original permittee not later than 180 days
after the date of fee payment.”
      (6)   IFGC 108.4 (Violation penalties) is deleted in its entirety and
replaced with:
         “It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to erect,
construct, enlarge, alter, repair, move, improve, remove, convert or demolish,
equip, use, occupy or maintain any building or structure or cause or permit the
same to be done in violation of the IFGC. In addition to other sanctions set
forth in the IFGC, a person or entity that violates the IFGC may be fined in an
amount not to exceed the maximum fine amount permitted to be imposed by the
municipal court or, as more fully set forth in §
151.99 of this code. Each day that a violation continues after due notice has
been served shall be deemed a separate offense.”
      (7)   IFGC 109.2 (Membership of board) is deleted in its entirety and
replaced with:
         “The members of the Board of Appeals shall be comprised of the members
of the Town Board of Trustees.”
      (8)   IFGC 109.2.1 through 109.2.6 are hereby deleted in their entirety.
      (9)   IFGC 109.3 (Notice of meeting) is deleted in its entirety and
replaced with:
         “The Board of Trustees shall meet upon notice from the Town Manager,
within 20 days of the filing of an appeal, or at stated periodic meetings.”
      (10)   IFGC 404.12 (Minimum burial depth) is amended by the addition of
the following: “All plastic fuel gas piping shall be installed a minimum of 18
inches (457 mm) below grade.”
      (11)   IFGC 404.12.1 (Individual outdoor appliances) is deleted in its
entirety.
      (12)   IFGC 406.4.1 (Test pressure) is amended by changing “3 psig” to
“10 psig”.
      (13)   IFGC 406.4.2 (Test duration) is amended by changing the second
sentence to read:
         “When testing a system having a volume less than 10 cubic feet or a
system in a single-family dwelling, the test duration shall be not less than 15
minutes.”
(Ord. 01-2022, passed 1-26-2022) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.05 INTERNATIONAL ENERGY CONSERVATION CODE.
   (A)   Adoption. The International Energy Conservation Code, 2018 Edition, as
published by the International Code Council, 4051 West Flossmoor Road, Country
Club Hills, IL 60478, Chapters l through 13, inclusive (IECC), is hereby
adopted by reference as the Town Energy Conservation Code as if fully set out
in this chapter with the additions, deletions, insertions and changes as
follows.
   (B)   Compliance required. No building shall be hereafter constructed,
erected, enlarged, altered or moved into the town unless the same shall, as to
design, construction, quality of materials and workmanship, conform with the
IECC, as adopted and as amended.
   (C)   Purpose. The purpose of the IECC is to regulate the design and
construction of buildings for the effective use of energy. The IECC is not
intended to abridge safety, health or environmental requirements contained in
other applicable codes or ordinances.
   (D)   Amendments. The following deletions, additions, insertions and changes
are hereby made to the IECC as adopted by reference by division (A) above.
      (1)   IECC C101.1 (Title) is amended by the addition of the term “TOWN OF
WIGGINS” where indicated.
      (2)   IECC C104.2 (Fees) is deleted in its entirety and replaced with:
         “On buildings, structures, and mechanical systems or alterations
requiring a permit; a fee for each permit shall be paid as required in
accordance with the Town of Wiggins Schedule of Fees that is periodically
updated from time to time. The determination of value or valuation under any of
the provisions of this Code shall be made by the Town.”
      (3)   IECC C104.3 (Work commencing before permit issuance) is deleted in
its entirety and replaced with:
         “Any person who commences any work on a building, structure,
electrical, gas, mechanical or plumbing system before obtaining the necessary
permits may be subject to an investigation fee in an amount up to the amount of
the permit fee that would normally be accessed for the specific type of
construction activity, with any such investigation fee being in addition to all
other required permit fees. The investigation fee shall be collected whether or
not a permit is then subsequently issued.”
      (4)   IECC C104.5 (Refunds) deleted in its entirety and replaced with:
         “The town may authorize refunding of any fee paid hereunder which was
erroneously paid or collected.
         i.   The town may authorize refunding of not more than 80 percent
(80%) of the permit fee paid when no work has been done under a permit issued
in accordance with this code.
         ii.   The town may authorize refunding of not more than 80 percent
(80%) of the plan review fee paid when an application for a permit for which a
plan review fee has been paid is withdrawn or cancelled before any plan
reviewing is done.
         iii.   The town shall not authorize refunding of any fee paid except
on written application filed by the original permittee not later than 180 days
after the date of fee payment.”
      (5)   IECC C109.1 (General) is amended by deleting the last three
paragraphs and inserting the following:
         “The members of the Board of Appeals shall be comprised of the members
of the Town Board of Trustees.”
      (6)   IECC C109.3 (Qualifications) is amended by the deletion of this
section in its entirety.
(Ord. 01-2022, passed 1-26-2022) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.06 INTERNATIONAL PROPERTY MAINTENANCE CODE.
   (A)   Adoption. The International Property Maintenance Code, 2018 Edition,
as published by the International Code Council, 4051 West Flossmoor Road,
Country Club Hills, IL 60478, Chapters 1 through 8, inclusive (IPMC), is hereby
adopted by reference as the Town Property Maintenance Code as if fully set out
in this chapter with the additions, deletions, insertions and changes as
follows.
   (B)   Compliance required. All existing residential and nonresidential
structures and premises shall conform to the requirements of the IPMC, as
adopted and as amended.
   (C)   Purpose. The purpose of the IPMC is to promulgate minimum requirements
and standards for all existing residential and nonresidential structures,
premises, equipment and facilities for light, ventilation, space, heating,
sanitation, protection from the elements, life safety, safety from fire and
other hazards and for safe and sanitary maintenance; the responsibility of
owners, operators and occupants; the occupancy of existing structures and
premises; and for administration, enforcement and penalties.
   (D)   Amendments. The following deletions, additions, insertions and changes
are hereby made to the IPMC as adopted by reference by division (A) above.
      (1)   IPMC 101.1 (Title) is amended by the addition of the term “TOWN OF
WIGGINS” where indicated.
      (2)   IPMC 102.3 (Application of other codes) is deleted in its entirety
and replaced with:
         “Repairs, additions or alterations to a structure, or changes of
occupancy, shall be done in accordance with the procedures and provisions of
the current adopted building and zoning codes.”
      (3)   IPMC 103.5 (Fees) is amended by the deletion of the section and is
replaced with:
         “Costs incurred for the performance of work shall be paid by the
applicant in an amount set forth in the Town of Wiggins Schedule of Fees that
is periodically updated from time to time.”
      (4)   IPMC 106.4 (Violation penalties) is deleted in its entirety and
replaced with:
         “It shall be unlawful for a person, firm or corporation to be in
conflict with or in violation of any of the provisions of the IPMC. In addition
to other sanctions set forth in the IPMC, a person or entity that violates the
IPMC may be fined in an amount not to exceed the maximum fine amount permitted
to be imposed by the municipal court or, as more fully set forth in §
151.99 of this code. Each day that a violation continues after due notice has
been served shall be deemed a separate offense.”
      (5)   IPMC 111.2 (Membership of board) is deleted in its entirety and
replaced with:
         “The members of the Board of Appeals shall be comprised of the members
of the Town Board of Trustees.”
      (6)   IPMC 111.3 (Notice of meeting) is deleted in its entirety and
replaced with:
         “The Board of Trustees shall meet upon notice from the Town Manager,
within 20 days of the filing of an appeal, or at stated periodic meetings.”
      (7)   IPMC 302.4 (Weeds) is amended to insert the height of weeds and
excessive plant growth to be:
         “Premises and exterior property shall be maintained free from weeds or
plant growth within the guidelines set forth by the Town of Wiggins Health &
Safety Ordinance.”
      (8)   IPMC 302.4 (Weeds) - the second paragraph is deleted in its
entirety.
      (9)   IPMC 308.2.2 (Refrigerators) is amended by the addition of the
following at the end of said section:
         “Refrigerators, appliances and similar equipment shall not be
discarded, stored, or abandoned on outdoor premises.”
      (10)   IPMC 604.2 (Service) is amended by replacing “NFPA 70” with “NFPA
70 Electrical Code adopted by the state of Colorado.”
(Ord. 01-2022, passed 1-26-2022) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.07 INTERNATIONAL EXISTING BUILDING CODE.
   (A)   Adoption. The International Existing Building Code, 2018 Edition, as
published by the International Code Council, 4051 West Flossmoor Road, Country
Club Hills, IL 60478, Chapters 1 through 16, inclusive (IEBC), is hereby
adopted by reference as the Town Existing Building Code as if fully set out in
this chapter with the additions, deletions, insertions and changes as follows.
   (B)   Compliance required. No existing building shall be hereafter repaired,
altered, have a change of occupancy, be enlarged or relocated in the town
unless the same shall conform with the IEBC, as adopted and as amended.
   (C)   Purpose. The purpose of the IEBC is to regulate the repair,
alteration, change of occupancy, addition and relocation of all existing
buildings, regardless of occupancy, subject to the criteria set forth in the
IEBC.
   (D)   Amendments. The following deletions, additions, insertions and changes
are hereby made to the IEBC as adopted by reference by division (A) above.
      (1)   IEBC 101.1 (Title) is amended by the addition of the term “TOWN OF
WIGGINS” where indicated.
      (2)   IEBC 105.2 (Work exempt from permit) is amended as follows:
         Building:
         i.   Exception #1 (Sidewalks and driveways) section is deleted
entirely.
         ii.    Exception #5 (Window awnings) section is deleted entirely.
      (3)   IEBC 105.5 (Expiration) is deleted in its entirety and replaced
with:
         “Every permit issued by the building official under the provisions of
this code shall expire by limitation and become null and void if the building
or work authorized by such permit is not commenced within 180 days from the
date of such permit, or if the building or work authorized by such permit is
suspended or abandoned at any time after the work is commenced for a period of
180 days. Before such work can be recommenced, a new permit shall be first
obtained to do so, and the fee therefor shall be one half the amount required
for a new permit for such work, provided no changes have been made or will be
made in the original plans and specifications for such work, and provided
further that such suspension or abandonment has not exceeded one year. In order
to renew action on a permit after expiration, the permittee shall pay a new
full permit fee.”
      (4)   IEBC 108.6 (Refunds) is deleted in its entirety and replaced with:
         i.   “The town may authorize refunding of any fee paid hereunder which
was erroneously paid or collected.
         ii.   The town may authorize refunding of not more than 80 percent
(80%) of the permit fee paid when no work has been done under a permit issued
in accordance with this code.
         iii.   The town may authorize refunding of not more than 80 percent
(80%) of the plan review fee paid when an application for a permit for which a
plan review fee has been paid is withdrawn or cancelled before any plan
reviewing is done.
         iv.   The town shall not authorize refunding of any fee paid except on
written application filed by the original permittee not later than 180 days
after the date of fee payment.”
      (5)   IEBC 112.3 (Qualifications) is deleted in its entirety and replaced
with: “The members of the Board of Appeals shall be comprised of the members of
the Town Board of Trustees.”
      (6)   IEBC 1401.2 (Conformance) is amended by deleting the section in its
entirety and replacing it with the following: “Structures moved into or within
the jurisdiction shall comply with the provision of this code.”
(Ord. 01-2022, passed 1-26-2022) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.08 INTERNATIONAL SWIMMING POOL AND SPA CODE.
   (A)   Adoption. The International Swimming Pool and Spa Code, 2018 Edition,
as published by the International Code Council, 4051 West Flossmoor Road,
Country Club Hills, IL 60478, Chapters 1 through 11, inclusive (ISPSC), is
hereby adopted by reference as the Town Swimming Pool and Spa Code as if fully
set out in this chapter with the additions, deletions, insertions and changes
as follows.
   (B)   Compliance required. It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or
corporation to erect, construct, alter, repair, remove, demolish or utilize any
system covered by the ISPSC, or cause the same to be done, in conflict with or
in violation of any provision of the ISPSC.
   (C)   Purpose. The purpose of the ISPSC is to establish minimum standards to
provide a reasonable level of safety and protection of public health, property
and public welfare by regulating and controlling the design, construction,
installation, quality of materials, location and maintenance or use of pools
and spas.
   (D)   Amendments. The following deletions, additions, insertions and changes
are hereby made to the ISPSC as adopted by reference by division (A) above.
      (1)   ISPSC 101.1 (Title) is amended by the addition of the term “TOWN OF
WIGGINS” where indicated.
      (2)   ISPSC 105.6.2 (Fee schedule) is amended to add: “Fees for work
shall be set forth in the Town of Wiggins Schedule of Fees that is periodically
updated from time to time.”
      (3)   ISPSC 105.5.3 (Expiration) is deleted in its entirety and replaced
with:
         “Every permit issued by the building official under the provisions of
this code shall expire by limitation and become null and void if the building
or work authorized by such permit is not commenced within 180 days from the
date of such permit, or if the building or work authorized by such permit is
suspended or abandoned at any time after the work is commenced for a period of
180 days. Before such work can be recommenced, a new permit shall be first
obtained to do so, and the fee therefor shall be one half the amount required
for a new permit for such work, provided no changes have been made or will be
made in the original plans and specifications for such work, and provided
further that such suspension or abandonment has not exceeded one year. In order
to renew action on a permit after expiration, the permittee shall pay a new
full permit fee.”
      (4)   ISPSC 105.6.1 (Working commencing before permitting issuance) is
deleted in its entirety and replaced with:
         “Any person who commences any work on a building, structure,
electrical, gas, mechanical or plumbing system before obtaining the necessary
permits may be subject to an investigation fee in an amount up to the amount of
the permit fee that would normally be accessed for the specific type of
construction activity, with any such investigation fee being in addition to all
other required permit fees. The investigation fee shall be collected whether or
not a permit is then subsequently issued.”
      (5)   ISPSC 105.6.2 (Fee schedule) is deleted in its entirety and
replaced with:
         “Costs incurred for the performance of work shall be paid by the
applicant in an amount set forth in the Town of Wiggins Schedule of Fees that
is periodically updated from time to time.”
      (6)   ISPSC 105.6.3 (Refunds) is deleted in its entirety and replaced
with:
         i.   “The town may authorize refunding of any fee paid hereunder which
was erroneously paid or collected.
         ii.   The town may authorize refunding of not more than 80 percent
(80%) of the permit fee paid when no work has been done under a permit issued
in accordance with this code.
         iii.   The town may authorize refunding of not more than 80 percent
(80%) of the plan review fee paid when an application for a permit for which a
plan review fee has been paid is withdrawn or cancelled before any plan
reviewing is done.
         iv.   The town shall not authorize refunding of any fee paid except on
written application filed by the original permittee not later than 180 days
after the date of fee payment.”
      (7)   ISPSC 107.4 (Violation penalties) is deleted in its entirety and
replaced with:
         “It shall be unlawful for a person, firm or corporation to be in
conflict with or in violation of any of the provisions of the ISPSC. In
addition to other sanctions set forth in the ISPS Code, a person or entity that
violates the ISPSC may be fined in an amount not to exceed the maximum fine
amount permitted to be imposed by the municipal court or, as more fully set
forth in §
151.99 of this code. Each day that a violation continues after due notice has
been served shall be deemed a separate offense.”
      (8)   ISPSC 108.2 (Membership of board) is deleted in its entirety and
replaced with:
         “The members of the Board of Appeals shall be comprised of the members
of the Town Board of Trustees.”
      (9)   ISPSC Section 108.3 (Notice of meeting) is deleted in its entirety
and replaced with:
         “The Board of Trustees shall meet upon notice from the Town Manager,
within 20 days of the filing of an appeal, or at stated periodic meetings.”
(Ord. 01-2022, passed 1-26-2022) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.09 INTERNATIONAL PLUMBING CODE.
   (A)   Adoption. The International Plumbing Code, 2018 edition, as published
by the International Code Council, 4051 West Flossmoor Road, Country Club
Hills, IL 60478, Chapters 1 through 15 inclusive, including all appendices
(“IPC”) is hereby adopted as the Town of Wiggins Plumbing Code. The purpose and
subject matter of the which includes comprehensive provisions regulating
plumbing installations in or in connection with new and existing structures and
providing uniform plumbing standards for the purpose of protecting the public
health, safety and general welfare.
   (B)   Compliance required. It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or
corporation to erect, construct, alter, repair, remove, demolish or utilize any
plumbing installations covered by the IPC, or cause the same to be done, in
conflict with or in violation of any provision of the IPC.
   (C)   Purpose. The purpose and subject matter of the IPC is to regulate
plumbing installations in or in connection with new and existing structures and
providing uniform plumbing standards for the purpose of protecting the public
health, safety and general welfare.
   (D)   Amendments. Additions, deletions, amendments and changes to the IPC,
as adopted by reference pursuant to division (A) above, are hereby adopted as
follows:
      (1)   IPC Section 101.1 (Title) is amended by the addition of the term
“Town of Wiggins” where indicated.
      (2)   IPC Section 305.4.1 (Sewer depth) is amended by filling in both
areas where indicated to read “12 inches (305 mm).”
      (3)   IPC Section 903.1 (Roof extension) is amended by inserting “12
inches (305 mm)” where indicated.
   (E)   Penalties for violation. It shall be unlawful for a person, firm or
corporation to be in conflict with or in violation of any of the provisions of
the IPC. In addition to other sanctions set forth in the IPC, a person or
entity that violates the IPC may be fined in an amount not to exceed the
maximum fine amount permitted to be imposed by the municipal court or, as more
fully set forth in §
151.99 of this code. Each day that a violation continues after due notice has
been served shall be deemed a separate offense.
(Ord. 01-2023, passed 4-26-2023) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.10 NATIONAL ELECTRIC CODE.
   (A)   Adoption. The National Electrical Code NFPA 70, 2020 Edition (“NEC”),
as promulgated by the National Fire Protection Association, Inc., 1
Batterymarch Park Quincy, Massachusetts, 02169-7471, and as adopted by the
state is hereby adopted by reference as the Town of Wiggins Electrical Code as
if fully set out in this section without additions, deletions, insertions or
changes, except as referenced by the State Electrical Board of the Colorado
Department of Regulatory Agencies, Division of Professions and Occupations.
   (B)   Compliance required. It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or
corporation to erect, construct, alter, repair, remove, demolish or utilize any
electrical systems covered by the NEC, or cause the same to be done, in
conflict with or in violation of any provision of the NEC.
   (C)   Purpose. The purpose and subject matter of the NEC includes minimum
regulations for the practical safeguarding of persons and property from the
hazards arising from the use of electricity and minimum standards relating to
the installation of electrical conductors and equipment within or on public and
private buildings and other structures, including mobile homes, recreational
vehicles and floating dwelling units, and other premises such as yards,
carnivals, parking and other lots and industrial substations. The NEC provides
for the issuance of permits, inspections and the collection of fees therefor.
   (D)   Amendments. None.
   (E)   Penalties for violation. It shall be unlawful for a person, firm or
corporation to be in conflict with or in violation of any of the provisions of
the NEC. In addition to other sanctions set forth in the NEC, a person or
entity that violates the NEC may be fined in an amount not to exceed the
maximum fine amount permitted to be imposed by the municipal court or as more
fully set forth in §
151.99 of this Code. Each day that a violation continues after due notice has
been served shall be deemed a separate offense.
(Ord. 01-2023, passed 4-26-2023) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.11 COPIES AVAILABLE.
   Copies of the International Building Code, 2018 Edition; the International
Residential Code, 2018 Edition; the International Mechanical Code, 2018
Edition; the International Fuel Gas Code, 2018 Edition; the International
Existing Building Code, 2018 Edition; the International Property Maintenance
Code, 2018 Edition; the International Swimming Pool and Spa Code, 2018 Edition;
the International Energy Conservation Code, 2018 Edition; the International
Plumbing Code, as currently adopted by the state; and the National Electrical
Code NFPA 70, the current edition adopted by the state (the “codes”) are open
for public inspection and available for purchase in accordance with C.R.S. §
31-16-206, said copies being available at the Town Hall, 304 E Central Avenue,
Wiggins, CO 80654.
(Ord. 01-2022, passed 1-26-2022)
§ 151.99 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm, building superintendent, building manager, contractor,
contractor’s superintendent, corporation or other entity who violates any of
the provisions of this Chapter shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and of a
separate offense for each and every day or portion thereof during which any
violation continues, and shall be punished by a fine of not more than the
maximum fine set forth in §
10.99 of this code.
CHAPTER 152: FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
Section
General Provisions
   
152.01   Statutory authorization
   
152.02   Findings of fact
   
152.03   Statement of purpose
   
152.04   Methods of reducing flood losses
   
152.05   Definitions
   
152.06   Lands to which this chapter applies
   
152.07   Basis for establishing the special flood hazard area
   
152.08   Establishment of floodplain development permit
   
152.09   Compliance
   
152.10   Abrogation and greater restrictions
   
152.11   Interpretation
   
152.12   Warning and disclaimer of liability
   
152.13   Adopting flood manuals and plans
Administration
   
152.25   Designation of the Floodplain Administrator
   
152.26   Duties and responsibilities of the Floodplain Administrator
   
152.27   Permit procedures
   
152.28   Variance procedures
Provisions for Flood Hazard Reduction
   
152.40   General standards
   
152.41   Specific standards
   
152.42   Standards for areas of shallow flood (AO/AH Zones)
   
152.43   Floodways
   
152.44   Alteration of a watercourse
   
152.45   Properties removed from the floodplain by fill
   
152.46   Standards for subdivision proposals
   
152.47   Standards for critical facilities
 
   
152.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 152.01 STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION.
   The legislature of the state has, in C.R.S. Title 29, Article 20, delegated
the responsibility of local governmental units to adopt regulations designed to
minimize flood losses. Therefore, the town does hereby adopt the following
floodplain management regulations.
(Ord. 02-14, passed 1-12-2014)
§ 152.02 FINDINGS OF FACT.
   (A)   The flood hazard areas of the town are subject to periodic inundation,
which can result in loss of life and property, health and safety hazards,
disruption of commerce and governmental services and extraordinary public
expenditures for flood protection and relief, all of which adversely affect the
health, safety and general welfare of the public.
   (B)   These flood losses are created by the cumulative effect of
obstructions in floodplains which cause an increase in flood heights and
velocities, and by the occupancy of flood hazard areas by uses vulnerable to
floods and hazardous to other lands because they are inadequately elevated,
floodproofed or otherwise protected from flood damage.
(Ord. 02-14, passed 1-12-2014)
§ 152.03 STATEMENT OF PURPOSE.
   It is the purpose of this chapter to promote public health, safety and
general welfare and to minimize public and private losses due to flood
conditions in specific areas by provisions designed to:
   (A)   Protect human life and health;
   (B)   Minimize expenditure of public money for costly flood control
projects;
   (C)   Minimize the need for rescue and relief efforts associated with
flooding and generally undertaken at the expense of the general public;
   (D)   Minimize prolonged business interruptions;
   (E)   Minimize damage to critical facilities, infrastructure and other
public facilities such as water, sewer and gas mains; electric and
communications stations; and streets and bridges located in floodplains;
   (F)   Help maintain a stable tax base by providing for the sound use and
development of flood-prone areas in such a manner as to minimize future flood
blight areas; and
   (G)   Ensure that potential buyers are notified that property is located in
a flood hazard area.
(Ord. 02-14, passed 1-12-2014)
§ 152.04 METHODS OF REDUCING FLOOD LOSSES.
   In order to accomplish its purposes, this chapter uses the following
methods:
   (A)   Restrict or prohibit uses that are dangerous to health, safety or
property in times of flood, or cause excessive increases in flood heights or
velocities;
   (B)   Require that uses vulnerable to floods, including facilities which
serve such uses, be protected against flood damage at the time of initial
construction;
   (C)   Control the alteration of natural floodplains, stream channels and
natural protective barriers, which are involved in the accommodation of flood
waters;
   (D)   Control filling, grading, dredging and other development which may
increase flood damage; and
   (E)   Prevent or regulate the construction of flood barriers which will
unnaturally divert flood waters or which may increase flood hazards to other
lands.
(Ord. 02-14, passed 1-12-2014)
§ 152.05 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   100-YEAR FLOOD. A flood having a recurrence interval that has a 1% chance of
being equaled or exceeded during any given year (1%-annual-chance flood). The
terms “onehundred-year flood” and “one percent chance flood” are synonymous
with the term “100-year flood”. The term does not imply that the flood will
necessarily happen once every 100 years.
   100-YEAR FLOODPLAIN. The area of land susceptible to being inundated as a
result of the occurrence of a 100-year flood.
   500-YEAR FLOOD. A flood having a recurrence interval that has a 0.2% chance
of being equaled or exceeded during any given year (0.2%-chance-annual-flood).
The term does not imply that the flood will necessarily happen once every 500
years.
   500-YEAR FLOODPLAIN. The area of land susceptible to being inundated as a
result of the occurrence of a 500-year flood.
   ADDITION. Any activity that expands the enclosed footprint or increases the
square footage of an existing structure.
   ALLUVIAL FAN FLOODING. A fan-shaped sediment deposit formed by a stream that
flows from a steep mountain valley or gorge onto a plain or the junction of a
tributary stream with the main stream. Alluvial fans contain active stream
channels and boulder bars and recently abandoned channels. Alluvial fans are
predominantly formed by alluvial deposits and are modified by infrequent sheet
flood, channel avulsions and other stream processes.
   AREA OF SHALLOW FLOODING. A designated Zone AO or AH on a community’s flood
insurance rate map (FIRM) with a 1% chance or greater annual chance of flooding
to an average depth of one to three feet where a clearly defined channel does
not exist, where the path of flooding is unpredictable and where velocity flow
may be evident. Such flooding is characterized by ponding or sheet flow.
   BASE FLOOD ELEVATION (BFE). The elevation shown on a FEMA flood insurance
rate map for zones AE, AH, A1 - A30, AR, AR/A, AR/AE, AR/A1 - A30, AR/AH, AR/
AO, V1 - V30 and VE that indicates the water surface elevation resulting from a
flood that has a 1% chance of equaling or exceeding that level in any given
year.
   BASEMENT. Any area of a building having its floor sub-grade (below ground
level) on all sides.
   CHANNEL. The physical confine of stream or waterway consisting of a bed and
stream banks, existing in a variety of geometries.
   CHANNELIZATION. The artificial creation, enlargement or realignment of a
stream channel.
   CODE OF FEDERAL REGULATIONS (C.F.R.). The codification of the general and
permanent rules published in the Federal Register by the executive departments
and agencies of the federal government. It is divided into 50 titles that
represent broad areas subject to federal regulation.
   COMMUNITY. Any political subdivision in the state that has authority to
adopt and enforce floodplain management regulations through zoning, including,
but not limited to, cities, towns, unincorporated areas in the counties, Indian
tribes and drainage and flood control districts.
   CONDITIONAL LETTER OF MAP REVISION (CLOMR). FEMA’s comment on a proposed
project, which does not revise an effective floodplain map, that would, upon
construction, affect the hydrologic or hydraulic characteristics of a flooding
source and thus result in the modification of the existing regulatory
floodplain.
   CRITICAL FACILITY. A structure or related infrastructure, but not the land
on which it is situated, as specified in §
152.47, that if flooded may result in significant hazards to public health and
safety or interrupt essential services and operations for the community at any
time before, during and after a flood. See §
152.47.
   DEVELOPMENT. Any human-made change in improved and unimproved real estate,
including, but not limited to, buildings or other structures, mining, dredging,
filling, grading, paving, excavation or drilling operations or storage of
equipment or materials.
   DFIRM DATABASE. Database (usually spreadsheets containing data and analyses
that accompany DFIRMs). The FEMA “Mapping Specifications and Guidelines”
outline requirements for the development and maintenance of DFIRM databases.
   DIGITAL FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (DFIRM). FEMA digital floodplain map. These
digital maps serve as “regulatory floodplain maps” for insurance and floodplain
management purposes.
   ELEVATED BUILDING.
      (1)   A non-basement building:
         (a)   Built, in the case of a building in zones A1 - 30, AE, A, A99,
AO, AH, B, C, X and D, to have the top of the elevated floor above the ground
level by means of pilings, columns (posts and piers) or shear walls parallel to
the flow of the water; and
         (b)   Adequately anchored so as not to impair the structural integrity
of the building during a flood of up to the magnitude of the base flood.
      (2)   In the case of zones A1 - 30, AE, A, A99, AO, AH, B, C, X and D,
ELEVATED BUILDING also includes a building elevated by means of fill or solid
foundation perimeter walls with openings sufficient to facilitate the unimpeded
movement of flood waters.
   EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including, at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed before the effective date
of the floodplain management regulations adopted by a community.
   EXPANSION TO AN EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. The
preparation of additional sites by the construction of facilities for servicing
the lots on which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads).
   FEDERAL REGISTER. The official daily publication for rules, proposed rules
and notices of federal agencies and organizations, as well as executive orders
and other presidential documents.
   FEMA. Federal Emergency Management Agency, the agency responsible for
administering the National Flood Insurance Program.
   FLOOD or FLOODING. A general and temporary condition of partial or complete
inundation of normally dry land areas from:
      (1)   The overflow of water from channels and reservoir spillways;
      (2)   The unusual and rapid accumulation or runoff of surface waters from
any source; or
      (3)   Mudslides or mudflows that occur from excess surface water that is
combined with mud or other debris that is sufficiently fluid so as to flow over
the surface of normally dry land areas (such as earth carried by a current of
water and deposited along the path of the current).
   FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (FIRM). An official map of a community, on which
the Federal Emergency Management Agency has delineated both the special flood
hazard areas and the risk premium zones applicable to the community.
   FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY (FIS). The official report provided by the Federal
Emergency Management Agency. The report contains the flood insurance rate map
as well as flood profiles for studied flooding sources that can be used to
determine base flood elevations for some areas.
   FLOODPLAIN or FLOOD-PRONE AREA. Any land area susceptible to being inundated
as the result of a flood, including the area of land over which flood water
would flow from the spillway of a reservoir.
   FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR. The community official designated by title to
administer and enforce the floodplain management regulations.
   FLOODPLAIN DEVELOPMENT PERMIT. A permit required before construction or
development begins within any special flood hazard area (SFHA). If FEMA has not
defined the SFHA within a community, the community shall require permits for
all proposed construction or other development in the community including the
placement of manufactured homes, so that it may determine whether such
construction or other development is proposed within flood-prone areas. Permits
are required to ensure that proposed development projects meet the requirements
of the NFIP and this chapter.
   FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT. The operation of an overall program of corrective and
preventive measures for reducing flood damage, including, but not limited to,
emergency preparedness plans, flood control works and floodplain management
regulations.
   FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT REGULATIONS. Zoning ordinances, subdivision
regulations, building codes, health regulations, special purpose ordinances
(such as a floodplain ordinance, grading ordinance and erosion control
ordinance) and other applications of police power. The term describes such
state or local regulations, in any combination thereof, which provide standards
for the purpose of flood damage prevention and reduction.
   FLOODPROOFING. Any combination of structural and/or non-structural
additions, changes or adjustments to structures which reduce or eliminate flood
damage to real estate or improved real property, water and sanitary facilities,
structures and their contents.
   FLOODWAY (REGULATORY FLOODWAY). The channel of a river or other watercourse
and adjacent land areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the base
flood without cumulatively increasing the water surface elevation more than a
designated height. The statewide standard for the designated height to be used
for all newly studied reaches shall be one-half foot (six inches). Letters of
map revision to existing FLOODWAY delineations may continue to use the FLOODWAY
criteria in place at the time of the existing FLOODWAY delineation.
   FLOOD CONTROL STRUCTURE. A physical structure designed and built expressly
or partially for the purpose of reducing, redirecting or guiding flood flows
along a particular waterway. These specialized flood modifying works are those
constructed in conformance with sound engineering standards.
   FREEBOARD. The vertical distance in feet above a predicted water surface
elevation intended to provide a margin of safety to compensate for unknown
factors that could contribute to flood heights greater than the height
calculated for a selected size flood such as debris blockage of bridge openings
and the increased runoff due to urbanization of the watershed.
   FUNCTIONALLY DEPENDENT USE. A use which cannot perform its intended purpose
unless it is located or carried out in close proximity to water. The term
includes only docking facilities, port facilities that are necessary for the
loading and unloading of cargo or passengers and ship building and ship repair
facilities, but does not include long-term storage or related manufacturing
facilities.
   HIGHEST ADJACENT GRADE. The highest natural elevation of the ground surface
prior to construction next to the proposed walls of a structure.
   HISTORIC STRUCTURE. Any structure that is:
      (1)   Listed individually in the National Register of Historic Places (a
listing maintained by the Department of Interior) or preliminarily determined
by the Secretary of the Interior as meeting the requirements for individual
listing on the National Register;
      (2)   Certified or preliminarily determined by the Secretary of the
Interior as contributing to the historical significance of a registered
historic district or a district preliminarily determined by the Secretary to
qualify as a registered historic district;
      (3)   Individually listed on a state inventory of historic places in
states with historic preservation programs which have been approved by the
Secretary of Interior; or
      (4)   Individually listed on a local inventory of historic places in
communities with historic preservation programs that have been certified
either:
         (a)   By an approved state program as determined by the Secretary of
the Interior; or
         (b)   Directly by the Secretary of the Interior in states without
approved programs.
   LETTER OF MAP REVISION (LOMR). FEMA’s official revision of an effective
flood insurance rate map (FIRM), or flood boundary and floodway map (FBFM), or
both. LOMRs are generally based on the implementation of physical measures that
affect the hydrologic or hydraulic characteristics of a flooding source and
thus result in the modification of the existing regulatory floodway, the
effective base flood elevations (BFEs) or the special flood hazard area (SFHA).
   LETTER OF MAP REVISION BASED ON FILL (LOMR-F). FEMA’s modification of the
special flood hazard area (SFHA) shown on the flood insurance rate map (FIRM)
based on the placement of fill outside the existing regulatory floodway.
   LEVEE. A human-made embankment, usually earthen, designed and constructed in
accordance with sound engineering practices to contain, control or divert the
flow of water so as to provide protection from temporary flooding. For a LEVEE
structure to be reflected on the FEMA FIRMs as providing flood protection, the
LEVEE structure must meet the requirements set forth in 44 C.F.R. § 65.10.
   LEVEE SYSTEM. A flood protection system which consists of a levee or levees,
and associated structures, such as closure and drainage devices, which are
constructed and operated in accordance with sound engineering practices.
   LOWEST FLOOR. The lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area (including
basement). Any floor used for living purposes which includes working, storage,
sleeping, cooking and eating or recreation or any combination thereof. This
includes any floor that could be converted to such a use such as a basement or
crawl space. The LOWEST FLOOR is a determinate for the flood insurance premium
for a building, home or business. An unfinished or flood-resistant enclosure,
usable solely for parking or vehicles, building access or storage in an area
other than a basement area is not considered a building’s lowest floor;
provided that such enclosure is not built so as to render the structure in
violation of the applicable non-elevation design requirement of § 60.3 of the
National Flood Insurance Program regulations.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. A structure transportable in one or more sections, which
is built on a permanent chassis and is designed for use with or without a
permanent foundation when connected to the required utilities. The term
MANUFACTURED HOME does not include a RECREATIONAL VEHICLE.
   MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A parcel (or contiguous parcels) of
land divided into two or more manufactured home lots for rent or sale.
   MATERIAL SAFETY DATA SHEET (MSDS). A form with data regarding the properties
of a particular substance. An important component of product stewardship and
workplace safety, it is intended to provide workers and emergency personnel
with procedures for handling or working with that substance in a safe manner,
and includes information such as physical data (melting point, boiling point,
flash point and the like), toxicity, health effects, first aid, reactivity,
storage, disposal, protective equipment and spill-handling procedures.
   MEAN SEA LEVEL. For purposes of the National Flood Insurance Program, the
North American Vertical Datum (NAVD) of 1988 or other datum to which base flood
elevations shown on a community’s flood insurance rate map are referenced.
   NATIONAL FLOOD INSURANCE PROGRAM (NFIP). FEMA’s program of flood insurance
coverage and floodplain management administered in conjunction with the Robert
T. Stafford Relief and Emergency Assistance Act. The NFIP has applicable
federal regulations promulgated in Title 44 of the Code of Federal Regulations.
The U.S. Congress established the NFIP in 1968 with the passage of the National
Flood Insurance Act of 1968.
   NEW MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including, at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed on or after the effective
date of floodplain management regulations adopted by a community.
   NO-RISE CERTIFICATION. A record of the results of an engineering analysis
conducted to determine whether a project will increase flood heights in a
floodway. A NO-RISE CERTIFICATION must be supported by technical data and
signed by a registered state professional engineer. The supporting technical
data should be based on the standard step-backwater computer model used to
develop the 100-year floodway shown on the flood insurance rate map (FIRM) or
flood boundary and floodway map (FBFM).
   PHYSICAL MAP REVISION (PMR). FEMA’s action whereby one or more map panels
are physically revised and republished. A PMR is used to change flood risk
zones, floodplain and/or floodway delineations, flood elevations and/or
planimetric features.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. A vehicle which is:
      (1)   Built on a single chassis;
      (2)   400 square feet or less when measured at the largest horizontal
projections;
      (3)   Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light
duty truck; and
      (4)   Designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling but as
temporary living quarters for recreational, camping, travel or seasonal use.
   SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA. The land in the floodplain within a community
subject to a 1% or greater chance of flooding in any given year, i.e., the 100-
year floodplain.
   START OF CONSTRUCTION. The date the building permit was issued, including
substantial improvements; provided the actual start of construction, repair,
reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition, placement or other improvement was
within 180 days of the permit date. The ACTUAL START means either the first
placement of permanent construction of a structure on a site, such as the
pouring of slab or footings, the installation of piles, the construction of
columns or any work beyond the stage of excavation; or the placement of a
manufactured home on a foundation. Permanent construction does not include land
preparation, such as clearing, grading and filling; nor does it include the
installation of streets and/or walkways; nor does it include excavation for
basement, footings, piers or foundations or the erection of temporary forms;
nor does it include the installation on the property of accessory buildings,
such as garages or sheds not occupied as dwelling units or not part of the main
structure. For a substantial improvement, the ACTUAL START OF CONSTRUCTION
means the first alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor or other structural part
of a building, whether or not that alteration affects the external dimensions
of the building.
   STRUCTURE. A walled and roofed building, including a gas or liquid storage
tank, which is principally above ground, as well as a manufactured home.
   SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE. Damage of any origin sustained by a structure whereby
the cost of restoring the structure to its before-damaged condition would equal
or exceed 50% of the market value of the structure just prior to when the
damage occurred.
   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT.
      (1)   Any reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition or other improvement
of a structure, the cost of which equals or exceeds 50% of the market value of
the structure before “start of construction” of the improvement. The value of
the structure shall be determined by the local jurisdiction having land use
authority in the area of interest. This includes structures which have incurred
“substantial damage”, regardless of the actual repair work performed.
      (2)   The term does not, however, include either:
         (a)   Any project for improvement of a structure to correct existing
violations of state or local health, sanitary or safety code specifications
which have been identified by the local code enforcement official and which are
the minimum necessary conditions; or
         (b)   Any alteration of a “historic structure provided that the
alteration will not preclude the structure’s continued designation as a
historic structure”.
   THRESHOLD PLANNING QUANTITY (TPQ). A quantity designated for each chemical
on the list of extremely hazardous substances that triggers notification by
facilities to the state that such facilities are subject to emergency planning
requirements.
   VARIANCE.
      (1)   A grant of relief to a person from the requirement of this
ordinance when specific enforcement would result in unnecessary hardship.
      (2)   A VARIANCE, therefore, permits construction or development in a
manner otherwise prohibited by this chapter. (For full requirements see § 60.6
of the National Flood Insurance Program regulations).
   VIOLATION. The failure of a structure or other development to be fully
compliant with the community’s floodplain management regulations. A structure
or other development without the elevation certificate, other certifications or
other evidence of compliance required in §§ 60.3(b)(5), (c)(4), (c)(10), (d)
(3), (e)(2), (e)(4) or (e)(5) of the National Food Insurance Program is
presumed to be in VIOLATION until such time as that documentation is provided.
   WATER SURFACE ELEVATION. The height, in relation to the North American
Vertical Datum (NAVD) of 1988 (or other datum, where specified), of floods of
various magnitudes and frequencies in the floodplains of coastal or riverine
areas.
(Ord. 02-14, passed 1-12-2014)
§ 152.06 LANDS TO WHICH THIS CHAPTER APPLIES.
   This chapter shall apply to all special flood hazard areas and areas removed
from the floodplain by the issuance of a FEMA letter of map revision based on
fill (LOMR-F) within the jurisdiction of the town.
(Ord. 02-14, passed 1-12-2014)
§ 152.07 BASIS FOR ESTABLISHING THE SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA.
   (A)   The special flood hazard areas identified by the Federal Emergency
Management Agency in a scientific and engineering report entitled, “The Flood
Insurance Study for Wiggins”, dated April 4, 2018, with accompanying flood
insurance rate maps and/or flood boundary-floodway maps (FIRM and/or FBFM) and
any revisions thereto are hereby adopted by reference and declared to be a part
of this chapter.
   (B)   These special flood hazard areas identified by the FIS and attendant
mapping are the minimum area of applicability of this chapter and may be
supplemented by studies designated and approved by the Board of Trustees. The
Floodplain Administrator shall keep a copy of the flood insurance study (FIS),
DFIRMs, FIRMs and/or FBFMs on file and available for public inspection.
(Ord. 02-14, passed 1-12-2014; Ord. 18-2017, passed 12-13-2017)
§ 152.08 ESTABLISHMENT OF FLOODPLAIN DEVELOPMENT PERMIT.
   A floodplain development permit shall be required to ensure conformance with
the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 02-14, passed 1-12-2014) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.09 COMPLIANCE.
   (A)   (1)   No structure or land shall hereafter be located, altered or have
its use changed within the special flood hazard area without full compliance
with the terms of this chapter and other applicable regulations.
      (2)   Nothing herein shall prevent the Board of Trustees from taking such
lawful action as is necessary to prevent or remedy any violation.
   (B)   These regulations meet the minimum requirements as set forth by the
State Water Conservation Board and the National Flood Insurance Program.
(Ord. 02-14, passed 1-12-2014) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.10 ABROGATION AND GREATER RESTRICTIONS.
   This chapter is not intended to repeal, abrogate or impair any existing
easements, covenants or deed restrictions. However, where this chapter and
another ordinance, easement, covenant nor deed restriction conflict or overlap,
whichever imposes the more stringent restrictions shall prevail.
(Ord. 02-14, passed 1-12-2014)
§ 152.11 INTERPRETATION.
   In the interpretation and application of this chapter, all provisions shall
be:
   (A)   Considered as minimum requirements;
   (B)   Liberally construed in favor of the governing body; and
   (C)   Deemed neither to limit nor repeal any other powers granted under
state statutes.
(Ord. 02-14, passed 1-12-2014)
§ 152.12 WARNING AND DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY.
   (A)   The degree of flood protection required by this chapter is considered
reasonable for regulatory purposes and is based on scientific and engineering
considerations. On rare occasions, greater floods can and will occur and flood
heights may be increased by human-made or natural causes.
   (B)   This chapter does not imply that land outside the special flood hazard
area or uses permitted within such areas will be free from flooding or flood
damages.
   (C)   This chapter shall not create liability on the part of the community
or any official or employee thereof for any flood damages that result from
reliance on this chapter or any administrative decision lawfully made
thereunder.
(Ord. 02-14, passed 1-12-2014)
§ 152.13 ADOPTING FLOOD MANUALS AND PLANS.
   The Town Board of Trustees hereby adopts the Kiowa Creek Flood Protection
Operations and Maintenance Manual which includes the Town of Wiggins Flood
Warning Plan and the town’s Flood Operations Plan and authorizes the Mayor to
sign the agreement with the State Water Conservation Board.
(Ord. 4-1988, passed 12-7-1988)
ADMINISTRATION
§ 152.25 DESIGNATION OF THE FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR.
   The Town Manager, or his or her designee, is hereby appointed as Floodplain
Administrator to administer, implement and enforce the provisions of this
chapter and other appropriate sections of Title 44 of the Code Federal
Regulations (National Flood Insurance Program Regulations) pertaining to
floodplain management.
(Ord. 02-14, passed 1-12-2014)
§ 152.26 DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR.
   Duties and responsibilities of the Floodplain Administrator shall include,
but not be limited to, the following:
   (A)   Maintain and hold open for public inspection all records pertaining to
the provisions of this chapter, including the actual elevation (in relation to
mean sea level) of the lowest floor (including basement) of all new or
substantially improved structures and any floodproofing certificate required by
§
152.27;
   (B)   Review, approve or deny all applications for floodplain development
permits required by adoption of this chapter;
   (C)   Review floodplain development permit applications to determine whether
a proposed building site, including the placement of manufactured homes, will
be reasonably safe from flooding;
   (D)   Review permits for proposed development to assure that all necessary
permits have been obtained from those federal, state or local governmental
agencies (including § 404 of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act Amendments
of 1972, 33 U.S.C. § 1334) from which prior approval is required;
   (E)   Inspect all development at appropriate times during the period of
construction to ensure compliance with all provisions of this chapter,
including proper elevation of the structure;
   (F)   Where interpretation is needed as to the exact location of the
boundaries of the special flood hazard area (for example, where there appears
to be a conflict between a mapped boundary and actual field conditions), the
Floodplain Administrator shall make the necessary interpretation;
   (G)   When base flood elevation data has not been provided in accordance
with §
152.07, the Floodplain Administrator shall obtain, review and reasonably
utilize any base flood elevation data and floodway data available from a
federal, state or other source, in order to administer the provisions of §§
152.40 through
152.47;
   (H)   For waterways with base flood elevations for which a regulatory
floodway has not been designated, no new construction, substantial improvements
or other development (including fill) shall be permitted within zones A1 - 30
and AE on the community’s FIRM, unless it is demonstrated that the cumulative
effect of the proposed development, when combined with all other existing and
anticipated development, will not increase the water surface elevation of the
base flood more than one-half foot at any point within the community;
   (I)   Under the provisions of 44 C.F.R. § 65.12 of the National Flood
Insurance Program regulations, a community may approve certain development in
zones A1 - 30, AE, AH, on the community’s FIRM which increases the water
surface elevation of the base flood by more than one-half foot; provided that
the community first applies for a conditional FIRM revision through FEMA
(conditional letter of map revision), fulfills the requirements for such
revisions as established under the provisions of § 65.12 and receives FEMA
approval;
   (J)   Notify, in riverine situations, adjacent communities and the State
Coordinating Agency, which is the State Water Conservation Board, prior to any
alteration or relocation of a watercourse, and submit evidence of such
notification to FEMA; and
   (K)   Ensure that the flood carrying capacity within the altered or
relocated portion of any watercourse is maintained.
(Ord. 02-14, passed 1-12-2014)
§ 152.27 PERMIT PROCEDURES.
   (A)   (1)   Application for a floodplain development permit shall be
presented to the Floodplain Administrator on forms furnished by him or her and
may include, but not be limited to, plans in duplicate drawn to scale showing
the location, dimensions and elevation of proposed landscape alterations;
existing and proposed structures, including the placement of manufactured
homes; and the location of the foregoing in relation to special flood hazard
area.
      (2)   Additionally, the following information is required:
         (a)   Elevation (in relation to mean sea level) of the lowest floor
(including basement) of all new and substantially improved structures;
         (b)   Elevation in relation to mean sea level to which any
nonresidential structure shall be floodproofed;
         (c)   A certificate from a registered state professional engineer or
architect that the nonresidential floodproofed structure shall meet the
floodproofing criteria of §
152.41(B);
         (d)   Description of the extent to which any watercourse or natural
drainage will be altered or relocated as a result of proposed development; and
         (e)   Maintain a record of all such information in accordance with §
152.26.
   (B)   Approval or denial of a floodplain development permit by the
Floodplain Administrator shall be based on all of the provisions of this
chapter and the following relevant factors:
      (1)   The danger to life and property due to flooding or erosion damage;
      (2)   The susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents to
flood damage and the effect of such damage on the individual owner;
      (3)   The danger that materials may be swept onto other lands to the
injury of others;
      (4)   The compatibility of the proposed use with existing and anticipated
development;
      (5)   The safety of access to the property in times of flood for ordinary
and emergency vehicles;
      (6)   The costs of providing governmental services during and after flood
conditions, including maintenance and repair of streets and bridges, and public
utilities and facilities, such as sewer, gas, electrical and water systems;
      (7)   The expected heights, velocity, duration, rate of rise and sediment
transport of the flood waters and the effects of wave action, if applicable,
expected at the site;
      (8)   The necessity to the facility of a waterfront location, where
applicable;
      (9)   The availability of alternative locations, not subject to flooding
or erosion damage, for the
proposed use; and
      (10)   The relationship of the proposed use to the comprehensive plan for
that area.
(Ord. 02-14, passed 1-12-2014)
§ 152.28 VARIANCE PROCEDURES.
   (A)   The Appeal Board, as established by the community, shall hear and
render judgment on requests for variances from the requirements of this
chapter.
   (B)   The Appeal Board shall hear and render judgment on an appeal only when
it is alleged there is an error in any requirement, decision or determination
made by the Floodplain Administrator in the enforcement or administration of
this chapter.
   (C)   Any person or persons aggrieved by the decision of the Appeal Board
may appeal such decision in the courts of competent jurisdiction.
   (D)   The Floodplain Administrator shall maintain a record of all actions
involving an appeal and shall report variances to the Federal Emergency
Management Agency upon request.
   (E)   (1)   Variances may be issued for new construction and substantial
improvements to be erected on a lot of one-half acre or less in size contiguous
to and surrounded by lots with existing structures constructed below the base
flood level, providing the relevant factors in §
152.27 have been fully considered.
      (2)   As the lot size increases beyond the one-half acre, the technical
justification required for issuing the variance increases.
   (F)   Upon consideration of the factors noted above and the intent of this
chapter, the Appeal Board may attach such conditions to the granting of
variances as it deems necessary to further the purpose and objectives of this
chapter as stated in §
152.03.
   (G)   Variances shall not be issued within any designated floodway if any
increase in flood levels during the base flood discharge would result.
   (H)   Variances may be issued for the repair or rehabilitation of historic
structures upon a determination that the proposed repair or rehabilitation will
not preclude the structure’s continued designation as a historic structure and
the variance is the minimum necessary to preserve the historic character and
design of the structure.
   (I)   Prerequisites for granting variances include the following.
      (1)   Variances shall only be issued upon a determination that the
variance is the minimum necessary, considering the flood hazard, to afford
relief.
      (2)   Variances shall only be issued upon:
         (a)   Showing a good and sufficient cause;
         (b)   A determination that failure to grant the variance would result
in exceptional hardship to the applicant; and
         (c)   A determination that the granting of a variance will not result
in increased flood heights, additional threats to public safety, extraordinary
public expense, create nuisances, cause fraud on or victimization of the public
or conflict with existing local laws or ordinances.
      (3)   Any applicant to whom a variance is granted shall be given written
notice that the structure will be permitted to be built with the lowest floor
elevation below the base flood elevation, and that the cost of flood insurance
will be commensurate with the increased risk resulting from the reduced lowest
floor elevation.
   (J)   Variances may be issued by a community for new construction and
substantial improvements and for other development necessary for the conduct of
a functionally dependent use provided that:
      (1)   The criteria outlined in divisions (A) through (I) above are met;
and
      (2)   The structure or other development is protected by methods that
minimize flood damages during the base flood and create no additional threats
to public safety.
(Ord. 02-14, passed 1-12-2014)
PROVISIONS FOR FLOOD HAZARD REDUCTION
§ 152.40 GENERAL STANDARDS.
   In all special flood hazard areas, the following provisions are required for
all new construction and substantial improvements.
   (A)   All new construction or substantial improvements shall be designed (or
modified) and adequately anchored to prevent flotation, collapse or lateral
movement of the structure resulting from hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads,
including the effects of buoyancy.
   (B)   All new construction or substantial improvements shall be constructed
by methods and practices that minimize flood damage.
   (C)   All new construction or substantial improvements shall be constructed
with materials resistant to flood damage.
   (D)   All new construction or substantial improvements shall be constructed
with electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing and air conditioning equipment
and other service facilities that are designed and/or located so as to prevent
water from entering or accumulating within the components during conditions of
flooding.
   (E)   (1)   All manufactured homes shall be installed using methods and
practices which minimize flood damage. For the purposes of this requirement,
manufactured homes must be elevated and anchored to resist flotation, collapse
or lateral movement.
      (2)   Methods of anchoring may include, but are not limited to, use of
over-the-top or frame ties to ground anchors. This requirement is in addition
to applicable state and local anchoring requirements for resisting wind forces.
   (F)   All new and replacement water supply systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the system.
   (G)   New and replacement sanitary sewage systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the system and
discharge from the systems into flood waters.
   (H)   On-site waste disposal systems shall be located to avoid impairment to
them or contamination from them during flooding.
(Ord. 02-14, passed 1-12-2014) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.41 SPECIFIC STANDARDS.
   In all special flood hazard areas where base flood elevation data has been
provided as set forth in §§
152.07,
152.26(G) or
152.46, the following provisions are required.
   (A)   Residential construction. New construction and substantial improvement
of any residential structure shall have the lowest floor (including basement),
electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing and air conditioning equipment and
other service facilities (including ductwork), elevated to one foot above the
base flood elevation. Upon completion of the structure, the elevation of the
lowest floor, including basement, shall be certified by a registered state
professional engineer, architect or land surveyor. Such certification shall be
submitted to the Floodplain Administrator.
   (B)   Nonresidential construction.
      (1)   With the exception of critical facilities, outlined in §
152.47, new construction and substantial improvements of any commercial,
industrial or other nonresidential structure shall either have the lowest floor
(including basement), electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing and air
conditioning equipment and other service facilities (including ductwork),
elevated to one foot above the base flood elevation or, together with attendant
utility and sanitary facilities, be designed so that at one foot above the base
flood elevation the structure is water-tight with walls substantially
impermeable to the passage of water and with structural components having the
capability of resisting hydrostatic and hydrodynamic loads and effects of
buoyancy.
      (2)   A registered state professional engineer or architect shall develop
and/or review structural design, specifications and plans for the construction,
and shall certify that the design and methods of construction are in accordance
with accepted standards of practice as outlined in this division (B). Such
certification shall be maintained by the Floodplain Administrator, as proposed
in §
152.27.
   (C)   Enclosures.
      (1)   New construction and substantial improvements, with fully enclosed
areas below the lowest floor that are usable solely for parking of vehicles,
building access or storage in an area other than a basement and which are
subject to flooding shall be designed to automatically equalize hydrostatic
flood forces on exterior walls by allowing for the entry and exit of flood
waters.
      (2)   Designs for meeting this requirement must either be certified by a
registered state professional engineer or architect or meet or exceed the
following minimum criteria.
         (a)   A minimum of two openings having a total net area of not less
than one square inch for every square foot of enclosed area subject to flooding
shall be provided.
         (b)   The bottom of all openings shall be no higher than one foot
above grade.
         (c)   Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, valves or other
coverings or devices provided that they permit the automatic entry and exit of
flood waters.
   (D)   Manufactured homes.
      (1)   All manufactured homes that are placed or substantially improved
within zones A1 - 30, AH and AE on the community’s FIRM on sites:
         (a)   Outside of a manufactured home park or subdivision;
         (b)   In a new manufactured home park or subdivision;
         (c)   In an expansion to an existing manufactured home park or
subdivision; or
         (d)   In an existing manufactured home park or subdivision on which
manufactured home has incurred “substantial damage” as a result of a flood; be
elevated on a permanent foundation such that the lowest floor of the
manufactured home, electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing and air
conditioning equipment; and other service facilities (including ductwork) are
elevated to one foot above the base flood elevation and be securely anchored to
an adequately anchored foundation system to resist flotation, collapse and
lateral movement.
      (2)   All manufactured homes placed or substantially improved on sites in
an existing manufactured home park or subdivision within zones A1 - 30, AH and
AE on the community’s FIRM that are not subject to the provisions of division
(D)(1) above, shall be elevated so that either:
         (a)   The lowest floor of the manufactured home, electrical, heating,
ventilation, plumbing and air conditioning equipment and other service
facilities (including ductwork) are one foot above the base flood elevation; or
         (b)   The manufactured home chassis is supported by reinforced piers
or other foundation elements of at least equivalent strength that are no less
than 36 inches in height above grade and be securely anchored to an adequately
anchored foundation system to resist flotation, collapse and lateral movement.
   (E)   Recreational vehicles.
      (1)   All recreational vehicles placed on sites within zones A1 - 30, AH
and AE on the community’s FIRM either:
         (a)   Be on the site for fewer than 180 consecutive days;
         (b)   Be fully licensed and ready for highway use; or
         (c)   Meet the permit requirements of §
152.27, and the elevation and anchoring requirements for “manufactured homes”
in division (D) above.
      (2)   A recreational vehicle is ready for highway use if it is on its
wheels or jacking system, is attached to the site only by quick disconnect type
utilities and security devices and has no permanently attached additions.
   (F)   Prior approved activities. Any activity for which a floodplain
development permit was issued by the town or a CLOMR was issued by FEMA prior
to January 8, 2014 may be completed according to the standards in place at the
time of the permit or CLOMR issuance and will not be considered in violation of
this chapter if it meets such standards.
(Ord. 02-14, passed 1-12-2014) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.42 STANDARDS FOR AREAS OF SHALLOW FLOOD (AO/AH ZONES).
   (A)   (1)   Located within the special flood hazard area established in §
152.07, are areas designated as shallow flooding.
      (2)   These areas have special flood hazards associated with base flood
depths of one to three feet where a clearly defined channel does not exist and
where the path of flooding is unpredictable and where velocity flow may be
evident.
   (B)   Such flooding is characterized by ponding or sheet flow; therefore,
the following provisions apply.
      (1)   Residential construction.
         (a)   All new construction and substantial improvements of residential
structures must have the lowest floor (including basement), electrical,
heating, ventilation, plumbing and air conditioning equipment and other service
facilities (including ductwork), elevated above the highest adjacent grade at
least one foot above the depth number specified in feet on the community’s FIRM
(at least three feet if no depth number is specified).
         (b)   Upon completion of the structure, the elevation of the lowest
floor, including basement, shall be certified by a registered state
professional engineer, architect or land surveyor. Such certification shall be
submitted to the Floodplain Administrator.
      (2)   Nonresidential construction.
         (a)   With the exception of critical facilities, outlined in §
152.47, all new construction and substantial improvements of nonresidential
structures must have the lowest floor (including basement), electrical,
heating, ventilation, plumbing and air conditioning equipment and other service
facilities (including ductwork), elevated above the highest adjacent grade at
least one foot above the depth number specified in feet on the community’s FIRM
(at least three feet if no depth number is specified), or together with
attendant utility and sanitary facilities, be designed so that the structure is
water-tight to at least one foot above the base flood level with walls
substantially impermeable to the passage of water and with structural
components having the capability of resisting hydrostatic and hydrodynamic
loads of effects of buoyancy. A registered state professional engineer or
architect shall submit a certification to the Floodplain Administrator that the
standards of this section, as proposed in §
152.27, are satisfied.
         (b)   Within zones AH or AO, adequate drainage paths around structures
on slopes are required to guide flood waters around and away from proposed
structures.
(Ord. 02-14, passed 1-12-2014) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.43 FLOODWAYS.
   (A)   (1)   Floodways are administrative limits and tools used to regulate
existing and future floodplain development. The state has adopted floodway
standards that are more stringent than the FEMA minimum standard. (See
definition of FLOODWAY in §
152.05.)
      (2)   Located within special flood hazard area established in §
152.07 are areas designated as floodways.
   (B)   Since the floodway is an extremely hazardous area due to the velocity
of flood waters which carry debris, potential projectiles and erosion
potential, the following provisions shall apply.
      (1)   Encroachments are prohibited, including fill, new construction,
substantial improvements and other development within the adopted regulatory
floodway unless it has been demonstrated through hydrologic and hydraulic
analyses performed by a licensed state professional engineer and in accordance
with standard engineering practice that the proposed encroachment would not
result in any increase (requires a no-rise certification) in flood levels
within the community during the occurrence of the base flood discharge.
      (2)   If division (A) above is satisfied, all new construction and
substantial improvements shall comply with all applicable flood hazard
reduction provisions of §§
152.40 through
152.47.
      (3)   Under the provisions of 44 C.F.R. § 65.12 of the National Flood
Insurance Regulations, a community may permit encroachments within the adopted
regulatory floodway that would result in an increase in base flood elevations;
provided that the community fast applies for a CLOMR and floodway revision
through FEMA.
(Ord. 02-14, passed 1-12-2014) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.44 ALTERATION OF A WATERCOURSE.
   For all proposed developments that alter a watercourse within a special
flood hazard area, the following standards apply.
   (A)   (1)   Channelization and flow diversion projects shall appropriately
consider issues of sediment transport, erosion, deposition and channel
migration and properly mitigate potential problems through the project as well
as upstream and downstream of any improvement activity.
      (2)   A detailed analysis of sediment transport and overall channel
stability should be considered, when appropriate, to assist in determining the
most appropriate design.
   (B)   Channelization and flow diversion projects shall evaluate the residual
100-year floodplain.
   (C)   Any channelization or other stream alteration activity proposed by a
project proponent must be evaluated for its impact on the regulatory floodplain
and be in compliance with all applicable federal, state and local floodplain
rules, regulations and ordinances.
   (D)   Any stream alteration activity shall be designed and sealed by a
registered state professional engineer or certified professional hydrologist.
   (E)   All activities within the regulatory floodplain shall meet all
applicable federal, state and town floodplain requirements and regulations.
   (F)   Within the regulatory floodway, stream alteration activities shall not
be constructed unless the project proponent demonstrates through a floodway
analysis and report, sealed by a registered state professional engineer, that
there is not more than a 0.00-foot rise in the proposed conditions compared to
existing conditions floodway resulting from the project, otherwise known as a
no-rise certification, unless the community first applies for a CLOMR and
floodway revision in accordance with §
152.43.
   (G)   Maintenance shall be required for any altered or relocated portions of
watercourses so that the flood-carrying capacity is not diminished.
(Ord. 02-14, passed 1-12-2014) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.45 PROPERTIES REMOVED FROM THE FLOODPLAIN BY FILL.
   A floodplain development permit shall not be issued for the construction of
a new structure or addition to an existing structure on a property removed from
the floodplain by the issuance of a FEMA letter of map revision based on fill
(LOMR-F), unless such new structure or addition complies with the following.
   (A)   Residential construction. The lowest floor (including basement),
electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing and air conditioning equipment and
other service facilities (including ductwork) must be elevated to one foot
above the base flood elevation that existed prior to the placement of fill.
   (B)   Nonresidential construction. The lowest floor (including basement),
electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing and air conditioning equipment and
other service facilities (including ductwork) must be elevated to one foot
above the base flood elevation that existed prior to the placement of fill, or
together with attendant utility and sanitary facilities, be designed so that
the structure or addition is water-tight to at least one foot above the base
flood level that existed prior to the placement of fill with walls
substantially impermeable to the passage of water and with structural
components having the capability of resisting hydrostatic and hydrodynamic
loads of effects of buoyancy.
(Ord. 02-14, passed 1-12-2014) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.46 STANDARDS FOR SUBDIVISION PROPOSALS.
   (A)   (1)   All subdivision proposals, including the placement of
manufactured home parks and subdivisions, shall be reasonably safe from
flooding.
      (2)   If a subdivision or other development proposal is in a flood-prone
area, the proposal shall minimize flood damage.
   (B)   All proposals for the development of subdivisions, including the
placement of manufactured home parks and subdivisions, shall meet floodplain
development permit requirements of §§
152.08,
152.27 and the provisions of §§
152.40 through
152.47.
   (C)   Base flood elevation data shall be generated for subdivision proposals
and other proposed development including the placement of manufactured home
parks and subdivisions which is greater than 50 lots or five acres, whichever
is lesser, if not otherwise provided pursuant to §§
152.07 or
152.26.
   (D)   All subdivision proposals, including the placement of manufactured
home parks and subdivisions, shall have adequate drainage provided to reduce
exposure to flood hazards.
   (E)   All subdivision proposals, including the placement of manufactured
home parks and subdivisions, shall have public utilities and facilities, such
as sewer, gas, electrical and water systems located and constructed to minimize
or eliminate flood damage.
(Ord. 02-14, passed 1-12-2014) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.47 STANDARDS FOR CRITICAL FACILITIES.
   A critical facility is a structure or related infrastructure, but not the
land on which it is situated, as specified in Rule 6 of the Rules and
Regulations for Regulatory Floodplains in Colorado, being 2 C.C.R. 408-1, that,
if flooded, may result in significant hazards to public health and safety or
interrupt essential services and operations for the community at any time
before, during and after a flood.
   (A)   Classification of critical facilities.
      (1)   It is the responsibility of the Board of Trustees to identify and
confirm that specific structures in their community meet the following
criteria.
      (2)   Critical facilities are classified under the following categories:
(a) essential services; (b) hazardous materials; (c) at-risk populations; and
(d) vital to restoring normal services.
         (a)   Essential services.
            1.   Essential services facilities include public safety, emergency
response, emergency medical, designated emergency shelters, communications,
public utility plant facilities and transportation lifelines.
            2.   These facilities consist of:
               a.   Public safety (police stations, fire and rescue stations,
emergency vehicle and equipment storage and emergency operation centers);
               b.   Emergency medical (hospitals, ambulance service centers,
urgent care centers having emergency treatment functions and non-ambulatory
surgical structures but excluding clinics, doctors offices and non-urgent care
medical structures that do not provide these functions);
               c.   Designated emergency shelters;
               d.   Communications (main hubs for telephone, broadcasting
equipment for cable systems, satellite dish systems, cellular systems,
television, radio and other emergency warning systems but excluding towers,
poles, lines, cables and conduits);
               e.   Public utility plant facilities for generation and
distribution (hubs, treatment plants, substations and pumping stations for
water, power and gas but not including towers, poles, power lines, buried
pipelines, transmission lines, distribution lines and service lines); and
               f.   Air transportation lifelines (airports (municipal and
larger), helicopter pads and structures serving emergency functions and
associated infrastructure (aviation control towers, air traffic control centers
and emergency equipment aircraft hangars)).
            3.   Specific exemptions to this category include wastewater
treatment plants (WWTP), non-potable water treatment and distribution systems
and hydroelectric power generating plants and related appurtenances.
            4.   a.   Public utility plant facilities may be exempted if it can
be demonstrated to the satisfaction of the Board of Trustees that the facility
is an element of a redundant system for which service will not be interrupted
during a flood.
               b.   At a minimum, it shall be demonstrated that redundant
facilities are available (either owned by the same utility or available through
an intergovernmental agreement or other contract) and connected, the
alternative facilities are either located outside of the 100-year floodplain or
are compliant with the provisions of this subchapter and an operations plan is
in effect that states how redundant systems will provide service to the
affected area in the event of a flood.
               c.   Evidence of ongoing redundancy shall be provided to the
Board of Trustees on an as-needed basis upon request.
         (b)   Hazardous materials.
            1.   Hazardous materials facilities include facilities that produce
or store highly volatile, flammable, explosive, toxic and/or water-reactive
materials.
            2.   These facilities may include:
               a.   Chemical and pharmaceutical plants (chemical plant,
pharmaceutical manufacturing);
               b.   Laboratories containing highly volatile, flammable,
explosive, toxic and/or water-reactive materials;
               c.   Refineries;
               d.   Hazardous waste storage and disposal sites; and
               e.   Above ground gasoline or propane storage or sales centers.
            3.   a.   Facilities shall be determined to be critical facilities
if they produce or store materials in excess of threshold limits. If the owner
of a facility is required by the Occupational Safety and Health Administration
(OSHA) to keep a material safety data sheet (MSDS) on file for any chemicals
stored or used in the work place, and the chemical(s) is stored in quantities
equal to or greater than the threshold planning quantity (TPQ) for that
chemical, then that facility shall be considered to be a critical facility. The
TPQ for these chemicals is: either 500 pounds or the TPQ listed (whichever is
lower) for the 356 chemicals listed under 40 C.F.R. pt. 302, also known as
extremely hazardous substances (EHS); or 10,000 pounds for any other chemical.
This threshold is consistent with the requirements for reportable chemicals
established by the State Department of Health and Environment. OSHA
requirements for MSDS can be found in 29 C.F.R. pt. 1910.
               b.   The Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) regulation
“Designation, Reportable Quantities, and Notification”, 40 C.F.R. pt. 302 and
OSHA regulation “Occupational Safety and Health Standards”, 29 C.F.R. pt. 1910
are incorporated herein by reference and include the regulations in existence
at the time of the promulgation this chapter, but exclude later amendments to
or editions of the regulations.
            4.   Specific exemptions to this category include:
               a.   Finished consumer products within retail centers and
households containing hazardous materials intended for household use, and
agricultural products intended for agricultural use;
               b.   Buildings and other structures containing hazardous
materials for which it can be demonstrated to the satisfaction of the local
authority having jurisdiction by hazard assessment and certification by a
qualified professional (as determined by the local jurisdiction having land use
authority) that a release of the subject hazardous material does not pose a
major threat to the public; and
               c.   Pharmaceutical sales, use, storage and distribution centers
that do not manufacture pharmaceutical products.
            5.   These exemptions shall not apply to buildings or other
structures that also function as critical facilities under another category
outlined in this subchapter.
         (c)   At-risk populations.
            1.   At-risk population facilities include medical care, congregate
care and schools.
            2.   These facilities consist of:
               a.   Elder care (nursing homes);
               b.   Congregate care serving 12 or more individuals (daycare and
assisted living); and
               c.   Public and private schools (pre-schools, K-12 schools),
before-school and after-school care serving 12 or more children).
         (d)   Vital to restoring normal services.
            1.   Facilities vital to restoring normal services including
government operations.
            2.   These facilities consist of:
               a.   Essential government operations (public records, courts,
jails, building permitting and inspection services, community administration
and management, maintenance and equipment centers); and
               b.   Essential structures for public colleges and universities
(dormitories, offices and classrooms only).
            3.   a.   These facilities may be exempted if it is demonstrated to
the Board of Trustees that the facility is an element of a redundant system for
which service will not be interrupted during a flood.
               b.   At a minimum, it shall be demonstrated that redundant
facilities are available (either owned by the same entity or available through
an intergovernmental agreement or other contract), the alternative facilities
are either located outside of the 100-year floodplain or are compliant with
this chapter and an operations plan is in effect that states how redundant
facilities will provide service to the affected area in the event of a flood.
               c.   Evidence of ongoing redundancy shall be provided to the
Board of Trustees on an as-needed basis upon request.
   (B)   Protection for critical facilities.
      (1)   All new and substantially improved critical facilities and new
additions to critical facilities located within the special flood. Hazard area
shall be regulated to a higher standard than structures not determined to be
critical facilities.
      (2)   For the purposes of this chapter, protection shall include one of
the following:
         (a)   Location outside the special flood hazard area; or
         (b)   Elevation of the lowest floor or floodproofing of the structure,
together with attendant utility and sanitary facilities, to at least two feet
above the base flood elevation.
   (C)   Ingress and egress for new critical facilities. New critical
facilities shall, when practicable as determined by the Board of Trustees, have
continuous non-inundated access (ingress and egress for evacuation and
emergency services) during a 100-year flood event.
(Ord. 02-14, passed 1-12-2014)
§ 152.99 PENALTY.
   No structure or land shall hereafter be constructed, located, extended,
converted or altered without full compliance with the terms of this chapter and
other applicable regulations. Violation of the provisions of this chapter, by
failure to comply with any of its requirements (including violations of
conditions and safeguards established in connection with conditions), shall
constitute a misdemeanor. Any person who violates this chapter or fails to
comply with any of its requirements shall, upon conviction thereof, be punished
as set forth in §
10.99 of this code. Nothing herein contained shall prevent the town from taking
such other lawful action as is necessary to prevent or remedy any violation.
(Ord. 02-14, passed 1-12-2014; Ord. 02-2019, passed 3-27-2019)
CHAPTER 153: LAND DEVELOPMENT CODE
Section
General Provisions
   
153.001   Adoption by reference; purposes
   
153.002   Amendment
   
153.003   Title
   
153.004   Short title
   
153.005   Authority
   
153.006   Jurisdiction
   
153.007   Intent
   
153.008   Effective date
   
153.009   Relationship to existing ordinances
   
153.010   Relationship to comprehensive plan
   
153.011   Application - no use or sale except in conformity with chapter
   
153.012   Fees
   
153.013   Computation of time
   
153.014   Miscellaneous
   
153.015   Definitions
   
153.016   Zoning Administrator - duties
   
153.017   Building permits
   
153.018   Certificates of occupancy
   
153.019   Enforcement and review
Zoning
   
153.030   General provisions
   
153.031   Zone districts
   
153.032   Zone district descriptions
   
153.033   Rural Residential District (RR)
   
153.034   Estate Residential District (ER)
   
153.035   Single-Family Residential District (R-1)
   
153.036   Residential District (R-2)
   
153.037   Mobile Home Park District (MHPD)
   
153.038   Business District (BD)
   
153.039   Commercial District (CD)
   
153.040   Industrial District (ID)
   
153.041   Planned Development District (PD)
   
153.042   Conservation District (CON)
   
153.043   District schedule of requirements
Supplementary Development Standards and Regulations
   
153.055   Mobile home parks
   
153.056   Commercial and industrial use performance standards
   
153.057   Home occupations
   
153.058   Renting of rooms
   
153.059   Fences, hedges, trees and walls
   
153.060   Off-street parking and loading
   
153.061   Streets, sidewalks and bicycle lanes
   
153.062   Fire hydrants
   
153.063   Sites for screening of dumpsters
   
153.064   Drainage
   
153.065   Building Code
   
153.066   Sign Code
   
153.067   Utilities
   
153.068   Trees
   
153.069   Landscaping
   
153.070   Major activity notice
Site Plans
   
153.085   Site plans
Subdivisions
   
153.100   Pre-application conference
   
153.101   Filing deadlines and applications
   
153.102   Sketch plan
   
153.103   Preliminary plan
   
153.104   Final plat
   
153.105   Utility requirements
   
153.106   Development agreements
   
153.107   Concurrent filing for preliminary and final plans
   
153.108   Minor subdivision
   
153.109   Public notice requirement
   
153.110   Limitations on approval
   
153.111   Submission requirements
   
153.112   Dedications required
   
153.113   Requirements for approval by Planning Commission
   
153.114   Boundary line adjustments
Vested Rights
   
153.125   When development rights are vested
   
153.126   Waiver or forfeiture of vested rights
   
153.127   Duration
   
153.128   Subsequent regulation prohibited
   
153.129   Extension and amendments
   
153.130   Other provisions
Annexations
   
153.145   Purpose
   
153.146   Responsibilities
   
153.147   Eligibility for annexation
   
153.148   Who may petition for annexation
   
153.149   Required annexation impact reports
   
153.150   Required dedications
   
153.151   Pre-annexation agreement
   
153.152   Annexation agreement
   
153.153   Proposed zoning
   
153.154   Standards for annexation
   
153.155   Planning Commission action
   
153.156   Town Board action
   
153.157   General development plan
   
153.158   Zoning of newly annexed land
   
153.159   Subdivision of newly annexed land
Appendices
   
153.170   Conditional use permit submission requirements
   
153.171   Special use permit submission requirements
   
153.172   Temporary use permit submission requirements
   
153.173   Property posting procedure
   
153.174   Submission requirements for planned development district amendments
   
153.175   Final planned development plan submission requirements
   
153.176   Rezoning (zoning amendment) submission requirements
   
153.177   Site development plan (SDP) submission requirements
   
153.178   Submission requirements for subdivisions
   
153.179   Site plan submission requirements
   
153.180   Sign permit submission requirements
   
153.181   Supplemental standards for utilities
   
153.182   Recreational vehicle park development guidelines
 
   
153.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 153.001 ADOPTION BY REFERENCE; PURPOSES.
   The Wiggins Land Development Code and Zoning Map are hereby adopted for the
purpose of promoting the health, safety and the general welfare of the
community and in furtherance of the following related and more specific
objectives:
   (A)   To establish zoning districts comprising all the incorporated areas
within the town;
   (B)   To ensure the orderly, efficient and integrated development of the
town in a way that promotes the health, safety and general welfare of the
residents and that is compatible and protective of the natural environment;
   (C)   To implement the town’s adopted comprehensive plan;
   (D)   To provide for the adequate and concurrent provision of public
infrastructure and services with the development and use of land in the town,
and in a manner consistent with the public improvements plans of the town;
   (E)   To ensure well-planned subdivisions by establishing adequate standards
for design, improvements and review;
   (F)   To avoid traffic congestion and the overcrowding of land while
providing adequate light and fresh air to residents;
   (G)   To prevent loss of life and property from fire, flooding, geologic
hazards and other natural or human-made dangers;
   (H)   To conserve significant environmental features and integrate a high
quality natural environment into the developed portions of the community;
   (I)   To develop a well-balanced land use pattern that will facilitate the
development of an integrated community offering a diversity of housing and
employment opportunities; and
   (J)   To establish a town center area as the central business district,
economic focal point and identity area for the town.
(Ord. 2-98, passed 4-22-1998)
§ 153.002 AMENDMENT.
   Ordinance 3-76, the zoning ordinance of the town, and the official zoning
map of the town, dated October 6, 1976, are hereby amended and replaced by the
Wiggins Land Development Code and the zoning map. To the extent that the
provisions of the Wiggins Land Development Code and the zoning map are the same
in substance as the previously adopted provisions of the zoning ordinance and
official zoning map, they shall be considered as continuations thereof. It is
not the intention of this chapter to repeal, but rather to re-enact and
continue in force the town’s powers and authority in land use regulation. In
particular, situations not lawful and conforming under previous ordinances do
not become lawful merely by repeal of those ordinances. The adoption of this
chapter shall not adversely affect the town’s right to seek remedies for any
violation of previous ordinances that occurred while those ordinances were in
effect. In cases where the provisions of this chapter substantially differ from
existing ordinances, the provisions of this chapter supersede and replace the
existing ordinances at the effective date of this chapter.
(Ord. 2-98, passed 4-22-1998)
§ 153.003 TITLE.
   (A)   This chapter establishes the regulations and standards governing the
use and development of land within the town.
   (B)   Included are provisions for the annexation, subdivision and zoning of
land, as well as the administrative procedures governing the submission of
application, administrative and public reviews and appeals. Also included are
town standards for site design, landscaping, parking and public infrastructure.
(Ord. 2-98, passed 4-22-1998)
§ 153.004 SHORT TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the “Wiggins Land
Development Code”. Within this chapter, the Wiggins Land Development Code shall
simply be referred to as “this chapter”.
(Ord. 2-98, passed 4-22-1998)
§ 153.005 AUTHORITY.
   (A)   This chapter is adopted pursuant to the authority contained in the
Colorado Revised Statutes (C.R.S.). Authority is granted to municipalities to
establish a planning commission and regulate subdivisions (C.R.S. §§ 31-23-202
and 31-23-214), to enforce building and fire regulations (C.R.S. § 31-15-601),
to regulate land use through zoning (C.R.S. § 31-23-301), to prohibit or
regulate nuisances and enforce its major street plan within three miles of its
boundaries (C.R.S. §§ 31-15-401 through 31-15-601, 31-23-212 and 31-23-213), as
well as to adopt a comprehensive plan and generally plan for and regulate the
use of land.
   (B)   Whenever a section of the Colorado Revised Statues that is referred to
in this chapter is later amended or superseded, this chapter is deemed amended
to refer to the amended section or section that most nearly corresponds to the
superseded section.
(Ord. 2-98, passed 4-22-1998)
§ 153.006 JURISDICTION.
   (A)   This chapter shall apply to all land and buildings within the
incorporated limits of the town. The town’s planning jurisdiction includes all
land within the town, and where applicable the land within three miles of the
town’s boundaries.
   (B)   For purposes of zoning and subdivision, this chapter only applies to
lands within the town’s corporate boundaries. A copy of a map showing the
boundaries of the town and the area within the three-mile planning jurisdiction
shall be available for public inspection in the town offices.
(Ord. 2-98, passed 4-22-1998)
§ 153.007 INTENT.
   (A)   It is the intent of this chapter to ensure the orderly, efficient and
integrated development of the town in a way that both promotes the health,
safety and general welfare of its residents and that is compatible and
protective of the natural environment.
   (B)   Specifically, the town seeks to:
      (1)   Implement its adopted comprehensive plan;
      (2)   Provide for the adequate and concurrent provision of public
infrastructure and services with the development and use of land in the town,
and in a manner consistent with the public improvements plans of the town;
      (3)   Ensure well-planned subdivisions by establishing adequate standards
for design, improvements and review;
      (4)   Avoid traffic congestion and the overcrowding of land while
providing adequate light and fresh air to residents;
      (5)   Prevent loss of life and property from fire, flooding, geologic
hazards and other natural or human-made dangers;
      (6)   Conserve significant environmental features and integrate a high-
quality natural environment into the developed portions of the community;
      (7)   Develop a well-balanced land use pattern that will facilitate the
development of an integrated community offering a diversity of housing and
employment opportunities; and
      (8)   Establish a town center area as the central business district,
economic focal point and identity area for the town.
(Ord. 2-98, passed 4-22-1998)
§ 153.008 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   (A)   The provisions of this chapter and the zoning map shall become
effective on May 23, 1998.
   (B)   The provisions of this chapter became effective and were originally
adopted on 199__. Development plans approved under previous regulations that
received vested property rights through a site-specific development plan (SSDP)
shall be valid for the duration of that vested property right provided that all
terms and conditions of the SSDP are complied with. Existing uses that may
become nonconforming by adoption of this chapter are grandfathered and under
the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 2-98, passed 4-22-1998)
§ 153.009 RELATIONSHIP TO EXISTING ORDINANCES.
   To the extent that the provisions of this chapter are the same in substance
as the previously adopted provisions in the town’s code, they shall be
considered as continuations thereof. It is not the intention of this chapter to
repeal, but rather to re-enact and continue in force the town’s powers and
authority in land use regulation. In particular, situations not lawful and
conforming under previous ordinances do not become lawful merely by repeal of
those ordinances. The adoption of this chapter shall not adversely affect the
town’s right to seek remedies for any violation of previous ordinances that
occurred while those ordinances were in effect. In cases where the provisions
of this chapter substantially differ from existing ordinances, the provisions
of this chapter supersede and replace the existing ordinances at the effective
date of this chapter.
(Ord. 2-98, passed 4-22-1998)
§ 153.010 RELATIONSHIP TO COMPREHENSIVE PLAN.
   It is the intention of the town that this chapter implement the planning
policies recommended by the Town Planning Commission and adopted by the Town
Board and its extraterritorial planning area, as reflected in the comprehensive
plan and other planning documents. While this relationship is reaffirmed, it is
the intent of the town that neither this chapter nor any amendment to it may be
challenged on the basis of any alleged nonconformity with any planning
document.
   (A)   Requirement for comprehensive plan amendment. Where a development
proposal would be in substantial conflict with the comprehensive plan, an
amendment to the comprehensive plan will be required prior to any zoning or
subdivision approvals. A substantial conflict will exist when a development
proposal would result in changes from the designations of the land use plan
maps, circulation and transportation plan map or open space and parks plan map
in the comprehensive plan.
   (B)   Criteria for evaluating amendment proposals. Amendments to the
comprehensive plan resulting from development proposals under this chapter
shall be evaluated according to the criteria and procedure outlined in the
comprehensive plan.
(Ord. 2-98, passed 4-22-1998)
§ 153.011 APPLICATION - NO USE OR SALE EXCEPT IN CONFORMITY WITH CHAPTER.
   (A)   In interpretation and application, the provisions of this chapter
shall be held to be the minimum requirement for the promotion for the public
health, safety, morals and welfare.
   (B)   (1)   Where property is affected by the requirements of this chapter
and by other governmental regulations, those that are more restrictive or which
impose the higher standards or requirements shall prevail.
      (2)   No land use or development shall occur or be maintained in the town
in violation of any state or federal regulations.
   (C)   Except for situations covered under the “nonconforming situations”
section of this chapter, no person may use, occupy, modify or sell any land or
buildings or authorize or permit the use, occupancy, modification or sale of
land or buildings under their control except in accordance with all the
applicable provisions of this chapter.
   (D)   (1)   For the purposes of this section, the USE or OCCUPANCY of a
building or land relates to anything and everything that is done to, on or in
that building or land.
      (2)   In cases of mixed-occupancy or mixed-use, the regulations for each
land use shall apply to the portion of the structure or land so used unless
governed by an approved development plan.
(Ord. 2-98, passed 4-22-1998)
§ 153.012 FEES.
   (A)   Reasonable fees sufficient to cover the costs of administration, legal
fees, inspections, publication of notice and similar matters will be charged to
applicants for permits, plat approvals, zoning amendments, variances and other
administrative relief.
   (B)   The fee schedule will be adopted periodically by the Town Board and is
available from the town office.
(Ord. 2-98, passed 4-22-1998)
§ 153.013 COMPUTATION OF TIME.
   (A)   Unless specifically provided, all time references in this chapter will
be calendar days and be computed by excluding the first day and including the
last.
   (B)   Where the last day falls on a Saturday, Sunday or holiday, the next
general working day will be used.
   (C)   When the period of time prescribed is less than seven days, the
intermediate Saturdays, Sundays and holidays shall be excluded.
(Ord. 2-98, passed 4-22-1998)
§ 153.014 MISCELLANEOUS.
   (A)   As used in this chapter, words used in the singular include the plural
and words used in the plural include the singular.
   (B)   The words “must”, “shall” and “will” are mandatory; “may”, “can” and
“might” are permissive.
(Ord. 2-98, passed 4-22-1998)
§ 153.015 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning. Questions
of definition or working usage shall be interpreted by the Town Manager based
on the context of their usage and the intention of the section of this chapter
in which they occur.
   ABUTTING LAND. A parcel of land which has a common property line with
another parcel of land.
   ACCESSORY BUILDING. A detached subordinate building, the use of which is
incidental to that of the main building or to the main use of the land and
which is located on the same lot with the main building or use.
   ACCESSORY USE. A use customarily associated with, but subordinate to the
principal use on the same lot.
   ADULT AMUSEMENT, ENTERTAINMENT OR BUSINESS ESTABLISHMENT. An establishment
from which minors are absolutely excluded. Such establishments shall include
adult bookstores, adult X-rated motion picture theaters, adult cabarets,
topless bars or restaurants, massage parlors and any other uses of the same
general character from which minors are absolutely excluded as a prevailing
practice or legal requirement.
   ALLEY.
      (1)   A minor way which is used primarily for vehicular service access to
the rear or side of properties otherwise abutting on the street. Its use is for
secondary access to the lot and/or service purposes.
      (2)   An ALLEY shall not be considered to be a street.
   APARTMENT HOUSE. A building containing dwelling units used and/or arranged
for rental occupancy, or cooperatively owned by its occupants, with a yard and
compound, and which has one or more utilities in common. See also: DWELLING,
MULTI-FAMILY.
   APPEAL. A request for review by the Board of Adjustment for a variance to
this chapter.
   APPLICANT. Any individual, partnership, corporation, association, company or
public body, including the federal government, or any political subdivision,
agency, corporation or instrumentality of the state applying for a development
permit pursuant to this chapter.
   ARCHITECTURAL PROJECTION. Any projection that is not intended for occupancy
and that extends beyond the face of an exterior wall of a building, including,
within limitation, cornices, eave belt courses, sills, box or bay windows,
fireplaces, roof overhangs, mansards, unenclosed exterior balconies, marquees,
canopies, pilasters and fascias, but not including signs.
   AUTOMOBILE, ABANDONED.
      (1)   Unsheltered old, unused, stripped, junked and other automobiles and
trucks not in good and safe operating condition.
      (2)   Notwithstanding the foregoing definition, a motor vehicle stored
within a permitted building or structure shall not be considered to be an
ABANDONED AUTOMOBILE.
   AUTOMOTIVE, MOBILE HOME, TRAILER AND FARM IMPLEMENT SALES. The sale or
rental of new and used motor vehicles, mobile homes, trailer or farm
implements, but not including repair work except incidental warranty repair of
the same to be displayed and sold on the premises.
   AUTOMOTIVE WRECKING BUSINESS. The dismantling or wrecking of used motor
vehicles, motor homes, trailers or the storage, sale or dumping of dismantled,
partially dismantled, obsolete or wrecked vehicles or their parts.
   AWNING. A fixed or movable shelter supported entirely from the exterior wall
or a building that can be retracted, folded or collapsed against the face of
the supporting building.
   BASEMENT. Any level of a building where more than one-half of the vertical
distance between the floor and the ceiling is below the grade of the site.
   BASEMENT HOUSE. A dwelling or structure constructed partly or wholly below
the grade level of any property.
   BED AND BREAKFAST.
      (1)   A residential building in which rooms are rented on a daily basis
to short-term guests.
      (2)   The building typically is similar in character to the surrounding
neighborhood and meets all the requirements of the zoning district in which the
facility is to be located.
   BLOCK. A group of lots existing within well-defined and fixed boundaries
within a subdivision and usually being an area surrounded by street or other
features such as parks, rights-of-way or municipal boundary lines.
   BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT. A special review board operating under the authority of
this chapter for purposes of hearing and deciding appeals or variances to this
chapter.
   BOARDING AND ROOMING HOUSE.
      (1)   A building or portion thereof which is used to provide lodging and
may include meals for five or more boarders for compensation; not including
members of the occupant’s immediate family who might be occupying such
building.
      (2)   The word COMPENSATION can mean money, services or other things of
value.
   BUFFER ZONE. A strip of land established to separate and protect one type of
land use from another; to screen from objectionable noise, odor, smoke or
visual impact; or to provide for future public improvements or additional open
space.
   BUILDING. A structure designed, built or occupied as a shelter or roofed
enclosure for persons, animals or property, and where separated by a fire wall,
each such separated portion of such structure shall be deemed a separate
building.
   BUILDING HEIGHT. The vertical distance measured from the average elevation
of the proposed finished grade at the front of the building to the highest
point of the roof for flat roofs, to the deck line of mansard roofs and to the
mean height between eaves and ridge for gable, hip and gambrel roofs.
   CHILD CARE CENTER. A child care center offers each client less than 24-hour
care but may operate for 24 hours in a day including a large child care center,
small child care center, school-age child care center, infant nursery and
toddler nursery, as defined by the State Department of Social Services.
   CAMPGROUND. Any plot of improved property utilized for camping and parking
of camping units as herein defined for a period not to exceed 30 days.
   CAMPING UNIT or RECREATIONAL VEHICLE (RV). A wheeled vehicle intended to
provide temporary living accommodations. It is either self-propelled, hauled or
towed by a non-commercial vehicle. Included are units commonly referred to as
travel-trailers, camper trailers, trailer-coaches, motor homes and pickup
campers. It is not a mobile home.
   CEMETERY. Land used or intended to be used for the burial of animal or human
dead and dedicated for cemetery purposes, including crematories, mausoleums and
mortuaries if operated in connection with and within the boundaries of such
cemetery.
   CHILD CARE CENTER. A facility that is maintained for the whole or part of a
day for the care of five or more children who are 18 years of age or younger
and who are not related to the owner, operator, or manager thereof, whether the
facility is operated with or without compensation for such care and with or
without stated educational purposes. The term includes, but is not limited,
facilities commonly known as child care centers, school-age child care centers,
before- and after-school programs, kindergartens, preschools, day camps, and
summer camps and includes those facilities with a public, private, or parochial
college or a private or parochial school; except that the term does not apply
to any kindergarten maintained in connection with a public, private, or
parochial elementary school system of at least six grades.
   CHILD CARE HOME. A facility for child care operated with or without
compensation or educational purposes in a place of residence of a family or
person for the purpose of providing less than 24-hour care for children under
the age of 18 years who are not related to the head of such home. The number of
children in a child care home shall not exceed program requirements established
by the Colorado Department of Early Childhood Social Services.
   CLUB. Any membership organization including a lodge, catering exclusively to
members and their guests and whose facilities are limited to meeting, eating
and recreational uses, and, further, whose activities are not connected
principally for monetary gain.
   COMMUNICATION FACILITY. Consisting primarily of communication towers and/or
antennas (including antennas mounted on existing structures), an appurtenant
facilities housing electrical equipment for cellular telephone, television,
radio and other broadcasting facilities. Does not include places of business
where people work on a regular basis (e.g., radio or TV studios).
   CORNER LOT. A lot situated at the junction of a front street and a side
street. A 25 feet setback is required from both streets.
   CORRECTIONAL FACILITY. Any facility under the supervision of the State
Department of Corrections in which persons are or may lawfully be held in
custody as a result of conviction of a crime, specifically including any
private correctional facility (or private contract prison facility) which
contracts with the State Department of Corrections, pursuant to C.R.S. Title
17, Article 1, Part 2, or with the county, pursuant to C.R.S. § 16-11-308.5, as
amended, or which holds inmates from states other than this state with the
express approval of Executive Director of the State Department of Corrections,
pursuant to C.R.S. § 17-1-104.5, but no CORRECTIONAL FACILITY shall be
constructed within three miles of any public or private school, kindergarten,
pre-school or child care facility.
   COURT. An unoccupied space on a lot other than a yard designated to be
partially surrounded by group dwellings.
   CURB CUTS. A cut in the curb line for passage of vehicles, not to exceed 12
feet in width for single drive and 20 feet for double drive.
   DENSITY. A unit of measurement; the number of dwelling units per acre of
land.
   GROSS DENSITY. The number of dwelling units per acre of total land to be
developed.
   NET DENSITY. The number of dwelling units per acre of land when the acreage
involved includes only the land devoted to residential uses.
   DOMESTIC LIVESTOCK. Limited to cattle, horses, swine, sheep and mules.
   DRIVEWAY. Private access for a vehicle to a single building site or lot not
to exceed 12 feet in width for a single drive and 20 feet in width for a double
drive.
   DWELLING, MULTI-FAMILY. A building, or portion thereof, designed for or
occupied by three or more families living independently of each other, which
may include public housing, condominiums, townhouse units or apartments.
   DWELLING, SINGLE-FAMILY. A building consisting of a single dwelling unit
only, for the occupancy of one family; separated from other dwelling units by
open space, built or assembled on a foundation on-site.
   DWELLING, TWO-FAMILY. Also called DUPLEX, a detached building designed
exclusively for the occupancy of two families living independently of each
other; such dwellings may be either attached side by side or one above the
other, and each unit having a separate or combined entrance or entrances.
   DWELLING UNIT. One room or a combination of two or more rooms designed for
living and sleeping purposes for one person or family, and its household
employees, and having a kitchen or kitchenette and a bathroom with a toilet,
lavatory and bathtub or shower, all connected to potable water and a sanitary
sewer system. Does not include motel, trailer (mobile home) or hotel lodging.
   FAMILY. One or more persons occupying a dwelling unit and related by
marriage, blood or adoption, or one or more persons occupying a dwelling unit
and living together as a single housekeeping unit, as distinguished from a
group occupying a boarding house, lodging house, motel or hotel.
   FRONT YARD. The portion of a yard between the street right-of-way and the
building, and between two side lot lines, the depth of which shall be the least
distance between the building and the front lot line.
   FRONTAGE STREET. Street on which the lots of a block, or subdivision
thereof, generally front.
   GABLE. The portion of roof which forms a triangle at the building end and
extends from the ridge to the eaves.
   GREENHOUSE, RECREATIONAL. A non-business greenhouse of not more than 150
square feet.
   HOME OCCUPATION.
      (1)   Any use conducted entirely within a dwelling unit or accessory
building and carried on by the occupants thereof, which use is clearly
incidental and secondary to the use of the dwelling for residence purposes and
does not change the character thereof or adversely affect the uses permitted in
the residential district of which it is a part, which creates no additional
traffic, requires no additional parking space, where no persons are employed
other than residents in connection with the HOME OCCUPATION.
      (2)   Provided further that no mechanical equipment is installed or used
except such that is used for domestic purposes; and that there is no outdoor
storage of materials, equipment and/or supplies other than that necessary for
domestic purposes.
      (3)   For the purposes of this code, child care homes and child care
centers are not considered HOME OCCUPATIONS. See also HOME OCCUPATIONS
SUPPLEMENT for criteria.
   HOTEL. A building containing sleeping rooms designed to be rented for short-
term occupancy, and which may or may not have eating or drinking facilities as
an accessory use.
   JUNKYARD. A building, structure or parcel of land, or portion thereof, used
for the collecting, storage or sale of rags, scrap metal or discarded material;
or for the collecting, dismantling, storage, salvaging or demolition of
vehicles, machinery or other materials and including the sale of whole or parts
thereof.
   KENNEL. Any building, structure or open space devoted wholly or partly to
the raising, boarding or harboring of three or more animals that are over four
months old.
   LOADING AREA. A parking space other than a public street or alley for the
parking of commercial vehicles for the purpose of loading or unloading
materials or merchandise.
   LOT. Land occupied or to be occupied by a building and its accessory
building together with such open spaces as are required under this chapter and
having its principal frontage on a street or officially approved place.
   LOT AREA. Total square footage or acreage contained within lot lines.
   LOT DEPTH.
      (1)   The mean distance from the street right-of-way line at the front of
the lot to its opposite rear line measured in the general direction of the side
lines of the lot. Where a right-of-way is not established or dedicated, it
shall be assumed to be 60 feet.
      (2)   Where a major thoroughfare or collector street is designated on the
major thoroughfare plan, then the lot depth shall be measured from the proposed
right-of-way line.
   LOT LENGTH. The average distance from the street to the rear of the lot,
measured perpendicularly from the street line upon which the lot faces.
   LOT LINE. A property line bounding a lot, excluding any dedicated street or
alley.
   LOT OF RECORD. A lot which is part of a subdivision, a plat of which has
been legally recorded or a lot described by metes and bounds, the description
of which has been so recorded.
   LOT WIDTH. The width measured along the minimum building setback line.
   MAJOR FACILITY OF A PUBLIC UTILITY. Central office buildings of telephone
utilities, transmission lines, power plants, electrical utilities substations
and pipelines and storage area of utilities providing natural gas or other
petroleum derivatives.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. A single-family dwelling unit which is partially or
entirely manufactured in a factory and is not less than 24 feet in width and 36
feet in length and is no more than seven years old, based on its year of
manufacture, when placed on any lot or space within the town. It is installed
on an engineered permanent foundation and has brick, wood or cosmetically
equivalent exterior siding, and a pitched roof. It is certified to the National
Manufactured Housing Construction and Safety Standards Act of 1974, 42 U.S.C.
§§ 5401 et seq., as amended (which is commonly known as HUD code) and displays
the HUD certification label.
   MOBILE HOME. A detached, transportable, one-family dwelling unit intended
for year-round occupancy that is at least 12 feet in width, 70 feet in length
and 840 square feet or more, and is no more than seven years old, based on its
year of manufacture, when placed on any lot or space within the town. At a
minimum, it must contain sleeping accommodations, flush toilet, a tub or shower
bath, kitchen facilities with plumbing and electrical connections intended for
attachment to outside systems. All MOBILE HOMES must be certified to the
National Manufactured Housing and Construction and Safety Standards Act of
1974, 42 U.S.C. §§ 5401 et seq., or its equivalent, as amended (which is
commonly known as the HUD code) and shall display the HUD certification label.
These homes are to be readily movable as a unit or units on it (their) own
running gear and designed to be used as a dwelling unit(s) without a permanent
foundation and which unit or units are not licensed as a recreational vehicle
or park model. The phrase “without a permanent foundation” indicates that the
support system is constructed with the intent that the MOBILE HOME placed
thereon may be moved from time to time at the convenience of the owner.
   MOBILE HOME PARK. Any plot of ground zoned MHPD upon which two or more
mobile homes, occupied or intended to be occupied for dwelling, are located for
any period of time, regardless of whether or not a charge is made for such
accommodations, and whether or not the mobile homes and/or the land are owned
by the occupants. A license is required.
   MODULAR HOME. A single-family dwelling unit which is partially or entirely
manufactured in a factory for installation, or assembly and installation, on
the building site and is no more than seven years old, based on its year of
manufacture, when placed on any lot or space within the town. A MODULAR HOME
shall be installed on an engineered permanent foundation and shall be
constructed in compliance with all applicable town-adopted building codes,
including, but not limited to, the International Building Code and
International Residential Code.
   MOTEL. A building or groups of buildings containing individual rooms for
sleeping or living, designed and used for temporary rental occupancy and with
automobile parking space adjacent to or within the proximity of each rental
unit.
   NOISE LEVEL REDUCTION (NLR). Construction techniques utilized for the
purposes of reducing interior noise levels of structures to acceptable levels
as may be determined by the Board of Trustees.
   NONCONFORMING STRUCTURE. A building, structure or portion thereof which
lawfully existed at the time of the adoption of this chapter but which does not
conform to the height, yard or area regulations of the zone in which it is
located, or which is so designed, erected or altered that it could not
reasonably be occupied by a use permitted in the zone in which it is located.
   NONCONFORMING LOT. A “lot” which was lawfully created but which does not
conform to the minimum lot size specifications of the zone in which it is
located.
   NONCONFORMING USE. A use which lawfully occupied a building or lot at the
time of the adoption of this chapter or any amendment thereto, and which does
not conform with the use regulations of the zone in which the building and/or
lot is located.
   PARKING AREA. An open space or an enclosed structure or building used
exclusively for the temporary storage of registered automobiles.
   PARKING SPACE. The part of a parking area, exclusive of drives, turning
areas or loading spaces, devoted to parking for one automobile or vehicle.
   PARKING, OFF-STREET. Any parking area located wholly within the limits of
one or more lots.
   PERMANENT FOUNDATION (MANUFACTURED HOUSING). Wall construction shall be, at
a minimum, six inches block or concrete on a concrete footer with proper pylon
and pads for blocking. There must be a minimum 42-inch crawl space in all
zoning districts except MHPD.
   PLANNING COMMISSION. The Planning Commission appointed by the Town Board of
Trustees.
   PORCH. A roofed or unroofed open structure projecting from the front, side
or rear wall of a building. For the purpose of this chapter, a PORCH is
considered a part of the principal building and is not permitted to extend into
any yard requirements.
   PROFESSIONAL ACTIVITIES. The use of offices and related spaces for such
professional services as are provided by medical practitioners, lawyers,
architects and engineers and similar professions.
   PUBLIC BUILDING OR USE. Any building open to the general use, participation
or enjoyment of the public and owned by the town, county, state or federal
government or by a public utility corporation.
   PUBLIC UTILITY. For the purpose of this chapter only: an electrical
substation, a gas regulator station, a telephone exchange, cable TV satellite
facility, a water or sewer pumping station or a water reservoir.
   REAR YARD. The portion of a lot between the rear of a building and a rear
lot line or from the alley right-of-way, and between two side lot lines, the
depth of which shall be the least distance between the building and the rear
lot line.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE or RV. A vehicle designed primarily for temporary
living quarters for recreational, camping or travel use, which either has its
own motive power or is mounted or drawn by another vehicle, and which is
designed and constructed to permit sleeping or housekeeping or both, for one or
more persons.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE PARK or RV PARK. Any area or tract of land where one or
more spaces or lots are rented, let, or held out for rent or lease, to owners
or users of recreational vehicles for the purpose of lodging, dwelling, or
sleeping. RECREATIONAL PARK does not include a mobile home park.
   RECYCLING CENTER. A building, structure or parcel of land, or portion
thereof, used for the collection, temporary storage and transfer of paper,
cardboard, plastic, glass, aluminum and similar materials for the purpose of
recycling.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY. A strip of land taken or dedicated for use as a public way. In
addition to the roadway, it normally incorporates the curbs, lawn strips,
sidewalks, lighting and drainage facilities, and may include special features
(required by the topography or treatment) such as grade separation, landscaped
areas, viaducts and bridges.
   ROADSIDE STAND. A temporary structure designed or used for the display or
sale of agricultural and related products.
   ROOMING OR BOARDING HOUSE. A building, or part thereof, other than a hotel,
motel or restaurant, where meals and/or lodging are provided for compensation,
for three or more unrelated persons where no cooking or dining facilities are
provided in individual rooms.
   SEAT. An individual chair designed to seat one person, or part of a bench
designed to seat one person, but measuring at least 18 inches in width.
   SERVICE STATION, AUTOMOBILE. A facility to supply motor fuel and oil to
motor vehicles, and including a grease rack, minor tire and battery servicing
and sales of motor vehicle accessories.
   SETBACK. The minimum horizontal distance between the property line and the
front line of the building or any projection thereof, excluding steps. Where
angled buildings or lots, curved streets and the like, the SETBACK shall be
taken as an average distance.
   SETBACK LINE. A line in the back of and parallel to the street right-of-way
line and at such horizontal distance from the street right-of-way line as
required by the minimum front yard depth in the district in which it is to be
located.
   SIDE YARD. The portion of a lot that extends from the front setback line to
the rear setback line between the side setback line and the side lot line, or
that portion of a lot that is between a lot line and a setback line, but is not
a front or rear yard.
   SIGNS. Any form of publicity, directing attention to an individual activity,
business, service, commodity or product and conveyed by means of words,
figures, numerals, lettering, emblems, devices, designs, trademarks or trade
names or other pictorial matter, designed to convey such information and
displayed by means of panels, posters, paints or other devices erected on an
open framework or attached or otherwise applied to posts, stakes, poles, trees,
buildings or other structures or supports. Flags and banners of any country,
state, city or non-profit organization shall not be included.
   STORY. The portion of a building included between the surface of a floor and
the surface of the floor next above it, or, if there is no floor above it, then
the space between such floor and the ceiling next above it.
   STREET. A public thoroughfare 60 feet or more in width and not less than 40
feet between curbs.
   STRUCTURAL ALTERATION. Any addition to, or subtraction of parts of a
building, including walls, columns, beams, girders, foundations, doors and
windows.
   STRUCTURE. Anything constructed or made, the use of which requires permanent
location on the ground or attached to something having more or less permanent
location on the ground, except utility poles, flag poles or walls and fences
less than four feet high. The word STRUCTURE shall include the word BUILDING.
   SUBDIVISION. Division of a lot, tract or parcel of land into two or more
lots, plats, sites or other divisions of land for the purpose, whether
immediate or future, of sale or building development. It includes resubdivision
and, when appropriate to the context, relates to the process of resubdividing
or to the land or territory resubdivided.
   TOWN. For purposes of this chapter, shall mean the Town of Wiggins, State of
Colorado.
   TOWN MANAGER. The Town Manager or other duly authorized staff personnel of
the town empowered to enforce the requirements of this chapter.
   TRAILER COURT. Any plot of ground upon which two or more occupied trailer
homes are located. Also known as a MOBILE HOME PARK.
   TRAILER HOME. A mobile home as defined by this chapter.
   TRUCKING TERMINAL. Any lot, structure or premises used for the parking or
storage of capital equipment, such as trucks, trailers or other similar
equipment over three-fourths ton capacity.
   USE. The purpose for which any land, structure or building is designed,
maintained or occupied.
   VARIANCE.
      (1)   A relaxation of the terms of the zoning ordinance where such
relaxation will not be contrary to the public interest and where owing to
conditions peculiar to the property and not the result of the action of the
applicant, a literal enforcement of this chapter would result in unnecessary
and undue hardship.
      (2)   As used in this chapter, a VARIANCE is authorized only for height,
area and size of structure, or size of yards and open spaces. Establishment or
expansion of a use otherwise prohibited shall not be allowed by VARIANCE, nor
shall a VARIANCE be granted because of the presence of nonconformities in the
zoning district or adjoining zoning districts.
   YARD. An open space unoccupied and unobstructed from the ground upward,
which is on the same lot with a building, except as otherwise provided herein;
this excludes street and alley rights-of-way.
   ZONING ADMINISTRATOR. The Town Manager of Wiggins, Colorado, or an
authorized representative.
(Ord. 2-98, passed 4-22-1998; Ord. 1-02, passed 4-10-2002; Ord. 7-08, passed 9-
-2016; Ord. 14-2017, passed 10-11-2017; Ord. 07-2024, passed 9-25-2024)
§ 153.016 ZONING ADMINISTRATOR - DUTIES.
   (A)   This chapter shall be administered and enforced by the Town Manager,
who shall be appointed by the Board of Trustees.
   (B)   He or she or his or her deputy shall have the authority to issue
building permits, certificates of occupancy and special review use permits
after such permits have been finally approved by the Board of Trustees.
   (C)   (1)   He or she shall have authority to make inspections and to make
all decisions necessary for the proper enforcement of this chapter.
      (2)   (a)   No oversight or dereliction on the part of the Town Manager
shall legalize, authorize or excuse the violation of any of the provisions of
this chapter.
         (b)   The Town Manager, or his or her deputy, shall perform all the
duties of the Building Inspector.
(Ord. 2-98, passed 4-22-1998)
§ 153.017 BUILDING PERMITS.
   (A)   No building shall be erected, moved (mobile or manufactured home),
remodeled (exterior or interior) or structurally altered and no fence erected,
roof replaced or new driveways or walkways constructed unless a permit thereof
has been issued by the Zoning Administrator, and no permit shall be issued
unless the building or structure proposed is in full conformance with this
chapter.
   (B)   All applications for building permits must be accompanied by drawings
showing plot plan and location; floor plan; height and size of all proposed
buildings; proposed surface drainage; distance from property boundary lines;
ADA accessibility, when applicable; and the location and dimensions of fences,
signs and parking and loading areas.
   (C)   (1)   A fee for the examination and administration of this permit
shall be payable to the town, such a fee shall include an inspection fee
pursuant with the county or such other entity authorized by the Board of
Trustees to perform inspections on the town’s behalf or to recover cost
incurred by the town for inspections.
      (2)   This fee schedule is available at Town Hall.
   (D)   (1)   Without limiting any other remedy provided for herein, whenever
the Zoning Administrator finds any work being performed contrary to the
provisions of this section, he or she is authorized to issue a written stop
work order to the owner of the property involved, to the owner’s agent or to
the person doing the work.
      (2)   The stop work order shall state the reason for the order and the
conditions under which the cited work will be permitted to resume. Failure to
obey the order shall result in a minimum fine of $150 per day, per occurrence,
with each day the violation continues constituting a separate offense. Payment
of a fine does not mitigate the requirement for building permit under this
section.
(Ord. 2-98, passed 4-22-1998; Ord. 20-2016, passed 10-26-2016; Ord. 05-2022,
passed 3-23-2022) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.018 CERTIFICATES OF OCCUPANCY.
   (A)   No land or building shall hereafter be changed in use, nor shall any
new structure, building or land be occupied or used without first having
obtained a certificate of occupancy from the Zoning Administrator.
   (B)   Such certificate shall be issued within five days of the time
notification that the building is completed and ready for occupancy.
(Ord. 2-98, passed 4-22-1998) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.019 ENFORCEMENT AND REVIEW.
   (A)   Complaints regarding violations. Whenever the Administrator receives a
written, signed complaint alleging a violation of this chapter, a town official
shall investigate the complaint within ten days, and take whatever action is
warranted, and inform the complainant in writing what actions have been or will
be taken.
   (B)   Persons liable. The owner, tenant or occupant of any building or land
or part thereof as well as any architect, builder, contractor, agent or other
person who participates in, assists, directs, creates or maintains any
situation that is contrary to the requirements of this chapter may be held
responsible for the violation and suffer the penalties and be subject to the
remedies herein provided.
   (C)   Procedures upon discovery of violations.
      (1)   (a)   If the Administrator finds that any provision of this chapter
is being violated, he or she shall send a written notice to the person
responsible for such violation, indicating the nature of the violation and
suggesting the action necessary to correct it.
         (b)   The first written notice will also contain an invitation to
discuss the violation and the town’s concerns, and the opportunity to negotiate
a reasonable solution to the violation that meets these concerns. Additional
written notices may be sent at the Administrator’s discretion and may order the
action necessary to correct the violation.
      (2)   (a)   The final written notice shall state what action the
Administrator intends to take if the violation is not corrected and shall
advise that the Administrator’s decision or order may be appealed to the Board
of Adjustment.
         (b)   In all cases, an agreement or other enforcement action to end
the violation shall be reached within 90 days of the violation being recognized
by the town.
      (3)   Notwithstanding the foregoing, in cases when delay would seriously
threaten the effective enforcement of this chapter or pose a danger to the
public health, safety or welfare, the Administrator may seek enforcement
without prior written notice by invoking any of the penalties or remedies
authorized below.
   (D)   Permit revocation.
      (1)   A zoning, sign, special use, conditional use or other permit may be
revoked by the town if the permit recipient fails to develop or maintain the
property in accordance with the plans submitted, the requirements of this
chapter or any additional requirements lawfully imposed by the town or if the
information on which the permit approval was based is found to be false or
inaccurate.
      (2)   Before a conditional use or special use permit may be revoked, all
of the notice, hearing and other requirements of this chapter shall be complied
with.
      (3)   (a)   The notice shall inform the permit recipient of the alleged
grounds for the revocation.
         (b)   1.   The burden of presenting evidence sufficient to convince
the town to revoke a permit for any of the reasons set forth in this chapter
shall be upon the party advocating that position.
            2.   The burden of persuasion shall also be upon that party.
Revocation of a permit shall include, insofar as practicable, a statement of
the specific reasons or findings of fact that support the revocation.
      (3)   (a)   Before a zoning or sign permit may be revoked, the
Administrator shall give the permit recipient ten-day notice of intent to
revoke the permit and shall inform the recipient of the alleged reasons for the
revocation and of his or her right to obtain an informal hearing on the
allegations.
         (b)   If the permit is revoked, the Administrator shall provide to the
permittee a written statement of the decision and the reasons therefor.
      (4)   No person may continue to make use of land or buildings in the
manner authorized by any zoning, sign, special use or conditional use permit
after such permit has been revoked in accordance with this section.
   (E)   Judicial review.
      (1)   Every decision of the Town Board granting or denying a conditional
use permit and every final decision of the Board of Adjustment shall be subject
to review by the District Court by proceedings in the nature of certiorari
under Rule 104 of the Colorado Rules of Civil Procedure.
      (2)   The petition for the writ of certiorari must be filed with the
Clerk of District Court within 30 days after the later of the following
occurrences:
         (a)   A written copy of the Board’s decision has been filed in the
office of the Planning Department; and
         (b)   A written copy of the Board’s decision has been delivered by
personal service or certified mail, return receipt requested, to the applicant
or appellant and every other aggrieved party who has filed a written request
for such copy at the hearing of the case.
      (3)   A copy of the writ of certiorari shall be served upon the town.
(Ord. 2-98, passed 4-22-1998) Penalty, see §
153.999
ZONING
§ 153.030 GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   In their interpretation and application, the provisions of these zoning
regulations shall be held to be minimum requirements adopted for the promotion
of the public health, safety, morals, convenience, comfort, prosperity and
general welfare.
   (A)   Uniformity of regulations.
      (1)   The regulations established by this chapter within each zone shall
apply uniformly to each class or kind of structure or land.
      (2)   Unless exceptions are specified in this chapter, the following
interpretations shall apply.
         (a)   No buildings, structure or land shall be used or occupied, and
no building or structure or part thereof shall be erected, changed,
constructed, moved or structurally altered unless in conformity with all of the
regulations herein specified for the zone in which it is located.
         (b)   No building or other structure shall be erected or altered:
            1.   To exceed the height limitations;
            2.   To accommodate or house a greater number of families; and
            3.   To occupy a greater percentage of the area; to have narrower
or smaller rear yards, front yards, side yards or other open spaces.
         (c)   No part of a yard, or other open space, or off-street parking or
loading space required about or in connection with any building for the purpose
of complying with this chapter, shall be included as part of a yard, open space
or off-street parking or loading space similarly required for any other
building unless specific exception therefor is stated in this chapter.
         (d)   1.   No yard or lot existing at the time of passage of this
chapter shall be reduced in dimension or area below the minimum requirements
set forth herein.
            2.   Yards or lots created after the effective date of this chapter
shall meet at least the minimum requirements established by this chapter.
         (e)   Any use not permitted in a zone either specifically or by
interpretation by the Planning Commission is hereby specifically prohibited
from that zone.
   (B)   Conflict with other provisions of law. Where this chapter is in any
way more restrictive than other provisions of law or ordinance, the provisions
of this chapter shall control.
   (C)   Conflict with private covenants or deeds. In case of a conflict
between this chapter and any private restrictions imposed by covenant or deed,
the responsibility of the Town Manager shall be limited to the enforcement of
this chapter.
   (D)   One principal building to a lot.
      (1)   Only one principal building and its customary accessory buildings
may hereafter be erected on a lot.
      (2)   No building shall be erected on any lot which does not have at
least 50 feet frontage on a publicly dedicated street.
   (E)   Permitted height exceptions.
      (1)   Except as specifically stated in other parts of this chapter, no
building shall be erected, converted, enlarged, reconstructed or structurally
altered to exceed the height limit herein after established for the district in
which the building is located, except that penthouse or roof structures for the
housing of elevators, stairways, tanks, ventilating fans or similar equipment
required to operate and maintain the building, and fire or parapet walls,
skylights, towers, steeples, flagpoles, chimneys, smokestacks, private and
utility radio and television aerials or antennas, ham radio masts, water tanks
or similar structures may be erected above the height limits herein.
      (2)   No such excepted structures may be erected to exceed by more than
15 feet the height limits of the district in which it is located; nor shall
such excepted structures have a total area greater than 25% of the roof area of
the building; nor shall such excepted structures be used for any residential
purpose other than a use incidental to the main use of the building.
      (3)   Private radio, television and ham radio aerials or masts may be
erected to any height providing it is acceptable to F.C.C.
(Ord. 2-98, passed 4-22-1998) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.031 ZONE DISTRICTS.
   (A)   General. In order to implement the provisions of this chapter, the
town is hereby, and in the future may be, divided into the following zoning
districts:
RR   Rural Residential District
ER   Estate Residential District
R-1  Single-Family Residential District
R-2  Residential District
MHPD Mobile Home Park District
BD   Business District
CD   Commercial District
ID   Industrial District
PD   Planned Development District
CON  Conservation District
 
   (B)   Use categories. Uses of property are categorized and allowed in each
of the zoning districts in the following manner.
      (1)   Use-by-right. Uses-by-right include the following:
         (a)   Uses-by-right include the use of land, structures or both which
are authorized by the district zoning classification; and
         (b)   1.   A use-by-right is the principal use(s) permitted in any
given zone district. The design standards of any given zone district comprise
the essential site plan requirements for the placement of a use on a parcel or
in a structure. To construct a use-by-right on a parcel, a building permit is
needed.
            2.   The building permit will require that the use is properly
served by access and utilities and that a plot plan be submitted which is used
to check the setbacks and other design standards of the district. Plot plan
reviews and approvals are a function of town staff.
      (2)   Accessory uses and structures. These uses are naturally and
normally incidental to a use-by-right and comply with all the following
conditions:
         (a)   Is clearly subordinate, incidental and customary to and commonly
associated with the operation of the use-by-right;
         (b)   Is operated and maintained under the same ownership as the use-
by-right on the same zone lot;
         (c)   Includes only those structures or structural features consistent
with the use- by-right;
         (d)   The gross floor area utilized by all accessory uses, except a
private garage, shall not exceed 10% of the total floor area of the use-by-
right on the same property or parcel; and
         (e)   May include home occupations, as defined by the zoning
regulations and/or by zone district.
      (3)   Accessory uses permitted. The following accessory uses are
permitted in the following districts; provided that they are incidental to and
on the same premises as a permitted use. Accessory uses must meet setback and
other design standard requirements in each zone district. Construction of
accessory uses may or may not require a building permit. If a permit is
required, a plot plan showing the location of the accessory use on the zone lot
will be required:
         (a)   Residential uses include the following:
            1.   Garage only for the storage of automobiles, recreational
vehicles and/or two commercial vehicles;
            2.   Automobile parking and loading space, as required in off-
street parking requirements;
            3.   Home occupations or professional activities, but conducted
only by residents living on the premises and not exceeding 25% of the area of
one floor of the principal structure; and
            4.   Any accessory buildings, structures or uses required in
addition to and in conjunction with a use-by-right in the district.
         (b)   Commercial (C): any building or structure incident to and
necessary for the operation of a use-by-right in the district;
         (c)   Industrial (I): any building or structure incident to and
necessary for the operation of a use-by-right in the district;
         (d)   Business (B): any building or structure incident to and
necessary for the operation of a use-by-right in the district; and
         (e)   Conservation (CON): any building or structure incident to and
necessary for the operation of a use-by-right in the district.
      (4)   Conditional use. Uses normally associated with uses-by-right and
permitted in any given zone district upon compliance with certain conditions
and after review and approval of a site plan. See §
153.170.
      (5)   Use by special review.
         (a)   A special review use is a specific use of land or structures or
both which, because of its unique characteristics, cannot be properly
classified as a use-by-right or conditional use. Special review uses require a
public hearing before the Planning Commission and a public hearing before the
Board of Trustees. These uses are usually extraordinary in nature, and a
complete site plan and impact mitigation plan will be required to be reviewed
and approved. See §
153.171. Posting notice on the property for which a special review use
application is pending shall be required. See §
153.173.
         (b)   The following criteria shall be considered by the Planning
Commission and the Board of Trustees in reviewing an application for special
review use.
            1.   Will the proposed use be in harmony and compatible with the
character of the surrounding neighborhood?
            2.   Will the proposed use be consistent with the town’s
comprehensive plan?
            3.   Will the proposed use have a material adverse effect on town
capital improvement programs?
            4.   Will the proposed use result in an over-intensive use of the
land?
            5.   Will the proposed use result in undue traffic congestion or
hazards?
            6.   Will the proposed use cause significant air, water or noise
pollution?
            7.   Will the proposed use require a level of community facilities
and services greater than that available?
            8.   Will the proposed use be detrimental to the health, safety or
welfare of current or future inhabitants of the town?
         (c)   In considering an application for a special review use, the
Planning Commission and Board of Trustees shall consider and may impose
modifications or conditions concerning by way of illustration and not
limitation, the following development features, to the extent such
modifications or conditions are necessary to ensure compliance with the
criteria of division (B)(5)(b) above:
            1.   Size and location of improvements on the site;
            2.   Internal traffic circulation and access to adjoining public
streets;
            3.   Location and amount of off-street parking;
            4.   Fencing, screening and landscaped separations, including open
space;
            5.   Building bulk and location;
            6.   Signs and lighting; and
            7.   Measures to mitigate or address noise, vibration, air
pollution and other environmental influences.
      (6)   Temporary uses.
         (a)   Intent; application; definition.
            1.   The intent of this section is to provide for the regulation of
temporary structures and uses. This section shall apply to temporary
residences, temporary construction offices and temporary signs.
            2.   For the purposes of this section, the term TEMPORARY shall
mean a period of up to six months.
         (b)   General requirements and procedures. Prior to the establishment
and use of a temporary structure, the applicant shall be required to provide
the following:
            1.   a.   Submit a plot plan showing location of the use, setbacks
and any other pertinent information to the Town Manager for review.
               b.   The plan must conform with all applicable zoning
requirements of the district in which the use is to be located. See §
153.172.
            2.   Upon favorable review by the Town Manager, the applicant may
obtain a building permit for the requested use;
            3.   The permit granted by the Town Manager shall expire six months
from the date of issuance. A maximum of three permits may be granted per use.
All temporary uses shall be removed at the expiration of the third permit;
            4.   All written requests for renewal shall be submitted to the
Town Manager a minimum of ten working days prior to expiration date; and
            5.   The applicant must meet any additional requirements necessary
for the health, safety and welfare of the residents of the surrounding area as
determined by the Town Manager.
         (c)   Permitted temporary structures.
            1.   Temporary construction office. A temporary structure for the
storage of construction materials, and a construction office to be used for
managing a construction job may be utilized in all districts with the following
restrictions.
               a.   The unit is to be used only during normal construction
hours by the construction superintendent, construction workers, contractors and
the like.
               b.   While construction is occurring, a temporary construction
office may be utilized provided that it is located within the area of a
recorded final plat or an approved site plan.
               c.   The temporary construction office shall not be utilized as
living quarters for a caretaker, property owner, contractor or others except in
approved cases where security necessitates such occupancy.
            2.   Temporary offices.
               a.   Residential sales. Temporary residential sales offices for
the sale of units in an area shall be permitted in the Residential (R) and PD
Districts with the following restrictions.
                  i.   Sales shall be limited only to those units within the
platted subdivision in which the office is located.
                  ii.   The temporary structure shall be located within the
area of a recorded final plat.
                  iii.   The use of a temporary residential sales office shall
require obtaining a temporary permit with the Town Manager.
               b.   Commercial, business and industrial offices. Temporary
nonresidential offices used for sales or business operation purposes shall be
permitted in the BD, CD, ID and nonresidential and mixed-use PD zone districts
with the following restrictions.
                  i.   Upon obtaining a building permit for a permanent
nonresidential structure, a permit for utilizing a temporary structure on the
premises by the property owner or representative may be obtained.
                  ii.   The temporary office shall be located within the area
of a recorded final plat and an approved site plan.
            3.   Temporary signs. All temporary signs shall be in conformance
with the town sign ordinance. See §
153.180.
            4.   Other temporary structures. Other temporary structures include
the following:
               a.   i.   Use: carnival, circus, bazaar or fair;
                  ii.   Zones: Industrial and Conservation; and
                  iii.   Period: two weeks.
               b.   i.   Use: tent meeting or crusade;
                  ii.   Zones: Industrial and Conservation; and
                  iii.   Period: two weeks.
               c.   i.   Use: parking for another temporary use;
                  ii.   Zones: same as temporary use for which it is required;
and
                  iii.   Period: same as temporary use for which it is
required.
               d.   i.   Use: non-commercial concrete batching plant;
                  ii.   Zones: Industrial and Conservation; and
                  iii.   Period: two months, renewable by Board of Trustees.
               e.   i.   Use: roadside stand;
                  ii.   Zones: Business and Commercial; and
                  iii.   Period: two weeks.
      (7)   Uses not itemized.
         (a)   1.   On its own initiative, the Town Planning Commission may, by
resolution, recommend to the Board of Trustees additions to the uses permitted
and/or uses permitted by special review section of any zoning district, any
other similar use which conforms to the conditions set forth in this section.
The recommendation of the Planning Commission is then forwarded to the Board of
Trustees for their action pursuant to this chapter.
            2.   The criteria to be considered when adding to the zone district
use list are:
               a.   Such use is more appropriate in the use group to which it
is added;
               b.   Such use conforms to the basic characteristics of the use
group to which it is added; and
               c.   Such use does not create any more offensive noise,
vibrations, dust, heat, smoke, odor, glare or other objectionable influences or
more traffic hazards than the minimum amount normally resulting from the other
uses listed in the use group to which it is added.
         (b)   Any use not specifically listed or under consideration by the
Planning Commission for addition at the time of application must be approved as
an addition and/or reviewed as a special use permit within an appropriate zone
district.
         (c)   When any use has been added to any use group in accordance with
this chapter, such use shall be deemed to be listed in the appropriate section
of that use group and shall be added thereto in the published text of this
chapter at the first convenient opportunity, with a notation indicating that
the addition was made in accordance with this section.
(Ord. 2-98, passed 4-22-1998; Ord. 2-09, passed - -2009) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.032 ZONE DISTRICT DESCRIPTIONS.
   Rules of construction of language include the following:
   (A)   The particular controls are general;
   (B)   In the case of any difference of meaning or implication between the
text of these regulations and the captions for each section, the text shall
control;
   (C)   The word “shall” is always mandatory, and not directory. The word
“may” is permissive;
   (D)   Words in the present tense include the future, unless otherwise
indicated; and
   (E)   Words used in the singular form include the plural, and words used in
the plural form include the singular, unless the context clearly indicates the
contrary.
(Ord. 2-98, passed 4-22-1998) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.033 RURAL RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT (RR).
   (A)   Purpose.
      (1)   The RR Rural Residential District is designed to accommodate very
low density single-family residential uses and country estates on large lots
that can possibly accommodate livestock at specified density limits and located
on the fringes of town’s planning influence area.
      (2)   These areas must be served by centralized sewer and water
utilities.
   (B)   Uses-by-right. Uses-by-right include the following:
      (1)   Single-family house with a minimum size of 24 feet wide and 36 feet
long, or 864 square feet on the ground level, including modular homes (one per
parcel; minimum parcel of one acre, but not to exceed five acres);
      (2)   Public parks, playgrounds and other public recreation areas;
      (3)   Public utility distribution mains, lines and the like, which are
underground facilities to service residences;
      (4)   Domestic livestock, limited to swine, sheep, cattle, horses and
mules less than or equal to an animal density of one animal per acre of open
lot space;
      (5)   Satellite dish antennas without towers; ham radio towers;
      (6)   Open space;
      (7)   Accessory buildings, not more than 1,000 square feet, and uses such
as garages and greenhouses;
      (8)   Livestock barns, not more than 1,000 square feet each; and
      (9)    Gardens;
      (10)   Licensed child care homes.
   (C)   Conditional uses. Conditional uses include the following:
      (1)   Golf courses;
      (2)   Public and private schools;
      (3)   Churches and church schools;
      (4)   Fire stations;
      (5)   Small wind energy conversion systems;
      (6)   Crop production, orchards, nurseries and flower production;
      (7)   Utility service facilities; and
      (8)   Communication facilities not exceeding height limits.
   (D)   Special review uses. Special review uses include the following:
      (1)   Home occupations;
      (2)   Central collection sewage treatment facilities, exclusive of
individual septic system;
      (3)   Exotic livestock or animals (domestic animal density limits apply);
      (4)   Group homes and licensed foster care homes;
      (5)   Preschools, nursery schools and child care centers;
      (6)   Small horse boarding operations of four or less animals not owned
by operator; animal densities apply;
      (7)   Water tanks, water and sewer treatment facilities, utility
substations and regulator stations;
      (8)   Major facilities of a public utility, as defined in this chapter;
and
      (9)   Accessory building greater than 1,000 square feet.
(Ord. 2-98, passed 4-22-1998; Ord. 1-02, passed 4-10-2002; Ord. 14-2017, passed
10-11-2017; Ord. 07- 2024, passed 9-25-2024)  Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.034 ESTATE RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT (ER).
   (A)   Purpose.
      (1)   The ER Estate Residential District is designed to accommodate very
low density single-family residential uses and country estates on large lots at
specified density limits and located on the fringes of the town’s planning
influence area.
      (2)   These areas must be served by centralized sewer and water
utilities.
   (B)   Uses-by-right. Uses-by-right include the following:
      (1)   Single-family house with a minimum dwelling space of 1,200 square
feet on the ground level, including modular homes (one per parcel; minimum
parcel of one acre, but not to exceed five acres);
      (2)   Public parks, playgrounds and other public recreation areas;
      (3)   Public utility distribution mains, lines and the like, which are
underground facilities to serve residences;
      (4)   Satellite dish antennas without towers; ham radio towers;
      (5)   Open space;
      (6)   Accessory buildings, not more than 1,000 square feet, and uses such
as garages and green houses; and
      (7)    Gardens;
      (8)   Licensed child care homes.
   (C)   Conditional uses. Conditional uses include the following:
      (1)   Golf courses;
      (2)   Public and private schools;
      (3)   Churches and church schools;
      (4)   Fire stations;
      (5)   Small wind energy conversion systems;
      (6)   Utility service facilities; and
      (7)   Communication facilities not exceeding height limits.
   (D)   Special-review uses. Special review uses include the following:
      (1)   Group homes and licensed foster care homes;
      (2)   Orchards, nurseries and flower production;
      (3)   Home occupations;
      (4)   Central collection sewage treatment facilities, exclusive of
individual septic system;
      (5)   Water tanks, water and sewer treatment facilities, utility
substations and regulator stations;
      (6)   Major facilities of a public utility, as defined in this chapter;
      (7)   Accessory buildings greater than 1,000 square feet; and
      (8)   Preschools, nursery schools and child care centers.
(Ord. 2-98, passed 4-22-1998; Ord. 1-02, passed 4-10-2002; Ord. 14-2017, passed
10-11-2017; Ord. 07- 2024, passed 9-25-2024)  Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.035 SINGLE-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT (R-1).
   (A)   Purpose. The R-1 Single-Family Residential District is designed to
accommodate single-family residential development at low density in areas
within the town that are served by public sewer and water facilities. In order
to maintain the design integrity of this district, no mobile homes will be
allowed in this district.
   (B)   Uses-by-right. Uses-by-right include the following:
      (1)   Single-family house with a minimum size of 24 feet wide and three
feet long, or 864 square feet on the ground level, and built or assembled on a
permanent foundation on site, including modular homes (one per parcel);
      (2)   Public parks, playgrounds and other public recreation areas;
      (3)   Public utility distribution mains, lines and the like, which are
underground facilities;
      (4)   Open space;
      (5)   Gardens;
      (6)   Non-commercial greenhouses less than 150 square feet;
      (7)   Satellite dish antennas without towers; ham radio towers;
      (8)   Accessory buildings, not more than 1,000 square feet, and uses such
as garages;
      (9)   Historical structures; and
      (10)   Licensed child care homes.
   (C)   Special review uses. Special review uses include the following:
      (1)   Public and private schools;
      (2)   Churches and church schools;
      (3)   Fire stations;
      (4)   Home occupations;
      (5)   Communication facilities up to height limit;
      (6)   Utility service facilities;
      (7)   Major facilities of a public utility, as defined in this chapter;
      (8)   Nurseries and day care centers;
      (9)   Convalescent homes and other extended care facilities;
      (10)   Duplexes;
      (11)   Golf courses;
      (12)   Group homes and licensed foster care homes;
      (13)   Use of portable metal Conex boxes or other portable stage
containers by public or private schools, churches and church schools, fire
stations, communications facilities, home care facilities and golf courses.
Special review shall be taken into consideration the surrounding area and
neighborhood as part of the consideration of appropriateness for the approval;
and
      (14)   Community centers.
   (D)   Additional requirements. Additional requirements include the
following.
      (1)   All new residential developments must be reasonably landscaped
within one year.
      (2)   For all multi-family uses, all trash receptacles must be properly
screened from adjacent public rights-of-way and adjacent properties. These
areas shall be designed and used in a manner that will prevent wind and animal
scattering of trash.
      (3)   All roof-mounted equipment shall be properly screened; solar
collectors and heaters and television antennas are exempted.
(Ord. 2-98, passed 4-22-1998; Ord. 1-02, passed 4-10-2002; Ord. 20-2016, passed
10-26-2016; Ord. 14-2017, passed 10-11-2017; Ord. 05-2021, passed 2-24-2021)
Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.036 RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT (R-2).
   (A)   Purpose. This zone district provides areas for low- to moderate-
density residential development and allows for two-family housing units.
   (B)   Uses-by-right. Uses-by-right include the following:
      (1)   All uses-by-right included in the R-1 District;
      (2)   Two-family dwellings that are framed and constructed on-site;
      (3)   Accessory buildings and uses;
      (4)   Duplexes; and
      (5)    Multi-family dwelling;
      (6)   Licensed child care homes.
   (C)   Special review uses. Special review uses include the following:
      (1)   All special review uses included in the R-1 District;
      (2)   Apartments and other multiple family dwellings (i.e., boarding
houses);
      (3)   Multiple family subdivisions (lots or condominiums);
      (4)   Central collection sewage treatment facilities; and
      (5)   Group homes and licensed foster care homes.
   (D)   Additional requirements. All additional requirements included in the
R-1 District.
(Ord. 2-98, passed 4-22-1998; Ord. 14-2017, passed 10-11-2017; Ord. 07-2024,
passed 9-25-2024)  Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.037 MOBILE HOME PARK DISTRICT (MHPD).
   (A)   Purpose.
      (1)   The Mobile Home (MH) District provides a residential zone for
mobile home parks within the town.
      (2)   This district allows the use/siting of the types of mobile homes
and manufactured homes that may not qualify for location in other residential
zone districts.
      (3)   For the purposes of the Mobile Home Park District (MHPD), the term
MOBILE HOME(S) shall include MANUFACTURED HOME(S).
   (B)   Interpretation. In the interpretation and application of the
provisions of this chapter, they are not intended to abrogate or annul any
permits issued before the effective date of this chapter or any easement,
covenant or any other private agreement.
   (C)   Definitions. For the purpose of this Zoning District “MHPD”, the
following definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or
requires a different meaning.
      ACCESS STREET. Streets designed to carry vehicular traffic from a mobile
home park to a public street or highway system.
      ACCESS WAY. A way for vehicular traffic providing access from a mobile
home stand to an abutting collector street, cul-de-sac street or service
street.
      COLLECTOR STREET. A private street, within a mobile home park, designed
to gather vehicular traffic from abutting mobile home spaces, cul-de-sac
streets and service streets and to carry it to an access street.
      LICENSE. A written, non-transferable license issued by the Town Board
authorizing the operation of a mobile home park under these regulations.
      MANUFACTURED HOME. A single-family dwelling unit which is partially or
entirely manufactured in a factory and is not less than 24 feet in width and 36
feet (24 feet by 36 feet) in length. It is installed on an engineered permanent
foundation and has brick, wood or cosmetically equivalent exterior siding and a
pitched roof. It is certified to the National Manufactured Housing Construction
and Safety Standards Act of 1974, 42 U.S.C. §§ 5401 et seq., as amended.
      MOBILE HOME. A detached, transportable, one-family dwelling unit intended
for year- round occupancy that is at least 12 feet in width and 52 feet in
length and 624 square feet or more, and to be no more than 20 years old based
upon its year of manufacture. At a minimum, it must contain sleeping
accommodations, flush toilet, a tub or shower bath, kitchen facilities with
plumbing and electrical connections intended for attachment to outside systems.
All MOBILE HOMES must be certified to the National Manufactured Housing
Construction and Safety Standards Act of 1974, 42 U.S.C. §§ 5401 et seq., as
amended. These homes are made to be readily movable as a unit or units on its
(their) own running gear and designed to be used as a dwelling unit(s) without
a permanent foundation and which unit or units are not licensed as a
recreational vehicle or park model. The phrase “without a permanent foundation”
indicates that the support system is constructed with the intent that
the MOBILE HOME placed thereon may be moved from time to time at the
convenience of the owner.
      MOBILE HOME LOT OR SPACE. A plot of ground within a mobile home park
designed for the accommodation of one mobile home and its permitted accessory
buildings and uses.
      MOBILE HOME PARK. Any plot of ground zoned MHPD upon which two or more
mobile homes, occupied or intended to be occupied for dwelling, are located for
any period of time, regardless of whether or not a charge is made for such
accommodations, and whether or not the mobile homes and/or the land are owned
by the occupants. A license is required.
      MOBILE HOME STAND. The portion of an individual mobile home space which
has been reserved for the placement of a mobile home, and structures or
additions appurtenant to the mobile home.
      PORTABLE UTILITY BUILDING. A structure located on a mobile home lot,
which is designed and used solely for the storage and use of personal equipment
and possessions of the mobile home occupants.
      PORTABLE UTILITY BUILDING STAND. The ground located beneath the portable
utility building.
      RECREATIONAL VEHICLE (RV). A wheeled vehicle intended to provide
temporary living accommodations. It is either self-propelled, hauled or towed
by a non-commercial vehicle. Included are units commonly referred to as travel-
trailers, camper-trailers, trailer-coaches, motor homes and pickup campers. It
is not a mobile home.
      SERVICE BUILDING. A building housing laundry facilities, operated by the
mobile home park management, recreational facilities, storage and other
activities, facilities and uses which may be authorized or approved by the
Board, pursuant to the procedures delineated in this chapter.
      SERVICE STREET. A private street, within a mobile home park, designed to
be used primarily for service vehicles, such as garbage trucks, fire trucks and
mobile home transport vehicles.
      SET UP REQUIREMENTS FOR MOBILE HOMES. See §§
153.055 through
153.070.
      SITE. A Mobile Home Park District.
      STREET FRONTAGE. The side of a mobile home space abutting a street or
roadway and ordinarily regarded as the front of the mobile home space. On a
corner mobile home space, only one side shall be considered as the front, and
the shorter street frontage shall be considered the front of the mobile home
space.
      UNIT. Mobile home space.
   (D)   Uses-by-right. Uses-by-right include the following:
      (1)   Mobile homes, at least 12 feet in width and 52 feet in length, and
624 square feet or more and be no more than 20 years old based upon its year of
manufacture;
      (2)   Mobile home parks;
      (3)   Accessory uses, buildings and structures;
      (4)   Open space;
      (5)   Public parks and playgrounds;
      (6)   Public utility mains, lines and underground facilities; and
      (7)    Satellite dish antennas without towers
      (8)   Licensed child care homes.
   (E)   Special review uses. Special review uses include the following:
      (1)   Manufactured homes used as service buildings;
      (2)   Churches and church schools;
      (3)   Golf courses;
      (4)   Communication facilities not exceeding height limits;
      (5)   Home occupations;
      (6)    Central collection sewage treatment facilities;
      (7)   Major facilities of a public utility, as defined in this chapter;
      (8)   Water tanks, water treatment facilities, utility substations and
regulator stations, water reservoirs;
      (9)   Any mobile home less than 12 feet in width and 52 feet in length or
more than 20 years old based upon its year of manufacture;
      (10)   Parking areas and/or facilities for recreational vehicles; and
      (11)   Group homes and licensed foster care homes.
(Ord. 2-98, passed 4-22-1998; Ord. 1-02, passed 4-10-2002; Ord. 14-2017, passed
10-11-2017; Ord. 07- 2024, passed 9-25-2024)  Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.038 BUSINESS DISTRICT (BD).
   (A)   Purpose. This zone district is designed to accommodate a wide variety
of business activities in addition to mixed-use residential, office businesses
and the municipal center. The BD zone will serve as the primary business core
of the town and be pedestrian-oriented, resulting in the provision of adequate
space for the development of attractive, centralized, people-oriented
environments where retail enterprises will provide sales and services
responding to the needs of the town, tourists and the surrounding agricultural
community.
   (B)   Uses-by-right. Uses-by-right include the following:
      (1)   Retail and business use such as:
         (a)   Attorney-at-law/legal services;
         (b)   Antique shops
         (c)   Artist supply stores;
         (d)   Auto and truck parts store;
         (e)   Banks (drive-in facilities are allowed);
         (f)   Barber and beauty shops;
         (g)   Book and stationery stores;
         (h)   Clothing stores;
         (I)   Communication facilities up to the height limit;
         (j)   Copy centers;
         (k)   CPA/bookkeeping services;
         (l)   Craft stores;
         (m)   Department stores;
         (n)   Drug stores;
         (o)   Dry cleaning and dying establishments;
         (p)   Dry goods and variety stores;
         (q)   Electrical and household appliance stores;
         (r)   Farm equipment sales and repair shops;
         (s)   Florists;
         (t)   Furniture stores;
         (u)   Gift shops;
         (v)   Grocery stores;
         (w)   Hardware stores;
         (x)   Insurance agencies;
         (y)   Jewelry stores;
         (z)   Laundromats;
         (aa)   Libraries;
         (bb)   Medical and dental clinics;
         (cc)   Membership clubs, public or private;
         (dd)   Mortuaries and funeral homes;
         (ee)   Music, radio, television and video stores;
         (ff)   Newspaper publications;
         (gg)   Newsstands;
         (hh)   Office supply stores;
         (ii)   Offices for business, professional and governmental activities;
         (jj)   Optometrist shops;
         (kk)   Parking lots for customers and employee parking (off-premises
lots);
         (ll)   Package liquor stores;
         (mm)   Paint stores;
         (nn)   Pet shops;
         (oo)   Photographic studios, equipment and supply stores;
         (pp)   Post offices;
         (qq)   Printers;
         (rr)   Public utility collection offices;
         (ss)   Radio and TV stations and other communication businesses;
         (tt)   Realty/land offices;
         (uu)   Restaurants and other eating and drinking establishments
without drive-in facilities;
         (vv)   Senior centers;
         (ww)   Shoe stores;
         (xx)   Sporting goods and athletic equipment stores;
         (yy)   Theaters (indoors);
         (zz)   Toy stores;
         (aaa)   Travel agencies;
         (bbb)   Video rentals; and
         (ccc)   Other similar retail establishments not of an industrial or
wholesale nature.
      (2)   Utility service facilities;
      (3)   Accessory buildings and uses; and
      (4)   Recreational vehicle storage buildings.
   (C)   Conditional uses. Conditional uses include the following:
      (1)   Auto and truck repair shops;
      (2)   Bed and breakfast homes;
      (3)   Car dealerships;
      (4)   Health club/gym;
      (5)   Restaurants with drive-in facilities;
      (6)   Utility service facilities where height limits are exceeded; and
      (7)   Cabinet, wood working or carpentry shops.
   (D)   Special review uses. Special review uses include the following:
      (1)   Builders’ supply and lumber yards;
      (2)   Used car dealers;
      (3)   Community centers;
      (4)   Convalescent homes, and other extended care facilities;
      (5)   Drive-in restaurants;
      (6)   Frozen food lockers;
      (7)   Gasoline stations;
      (8)   Government buildings, police station or fire station;
      (9)   Hospitals and nursing homes;
      (10)   Hotels and motels;
      (11)   Lounges or clubs;
      (12)   Multiple family dwellings;
      (13)   Off-street automobile parking lots;
      (14)   Public transportation terminals;
      (15)   Major facilities of a public utility, as defined in this chapter;
      (16)   Recreational vehicle storage yards;
      (17)   Rooming and boarding houses;
      (18)   Railroad facilities;
      (19)   Shopping centers;
      (20)   Single-family dwelling within a business establishment for care
taking purposes;
      (21)   Warehouses;
      (22)   Water tanks, water and sewer treatment facilities and regulator
stations;
      (23)   Communication facilities where height limits are exceeded;
      (24)   Recycling centers;
      (25)   All uses-by-right included in the R-1 District;
      (26)   Use of portable Conex boxes or other portable storage containers;
and
      (27)   Churches and church schools.
(Ord. 2-98, passed 4-22-1998; Ord. 20-2016, passed 10-26-2016; Ord. 05-2021,
passed 2-24-2021) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.039 COMMERCIAL DISTRICT (CD).
   (A)   Purpose. To provide land for a range of commercial uses including
wholesale businesses, services and sales that will respond to both the need of
the town and the surrounding agricultural community.
   (B)   Uses-by-right. Places for the conduct of commercial and service
activities, not of an industrial nature, including, but not limited to, the
following:
      (1)   Uses-by-right allowed in the Business District (BD) section of this
chapter;
      (2)   Amusement and general recreational facilities;
      (3)   Auto and truck repairs;
      (4)   Auto and truck sales – new and used;
      (5)   Bowling alleys;
      (6)   Building materials, farm and ranch materials center;
      (7)   Cabinet, wood working or carpentry shops;
      (8)   Car washes;
      (9)   Contractor’s office with outside storage of construction materials
or equipment;
      (10)   Dry cleaning plants;
      (11)   Electrical, heating, painting, plumbing, roofing or ventilating
shops;
      (12)   Heavy equipment sales – new and used;
      (13)   Feed mills and grain elevators;
      (14)   Firewood sales and storage;
      (15)   Flea markets; farmers markets;
      (16)   Fresh or frozen food lockers;
      (17)   Hospitals and nursing homes;
      (18)   Lumber yards;
      (19)   Machine and blacksmith shops;
      (20)   Miniature golf courses, golf driving ranges;
      (21)   Motels and hotels;
      (22)   Nurseries and greenhouses;
      (23)   Printing or publishing establishments;
      (24)   Storage facilities – household goods;
      (25)   Sign painting;
      (26)   Radio and TV stations, telephone exchanges and other
communications facilities – which may exceed height limits – such as towers and
antennas;
      (27)   Rental equipment stores;
      (28)   Restaurants and other eating and drinking establishments with
drive-up facilities;
      (29)   Tack, feed and grain stores;
      (30)   Theaters (outdoor);
      (31)   Tire supply and repair stores;
      (32)   Full-service truck stores;
      (33)   Upholstery supply and repair stores;
      (34)   Veterinary clinics and hospital;
      (35)   Warehousing;
      (36)   Water tanks, water and sewer treatment facilities and regulator
stations; and
      (37)   Welding shops.
   (C)   Special review uses. Special review uses include the following:
      (1)   Special review uses allowed in the Business District §
153.038, with the exception of multi-family and single-family dwellings;
      (2)   Auction houses;
      (3)   Campgrounds and recreational vehicle (RV) parks;
      (4)   Chemical and gas (liquid or pressurized) storage businesses;
      (5)   Commercial storage areas;
      (6)   Gas stations/food stores;
      (7)   Mobile home sales areas;
      (8)   Storage and sale of commercial fertilizer and farm chemicals, and
bulk fuel yards;
      (9)   Trucking terminals and loading docks;
      (10)   Wholesale animal by-product processing;
      (11)   Recycling centers;
      (12)   Other wholesale businesses, storage or sales locations that
conform with current local, state and federal regulations, but are likely to
create smoke, dust, noise, fumes, vibrations or any other deleterious effect
such as air or water pollution;
      (13)   Automobile impound and storage facilities; and
      (14)   Use of portable metal Conex boxes or other portable storage
containers.
(Ord. 2-98, passed 4-22-1998; Ord. 2-09, passed - -2009; Ord. 20-2016, passed
10-26-2016) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.040 INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT (ID).
   (A)   Purpose. Land areas to be used primarily for research and development,
warehousing, product assembly and manufacturing and other service, distribution
and industrial uses that conform with local, state and federal environmental
standards.
   (B)   Uses-by-right. Uses-by-right include the following:
      (1)   Automobile service stations with gasoline pumps and retail gift and
sundry sales;
      (2)   Bakeries – wholesale and retail;
      (3)   Bars and lounges;
      (4)   Boats sales and storage;
      (5)   Building materials – wholesale and retail;
      (6)   Emergency response facilities;
      (7)   General merchandise wholesale; retail sales allowed;
      (8)   Heavy equipment, truck and farm implement sales and repair;
      (9)   Home repair centers – wholesale and retail;
      (10)   Warehouses, with no storage of dangerous or flammable material and
no selling of merchandise and other tangible goods or services from any unit;
      (11)   Motor vehicle and motorized equipment sales, service and repair;
      (12)   Product distribution and storage facilities (warehouse);
      (13)   Public and private parking lots;
      (14)   Public and private recreation areas;
      (15)   Recreational vehicle storage yards;
      (16)   Temporary construction office;
      (17)   Temporary office; and
      (18)   Oil and gas well drilling service operations, storage yards and
offices.
   (C)   Accessory uses. Accessory uses include the following:
      (1)   Storage buildings for equipment;
      (2)   Below ground utility mains;
      (3)   Parking and loading areas to service the industrial operation; and
      (4)   Use of portable metal Conex boxes or other portable storage
containers.
   (D)   Special review uses. Special review uses include the following:
      (1)   All special review uses included in §
153.039;
      (2)   Utility generation facility;
      (3)   Above ground utility transmission lines – on or off site;
      (4)   Water tanks, water and sewage treatment facilities;
      (5)   Communication facilities where height limits are exceeded;
      (6)   Utility service facilities where height limits are exceeded;
      (7)   Adult amusement, entertainment or business establishment;
      (8)   Commercial airports and heliports;
      (9)   Crop dusting operations and associated chemical storage and
airstrips;
      (10)   Animal sales yard;
      (11)   Storage or warehousing of any dangerous or toxic chemicals or
products, fertilizers, farm chemicals and the like;
      (12)   Concrete, asphalt and mortar batching plants;
      (13)   Aircraft related recreational facilities;
      (14)   Manufacturing, assembly and distribution of secondary and basic
goods;
      (15)   Commercial storage areas and warehouses used to store or
distribute goods and commodities (food stuffs, grains and the like);
      (16)   Private and public storage areas;
      (17)   Public safety facilities;
      (18)   Truck terminals and loading areas;
      (19)   Junk, scrap metal, auto wrecking and equipment storage and salvage
yards;
      (20)   Recycling centers;
      (21)   Commercial synthetic fuel plants;
      (22)   Assembling and light manufacturing plants;
      (23)   Food and beverage processing plants;
      (24)   Bottling plants; and
      (25)   Scientific research facilities.
(Ord. 2-98, passed 4-22-1998; Ord. 20-2016, passed 10-26-2016) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.041 PLANNED DEVELOPMENT DISTRICT (PD).
   (A)   Purpose.
      (1)   The PD Planned Development District is established to encourage
innovations in residential, commercial, industrial and recreational development
by allowing for mixed land uses, variations in development densities and
variety in the type, design and layout of buildings in a manner not allowed
under traditional zoning.
      (2)   The PD District provides a means for clustering development and
allowing for the preservation of open space, more effective land utilization
and for more cost-effective and efficient extensions of infrastructure.
      (3)   The PD District is intended to provide a means for developing large
or several different tracts of land into building and use complexes with a
continuity of design and development. It shall not be available as a means to
develop a single lot or several lots of average size.
   (B)   PD requirements.
      (1)   The boundaries of the PD are not delineated in this chapter but
shall be fixed by amendment of the town’s zoning resolution and map, at such
times in the future as such district may be applied to specific real property
in this town.
      (2)   The PD shall be consistent with the intent and policies of the
comprehensive plan.
      (3)   The PD shall be designed in a manner such that it protects the
environmental assets of the area including considerations of elements such as
plant and wildlife, streams and storm drainage courses and scenic vistas.
      (4)   The planned development’s relationship to and compatibility with
its surroundings shall be considered in order to avoid adverse effects caused
by traffic circulation, building height or bulk, lack of screening or
intrusions on privacy.
      (5)   The PD design and construction plans shall take into account
characteristics of soils, slopes and potential geological hazards, in a manner
intended to protect the health, safety and welfare of potential users of the
PD. These aspects of the plan must be accompanied by a detailed soil
engineering report on the suitability of the area for the intended use and the
necessary precautions needed to bring the area to a state of structural
soundness before building permits may be issued.
      (6)   Design and construction of the PD shall include adequate, safe and
convenient arrangements for pedestrian circulation, roadways, driveways, off-
street parking and loading space.
      (7)   The mixture of uses and densities in a PD is negotiable. The
applicant must demonstrate the positive benefits to the town of the PD district
classification versus a traditional single-district zone classification.
      (8)   The plans for the proposed planned development shall indicate the
particular portions of the project that the developer intends to develop under
various use categories. Densities, averages and permitted uses shall be
detailed for all development areas within the PD. A summary chart indicating
development standards applicable to entire PD and/or separate areas within the
PD will be required.
      (9)   The total parking requirements of the PD will not exceed the sum of
the parking that would be required for each use. However, all the parking
required for each district does not have to be provided within that district,
and total parking requirements may be reduced, if the developer demonstrates to
the town using industry standards that the total number of spaces are not
needed within the PD.
      (10)   Planned open spaces within the PD, including those spaces being
used as public or private recreation sits, shall be protected by adequate
covenants running with the land or by conveyances or dedications.
      (11)   A minimum of 25% of the total PD area shall be devoted to open-air
recreation or other usable open space (public or quasi-public). USABLE OPEN
SPACE shall be defined as open area designed and developed for use by the
occupants of the development or by others for uses, including, but not limited
to, recreation, courts, gardens, parks and walkways. The terms may include
space devoted to streets, parking and loading areas. Open space percentages
within separate land use areas of a PD may vary from the 25% figure, but the
total amount of open area must equal 25% of the overall acreage. This amount of
open space may include any publicly dedicated land for parks and open space.
      (12)   Traffic circulation shall be determined by review of each Planned
Development. The PD must have an adequate internal street circulation system.
Public streets must serve all planning areas and meet minimum town construction
standards for use by Police and Fire Department vehicles for emergency
purposes. Each nonresidential structure or use in the PD must provide off-
street loading spaces, loading berths, service courts or accesses for delivery
and service vehicles.
   (C)   PD approval process.
      (1)   Final PD plan. In connection with any request for PD zoning, an
application for a final PD plan shall be submitted in accordance with the
requirements of §
153.176. Upon completion of staff review of the application materials, the Town
Manager shall schedule the PD proposal for public hearings before the Planning
Commission and the Board of Trustees. The Planning Commission shall review the
proposed PD plan and send its recommendations to the Board of Trustees. The
Board of Trustees shall approve, approve with conditions or deny the final PD
plan in accordance with the criteria set forth in this section.
      (2)   Notice. Prior to the public hearings on the final PD plan, notice
of the time, place and subject matter of the hearings shall be provided as
follows:
         (a)   Published once in a newspaper of general circulation in the town
at least 15 days prior to the hearing date of the Board of Trustees;
         (b)   Mailed by first-class, certified or registered mail to all
owners of legal or equitable interests in the land, and owners of adjoining
property within 300 feet of the outside boundaries of the property as shown by
the application at least 15 days in advance of the hearings; and
         (c)   Posted on the property at least 15 days in advance of the
hearing. The specification for such posting shall be as described in §
153.173.
      (3)   Amendments to the final PD plan. An amendment to the final PD shall
follow the same process for approval of the original final PD plan, except the
Town Manager may approve minor changes to the finial PD plan that do not:
         (a)   Change the permitted uses;
         (b)   Increase the height of buildings or structures;
         (c)   Decrease the amount of required off-street parking; or
         (d)   Reduce minimum open space or yards required.
      (4)   Effect of the final PD plan.
         (a)   After the final PD plan has been approved, the use of the land
and the construction, modification or alteration of any building or structures
within the Planned Development will be covered by the approved final PD plan.
         (b)   The approved final PD plan shall constitute the zoning document
for the planned development and shall govern all land development with such PD
area.
   (D)   Submission requirements.
      (1)   The materials listed in §§
153.174 and
153.175 must be submitted, at minimum, to the town for review of the PD. The
Town Manager will detail the submission requirements for each submission stage.
      (2)   Additional items may be requested by the town at each stage of the
process.
   (E)   Enforcement and modifications of PD provisions.
      (1)   To further the mutual interest of the residents, occupants and
owners of a planned development and of the public in the preservation of the
integrity of the plan, the provisions of the plan relating to the use of land
and the location of common open space shall be in the best interests of the
town and shall be enforceable in law or inequity by the town without limitation
on any powers or regulation otherwise granted by law.
      (2)   All provisions of the PD shall run in favor of the residents,
occupants and owners of the planned development, but only to the extent
expressly provided in the plan and in accordance with the terms of the plan,
and, to that extent, said provisions, whether recorded by plat, covenant,
easement or otherwise, may be enforced at law or in equity by residents,
occupants or owners acting individually, jointly or through an organization
designated in the plan to act on their behalf. However, no provisions of the
plan shall be implied to exist in favor of residents, occupants and owners
except as to those portions of the plan which have been finally approved.
      (3)   All those provisions of the plan authorized to be enforced by the
town may be modified, removed or released by the town, subject to the
following.
         (a)   No modification, removal or release of the provisions of the
plan by the town shall affect the rights of the residents, occupants and owners
of the planned development to maintain and enforce those provisions at law or
equity as provided above.
         (b)   No substantial modification, removal or release of the
provisions of the plan by the town shall be permitted except upon a finding by
the town, following a public hearing called and held in accordance with the
provisions of this chapter, that the modification, removal or release is
consistent with the efficient development and preservation of the entire
planned development, does not affect in a substantially adverse manner either
the enjoyment of land adjacent from the planned development or the public
interest, and is not granted solely to confer a special benefit upon any
person.
         (c)   Residents and owners of the planned development may, to the
extent and in the manner expressly authorized by the provisions of the plan,
modify, remove or release their rights to enforce the provisions of the plan,
but no such action shall affect the right of the town to enforce the provisions
of the plan.
(Ord. 2-98, passed 4-22-1998; Ord. 14-2017, passed 10-11-2017) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.042 CONSERVATION DISTRICT (CON).
   (A)   Purpose.
      (1)   The Conservation District is established to preserve the
environment and natural character of the landscape within the district.
      (2)   Land within the district may be protected from development, but may
also be used for trails, buffering between developed land uses and preserving
valuable natural features. In addition, this district is to provide open space
areas for passive, active and developed recreation activities.
   (B)   Uses-by-right. Uses-by-right include the following:
      (1)   Agricultural uses with the exception of animal feeding operations;
provided no structures are necessary;
      (2)   Golf courses;
      (3)   Playgrounds; and
      (4)   Public and private parks, open space areas and natural features.
   (C)   Special review uses. Special review uses include the following:
      (1)   Recreation facilities, ball fields and the like;
      (2)   Fairgrounds;
      (3)   Fishing ponds;
      (4)   Parking areas for all uses in this district;
      (5)   Trails;
      (6)   Public utility distribution mains, lines and the like, which are
underground facilities;
      (7)   Campground areas for tourists used for camper units, camp trailers
and tents;
      (8)   Cemeteries;
      (9)   Outdoor theaters;
      (10)   Schools;
      (11)   Water and sewer treatment facilities;
      (12)   Water storage reservoirs;
      (13)   Other recreation uses, with or without accompanying structures;
      (14)   Concession stands, club houses and commercial sales related to
recreational uses locate inside or attached to club houses, fairgrounds
buildings and other similar uses;
      (15)   Correctional facility; and
      (16)   Major facilities of a public utility, as defined in this chapter.
(Ord. 2-98, passed 4-22-1998) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.043 DISTRICT SCHEDULE OF REQUIREMENTS.
   The schedule of requirements includes basic bulk, setback, density,
intensity and open space requirements for each zone district. Additional
requirements are listed for uses permitted by special review.
Schedule of Requirements
Residential Districts (See Note #1)
Standard E-R R-1 R-2 R-R MHPD
Schedule of Requirements
Residential Districts (See Note #1)
Standard                                E-R    R-1   R-2   R-R    MHPD
Minimum lot area (square feet)          43,560 8,750 8,750 43,560 5,000
Minimum dwelling space (square feet)    1,200  864   864   864    480
(see Note #2)
Max building or structure height (feet) 40     40    40    40     30
(see Notes #3, 4)
Maximum height of accessory uses (feet) 25     20    20    25     20
Maximum number of stories               3      3     3     3      1
Minimum lot width (feet)                150    70    70    150    50
Yard Requirements (feet) Front yard setback from all roads: (See Notes #5,
6)
Yard Requirements (feet) Front yard setback from all roads: (See Notes #5,
6)
Local                                   25      25    25    25      25
Side yard (accessory use)               3       3     3     3       3
Side yard (principal use) (see Note #6) 25      7     7     25      7
Rear yard (principal uses)              50      3     3     50      15
Rear yard                               50      3     3     50      3
Rear entry garages                      50      15    15    50      15
Maximum lot area                        5 acres - - - - - - 5 acres - - -
Maximum lot coverage                    20%     - - - - - - 20%     - - -
Minimum landscaped open space           - - -   20%   30%   - - -   30%
NOTES:
1) All requirements subject to Uniform Building Code standards for
specific type of construction;
2) Dwelling space as measured by interior walls;
3) Number of stories does not include a crawlspace nor a basement;
4) Subject to Uniform Building Code restrictions regarding type of
construction;
5) Where lots comprising 25% or more of the frontage of any block are
developed with buildings having a predominate setback, no building
hereafter erected shall project beyond the predominate setback so
established; provided that no setback shall be greater than 50 feet; and
6) For all residential corner lots, the front and the street-facing side
of the building shall comply with the setback requirement of the street
upon which the front of the building faces.
Schedule of Requirements
Commercial and Business District (see Note #1)
Standard BD CD
Schedule of Requirements
Commercial and Business District (see Note #1)
Standard                                    BD    CD
Minimum lot area (square feet):
   - Nonresidential                      3,125 9,375
   - Residential (see Note #2)           8,750 8,750
Maximum building or structure height (feet) 50    50
Minimum lot width                           25    75
Maximum number of stories                   4     4
 
Yard Requirement (feet)
Front yard setback                
   - Arterial (through stree10 30
Side yard (see Note #3)        0  10
Rear yard                      20 25
NOTES:
1) All requirements subject to Uniform Building Code standards for specific
type of construction;
2) Residential minimum lot sizes in both the BD and the CD shall conform to
the requirements of the R-2 District; and
3) In the CD, the minimum side yard shall be 10 feet for the first 25 feet of
the building height. Buildings in excess of 25 feet shall increase the side
yard setback 1 foot for each 2 feet of building height over 25 feet to a
maximum of 25 feet.
Schedule of Requirements
Industrial District
Standard ID
Schedule of Requirements
Industrial District
Standard                                                              ID
Minimum lot area (square feet)                                        14,000
Maximum building or structure height (feet)                           50
Maximum number of stories                                             4
Minimum lot width (feet)                                              125
Yard requirements (feet)
Minimum setback from residential zone district boundaries (shall
include landscaping as determined by the Zoning Administrator,        100 feet
including a minimum of 6 conifer trees per 100 feet with a minimum 4-
inch base caliper for each tree)
Minimum setback from residential zone district boundaries (shall
include landscaping as determined by the Zoning Administrator,        50 feet
including a minimum of 4 conifer trees per 100 feet with a minimum 4-
inch base caliper for each tree)
Side yard setback (feet)                                              20
Rear yard setback (feet)                                              30
 
Schedule of Requirements
Conservation District
Standard                                    CON
Minimum lot area (square feet)              8,750
Maximum building or structure height (feet) 30
Maximum number of stories                   2
Minimum lot width (feet)                    70
Maximum lot coverage                        35%
 
Yard Requirements (feet):
Front yard setback (feet) 30
Side yard setback (feet)  10
Rear yard setback (feet)  25
 
   (A)   Zoning amendments (rezoning).
      (1)   Amendments to the text of this chapter or to the zoning map are
made according to the provisions of this section.
      (2)   Amendments, supplements, changes or repeal of this chapter or any
section thereof, or to the official zoning map may be initiated by application
of:
         (a)   Any citizen, group of citizens, firm or corporation owning
property in the town;
         (b)   The Planning Commission; or
         (c)   The Town Board of Trustees.
   (B)   Amendment requests. Requests to amend this chapter initiated by the
Town Board or Planning Commission, or by town staff, will be prepared as a
draft ordinance by the Town Attorney and planning staff, after review and
recommendation by the Planning Commission and presented to the Town Board for
the scheduling of a public hearing.
   (C)   Petitions.
      (1)   Any citizen of the town who owns property may petition the Town
Board to amend this chapter by filing a petition with the Administrator.
      (2)   If the petition is to amend the text of this chapter, then one
typewritten copy of the text is to be submitted to the Administrator.
      (3)   If the petition is to amend the zoning district classification, the
petitioner must be the owner of the affected property or accompany the
amendment request with a petition signed by owners of a majority of the land
affected by the amendment request.
      (4)   This petition shall include items listed in §
153.176 as well as other information deemed relevant by the Administrator or
required by this chapter.
   (D)   Hearings. Upon receiving said application, the Administrator shall
schedule a date for Planning Commission review at a public meeting and a date
for a public hearing before the Town Board.
   (E)   Planning Commission consideration.
      (1)   (a)   All applications for changes to the zoning ordinance or map
shall be referred by the Town Manager to the Planning Commission. The Planning
Commission will review the proposed amendment ordinance within a period of 30
days so as to have recommendations to present to the Board at the public
hearing.
         (b)   However, the Planning Commission can also ask the Board to delay
its final decision if the Commission is not ready to make recommendations at
the public hearing.
      (2)   The Town Board is required to have the recommendations of the
Planning Commission before making a decision, but it is not bound by any
recommendation of the Commission.
      (3)   (a)   The Planning Commission shall review the proposed amendment
relative to the goals and policies of the town’s comprehensive plan, and any
other appropriate approved plans.
         (b)   In particular, the Planning Commission shall advise the Town
Board if the adoption of the proposed amendment would necessitate a
comprehensive plan amendment, and evaluate the amendment according to the
criteria and procedure outlined in the comprehensive plan.
   (F)   Notice of hearing required.
      (1)   No amendment to the text of this chapter may be adopted until a
public hearing has been held on the proposal. Notice shall be given by
publication in the official newspaper or newspaper of general circulation in
the town at least 15 days before the hearing.
      (2)   All amendments shall follow the public notice requirements of §
153.173. If the amendment request was initiated by the town, the town shall be
responsible for meeting the public notice requirements, but not any mailing
requirements. The newspaper notice period is 15 days; mailing notice period is
15 days; and sign posting period is ten days.
   (G)   Town Board action on amendments.
      (1)   The Town Board is not required to take final action on a proposed
amendment within any specific period of time, but shall proceed as
expeditiously as practicable.
      (2)   In deciding whether to adopt a proposed amendment to this chapter,
the central issue before the Town Board is whether the change promotes the
public health, safety and welfare. The Board must consider all potential uses
that may result from a change in zoning and whether these uses are more
appropriate than the range of uses allowed in the existing classification.
   (H)   Protests to zoning district changes. The adoption of any amendment,
supplement, change, modification or repeal shall require the favorable vote of
a majority of the Board of Trustees, except that, under the following
circumstances, a favorable vote of not less than three-fourths of the voting
members shall be required.
      (1)   Whenever a protest against such changes is filed with the Town
Clerk, the protest shall be signed by the owners of 20% or more either of the
lots included in such proposed change, or of those immediately adjacent
extending 100-feet in any direction; or
      (2)   Whenever the Planning Commission has not recommended approval of
such change.
   (I)   Vesting. Properties that are rezoned and have an approved site-
specific development plan (SDP), the substance of which is outlined in §§
153.125 through
153.130, are eligible for vesting of property rights as specified in this
section. Submission requirements for SDPs are found in §
153.177.
   (J)   Submission requirements. Submission requirements for zoning amendments
are found in §
153.176.
   (K)   Zoning map.
      (1)   Official zoning map.
         (a)   There shall be a map known and designated as the official zoning
map which shall be boundaries of all zoning districts within the town’s
planning jurisdiction. The map shall be drawn or acetate or other durable
material from which prints can be made, shall be dated and shall be kept in the
Planning Department.
         (b)   The official zoning map dated ______________ is adopted and
incorporated herein by reference. Amendments to this map shall be made and
proposed in accordance with division (K)(3) below.
         (c)   Should the official zoning map be lost, destroyed or damaged,
the Administrator may have a new map drawn on acetate or other durable material
from which prints can be made. No further Town Board authorization or action is
required so long as no district boundaries are changed in this process.
      (2)   Interpretations of the zoning map. Where uncertainty exists as to
the boundaries of districts as shown on the official zoning map, the following
rules shall apply:
         (a)   Boundaries indicated as approximately following the centerline
of alleys, streets, highways, streams or railroads shall be construed to follow
such centerline;
         (b)   Boundaries indicated as approximately following lot lines, town
limits or extraterritorial boundary lines shall be construed as following such
lines, limits or boundaries;
         (c)   Where a district boundary divides a lot or where distances are
not specifically indicated on the official zoning map, the boundary shall be
determined by measurement, using the scale of the official zoning map; and
         (d)   Where any street or alley is hereafter officially vacated or
abandoned, the regulations applicable to each parcel of abutting property shall
apply to that portion of such street or alley added thereto by virtue of such
vacation or abandonment.
      (3)   Amendments to official zoning map.
         (a)   Amendments to the official map are accomplished using the
procedures that apply to other amendments to this chapter. Map areas changed to
PD shall be numbered sequentially and identified by their case reference number
on the map.
         (b)   The Administrator shall update the official zoning map as soon
as possible after amendments to it are adopted by the town. Upon entering any
such amendment on the map, the Administrator shall change the date of the map
to indicate its latest revision. New prints of the update map may then be
issued.
         (c)   No unauthorized person may alter or modify the official zoning
map.
         (d)   The town shall keep copies of superseded prints of the zoning
map for historical reference.
   (L)   Board of Adjustment appeals, variances interpretations of activities
administered by staff.
      (1)   Board of Adjustment.
         (a)   The Board of Adjustment shall consist of either the Board of
Trustees or five citizen appointees. Each of the three citizen appointees shall
serve terms of three years, with a new member appointed every year. Any member
of the Board of Adjustment may be removed for cause by the Board of Trustees
upon written charges and after public hearing.
         (b)   The members of the Board of Adjustment shall receive such
compensation as the Board of Trustees may provide.
         (c)   The Board of Trustees may appoint associate members of the Board
of Adjustment and shall approve a schedule providing for alternating service of
such alternate members in the event that any regular member is temporarily
unable to act owing to absence from the town, illness, interest in a case
before the Board or any other cause.
         (d)   Meetings of the Board of Adjustment shall meet at the call of
the Chairperson, and at such other times as specified by the Board of
Adjustment in its Rules of Procedure. All meetings of the Board of Adjustment
shall be open to the public. The Chairperson, or in his or her absence, the
acting Chairperson, may administer oaths and compel the attendance of
witnesses. The Board of Adjustment shall keep minutes of its proceedings
showing the vote of each member on each question and showing any absences or
abstentions on each vote. The Board of Adjustment shall keep records of its
examination and other official actions.
         (e)   The Board of Adjustment may adopt supplemental by-laws not
inconsistent herewith.
      (2)   Appeals.
         (a)   Any aggrieved person may appeal a final order or decision of the
Administrator to the Board of Adjustment when there is an alleged error in the
resulting requirement, decision or approval determination appropriate for the
Board of Adjustment review. An appeal is made by filing with the town a written
notice of appeal specifying the reasons for the appeal. A notice of appeal
shall be considered filed with the Administrator and the Board of Adjustment
when delivered to the town offices, and the date and time filing shall be
entered on the notice by the town staff.
         (b)   An appeal must be made within 30 days after the date of the
decision or order appealed from.
         (c)   Whenever an appeal is filed, the Administrator shall forthwith
transmit to the Board of Adjustment all records relating to the action appealed
form.
         (d)   1.   An appeal stays all actions by the Administrator seeking
enforcement of or compliance with the order or decision appealed from, unless
the Administrator certifies to the Board of Adjustment the belief that due to
the facts contained in the certification, a stay would cause imminent peril to
life or property.
            2.   In that case, proceedings shall not be stayed except by order
of the Board of Adjustment or a court, issued on application of the party
seeking the stay, for due cause shown, and after notice to the Administrator.
         (e)   The concurring vote of four members of the Board shall be
necessary to reverse any order, requirement, decision or determination of any
such administrative official or agency or to decide in favor of the appellant.
         (f)   The Board shall hold a public hearing on all appeals after
providing notice in an official paper or newspaper of general circulation in
the town in not less than one issue to be published at least one week in
advance of the regular or special meeting of the Board of Adjustment at which
the appeal is to be considered. Notice shall specify the meeting agenda and
location of the parcel of land which shall be the subject of the hearing and
shall decide the appeal within 60 days of the date of the appeal.
         (g)   All appeals shall follow the public notice requirements outlined
in §
153.173.
         (h)   A written notice of such hearing shall be sent to adjacent
property owners, at least 15 days prior to the hearing. In the event that
adjacent property held in common ownership, the notice shall be sent to the
appropriate homeowners or condominium association. The appellant shall supply
the names of the adjacent property owners at the time of filing the
application.
         (i)   In accordance with the fee schedule contained in this chapter, a
fee shall be charged for each appeal to cover administrative costs of
processing. The appellant shall also be required to reimburse the town for the
cost of any published notices required in consideration of his or her appeal
under the provisions hereof.
         (j)   The Board of Adjustment may reverse, affirm or modify the order,
requirement, decision or determination appealed from and shall make any order,
requirement, decision or determination that, in its opinion, out to be made in
the case before it. To this end, the Board shall have all the powers of the
officer from whom the appeal is taken.
      (3)   Variances.
         (a)   An application for a variance shall be submitted to the Board of
Adjustment by filing a copy of the application with the Administrator.
Applications shall be complete. A staff report shall accompany the application
to the Board.
         (b)   1.   A variance may be granted by the Board of Adjustment if it
concludes that strict enforcement of this chapter would result in practical
difficulties or unnecessary hardship for the applicant and that, by granting
the variance, the spirit of this chapter will be observed, public safety and
welfare secured and substantial justice done.
            2.   It may reach these conclusions if it finds that:
               a.   If the applicant complies strictly with the provisions of
this chapter, he or she can make no reasonable use of his or her property;
               b.   The hardship of which the applicant complains is one
suffered by the applicant rather than by neighbors or the general public;
               c.   The hardship relates to the applicant’s land, rather than
the personal circumstances;
               d.   The hardship is unique and unusual, or nearly so, rather
than one shared by many surrounding properties;
               e.   The variance requested is the minimum that will afford
relief and the least possible modification of the requirements of this chapter;
               f.   The hardship is not the result of the applicant’s own
actions; and/or
               g.   The variance will neither result in the extension of a
nonconforming situation in violation nor authorize the initiation of a
nonconforming use of land, nor conflict with the goals and policies of the
comprehensive plan.
         (c)   In granting variances, the Board of Adjustment may impose such
reasonable conditions as will ensure that the use of the property to which the
variance applies will be as compatible as practicable with the surrounding
properties.
         (d)   A variance may be issued for an indefinite duration or for a
specified duration only.
         (e)   The nature of the variance and any conditions attached to it
shall be entered on the face of the zoning permit, or the zoning permit may
simply note the issuance of the variance and refer to the written record of the
variance for further information. All such conditions are enforceable in the
same manner as any other applicable requirement of this chapter.
      (4)   Map interpretations.
         (a)   The Administrator interprets the official zoning map. The Board
of Adjustment is authorized to hear appeals on zoning map and to pass upon
disputed questions of lot lines or district boundary lines and similar
questions.
         (b)   An application for a map interpretation shall be submitted to
the Board of Adjustment by filing a copy of the application with the
Administrator. The application shall contain sufficient information to enable
the Board to make the necessary interpretation.
         (c)   Interpretations of the zoning map shall follow the guidelines of
this chapter.
      (5)   Requests to be heard expeditiously. The Board of Adjustment shall
hear and decide all appeals, variances requests and requests for
interpretations consistent with the need to follow regularly established agenda
procedures; provide notice; and obtain the necessary information to make sound
decisions.
      (6)   Burden of proof in appeals and variances.
         (a)   When an appeal is taken to the Board of Adjustment, the
Administrator shall have the initial burden of presenting to the Board
sufficient evidence and argument to justify the order or decision under appeal.
The burden of presenting evidence and argument to the contrary then shifts to
the appellant, who shall also have the burden of persuasion.
         (b)   The burden of presenting evidence sufficient to allow the Board
of Adjustment to reach any conclusions, as well as the burden of persuasion on
relevant issues, remains with the applicant seeking the variance.
      (7)   Board of Adjustment action of appeals or variances.
         (a)   The Board of Adjustment, before deciding requests for appeals or
variances, shall hold a public hearing following standard hearing procedures.
         (b)   All motions to reverse, affirm or modify the order, requirement,
decision or determination appealed from shall include, to the extent
practicable, a statement of the specific reasons or findings of facts that
support the motion. If a motion to reverse or modify is not made or fails to
receive the four votes necessary for adoption, then a motion to uphold the
decision appealed from shall be in order. This motion is adopted as the Board’s
decision if supported by a majority of the Board’s membership present.
         (c)   Before granting a variance, the Board must take a separate vote
and vote affirmatively by four of the regular Board members.
         (d)   A motion to deny a variance may be made on the basis that more
than one of the criteria set forth in this chapter are not satisfied or that
the application is incomplete. Insofar as practicable, such a motion shall
include a statement of the specific reasons or findings of fact that support
it. This motion is adopted as the Board’s decision if supported by a majority
of the Board’s membership present.
   (M)   Nonconforming situations.
      (1)   Intent. Within the districts established by this zoning code or
amendments thereto that may be adopted, there exists lots, structures and uses
of land structures, which were lawfully established before this chapter was
passed or amended, but which would be prohibited, regulated or restricted under
the terms of this chapter or future amendment. It is the intent of this section
to permit the nonconformities to continue until they are removed, but not to
encourage their survival. It is the further intent of this chapter that the
nonconformities shall not be enlarged upon, expanded or extended, nor be used
as grounds for adding other structures or uses prohibited elsewhere in the same
district.
      (2)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
         DIMENSIONAL NONCONFORMITY. A nonconforming situation that occurs when
the height, size or minimum floor space of a structure or the relationship
between an existing building or buildings and other building or lot lines does
not conform to the regulations applicable to the district in which the property
is located.
         EFFECTIVE DATE OF THIS CHAPTER. Whenever this section refers to the
effective date of this chapter, the reference shall be deemed to include the
effective date of any amendments to this chapter if the amendment, rather than
this chapter as originally adopted, created a nonconforming situation.
         EXPENDITURE. A sum of money paid out in return for some benefit or to
fulfill some obligation. The term also includes binding contractual commitments
to make future expenditures, as well as any other substantial changes in
position.
         NONCONFORMING SIGN. A sign that, on the effective date of this
chapter, does not conform to one or more of the regulations set forth in this
chapter.
         NONCONFORMING SITUATION.
            1.   A situation when, on the effective date of this chapter, an
existing lot or structure or use of an existing lot or structure does not
conform to one or more of the regulations applicable to the district in which
the lot or structure is located.
            2.   Among other possibilities, a NONCONFORMING SITUATION may arise
because a lot does not meet minimum square footage requirements, because
structures exceed maximum height limitations, because the relationship between
existing buildings and the land (in such matters as density and setback
requirements) is not in conformity with this chapter or because land or
buildings are used for purposes made unlawful by this chapter. Nonconforming
signs shall not be regarded as NONCONFORMING SITUATIONS for purposes of this
chapter.
      (3)   Continuation of nonconforming situations and completions of
nonconforming projects.
         (a)   Where, at the time of the passage of this zoning ordinance, or
amendment thereof, lawful use of land exists which would not be permitted by
the regulations imposed by this chapter, the use may be continued so long as it
remains otherwise lawful, provided that the following apply.
            1.   No such nonconforming situation shall be enlarged or
increased, nor extended to occupy greater area of land than was occupied at the
effective date of adoption or amendment of this chapter.
            2.   No such nonconforming situation shall be moved in whole or in
part to any portion of the lot or parcel other than that occupied by such use
at the effective date of adoption or amendment of this chapter.
            3.   If any such nonconforming situation ceases for any reason for
a period of more than one year, any subsequent use of such land shall conform
to the regulations specified by this chapter for the district in which such
land is located.
            4.   No additional structures not conforming to the requirements of
this chapter shall be erected in connection with such nonconforming use of
land.
            5.   A nonconforming use shall not be changed to a use of lower or
less restrictive classification, but such nonconforming use may be changed to
another use of the same or higher classification.
         (b)   Unless otherwise specifically provided in this chapter and
subject to the restrictions and qualifications listed below, nonconforming
situations that were otherwise lawful on the effect date of this chapter may be
continued.
         (c)   Nonconforming projects may be completed only in accordance with
the provisions listed below.
      (4)   Undeveloped nonconforming lots.
         (a)   When a nonconforming lot can be used in conformity with all the
regulations applicable to the intended use, except for the required lot
minimums, then the lot may be used as proposed. However, no use (e.g., a two-
family residence) requiring a lot size greater than the established minimum lot
size for a particular zone is permissible on a nonconforming lot.
         (b)   When the use proposed for a nonconforming lot is one that is
conforming in all respects but the applicable setback requirements, then the
town may allow deviations from the applicable setback requirements if it finds
that:
            1.   The property cannot reasonably be developed for the use
proposed without such deviations;
            2.   These deviations are necessitated by the size or shape of the
nonconforming lot; and
            3.   The property can be developed as proposed without any
significantly adverse impact on surrounding properties or the public health or
safety.
         (c)   Compliance with applicable building setback requirements is not
reasonably possible if a building that serves the minimal needs of the use
proposed for the nonconforming lot cannot practicably be constructed and
located on the lot in conformity with such setback requirements. However, mere
financial hardship does not constitute grounds for finding that compliance is
not reasonably possible.
         (d)   An adjacent nonconforming lot under the same ownership at the
date this chapter becomes effective may not utilize the provisions of this
division (M)(4), nor may the successors in interest of these lots. The interest
of this section is to require undeveloped nonconforming lots to be combined
with adjacent like lots to create conforming lots.
      (5)   Extension or enlargement of nonconforming situations.
         (a)   1.   Except as specifically provided in this section, no person
may engage in any activity that causes an increase in the extent of
nonconformity of a nonconforming situation.
            2.   In particular, physical alteration of structures or the
placement of new structures on open land is unlawful if such activities results
in:
               a.   An increase in the total amount of space devoted to a
nonconforming use; or
               b.   Greater nonconformity with respect to dimensional
restrictions such as setback requirements, height limitations or density
requirements or other requirements such as parking requirements.
         (b)   A nonconforming use may be extended throughout any portion of a
completed building that, when the use was made nonconforming by this chapter,
was manifestly designed or arranged to accommodate such use. However,
(authorizing the completion of nonconforming project in certain circumstances),
a nonconforming use may not be extended to additional buildings or to land
outside the original building.
         (c)   A nonconforming use of open land may not be extended to cover
more land than was occupied by that use when it became nonconforming, except
that a use involving the removal of natural materials from the lot (e.g., a
sandpit) may be expanded to the limits of its existing permit within the lot.
         (d)   1.   Whenever:
               a.   There exists a lot with one or more structures involving
nonconforming uses on it;
               b.   A change to a conforming use that does not involve any
enlargement of a structure is proposed for such lot; and
               c.   The parking or loading requirements that would be
applicable as a result of the proposed change cannot be satisfied on such lot
because insufficient area is available on the lot practicably be used for
parking or loading, then the proposed use shall not be regarded as resulting in
an impermissible extension or enlargement of a nonconforming situation.
            2.   However, the applicant shall be required to comply with all
applicable parking and loading requirements that can be satisfied without
acquiring additional land and shall also be required to obtain satellite
parking if:
               a.   Parking requirements cannot be satisfied on the lot with
respect to which permit is required; and
               b.   Such satellite parking is reasonably available.
      (6)   Repair, maintenance and reconstruction.
         (a)   Minor repairs to and routine maintenance of property where
nonconforming situations exist are permitted and encouraged. Major renovations
may be done only in accordance with a zoning permit issued pursuant to this
chapter.
         (b)   If a structure located on a lot where a nonconforming situation
exists, then the damaged structure may be repaired or replaced only in
accordance with a zoning permit issued pursuant to this section.
         (c)   For purposes of divisions (M)(6)(a) and (M)(6)(b) above, the
following apply.
            1.   The COST OF RENOVATION OR REPAIR OR REPLACEMENT shall mean the
fair market value of the materials and services necessary to accomplish such
renovation, repair or replacement, as reflected in the plans submitted for a
building permit, or other materials supplied by the applicant.
            2.   The COST OF RENOVATION OR REPAIR OR REPLACEMENT shall mean the
total coast of all such intended work, and no person may seek to avoid the
intent of divisions (M)(6)(a) or (M)(6)(b) above by doing such work
incrementally.
            3.   The APPRAISED VALUATION shall mean the valuation determined by
a professionally recognized property appraiser.
         (d)   The Administrator shall issue the zoning permit authorized by
this section if he or she finds that, in completing the renovation, repair or
replacement work:
            1.   No violation will occur; and
            2.   The permittee will comply to the extent reasonably possible
with all provisions of this chapter applicable to the existing use (except that
the permittee shall not lose his or her right to continue a nonconforming use).
Reasonably possible compliance does not include increasing the size of a lot or
moving a substantial structure sited on a permanent foundation. Mere financial
hardship caused by the cost of meeting such requirements as paved parking does
not constitute grounds for finding that compliance is not reasonably possible.
      (7)   Change in use of property where a nonconforming situation exists.
         (a)   A change in use of a nonconforming situation sufficiently
substantial to require a new zoning, special use or conditional use permit may
only be made in accordance with divisions (M)(2) through (M)(4) above.
         (b)   If the intended change in use is to a principal use permissible
in the district where the property is located, and all other requirements of
this chapter can be complied with.
         (c)   If the intended change in use is to a principal use permissible
in the district where the property is located, but not all requirements of this
chapter can reasonably be complied with; provided that the proposed change does
not add additional nonconformities or increases the extent of nonconformity.
         (d)   If the intended change in use is to another principal use that
is also nonconforming, then the permit issuing board must find that the
proposed development will have less of an adverse impact on those most affected
by it and will be more compatible with the surrounding neighborhood than the
current use.
      (8)   Discontinuation and termination of nonconforming situation.
         (a)   When a nonconforming use is discontinued or abandoned for a
consecutive period of one year, future uses may be for conforming purpose only.
         (b)   Nonconforming uses must meet all the requirements of this
chapter, except those specific to that particular nonconformity if it cannot be
reasonably eliminated. The permit shall specify which nonconformities need not
be corrected.
         (c)   1.   For the purposes of this selection, all of the buildings,
activities and operations maintained on a lot are generally considered as a
whole. For example, failing to rent one apartment in a nonconforming apartment
building for one year shall not result in a loss of the right to rent that
apartment or space thereafter so long as the apartment building as a whole is
continuously maintained.
            2.   However, discontinuing an accessory nonconforming use for the
required period shall terminate the right to maintain it thereafter.
         (d)   When a structure or operation made nonconforming by this chapter
is vacant or discontinued at the effective date of this chapter, the one-year
period for the purpose of this section begins to run on the effective date of
this chapter.
      (9)   Completion of nonconforming projects.
         (a)   1.   Only nonconforming projects which have received vested
property rights by the effective date of this chapter may be completed in
accordance with the terms of their permits, so long as these permits were
validly issued and remain unrevoked and unexpired.
            2.   If a development is designed to be completed in stages, this
division (M)(9) shall apply only to the particular phase under construction or
with vested rights.
         (b)   Except as provided in division (M)(9)(a) above, all projects may
begin or may be continued only pursuant to a variance, zoning, special use,
conditional use or signed permit issued in accordance with this chapter by the
town.
         (c)   1.   The Administrator shall send copies of this section to the
person listed as owners for tax purposes (and developers, if different from
owners) of all properties to which permits have been issued for nonconforming
projects or in regard to which a nonconforming project is otherwise known to be
in some state of development.
            2.   This notice shall be sent by mail not less than 15 days before
the effective date of this chapter.
(Ord. 2-98, passed 4-22-1998; Ord. 2-09, passed - -2009; Ord. 20-2016, passed
10-26-2016) Penalty, see §
153.999
SUPPLEMENTARY DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS AND REGULATIONS
§ 153.055 MOBILE HOME PARKS.
   (A)   Exceptions.
      (1)   Existing mobile home parks. Whenever a mobile home park was in
existence in the town on the effective date of the adoption of this chapter, or
was annexed to the town after the effective date, and such mobile home park
complied with all applicable codes then in effect, the mobile home park shall
be legally nonconforming in terms of these development standards.
      (2)   Existing individual mobile home not within a mobile home park.
Whenever a mobile home was in existence in the town on the effective date of
this chapter, or the property on which the mobile home is located was annexed
to the town after the effective date, and such mobile home complied with all
applicable codes and ordinances then in effect, the mobile home shall be
considered to be legally nonconforming and shall not be subject to the
provisions of this section. Any permit not being used for a period of one year
(i.e., no mobile home is in place for a permit that was issued) shall be void
and the use of the property shall be subject to the terms of this chapter.
   (B)   Required data for application. The required data for the application
includes the following:
      (1)   Name and permanent address of the applicant;
      (2)   Location and legal description of the proposed mobile home park;
      (3)   Topographic map, drawn to scale, of the proposed park showing
entrances, exits, driveways, walkways and the design and arrangement of the
mobile home spaces and permanent structures;
      (4)   Plans and specifications of the proposed buildings; and
      (5)   Additional information may be required by the Planning Commission.
   (C)   District boundaries and requirements. The boundaries of the MHP
District are not delineated in this chapter but shall be fixed by amendment of
the town’s zoning resolution and map, at such times in the future as such
district may be applied to specific real property of this town. Provided,
however that the following apply.
      (1)   General district selection criteria. MHP Districts shall be located
in areas where the effect on surrounding property shall be minimized, where the
health, safety and general welfare of the MHP residents and others will be
protected, and where the topography is suitable for MHP development.
      (2)   Special district requirements.
         (a)   Density and space.
            1.   The MHP shall have a gross density of not more than five and
one-half units per acre.
            2.   The minimum area of a mobile home space shall be 5,000 square
feet with a minimum width of 50 feet.
            3.   The space between the lower edge of the mobile home unit and
the mobile home stand shall be completely enclosed (skirted) with suitable and
uniform material.
            4.   Upon the determination of the Board of Trustees that terrain
or aesthetic conditions require it, groups or clusters of mobile homes shall be
placed on a combined lot where the area of the combined lot is equal to the
minimum lot area required for an equal number of mobile homes on standard lots
and where the minimum setbacks are honored on the combined lots perimeter line.
         (b)   Site conditions.
            1.   The condition of the soil, groundwater level, drainage and
topography within a mobile home park shall not be such as to create hazards to
the property of the health or safety of the occupants of the mobile home park.
            2.   The site of a mobile home park shall not be exposed to health
and safety hazards, such as objectionable smoke, noxious odors, unusual noise,
sudden flooding, subsistence or erosion or the probability of insect or rodent
infestation.
            3.   The entire ground surface within the mobile home park shall be
graded and equipped in such a manner as to provide diversion of water away from
buildings, patios and mobile home stands; to prevent standing water and soil
saturation, which would be detrimental to structures; and to provide adequate
and safe surface drainage.
            4.   For the purpose of preventing soil erosion and unusual and
objectionable dust, exposed ground surfaces within a mobile home park, except
planting beds and areas preserved in their natural state for scenic reasons,
shall be paved; surfaced with gravel, crushed rock or like material; or planted
in a vegetation growth capable of preventing such erosion and dust.
            5.   Storage facilities for vehicles, boats and recreational
vehicles other than private passenger vehicles shall be designed in such a
manner that the view of such storage facilities from property adjoining the
mobile home park and from public roads shall be obscured.
         (c)   Streets and lighting.
            1.   A mobile home park shall be serviced by a private street
system constructed and maintained in compliance with this chapter and providing
safe and convenient access from abutting public streets or roads to all mobile
home spaces.
            2.   The alignment and grade of all such streets shall be properly
adapted to the topography of the mobile home park and shall provide for safety
of traffic movement, satisfactory surface and groundwater drainage and the
proper functioning of sanitary and storm sewer systems.
            3.   All such streets shall be paved, shall be curbed and guttered
and shall be constructed to town specifications.
            4.   The paved surface of such streets, excluding curb and gutter,
shall be of adequate width to accommodate anticipated traffic within the mobile
home park and in any case shall meet the following requirements:
               a.   Access streets and collector streets: 32 feet minimum
width;
               b.   All other service streets and cul-de-sac streets: 32 feet
minimum width; and
               c.   Streets designated as one-way streets: 32 feet minimum
width.
            5.   Cul-de-sacs shall be a minimum of 80 feet in diameter and
shall serve access to no more than 20 mobile home spaces.
            6.   Cul-de-sac streets shall not exceed 500 feet in length.
            7.   Minimum and maximum grades on all streets within a mobile home
park shall be as follows:
               a.   Access streets: 12% maximum in a maximum distance of 150
feet;
               b.   Service streets: 8% maximum; and
               c.   All streets: 0.5% minimum.
            8.   Street intersections shall generally be at right angles, and
for a distance of 75 feet from the point of intersection and along the center
lines of intersecting streets at a right angle shall be maintained as nearly as
possible with consideration for topography and the mobile home park design.
            9.   Where the center lines of intersecting streets are offset to
form a jog, a minimum distance between the points of intersection of the center
lines of the offset intersecting streets shall be 100 feet.
            10.   All service access roads and pedestrian walkways serving more
than two mobile home spaces shall be lighted for the safe movement of vehicles
and pedestrians at night with a minimum illumination of one-foot candles.
            11.   All walkways shall be paved or concrete.
            12.   The site shall have at least one direct access to public
street by a roadway.
            13.   The mobile home park shall be so designed that all mobile
home spaces and accessory buildings abut an interior roadway.
            14.   All access streets shall be designed so as to provide
adequate access to and from the mobile home park site. All access streets shall
be designed so as to minimize impact on existing roads and highways and to
maximize integration with existing transportation facilities in the area. All
access streets shall provide for adjacent or non-adjacent pedestrian walkways,
paths or trails.
         (d)   Parking of motor vehicles.
            1.   A minimum of two paved, off-street parking spaces, having a
minimum area of 320 square feet, shall be maintained for each mobile home
space.
            2.   Off-street automobile parking spaces shall have access to a
paved street, driveway or parking area over an access way of sufficient width
to accommodate an automobile.
            3.   A minimum of one paved, off-street space, having a minimum
area of 160 square feet, shall be maintained for every two mobile home spaces
for the purpose of guest parking. No mobile home space shall be more than 300
feet from such a guest parking space.
         (e)   Utilities.
            1.   All utility services shall be available in a park, and shall
be installed in a workmanlike manner, and in compliance with all applicable
codes and standards. Mobile homes in such parks shall have adequate means of
heating and lighting, installed in accordance with applicable codes and
standards.
            2.   All mobile homes, service buildings and other facilities shall
be provided at all times with an adequate supply of water, and shall be
connected to the public water supply of the town.
            3.   All utility easements shall be a minimum of ten feet in width
and shall provide convenient ingress and egress for construction and
maintenance vehicles.
            4.   The water distribution system shall be so constructed that no
more than 25 mobile home lots will be without water as a result of water
service line breakages or repairs with the park.
            5.   Where the water supply is subject to service interruption, the
occupants shall be notified in advance of such interruptions if possible.
            6.   Where the cause of water service interruption occurs within
the park and the interruption exceeds a period of 12 hours, standby or
auxiliary equipment shall be used to provide temporary emergency water supply
for the occupants.
            7.   Water service lines, including valves, riser pipes,
connections and meters shall be installed in compliance with the Colorado
Technical Plumbing Code. Every mobile home lot shall be provided with an
individual water service pipe and a riser pipe in conformance with the Colorado
Technical Plumbing Code. The riser pipe shall extend at least four inches
vertically above ground unless it is shielded by a riser protector and casement
extending above ground and fitted with a lid. The riser shall terminate with
two threaded valve outlets which provide connections for the mobile home water
piping and for a garden hose. The mobile home water outlet shall be securely
capped when a mobile home does not occupy the lot.
            8.   All plumbing fixtures, building sewers and mobile home park
sewers shall be connected to the public sewer system.
            9.   Sewage collection lines shall be laid in trenches of
sufficient depth to be free of breakage from traffic, ground movement or
freezing.
            10.   Sewer lines shall be constructed of approved materials with
adequate vents, water-tight joints and sufficient clean outs.
            11.   Sewers shall be at a grade sufficient to ensure mean velocity
of two feet per second when flowing full. The system shall be designed for a
minimum flow rate of at least 300 gallons per day per mobile home lot.
Horizontal and vertical drainage lines connecting with other horizontal
drainage lines shall enter through 45 degree “y” branches or other combinations
of equivalent sweep. Manholes or clean outs shall be provided at the upper end
of each main sewer line and manholes shall be provided at intersections of two
or more sewer lines, at changes in grade or alignment more than 45 degrees and
at intervals of not more than 400 feet.
            12.   Each mobile home lot shall be provided with a sewer branch
line and a riser pipe at least four inches inside diameter. The branch line
shall be installed with a uniform slope of at least one-fourths inch per linear
foot and shall be properly trapped and vented. The branch line shall terminate
at a riser pipe of at least four inches inside diameter, which extends
vertically at least four inches above ground elevation, or has the ground
graded from the riser pipe rim. When necessary, the riser pipe shall be
protected by a concrete collar four inches thick and 12 inches in diameter.
            13.   The sewer service connection shall be equipped with standard
screw, ring or clamp-type fittings or adapters so that water-tight and tamper-
proof connections can be obtained at the mobile home drain outlet and sewer
riser pipe. The connection shall be of approved semi-rigid, non-collapsible,
corrosion-resistant pipe having a smooth interior surface and an inside
diameter of not less than three inches.
            14.   a.   The sewer service connection shall be installed and
maintained with a uniform grade not less than one-fourths inch per foot and
shall be no longer than necessary to connect the mobile home drain and sewer
riser pipe.
               b.   Mobile homes with drain outlets of less than three inches
inside diameter shall be connected with reducers and screw or clamp-type
fittings.
            15.   When a mobile home does not occupy the mobile home stand, the
sewer riser pipe shall be capped with a water-tight cap or plug.
         (f)   Refuse.
            1.   The storage, collection and disposal of refuse in a mobile
home park shall be so conducted as to control odors, rodents, insects,
accidents, fire hazards, air pollution or other nuisance conditions.
            2.   Durable, washable and non-absorbent metal or plastic
containers with tight-fitting lids shall be provided at each mobile home lot or
at a central storage area conveniently located not more than 200 feet from any
mobile home lot. Refuse containers shall be provided at the rate of at least
one 30-gallon (four cubic feet) container for each mobile home lot or an
equivalent storage capacity in centralized storage facilities.
            3.   The number of containers used and the frequency of collection
shall be sufficient to prevent over-filled containers. Refuse shall be
routinely collected and removed from the premises not less than once weekly.
Refuse shall be disposed of at a lawful disposal site in accordance with local
and state requirements.
         (g)   Insect and rodent control. Rodents and insects shall be
controlled by approved sanitary practices, vermin-proofing of buildings
extermination and other control methods.
         (h)   Water supply.
            1.   The mobile home park shall connect to the town water system.
            2.   Where the public water system is determined to be inadequate,
the proposed mobile home park may either be denied or the net density reduced
to prevent exceeding the system capacity. Private individual water wells shall
not be permitted.
            3.   A minimum of 1,000 gpd (gallons per day) shall be provided for
each mobile home space in the mobile home park for domestic and individual lot
irrigation needs at graduating pressures of not less than 20 nor more than 80
pounds per square inch to all fixtures. The number of mobile home spaces to be
occupied in a mobile home park shall be limited to the quantity of water
available to supply each such mobile home space with the minimum requirements.
            4.   Adequate water supply shall be provided to any additional
structures, such as service building(s), office building and the like, where
such service may be required.
            5.   Provision of irrigation of proposed landscaped areas within
the mobile home park but excluding individual lots shall be made in determining
water needs.
         (I)   Sanitation system.
            1.   Mobile home parks shall be served by the public sewer system
of the town.
            2.   All sewage disposal apparatus, including appurtenances
thereto, shall be provided, maintained and operated so as not to create a
nuisance or health hazard.
            3.   Mobile home drains, sewer stand pipes and connections thereto
shall conform to standards as required by the utility serving the mobile home
park. The mobile home drain shall be water-tight and self-draining. This drain
shall be constructed of smooth plastic pipe or of other material approved by
the state or local plumbing laws or regulations. All sewer lines will contain
devices allowing access and cleaning of said lines at locations separated by no
more than 250 feet.
         (j)   Electrical outlets. An electrical outlet supplying both 110/220
volts capable of providing 100 amperes or more of current shall be provided for
each mobile home space. The installation shall comply with all state and local
electrical regulations.
         (k)   Fire protection. Every mobile home shall be equipped, at all
times, with fire extinguishing equipment in good working order of such type,
size and number and is located within the park as prescribed by the local fire
prevention authority, or to satisfy fire regulations. No mobile home space
shall be located more than 300 feet from a fire hydrant of a quality and design
acceptable to the Manager.
         (l)   Portable utility building stand.
            1.   The entire surface of the utility building stand shall be
covered with crushed rock, gravel or other like material for the purpose of
providing surface water drainage.
            2.   Such stand shall be provided with anchors or tie-downs which,
in the discretion of the Commission, will prevent accidental movement of the
portable utility building.
         (m)   Outdoor recreation area.
            1.   A mobile home park shall provide an amount not less than 20%
of the gross mobile home park area for outdoor recreational area or areas.
            2.   Outdoor recreation areas include, but not by way of
limitation, adult recreation and child play areas and swimming pools, but shall
not include areas devoted to guest parking, utilities, drying yards, a roadway,
mobile home space, storage area nor any area required for setbacks.
            3.   Outdoor recreation areas shall be located in such a manner as
to be free from hazards and topography incompatible with the purposes of the
recreation areas, and shall be conveniently located, where the topography and
traffic of the mobile home park permits.
         (n)   Setbacks. The minimum setback along property lines of a mobile
home park shall be as follows, and no structures, including mobile homes, shall
be erected constructed or located closer to such property lines than the
minimum setback distance, unless otherwise specifically provided:
            1.   Public street or highway rights-of-way, other than four-lane
highways: 100 feet from the centerline of such right-of-way or 30 feet from the
property line, whichever distance is greater;
            2.   Public street or highway rights-of-way having four or more
traffic lines, excluding frontage roads: 130 feet from the center line of such
right-of-way or 75 feet from the property line, whichever distance is greater;
            3.   Private road rights-of-way and easement: 25 feet from the
centerline of such right-of-way or easement or ten feet from the easement
boundary, whichever distance is greater; and
            4.   All other property lines: 20 feet from the property line;
provided that screening fences and shrubs or trees may be erected or located
closer to such property lines than the minimum setback distance.
         (o)   Commercial or business use. No commercial or business use shall
be made of land within a MHP District.
         (p)   Sign. One sign, and only one sign, advertising a mobile home
park and displayed to the general public shall be allowed within boundaries of
the mobile home park or within 1,000 feet of such boundaries. Such
identification sign shall not exceed 40 square feet in area and shall not be of
the neon, flashing-light variety or involve movement.
         (q)   Compaction. The entire area of each mobile home park, excluding
recreational areas, shall contain soil compacted to a field density of 95%.
         (r)   Schools and school sites.
            1.   A mobile home park shall not cause a significant adverse
impact upon existing surrounding school facilities so as to necessitate over-
crowding or double sessions, substantial new equipment or building expenditures
or new school sites.
            2.   If a mobile home park is likely to have a significant adverse
impact upon existing school facilities, the Planning Commission and Board of
Trustees shall consult the school district before recommending approval or
disapproval of the proposed mobile home park.
   (D)   Procedure for application for amendment.
      (1)   Any citizen or group of citizens, firm or corporation residing,
owning or leasing property in the town may apply for an amendment to fix the
boundaries of this MHP District.
      (2)   Such application shall be filed with the Zoning Manager.
      (3)   Within 90 days from the date of filing the application with the
Zoning Manager, the Planning Commission shall examine the application and
recommend to the Board of Trustees the approval or disapproval of the
application.
      (4)   The Board of Trustees, prior to certification, shall then proceed
in conformity with the provisions of the zoning ordinance or resolution
concerning amendment thereof, including notice of hearing requirements and
provisions concerning protest to changes contained in division (E) below.
   (E)   Contents of application for amendment, notice, objections, building
permit.
      (1)   Applications for an amendment shall be made in writing to the
Zoning Manager and shall contain:
         (a)   The name and address of the applicant, and, if the applicant is
a partnership, association or corporation, the names and addresses of all
managers, partners and executives directly responsible for operation in the
town or in the county;
         (b)   An identification of the land to be included in the district to
include:
            1.   The location of the lands by legal subdivision, section,
township, range, county and municipal corporation, if any;
            2.   The name, if any, by which such lands or any part thereof are
known;
            3.   The approximate number of acres to be affected; and
            4.   The nearest town, village or city.
         (c)   A general description of the land which shall include, as nearly
as possible, its vegetation cover, the annual rainfall, the general directions
and average velocities of the winds, endangered species of fish and wildlife,
its past and present uses, its present surface waters and adjudicated water
rights and their immediate drainage areas and uses, and the nature and depth of
the topsoil, subsoil, mineral seams or other deposits of commercially valuable
quantities and any subsurface waters known to exist;
         (d)   A U.S. Geological Survey topographic map, if available, to the
district;
         (e)   1.   A map, in such detail as the Manager may specify, showing
the boundaries of the land to be affected; its surrounding immediate drainage
area; the location and names, where known, of all roads; railroads; public or
private right-of-way and easements; utility lines; lakes; streams; creeks;
springs; and water wells, and the limits of underground mines and surface
mines, whether active or inactive to the land to be affected.
            2.   This map will also show:
               a.   The names, last known addresses and boundary lines of the
present surface landowners and occupants on the adjacent land to be affected;
               b.   The location, ownership and uses of all buildings on, or on
lands adjacent to, the land to be affected; and
               c.   Any political boundaries of special districts on or near
the land to be affected.
         (f)   A site plan which shall be drawn by a registered land surveyor
to a scale of one-inch equals 100 feet, bearing contour lines at vertical
intervals of two feet upon Mylar or linen and shall contain the following
information:
            1.   The legal description of the site, dimensions of the site
perimeter, north point and total land area within the site perimeters;
            2.   The proposed name of the mobile home park;
            3.   The location and width of all streets, alleys or roads
adjacent to or within the site perimeters, together with walks, curbs,
pavements, existing structures, existing utility easements, proposed
recreational and parking areas; the number, size and location of all mobile
home spaces; and proposed utilities such as gas, water, electricity and sewer;
            4.   The size of all proposed or existing water and sewer lines;
            5.   The location and dimensions of all proposed accessory uses and
any other proposed structures;
            6.   The existing zoning district of the site and the existing
zoning district adjacent to the site for a distance of 600 feet from the site
perimeter; and
            7.   The signature of the owner and surveyor as well as the
signature blanks for the signature of the Zoning Manager.
         (g)   Typical street and walk sections;
         (h)   Landscaping plan:
            1.   Incorporated into the plot plan or submitted as a separate
exhibit, there shall be a landscaping plan. In such detail and scope as may be
required by the Planning Commission containing such information that is
required in §
153.043(K), and a surface drainage plan showing the proposed grading contours
within the mobile home park and the location and dimensions of all tile lines,
culverts, catch basins, drain inlets, turf and masonry gutters, all curbs,
drainage disposal and any existing facilities to be used for surface drainage.
The applicant may submit a written statement of the provisions to be made for
surface drainage plan. The landscaping plan and surface drainage plan need not
be prepared by a registered land surveyor; and
            2.   Landscaping plans shall be produced on tracing paper or velum
having outer dimensions of at least 24 inches by 36 inches and drawn to scale
of one inch equals 100 feet and shall contain such information as the
following:
               a.   The outline of mobile home stands, patios, accessory
buildings and other improvements;
               b.   An appropriate landscaping plan; and
               c.   The details of all features pertaining to site
improvements, such as retaining walls, tree walls and other site improvements
details now shown upon other drawings.
         (I)   Connection to the public water supply and sewage system of the
town, and methods to be used for garbage disposal and evidence, satisfactory to
the Board, of the legal, technical and natural sufficiency of such supplies and
methods;
         (j)   Such further information as may be requested by the Board of
Trustees to enable them to determine that the proposed mobile home park will
comply with legal requirements;
         (k)   The developer must file a plat of the mobile home park covering
the location of all existing and proposed utilities and public lands prior to
or at the time of final approval of the mobile home park;
         (l)   A minimum fee as described in the town’s zoning ordinance and
resolution;
         (m)   Such other information as the Zoning Manager deems necessary or
as good faith compliance with the provisions of this chapter require;
         (n)   Description of the source and adequacy of existing fire
protection facilities and an anticipated new facilities;
         (o)   Description of anticipated impact upon surrounding school
facilities and any anticipated facility requirements, including projected
impact upon school classroom and teacher capacity, school transportation
expense and school site necessity;
         (p)   The applicant may have the local conservation district assist in
preparation of, provide data for, perform research, review and comment upon the
reclamation;
         (q)   The applicant shall cause notice of the application to be
published in a newspaper of general circulation in the locality of the proposed
mobile home park once a week for four consecutive weeks commencing with 15 days
after filing of the application. The notice shall contain information regarding
the identity of the applicant, the location of the proposed mobile home park
and the location and final date for filing objections to the application. The
application shall mail a copy of the notice immediately after first publication
to all persons having a legal estate which might be affected by the proposed
operations. Proof of such notice and mailing shall be attached to and become
part of the application;
         (r)   A public hearing shall be held pursuant to the §
153.043(K);
         (s)   1.   The requested amendment shall be granted if it is
established that the application complies with the requirements of this
chapter, division (E) above and all applicable federal and state laws.
            2.   The Board shall not deny an application except for one or more
of the following reasons:
               a.   The application is incomplete;
               b.   The application is not accompanied by the required fee;
               c.   Any part of the proposed use is contrary to this chapter,
this division (E), the law or policy of this state or the United States;
               d.   The proposed mobile home park would irreparably harm,
destroy or materially impair any area that is of a unique and irreplaceable,
historical archeological, scenic, agricultural, recreational or natural value;
and
               e.   The proposed mobile home park endangers the public health
and safety.
         (t)   When, upon review of the application and the plot plan, the
Board shall be satisfied that there is compliance with this chapter, a building
permit for all or a part of the mobile home park, at the determination of the
Board and subject to the terms of §
153.017 and other applicable statutes, ordinances, rules and regulations shall
be issued for the construction of the mobile home park within the MHP District.
Provided, however, the Board may enact such amendment only in part or for a
limited period of time if it shall determine that the purposes of this chapter
would be served by time-phased or temporary rezoning of the proposed district.
   (F)   Deposit of fees and forfeitures.
      (1)   All forfeiture and other monies collected under the provisions of
this chapter shall be deposited with the Town Clerk.
      (2)   All fees shall be deposited with the Town Clerk in the General
Fund.
   (G)   State statutes and regulations. Except where not so strict as this
chapter, all appropriate state statutes and regulations of state agencies are
incorporated herein by this reference as if set out verbatim.
   (H)   Rules and regulations. The Manager may promulgate such rules and
regulations, subject to approval by the Board, as may be necessary and proper
to accomplish the purposes of this chapter.
   (I)   Saving clause. Should any section, clause or provision of this chapter
be declared by a court or competent jurisdiction to be invalid, such decision
shall not affect the validity of this section as a whole or any part thereof,
other than the part so declared invalid.
   (J)   Service lines. All utility service lines, including all telephone
lines, television signal cables and electrical lines within the mobile home
park, shall be installed underground within the town’s specifications for
underground services.
   (K)   Setback requirements.
      (1)   The minimum distance from the line or the corner of any mobile home
stand to street pavement, common parking bay or common walk shall be 25 feet.
      (2)   The minimum distance from the line or corner of any mobile home
stand to a boundary line of the Mobile Home Park Zone District shall be 25
feet.
      (3)   The minimum distance from the line or corner of any mobile home
stand to any permanent building or structure for common use shall be 25 feet.
      (4)   Permanent buildings and structures for common facilities and
dwelling units other than mobile homes shall be setback from the mobile home
park boundaries a minimum distance of 25 feet.
      (5)   The minimum distance from the parking area on the lot to the side
yard lot line shall be ten feet.
      (6)   The setbacks of a mobile home stand on a corner lot shall be a
minimum of 25 feet.
      (7)   The minimum distance to the rear yard lot line shall be 15 feet.
      (8)   The minimum setback for accessory buildings shall be three feet.
   (L)   Common facilities and uses.
      (1)   Not less than 20% of the total land area of the mobile home park
shall be devoted to space for common facilities and uses, such as a laundry,
swimming pool or recreation and play areas.
      (2)   Laundry, recreation rooms, management offices and other common
facilities may be consolidated in a single building if the single location will
adequately service all mobile home units in a mobile home park.
   (M)   Storage.
      (1)   Tenant storage facilities shall be provided for materials which
cannot be conveniently stored in a mobile home. A minimum of 400 cubic feet of
storage space shall be provided for each mobile home unit.
      (2)   Storage facilities may be located adjacent to the mobile homes or
in common compounds within a reasonable distance from the mobile homes. Storage
facilities shall be designed in a manner that will enhance the park and shall
be constructed of suitable weather-resistant materials appropriate under the
use and maintenance contemplated.
   (N)   Landscaping.
      (1)   Lawn and ground cover, which may include aggregates, shall be
provided on all common ground areas except those covered by structures, paved
or surfaced areas and except those undisturbed areas, such as watercourses left
in their natural state.
      (2)   Screen planting and/or fencing at least six feet high shall be
provided where necessary for screening purposes, such as around the mobile home
park boundary lines, refuse collection points, common recreation areas and
playgrounds and at such other points as necessary for screening of
objectionable views.
      (3)   A complete landscaping plan shall be submitted which shall show
existing trees and shrubs which are to be maintained and new trees and shrubs
which are to be planted. The plan shall include the size and type of planting
proposed, their spacing and maintenance provisions.
      (4)   The landscaping on the front and both sides of the residence must
be landscaped within six months of the issuance of the certificate of
occupancy. This will include ground cover and a tree in the front yard.
   (O)   Tie-downs and blocking.
      (1)   Every mobile home and manufactured home in the town shall be
secured against wind damage by blocking and tie-downs.
      (2)   The specifications for blocking, ground anchorage and tie-downs are
detailed in this chapter and shall be considered to be a minimum specification.
   (P)   Blocking.
      (1)   Base.
         (a)   For all mobile homes in a MHPD, all piers shall be placed on
footings of concrete with a minimum dimension of 16 inches by 16 inches by four
inches.
         (b)   For all manufactured homes in all zoning districts except MHPD
with support walls and crawl space, all piers shall be placed on load bearing
pylons of concrete with a minimum dimension of 36 inches deep by 12 inches
diameter/square plus a permanent foundation.
         (c)   Mobile homes in a R-2 District must meet the above requirements
for manufactured homes.
         (d)   For all manufactured homes in a MHPD without support walls and a
crawl space, all piers shall be placed on load bearing pylons of concrete with
a minimum dimension 36 inches deep by 12 inches diameter/square.
      (2)   Piers.
         (a)   All piers shall be one or more eight inches by eight inches by
16 inches celled concrete block.
         (b)   All piers shall be placed over the footings with the long
dimension crossways to the main frame members and centered under them with
cells vertical.
         (c)   Pier heights shall be such that the mobile home will be located
as close to the ground as possible.
      (3)   Spacing.
         (a)   Piers shall be provided under the main frame of the mobile home
at intervals of not more than eight feet.
         (b)   End piers shall be placed no more than five feet from the
extreme ends of the mobile home.
      (4)   Caps. Piers shall be topped with eight inches by 16 inches by four
inches solid concrete.
      (5)   Shims. Hardwood shims shall be driven tightly between the cap and
the main frame member to provide uniform bearing. They shall not be more than
four inches in thickness and of sufficient width to provide bearing.
      (6)   Permanent foundation. Wall construction shall be a minimum of six-
inch block or concrete on a concrete footer for manufactured homes.
   (Q)   Ground anchorage. Each mobile home shall be provided with adequate
ground anchorage. Tie pads or anchors may be used; tie pads being preferred.
      (1)   Tie pads construction: concrete slab on grade over caissons
containing stirrup ties of five-eighths inch deformed reinforcing rod.
      (2)   Steel anchor construction: five-eighths inch by five feet steel
anchors with closed eye driven to maximum depth is approved unless unstable
soil conditions exist, as determined by the Building Inspector.
   (R)   Tie-downs. Each tie-down shall be constructed and installed for each
mobile home as provided below:
 
Length of Mobile Home Required Number of Ground Anchors Required Tie-Down Sets
Up to 50 feet         4                                 2 sets
50 - 70 feet          6                                 3 sets
Over 70 feet          8                                 4 sets
 
      (1)   Tie-down slabs. Number of tie-down slabs of concrete to correspond
to length of mobile home with dimensions to be three foot wide, four foot long,
one foot thick and to be placed level with ground surface.
      (2)   Cables. Cables shall be galvanized or stainless steel one-fourths-
inch diameter or larger (six by nine IWRC wire rope) or three-eighths-inch
diameter or larger (six by seven wire rope).
      (3)   Turnbuckles. Turnbuckles shall be one-half inch galvanized steel or
larger “Eye and Eye” or “Jaw and Eye”. No hook ends or open “eyes” are
permitted. Turnbuckles shall be adjusted to draw the cables for tight
anchorage.
      (4)   Cable (wire rope) ends. Cable (wire rope) ends shall be secured
with at least two U clamps, faces opposed.
      (5)   Tie-down cables. Tie-down cables shall be placed so that they
assume not less than a 45-degree angle from the footing of the piers and at an
approximate right angle to the mobile home.
   (S)   Mobile home or manufactured home subdivisions.
      (1)   Applications for mobile home subdivisions or manufactured home
shall adhere to all applicable requirements above for mobile home parks.
      (2)   In addition, applicants shall also conform to the requirements and
design standards for subdivision. Should requirements under these two sets of
requirements conflict, the stricter of the two shall be applied.
(Ord. 2-98, passed 4-22-1998) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.056 COMMERCIAL AND INDUSTRIAL USE PERFORMANCE STANDARDS.
   (A)   Glare and heat. Any operation producing intense glare or heat shall be
conducted within an enclosed building or with other effective screening in such
a manner as to make such glare or heat completely imperceptible from any point
along the property line.
   (B)   Vibration. Industrial or commercial operation shall cause no inherent
and recurring generated vibration perceptible without instruments at any point
along the property line. Transportation facilities on temporary construction
are excluded from this restriction.
   (C)   Light. Exterior lighting, except for overhead street lighting and
warning, emergency or traffic signals, shall be installed in such a manner that
the light source will be sufficiently obscured to prevent glare on public
streets and walkways or into any residential area. The installation or erection
of any lighting which may be confused with warning, signals, emergency signals
or traffic signals is prohibited.
   (D)   Smoke. All industrial and commercial uses which produce smoke or any
air contaminant shall be subject to the jurisdiction and regulations of the
State Air Quality Control Commission and the State Air Quality Control
Division. The town reserves the right, prior to approving any industrial or
commercial application under this title, to require from the applicant evidence
of compliance with applicable regulations of state government.
   (E)   Odors. No industrial or commercial use shall cause or allow the
emission of malodorous air contaminants from any single source such as to
result in detectible odors which are apparent outside the property boundaries.
   (F)   Noise. All industrial and commercial uses shall be conducted such that
noise generated from such uses is controlled at its source or so attenuated by
the structure from which it radiates that it does not become objectionable
outside its property lines.
   (G)   Fugitive dust. No industrial or commercial operation shall be allowed
to produce fugitive dust in amounts which are noticeable or appreciable outside
of the property boundaries of the use.
   (H)   Electromagnetic, electrical interface. No commercial or industrial
equipment shall be operated in such a manner as to adversely affect the
operation of any off-premises electrical, radio or television equipment.
   (I)   Industrial and commercial wastes. All industrial and commercial
operations shall confine liquid and solid wastes produced in connection with
such operation within the property boundaries, and shall further ensure that no
such waste, including liquid waste such as drain oil, leave the property or
enter any natural stream courses. This shall not apply to the appropriate and
proper disposal of liquid and solid wastes.
(Ord. 2-98, passed 4-22-1998) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.057 HOME OCCUPATIONS.
   A home occupation shall be allowed as a permitted accessory use; provided
that the following conditions are met.
   (A)   (1)   The use must be conducted entirely within a dwelling and may
employ a maximum of one person other than those members of the immediate family
residing on the premises.
      (2)   For the purposes of this section, a dwelling unit may include
attached garages and attached accessory buildings.
   (B)   The use must be clearly incidental and secondary to the use of the
dwelling for dwelling purposes and must not change the residential character
thereof.
   (C)   (1)   The total area used for home occupation uses shall not exceed
25% of the total floor area within a dwelling unit.
      (2)   The area used for the home occupation shall be considered to
include all storage areas and work space clearly utilized or essential in the
operation of the home occupation.
   (D)   There shall be no change in the outside appearance of the building or
premises or other visible evidence of the conduct of such home occupation,
including advertising signs or displays or advertising that solicits or directs
persons to the address.
   (E)   There must be no exterior storage on the premises of material or
equipment used as a part of the home occupation, unless it is enclosed and lot
coverage requirements for accessory uses are met.
   (F)   No equipment or process shall be used in such home occupation which
creates any glare, fumes, odors or other objectionable conditions detectable to
the normal senses off the lot, if the occupation is conducted in a single-
family dwelling, or outside the dwelling unit if conducted in other than a
single-family dwelling.
   (G)   No traffic shall be generated by such home occupation in greater
volumes than that generated by a single-family use in a residential
neighborhood, and any need for parking generated by the conduct of the home
occupation shall be met off the street and not in a required yard adjacent to a
street.
   (H)   Under no circumstances shall any of the following be considered a home
occupation: medical clinic, mortuary, nursing home, restaurant and
veterinarian’s clinic.
   (I)   (1)   Each home occupation shall annually register with the Town
Clerk, which registration shall include a review of compliance with the home
occupation standards contained in this chapter.
      (2)   The person seeking to register said home occupation shall grant the
town reasonable access to the location of the home occupation for the purpose
of verifying compliance with this chapter, as may be required by the town.
(Ord. 2-98, passed 4-22-1998) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.058 RENTING OF ROOMS.
   The renting of rooms to one or two persons, not members of the family
residing in the same dwelling unit, may be permitted as an accessory use;
provided that the following conditions are met.
   (A)   The total number of unrelated persons, including roomers, in any
dwelling unit must not exceed three.
   (B)   The dwelling unit must have only one electric meter.
   (C)   Where the renting of rooms is to two roomers, at least one off-street
parking space must be provided, in addition to the number of spaces required by
this chapter.
   (D)   All roomers shall use the main kitchen facilities of the dwelling
unit. No separate kitchen facilities are allowed.
   (E)   Renting of rooms shall be allowed as an accessory use in the principal
building on a lot only, with no renting of rooms allowed in accessory
buildings.
(Ord. 2-98, passed 4-22-1998) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.059 FENCES, HEDGES, TREES AND WALLS.
   Fences, hedges and walls may be permitted in the required yard areas of any
district subject to the following conditions and requirements.
   (A)   All fences and walls are subject to the applicable sections of the
Building Code.
   (B)   No fence, hedge or wall may extend beyond or across a property line
unless with the joint agreement of the abutting property owners. It shall be
the responsibility of the property owner to locate all property lines.
   (C)   No fence, hedge or wall shall be placed outside of the property
boundary lines or nearer than 12 inches from a public sidewalk.
   (D)   No barbed wire, sharp-pointed or electrically charged fence shall be
permitted, with the exception of the ER and RR zones and that in the industrial
zones only, up to three strands of barbed wire may be attached to the top of a
minimum six foot high fence, for security purposes.
   (E)   Fences, hedges or walls shall not exceed six feet six inches in height
except in the Industrial Districts. The height shall be measured at the
finished grade on the side of the fence nearest the street, alley or abutting
property. A property owner desiring to install a fence taller than six feet six
inches may apply for a variance pursuant to §
153.043(L).
   (F)   Fences located within the required front yard setback shall not exceed
four feet in height. In addition, on corner lots, any obstruction of any nature
whatsoever over 30 inches in height shall not be allowed within the height
triangle established for the adjacent intersection except for trees with
branches and foliage removed to a height of seven feet above the ground and
open wire fencing that does not obscure more than 10%.
   (G)   All trees shall be planted in accordance with
Chapter 154.
   (H)   Barbed wire fences along public streets are prohibited.
   (I)   No person shall construct or maintain, or cause to be constructed or
maintained, any barbed wire fence upon or along any public street or upon or
along any boundary line of any such street or in any manner next to any such
street for the purpose of enclosing any private grounds or premises or public
ground or for nay other purpose whatever, except in the ER and RR zones.
   (J)   No fence shall be constructed out of T-posts or other farm posts
except in the ER, RR and Conservation Districts.
   (K)   The use of chicken wire, wafer, particle board, plywood, metal
sheeting, corrugated metal, roofing metal and plastic mesh as fencing material
is prohibited, except in construction with a construction project where a
temporary fence permit may be issued by the Zoning Manager for the safety and
protection of the public.
   (L)   Fences that are constructed to protect vital public facilities, such
as water treatment plants, water storage and water works, may be exempt from
this section by the authority of the Zoning Manager.
   (M)   All fences shall be constructed in a professional, quality workmanlike
manner. The Town Manager is hereby authorized to set minimum standards for
construction and materials will be a condition of the building permit.
   (N)   (1)   In case such fence shall have been constructed before, and be in
existence at the time of the passage of this chapter, the owner of said fence
shall not be liable until notice is given or served by the town.
      (2)   Such notice may be oral or written and may be given or served by
the Manager or any police officer of the town. Said notice shall notify the
person served, or the person to whom the notice shall be given, to remove such
fence and thereby abate the nuisance.
      (3)   Such notice, when written, shall be signed by the Manager or any
police officer of the town.
      (4)   Such notice shall direct that the fence be removed with 30 days,
but this provision shall not be deemed to apply in the case of a person
constructing or causing to be constructed any such fence after the taking
effect of this chapter and under the requirements of this chapter.
(Ord. 2-98, passed 4-22-1998; Ord. 20-2016, passed 10-26-2016) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.060 OFF-STREET PARKING AND LOADING.
   (A)   Off-street parking spaces are required.
   (B)   (1)   The following numbers of off-street parking spaces shall be
provided with the construction of or addition to any of the buildings and uses
listed below.
      (2)   The Zoning Manager may also consider the availability of on-street
parking when determining the requirements.
Parking Space Requirements
Use Parking Requirements
Parking Space Requirements
Use          Parking Requirements
All Residential Units:
Efficiency   1.5 spaces per unit
or 1-bedroom
2-bedroom    2 spaces per unit
3-bedroom    2 spaces per unit
4 or more    2 spaces per unit
bedrooms
Additional
requirements
for
multiple-
family
residential  0.25 spaces for each unit
and mobile
home parks
with 6 or
more units
(guest
parking)
Multiple-
family
housing for  0.5 spaces per unit
the elderly
or for the
handicapped
Motel or     1 space per unit, plus 2 spaces for the owner’s or manager’s unit
hotel
Temporary    1.5 spaces per unit, plus 2 spaces for the owner’s or manager’s
multi-family unit
or lodge
Nursing
home, rest   1 space per 4 beds, plus 1 space for every 2 employees
homes
Nonresidential Uses:
Drive-in or  1 space for every 2 seats or 1 space for every 100 square foot of
fast food    floor area, whichever is greater, plus 1 space for every employee
restaurant   on the largest work shift
Animal       1 space for every 300 square feet of floor area
hospitals
Hospitals    1 space for every 2 beds, plus 1 space for each staff doctor and
             employee on the largest work shift
Motor
vehicle      1 space for every 500 square feet of floor area
sales
Motor
vehicle      1 space for every 300 square feet of floor area
service and
repair
Business and
professional 1 space for every 250 square feet of floor area
offices
Medical,
dental       1 space for every 200 square feet of floor area
offices and
clinics
Indoor       1 space for every 3 seats or 1 space for every 200
restaurants  square feet of floor area, whichever is greater
and bars
Retail
business,
except
furniture    1 space for every 300 square feet of floor area
stores and
appliance
stores
Furniture
stores,      1 space for every 500 square feet of floor area
appliance
stores
Wholesale    1 space for every 1,000 square feet of floor area or 1 space for
business and every 2 employees, whichever is greater
warehouse
Nonresidential Uses:
Industrial
uses
(excluding
offices) not
mentioned    1 space for every 500 square feet or 0.75 spaces for every 1
specifically employee, whichever is greater
under
another use
in this
section
Places of
public
assembly,
such as      1 space for every 4 seats in the principal place of assembly
churches,
auditoriums,
meeting
rooms
Libraries    1 space for every 400 square feet of floor area, plus 1 for every 2
             employees
Educational Facilities:
Use          Parking Requirements
Preschool
nurseries or
childcare
centers,
kindergarten 1 space per classroom, plus 1 space per employee
and
elementary
schools and
middle
schools
             1 space per employee, plus 1 space for every 4 students, plus 1
High schools space for every four seats on the principal place of assembly
             (bench capacity is determined as 1 seat per 20 inches)
Recreational 1 space for every 500 square feet of recreational area
facilities
Note: when determining the number of parking spaces to be required, fractions of
spaces shall be rounded to the nearest whole number with 0.5 space being rounded
up to 1 space. For example, if the calculation of parking spaces equals 27.25
spaces, then 27 spaces would be required. If the calculation equals 27.5 spaces,
then 28 spaces would be required.
 
   (C)   Combination of uses.
      (1)   When one building is planned to include a combination of different
uses, the minimum parking required width be determined by applying the above
requirements based upon the floor area for each use.
      (2)   The maximum number of parking spaces required for the building
shall be the sum of the requirements for each separate use. Under special
circumstances, parking requirements may be reduced following reduction
standards for combinations of uses.
      (3)   Applicants must fully document any requests for parking reductions.
   (D)   Uses not listed. For specific uses not listed, the Planning Commission
shall determine the appropriate number of parking spaces required based upon
the type of activity, intensity, number of employees and similarity to listed
uses.
   (E)   Off-site parking. For any commercial or business use, the off-street
parking requirements may also be met utilizing the following alternatives, if
applicable.
      (1)   Off-street parking spaces may be provided on a site within 300 feet
of the use that generates the parking requirements; provided that the site is
owned or under the control of the owner of the parking generator.
      (2)   The owner of the use may participate in a parking district or joint
venture that assures the town that the off-street parking requirements will be
met. All parking districts or joint ventures shall be subject to the approval
of the town.
   (F)   Parking area standards.
      (1)   All off-street parking areas shall be unobstructed and free of all
other uses.
      (2)   All off-street parking spaces shall have unobstructed access to and
from a street.
      (3)   (a)   All off-street parking areas, except those for single-family
or two-family dwellings, shall be surfaced with asphalt or concrete.
         (b)   Other dustless surfaces such as washed road base with a chemical
dust suppressant may be approved by the Board of Trustees for parking areas in
the Industrial District, based on type of use, location and impact to adjoining
properties.
      (4)   Off-street parking areas with six or more spaces shall be
adequately screened from any adjoining residentially zoned lot by landscaping
or solid fencing.
      (5)   Lighting from any parking area shall not be directed toward any
adjacent residential area or public street.
      (6)   Off-street parking areas may be located to jointly serve two or
more buildings or uses; provided that the total number of spaces is not less
than that required for the total combined number of buildings or uses. However,
this number may be reduced based on the results of a shared parking demand
analysis based on recognized standards and methodologies.
      (7)   (a)   Off-street parking spaces shall be at least nine feet by 19
feet, except that up to 20% of the required spaces in a parking area with ten
or more spaces may be designated for compact cars with a minimum space of eight
feet by 16 feet.
         (b)   If compact spaces are approved, designated areas shall be
clearly marked by above-grade signage for small or compact cars only.
      (8)   Where off-street parking areas designed for parallel parking are
established, the dimensions of such spaces shall be not less than 22 feet by
nine feet.
      (9)   No more than 12 parking spaces shall be permitted in a contiguous
row without being interrupted by a landscaped area of at least six feet wide
and 16 feet long, or unless otherwise stated in the design policies of the
town.
      (10)   In multiple-family areas, areas included in driveways or otherwise
required to move cars in and out of parking spaces shall not be considered to
meet off-street parking requirements.
      (11)    Minimum width of traffic aisles:
         (a)   Schedule:
Traffic Aisles Schedules
Stall Angle Direction of Traffic Minimum Area Width
                                 Feet Inches
Traffic Aisles Schedules
Stall Angle Direction of Traffic Minimum Area Width
                                 Feet Inches
0 parallel  One-way traffic      12   0
0 parallel  Two-way traffic      24   0
30          One-way traffic      12   0
30          Two-way traffic      No angle parking permitted
45          One-way traffic      14   0
45          Two-way traffic      No angle parking permitted
60          One-way traffic      18   0
60          Two-way traffic      No angle parking permitted
90          One-way traffic      22   0
90          Two-way traffic      24   0
 
         (b)   All off-street parking areas shall be served with paved ingress/
egress having minimum width of 12 feet for one-way traffic and 20 feet for two-
way traffic.
   (G)   Off-street loading areas. For all business and industrial uses, off-
street loading spaces containing 500 square feet, with no dimension less than
ten feet, shall be required for new construction or major additions involving
an increase in floor area as follows:
      (1)   New floor area between 5,000 and 20,000 square feet: one off-street
loading space; and
      (2)   New floor area in excess of 20,000 square feet: one off-street
loading space for each 20,000 square feet or fraction thereof.
(Ord. 2-98, passed 4-22-1998) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.061 STREETS, SIDEWALKS AND BICYCLE LANES.
   (A)   Street plan.
      (1)   The arrangements, classification, extent, width, grade and location
of all streets shall conform to the street plan of the town and shall be
designed in relation to existing and planned streets, topographical conditions,
public convenience and safety and the proposed uses of the land to be served by
such streets and the town’s drainage study.
      (2)   All classifications streets shall be paved, shall be curbed and
guttered and shall be constructed to town specifications.
   (B)   Street classification.
   (C)   Public use streets. In all new developments and subdivisions, streets
that are dedicated to public use shall be classified as provided below, as
provided in the roadway design criteria of the town:
      (1)   The classification shall be based upon the projected volume of
traffic to be carried by the street, stated in terms of the number of trips per
day;
      (2)   The number of dwelling units to be served by the street may be used
as a useful indicator of the number of trips but is not conclusive; and
      (3)   Whenever a subdivision street continues an existing street that
formerly terminated outside the subdivision or is expected to be continued
beyond the subdivision at some future time, the classification of the street
will be based upon the street in its entirety, both within and outside of the
subdivision.
   (D)   Classification of streets. The classification of streets shall be as
follows:
      (1)   Local. A street which provides direct access to adjacent property,
including residential uses. Local streets typically are designed to discourage
through traffic from neighborhoods;
      (2)   Collector. A street which permits relatively unimpeded traffic
movement, collects traffic from the local system and where traffic demands are
relatively high, but where a higher classification street is not warranted. No
back-out drives are permitted;
      (3)   Arterial. A street with signals at important intersections and stop
signs on the side streets, and which collects and distributes traffic to and
from collector streets. Arterials can act as boundaries between neighborhood
areas or different land uses; and
      (4)   Freeway. Completely controlled access highways designed to provide
interstate or intercity traffic flow, with grade separations at intersections.
No private access.
   (E)   Access to lots. Every lot shall have access to a public road or street
that is sufficient to afford a reasonable means of ingress and egress for
emergency vehicles as well as for all those likely to need or desire access to
the property in its intended use.
   (F)   Access to arterial streets. Whenever a development that involves the
creation of one or more new streets borders on or contains an existing or
proposed arterial street, no direct driveway access may be provided from the
lots within this development onto this street.
   (G)   Entrances to streets. All driveway entrances and other openings onto
streets within the town’s planning jurisdiction shall be constructed so that:
      (1)   Vehicles can enter and exit from the lot in question without posing
any substantial danger to themselves, pedestrians or vehicles traveling in
abutting streets;
      (2)   Interference with the free and convenient flow of traffic in
abutting or surrounding streets is minimized; and
      (3)   If driveway entrances and other openings onto streets are
constructed in accordance with the specifications and requirements of the town,
if these exist, or the relevant special district, this shall be deemed prima
facie evidence of compliance with the standard set forth in this chapter.
   (H)   Coordination with surrounding streets.
      (1)   The street system of a development or subdivision shall be
coordinated with existing, proposed and anticipated streets outside it or
outside the portion of a single tract that is being divided into lots
(hereinafter, “surrounding streets”) as provided in this section.
      (2)   Collector and arterial streets shall intersect with surrounding
collector or arterial streets at safe and convenient locations.
      (3)   Local and minor residential streets shall connect with surrounding
streets where necessary to permit the convenient movement of traffic between
residential neighborhoods or to facilitate access to neighborhoods by emergency
service vehicles or for other sufficient reasons, but connections shall not be
permitted where the effect would be to encourage the use of such streets by
substantial through traffic.
      (4)   (a)   Whenever connections to anticipated or proposed surrounding
streets are required by this section, the street right-of-way shall be extended
and the street developed to the property line of the subdivided property (or to
the edge of the remaining undeveloped portion of a single tract) at the point
where the connection to the anticipated or proposed street is expected.
         (b)   In addition, the town may require temporary turnarounds to be
constructed at the end of such streets pending their extension when such
turnarounds appear necessary to facilitate the flow of traffic or accommodate
emergency vehicles. Notwithstanding the other provisions of this division (H),
no temporary dead-end street in excess of 1,000 feet may be created unless no
other practicable alternative is available.
   (I)   Relationship of streets to topography.
      (1)   Streets shall be related appropriately to the topography. In
particular, streets shall be designed to facilitate the drainage and storm
water runoff objectives set forth in this chapter, and street grades shall
conform as closely as practicable to the original topography.
      (2)   Permissible roadway and intersection grades shall be as specified
in the town roadway design criteria or other documents as approved by the town.
   (J)   Wheelchair ramps. Whenever curb and gutter construction is used on
public or private streets, wheelchair ramps for the handicapped shall be
provided at intersections and other major points of pedestrian flow. Wheelchair
ramps and depressed curbs shall be constructed in accordance with standards of
the town or appropriate special districts.
   (K)   Street names.
      (1)   Street names shall be assigned by the developer subject to the
approval of the town. Proposed streets that are obviously in alignment with
existing streets shall be given the same name. Newly created streets shall be
given names that neither duplicate nor are phonetically similar to existing
streets within the town’s planning jurisdiction, regardless of the use of
different suffixes.
      (2)   Street names shall include a suffix such as the following:
         (a)   Cul-de-sacs: Way, Court or Lane;
         (b)   Short streets: Way, Place or Lane;
         (c)   Streets: Street, Parkway, Avenue or Drive; and
         (d)   Circular streets (both loops and at same street): Circle.
      (3)   Building numbers shall be assigned and/or approved by the town.
   (L)   Sidewalks.
      (1)   On streets other than local or minor collectors, landscaped parking
strips of the following minimum widths must separate sidewalks from street flow
line (and edge):
 
Street Type Parking Strip Width (Minimum)
Collector   6 feet
Arterial    12 feet
 
      (2)   The sidewalks required by this section shall be at least four feet
in width and constructed according to the specifications of the town if these
exist, or of the relevant special district, except that the town may permit the
installation of walkways constructed with other suitable materials when it
concludes that:
         (a)   Such walkways would serve the residents of the development as
adequately as concrete sidewalks; and
         (b)   Such walkways would be more environmentally desirable or more in
keeping with the overall design of the development.
      (3)   Whenever the town finds that a means of pedestrian access is
necessary from the subdivision to schools, parks, playgrounds or other roads or
facilities and that such access is not conveniently provided by sidewalks
adjacent to the streets, the developer may be required to reserve an
unobstructed easement of at least ten feet in width to provide such access.
   (M)   Bicycle lanes.
      (1)   Where trails or bike ways are shown on the town open space and
parks plan as crossing a parcel proposed for development, the developer shall
work with the town to establish an alignment through the parcel and dedicate
this alignment to the town. In general, the width for trail or bike way
dedication shall be 30 feet if not associated with a street. Areas dedicated
for trails or bikeways may be included in the open space requirements of the
development.
      (2)   Where on-street bicycle lanes are shown on the town circulation and
transportation plan, an additional eight feet of street width and right-of-way
shall be added to the street to accommodate the bicycle lane.
      (3)   Off-street bikeways should have right-of-way reserved and dedicated
per this section.
   (N)   Blocks and lots.
      (1)   Blocks shall not exceed 1,320 feet in length nor be less than 360
feet in length, unless no practicable alternative is available. The length of
blocks shall be considered to be the distance from street centerline to
opposite street centerline and shall be measured through adjacent back lot
lines or through the center of the block. The total design should provide for
convenient access and circulation for emergency vehicles. All blocks shall be
abutted by a street or streets. Pedestrian walkways shall be provided to permit
acceptable pedestrian access to abutting streets.
      (2)   Service access to the interior of blocks may be permitted in
certain instances, in which case such alleys must be indicated in the plan and
plat.
      (3)   Lot standards.
         (a)   Division of lots. No lot shall be divided by a municipal or
county boundary line, road, alley or other lot.
         (b)   Wedge-shaped lots. In the case of wedge-shaped lots, no lot
shall be less than 20 feet in width where the narrow side of the lot is at the
front property line.
         (c)   Lot lines. Side lot lines shall be substantially at right angles
or radial to street lines. Where lot lines are not at right angles to the
street lines, this shall be indicated.
         (d)   Corner lots. Corner lots in all subdivisions are required to
have the minimum front yard requirements, as required by the zone district,
facing both streets.
(Ord. 2-98, passed 4-22-1998) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.062 FIRE HYDRANTS.
   (A)   Every development served by a central water system shall include a
system of fire hydrants sufficient to provide adequate fire protection for the
buildings located or intended to be located within such development.
   (B)   The presumption established by this chapter is that, to satisfy the
standard set forth in this chapter, fire hydrants must be located so that all
parts of every building within the development may be served from a hydrant by
laying not more than 500 feet of hose connected to such hydrant.
   (C)   (1)   The Town Manager shall determine the precise location of all
fire hydrants, subject to the other provisions of this section.
      (2)   In general, fire hydrants shall be placed six feet behind the curb
line of publicly dedicated streets that have curb and gutter. Input will be
sought from the fire district.
   (D)   (1)   The fire district shall determine the design standards of all
hydrants based on fire flow needs.
      (2)   Unless otherwise specified by the fire district, all hydrants shall
have two two and one-half inch hose connections and one four and one-half inch
hose connections.
      (3)   The two and one-half inch hose connections shall be located at
least 21 and one- half from the ground level. All hydrant threads shall be
national standard threads.
   (E)   Water lines that serve hydrants shall be at least six-inch lines, and,
unless no other practicable alternative is available, no such lines shall be
dead-end lines.
(Ord. 2-98, passed 4-22-1998) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.063 SITES FOR SCREENING OF DUMPSTERS.
   (A)   Every development that is required to provide one or more dumpsters
for solid waste collection shall provide sites for such dumpsters that are:
      (1)   Located so as to facilitate collection and minimize any negative
impact on persons occupying the development site, neighboring properties or
public rights-of-way; and
      (2)   Constructed to allow for collection without damage to the
development site or the collection vehicle.
   (B)   All such dumpsters shall be screened to prevent them from being
visible to:
      (1)   Persons located within any dwelling unit on residential property
other than that where the dumpster is located;
      (2)   Occupants, customers or other invited persons located within any
building on nonresidential property other than that where the dumpster is
located, unless such property is used primarily for purposes permitted
exclusively in an MHPD zoning district; and
      (3)   Persons traveling on any public street, sidewalk or other public
way.
(Ord. 2-98, passed 4-22-1998) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.064 DRAINAGE.
   All grading, road improvements and other activity affecting the drainage of
storm water in the town shall be done in conformity with the plans, standards
and design criteria specified in the “Storm Drainage Master Plan, Town of
Wiggins” (prepared by ARIX Corporation with Foxfire Community Planning and
Development, March, 1991).
(Ord. 2-98, passed 4-22-1998) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.065 BUILDING CODE.
   The Town Building Code shall adhere to U.B.C. Standards.
(Ord. 2-98, passed 4-22-1998) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.066 SIGN CODE.
   Restrictions: no private or personal signs will be attached to public
property. See §
153.180.
(Ord. 2-98, passed 4-22-1998) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.067 UTILITIES.
   (A)   All water and sewer service within the town will be connected to the
town’s water and sewer systems. Natural gas will be provided by public service
and electricity will be provided by Morgan Country Rural Electric Association.
   (B)   No permanent propane bottles will be allowed. Only bottles 100 pounds
or less being used for temporary portable cooking or heating are allowed.
(Ord. 2-98, passed 4-22-1998) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.068 TREES.
   Refer to
Chapter 154.
(Ord. 2-98, passed 4-22-1998) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.069 LANDSCAPING.
   The landscaping on all new construction will include ground cover on the
front and side yards and a tree in the front yard.
   (A)   This will be completed within six months of issuance of certificate of
occupancy.
   (B)   All new construction shall use all practical conservation methods to
prevent and control the escape of dirt/dust by natural causes, i.e., wind and
water erosion from one lot or parcel onto other lots or parcels within the
town.
(Ord. 2-98, passed 4-22-1998; Ord. 02-2019, passed 3-27-2019) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.070 MAJOR ACTIVITY NOTICE.
   (A)   When a subdivision or commercial or industrial activity is proposed
within the town, which will cover five acres or more, the Board of Trustees
shall send notice to the State Land Use Commission, the State Geologist and the
Board of County Commissioners, prior to the approval of any zoning change,
subdivision, special review use permit or building permit application.
   (B)   Such notice shall be on the standard form prescribed by the State Land
Use Commission.
(Ord. 2-98, passed 4-22-1998)
SITE PLANS
§ 153.085 SITE PLANS.
   A site plan is a detailed development plan for a property, which generally
permits an evaluation of the intended use, and such design elements as
circulation, parking and access; open space and landscaping; building location
and configuration; grading and drainage; setbacks and screening; public
improvements; and other elements, which determine if the proposal has been
planned consistently with the intent of this chapter.
   (A)   Required; review and approval.
      (1)   When required. A site plan shall be submitted with any application
for a building permit, except that this requirement shall not apply to any
interior remodeling of a structure.
      (2)   Site plan/architectural review/approval.
         (a)   1.   The review and approval of site plans shall be done by the
Town Manager, except the Town Board shall review all projects for six-plex
residential structures and larger and all new commercial and industrial
buildings that are larger than 10,000 square feet.
            2.   The Town Manager may refer unusual or unique architectural
features on projects to the Board of Trustees for review and approval at any
time. Notice and referral provisions of this chapter shall not apply unless the
site plan review is combined with an application requiring such review and
approval.
         (b)   If a site plan is denied by the Town Manager, the applicant may
appeal the Town Manager’s decision by filing a written notice of appeal with
the Town Clerk within 15 days of the Town Manager’s decision. The notice shall
state the basis for the appeal and shall be considered by the Board of Trustees
at a public meeting.
   (B)   Submission requirements. Submission requirements for the site plans
are contained in §
153.179.
   (C)   Site plan/architectural review criteria. The following criteria shall
be used in the review of all site plans:
      (1)   The scale is appropriate to the site and function of the project
and/or building;
      (2)   The architecture promotes a harmonious transition in scale and
character of the proposed building to surrounding land uses;
      (3)   The quality and design is compatible with the location and proposed
use as demonstrated by building elevations;
      (4)   Any diverse architectural treatments are integrated in order to
avoid a cluttered appearance;
      (5)   The landscape design has been incorporated into the plan and takes
into consideration the function and use of open space and buffering;
      (6)   The overall landscaping treatment of exterior spaces enhances the
quality of the project and creates usable open space;
      (7)   The circulation system, including parking lots, contributes to
orderly and aesthetic quality of the site;
      (8)   The screening of service yards, rooftop mechanical equipment and
other items which tend to be unsightly has been accomplished through the
placement of walls, fences, plantings or a combination thereof; further, the
screening is effective during all calendar months of the year;
      (9)   The monotony of design in a single or multiple building project has
been avoided. Variation of detail, form and siding that provides visual
interest shall be included;
      (10)   (a)   1.   The building materials are suitable to the type of
building and design for which they are to be used.
            2.   The building exteriors have the same material or those which
contrast in a pleasing way for how they are to be used.
         (b)   The building exteriors have the same materials, or they contrast
in pleasing ways as to be architecturally harmonious;
      (11)   The materials selected are of a durable quality and offer
protection from rot and/or corrosion through the use of acceptable maintenance
procedures;
      (12)   Any design in which the structural frame is exposed to view, the
structural materials are durable and compatible within themselves and
harmonious to the surroundings;
      (13)   Building articulation and roof lines are varied by the use of
architectural and site design;
      (14)   Building components such as windows, doors, eaves and parapets are
visually attractive in proportion, scale and relationship to one another in
each building;
      (15)   The colors, including accents, are harmonious and compatible with
the building;
      (16)   The buffering materials used to buffer mechanical equipment,
electrical equipment or other utility hardware on the roof, ground or building
are harmonious with the building;
      (17)   Exterior lighting, which is part of the architectural concept, is
harmonious with the building design; and
      (18)   Refuse and waste removal areas, service yards and exterior work
areas are buffered from view with the use of materials that are harmonious to
the building.
(Ord. 2-98, passed 4-22-1998; Ord. 14-2017, passed 10-11-2017) Penalty, see §
153.999
SUBDIVISIONS
§ 153.100 PRE-APPLICATION CONFERENCE.
   (A)   Prior to submitting a formal application, applicants shall confer with
the Administrator or the Administrator’s representative in order to obtain
information and guidance.
   (B)   The purpose of such a conference is to familiarize the applicant with
the town’s requirements, procedures and comprehensive plan prior to substantial
commitments of time and money toward the preparation of plans, surveys and
other studies.
(Ord. 2-98, passed 4-22-1998)
§ 153.101 FILING DEADLINES AND APPLICATIONS.
   (A)   (1)   Unless otherwise specified and agreed to by the Administrator,
applications shall be filed with the Planning Department at least 30 days prior
to the date of hearing by the Planning Commission or Town Board.
      (2)   Reviews subject to the approval of the Administrator shall be
submitted at least 15 days prior to the requested date for a decision.
   (B)   (1)   Only complete applications shall be accepted as meeting the
above deadlines; partial or incomplete applications shall be accepted, but will
not be scheduled for review and hearings until all required elements of the
application package have been received by the Planning Department.
      (2)   An application shall be considered complete for processing by the
Administrator or designated representative if it includes information
sufficient to meet the requirements of the specific application.
   (C)   Nothing in this regulation shall prevent the Administrator, his or her
representative, the Planning Commission or the Town Board from requesting
additional information in the course of the review if it is deemed necessary to
determine compliance with the requirements of this chapter or any other
regulation governing the application.
(Ord. 2-98, passed 4-22-1998)
§ 153.102 SKETCH PLAN.
   (A)   Purpose.
      (1)   The purpose of the sketch plan is to allow a review of the concept
for development and the overall feasibility of the project.
      (2)   The review at this stage also allows the staff and Planning and
Zoning Commission to judge the level of appropriateness of the proposed use, as
well as identify potential problems which must be resolved prior to final
approval of the plan. Submission requirements for sketch plans are found in §
153.178.
   (B)   Review procedure.
      (1)   Zoning Administrator and staff review.
         (a)   1.   All applications shall be referred to the Planning and
Zoning Commission by the Zoning Administrator.
            2.   Copies of proposed plans may be sent to other agencies and
utility companies for comment. Within 15 days following the filing deadline,
the Zoning Administrator and staff shall meet to review the application and
compile written comments and recommendations to the Planning and Zoning
Commission.
         (b)   If the comments and recommendations reveal that the application
has deficiencies which require significant additional work or further
discussion between the Zoning Administrator and the applicant, the
Administrator may defer sending the matter to the Planning and Zoning
Commission until the outstanding issues have been addressed adequately by the
applicant.
      (2)   Planning and Zoning Commission.
         (a)   At the next regular meeting following the filing date for
applications, the Planning and Zoning Commission shall consider the sketch plan
and the comments and recommendations of the Zoning Administrator pertaining to
the application.
         (b)   The Planning and Zoning Commission, using criteria established
elsewhere in this regulation, the comprehensive plan and the town ordinances,
shall approve the application, grant approval with modifications or deny the
application.
      (3)   Appeal to Town Board. Decisions of the Planning and Zoning
Commission may be appealed to the Board of Trustees. A written appeal of any
action by the Planning and Zoning Commission shall be filed within 14 calendar
days following the Planning and Zoning Commission decision.
      (4)   Town Board action on sketch plan.
         (a)   Appeals to the Town Board. Decisions of the Planning and Zoning
Commission appealed to the Town Board shall be heard after giving ten-day
written notice to the applicant at a regularly scheduled meeting. The Town
Board shall, using criteria established elsewhere in this regulation, the
comprehensive plan and the town ordinances, approve the application, grant
approval with modifications or deny the application.
         (b)   Town Board Review. The Town Board may call up for review any
sketch plan acted upon by the Planning and Zoning Commission. Notice of such
review must be requested in writing from three or more Board members, or a
majority decision of the Board members at a regularly scheduled Board meeting
within 14 days following the Planning and Zoning Commission decision.
         (c)   Approval. Approval of the sketch plan does not bind the Planning
and Zoning Commission or Town Board to accept the preliminary plan or final
plat.
(Ord. 2-98, passed 4-22-1998; Ord. 14-2017, passed 10-11-2017; Ord. 09-2021,
passed 10-27-2021)
§ 153.103 PRELIMINARY PLAN.
   (A)   Purpose.
      (1)   The purpose of the preliminary plan is to allow a full review of
all technical aspects of the subdivision.
      (2)   Submission requirements for preliminary plans are found in §
153.178.
   (B)   Review procedure.
      (1)   Zoning Administrator and staff review.
         (a)   All applications shall be referred to the Planning and Zoning
Commission by the Zoning Administrator. Copies of proposed plans may be sent to
other agencies and utility companies for comment. Within 15 days following the
filing deadline, the Zoning Administrator and staff shall meet to review the
application and compile written comments and recommendations to the Planning
and Zoning Commission.
         (b)   If the comments and recommendations reveal that the application
has deficiencies which require significant additional work or further
discussion between the Zoning Administrator and the applicant, the
Administrator may defer sending the matter to the Planning and Zoning
Commission until the outstanding issues have been addressed adequately by the
applicant.
      (2)   Planning and Zoning Commission. At the next regular meeting
following the filing date for applications, the Planning and Zoning Commission
shall consider the sketch plan and the comments and recommendations of the
Zoning Administrator pertaining to the application. The Planning and Zoning
Commission, using criteria established elsewhere in this regulation, the
comprehensive plan and the town ordinances, shall approve the application,
grant approval with modifications or deny the application.
      (3)   Appeal to Town Board of Trustees. Decisions of the Planning and
Zoning Commission may be appealed to the Board. A written appeal of any action
by the Planning and Zoning Commission shall be filed within 14 calendar days
following the Planning and Zoning Commission decision.
      (4)   Town Board action.
         (a)   Appeals to the Town Board.
            1.   Decisions of the Planning and Zoning Commission appealed to
the Town Board shall be heard after giving ten-day written notice to the
applicant at a regularly scheduled meeting.
            2.   The Town Board shall, using criteria established elsewhere in
this regulation, the comprehensive plan and the town ordinances, approve the
application, grant approval with modifications or deny the application.
         (b)   Town Board review.
            1.   The Town Board may call up for review any preliminary plan
acted upon by the Planning and Zoning Commission.
            2.   Notice of such review must be requested in writing from three
or more Board members, or a majority decision of the Board members at a
regularly scheduled Board meeting within 14 days following the Planning
Commission decision.
      (5)   Acceptance. Approval of the preliminary plan does not bind the
Planning Commission or Town Board to accept the final plat.
(Ord. 2-98, passed 4-22-1998; Ord. 14-2017, passed 10-11-2017; Ord. 09-2021,
passed 10-27-2021)
§ 153.104 FINAL PLAT.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of the final plan or plat is to provide a legal
document that will be a part of the town and/or county records describing the
development rights and land descriptions of the property. The final plan shall
include all final agreements between the owner or developer and the town.
Submission requirements for final plats are found in §
153.178.
   (B)   Review procedure.
      (1)   Planning and Zoning Commission/Town Board action.
         (a)   In connection with any request for subdivision, a final plat
shall be submitted in accordance with the requirements of §
153.178. Upon a finding by the Administrator that a complete plan has been
submitted, reviewed and approved by all applicable departments, and after
consultations with potentially impacted public agencies, the final plat will be
scheduled for consideration at a public hearing before the Planning and Zoning
Commission and the Board of Trustees.
         (b)   1.   The Planning and Zoning Commission shall review the final
plat and send its recommendations to the Board of Trustees.
            2.   The Board of Trustees shall approve, approve with conditions
or deny the final plat in accordance with the criteria set forth in this
chapter. Notice of the public hearing(s) shall be provided in accordance with §
153.109.
      (2)   Recording and filing requirements. The Town Clerk shall cause the
final plat and written agreements to be recorded with the County Clerk and
Recorder and shall return one executed copy to the applicant. The Clerk shall
also file copies of the plats and annexation ordinances as required by state
statutes.
      (3)   Withdrawal of subdivision plat or annexation plat request. If the
subdivider fails to submit to the Administrator a final plat conforming to the
approved preliminary plat or any other requested document within 90 days after
the advertised public hearing on the preliminary plat or annexation request,
all official approvals of the Town Board or Planning Commission in regard
thereto shall be deemed withdrawn.
      (4)   Administrative requirements.
         (a)   The Administrator may set reasonable deadlines for the filing of
plans for consideration by the Technical Review Committee, the Planning
Commission and the Town Board to allow adequate time for examination by its
members.
         (b)   The Administrator shall also make available, at a reasonable
cost, copies of these regulations and other related documents, and shall
provide a checklist to serve as a guide to the requirements of this chapter for
the applicants.
(Ord. 2-98, passed 4-22-1998; Ord. 14-2017, passed 10-11-2017; Ord. 09-2021,
passed 10-27-2021)
§ 153.105 UTILITY REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Drainage and storm sewers.
      (1)   The developer shall be responsible for the conveyance of all storm
water flowing through the site and for the planning, design and installation of
an adequate drainage system in accordance with all applicable town standards
and specifications.
      (2)   Drainage studies of existing and future flows into and out of the
subdivision site shall be prepared by a registered engineer, and all studies
shall be approved by the town.
      (3)   The town shall not approve any subdivision plat which does not make
adequate provisions for storm water and flood runoff.
      (4)   The storm water drainage system shall be separate from and
independent of the sanitary sewer system.
      (5)   The town shall allow the use of streets for drainage within the
limitations stated in the town’s standards and specifications.
      (6)   When a proposed drainage system will carry water across private
land outside the subdivision, appropriate drainage easements shall be secured
by the developer, indicated on the final plat of subdivision and shown by an
appropriate instrument of grant which shall be recorded with the County Clerk
and Recorder.
      (7)   Drainage, flood and watercourse areas and flow shall be retained in
their natural state to the maximum extent feasible.
      (8)   Drainage construction plans shall be submitted to the town for
approval in accordance with this chapter and other applicable town codes and
requirements.
      (9)   In general, subdivision drainage facilities shall be located within
the proposed subdivision and shall be designed to accommodate the minor and
major storms, unless regional detention facilities exist within the subject
watershed. The drainage facilities for the proposed subdivision shall be
designed to accept the historic flows from areas upstream of the subdivision
site and release flows from the subdivision site in a manner which does not
adversely affect downstream properties.
   (B)   Policies for development in floodplains.
      (1)   Subdivisions and other development projects shall comply with all
applicable town standards and specifications.
      (2)   The town may approve the location of lots within a 100-year
floodplain under the following conditions.
         (a)   The buildable area of the lot shall be raised to a minimum of
12-inches above the elevation of the 100-year flood elevation.
         (b)   The subdivision shall provide an overflow zone approved by the
town along the affected stream or watercourse which is sufficient to safely
contain or convey storm water in times of flooding.
         (c)   The overflow area shall be located in a restricted tract, right-
of-way or easement which permits no structures or fill.
         (d)   1.   The developer must secure a approved letter of map revision
(LOMR) to revise the Federal Emergency Management Agency floodplain map.
            2.   Such letter shall become a condition of approval for the
subdivision.
         (e)   The developer must be able to achieve the above requirements
within the town floodplain policies.
      (3)   The town shall require that drainage and floodplain areas within a
proposed subdivision be subdivided into restricted lots or tracts with specific
drainage and or floodplain restrictions if the town determines the following:
         (a)   The restrictions for the lots or tracts are necessary for the
health, safety or welfare of the present and/or future residents of the
subdivision and of the town;
         (b)   The restrictions are necessary for the conservation of water;
and
         (c)   The restrictions are necessary for the provision of adequate
drainage and sanitary facilities.
      (4)   Any lot or tract with drainage and floodplain restrictions shall be
subject to the following conditions.
         (a)   The lot or tract shall be of such size as to preserve the
drainage areas to provide adequate width for maximum potential flow volumes of
storm runoff and to permit the practical maintenance of the drainage area.
         (b)   The lot or tract shall retain the drainage or waterway
vegetation or be improved in accordance with a landscape plan approved by the
town.
      (5)   Floodplains which are required to be in restricted lots or tracts
shall be protected from any and all destruction or damage resulting from
clearing, grading or dumping of earth or waste materials.
      (6)   The developer shall maintain, or ensure the maintenance in
perpetuity, all restricted lots or tracts which contain floodplains or drainage
ways. The perpetual maintenance shall take one of the following forms.
         (a)   If the property is sold or transferred to a new owner, the new
owner shall have the maintenance responsibility of the subdivided property.
         (b)   If the all lots in the subdivision are sold to individuals, an
owner’s maintenance agreement shall be created as a condition of approval and
shall become responsible for assuming the required maintenance.
         (c)   The lot or tract may be dedicated to the town in accordance
with, and as a condition of approval of the final plat; whereby, the town
assumes responsibility for maintenance.
      (7)   Should a drainage way, watercourse or floodplain area within a
subdivision be designated for public open space or public park use in the
comprehensive plan, or designated as public open space of park area by the
town, the following conditions shall apply.
         (a)   A perpetual public drainage easement shall be dedicated or the
area conveyed to the town as determined by the town, and shall be shown as such
on the final plat or other instrument as appropriate.
         (b)   The easement dedicated or conveyed shall conform to the drainage
and floodplain requirements of this chapter.
      (8)   Where topography or other conditions make the inclusion of drainage
facilities within the street rights-of-way impractical, perpetual drainage
easements or property dedications and conveyances to the town shall be provided
across the subdivided property outside the street rights-of-way along adequate
access to a public street for maintenance purposes.
      (9)   (a)   Drainage easements or property conveyances shall be of
sufficient width to contain the drainage facility, convey storm runoff for the
100-year storm and allow for adequate access for maintenance.
         (b)   The easement shall follow the natural watercourse or drainage
facility.
      (10)   All drainage easements and rights-of-way shall be shown on the
final plat.
   (C)   Water facilities.
      (1)   (a)   The developer shall be responsible for the extension and/or
creation of water transmission facilities and mains to and within the
subdivision.
         (b)   The water mains shall be of sufficient size and pressure to
transmit water for potable use, landscape watering, fire suppression and other
uses permitted by the zoning classification of the land.
      (2)   The water system shall be designed and installed by the developer
in accordance with the requirements of the town’s standards and specifications.
      (3)   Water mains shall be installed to serve each lot in the
subdivision.
      (4)   Water mains shall be located in dedicated street or alley rights-
of-way, unless specifically approved on the final plat and by the Town Manager.
      (5)   If water mains are allowed outside of dedicated right-of-way as
described in this chapter, all existing and proposed easements for water lines
shall be shown on the final plat and dedicated to the town.
         (a)   Easements for water lines shall be a minimum of 20 feet in width
for one line and 30 feet in width for two lines, or as required by the town to
accommodate the installation and maintenance of the lines and facilities.
         (b)   Easements for water lines shall be dedicated as exclusive
easements and no structure or other obstruction other than fences or
landscaping shall be allowed within a waterline easement.
         (c)   Water line easements acquired in adjoining properties shall be
recorded with the County Clerk and Recorder as a condition of final plat
approval.
      (6)   All non-tributary groundwater shall be dedicated to the town.
      (7)   The developer shall install and maintain the exterior fire
suppression system, including fire hydrants, for the subdivision in accordance
with the requirements of the town. Such maintenance shall continue until final
acceptance of the system by the town.
      (8)   The fire suppression system shall be detailed in the construction
drawings submitted to the town.
   (D)   Wastewater facilities.
      (1)   The developer shall be responsible for the extension and/or
creation of wastewater transmission facilities and lines to and within the
subdivision. The wastewater collection lines shall be sufficient to transmit
wastewater for uses permitted by the zoning classification of the land.
      (2)   The wastewater collection system shall be designed and installed by
the developer in accordance with the requirements of the town’s standards and
specifications.
      (3)   Wastewater collection lines shall be installed to serve each lot in
the subdivision.
      (4)   No private sewage disposal systems will be allowed.
      (5)   (a)   If a private sewage disposal system exists at the time of
this chapter, the following conditions will apply.
         (b)   The system shall conform to the requirements of the town’s
standards and specifications at the time of replacement or significant repair.
         (c)   They must then connect to the town’s collection system if
reasonably possible.
      (6)   All existing and proposed easements for wastewater lines and
facilities shall be shown on the final plat and dedicated to the town and shall
be approved by the Town Manager.
      (7)   Easements for wastewater lines shall be a minimum of 20 feet in
width for one line and 30 feet in width for two lines, or as required by the
town to accommodate the installation and maintenance of the lines and
facilities.
      (8)   Easements for wastewater lines shall be dedicated as exclusive
easements and no structure or other obstruction other than fences or
landscaping shall be allowed within a wastewater easement.
      (9)   Wastewater line easements acquired in adjoining properties shall be
recorded with the County Clerk and Recorder as a condition of final plat
approval.
   (E)   Other utilities.
      (1)   All new utility lines, including, but not limited to, gas, electric
power, telephone and cable television lines, shall be located underground
throughout the subdivision. See §
153.181.
      (2)   Existing overhead utility lines shall be buried with the exception
of major transmission line facilities.
      (3)   Utility appurtenances, where feasible, shall be located underground
and away from public activity areas such as parks, playgrounds and schools
within the subdivision.
      (4)   If utility appurtenances shall be located above ground in public
activity areas such as parks, playgrounds and schools or in areas subject to
public assembly, they shall be subject to the following conditions.
         (a)   Above ground utilities shall be located in areas where they are
visually unobtrusive.
         (b)   Above ground utilities shall be located sufficiently away from
public rights-of-way to avoid potential danger to the public.
         (c)   Above ground utilities shall be screened from view by a method
approved by the Town Town Manager.
      (5)   Underground service connections to the street property line of each
platted lot in a subdivision, and other utility improvement required by the
town and/or utility provider shall be installed and maintained at the
developer’s expense until such responsibility is assumed in perpetuity by a
property owner or homeowners association.
      (6)   (a)   Preparation of all utility plans shall be the responsibility
of the developer in coordination with each utility provider and the town.
         (b)   The plans shall adhere to all requirements of this chapter, the
town and the utility provider.
      (7)   Adequate easements shall be provided for all public and private
utilities as determined by those utilities. All such easements shall be shown
and dedicated on the final plat.
      (8)   Utility easements shall be located along the rear lot line of each
lot in the subdivision.
      (9)   Where topographical or other conditions make the location of
utility easements along the rear lot lines infeasible, an unobstructed easement
shall be provided along the side lot line with appropriate access to a public
road or rear lot lines.
      (10)   Utility easements acquired in adjoining properties to provide
service to the proposed subdivision shall be recorded with the County Clerk and
Recorder.
(Ord. 2-98, passed 4-22-1998) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.106 DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENTS.
   The town will execute agreements with property owners to assure each party
that the town and the owner will provide the public services or improvements
required for development. These agreements will cover subdivision improvements,
bulk land variances, annexation and the costs of oversized or off-site
improvements.
   (A)   Subdivision improvements agreements.
      (1)   After preliminary plat approval, the subdivider cannot obtain final
subdivision plat approval until he or she provides for the installation of all
public improvements required by the development. Except as otherwise provided
in this section, the subdivider shall be responsible for the cost and
construction of all wastewater, water or drainage facilities, streets, alleys,
sidewalks, curbs, gutters, fire hydrants and related appurtenance in and
through his or her property or development.
      (2)   The subdivider may install the improvements for acceptance by the
town before submitting the final plat. He or she also may obtain the final plat
approval before completion of the required infrastructure, if he or she enters
into a subdivision improvements agreement that provides financial guarantees
for the completion of the required infrastructure.
      (3)   (a)   The subdivision improvements agreement shall identify the
required infrastructure improvements, which will be contained in construction
documents approved by the town. It shall provide for the installation of the
improvements to the satisfaction of the town within two years.
         (b)   The agreement shall require the subdivider to provide a
financial guarantee equal to 125% of the estimated cost of constructing the
improvements. The guarantee must be irrevocable and may be in the form of a
performance bond, letter of credit, cashier’s check, escrow deposit or other
pledge of liquid assets. The agreement shall give the town the right to draw
upon the financial guarantee to collect sufficient funds if necessary to
complete the improvements in accordance with the approved specifications if the
subdivider defaults on the agreement.
   (B)   Bulk land subdivision agreements.
      (1)   (a)   Bulk land subdivisions establish zone and parcel boundaries
for planned developments, dedicate rights-of-way, grant easements or convey
properties to intermediate land holders who will not be the ultimate land
developers or end users.
         (b)   Bulk land subdivision plats usually do not result in
construction until further subdivision or site plans are prepared.
      (2)   Upon approval of a bulk land subdivision, the subdivider and the
town will execute and record an agreement notifying subsequent purchasers that
future subdivision or site plans for the property will require the provisions
for the installation of infrastructure improvements before development.
   (C)   Annexation agreements.
      (1)   The town and owners of land annexed into town shall enter into
annexation agreements concerning the provision of required water, sanitary
sewer, drainage and other public facilities and services required for the
development of the property.
      (2)   This agreement shall cover the applicant’s acceptance of the town’s
land development requirements, the adequacy of existing public facilities to
serve the annexed properties and provision for required public improvements.
   (D)   Cost recovery agreements.
      (1)   Sewer, water or drainage facilities.
         (a)   1.   The Administrator may require a subdivider to construct a
larger public facility than required for the development of the subdivider’s
property in order to serve the meets of adjacent property owners. When this
occurs, the town may enter into an agreement with the subdivider to collect
from adjacent landowners a pro-rata share of the construction costs and refund
such costs to the subdivider at the time of each connection.
            2.   When the subdivider needs to construct sewer and/or water
service facilities through or adjacent to unserviced or undeveloped lands, he
or she shall pay the entire costs of such facilities. However, the town may
agree to charge a pro-rata assessment to each additional owner who connects to
the facility. The town shall collect and refund each assessment to the
subdivider at the time of each connection.
         (b)   When lift stations or force mains are required, the cost of
constructing said stations or mains shall be the responsibility of the property
initially served. If the pump station and force mains can serve more area or
land or if the town requires more capacity than necessary to serve the initial
development, the town and the subdivider may enter into a cost recovery
agreement that provides for the town to collect a pro-rata share of the
construction costs from adjacent owners at the time of their connection and
refund such costs to the subdivider.
         (c)   If lift stations and force mains are required, the system shall
be designed, where possible, so as to permit an eventual connection into a
gravity system with minimal expense. Where practicable, the subdivider shall
grant easements and construct lines to tie into the gravity system. The town
may require deposits, when deemed necessary, to pay for the eventual
construction of gravity lines.
      (2)   Streets, alleys, sidewalks, curbs, gutters or fire hydrants. A
subdivider shall pay the entire cost of streets, alleys, sidewalks, curbs,
gutters or fire hydrants that he or she constructs on, through or adjacent to
un-serviced or undeveloped lands. However, the town may agree, in writing, to
collect a pro-rata share of the costs from the owner of property served by such
facilities at the time of construction and refund such costs to the subdivider.
All streets and related improvements are to be constructed to the
specifications adopted by the town.
   (E)   Recovery cost agreement content.
      (1)   If a subdivider desires to enter into a recovery agreement with the
town, he or she shall provide a complete detailed summary of all the
construction costs to the Administrator within 90 days after completion of
construction.
      (2)   (a)   The subdivider and the Administrator shall jointly determine
the service area of the facilities constructed by the owner or developer, and
shall jointly determine a per-front-foot, per-lot or per-acre recovery charge
for said service area based upon the total construction cost submitted by the
subdivider and approved by the Administrator.
         (b)   If the subdivider and the town disagree on the amount, the
determination of the Administrator shall be final for the purpose of review by
the Board of Trustees.
      (3)   The amount of the unit recovery charge (per-front-foot, per-lot or
per-acre) shall be the total construction cost approved by the Administrator
divided by the number of equal or nearly equal units (front-feet, lots or
acres) served by the facilities.
      (4)   (a)   The subdivider’s right to reimbursement under the provisions
of the recovery agreement shall not exceed 20 years unless the Board of
Trustees approve a longer period. The subdivider’s right to reimbursement is
limited to the recovery of his or her total construction cost. Concurrent
filing for preliminary and final plans.
         (b)   1.   For major developments with approved sketch plans, the
applicant may file the preliminary and final plans concurrently when authorized
by the Administrator.
            2.   In no case shall an applicant be permitted to file these plans
concurrently without a previously approved sketch plan.
            3.   Applicants making concurrent filings shall be on notice that
changes required of the preliminary plans must be made prior to the final plan
approval.
(Ord. 2-98, passed 4-22-1998) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.107 CONCURRENT FILING FOR PRELIMINARY AND FINAL PLANS.
   For major developments with approved sketch plans, the applicant may file
the preliminary and final plans concurrently when authorized by the
Administrator. In no case shall an applicant be permitted to file these plans
concurrently without a previously approved sketch plan. Applicants making
concurrent filings shall be on notice that changes required of the preliminary
plans must be made prior to the final plan approval.
(Ord. 2-98, passed 4-22-1998)
§ 153.108 MINOR SUBDIVISION.
   (A)   Application.
      (1)   Applicants for a minor subdivision are required to pay appropriate
fees upon requesting sketch review by the town staff.
      (2)   (a)   The Administrator shall determine if the submitted minor
subdivision plat application is complete.
         (b)   If the application is not complete, the Administrator may reject
the application and inform the applicant of the materials needed to make the
application complete.
         (c)   If the application is complete, the Administrator shall initiate
processing the plat.
      (3)   A minor subdivision applies to six or less units or lots.
   (B)   Minor plat process.
      (1)   Pre-application/sketch plan review. Applicants shall submit all
materials required for pre-application/sketch plan review by the Administrator
to the Administrator using the submission requirements listed in §
153.178. Timing of the review will follow the process for preliminary plat of
this chapter.
      (2)   Final plat review.
         (a)   Applicants shall submit all materials required for final
required for final plat review by Town Board to the Administrator using the
submission requirements list of §
153.178.
         (b)   Timing notification and public hearing requirements of the
review will follow the process for final plat in §
153.104.
      (3)   Review by the Planning Commission.
         (a)   The Planning Commission shall review and consider the staff
report, any public comments received by the town, the provisions of this
chapter and any other applicable development regulations, standards or
requirements adopted by the town and shall approve, approve with conditions or
deny the minor subdivision sketch plan.
         (b)   Minor subdivisions that are approved with conditions shall be
revised to reflect the conditions before sealing the final plat application.
         (c)   Minor subdivisions that are approved with conditions or denied
may be appealed to the Board of Trustees.
      (4)   Appeal.
         (a)   The applicant or any affected party has ten days within which to
appeal the decision of the Planning Commission to the Board. The appeal to the
Board shall be a complete review of the minor subdivision application.
         (b)   Any affected party is defined as:
            1.   Any person who was notified in writing because they were
within 300 feet of the subject property; or
            2.   An individual who is harmed or negatively impacted by the
actions of the Commission’s decision.
         (c)   The Board shall consider the minor subdivision appeal at a
public hearing.
         (d)   In hearing an appeal, the Board shall, at a public meeting,
review the record of the Commission action. No new testimony may be heard,
except staff may be asked to interpret materials contained in the public
record.
         (e)   1.   The Board may overturn or amend the Commission’s actions
upon a finding that the Commission erred in the application of performance
standard or criteria contained in this chapter or other written documents or
plans adopted by the town.
            2.   Further, the Board may remand for additional evidentiary
findings or for an additional public hearing to obtain new evidence.
         (f)   1.   The Board shall make explicit its rationale for overturning
a decision of the Commission.
            2.   Staff shall, in the case of Board approvals and conditional
approvals, make them a part of the approved minor plat.
      (5)   Review by the Town Board.
         (a)   The Town Board shall consider the final plat at a public hearing
as required in this chapter.
         (b)   The Board will finalize any subdivision improvements agreement
as negotiated by the Administrator and as required to implement the
subdivision.
         (c)   Upon approval of a minor subdivision plat, the Town Board shall
cause the Administrator to record the plat as per this chapter.
(Ord. 2-98, passed 4-22-1998)
§ 153.109 PUBLIC NOTICE REQUIREMENT.
   For all actions under this subchapter requiring a public hearing, the
following public notices are required. (See §
153.173.)
   (A)   Notice shall be sent by first class mail to all real property owners
owning property located within 300 feet of the property in question at least
ten days prior to the public hearing; however, the failure to send or receive
this notice shall not be deemed to deprive the Town Board, Planning Commission
or Board of Adjustment of jurisdiction.
   (B)   Notice of the hearing shall be published in a newspaper of general
circulation within the town at least ten days prior to the public hearing.
   (C)   Notice shall be posted on the subject property at least ten days prior
to the public hearing. (See §
153.173.)
   (D)   All notices shall include:
      (1)   A statement of the nature of the matter to be considered;
      (2)   The time, date and place of the public hearing; and
      (3)   The agency or office and phone number where further information may
be obtained.
(Ord. 2-98, passed 4-22-1998)
§ 153.110 LIMITATIONS ON APPROVAL.
   (A)   Following approval of an application, all property described in the
application must be developed in accordance with the approval, including, but
not limited to, the written documents, site plans and development schedules. It
is unlawful for the owner, developer or applicant to use or develop the
property for any other use or in a manner not consistent with the approved
plan. Each day of violation shall be considered a separate violation of the
provisions of this subchapter.
   (B)   Modification or amendments to an approved application shall be
permitted by following the same procedures as required for approval of the
original application, except as follows.
      (1)   For minor variations in the location of structures, improvements or
open space areas caused by engineering or other unforeseen difficulties, the
Administrator may authorize a modification to an approved site plan. Such
changes authorized by this section shall not exceed 10% of any measurable
standard or modify the use, character or density of an approved application.
All plans so modified shall be revised to show the authorized changes and shall
become a part of the permanent records of the town.
      (2)   The Administrator may authorize an extension of the time scheduled
for the completion of the improvements for a period not to exceed one year. An
extension beyond one year must be approved by the Planning Commission.
      (3)   The Planning Commission shall be notified in writing of all actions
of the Administrator authorizing changes to approved applications or for time
extensions.
(Ord. 2-98, passed 4-22-1998)
§ 153.111 SUBMISSION REQUIREMENTS.
   Submission requirements for subdivisions are detailed in §
153.178.
(Ord. 2-98, passed 4-22-1998)
§ 153.112 DEDICATIONS REQUIRED.
   (A)   General policy. The Planning Commission and Town Board, upon
consideration of the town’s comprehensive plan and the particular type of
development proposed in the subdivision, shall require the dedication or
reservation of areas or sites of a character, extent and location suitable for
public use for roadways, schools, open spaces, parks, public safety and
maintenance facilities, historic sites, scenic areas and other necessary public
purposes. All dedications and reservations for parks and open spaces must meet
the requirements of the zoning ordinance for these uses.
   (B)   Public dedications to the town.
      (1)   Reference shall be made to the town’s comprehensive plan to
determine general locations for various public facilities.
      (2)   Dedication of such sites and land areas shall be made at the time
of final platting in one or any combination of the following ways:
         (a)   By dedicating to the town, in fee simple on the final plat;
         (b)   By granting the land areas in fee simple on general warranty
deeds to the town; or
         (c)   By payment of fees in lieu of land dedications.
   (C)   Commercial and industrial (or other nonresidential) subdivisions. In
the case of nonresidential subdivisions (less than 10% residential use), an
exaction of 2% and/or equivalent fees for public facilities will be required by
the Commission and Board at the time of subdivision. The allocation of land
and/or fees for public facilities will be made at the discretion of the Board
of Trustees upon recommendation of the Planning Commission. For mixed-use
subdivisions, exactions for residential and nonresidential uses will be based
on the proportion of the land associated with residential use.
   (D)   Residential subdivisions.
      (1)   The subdivider shall provide sites and land areas for public
facilities to serve the proposed subdivision and the future residents thereof.
      (2)   Such provisions include the following.
         (a)   For linear subdivision (linear subdivisions as used herein
refers to the traditional subdivision of land not previously subdivided by
official plat filing and does not refer to such subdivisions as condominiums
and townhouses), the Commission shall require the dedication of land areas or
sites suitable for public purposes defined above of 6% of the total area of the
subdivision.
         (b)   In the case of a subdivision of land into multiple dwelling
units on land which has not been previously approved as a linear subdivision or
on land where no previous public facilities dedications was made or fees-in-
lieu paid, the subdivider shall dedicate 6% of the gross area of the land to
the town for public facilities. Said requirement may be waived in whole or in
part by the Commission if there is sufficient park space already provided for
the future residents of the proposed subdivision.
         (c)   1.   With the approval of the Planning Commission and the Board
Trustees, the subdivider will be required to pay fees in lieu of the equivalent
land areas which would have been dedicated to public facilities.
            2.   Fees are to be calculated in the following manner.
               a.   Fees shall be calculated based on the full market value of
the land immediately prior to the platting, but with the zoning district
classification existing at the time of platting that is considered with the
plat application’s intended use.
               b.   Full market value shall be determined by mutual agreement
between the subdivider and the Board of Trustees. In the event of inability of
any of the above parties to agree on the value of the subject land, the
subdivider shall submit to the town a written appraisal from a qualified
appraiser meeting the value requirements set forth herein. Said appraisal shall
be made by an individual or entity that does not have any financial interest in
the subdivision and shall be a member of the Appraisal Institute (MAI) or a
member of the Society of Real Estate Appraisers (SRA), or such other qualified
persons mutually agreeable to staff and the developer. The subdivider shall pay
the cost of said appraisal.
               c.   Such appraisal may be submitted during the review period of
the final plat. If the Commission or Board believes that the appraised value is
not accurate, it may obtain its own appraisal from a qualified appraiser, such
cost of the appraisal to be paid by the town. The average of the two appraisals
shall be used in order to determine the fees the subdivider shall pay.
               d.   All fees-in-lieu of dedications are to be paid prior to the
approval of the final plat.
               e.   For subdivisions that are platted in phases, the above
calculations can be made on a phase-by-phase basis through methods to be
devised by the Commission and/or Board, realizing that by virtue of developing
one phase, the value of the undeveloped adjacent phase will increase. The
subdivider has the option of paying the fees for all phases upon the due date
of fees for the first phase.
         (d)   Payments made under the requirements of this section shall be
made payable to the town.
            1.   Such funds shall be deposited with the Town Clerk to a special
interest-bearing account. Each deposit shall be credited to the name of the
subdivision for which the payment was made. The status of these accounts shall
be reported annually to the Board of Trustees.
            2.   Funds may be withdrawn from the special escrow account by the
Board for the following purposes:
               a.   Purchase of land for public facilities and purposes;
               b.   Preparation of design drawings for improvement to existing
public facilities within the town;
               c.   Purchase of materials, including, but not limited to,
trees, shrubs, benches and equipment to be used in public parks or recreation
facilities as approved by the Board;
               d.   Physical improvements made to existing public parks or
recreational facilities as approved by the Board;
               e.   Construction of all types of public facilities; and
               f.   i.   Direct transfer of funds to the school district
serving the town for capital improvements and land acquisition of an amount no
greater than one-third of the 6% total dedication.
                  ii.   Thus, the maximum public dedication exaction of land or
fees-in-lieu for schools is 2% and other public purposes is 4% for a total of
6%.
   (E)   Special conditions for dedicated public purpose lands. Land areas that
shall not be acceptable in determining the fulfillment of the re-equipments for
the provision of land areas for public purpose facility sites shall include the
following:
      (1)   Natural drainage ways, streams, gullies and rivers including all
lands within the 100-year floodplain (note: unless the Board specifically
accepts a certain portion for a reasonable use);
      (2)   Rights-of-way and/or easements for irrigation ditches and
aqueducts; and
      (3)   Steep, rugged and hazardous geological land areas and such other
areas as are not conducive for use as public purpose sites.
   (F)   Recreational facilities and open space.
      (1)   Required reservations for parks and open space.
         (a)   All residential developments or developments that include a
residential component shall provide, through dedication, in-lieu fees or
private reservation toward the expected recreational needs of their future
residents as required by these zoning regulations.
         (b)   1.   The decision on park contribution requirements shall occur
at the preliminary plan review, and the requirements for either land dedication
or in-lieu fee for public dedication decided at the final approval stage.
            2.   Land dedication will generally be required only if a proposed
park facility shown on the town’s open space and parks plan is located on or
near the proposed development, and if land dedication could logically
contribute to the development of the proposed park.
         (c)   1.   Dedications to the town can be proposed to be up to 6%
requirements for public purpose dedications as approved by the Planning
Commission and Board.
            2.   Additional open space set-aside requirements of the zone
district may be dedicated and reserved for private home-owners associations or
operated by special districts as appropriate.
            3.   The town reserves the right to accept or reject park and open
space dedications as these proposed dedications may relate to the town’s park
development and maintenance plans.
      (2)   Mini-parks: purpose and standards.
         (a)   1.   The purpose of the mini-parks is to provide adequate active
recreational facilities to serve the residents of the immediately surrounding
neighborhood within the development.
            2.   The following are illustrative of the types of facilities that
shall be deemed to serve active recreational needs and, therefore, to count
toward satisfaction of the mini-park requirements of this section: tennis
courts, racquetball courts, ball diamonds, swimming pools, sauna and exercise
rooms, meeting or activity rooms within clubhouses, basketball courts, swings,
slides, play apparatus and open areas for volleyball, badminton and other
games.
         (b)   Each development may satisfy up to half of its open space
contribution requirement by installing the types of active recreational
facilities that are most likely to be suited to and used by the age bracket of
persons likely to reside in that development.
         (c)   Mini-parks shall be attractively landscaped and shall be
provided with sufficient natural or human-made screening or buffer areas to
minimize any negative impacts upon adjacent residences.
         (d)   Each mini-park shall be centrally located and easily accessible
so that it can be conveniently and safely reached and used by those persons in
the surrounding neighborhood it is designed to serve.
         (e)   Each mini-park shall be constructed on land that is relatively
flat, dry and capable of serving the purposes intended by this subchapter.
      (3)   Usable open space.
         (a)   Except as provided in this chapter, every development shall be
developed so that a land area, as specified by the zone district and as may be
identified by the comprehensive plan, remains permanently as usable open space.
         (b)   For purposes of this section, USABLE OPEN SPACE means an area
that:
            1.   Is not encumbered with any substantial structure;
            2.   Is not devoted to use as a roadway or parking area;
            3.   Is left (as of the date development began) in its natural or
undisturbed state if wooded, except for the cutting of trails for walking or
jogging, or, if not wooded at the time of development, is landscaped for ball
fields, picnic areas or similar facilities, or is properly vegetated and
landscaped with the objective of creating a wooded area or other recreation
area;
            4.   Is capable of being used and enjoyed for purposes of informal
and unstructured recreation and relaxation; and
            5.   Is legally and practicably accessible to the residents of the
development out of which the required open space is taken, or to the public if
dedication of the open space is required pursuant to this chapter.
         (c)   All developments are required to provide a trail or sidewalk
system to accommodate pedestrian and bicycle circulation.
         (d)   Subdivided residential developments of less than 25 dwelling
units are exempt from the requirements of this section unless the town agrees
that it will accept an offer of dedication of such open space, and, in that
case, the offer of dedication shall be made.
      (4)   Ownership and maintenance of recreational areas and required open
space.
         (a)   Except as provided below, recreation facilities and usable open
space required to be provided by the developer in accordance with this chapter
shall not be dedicated to the public but shall remain under the ownership and
control of the developer (or his or her successor) or a homeowners association
or similar organization that satisfies the criteria established in this
chapter.
         (b)   The person or entity identified in this section as having the
right of ownership and control over such recreational facilities and open space
shall be responsible for the continuing upkeep and proper maintenance of the
same.
      (5)   Dedication of open space.
         (a)   1.   If any portion of a lot proposed for residential
development lies within an area designated on the officially adopted recreation
master plan as a neighborhood park or part of the greenway system or bikeway
system, the area so designated (not exceeding 6% of the total development area
parcel) shall be included as part of the area set aside to satisfy the
requirement of this section.
            2.   This area shall be dedicated to public use.
         (b)   If more than 6% of a development parcel proposed for residential
development lies within an area designated as provided in this section, the
town may attempt to acquire the additional land in the following manner:
            1.   The developer may be encouraged to dedicate the common open
space thereby created to the town; or
            2.   The town may purchase or condemn the land.
      (6)   Homeowners associations. Homeowners associations (HOAs) or similar
legal entities that, pursuant to this section, are responsible for the
maintenance and control of common areas, including recreational facilities and
open space, shall be established in such a manner that:
         (a)   Provision for the establishment of the association or similar
entity, according to state law, is to be made before final subdivision approval
is made or any lot in the development is sold; legal documents are to be
forwarded to the town prior to final approval;
         (b)   The association or similar legal entity has clear legal
authority to maintain and exercise control over such common areas and
facilities;
         (c)   The association or similar legal entity has the power to compel
contributions from residents of the development to cover their proportionate
shares of the costs associated with the maintenance and upkeep of such common
areas and facilities; and
         (d)   The town retains the legal authority to compel HOAs to maintain
it’s properties in proper condition.
      (7)   Flexibility in administration authorized.
         (a)   1.   The requirements set forth in this section concerning the
amount, size, location and nature of recreational facilities and open space to
be provided in connection with residential developments are established by the
Board as standards that presumptively will result in the provision of that
amount of recreational facilities and open space that is consistent with
officially adopted town plans. The Board recognizes, however, that, due to the
particular nature of a tract of land, or the nature of the facilities proposed
for installation, or other factors, the underlying objectives of this section
may be achieved even though the standards are not adhered to with mathematical
precision.
            2.   Therefore, the town is authorized to permit minor deviations
from these standards, whenever it determines that:
               a.   The objectives underlying these standards can be met
without strict adherence to them; and
               b.   Because of peculiarities in the developer’s tract of land
or the facilities proposed, it would be unreasonable to require strict
adherence to these standards.
         (b)   Whenever the Town Board authorizes some deviation from the
standards set forth in this section, pursuant to this section, the official
record of action taken on the development application shall contain a statement
of the reasons for allowing the deviation.
      (8)   Streets, roads, pathways and easements. All public streets, roads,
pathways and easements for utilities are to be offered for dedication to the
town or special district as appropriate at the time of final plat approval.
Final plats are to allow for these dedications; however, the actual transfer of
dedications of such streets, road, pathways and easements shall not occur until
such improvements are “accepted” by the town or special district through their
normal improvement acceptance procedure. The dedicated rights-of-way and
easements are to be shown on the final plat along with the dedication
endorsement.
   (G)   Fair contribution for public school sites.
      (1)   For all subdivisions of land, the subdivider shall dedicate land
for a public school site to the town’s School District RE-50J (“school
district”), or, in the event the dedication of land is not deemed feasible or
in the best interest of the school district, as determined by the
superintendent or designee of the school district, the subdivider shall make a
payment in lieu of land dedication. The amount of such contribution of either
land or payment in lieu of land (the “fair contribution for public school
sites”) shall be determined pursuant to the table set forth in division (G)(6)
below.
      (2)   The following uses shall be excepted from the fair contribution for
public school sites requirements:
         (a)   Construction of any nonresidential building or structure;
         (b)   Construction of any infill residential project that will not
significantly increase school attendance;
         (c)   Alteration, replacement or expansion of any legally existing
building or structure which does not increase the number of residential
dwelling units;
         (d)   Construction of any building or structure for limited term stay
or for long-term assisted living, including, but not limited to, bed and
breakfast establishments, adult boarding or rooming houses, workforce housing,
the majority of which will be occupied by adults, family-care homes, group-care
homes, halfway houses, hotels, motels, nursing homes or hospices;
         (e)   Construction of any residential building or structure classified
as housing for older persons, pursuant to the Federal Fair Housing Act then in
effect; and
         (f)   Construction of any low-income housing unit designated as such
by the town.
      (3)   The town and school district may consider a request from a
subdivider for an exemption from the fair share contribution for public school
sites where the subdivider demonstrates that good cause exists to justify an
exemption. For purposes of this section, GOOD CAUSE shall include, but not be
limited to, by demonstrating to the town and school district that a unit or
units will not significantly increase school attendance, will significantly or
substantially advance one or more planning policies of the town and school
district and that the wavier or exemption will directly assist the town and
school district in achieving said policies.
      (4)   In the event the fair contribution for public school sites includes
the dedication of land, the subdivider shall provide to the town, prior to
recording the final plat, evidence that such dedication has been made to the
school district in accordance with the following requirements.
         (a)   The subdivider has conveyed to the school district by general
warranty deed title to the land slated for dedication, which title is free and
clear of all liens, encumbrances and exceptions (except those approved in
writing by the school district), including, without limitation, real property
taxes, which will be prorated to the date of conveyance or dedication. If
requested by the school district, the subdivider shall also enter into a
contract with the school district for the sale and purchase of real property
containing customary terms for the land being conveyed to or purchased by the
school district.
         (b)   At the time of dedication or conveyance, the subdivider shall
provide a title insurance commitment and policy in an amount equal to the fair
market value of the dedicated property.
         (c)   Arrangements have been made such that, at the appropriate time,
and not later than the issuance of the first building permit for the
subdivision, the subdivider shall pay or provide for the payment of its
proportionate share of street development costs, if any, for any new roads or
streets determined necessary by the town to provide reasonable access to the
school site, and shall either provide, or pay or make provision for the payment
of the costs associated with making improvements for water, sewer and utilities
stubbed to the site, and over lot grading of the dedicated land. If the school
site is located in a later phase of the development and the subdivider has
agreed to install the required streets and utilities, the subdivider may
satisfy the foregoing obligation by providing the town with a letter of credit
or other improvement guarantee equal to at least 115% of the proportionate cost
of the improvements prior to the issuance of the first building permit for the
land development project. The subdivider shall also have furnished any off-site
easements that the school district needs to develop the site.
         (d)   The land being dedicated or conveyed to the school district
shall be located and configured as directed by the school district.
      (5)   If the fair contribution for public school sites includes payment
in lieu of dedication of land, then prior to the issuance of any building
permit for any residential dwelling unit in the subdivision not otherwise
exempt under division (G)(2) above, the town shall be provided with proof that,
for the lot for which the permit is sought, the required payment in lieu of
dedication of land has been made to the school district.
      (6)   The following table shall be used to determine the fair
contribution for public school sites to the school district required for the
various occupancies addressed in such table:
 
Table 6A
School Land Dedication and In-Lieu Fees Calculations
                                            Single-Family Attached,
                     Single-Family Detached Duplex, Triplex, Four-  Apartment
                                            plex, Condo, Townhouse
Site Dedication      0.0272                 0.0136                  0.0068
Acreage per Unit
Fee-in-lieu per Unit $1,088.59              $544.29                 $272.15
 
(Ord. 2-98, passed 4-22-1998; Ord. 04-2021, passed 2-24-2021) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.113 REQUIREMENTS FOR APPROVAL BY PLANNING COMMISSION.
   No plat of a subdivision of land within the territorial limits of the town
or within the territory within the subdivision control of the Planning
Commission, or any part thereof, shall be filed or recorded until it has been
approved by the Planning Commission and such approval entered in writing on the
plat by the Chairperson and Secretary of the Planning Commission.
(Ord. 2-98, passed 4-22-1998) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.114 BOUNDARY LINE ADJUSTMENTS.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      BOUNDARY LINE ADJUSTMENT. Either a lot merger or minor changes in the
boundary lines of two or more adjacent platted lots of record (or parcels)
where such adjustment does not create additional lots.
      LOT MERGER. The merging of two or more contiguous lots into one lot for
the purpose of building on that lot.
   (B)   Boundary line adjustment review process.
      (1)   Purpose. The purpose of this section is to permit a lot merger or
minor changes in the boundary lines of adjacent lots or parcels without
requiring the processing of an entire subdivision plat application.
      (2)   Approval required. Before any boundary line adjustment shall be
legally effective for any purpose, whether immediate or future, including, but
not limited to, any sale, transfer of ownership or building development of the
affected or resulting lots or parcels, the procedures prescribed by this
section shall be followed.
      (3)   Application. The boundary line adjustment review process is
commenced by filing with the town an application including the following
information:
         (a)   The application and review fee as established from time to time
by resolution of the Board of Trustees;
         (b)   Written consent to the proposed boundary line adjustment signed
by the owners of all of the properties affected or by their duly authorized
agents;
         (c)   A vicinity map showing the general locations of the affected
properties;
         (d)   An 11 inch by 17 inch or larger scaled site plan drawing showing
the existing and proposed boundary lines, dimensions and bearings of the
properties to be affected by the adjustment; the locations, dimensions and
setbacks for all existing and proposed improvements, structures, easements and
utilities; and the current zoning of the properties;
         (e)   The legal descriptions of the properties affected by the
adjustment, describing such properties before and after the proposed
adjustment, and a legal description of the area subject to the adjustment;
         (f)   The proposed deeds or other instruments of conveyance to be used
to effectuate the adjustment, together with legal descriptions;
         (g)   A current title report in the form of a title commitment
indicating the current ownership and the encumbrances, if any, on the affected
properties. The report shall have been issued within three months prior to
submission of the application, and updated commitments shall be provided upon
request;
         (h)   A certificate of taxes due or other evidence demonstrating that
there are no overdue taxes on the affected property;
         (I)   Certified mail return receipts and copies of the letters from
the owners to the holders of any mortgages or deeds of trust upon the
properties evidencing the fact that the owners have sent a copy of the
application to such holders and notified the holders of the requested boundary
line adjustment; and
         (j)   Such other data and information town staff reasonably determine
necessary to conduct a review of the application. The applicant shall promptly
comply with any requests to provide additional or supplemental information. The
deadline for action on an adjustment application shall be automatically
extended to reflect the submittal date of any additional or supplemental
information.
      (4)   Staff review. Upon receipt of a complete boundary line adjustment
application, the Zoning Administrator shall review the request to determine
whether it complies with the requirements of this section and this chapter. The
application may be referred to other town departments and to other appropriate
agencies and persons, and referral comments and consultation regarding the
application may be received from such departments, agencies and persons. The
applicant shall be provided with copies of any written referral comments.
      (5)   Approval or denial of application. Within 30 days of a complete
boundary line adjustment application, the Zoning Administrator shall determine
whether the proposed boundary line adjustment complies with the requirements of
this section and this chapter and shall approve, approve with conditions or
deny the application. Notice of the approval or denial shall be in writing and
shall be provided to the applicant. If the boundary line adjustment is
approved, the applications shall be finalized and the appropriate documents
shall be recorded.
      (6)   Right to appeal. Within 15 days after the date of the Zoning
Administrator’s denial of an application for a boundary line adjustment, the
applicant may appeal the decision to the Board of Trustees with the Town Clerk.
The notice shall state the basis for the appeal. Upon receipt of such notice of
appeal, the requested boundary line adjustment shall be scheduled for de novo
review before the Board of Trustees, pursuant to the public hearing notice
procedures in §
153.109. Upon the completion of such public hearing process, the Board of
Trustees may approve, deny or approve with conditions the requested boundary
line adjustment, and the Board of Trustees decision shall be final.
      (7)   Conditions of approval. Conditions of approval may be imposed on
any boundary line adjustment as may be necessary to conform the application to
the requirements of this section or this chapter.
      (8)   Boundary line adjustment review standards. The decision to approve
or deny a proposed boundary line adjustment shall be based upon whether the
applicant has demonstrated that the proposed adjustment meets all of the
following standards:
         (a)   The adjustment involves adjacent lots or parcels;
         (b)   No new lot or parcel is created;
         (c)   The resulting lots or parcels comply with the applicable
subdivision standards and zoning standards unless the applicant has first
obtained approval for a zoning variance, pursuant to §
153.043(L);
         (d)   The lots or parcels, as approved, will not conflict with
existing structures or utilities on the surrounding property;
         (e)   The lot or parcels, as approved, will not be deprived of access
or have nonconforming access as a result of the adjustment;
         (f)   The adjustment does not create, or mitigates to the extent
possible, negative impacts on the surrounding property;
         (g)   If applicable, the adjustment does not materially impair the
purposes, intent or development contemplated under the planned unit development
plan affecting that property;
         (h)   The resulting lots or parcels allow the efficient use of
property;
         (I)   The adjustment involves only lots or parcels with identical
zoning;
         (j)   All owners and record title interest holders have consented to
the adjustment;
         (k)   The properties subject to the proposed adjustment are not owned
by persons who, within the preceding six months, have submitted one or more
boundary line adjustments for properties adjacent to within the same black as
the properties subject to the application;
         (l)   The adjustment does not dedicate rights-of-way or easements; and
         (m)   The adjustment is not being used to adjust building envelopes or
building site dimensions where no adjustment of legal boundaries is purposed.
      (9)   Finalization and recording of boundary line adjustment.
         (a)   1.   The approval of a boundary line adjustment shall be
evidenced by the issuance of a certificate of approval that has been executed
by the Zoning Administrator and Town Clerk on behalf of the town.
            2.   The certificate shall be void and of no further force and
effect unless it is ready to be recorded as hereinafter provided within 180
days of the date of the decision on the boundary line adjustment.
         (b)   1.   Prior to the recordation of the certificate of approval the
final site plan drawing, all final deeds exchanging property between the
affected parcels, and all final instruments necessary to release or amend deeds
of trust or similar encumbrances on the properties shall be submitted to the
town for final review.
            2.   a.   The applicant shall be responsible for addressing any
corrections requested by the town. Upon town approval, the fully executed
originals of such documents shall be recorded in the office of the appropriate
County Clerk and Recorder by the town, the applicant or an escrow agent (if an
escrow has been opened by the applicant), as the town may direct.
               b.   Immediately following the recordation of such items, the
original, fully executed town certificate of approval shall be recorded. No
boundary adjustment shall be effective unless and until such certificate has
been recorded.
         (c)   The applicant shall pay all recording costs associated with the
boundary line adjustment.
         (d)   In the event the deeds, final site plan or other documents
required for finalization of the approved boundary line adjustment are not
submitted to the town within 180 days following the effective date of the
approval, such approval shall be void and of no further force and effect and no
town certificate of approval shall be recorded.
      (10)   Deed restriction in lieu of lot merger.
         (a)   In the event the owner of property, consisting of not more than
three adjacent lots and contained an existing single-family residential
structure, wishes to obtain a building permit for either an accessory structure
to be located on the property or an addition to the existing structure without
completing a lot merger, the owner may request that in lieu of a lot merger the
town issue the building permit after receiving from the owner a deed
restriction in a form approved by the Town Attorney.
         (b)   The deed restriction shall restrict the owner’s ability to
convey the property without first subdividing it or completing a lot merger.
         (c)   The deed restriction shall be released by the town upon
completion of a subdivision or a lot merger combining all lots, or upon the
determination of the Zoning Administrator that the purpose for such the deed
restriction was given is no longer served. The Zoning Administrator shall have
the authority to execute any such deed restriction and any release of a deed
restriction on behalf of the town.
(Ord. 2-98, passed 4-22-1998; Ord. 20-2016, passed 10-26-2016; Ord. 05-2022,
passed 3-23-2022) Penalty, see §
153.999
VESTED RIGHTS
§ 153.125 WHEN DEVELOPMENT RIGHTS ARE VESTED.
   This vested rights section provides the procedures necessary to implement
the provisions of C.R.S. Title 24, Article 68, which establishes a vested
property right to undertake and complete development of real property under the
terms and conditions of a site-specific development plan (hereinafter SSDP). No
vested rights shall be created within the town except through a SSDP.
   (A)   Definition of site-specific development plan.
      (1)   A SSDP within the town may be established at the final approval of
a development by the town which occurs prior to a building permit application.
If a landowner wishes the approval of any of the following plans to have the
effect of creating vested property rights pursuant to state law, the landowner
must so request at least 20 days prior to the date said approval is to be
considered and pay the applicable fee. Failure to so request approval of an
SSDP and pay the fee therefor renders the approval not an “SSDP”, and no vested
rights shall be deemed to have been created.
      (2)   An SSDP may not be approved prior to the approval of any of the
following by the town; however, an SSDP may be approved concurrently with the
following plan approvals:
         (a)   For all property zoned PD under the this chapter, a final
development plan described in this chapter;
         (b)   For all other properties within the town, the final plat for
single-family detached residences defined in this chapter;
         (c)   An approved site development plan (SDP);
         (d)   An approved site plan for a special or conditional use permit;
and
         (e)   1.   Notwithstanding anything above to the contrary, an SSDP may
be defined in a development agreement between the town and the landowner to
supersede the definition of this chapter.
            2.   Submission requirements for an SSDP or site development plan
are found in §
153.177.
   (B)   Notice and hearing. No SSDP shall be approved until after public
notice and a public hearing before the Town Board of Trustees.
   (C)   Approval conditions. An SSDP shall be deemed approved upon the
effective date of the action of the Town Board. The approval of the Board shall
be accompanied by any terms or conditions imposed on the SSDP.
(Ord. 2-98, passed 4-22-1998)
§ 153.126 WAIVER OR FORFEITURE OF VESTED RIGHTS.
   (A)   Failure to abide by any terms or conditions of the approval of any
SSDP imposed by the town shall constitute a forfeiture by the landowner of any
vested right created by the plan unless otherwise specifically agreed by the
town in writing.
   (B)   Any petition for annexation to the town shall describe all vested
property rights approved by any local government in effect at the time of the
petition, if any, and be accompanied by all SSDPs approved by any local
government. Failure to so identify any previously approved vested property
right and provide all approved SSDPs shall constitute a waiver of the vested
right(s) created by any other local government upon annexation to the town
unless specifically provided otherwise in the ordinance of annexation adopted
by the town.
   (C)   The landowner shall be required to include with any plan submitted for
approval as an SSDP notice of any natural or human-made hazards on or in the
immediate vicinity of the subject property which are known to the landowner or
could reasonably be discovered at the time of submission of the plan. Should a
hazard on or in the immediate vicinity of the property be discovered subsequent
to the approval of a SSDP which would impose a serious threat to the public
health, safety and welfare and is not corrected by the landowner, the vested
property right created by such SSDP shall be forfeited by the landowner.
   (D)   A new SSDP submitted by a landowner and approved by the town forfeits
any pre-existing vested rights for the property.
   (E)   Failure of the landowner to publish the notice required by division
(F) below constitutes a waiver by the landowner of the vested right created by
the approval of the SSDP.
   (F)   Each SSDP, upon approval by the town, shall contain a statement as
follows: “This plan constitutes a site-specific development plan as defined in
C.R.S. §§ 24-68-101 et seq., and the Town of Wiggins Land Development Code.”
[and, if applicable] “The terms and conditions of such approval are contained
in Resolution No.____ adopted by the Town on _____________ and available at the
Wiggins Town Hall, ______________, Wiggins, Colorado.” In addition, a notice
describing the type and intensity of use proposed, the specific parcel or
parcels of property affected, the terms and conditions of any approval and
stating that a vested property right pursuant to C.R.S. Title 24, Article 68,
has been created shall be published once, no later than 14 days after approval
of the SSDP, in a newspaper of general circulation within the town by the
landowner at the expense of the landowner. The period of time permitted by law
for the exercise of a vested right shall not begin to run until the date of
such publication. Failure to publish this notice constitutes a forfeiture of
the vested right.
(Ord. 2-98, passed 4-22-1998)
§ 153.127 DURATION.
   A property right which is vested as provided herein shall be vested for a
period of three years from the date of approval of the SSDP upon compliance
with all terms and conditions of such approval. This vesting period shall not
be extended by any amendments to the SSDP, unless expressly authorized in
writing by the town.
(Ord. 2-98, passed 4-22-1998)
§ 153.128 SUBSEQUENT REGULATION PROHIBITED.
   Any vested property right, once established, precludes any zoning or land
use action by the town or pursuant to an initiated measure which would alter,
impair, prevent, diminish, impose a moratorium on development or otherwise
delay the development or use of the property, as set forth in a SSDP, with the
following exceptions:
   (A)   With the consent of the affected landowner;
   (B)   Upon the discovery of natural or human-made hazards on or in the
immediate vicinity of the subject property, which hazards could not reasonably
have been discovered at the time of vesting plan approval, and which hazards,
if uncorrected, would pose a serious threat to the public health, safety and
welfare; or
   (C)   (1)   To the extent that the affected landowner receives just
compensation for all costs expenses, and liabilities incurred by the landowner
that would be negated by the change in regulation.
      (2)   These may include, but are not limited to, fees paid in
consideration of financing, and architectural, planning and marketing, legal
and other consultants’ fees incurred after approval of the SSDP by the Board,
together with interest thereon at the legal rate until paid.
      (3)   Just compensation shall not include any diminution in the value of
the property which is caused by such action.
(Ord. 2-98, passed 4-22-1998)
§ 153.129 EXTENSION AND AMENDMENTS.
   (A)   No extension or amendment of the vesting period or the rights that are
vested shall be granted unless such extension or amendment is approved by the
Board following a public hearing. Such request for extension or amendment shall
be filed by the landowner, together with all materials and fees required by
this chapter to be submitted for original approval.
   (B)   No extension shall be granted by the Board for a period greater than
one year. Vested rights amendments shall be the same as the original or the
extension in terms of duration.
(Ord. 2-98, passed 4-22-1998)
§ 153.130 OTHER PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Other requirements remain. Approval of an SSDP shall not constitute an
exemption from or waiver of any other provisions or requirements of the town
pertaining to the development and use of the property adopted or applicable
before or after the approval of an SSDP, including, but not limited to,
building, fire, plumbing, electrical and mechanical codes.
   (B)   Limitations. Nothing in this section is intended to create a vested
property right, but only to implement the provisions of C.R.S. §§ 24-68-101 et
seq. In the event of a repeal of said statute or a judicial determination
invalidating or declaring unconstitutional part or all of said statute, this
section shall be deemed repealed and the provisions hereof no longer effective,
or in the event only a portion of said statute is declared void or
constitutional, then the portion of this section corresponding thereto shall be
deemed repealed and no longer effective.
   (C)   Development agreement.
      (1)   Nothing herein shall be construed to limit the authority of the
town and a landowner to enter into a development agreement vesting property
rights in the landowner. Such agreement shall be construed in accordance with
the terms and conditions of said agreement and not be limited or expanded by
the provisions of this chapter.
      (2)   Such development agreements shall be adopted by ordinance subject
to referendum.
   (D)   Compliance. Following approval or conditional approval of a SSDP,
nothing in this section shall exempt the SSDP from subsequent reviews and
approvals by the town to ensure compliance with the terms and conditions of the
original approval, if such reviews and approvals are not inconsistent with said
original approval.
(Ord. 2-98, passed 4-22-1998)
ANNEXATIONS
§ 153.145 PURPOSE.
   All annexations to the town utilizing the petition method will follow the
following process and standards to ensure that petitions are processed in an
orderly manner, that municipal services are adequate and available to the
property and that all requirements of C.R.S. Title 31, Article 12, as amended,
are fulfilled.
(Ord. 2-98, passed 4-22-1998)
§ 153.146 RESPONSIBILITIES.
   (A)   The applicant is required to prepare all necessary documents in a
professional manner and submit all documents as required. General development
plan submission requirements are the same as rezoning requirements and are
found in §
153.176.
   (B)   The Planning Commission shall make recommendations to the Town Board.
In addition, the Town Clerk will publish the resolution and the public notice
of hearing for four successive weeks in the town’s official newspaper.
   (C)   The first publication shall be at least 30 days prior to the public
hearing before the Town Board. The Town Clerk will also send a copy of the
notice to the County Land Use Department and to any special district or school
district having territory within the area to be annexed at least 25 days prior
to the date fixed for such hearing.
(Ord. 2-98, passed 4-22-1998)
§ 153.147 ELIGIBILITY FOR ANNEXATION.
   Properties proposed for annexation must meet the following requirements.
   (A)   Owners of more than 50% of the area to be annexed including streets
and alleys shall sign the petition for annexation.
   (B)   Not less than one-sixth the outside perimeter of the area to be
annexed shall be contiguous to existing town limits.
   (C)   No land held in identical ownership shall be divided by the boundary
of the proposed annexation without consent of such property owner.
(Ord. 2-98, passed 4-22-1998)
§ 153.148 WHO MAY PETITION FOR ANNEXATION.
   Only owners of the land or his, her or their legal representatives may
petition the town for annexation. Only the landowners may sign the petition.
(Ord. 2-98, passed 4-22-1998)
§ 153.149 REQUIRED ANNEXATION IMPACT REPORTS.
   (A)   (1)   (a)   An annexation impact report is required for parcels larger
than ten acres, unless the Board of County Commissioners and the town agree
that the report may be waived.
         (b)   If a report is required, it must be completed at least 25 days
before the hearing date and filed with the county 20 days before the hearing
date. While it is the responsibility of the town to prepare this report, the
assistance of the petitioners will be necessary to complete the report.
      (2)   Information from the petitioners for the report would include:
         (a)   The existing and proposed land use pattern in the areas to be
annexed;
         (b)   The identity of existing districts within the area to be
annexed;
         (c)   The effect of the annexation upon the local public school
district, including the estimated number of students generated and the capital
construction required to educate such students;
         (d)   A statement of the town’s plans for extending, financing and
providing municipal services within the area to be annexed;
         (e)   A statement identifying all existing special districts within
the area to be annexed;
         (f)   A map of the town and adjacent area showing:
            1.   Present and proposed boundaries of the town in the vicinity of
the proposed annexation; and
            2.   The present streets, major trunk water lines, sewer
interceptors and outfalls, other utility lines and ditches and the proposed
extension of such streets and utility lines in the vicinity of the proposed
annexation.
         (g)   The annexation impact report shall also include a statement
setting forth the town’s plans for financing the extension of municipal sewer
lines into the area to be annexed.
   (B)   (1)   The town may also require that a fiscal impact report be
prepared under its direction at the petitioner’s expense.
      (2)   This report should provide the information needed by the town to
evaluate the fiscal costs and benefits of the proposed annexation over a multi-
year period.
   (C)   Town staff must also review the proposed annexation and provide their
evaluation and recommendations to the Board prior to the scheduled public
hearing.
   (D)   Town staff shall refer the annexation impact report to relevant review
agencies.
(Ord. 2-98, passed 4-22-1998)
§ 153.150 REQUIRED DEDICATIONS.
   (A)   The petitioners shall dedicate or agree to dedicate sufficient land
and rights-of-way to the town for public streets and alleys, as set forth in
the standards and specifications of the town and the town’s master plan for
transportation.
   (B)   (1)   The petitioners shall dedicate or agree to dedicate sufficient
and unobstructed rights-of-way for utility easements and storm drainage to
serve the proposed development.
      (2)   Petitioners also agree to pay utility development fee and tap fees
as determined by the town.
   (C)   The petitioners shall dedicate or agree to dedicate to the town, or
pay cash in lieu of at the time of platting, land to be used for public
purposes of at least 6% of all residential and 2% of all nonresidential
property proposed for annexation.
   (D)   The petitioners shall assign to the town all rights, title and
interest in any water rights associated with the property or in any and all
water located beneath the property to be annexed.
   (E)   (1)   The petitioners shall be required to construct all roads,
utilities and other improvements at his, her or their sole expense and
according to the requirements, standards and specifications of the town.
      (2)   Connection of such improvements to existing town systems and/or the
dedication of such improvements to the town shall be at the town’s convenience.
(Ord. 2-98, passed 4-22-1998)
§ 153.151 PRE-ANNEXATION AGREEMENT.
   Petitioners will enter into a pre-annexation agreement to establish the
amount of deposit fees required to process and review the annexation petition,
annexation agreement and general development plan.
(Ord. 2-98, passed 4-22-1998)
§ 153.152 ANNEXATION AGREEMENT.
   (A)   (1)   Petitioners and the town shall engage in negotiations to develop
a formal annexation agreement that addresses timing and requirements of
dedications outlined in this chapter and tied to the general development plan
requirements.
      (2)   The town will begin this process using a model annexation agreement
of its own design.
   (B)   (1)   Although annexation petitions may be accepted by the town prior
to conclusion of negotiations of an annexation agreement, no zoning of the
property will occur until the annexation agreement is complete.
      (2)   Petitioners may include clauses regarding the de-annexation of
property should the negotiations for an annexation agreement be terminated and/
or the property not zoned to the satisfaction of the petitioners.
(Ord. 2-98, passed 4-22-1998)
§ 153.153 PROPOSED ZONING.
   (A)   The proposed zoning for the area to be annexed shall be included in
the annexation agreement and final annexation of the property contingent on the
subsequent adoption of zoning.
   (B)   Processing of annexation petitions, findings of eligibility,
annexation agreements and zoning may proceed concurrently through the review
process, but approvals must be sequenced in order and according to this chapter
and state law.
(Ord. 2-98, passed 4-22-1998)
§ 153.154 STANDARDS FOR ANNEXATION.
   In considering a petition for annexation, the Town Board shall make findings
of facts and conclusions on the following standards for annexation:
   (A)   A community of interest exists between the area proposed to be annexed
and the town; the property to be annexed is a reasonable and logical extension
of the town; and the annexation is compatible with the goals of the town’s
comprehensive plan;
   (B)   Areas proposed for annexation shall not divide tracts in order to
prevent further annexation of adjoining parcels;
   (C)   Areas proposed for annexation which, due to their configuration, cause
excessive police, fire, utility and street cost may not be accepted;
   (D)   Zoning of the area proposed for annexation shall be reasonable in
terms of existing town zoning classifications and consistent with the town’s
comprehensive plan;
   (E)   The area proposed for annexation shall be located where street
extensions and water and sewer utility services are possible without expense to
the town. Where exceptional costs may be required in serving the area proposed
for annexation, financial arrangements to extend streets, water or sewer mains
shall be agreed upon prior to annexation;
   (F)   Problems of storm drainage shall be considered prior to annexation to
ensure that flooding problems within and adjoining the area proposed for
annexation will not be increased by development of the tract;
   (G)   Adequate water rights are provided to serve the proposed development
on the property proposed for annexation and/or fees-in-lieu of water rights
transfer shall be paid;
   (H)   Petitioner has deposited with the town monies in an amount determined
by the Town Board upon a preliminary review of the petition for annexation
according to the pre-annexation agreement. The amount of monies to be deposited
shall be solely in the discretion of the Town Board and shall be intended to
cover all costs to the town resulting from the petition for annexation. No
petition for annexation shall be deemed complete until such time as the
petitioner has deposited the amount of money so determined by the Town Board
and petitioner has agreed to pay such additional sums to the town as may be
required to cover unexpected costs; and
   (I)   Any additional conditions or requirements which the Town Board deems
necessary for the proper evaluation of the petition.
(Ord. 2-98, passed 4-22-1998)
§ 153.155 PLANNING COMMISSION ACTION.
   (A)   The Town Planning Commission shall review staff comments and the
results of staff negotiations with the applicant concerning:
      (1)   Accuracy of annexation petitions and maps;
      (2)   Land use allocations, circulation plans and proposed utility
systems proposed in the general development plan;
      (3)   Proposed dedications;
      (4)   Proposed zoning;
      (5)   Completeness and accuracy of submission documents; and
      (6)   Referral comments concerning the annexation and annexation impact
report.
   (B)   The Planning Commission shall hold a public meeting on the annexation
focusing on issues surrounding the general development plan and the proposed
zoning of the property. The Planning Commission will make recommendations
concerning the standards for annexation in the annexation ordinance.
   (C)   The Planning Commission will make recommendations to the staff and
Town Board concerning issues to be covered in the annexation agreement, but the
Planning Commission is not required to be part of formal annexation agreement
negotiations.
   (D)   The Planning Commission will make a complete record of its
recommendations concerning the annexation and forward them to the Town Board at
least 15 days prior to the Town Board’s review of the petition for annexation.
(Ord. 2-98, passed 4-22-1998)
§ 153.156 TOWN BOARD ACTION.
   The Town Board, after receiving all necessary recommendations, shall follow
the procedure required by the state enabling statutes to include the following.
   (A)   Following receipt of the Planning Commission recommendations, the Town
Board, if appropriate, will adopt a resolution finding the petition to be in
substantial compliance with the statutory requirements. If the petition is
signed by the owners of 100% of the area proposed for annexation, the Board may
annex the territory by ordinance after notice and a public hearing and,
further, without an election unless additional terms and conditions are to be
imposed. The Board shall set the date, time and place for a public hearing to
determine if the annexation meets the requirements of C.R.S. §§ 31-12-104 and
31-12-105. This hearing will be held not less than 30 days nor more than 60
days after the effective date of the resolution setting the hearing.
   (B)   (1)   On the appointed date and time, the Town Board shall hold the
public hearing. The petitioners shall present evidence in support of the
petition.
      (2)   Town staff shall present information concerning:
         (a)   Surveys, legal descriptions and the map of annexation;
         (b)   The one-sixth boundary contiguity requirement;
         (c)   No land held in identical ownership shall be divided, except
with the consent of the landowner;
         (d)   The entire width of perimeter streets or alleys shall be
annexed;
         (e)   No proceedings are pending to annex the land to another
municipality; and
         (f)   1.   This annexation will not result in extending the town’s
boundaries more than three miles in any direction in any one year.
            2.   Any person may appear at the hearing and present evidence on
any matter related to the annexation petition as determined by the Town Board.
All proceedings shall be recorded.
   (C)   Upon completion of the hearing, the Town Board shall adopt a
resolution setting forth findings of facts and its conclusions based thereon
with reference to the following matters:
      (1)   Whether or not the requirements of the applicable parts of C.R.S.
§§ 31-12-104 and 31-12-105 and of this chapter have been met;
      (2)   Whether or not additional terms and conditions are to be imposed;
and
      (3)   (a)   Whether or not an election is required either as a result of
a petition for election or the imposition of additional terms and conditions.
         (b)   A finding that the area proposed for annexation does not comply
with the applicable provisions of C.R.S. §§ 31-12-104 and 31-12-105 and of this
chapter shall terminate the annexation proceeding.
   (D)   If the resolution of the Town Board determines that the annexation is
in compliance with the items above, and further determines that an election is
not required, and does not determine that additional terms and conditions are
to be imposed, the Town Board may thereupon annex the area proposed to be
annexed by ordinance. If additional terms and conditions are to be imposed
which are not agreed to voluntarily and in writing by the landowners, an
election shall be held.
   (E)   After passage of the annexation ordinance, the area is annexed as of
the effective date of the ordinance. The effective date for taxation shall be
the ensuing January 1.
   (F)   After passage of the annexation ordinance, the town will file one copy
of the map of annexation with an original copy of the annexation ordinance in
the office of the Town Clerk and file for recording two certified copies of the
annexation ordinance and the map of annexation containing a legal description
of such area with the County Clerk and Recorder. The town shall request that
the County Clerk forward one copy of the map of annexation and annexation
ordinance to the Division of Local Government in the State Department of Local
Affairs.
   (G)   After final passage of the annexation ordinance, the town may zone the
property either at the same meeting or within 90 days after the effective date
of the annexation ordinance.
(Ord. 2-98, passed 4-22-1998)
§ 153.157 GENERAL DEVELOPMENT PLAN.
   (A)   A general development plan must be prepared describing the desired use
of the property after annexation. Annexations that have no general development
plan will be zoned conservation unless determined otherwise by the Town Board.
The general development plan is required to determine the development
intentions of the petitioners, to use as a basis for the negotiation of an
annexation agreement and to properly zone the property after annexation.
   (B)   Requirements for processing and preparing the general development plan
are the same as for rezoning and are found in this chapter and §
153.176.
   (C)   Petitioners who desire PD zoning will follow the Planned Development
District zoning requirements in preparing the general development plan.
(Ord. 2-98, passed 4-22-1998)
§ 153.158 ZONING OF NEWLY ANNEXED LAND.
   (A)   The town may institute the procedure outlined in state statutes and
this chapter to make newly annexed land subject to zoning at any time after a
petition for annexation on a petition of annexation election has been found to
be valid.
   (B)   The proposed zoning ordinance shall not be passed prior to the date
when the annexation ordinance is passed.
   (C)   Any area annexed shall be brought under the zoning ordinance and
zoning map within 90 days after the effective date of the annexation ordinance.
   (D)   During such 90-day period, the town may refuse to issue any building
or occupancy permits for any portion or all of the newly annexed land.
(Ord. 2-98, passed 4-22-1998)
§ 153.159 SUBDIVISION OF NEWLY ANNEXED LAND.
   (A)   The town may institute the procedures outlined in this chapter to
subdivide land in the area to be annexed at any time after a petition for
annexation or petition for annexation election has been found to be valid.
   (B)   The ordinance accepting the proposed subdivision shall be passed prior
to the date when the annexation ordinance is passed.
(Ord. 2-98, passed 4-22-1998)
APPENDICES
§ 153.170 CONDITIONAL USE PERMIT SUBMISSION REQUIREMENTS.
   An application for a conditional use permit shall include the following
items:
   (A)   The name, address and phone number of the applicant on a completed
application form supplied by the town;
   (B)   Narrative description of the proposal;
   (C)   (1)   Names and addresses of all property owners adjacent to the
subject property, disregarding any intervening public right-of-way.
      (2)   The source of such list shall be the records of the County
Assessor, or an ownership update from a title or abstract company or attorney,
derived from such records, or from the records of the County Clerk and
Recorder;
   (D)   Legal description of the property affected;
   (E)   Vicinity map;
   (F)   Site development plan drawing, 24 inches by 36 inches with two foot
contours, as applicable; and
   (G)   Any other information deemed appropriate by the Administrator for
complete review of the application.
(Ord. 2-98, passed 4-22-1998)
§ 153.171 SPECIAL USE PERMIT SUBMISSION REQUIREMENTS.
   An application for a special use permit shall include the following items.
   (A)   The name, address and phone number of the applicant on a completed
application form supplied by the town;
   (B)   Narrative description of the proposal;
   (C)   (1)   Names and addresses of all property owners adjacent to the
subject property, disregarding any intervening public right-of-way.
      (2)   The source of such list shall be the records of the County Assessor
or an ownership update from a title or abstract company or attorney, derived
from such records or from the records of the County Clerk and Recorder;
   (D)   Legal description of the property affected;
   (E)   Vicinity map;
   (F)   (1)   Site development plan drawing, 24 inches by 36 inches with two
foot contours, as applicable.
      (2)   The plan (scale: one inch equals 50 feet) shall show the location
of all proposed buildings, fences, parking areas, ingress and egress, waste
disposal areas, other construction features and landscaping, and measured
distances to adjoining property lines, and improvements, including those across
a road, street, right-of-way, easements or other narrow strip of property;
   (G)   Certified boundary survey, monumented with legal descriptions;
   (H)   Performance guarantee (as applicable);
   (I)   A written discussion explaining conformance with special use criteria,
water and sewer system contemplated and the street and circulation system
contemplated and connections to off-site streets;
   (J)   Any other information deemed appropriate by the Administrator for
complete review of the application;
   (K)   Appropriate filing fee amount;
   (L)   When required, a soil survey of the particular site;
   (M)   All plans or plat plans, supplemental information, as required, and
fee must be submitted to the Zoning Administrator and Board of Trustees for
study and recommendations at least 20 days prior to the public meeting of the
Planning Commission;
   (N)   Any person who wishes to alter a structure or change a use or method
of operation of any activity in a manner inconsistent with or not provided for
by the original special review use permit shall first apply to the town for a
new special review use permit; and
   (O)   In addition, all applications must adhere to all state and federal
land use or developmental regulations.
(Ord. 2-98, passed 4-22-1998)
§ 153.172 TEMPORARY USE PERMIT SUBMISSION REQUIREMENTS.
   The following information shall be required to accompany an application for
a temporary permit:
   (A)   The name, address and phone number of the applicant on a completed
application form supplied by the town;
   (B)   A description of the proposal, including a discussion of hours of
operation, potential noise impacts, parking accommodation, impacts on adjacent
property, any associated signs or lighting and provision for temporary utility
services, as applicable;
   (C)   Appropriate filing fee amount; and
   (D)   Any other information deemed appropriate by the Administrator for
complete review of the application.
(Ord. 2-98, passed 4-22-1998)
§ 153.173 PROPERTY POSTING PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Notice. Posting notice on property for which an annexation, special
use or rezoning application is pending shall be required.
      (2)   Such notice shall be posted by the applicant at least 15 days prior
to a public hearing before the Planning Commission and/or Town Board.
      (3)   Preliminary planned development (PD) plans and major PD amendments
are included under this requirement.
   (B)   Sign format. The required notice shall consist of at least one sign
facing the prominent adjacent right-of-way. Such sign(s) shall measure not less
than three feet by four feet and shall be erected on posts no less than four
feet above the ground level. Such sign shall read as follows:
 
NOTICE OF PUBLIC HEARING BEFORE THE PLANNING COMMISSION (OR TOWN BOARD OF
TRUSTEES)
Notice is hereby given that the property upon which this sign is posted shall
be considered for (nature of request) pursuant to the Town of Wiggins Land
Development Code. For further information contact the Town of Wiggins at
___________. The public hearing is to be held on (date), in the Wiggins Town
Hall at (time), or as soon thereafter as possible.
Name of Proposal: ___________________________________
Case Number: _________________ Date of Posting: _______________
 
   (C)   Additional requirements. An affidavit verifying the date of the sign
posting is required at least ten days prior to the scheduled Planning
Commission or Town Board hearing date. Such affidavit shall be submitted to the
town for the applicant’s file as per the following form:
Town of Wiggins Planning Commission
Wiggins, Colorado
 
Town of Wiggins Planning Commission
Wiggins, Colorado
RE: PROPERTY NOTICE SIGN POSTING
Case No(s) ______________________________________________________________
Property Name (if applicable): ______________________________________________
Property Location: _______________________________________________________
Hearing Date: ____________________________________________________________
(Before:) Planning Commission ____________ Town Board __________________
This letter is to certify that a sign giving notice of a public hearing was
posted for the above case(s) on or before ___________________________ per the
requirements of the Town of Wiggins Land Development Code.
Signature of applicant/Representative:
_______________________________________________
Date: ________________
(Please print or type)
Name: _________________________________________
Address:   ______________________________________
      ______________________________________
      _______________________________________
 
   (D)   Other requirements.
      (1)   Town staff will verify by on-site inspection that the required sign
has been posted as certified by the applicant.
      (2)   The posted sign shall be removed by the applicant within two weeks
following the final decision by the Town Board.
NOTIFICATION REQUIREMENTS
TYPE OF USE POSTING REQUIREMENTS PUBLICATION REQUIREMENTS MAIL ADJOINING
                                                          LANDOWNERS
NOTIFICATION REQUIREMENTS
TYPE OF USE         POSTING REQUIREMENTS PUBLICATION          MAIL ADJOINING
                                         REQUIREMENTS         LANDOWNERS
SPECIAL REVIEW USE:
Planning Commission 15 days
Board of Trustees                        15 days              15 days
AMENDMENT TO ZONING
ORDINANCES:
Planning Commission 10 days              15 days
Board of Trustees   10 days              15 days              15 days - special
                                                              districts
ANNEXATION:
                                         1 week, 4 successive
Board of Trustees   10 days              weeks starting at    25 days - special
                                         least 30 days prior  districts
                                         to healing
APPEALS &
VARIANCES:
Board of            15 days              1 week               15 days
Adjustments
ALL REQUIREMENTS LISTED ABOVE ARE PRIOR TO MEETINGS OR HEARING OF THE GOVERNING
BODIES
 
(Ord. 2-98, passed 4-22-1998)
§ 153.174 SUBMISSION REQUIREMENTS FOR PLANNED DEVELOPMENT DISTRICT AMENDMENTS.
   (A)   The applicant shall submit ten large format hard copies and an
electronic version of graphic documents similar in format for PD plans with
specific approval signature blocks for ownership of the PD amendment area,
Planning and Zoning Commission approval, Board of Trustees approval and Clerk
and Recorders certificate, plus the legal description of the amendment area and
the dates when the original preliminary PD plans or ODPs were recorded and the
particular file, map and recording page numbers. The word “amendment” shall
appear under the PD title at the top of the page. The staff will indicate the
level of detail necessary for the graphic and narrative submissions.
   (B)   The proposed amendment(s) shall be clearly indicated on a site plan
and a written narrative explaining in detail the changes from the original
preliminary or ODP approval must accompany the site plan.
   (C)   (1)   A list of property owners both within and external to the PD
amendment area and up to 300 feet from the boundary of the PD amendment area.
The town will notice these owners within 15 days of the hearings before the
Planning and Zoning Commission and the Board of Trustees by mail, return
receipt requested.
      (2)   The Planning and Zoning Administrator will determine which
properties within the entire or original planned unit development would be
affected by the proposed change, and all owners of such property shall also
receive notice.
   (D)   A land use chart showing all originally approved residential
densities, numbers of units, nonresidential densities or floor area ratios
(FARs) and nonresidential square footage compared to the new densities, unit
numbers, FARs and square footage.
   (E)   Development plan sheet showing:
      (1)   Use list for all planning areas and maximum heights of uses;
      (2)   Major circulation system;
      (3)   Planning area acreage and densities;
      (4)   Open space areas/trails/parks/recreation facilities;
      (5)   Utility facilities (water, sewer, drainage and the like on a
generalized engineering level);
      (6)   Public facilities and proposed dedication areas;
      (7)   Initial development phasing timetable;
      (8)   Legal descriptions of amendment area tied to original boundary
survey; and
      (9)   Title insurance commitment or policy dated a maximum of 15 days
prior to the date of application.
(Ord. 2-98, passed 4-22-1998; Ord. 14-2017, passed 10-11-2017; Ord. 09-2021,
passed 10-27-2021)
§ 153.175 FINAL PLANNED DEVELOPMENT PLAN SUBMISSION REQUIREMENTS.
   The submission requirements for a final PD plan shall contain the following
material.
   (A)   An application for approval of a final PD plan must be filed by a
person having an interest in the property to be included in the planned
development and must include a consent by the owners of all property to be
included in the planned development.
   (B)   (1)   A complete site plan showing the major details of the proposed
planned development prepared at a scale of not less than one inch equals l00
feet shall be submitted in sufficient detail to evaluate the land planning,
building design and other features of the final planned development, if
applicable.
      (2)   The site plan and supporting documents shall also indicate:
         (a)   A listing of all permitted uses within the PD and/or each
separate planning area;
         (b)   The location of all existing and proposed buildings, structures
and improvements, separated into planning areas, if applicable;
         (c)   The maximum height of all buildings;
         (d)   The density and type of dwellings. Gross square footage and
ground coverage of all nonresidential structures (floor area ratio);
         (e)   The internal traffic and circulation systems, off-street parking
areas, service areas, loading areas and major points of access to public
rights-of-way;
         (f)   The location, height and size of proposed signs, lighting and
advertising devices;
         (g)   The areas which are to be conveyed, dedicated or reserved as
general open space, common park areas, including public parks and recreational
areas, and as sites for schools or other public buildings;
         (h)   The proportion of land to be left in a natural condition as
major open space, stated in terms of acreage or square footage, as well as the
ratio of open space in areas to be developed stated on a square feet per unit
basis;
         (I)   An explanation of the objectives to be achieved by the planned
development, including building descriptions, sketches or elevations as may be
required to describe the objectives;
         (j)   A refined development phasing schedule indicating the
approximate date when construction of the planned development or stages of the
planned development can be expected to begin and be completed;
         (k)   A description of snow removal methods or techniques to be
utilized, as appropriate;
         (l)   A description of the proposed method of providing ongoing
(permanent) maintenance of all commonly owned or publicly dedicated buildings,
facilities, areas and thoroughfares;
         (m)   1.   Copies of any special agreements, conveyances, restrictions
or covenants, which will govern the use, maintenance and continued protection
of the planned development and any of its common areas.
            2.   Such documents shall be in conformance with the requirements
of C.R.S. §§ 24-67-101 et seq., as amended and commonly referred to as the
Planned Unit Development Act of 1972; and
         (n)   Divisions (B)(2)(a), (B)(2)(c), (B)(2)(d) and (B)(2)(h) should
be combined into a chart/table.
(Ord. 2-98, passed 4-22-1998)
§ 153.176 REZONING (ZONING AMENDMENT) SUBMISSION REQUIREMENTS.
   A petition for rezoning shall include copies of the following items:
   (A)   The name, address and phone number of the petitioner on a completed
application form supplied by the town;
   (B)   A general description of all land area to be rezoned, and requested
new classification along with a sketch to scale of one inch equals 100 feet,
bearing contour lines at vertical intervals of two feet, as well as boundaries
of area requested to be rezoned, including an indication of the existing zoning
on all adjacent sides of the area;
   (C)   Appropriate filing fee amount;
   (D)   A statement of justification for the rezoning, including one of the
following conditions:
      (1)   Changing area conditions;
      (2)   Error in original zoning;
      (3)   Conformance to comprehensive plan for areas; or
      (4)   Peculiar suitability of the site to a specific use.
   (E)   Legal description of the property effected;
   (F)   Description and sketches of buildings or uses proposed if rezoning is
granted, along with a description of land and building uses adjacent to the
boundary of the proposed area of change, in all directions;
   (G)   Proof of ownership in the form of a title policy or title commitment,
including a schedule of exceptions to title, dated within 60 days of the
application, showing that the applicant is the fee title owner of all subject
property;
   (H)   (1)   A list of all property owners (names and addresses) adjacent to
the subject property, disregarding any intervening public right-of-way.
      (2)   The source of such a list shall be the records of the County
Assessor, or an ownership update from a title or abstract company or attorney,
derived from such records, or from the records of the County Clerk and
Recorder;
   (I)   Evidence that the property can be served by public sewer and water
services. Such evidence shall be in the form of a written commitment by the
appropriate provider stating that such service will be available to the
property (“commitment to serve” letter);
   (J)   A map showing the location of the property at an appropriate scale;
   (K)   A description of proposed methods to accommodate changes in traffic
patterns on existing and proposed public and private roadways;
   (L)   A statement from local school board concerning the adequacy or
additional needs of the school system to accommodate the proposed rezoning;
   (M)   A description of all proposed parks, playgrounds and other public
facilities;
   (N)   Time schedule for any contemplated new construction or uses;
   (O)   Justification for nay new business or industrial zoning;
   (P)   Statement of the effect that new zoning would have on adjacent uses;
   (Q)   Application for rezoning to the mobile home park shall conform to all
submission requirements set forth in the Mobile Home Park District; and
   (R)   Any other information deemed appropriate by the Administrator for
complete review of the application. Such information may include, but is not
limited to, a certified boundary survey and/or a site plan.
(Ord. 2-98, passed 4-22-1998)
§ 153.177 SITE DEVELOPMENT PLAN (SDP) SUBMISSION REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   The SDP sketch plans. The SDP sketch plan submission requirements
include the following:
      (1)   A brief narrative of the project’s purpose and general intent
concerning land uses, circulation, open space, design concepts of buildings,
proposed heights, densities, utility connections, drainage concept plan and any
other relevant information deemed important by the applicant to explain the
project; and
      (2)   Sketch map of the proposed site layout at a scale of one-inch
equals 50 feet or larger; a bar scale shall also be included:
         (a)   The date, a bar scale, a north arrow, site topography lines (two
foot contours preferred), major physical features and existing vegetation
should be noted;
         (b)   The zoning and general landscaping schemes for all property
within 300 feet;
         (c)   The general planning theme as well as general architectural and
signage standards and materials for the project;
         (d)   An illustration of the general location, character, square
footage, height and use of all proposed structures; and
         (e)   The location and function of adjacent streets as well as vehicle
circulation, parking areas, pedestrian and transit facilities, drainage
facilities and landscaping for the site.
   (B)   Site development plans/formal submission. The following information
shall be required on all drawings of SDPs, landscape plans and grading and
drainage plans:
      (1)   The name of the proposed development and submission phase (centered
at the top of the sheet);
      (2)   A north arrow and a scale of one inch equals 50 feet or larger;
      (3)   Sheet size of 24 inches by 36 inches with the long dimension
horizontal; the title block located in the lower portion of the sheet with the
date of preparation;
      (4)   Development phasing lines;
      (5)   Topography at two-foot intervals;
      (6)   The name, address and telephone number of the individual or firm
who prepared the plans; and
      (7)   (a)   Approved plans shall be black line Mylar.
         (b)   1.   No sepia ink or pencil drawings will be accepted. No sticky
backs, stick-ons or press-type letters or symbols will be allowed on the final
Mylar that are to be recorded.
            2.   All signatures are to be in black, permanent ink. Mylar shall
be in duplicate for the county and town permanent files.
   (C)   Site development plan submission requirements. The site development
plan will contain a narrative including a general description of:
      (1)   The scope of the project and its principal features and attributes;
      (2)   Overall impacts of the proposed development on the adjoining
properties;
      (3)   Relationship to the town’s comprehensive plan;
      (4)   Zoning of property;
      (5)   Name and address of the property owner, the developer if different
than the property owner and the person(s) preparing the site plan;
      (6)   Proof of ownership (deed, current title policy or endorsement up to
120 days old);
      (7)   Legal description or lot and block number, subdivision name, name
of project and address of site, when applicable;
      (8)   Description of the proposed development schedule and phases of
development when construction will not be in one phase;
      (9)   Include any other pertinent descriptive information relevant to the
project;
      (10)   (a)   In addition to the above, a traffic study by a professional
traffic engineer which describes the impacts of the proposed development on the
existing or proposed street system and measures and means for dealing with
these impacts.
         (b)   This requirement may be waived by the Administrator based on the
size and scope of the project;
      (11)   A drainage plan and study prepared by a professional engineer
detailing the analysis and method for directing and containing the run-off over
and above the historical flow from the site. This requirement may be waived by
the Administrator based on the size and scope of the project;
      (12)   A soils report and geological and subsidence investigation report
prepared by a professional engineer must be submitted for the site;
      (13)   A fiscal impact report may be required; and
      (14)   Accompanying the narrative exhibit will be a graphic map that
shows existing site characteristics including:
         (a)   The zoning, easements of record, existing structures, other
improvements and vegetation on the site as well as view corridors to and from
the site. Structures to be removed should be indicated as such;
         (b)   For all surrounding property within 300 feet, this study shall
indicate as-built density and name of subdivision(s). It shall also include the
existing structures, parking areas, public and private streets (including
dimensions and median and curb cuts), pedestrian and transit facilities,
drainage facilities and landscaping and fire hydrant locations; and
         (c)   The names and addresses of the property owners, developers and
adjacent property owners, including those across transportation rights-of-way,
alleys and waterways or bodies.
   (D)   Site development plan drawings. The plan drawings are suggested to be
on at least four separate sheets. Sheet information may be combined depending
on the scope and scale of the project with the concurrence of the
Administrator. Certain drawing requirements may be waived by the Administrator
depending on the scope and scale of the project.
      (1)   Sheet #1 shall be a cover sheet including:
         (a)   Name of the development at the top of the sheet;
         (b)   A general vicinity map at an appropriate scale and including all
existing or proposed freeways, arterials and major collector streets within one
mile of the site;
         (c)   Legal description of the property being planned including
section, 114 section, township and range;
         (d)   Any special notes listed by the plan sheet they refer to;
         (e)   Signature blocks for the Town Board, Planning Commission and
owners or his, her or their representatives; and
         (f)   Names and addresses of plan sheet preparers.
      (2)   Sheet #2 shall be a site plan showing all proposed improvements, in
detail, including:
         (a)   Property dimensions, including lot lines and lot design;
         (b)   1.   Dimensions and location of all proposed structures, their
footprints and height, the number of floors, number of dwelling units, all
overhangs or protrusions into the public or private access routes, location of
entrances and loading points.
            2.   All structures must be dimensioned and their locations must be
tied out, meaning sufficient information to determine the coordinates of any
corner of any structure. Any structure within ten feet of an easement must show
the distance between the closest point of the structure to the nearest point of
the easement.
            3.   Note total building coverage: percent and square footage.
Include setback dimensions from property lines;
         (c)   Name and dimension of all public and private road rights-of-way,
points of access on or adjacent to the proposed site and surface materials;
         (d)   Location, dimension and surface materials of required off-street
parking and loading areas. (Note total number of parking spaces provided, the
percentages of small car spaces and lighting arrangements);
         (e)   The structure’s use (for parking calculations), the gross floor
area and the number of vehicle trips generated by the various uses on the site.
Vehicle trip generation charts by use may be included in the traffic study;
         (f)   Dimensions and locations for all curb cuts, driving lanes,
bicycle lanes, pedestrian ways, garages, carports, public transportation pick-
up points and mailbox kiosks. All public improvements should be labeled, with
dimensions and tied out to property lines;
         (g)   Various notes, as necessary, shall be included;
         (h)   Dimensions and location of all walls, fences and screen
plantings adjacent to public rights-of-way and on the site, particularly around
recreational vehicle and equipment storage areas and trash disposal facilities;
and
         (I)   Location and dimensions of all existing and proposed drainage,
utility and other easements, water and sewer lines, water meters and fire lanes
and hydrants. Location and size of drainage facilities, and the direction of
flow.
      (3)   Sheet #3 shall be a landscape plan showing all landscaping and
buffering details:
         (a)   Dimensions, square footage, percent of site and location of open
space and common areas shall be shown on the plan;
         (b)   Open space as required for a zone district as specified in this
chapter. Percentage calculations for open space shall be shown;
         (c)   1.   Note all building entrances, pedestrian walks or paths,
pedestrian oriented areas and vehicular drives and exterior parking areas
(including dimensions, materials and type of surface finish).
            2.   All recreation areas, use and general equipment locations, as
well as all fences, garden structures and plazas shall be shown. Construction
details showing methods of construction, materials, finishes, colors and the
type and location of the irrigation system shall be included;
         (d)   All slopes and mound areas within the site shall be called out;
         (e)   The plan shall identify and locate plant masses and type of
plants;
         (f)   All lawn areas and ground cover areas shall be identified
including the square footage of the area and the living and non-living plant
materials to be used; and
         (g)   1.   Various notes, symbols and general information shall be
placed on all landscape plans as necessary.
            2.   The following conditions shall apply.
               a.   Landscape installation shall be completed prior to issuance
of certificate of occupancy.
               b.   A statement or note concerning quantity and method of
application of suitable soil preparation as determined by soil type. Soil type
shall be stated in the note.
               c.   General description of the automatic landscape irrigation
system. If the type of system varies on the site, it shall be so stated.
      (4)   Sheet #4 shall show architectural elevations for all structures. It
shall be 24 inches by 36 inches and be drawn at a scale of one-eighths inch to
one inch or larger. All sides of the structures shall be shown. Descriptions of
all materials and colors shall be included. Depending on the scale of the
project, elevations may or may not be required at the discretion of the
Administrator.
(Ord. 2-98, passed 4-22-1998)
§ 153.178 SUBMISSION REQUIREMENTS FOR SUBDIVISIONS.
   (A)   Preliminary plan requirements.
      (1)   MINOR SUBDIVISION REQUIREMENTS is defined as six or less units or
lots.
         (a)   Applicants should submit three copies of the following
preliminary plan materials to the Administrator:
            1.   a.   A title insurance commitment or policy including a
schedule of exceptions to title, or an attorney’s title opinion addressed to
the town, dated or endorsed to a date no more than 15 days prior to the date of
application, showing that the applicant is the fee title owner of all subject
property.
               b.   If such property is encumbered, it shall be required that
such lien holder join in the dedication. It is the responsibility of the
applicant to keep title policies current;
            2.   Documented proof of availability of central sewer and potable
water utility services;
            3.   Documented proof of legal access if the subject property does
not have direct contiguous access to a public road or street;
            4.   Any other special reports required by staff or the Planning
Commission;
            5.   Any proposed subdivision improvements agreement;
            6.   Legal documents pertaining to the organization of any
homeowners association for the maintenance of private roads, open space and the
like, and other documents as required;
            7.   Label the current zoning on the subject and adjoining
properties; and
            8.   Location of trash pick-up area, if required by the Commission.
         (b)   The plat shall contain the following information:
            1.   Title of plat and the phrase “Minor Subdivision - Final Plat”
underneath;
            2.   Legal descriptions of property location by subdivision;
            3.   Prior reception number of previous property transfer; original
subdivision name, if any, and book/page reference in the county records;
            4.   Basis of bearing and description and location of primary
control points of monuments both found and set and ties to such control points
to which all dimensions, angles, bearings and similar data on plat shall be
referred;
            5.   A scale drawing of tract boundary lines, right-of-way lines of
streets, easements and other rights-of-way and property lines of residential
lots and other sites, with accurate dimensions, bearings or deflection angles,
and radii, arcs and central angles of all curves with long chord bearings and
distances;
            6.   Names and right-of-way width of each street or other rights-
of-way together with block and lot numbers;
            7.   Location, dimensions and purpose of any easement, including
reference by book and page to any pre-existing recorded easements;
            8.   All dimensions necessary to establish the boundaries in the
field;
            9.   Planned locations (with dimensions) of all improvements
(building footprints, parking and the like) on the site for airspace
subdivision plats (condos, town homes and the like);
            10.   Dimensions of improvements;
            11.   Notation of scale of drawing or representative fraction of
the drawing(s), a bar-type graphical scale, north arrow (north is to point to
the top of the plat sheet) and date of drawing;
            12.   Notation of which areas, other than residential lots, are
dedicated or reserved, such as for open space;
            13.   Dedications and certifications by the owner and lien holder
platting the property dedicating the streets, rights-of-way, easements and any
sites for the town’s public uses or open spaces;
            14.   Certification by a surveyor ensuring the accuracy of the
survey and plat and certifying compliance with the requirements of C.R.S. Title
38, Article 51, and the requirements of these regulations in the preparation of
the final plat;
            15.   Certificate of approval by the Planning Commission and Town
Board;
            16.   A general vicinity map showing the location of the
subdivision being platted and the name of any underlying subdivision;
            17.   Location of sewer and water service lines and mains;
            18.   Contour lines at two-foot intervals after any grading is
completed;
            19.   Statements describing improvements to the site such as
revegetation measures, means of defining parking, surface material of parking
and drives and the like;
            20.   Show by the use of dashed lines the required front, rear and
side setbacks on typical lots or state setbacks by use type in a chart;
            21.   Ownership title description reference; and
            22.   Planned drainage areas for accommodating historic flows plus
any increased runoff on the property resulting from development.
      (2)   MAJOR SUBDIVISION SUBMISSION REQUIREMENTS is defined as seven or
more units or lots.
   (B)   Sketch plan submission requirements.
      (1)   Developers should submit five hard copies and one electronic copy
of the sketch plan to the Administrator.
      (2)   The sketch plan should include the following items:
         (a)   A map showing the general location of the proposed subdivision,
its property boundaries and the direction of true north;
         (b)   The name and address of the developer;
         (c)   The proposed name and location of the subdivision;
         (d)   The approximate total acreage of the proposed subdivision;
         (e)   The tentative street and lot arrangement;
         (f)   Topographic contours from available data, such as U.S.
Geological Survey topographic maps;
         (g)   A lot and street layout indicating general scaled dimensions of
lots to the nearest foot;
         (h)   Evidence that, prior to the subdivision of any unsubdivided land
or the re- subdivision of any land within the corporate limits of the town or
prior to the annexation of any land to the town for the purpose of subdividing,
the developer shall be able to convey, transfer or assign to the town
adjudicated water rights of sufficient priority that the rights will yield
annually to the town a quantity of water equal to 1.5 times the water required
to serve the proposed development.
            1.   a.   In lieu of the conveyance of such water to the town, the
developer, with the consent of the Board of Trustees, shall be prepared to pay
to the town the money equivalent of such water.
               b.   The money equivalent shall be that amount determined by the
Board of Trustees as being equal in value to the water required herein.
            2.   a.   This evidence shall be provided by the developer to the
Planning and Zoning Commission at the sketch plan stage to prove that the water
rights described above are available for conveyance and sufficient in terms of
quality, quantity and dependability to satisfy the requirements of this
chapter.
               b.   Such evidence may include, but shall not necessarily be
limited to:
                  i.   Evidence of ownership or rights of acquisition of or use
of existing or proposed water rights;
                  ii.   Historic use and estimated yield of claimed water
rights;
                  iii.   Amenability of existing rights to a change in use; and
                  iv.   Evidence concerning the potability of the claimed water
rights.
         (I)   The sketch plan shall contain a description of the water
distribution system contemplated for the proposed development;
         (k)   The sketch plan shall contain a description of the sewer
collection system contemplated for the proposed development;
         (l)   A report and map showing all the significant natural and human-
made features on the site and within one-half mile of any portion of the site.
This report will include streams, canals, lakes, vegetation and geologic
characteristics of the area significantly affecting the land use and
determining the impact of such characteristics on the proposed subdivision.
Specific emphasis should be placed on those portions of the site located in
designated floodplain or undermined areas;
         (m)   A map showing soil types and their boundaries, as shown on soil
survey maps prepared by the U.S. Department of Agriculture, Soil Conservation
Service and also a table of all interpretations for the soil types shown on the
soil map prepared by the Soil Conservation Service. (Requests for these maps
and tables are made to the local Soil Conservation District; the subdivision
does not need to be in a soil conservation district to obtain the map and table
or have them prepared.);
         (n)   The scale of the sketch plan shall be not less than one inch
equals 200 feet. Some variation from this will be acceptable in the case of
large subdivisions provided the plans and design are clearly legible. The
sketch plan shall include the name of the subdivision, and block and lot
numbers. In the case of large subdivisions requiring more than two sheets at
such a scale, an area plan showing the total area on a single sheet and an
appropriate scale shall also be submitted; and
         (o)   Any other information the developer believes necessary to obtain
the informal opinion of the planning staff as to the proposed subdivision’s
compliance with the requirements of this chapter.
   (C)   Preliminary plat submission requirements. The preliminary plat
application shall contain the following:
      (1)   One copy of an application for approval of a preliminary plat and
all required supporting documents;
      (2)   Certified check payable to the town for filing fees as established
by the Town Clerk;
      (3)   A minimum of ten black on white or blue on white prints of the
preliminary plat and required supporting documents and one electronic copy;
      (4)   One additional set of materials is required when the property being
subdivided abuts a state highway;
      (5)   Summary statement of proposal including the following:
         (a)   Total acres to be subdivided;
         (b)   Total number of proposed dwelling units;
         (c)   Total number of square feet of nonresidential floor space;
         (d)   Total number of off-street parking spaces, including those
associated with single-family residential use;
         (e)   Estimated total number of gallons of water per day required;
         (f)   Estimated total number of gallons per day of sewage to be
treated; and
         (g)   Estimated construction cost and proposed method of financing of
the streets and related facilities, water distribution system, sewage
collection system, storm drainage facilities and such other facilities as may
be necessary to complete the development plan.
      (6)   List prepared by a licensed title or abstract company of all owners
of record of property adjacent to and within 300 feet of the area of the
proposed subdivision, including their addresses. This information will be
utilized for notification of meeting time and date;
      (7)   Such other preliminary information as may be required by the
Planning and Zoning Commission in order to adequately review the plat.
Preliminary data should be prepared in graphic form avoiding time consuming
final drafting procedures and detailed calculations; and
      (8)   The minimum data required for preliminary review are as follows:
         (a)   Location map: select a scale from one inch equals 500 feet to
one inch equals l,000 feet, sufficient to show the proposed internal and the
existing external road systems. Significant topographic features should be
shown;
         (b)   Preliminary street plans: one inch equals 50 feet with two foot
contours with alignment, graphic dimensions of right-of-way widths, curve radii
and tangent lengths. The proposed typical structural and geometric cross
sections, location, type and approximate size of appurtenant structures, such
as bridges, culverts, traffic control devices, lot lines and other design
features should all be shown;
         (c)   1.   Preliminary street profile preliminary profiles based upon
the contours and the sketched alignments should be provided showing graphic
grades, proposed lengths of vertical curves, limits of horizontal curves and
locations of bridges and major culverts.
            2.   Where streets are to be temporarily stubbed at site or plat
boundaries, the profiles should extend sufficiently beyond the boundary to
assure the feasibility of a future extension that can conform to standards;
         (d)   1.   Preliminary drainage plan and report: the preliminary plan
and report should contain the following minimum data. A basin contour map
defining the drainage basins and illustrating the existing drainage patterns
and concentration points with rough estimates of contributory acreage and
runoff amounts.
            2.   A sketch of the proposed land development showing the
consequent changes in the drainage patterns, concentration points and flooding
limits with estimates of acreage, runoff coefficients and runoff amounts for
the areas to be developed both now and the future within each basin.
            3.   A narrative of the proposed handling of the increased drainage
at the concentration points or of internal pattern changes;
         (e)   Preliminary design of utilities: preliminary plans and profiles
of the proposed water and sewer facilities should be provided showing the
location of all existing and/or proposed water and sewer and other utilities
relative to the development. Indicate the size, type and other pertinent data
for all existing and proposed utility improvements;
         (f)   1.   Preliminary landscaping plan: a preliminary landscaping
plan shall be submitted which shall show the approximate size and types of
proposed planting and the location of the planting and its spacing.
            2.   The plan shall also show the approximate location, type,
height, spacing and physical health of existing vegetation. A statement will be
required explaining the intent of the preliminary landscaping plan, as for
screening purposes and specimen tree plantings; and
         (g)   Letter from the fire district concerning fire protection and
fire flow requirements for the proposed subdivision.
   (D)   Preliminary plat drawing requirements.
      (1)   The accuracy and location of alignments, boundaries and monuments
shall be certified by a registered land surveyor licensed to practice in the
state. A poorly drawn or illegible plat is sufficient cause for its rejection.
      (2)   The following data shall be included as part of the preliminary
plat submission:
         (a)   Name of proposed subdivision;
         (b)   Location of subdivision as a part of some larger subdivision or
tract of land and by reference to permanent survey monuments with a tie to a
section corner or a quarter section corner;
         (c)   Names and addresses of the subdivider, the designer of the
subdivision and the engineer and surveyor both of whom shall be licensed by the
State Board of Registration for Professional Engineers and Land Surveyors;
         (d)   Date of preparation, map scale and north sign;
         (e)   Location by survey of streams, washes, canals, irrigation
laterals, private ditches, culverts, lakes or other water features, including
direction of flow, water level elevations and typical depths and location and
extent of areas subject to inundation by a 100-year storm;
         (f)   1.   A traverse map of the monumented perimeter of the proposed
subdivision along with all survey notes of subdivision perimeter and copies of
all monument records.
            2.   The traverse shall have an error of closure of not greater
than one part in 10,000. A survey tie to the state coordinate system or other
permanent marker established by the town is required if practical;
         (g)   1.   The existing topography of the proposed development site
shall be shown. A two-foot contour interval shall be used in areas where the
predominant ground slope is less than 5%. A five-foot contour interval shall be
used in areas where the predominant ground slope exceeds 5%.
            2.   In cases where predominately level topography occurs
throughout a subdivision a one-foot contour interval may be required. Elevation
data shall be referenced to U.S.G.S. datum.
            3.   The mapping accuracy shall be as specified by the American
Society of Photogrammetry;
         (h)   Lot and street layout;
         (I)   Scaled dimensions of all lots to nearest foot and the area of
each lot to the nearest square foot;
         (j)   Total acreage of entire proposed subdivision;
         (k)   Lots and blocks numbered consecutively;
         (l)   Location and principal dimensions and identification of all
existing and proposed public and private easements and rights-of-way;
         (m)   Existing and proposed street names;
         (n)   The plat shall be drawn to a scale of one inch equals 100 feet,
and shall indicate the basis of bearings, true north point, name of the
subdivision, name of municipality, township, range, section and quarter
section, block and lot number (of the property under consideration);
         (o)   An affidavit or valid title commitment that the applicant is the
owner or equitable owner or authorized by the owner, in writing, to make
application for the land proposed to be subdivided;
         (p)   1.   Location of sites to be reserved or dedicated for parks,
playgrounds, schools or other public uses except streets and utility easements.
The Planning Commission, upon consideration of town circulation and facilities
and the future requirements of the subdivision, shall require the dedication of
areas or sites of a character extent and location suitable for public use for
schools and parks; and
            2.   At the time of submission of the preliminary plan, the
developer shall submit an agreement for the dedication of land for public parks
and school sites according to one of the following alternatives. Said proposal
shall outline the conveyance of said lands or the payment of monies in lieu of
land subject to the following guidelines.
               a.   Six percent of the gross land area shall be dedicated to
the town for schools, parks, open space, police and fire stations or other
public uses.
               b.   At the option of the Board of Trustees, the developer
shall, in lieu of such conveyance of land, pay to the town in cash or terms
acceptable to the Board of Trustees, an amount equal to 6% of the fair market
value of the land as determined by appraisal on the date of the approval of the
subdivision. If the town and the developer fail to agree on the fair market
value of the land, the fair market value shall be fixed and established by a
qualified appraiser selected by the town and the developer.
               c.   At the discretion of the Board of Trustees, the subdivider
may provide a combination of divisions (D)(2)(p)2.a. and (D)(2)(p)2.b. above to
satisfy the public site requirements.
         (q)   Sites, if any, for multi-family dwellings, shopping centers,
community facilities, industrial or other uses, exclusive of single-family
dwellings;
         (r)   Location, function, ownership and manner of maintenance of
common open space not otherwise reserved or dedicated for public use.
Information other than location of these areas is to be provided in a separate
document;
         (s)   A separate location and vicinity map showing the following
information within a one-half mile distance of the perimeter of the proposed
plat:
            1.   Names and outlines of abutting subdivisions;
            2.   Related existing and planned streets and highway systems;
            3.   Subdivision boundary lines;
            4.   Zoning districts, taxing districts and other special
districts, if any;
            5.   Water courses; and
            6.   Significant vegetation patterns.
         (t)   The subdivision street layout showing the following: proposed
future street layout in dashed lines for any portion or parcel of the plat
which is not being subdivided at the present time.
   (E)   Final plat submission requirements. The final plat shall conform to
and include the following:
      (1)   The final plat submission shall conform in all major respects to
the preliminary plat as previously reviewed and approved by the Planning
Commission and shall incorporate all modifications required in its review. The
Planning Commission, however, may approve a final plat which has been modified
to reflect improvements in design or changes which have occurred in its natural
surroundings and environment since the time of the preliminary plat review and
approval;
      (2)   (a)   A final plat may be submitted in sections or filings covering
representative and reasonable portions of the subdivision tract.
         (b)   In such cases, submission shall include a map, indicating the
sections designated for the entire tract, and each sheet numbered accordingly,
including title, legend, match lines and other appropriate information. Where
an entire parcel is not subdivided, the subdivider must indicate his or her
intended plans for disposition of the remainder of the parcel;
      (3)   One copy of the application form for review of a final plat;
      (4)   Three black on white or blue on white prints of the final plat;
      (5)   Three copies of the engineering plans and all required supplemental
material;
      (6)   The original reproducible drawing of the final plat prepared in
accordance with the requirements of this chapter. Submit after final approval
of Town Board within seven days;
      (7)   A certified check payable to the town review and filing fees for a
final plat as established by the town;
      (8)   (a)   All dedications, reservations or agreements concerning parks,
school sites and access roads are subject to Town Board approval.
         (b)   Where such action involves another public agency, a letter of
clearance from that agency shall accompany the final plat application;
      (9)   (a)   A signed warranty deed conveying 6% of such land designated
for public use or, at the discretion of the Board of Trustees, a certified
check for an amount as may have been agreed to at the time the preliminary plat
was approved.
         (b)   The deed shall be accompanied by a title insurance policy or
other evidence that the land is free and clear of all taxes, liens or other
encumbrances;
      (10)   In the case of a planned unit development, an official signed deed
dedicating or reserving certain tracts or the development rights to such tracts
for local use as may have been agreed to at the time the preliminary plat was
approved. The deed shall be accompanied by a title insurance policy or other
evidence that the land is free and clear of all taxes, liens or other
encumbrances;
      (11)   An official signed document conveying the water rights required by
this chapter to the town, or, at the discretion of the Board of Trustees, a
certified check for an amount as may have been agreed to at the time the
preliminary plat was approved. The document shall be accompanied by a title
insurance policy or other evidence that the water is free and clear of all
taxes, liens or other encumbrances;
      (12)   A bond acceptable to the town, or in the alternative, a letter of
credit or a certified or suitable check equal to the total estimated
construction cost of all required subdivision improvements not yet completed at
the time of application for final plat approval. Such improvements shall
include, but not necessarily be limited to, streets; roads; paving; curb and
gutter; sidewalks; storm sewers; sanitary sewers, including collectors and
outfall lines; water distribution and transmission lines; fire hydrants; street
lights; street signs; traffic control devices; survey monuments; culverts;
bridges; and landscaping features. Bonds or letters of credit may be negotiated
based on development phases of the subdivision;
      (13)   An executed copy of the subdivision improvements agreement;
      (14)   An exact copy of a certificate of a title insurance company or
abstract of title suitably certified or certificate of title or title opinion
submitted by an attorney which shall set forth the names of all owners of
property included in the plat and shall include a list of all mortgages,
judgments, liens, easements, contracts and agreements of record, which shall
affect the property covered by such plats. If the title opinion or commitment
discloses any of the above, then, at the option of the Planning Commission, the
holders or owners of such mortgages, judgments, liens, easements, contracts or
agreements shall be required to join in and approve the application before the
plat shall be acted upon by the Planning Commission;
      (15)   (a)   Where a homeowners association or other entity is to be used
for the administration and maintenance of private roads or open space and
recreational facilities, a binding and perpetual agreement in regard to
maintenance and access control shall be submitted with the final plat.
         (b)   Such agreement shall be in a form acceptable to the Town
Attorney and the Planning Commission and shall include provisions for:
            1.   Adequate funding and self-enforcement by the homeowners
association of the terms contained in the agreement;
            2.   Continuous safety inspections and immediate follow-up
maintenance to correct unsafe conditions;
            3.   Receiving and processing complaints by authorized users of the
private roads or open space and recreational facilities; and
            4.   Requiring written permission from the Board of Trustees before
the association can be dissolved.
      (16)   Where a portion of an existing easement is contiguous to a
proposed easement for right-of-way of a new subdivision, proof of the
dedication of the existing easement or right-of-way acceptable to the Town
Planning Commission must be submitted;
      (17)   When a new street will intersect with a state highway, a copy of
the state highway permit shall be submitted;
      (18)   If a plat is revised, a copy of the old plat shall be provided for
comparison purposes;
      (19)   A summary statement shall be submitted which shall include the
following:
         (a)   Total development area;
         (b)   Total number of proposed dwelling units;
         (c)   Estimated total number of gallons per day of water system
requirements;
         (d)   Estimated total number of gallons per day of sewage to be
treated; and
         (e)   1.   Estimated construction cost and proposed method of
financing of the streets and related facilities, water distribution system,
sewage collection system, floodplain protection, storm drainage facilities and
such other facilities as may be necessary.
            2.   If improvements are not to be completed prior to approval of
the final plat, the cost estimates included in this statement shall be
identical to those included in the improvement agreement.
      (20)   Certification of inclusion of the land represented by the final
plat in any municipal or quasi-municipal district(s) formed for the purpose of
providing sanitary sewer service and which has jurisdiction in the area
platted;
      (21)   Certification from any special district having jurisdiction that
all applicable fees have been paid relative to the final plat including sewer
connection fees and/or plant investment fees or that an agreement has been
executed acceptable to the District for such payment;
      (22)   A certified or suitable check payable to the town for the
applicable water tap fees and/or plant investment fees represented by the area
being platted. In the alternative, the developer shall submit a contract for
payment of said fees in a manner and form acceptable to the town; and
      (23)   (a)   No subdivision shall be approved until such data, surveys,
analysis, studies, plans and designs have been submitted, reviewed and found to
meet all sound planning and engineering requirements of the town and the
conditions contained in these subdivision regulations and all other applicable
ordinances of the town.
         (b)   The minimum data required for final plat review are as follows:
            1.   Street construction plans and profiles.
               a.   The typical street geometric and structural cross section
is to be shown on each plan sheet. The plan must show right-of-way lines and
widths, street name, lot lines, tangent lengths and bearings, curve radii,
delta angles, curve lengths, chord lengths, intersections, structures, skew
angles, curb lines, cross pans, traffic control devices (islands, striping,
signs and the like), drive cuts, curb returns and radii and all other features
to enable construction in accordance with approved standards. Scale one inch
equals 50 feet.
               b.   The profiles are to include ground lines, grade lines,
vertical curves, curve lengths, calculated grades, elevations, intersections
and other critical points, structures and all other features required to enable
construction in accordance with approved standards.
                  i.   The scale to be one inch equals 50 inches horizontal and
one inch equals one foot to one inch equals five feet vertical in flat and
rolling terrain.
                  ii.   The horizontal to vertical distortion is to be chosen
to best depict the critical elevation aspects of the design.
                  iii.   Where centerline grades at intersections are steep,
curb return profiles are to be submitted showing necessary modifications to
eliminate unsightly bumps or water retaining depressions that many times
result.
               c.   Sufficient data should be given to construct major
structures and road appurtenances, such as bridges, large culverts, curbs,
drives, walks, cross pans and the like. Detail should include orientation, line
and grade, cross sections, dimensions, reinforcement schedules, materials,
quality, specifications and the like.
               d.   i.   A structural section design report shall be submitted
if a section other than the town standard structure section is to be used.
                  ii.   The design criteria set forth in the street standards
and specifications ordinance of the town provided such ordinance exists, shall
be used in the preparation of the final street construction plans and profiles.
            2.   Final drainage plans and reports.
               a.   Plans and specifications based upon the approved
preliminary plat and associated reports are to be submitted detailing design of
the final storm drainage system, including construction details and alignment
of storm sewers, catch basins, manholes, ditches, slope protection, dams,
energy dissipators and the like.
               b.   Flow line profiles and layout elevations shall be, at
minimum, 100-foot stations, and natural ground elevations shown to indicate any
significant irregularities for all proposed conduits, channels, structures and
the like.
               c.   Cross-sections of each water carrier shall be shown showing
high water elevations and adjacent features which may be affected thereby.
               d.   i.   Construction details of curb, curb and gutter, valley
gutter, driveway apron and ditch culvert shall be included.
                  ii.   Written approvals as may be required from other
agencies or parties that may be affected by the drainage proposal shall also be
submitted.
               e.   The drainage report shall include the supporting
calculations for runoffs, times of concentration and flow capacity with all
assumptions clearly stated and with proper justification when needed or
requested.
               f.   The final drainage plan shall be prepared in conformance
with the design criteria set forth in the street standards and specifications
ordinance of the town, provided such exists.
            3.   Final utility plans and profiles.
               a.   i.   Plans and specifications based upon the approved
preliminary plat and associated reports are to be submitted detailing the
design of final water, sanitary sewer, natural gas, telephone, electric and
cable television facilities to be installed in the area included in the final
plat.
                  ii.   In addition, final design is required of any off-site
facilities related to the above described utilities which may be considered an
integral part of the utilities plan for the subdivision.
               b.   Water utility facilities design shall conform to the
criteria set forth in the water system design and construction standards
ordinance of the town, provided such ordinance exists.
               c.   Sewer utility facilities design shall conform to the
criteria set forth in the Sewer System Design and Construction Standards
adopted by the town or any special district of competent jurisdiction.
   (F)   Final plat drawing requirements.
      (1)   (a)   The final plat shall be prepared and certification made as to
its accuracy by a registered land surveyor licensed to practice in the state.
         (b)   A poorly drawn or illegible plat is sufficient cause for its
rejection.
      (2)   The following will be required of final plats.
         (a)   Said plat shall be in the form of a black India inked Mylar that
is suitable for recording in the county and capable of reproducing clear and
sharp reproductions of all details, signatures and notary seals.
         (b)   No plats using sepia ink or pencil or containing stick-ons will
be accepted.
         (c)   All signatures on the plat are to be in black permanent ink.
         (d)   1.   The plat sheet shall have outer dimensions of 24 inches by
36 inches.
            2.   The plat drawing will be contained within a space defined by a
one and one-half inch margin from the left sheet edge and a one-half inch
margin from the other three sheet edges.
         (e)   Applicants are encouraged to use more than one sheet to avoid
the crowding of information on one sheet. Sheets are to be designated as sheet
x of y sheets.
         (f)   The scale of the plat drawing shall be 100 foot equals one-inch.
Other scales may be approved by the Administrator.
      (3)   (a)   Good draftsmanship shall be required in order for all of the
following information to be shown accurately and legibly.
         (b)   It shall contain the following:
            1.   Title, scale, north sign and date;
            2.   a.   Primary survey control points, monuments, descriptions
and ties, dimensions, angles, bearings and similar data shall be shown on the
plat as may be needed to determine boundary and lot closures.
               b.   Primary control points and monuments shall be as specified
by state law and shall actually exit in the field before final plat approval.
               c.   Road intersections and ends shall be suitably monumented
and ties filed with the Town Clerk for engineering review prior to acceptance
for maintenance;
            3.   Tract boundary lines, rights-of-way lines of streets,
easements and other rights-of-way, and property lines of residential lots and
other sites, with accurate dimensions, bearings or angles and radii, arcs or
chords and central angles of all curves;
            4.   Name and right-of-way width of each street or other rights-of-
way;
            5.   Location, dimensions and purpose of any easements;
            6.   Number to identify each lot or site and each block;
            7.   Location and description of monuments;
            8.   Certificate of acceptance, as outlined below:
 
NOTICE
Public Notice is hereby given that acceptance of this platted subdivision by the
Town of Wiggins does not constitute an acceptance of the roads and rights-of-way
reflected hereon for maintenance by said Town.
Until such roads and rights-of-way meet Town Road Specifications and are
specifically accepted by this Town by recording with the Clerk of this Town an
official “acceptance”, the maintenance, construction, and all other matters
pertaining opposed to be installed in such roads have been constructed and the
roads and rights-of-way completed thereafter to Town standards.
Notice is further given that no more than ten percent (10%) of the building
occupancy certificates will be issued by officials of this Town for improvements
of any nature on any property reflected on this platted subdivision until such
time as the “acceptance” as herein described has been filed for record with the
Clerk of this Town.
 
            9.   Excepted parcels shall be marked “Not included in this
subdivision” and the boundary completely indicated by bearings and distances. A
tie shall be provided to indicate the relationship of such a parcel to the area
platted;
            10.   All land within the boundaries of the plat shall be accounted
for either as lots, walkways, streets, alleys or excepted parcels;
            11.   i. Parcels not contiguous shall not be included in one plat,
nor shall more than one plat be made on the same sheet.
   ii.   Contiguous parcels owned by different parties may be embraced in one
plat; provided that all owners join in the dedication and acknowledgment;
            12.   Lengths shall be shown to hundredths of a foot, and angles
and bearings shall be shown to seconds of arc;
            13.   Block and lot permanent reference points shall be set; and
            14.   a.   The surveyor preparing the plat shall certify on the
plat that it conforms to these regulations and to all applicable state laws and
that the monuments described in it have been placed as described.
               b.   He or she shall affix his or her name and seal.
(Ord. 2-98, passed 4-22-1998; Ord. 14-2017, passed 10-11-2017; Ord. 09-2021,
passed 10-27-2021)
§ 153.179 SITE PLAN SUBMISSION REQUIREMENTS.
   The site plan shall include a plan drawn to scale with the following
information:
   (A)   Topography of the land to be developed with a minimum five-foot
contour interval, but two-foot intervals are encouraged;
   (B)   Proposed access to the existing street system and proposed
improvements to the street system including driveway access points and widths;
   (C)   Existing development on the property and improvements to be made to
the property, including new buildings, landscaping, parking and proposed sign
locations;
   (D)   The location of any known natural hazard which may affect the
property;
   (E)   Detailed architectural drawings showing the color, exterior materials,
screening of outside storage areas, lighting fixtures and buffering or
screening of mechanical equipment; and
   (F)   Signed forms showing recommendations on placement of all new utility
lines that all utility companies have been contracted for. (See §
153.181.)
(Ord. 2-98, passed 4-22-1998; Ord. 14-2017, passed 10-11-2017)
§ 153.180 SIGN PERMIT SUBMISSION REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Sign permit submission requirements include the following:
      (1)   Name, address and telephone number of the applicant;
      (2)   A map showing the location of the building, structure or lot to
which the sign is to be attached or erected, and showing the position of the
sign in relation to nearby buildings and thoroughfares; such a map must be to
scale;
      (3)   A plan showing design of sign, materials used and method of
construction and means of attachment to the building or the ground; such plans
must be to scale;
      (4)   Name of person, firm, corporation or association erecting, altering
or moving said sign;
      (5)   Written consent of the owner of the land on which the sign is be
erected, altered or relocated;
      (6)   Any electrical or building permit required and issued for said sign
under town ordinances; and
      (7)   Any other information as the Building Inspector shall require in
order to show full compliance with this and all other applicable laws of the
town.
   (B)   Intent. The intent of this section is to provide standards for the
regulation of signs in order to protect property values; create and attractive
business climate; enhance and protect the physical appearance of residential,
commercial and industrial areas; encourage well-designed signs that are
compatible with their surroundings; and, in general, to promote a desirable
community environment. These regulations are further intended to reduce
potential traffic hazards from signs that are distracting and obstructing
drivers’ vision.
   (C)   Signs permitted. Signs shall be permitted in the various zoning
districts as accessory uses in accordance with the regulations contained in
this chapter.
   (D)   General regulations. The following regulations shall apply to all
signs in all zoning districts.
      (1)   Signs shall not be illuminated by or contain rotating, pulsating or
oscillating beacons of light. Signs which simulate or resemble visual signals
of authorized emergency vehicles and authorized service vehicles, as defined by
the Model Traffic Code, are prohibited.
      (2)   Signs contributing to confusion of traffic control devices or which
hide or interfere with the effectiveness of such devices are prohibited.
      (3)   Unpainted signs, broken signs and signs on vacated buildings or
property shall be removed from the premises or repaired or renovated by the
owners of the premises.
      (4)   No sign shall be erected or maintained on or over any land or
public right-of-way belonging to the town without the permission of the Town
Board.
      (5)   Signs along highways, as defined in C.R.S. § 43-2-101(1), and signs
along the interstate system of highways, as defined in C.R.S. § 32-2-101(2),
are prohibited unless such signs conform with all the requirements of the
Outdoor Advertising Act, C.R.S. Title 43, Article 1, Part 4, as amended, any
rules and regulations promulgated by the State Department of Highways, pursuant
thereto and any applicable federal law, rules and regulations.
      (6)   On-premises parking and traffic directional signs shall not exceed
four feet in height and six square feet in area.
      (7)   Roof signs which project above the highest point of the building
shall be permitted.
   (E)   Regulations in residential districts. The following types of signs
shall be permitted in residential districts, including PHPS and R districts:
      (1)   No more than one identification sign per detached single-family or
two-family dwelling; provided such sign does not exceed three square feet and
has no illumination except for identification of house numbers;
      (2)   No more than one identification sign per multi-family dwelling not
to exceed two square feet in area, and more than one identification sign per
multi-family building not to exceed two square feet in area. Identification
signs shall have indirect illumination only;
      (3)   No more than one low profile sign per main street entrance to a
subdivision or mobile home park indicating the name of the subdivision or
mobile home park; provided such sign does not exceed 50 square feet in area,
ten feet in height and has indirect illumination only;
      (4)   No more than one identification sign per institutional or quasi-
public use; provided such sign does not exceed 50 square feet in area, eight
feet in height and has indirect illumination only; and
      (5)   (a)   The Board of Trustees may approve a sign plan and permit for
an identification sign for a business establishment within a Residential (R)
Zone District; provided such sign does not exceed 75 square feet in area and 12
feet in height. Before approving or denying such a plan and permit, a public
hearing shall be held on the proposal, notice of which, at least 15 days prior
to the hearing date, shall be mailed, by regular mail, to the record owners of
all properties adjacent to the property for which the sign is proposed, and
shall be published in an official paper or paper of general circulation in the
town.
         (b)   In determining whether to approve or deny such a plan and
permit, the Board of Trustees shall consider, in addition to the other criteria
set forth in this section, the following:
            1.   If the sign is illuminated, the hours of illumination;
            2.   The location of sign in relation to residences;
            3.   The measures taken to screen the sign, including measures
taken to prevent glare from illuminated signs onto adjacent public rights-of-
way and adjacent properties;
            4.   The number of signs within the area;
            5.   Whether the external effects of the proposed sign are
controlled, considering compatibility of land use and structures; the hours and
method of illumination; sign materials; and sign location in relation to
traffic, surrounding and adjacent uses and the intended purpose of the sign;
and
            6.   Such other factors deemed to effect health, welfare, safety
and convenience.
         (c)   In considering a sign plan and permit, the Board of Trustees
shall consider and may impose modifications or conditions to the extent such
modifications or conditions are necessary to ensure compliance with the
criteria of this division (K)(5). Conditions may address, by way of
illustration and not limitation, sign siting, sign materials and limitations on
hours of illumination.
   (F)   Regulations in commercial and industrial districts. The following
types of signs shall be permitted in commercial and industrial districts:
      (1)   Such signs as are permitted in residential uses;
      (2)   Flush wall signs, projecting wall signs or window signs; provided
such signs do not exceed one square foot of area per lineal foot of exterior
wall. The sign or signs shall be placed on the side of the building or
structure from which it draws its allowed square footage;
      (3)   No more than one low profile sign per business or industrial
establishment shall be allowed; provided such sign does not exceed six feet in
height, 50 square feet in area and shall be setback a minimum of three feet
from any property line;
      (4)   (a)   No more than one freestanding sign not to exceed 150 square
feet in area shall be permitted for each legal lot of record; except when
development is located on more than one legal lot, but constitutes a commercial
or industrial complex through common use arrangements, only one freestanding
sign shall be permitted for the complex.
         (b)   However, in centers with three or more acres, one additional
freestanding sign not to exceed 150 square feet in area shall be allowed for
each street frontage exceeding 600 lineal feet in length. All freestanding
signs shall not exceed 30 feet in height and shall be setback a minimum of ten
feet from any property line;
      (5)   The maximum aggregate sign area per business or industrial
establishment shall not exceed 300 square feet; and
      (6)   Signs containing flashing, blinking, chasing or other animation
effects are permitted in commercial and industrial districts; provided that
such signs are not within 200 feet of a residential district measuring
perpendicular thereto and visible from such district.
   (G)   Temporary signs. Temporary signs in all zoning districts shall be
subject to the following specific requirements:
      (1)   Real estate signs. Non-illuminated signs which advertise for sale,
rental or lease the particular building or property upon which said signs are
located. Real estate signs shall not be more than five square feet in area for
residential property and 20 square feet in area for commercial and industrial
property. Signs shall be removed after the sale or lease of the building or
property;
      (2)   Construction signs. Non-illuminated signs advertising the
development, construction or other improvements on a property. Each sign shall
not exceed 50 square feet in area with no more than a total of two such signs
permitted on any one parcel. Signs shall be removed after issuance of a
certificate of occupancy;
      (3)   Subdivision directional signs. Non-illuminated signs informing the
public as to routes or changes in direction of travel in order to arrive at a
subdivision of similar development. No more than one sign per parcel not to
exceed 20 square feet in area. Signs shall be removed after the sale or lease
of the lots or buildings;
      (4)   Political signs. Non-illuminated signs pertaining to a national,
state or local election. No more than one sign per parcel not to exceed six
square feet in area for residentially zoned lots and 32 square feet for
commercially or industrially zoned lots. Signs shall be removed within ten days
after the election for which the signs pertain;
      (5)   Garage sale signs. No more than one sign per street may be used to
advertise a garage sale, provided such sign does not exceed three square feet
in area and is used only during the duration of the garage sale; and
      (6)   Banners.
         (a)   Banners not exceeding 100 square feet in area shall be allowed
for a maximum period of 120 days per calendar year.
         (b)   Banners shall be kept in good repair and remain firmly attached
to the building or structure.
   (H)   Off-premises sign. The following regulations shall apply to off-
premises signs.
      (1)   Off-premises signs shall be permitted only those areas zoned
commercial and industrial.
      (2)   Off-premises signs shall not exceed 500 square feet in area per
sign.
      (3)   Off-premises signs shall not exceed the maximum structural height
requirement of the zoning district in which the off-premises sign is to be
located.
      (4)   Off-premises signs shall be spaced apart no closer than 1,000 feet.
   (I)   Sign plan required.
      (1)   (a)   Prior to displaying, erecting, relocating or altering any
sign, a sign plan shall be submitted to and approved by the Zoning
Administrator under the regulations set forth in this section.
         (b)   The sign plan shall include as a minimum the following
information:
            1.   Building locations and dimensions;
            2.   Size, height and location of existing and proposed signs;
            3.   Existing zoning; and
            4.   Name, address and telephone number of applicant and sign
installer.
      (2)   The following types of signs shall not require a sign plan:
         (a)   Temporary signs;
         (b)   Identification signs;
         (c)   Parking and traffic directional signs;
         (d)   Public signs authorized for a public purpose by any governmental
law, statute or ordinance;
         (e)   Customer information signs which identify, as a courtesy to
customers, items such as “credit card accepted”, “menus” or “prices”;
         (f)   Change of copy or message on legally established signs; and
         (g)   Hand-held signs.
(Ord. 2-98, passed 4-22-1998; Ord. 4-08, passed 7-9-2008)
§ 153.181 SUPPLEMENTAL STANDARDS FOR UTILITIES.
   (A)   Applicability. This section is applicable to all new construction and
renovations that occur after this section is adopted.
   (B)   General.
      (1)   All new utility service lines will be underground.
      (2)   All customer service lines must be a minimum of 30 inches deep in
the public right-of-way.
      (3)   All lines and cables crossing drainage ditches, culverts or street
crossings shall be encased in a conduit type material and buried from right-of-
way to right-of-way to the minimum depth from the lowest point of such ditch,
culvert or street crossing.
   (C)   Telephone and cable TV.
      (1)   Telephone and cable TV lines shall be on the west side of the alley
at a point three feet from the property line.
      (2)   On east/west streets, cable shall be located on the south side of
the street at a point 20 feet from the property line. On north/south streets,
cable shall be located on the east side of the street at a point 20 feet from
the property line. Cable shall be buried underground at least 36 inches in
depth.
   (D)   Electric (REA). Electric service lines shall be on the east side of
the alley at a point three feet from the property line. On east/west streets,
lines shall be located on the north side of the street at a point 20 feet from
the property line. On north/south streets, lines shall be located on the west
side of the street at a point 20 feet from the property line. All lines shall
be buried underground at least 42 inches in depth.
   (E)   Natural gas (public service). Natural gas service on east/west streets
shall be located on the south side of the street at a point 15 feet from the
property line. On north/south streets, lines shall be located on the east side
of the street at a point 15 feet from the property line. Lines shall be buried
underground at least 36 inches in depth.
   (F)   Water. Water lines on east/west streets lines shall located on the
north side of the street at a point 15 feet from the property line. On north/
south streets, lines shall be located on the west side of the street at a point
15 feet from the property line. All lines shall be buried underground at least
60 inches in depth. All taps stubbed in at the time of construction shall be
centered on the front property line of the lot at a minimum depth of 60 inches
in depth.
   (G)   Sewer. Sewer lines shall be centered in the alley at a depth and grade
approved by the Zoning Administrator. All taps stubbed in at the time of
construction shall be ten feet north of the south property line.
   (H)   Responsibility. New service lines installed after the adoption of this
chapter which are found not in conformance with this section will be replaced
or brought into compliance and the cost will be borne by the utility company
doing the installation. New service lines installed in conformance but due to
grading, excavating or any other means of cover removal shall not be deemed not
in conformance.
   (I)   Variations. Any variation from the above standards must be approved by
the Zoning Administrator in writing.
   (J)   New construction costs. All new construction costs of utility lines
shall be the responsibility of the developer.
   (K)   Fees. All professional fees shall be the responsibility of the
developer.
(Ord. 2-98, passed 4-22-1998)
§ 153.182 RECREATIONAL VEHICLE PARK DEVELOPMENT GUIDELINES.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of this section is to ensure that recreational
vehicle parks are located, operated and occupied in a manner that furthers the
health, safety, and general welfare of the town, its residents, and the
occupants of recreational vehicle parks.
   (B)   General.
      (1)   RV parks are intended to provide commercial rental parking spaces
and sites for recreational vehicles (RVs), on a temporary basis, ranging from
short overnight stops to longer destination type stays.
      (2)   RV park owners and RV park operators are responsible for ensuring
compliance with the provisions of this section and all federal, state, and
local laws and regulations.
   (C)   Application of lodging tax and town licenses.
      (1)   The town's lodging occupation tax shall apply to the furnishing of
lodging in a recreational vehicle park for periods of less than one month or 30
consecutive days as provided in
Chapter 33 of the Wiggins Municipal Code as amended.
      (2)   The owner of an approved RV park shall apply for and obtain a town
business license in connection with the operation of the RV park.
   (D)   Operational standards.
      (1)   Occupation requirement. All RVs within the RV park must be occupied
by at least one person.
      (2)   Prohibited. Tents are not allowed within the RV park.
      (3)   Manager. RV parks shall have an on-site manager unless alternative
security measures have been approved by the town.
      (4)   Structural additions. Temporary structures such as canvas awnings,
screened enclosures, or platforms, which are normal camping equipment, may be
erected but must be removed when the rental space is vacated. No other
structural additions shall be built onto or become a part of any RV rental
space.
      (5)   Storage sheds, buildings and storage bins. RV park management may
provide one storage bin to be permanently placed at each RV pad. Storage bins
may not exceed five feet in height, four feet deep, and six feet wide. No
additional storage sheds or structures shall be installed or added.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/3a00a3986e8a491693f50ebbbcbca353d0679342/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1161.gif]
 
      (6)    Fires. Fires shall be made only in stoves, barbeque grills and or
equipment intended for such purposes that are placed in safe and convenient
locations where they will not constitute fire hazards to vegetation,
undergrowth, trees and RVs. No open fires are allowed.
   (E)    Development standards.
      (1)    Minimum park area. The minimum size of an RV park shall be two
acres.
      (2)   Rental space size.
         (a)   Rental space includes the hard surfaced pad designated for the
RV units and the recreational area attached to each pad.
         (b)   Minimum rental space size shall be 25 feet wide by 20 feet long.
The area required for access roads, off-street parking, service buildings,
recreation areas, office, and similar RV park needs shall not be included for
purposes of determining minimum rental space area.
         (c)   Each RV rental pad shall be equipped with a surfaced area of not
less than 15 feet wide by 20 feet long. Surfacing shall consist of gravel,
asphalt, or concrete. Where gravel surfacing is used, the design of the gravel
pad shall be approved by the Town Manager, or his/her designee, and shall be
designed to maintain proper drainage and to minimize dust. Each RV unit shall
be parked entirely on the surfaced area so that no part thereof obstructs any
roadway or walkway within the RV park.
      (4)   Streets, pedestrian, walkways, and sidewalks.
         (a)   Streets or roadways and parking areas within the RV park shall
be designed to provide safe and convenient access to all spaces and to
facilities for common use by park occupants, and shall be constructed and
maintained to allow free movement of emergency and service vehicles at all
times, and shall be graded to drain, and surfaced with gravel, asphalt, or
concrete.
         (b)   There shall be a pedestrian walkway or pathway every tenth RV
rental space that shall be a minimum of five feet wide and surfaced with
gravel, asphalt, or concrete.
         (c)   All streets, roadways, parking areas, sidewalks, and pedestrian
walkways within the RV park shall be owned, maintained, repaired, and replaced
by the RV park owner in compliance with the Wiggins Municipal Code.
      (5)   Street signs, traffic signs, and striping. The developer shall
install, at the developer's expense, striping, street name signs, stop signs,
speed limit signs and other signs within the RV park. Signs and striping shall
be installed in a manner reasonably approved by the town in a site plan in
accordance with the Model Traffic Code and Land Development Codes, as amended,
and any other applicable legal requirements. All internal signs and striping
shall be owned, maintained, repaired and replaced by the park owner.
Enforcement of speed limits within the RV park shall be the responsibility of
the park owner.
      (6)   Service facilities and offices.
         (a)   All RV parks shall be provided with one or more service
buildings equipped with flush toilets, lavatories, showers and laundry
facilities meeting minimum State Health Department standards. Such facilities
shall be conveniently located at a distance of not more than 300 feet from any
RV served. Such facilities shall be constructed in accordance with applicable
building codes and shall be kept in a clean and sanitary condition, and
plumbing fixtures shall be maintained in good working order.
         (b)   All RV parks shall provide one office structure.
         (c)   All facilities shall be adequately lighted at all times of the
day and night and shall be well ventilated. Portable fire extinguishers of a
type approved by the adopted Fire Code shall be kept in the service buildings
and at all locations designated by the Wiggins Rural Fire Protection District,
and shall be maintained in operating condition.
         (d)   Each facility shall comply with minimum parking standards set by
the Wiggins Municipal Code.
      (7)   Sanitary disposal stations.
         (a)   Each RV park shall contain at least one sanitary disposal
station for the purpose of removing and disposing of wastes from holding tanks
in a clean, efficient and convenient manner.
         (b)   Each sanitary station shall consist of a drainage basin
constructed of impervious material, containing a disposal hatch and self-
closing cover, and related washing facilities.
         (c)   The disposal hatch of sanitary station units shall be connected
to the town's wastewater disposal system. Related facilities required to wash
holding tanks and the general area of the sanitary station shall be connected
to the RV park water supply system.
         (d)   Each sanitary station shall have a signs posted that may be
required in accordance with the Land Development Code, the State Department of
Health, and any other applicable legal requirements, as amended for safety
measures.
         (e)   Sanitary stations shall be approved by the State Department of
Health.
      (8)   Water lines and taps.
         (a)   All utilities shall be placed underground.
         (b)   The developer shall obtain the appropriate water tap from the
town at the current rate.
         (c)   All water mains, lines, and appurtenances thereto shall be
constructed and installed by the developer, at the minimum, pursuant to town
approved plans and specifications and in compliance with the Town Public Works
Department and the State Health Department.
         (d)   Each RV rental space must be equipped with a minimum of one
water outlets, to provide connection for the recreational vehicle. A two-way
valve may be implemented to allow garden hose usage.
         (e)   The RV park and each RV rental space must be equipped with a
backflow prevention device in accordance with town or State of Colorado
requirements. Each appurtenance must be installed and inspected as per town and
state regulations.
      (9)   Sewer lines and taps.
         (a)   All utilities shall be placed underground.
         (b)   The developer shall be required to obtain the appropriate sewer
taps from the town at the current rate.
         (c)   All sewer mains, lines, and appurtenances thereto shall be
constructed and installed by the developer, at the minimum, pursuant to town
approved plans and specifications and in compliance with the State Health
Department.
         (d)   All RV rental spaces shall be equipped with a hookup to a public
wastewater system by way of a branch line and riser pipe at least four inches
inside diameter. The riser pipe shall be capped with a water-tight cap or plug
when not in use. Sanitary wastewater systems shall be installed in compliance
with the State Health Department standards and town rules and regulations.
      (10)   Other utilities.
         (a)   Electricity.
            1.   All electrical lines must be placed underground.
            2.   All RV rental spaces shall be equipped with an electrical
outlet supplying at least 110/120 volts, installed in accordance with
applicable adopted electrical codes.
         (b)   Propane tanks.
            1.   One 100-pound tank and one 20-pound bottle shall be allowed at
any one RV rental space for the purpose of providing heat and propane gas for
grilling purposes.
            2.   Extra propane tanks or bottles shall not be stored on the RV
rental spaces.
            3.   Propane storage tanks larger than the sizes set forth above
shall not be permitted within the RV park.
      (11)   Refuse disposal.
         (a)   The storage, collection and disposal of refuse shall be
performed so as to minimize accidents, fire hazards, air pollution, odors,
insects, rodents or other nuisance conditions.
         (b)   All refuse shall be stored in durable, washable and nonabsorbent
metal or plastic containers with tight-fitting lids. Such containers shall be
provided at the rate of at least one 30 gallon container, secured in a rack or
holder or chained to a post, for each RV rental space, or an equivalent storage
capacity in enclosed centralized storage facilities. Adequate refuse collection
and removal shall be the responsibility of the park owner.
         (c)     Centralized refuse storage facilities shall be enclosed on
three sides with a front gate to contain the yard dumpsters.[https://
export.amlegal.com/media/3a00a3986e8a491693f50ebbbcbca353d0679342/IMAGES/0-0-0-
1163.gif]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/3a00a3986e8a491693f50ebbbcbca353d0679342/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1165.gif]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/3a00a3986e8a491693f50ebbbcbca353d0679342/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1167.gif]
 
       (12)   Landscaping. A landscape plan, to be approved by the Town
Manager, or his/her designee, shall be required for all RV parks. Landscaping
shall be designed to perform the following functions:
          (a)   Screen the RV park visually and audibly from adjacent
properties as completely as possible. RV park shall be screened by means of
fences or walls or by means of hedges or other landscaping approved during the
special review use process;
         (b)   Property lines adjacent to a street shall maintain line of site
into the RV park. Fences shall be see-through and not higher than four feet in
height.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/3a00a3986e8a491693f50ebbbcbca353d0679342/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1169.gif]
 
         (c)    Provide an attractive entrance and street frontage;
         (d)   Provide dust and erosion control; provide a neat, attractive,
and aesthetically pleasing appearance.
      (13)   Open space. Open space for common areas, playgrounds and other
recreational uses shall be provided at the rate of at least 6% of the gross
area of the RV park, and shall be of sufficient size and distribution as to be
a functional part of the entire park. Open space shall not include any area
designated as a roadway, RV space, storage area, laundry area, swimming pool,
yard area surrounding the caretaker's or manager's residence, or any area
required for setbacks. This may include a playground, dog park, or picnic/
shelter area. Open space will be maintained by the RV park owner and may be
restricted to use by RV park residents only.
      (14)   Fire protection. A fire protection plan shall be submitted to be
reviewed by the local fire protection agency and such agency shall approve,
such plan prior to the beginning of any site development. The local fire
official may require any and all improvements deemed necessary to meet the
International Fire Code or other adopted code and provide adequate fire safety
measures for the property.
      (15)   Swimming pools. Swimming pools and natural swimming areas shall be
operated, maintained and used in compliance with recommendations and
requirements of the Colorado Department of Health's Regulations, Town Municipal
Codes, and standards governing swimming pools and swimming areas.
      (16)   Other improvements.
         (a)   Street/roadway lights. The total cost of street light
installation shall be the developer's obligation. Developer shall cause, at its
own expense, the provider of electric and power service to install all required
street lighting pursuant to town approved plans and specifications. Said street
lights shall be installed concurrently with the streets on which they are
located and within the development to provide adequate lighting to the park's
tenants.
         (b)   Drainage improvements. Drainage improvements for the RV park
shall be constructed by the developer and, at the minimum, in accordance with
plans and specifications approved by the town. All storm drainage facilities
shall be so designed and constructed by the developer as to protect downstream
and adjacent properties against injury and adequately serve the RV park. No
over-lot grading shall be initiated by the developer until all State of
Colorado regulations have been met and the town issues written approval of the
over-lot grading and erosion control plans.
   (F)   Application requirements and procedures. Prior to the development of a
RV park, the applicant shall submit a complete and comprehensive development
plan and land use application which shall be reviewed by the Wiggins Planning
and Zoning Commission and final approved by the Board of Trustees in a special
review hearing. The development plan shall include the following:
      (1)   Detailed land use plan, drawn to a scale of one inch equals 100
feet, unless larger scale is necessary, including the dimensions and location
of each RV rental space, service buildings, common and recreation areas;
      (2)   Typical street cross sections;
      (3)   Location and widths of roadways, sidewalks and pedestrian ways;
      (4)   Topography of site, at two foot contours;
      (5)   Grading, drainage, and stormwater plans;
      (6)   Soil report;
      (7)   Utility plans;
      (8)   Landscaping, screening and fencing plans;
      (9)   Sign plan;
      (10)   Fire protection plan;
      (11)   Traffic study (if adjacent to state hi-way or interstate);
      (12)   Acreage and percentage of land to be set aside as open space;
      (13)   Density of RV rental spaces per acre;
      (14)   Stormwater plan;
      (15)   Location and principal dimensions of all existing or proposed
easements, water course boundaries, public utilities, monuments, pins,
benchmarks and other significant features;
      (16)   Proposed surface treatment and design of all interior roadways and
rental pads;
      (17)   Security and maintenance plan that RV park; and
      (18)   Any other documents or reports that the town staff, Planning and
Zoning Commission, or Board of Trustees may deem necessary.
(Ord. 07-2024, passed 9-25-2024)
§ 153.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person convicted of violating the provisions of this chapter in
the Town Municipal Court may be fined an amount not to exceed $1,000.
   (B)   Any person, firm, building superintendent, building manager,
contractor, contractor’s superintendent, corporation or other entity who
violated any of the provisions of §
153.017, including, but not limited to, failing to obtain a building permit,
shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and of a separate offense for each and
every day or portion thereof during which any violation continues, and shall be
punished by a fine of not more than $2,650.
   (C)   Violations of the provisions of this chapter or failure to comply with
any of its requirements, including violations of any conditions and safeguards
established in connection with grants of variances or special use or
conditional use permits, shall constitute a misdemeanor, punishable by a fine
of up to $1,000. Any agreement to sell or transfer lots in a subdivision before
the final plat is approved by the town will constitute a separate violation for
each lot sold or agreed to be sold. Each day of violation will constitute a
separate offense.
      (3)   (a)   Any act constituting a violation of the provisions of this
chapter or a failure to comply with any of its requirements, including
violations of any conditions and safeguards established in connection with the
grants of variances or special use or conditional use permits, shall also
subject the offender to a civil penalty of $25.
         (b)   If the offender fails to pay this penalty within ten days after
being cited for a violation, the penalty may be recovered by the town in a
civil action in the nature of debt. A civil penalty may not be appealed to the
Board of Adjustment if the offender was sent a final notice of violation and
did not take an appeal to the Board of Adjustment within the prescribed time.
      (4)   This chapter may also be enforced by any appropriate equitable
action.
      (5)   Each day that any violation continues after notification by the
Administrator that such violation exists shall be considered a separate offense
for purposes of the penalties and remedies specified in this section.
      (6)   In addition to any other penalty imposed by this chapter for a
violation of the provisions of this chapter, the town reserves and maintains
the continued right to abate violations of this chapter.
      (7)   Any one, all or any combination of the foregoing penalties and
remedies may be used to enforce this chapter.
   (D)   (1)   Whoever, being the owner or agent of the owner of any land
located within a subdivision, transfers or sells, or agrees to sell or
negotiates to sell, any land by reference to or exhibition of or by use of a
plat of a subdivision within the town before such plat has been approved by the
Planning Commission and recorded or filed in the office of the County Clerk and
Recorder shall pay a penalty of $1,000 to the town for each lot or parcel so
transferred, or sold, or agreed or negotiated to be sold.
      (2)   The description of such lot or parcel by metes and bounds in the
instrument of transfer or other document used in the process of selling or
transferring shall not exempt the transaction from such penalties or from the
remedies provided in this section. The town may enjoin such transfer or sale or
agreement by action for injunction brought in any court of competent
jurisdiction and may recover the penalty by civil action in any court of
competent jurisdiction.
   (E)   Violation of §
153.018 is a misdemeanor with a possible fine of up to $1,000.
   (F)   Violations of the provisions of §
153.069 or failure to comply with any of its requirements, shall constitute a
misdemeanor, punishable by a fine of up to $1,000.
(Ord. 2-98, passed 4-22-1998; Ord. 02-2019, passed 3-27-2019)
CHAPTER 154: TREES
Section
General Provisions
   
154.01   Definitions
   
154.02   Arborists license and bond
Town Tree Board
   
154.15   Creation and establishment of a town tree board
   
154.16   Term of office
   
154.17   Compensation
   
154.18   Duties and responsibilities
   
154.19   Operation
   
154.20   Interference with Town Tree Board
   
154.21   Review by Town Commission
Planting and Care
   
154.35   Street tree species to be planted
   
154.36   Spacing
   
154.37   Distance from curb and sidewalk
   
154.38   Distance from street corners and fireplugs
   
154.39   Utilities
   
154.40   Public tree care
   
154.41   Tree topping
   
154.42   Pruning, corner clearance
   
154.43   Dead or diseased tree removal on private property
   
154.44   Removal of stumps
 
   
154.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 154.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PARK TREES. Trees, shrubs, bushes and all other woody vegetation in public
parks having individual names, and all areas owned by the town, or to which the
public has free access as a park.
   STREET TREES. Trees, shrubs, bushes and all other woody vegetation on land
lying between property lines on either side of all streets, avenues or ways
with in the town.
(Ord. 2-80, passed 11-5-1980)
§ 154.02 ARBORISTS LICENSE AND BOND.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person or firm to engage in the business
or occupation of pruning, treating or removing street or park trees within the
town without first applying for and procuring a license. The license fee shall
be $10 annually in advance; provided, however, that no license shall be
required of any public service company or town employee doing such work in the
pursuit of their public service endeavors.
   (B)   Before any license shall be issued, each applicant shall first file
evidence of possession of liability insurance in the minimum amounts of $50,000
for bodily injury and $100,000 property damage indemnifying the town or any
person injured or damaged resulting from the pursuit of such endeavors as
herein described.
(Ord. 2-80, passed 11-5-1980) Penalty, see §
154.99
TOWN TREE BOARD
§ 154.15 CREATION AND ESTABLISHMENT OF A TOWN TREE BOARD.
   There is hereby created and established a town tree board for the town,
which shall consist of five members, citizens and residents of this town who
shall be appointed by the Mayor with the approval of the Commission.
(Ord. 2-80, passed 11-5-1980)
§ 154.16 TERM OF OFFICE.
   The term of the five persons to be appointed by the Mayor shall be three
years except that the term of two of the members appointed to the first Board
shall be for only one year and the term of two members of the first Board shall
be for two years. In the event that a vacancy shall occur during the term of
any member, his or her successor shall be appointed for the unexpired portion
of the term.
(Ord. 2-80, passed 11-5-1980)
§ 154.17 COMPENSATION.
   Members of the Board shall serve without compensation.
(Ord. 2-80, passed 11-5-1980)
§ 154.18 DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES.
   (A)   (1)   It shall be the responsibility of the Board to study,
investigate, counsel and develop and/or update annually, and administer a
written plan for the care, preservation, pruning, planting, re- planting,
removal or disposition of trees and shrubs in parks, along streets and in other
public areas.
      (2)   Such plan will be presented annually to the Town Commission and
upon its acceptance and approval shall constitute the official comprehensive
town tree plan for the town.
   (B)   The Board, when requested by the Town Commission, shall consider,
investigate, make finding, report and recommend upon any special matter of
question coming within the scope of its work.
(Ord. 2-80, passed 11-5-1980)
§ 154.19 OPERATION.
   The Board shall choose its own officers, make its own rules and regulations
and keep a journal of its proceedings. A majority of the members shall be a
quorum for the transaction of business.
(Ord. 2-80, passed 11-5-1980)
§ 154.20 INTERFERENCE WITH TOWN TREE BOARD.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to prevent, delay or interfere with the
Town Tree Board, or any of its agents, while engaging in and about the
planting, cultivating, mulching, pruning, spraying or removing of any street
trees, park trees or trees on private grounds, as authorized in this chapter.
(Ord. 2-80, passed 11-5-1980) Penalty, see §
154.99
§ 154.21 REVIEW BY TOWN COMMISSION.
   (A)   The Town Commission shall have the right to review the conduct, acts
and decisions of the Town Tree Board.
   (B)   Any person may appeal from any ruling or order of the Town Tree Board
to the Town Commission who may hear the matter and make final decision.
(Ord. 2-80, passed 11-5-1980)
PLANTING AND CARE
§ 154.35 STREET TREE SPECIES TO BE PLANTED.
   The following list constitutes the official street tree species for the
town. No species other than those included in this list may be planted as
street trees without written permission of the Town Tree Board.
Small Trees Medium Trees Large Trees
Small Trees           Medium Trees             Large Trees
Apricot               Ash, green               Coffeetree
                                                  Kentucky
Crabapple             Hackberry                Maple, Silver
   Flowering (sp.)
Goldenraintree        Honeylocust              Maple, Sugar
                         (thornless)
Hawthorne (sp.)       Linden or Basswood (sp.) Oak, Bur
Pear, Bradford        Mulberry, Red            Sycamore
                         (fruitless, male)
Redbud                Oak, English             Sycamore,
                                                  London plantree
Soapberry             Oak, Red                 Cottonwood
                                                  (Cottonless, male)
Lilac Jap. Tree       Pagodatree, Japanese      
Peach, Flowering      Pecan                     
Plum, Purpleleaf      Birch, River              
Serviceberry          Osageorange               
                         (Male, thornless)
                     Persimmon                 
                     Poplar, White             
                     Sassafras                 
 
(Ord. 2-80, passed 11-5-1980)
§ 154.36 SPACING.
   The spacing of street trees will be in accordance with the three species
size classes listed in §
154.35, and no trees may be planted closer together than the following: small
trees: 30 feet; medium trees: 40 feet; and large trees: 50 feet, except in
special plantings designed or approved by a landscape architect. In addition,
no tree shall be planted within 40 feet from the center of all 40 foot town
streets nor within 60 feet from the center of all 80 foot town streets.
(Ord. 2-80, passed 11-5-1980)
§ 154.37 DISTANCE FROM CURB AND SIDEWALK.
   The distance trees may be planted from curbs or curblines and sidewalks will
be in accordance with the three species size classes listed in §
154.35, and no trees may be planted closer to any curb or sidewalk than the
following: small trees: two feet; medium trees: three feet; and large trees:
four feet.
(Ord. 2-80, passed 11-5-1980) Penalty, see §
154.99
§ 154.38 DISTANCE FROM STREET CORNERS AND FIREPLUGS.
   No street tree shall be planted closer than 30 feet of any street corner,
measured from the point of nearest intersecting curbs or curblines. No street
tree shall be planted closer than ten feet of any fireplug.
(Ord. 2-80, passed 11-5-1980) Penalty, see §
154.99
§ 154.39 UTILITIES.
   No street trees other than those species listed as small trees in §
154.35 may be planted under or within ten lateral feet of any overhead utility
wire, or over or within five lateral feet of any underground water line, sewer
line transmission line or other utility.
(Ord. 2-80, passed 11-5-1980) Penalty, see §
154.99
§ 154.40 PUBLIC TREE CARE.
   (A)   The town shall have the right to plant, prune, maintain and remove
trees, plants and shrubs within the lines of all streets, alleys, avenues,
lanes, squares and public grounds, as may be necessary to ensure public safety
or to preserve or enhance the symmetry and beauty of such public grounds.
   (B)   (1)   The Town Tree Board may remove, or cause or order to be removed,
any tree or part thereof which is in an unsafe condition or which by reason of
its nature is injurious to sewers, electric power lines, gas lines, water lines
or other public improvements, or is affected with any injurious fungus, insect
or other pest.
      (2)   This section does not prohibit the planting of street trees by
adjacent property owners providing that the selection and location of said
trees is in accordance with §
154.35 through
154.39.
(Ord. 2-80, passed 11-5-1980)
§ 154.41 TREE TOPPING.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful as a normal practice for any person, firm or town
department to top any street tree, park tree or other tree on public property.
TOPPING is defined as the severe cutting back of limbs to stubs larger than
three inches in diameter within the tree’s crown to such a degree so as to
remove the normal canopy and disfigure the tree.
   (B)   Trees severely damaged by storms or other causes, or certain trees
under utility wires or other obstructions where other pruning practices are
impractical may be exempted from this chapter at the determination of the Town
Tree Board.
(Ord. 2-80, passed 11-5-1980) Penalty, see §
154.99
§ 154.42 PRUNING, CORNER CLEARANCE.
   (A)   Every owner of any tree overhanging any street or right-of-way within
the town shall prune the branches so that such branches shall not obstruct the
light from any street lamp or obstruct the view of any street intersection and
so that there shall be a clear space of eight feet above the surface of the
street or sidewalk. Said owners shall remove all dead, diseased or dangerous
trees, or broken or decayed limbs which constitute a menace to the safety of
the public.
   (B)   The town shall have the right to prune any tree or shrub on private
property when it interferes with the proper spread of light along the street
from a street light or interferes with visibility of any traffic control device
or sign.
(Ord. 2-80, passed 11-5-1980) Penalty, see §
154.99
§ 154.43 DEAD OR DISEASED TREE REMOVAL ON PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   The town shall have the right to cause the removal of any dead or diseased
trees on private property within the town, when such trees constitute a hazard
to life and property, or harbor insects or disease which constitute a potential
threat to other trees within the town. The Town Tree Board will notify, in
writing, the owners of such trees. Removal shall be done by said owners at
their own expense within 60 days after the date of service of notice. In the
event of failure of owners to comply with such provisions, the town shall have
the authority to remove such trees and charge the cost of removal on the owners
property tax notice.
(Ord. 2-80, passed 11-5-1980)
§ 154.44 REMOVAL OF STUMPS.
   All stumps of street and park trees shall be removed below the surface of
the ground so that the top of the stump shall not project above the surface of
the ground.
(Ord. 2-80, passed 11-5-1980) Penalty, see §
154.99
§ 154.99 PENALTY.
   Any person violating any provision of this chapter shall be, upon conviction
or a plea of guilty, subject to a fine not to exceed $300.
(Ord. 2-80, passed 11-5-1980)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   Table
      
I.   AGREEMENTS, CONTRACTS AND FRANCHISES
      
II.   STREET VACATIONS
      
III.   ZONING MAP CHANGES
      
IV.   ANNEXATIONS AND DISCONNECTIONS
      
V.   REAL ESTATE AND PROPERTY
      
VI.   EASEMENTS
      
VII.   FUNDS
TABLE I: AGREEMENTS, CONTRACTS AND FRANCHISES
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
1-82     6-4-1982    Granting a gas franchise to Public Service Company of
                     Colorado for 25 years
                     Contracting indebetedness on behalf of the town and upon
3-88     11-2-1988   the credit thereof by borrowing money from the Farm Credit
                     Bank of Witchita
1-90     1-3-1990    Granting a gas franchise to Public Service Company of
                     Colorado for 25 years
                     Lease with option to purchase agreement and related
5-08     8-13-2008   documents for acquisition of ten shares of stock in the
                     Weldon Valley Ditch Company and related property interests
                     Lease with option to purchase agreement and related
9-08     12-3-2008   documents for the acquisition of ten shares of stock in
                     the Weldon Valley Ditch Company
5-11     - -2011     Paid-up oil and gas lease and order of payment with
                     Chesapeake Exploration, LLC
                     Loan agreement by and between High Plains Bank and the
                     Water Enterprise to provide interim funding for the
3-11     3-9-2011    Wiggins Water Project; authorizing the Mayor and Town
                     Clerk to execute loan documents and collateral instruments
                     in connection with said loan
1-12     3-14-2012   Acquisition of nine shares of the Weldon Valley Ditch
                     Company
05-13    8-14-2013   Acquisition of nine shares of the Weldon Valley Ditch
                     Company
13-2015  12-9-2015   Water lease agreement with the Town of Castle Rock for the
                     purpose of leasing augmentation water
                     Loan agreement by and between High Plains Bank and the
                     Water Enterprise to finance a real property acquisition;
16-2016  9-28-2016   authorizing the Town Manager and Town Clerk to execute
                     loan documents and collateral instruments in connection
                     with said loan
                     First amendment to the water lease agreement with the Town
01-2017  3-8-2017    of Castle Rock for the purpose of leasing augmentation
                     water
04-2017  4-12-2017   Loan agreement for the purpose of financing acquisition of
                     certain water and wastewater improvements
                     Loan from the Colorado Water Conservation Board;
07-17    6-28-2017   authorizing the form and execution of the loan contract,
                     promissory note to evidence such loan and security
                     agreement in connection therewith
03-2019  12-11-2019  Extension of a loan agreement dated April 28, 2018;
                     amending Ord. 04-2017
                     Amended and restated loan agreement for a loan with the
                     Bank of the West, payable from water revenue and
01-2020  2-12-2020   wastewater revenue, and certain other documents in
                     connection therewith, for the purpose of extending its
                     outstanding loan with Bank of the West
03-2021  1-27-2021   Water agreement with WGC Trading Co.
09-2022  6-15-2022   Water lease agreement with the Town of Castle Rock for the
                     purpose of leasing augmentation water
01-2024  1-24-2024   Water agreement with WGC Trading Co.
04-2024  5-22-2024   Approving a lease agreement for an office copier for Town
                     Hall
05-2024  6-12-2024   Water lease agreement with the Town of Castle Rock for the
                     purpose of leasing augmentation water
01-2025  5-22-2025   Approving lease agreement for a portion of the Knievel
                     Property
                    
 
TABLE II: STREET VACATIONS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
2-85     7-16-1985   Vacating a portion of an alley
1-96     2-14-1996   Vacating a portion of Chapman Street
10-96    11-13-1996  Vacating a portion of Fifth Avenue
3-03     3-12-2003   Vacating a portion of Dickson Street north of the north
                     right-of-way line of Corona Avenue
3-06     6-14-2006   Vacating a portion of North Ridge Drive as platted in the
                     North Ridge Addition
                     Vacating portions of Chapman Street, West Fourth Avenue
06-2017  6-14-2017   and certain alleys within Blocks 33, 48 and 49 near the
                     Wiggins School site
15-2017  10-11-2017  Vacating portions of Curry Street and West Fifth Avenue
                     near the Wiggins School site
06-2022  4-27-2022   Vacating an alley within Block 8 of the Woods First
                     Addition
                    
 
TABLE III: ZONING MAP CHANGES
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
                     Changing the zoning of land annexed by Ord. 7-95 to
9-95     - -         Business District (B) or Residential District (R-1);
                     amending Ord. 3-76
5-78     10-4-1978   Adopting the official map of the town
1-85     5-22-1985   Changing a zoning classification from commercial to
                     business; amending Ord. 3- 76
4-90     12-12-1990  Changing the zoning of the land annexed in Ord. 3-90 to
                     Conservation District (CON); amending Ord. 3- 76
6-92     9-9-1992    Changing the zoning of the land annexed in Ord. 3-91 to
                     Business District (B); amending Ord. 3- 76
1-93     4-14-1993   Changing a zoning classification from Business District
                     (B) to Residential District (R-1); amending Ord. 3- 76
                     Changing the zoning of Block 1, North Ridge Addition: Lots
                     1 through 8; Block 2, North Ridge Addition: Lots 1, 2 and
8-95     5-10-1995   3; Block 1, North Ridge Second Addition: Lots 1, 2, 9 and
                     10 from Business District (B) or Residential District (R-
                     1) to Residential District (R-2); amending Ord. 3- 76
                     Changing the zoning of Blocks 11 and 12 from Conservation
6-96     6-26-1996   District (CON) to Business District (B); amending Ord. 3-
                     76
3-99     5-12-1999   Changing the zoning of the land annexed in Ord. 2-99 to
                     Commercial District (CD); amending Ords. 3-76 and 2-98
4-00     10-11-2000  Changing the zoning of the land annexed in Ord. 3-00 to
                     Conservation (CON); amending Ord. 2-98
                     Changing certain zoning designations of lands from
2-01     2-28-2001   Commercial District (CD) to Industrial District (ID);
                     amending Ord. 2-98
4-01     2-28-2001   Changing the zoning of the land annexed in Ord. 3-01 to
                     Industrial District (ID); amending Ord. 2- 98
8-01     11-14-2001  Changing the zoning of land annexed in Ord. 6-01 to
                     Conservation District (CON); amending Ord. 2- 98
                     Changing the zoning of the land annexed in Ord. 3-02 to
4-02     12-11-2002  Industrial District (ID) and Conservation District (CON);
                     amending Ord. 2- 98
                     Changing the zoning of the land annexed in Ord. 1-03 by
2-03     1-8-2003    classifying the Wiggins Industrial Park as Industrial
                     District (ID) and the rest to Conservation District (CON);
                     amending Ord. 4- 02 and Ord. 2-98
4-03     3-12-2003   Rezoning Lots 1 and 2 of Kuhlmann Minor Subdivision to
                     Residential District (R-1)
                     Changing the zoning of Lots 1 through 16, Block 24 from
4-04     8-11-2004   Residential District (R-1) to Residential District (R-2);
                     amending Ord. 2- 98
                     Changing the zoning designation of Lots 1 through 12,
5-04     8-11-2004   Block 8, Woods First Addition from Mobile Home Park
                     District (MHPD) to Industrial District (ID); amending Ord.
                     2-98
                     Changing the zoning of the land annexed in Ord. 01-06 to
2-06     3-8-2006    Single- Family Residential District (R-1); amending Ord.
                     2- 98
2-11     3-9-2011    Initial zoning of property annexed to the town and known
                     as the CHS annexation to Commercial District (CD)
                     Rezoning the Kiowa Park Planed Development from
03-2016  2-10-2016   Conservation (CON) to Planned Development (PD); approving
                     a preliminary PD plan for the Kiowa Park Planned
                     Development
09-2016  3-9-2016    Approving a final PD plan for the Kiowa Park Planned
                     Development
                     Initial zoning of property annexed to the town and known
02-2016  6-8-2016    as the Thomas Annexation No. 3 as Planned Development
                     (PD); approving a preliminary development plan for such
                     property to be known as the Farm Planned Development
                     Rezoning from Conservation (CON) to Planned Development
14-2016  9-14-2016   (PD); approving a preliminary PD plan for the Kiowa Park
                     Crossing Planned Development
                     Initial zoning of property annexed and known as the Ruyle
19-2016  10-12-2016  Annexation as Industrial District (ID); approving a
                     general development plan for such property
                     Initial zoning of property annexed and known as the
21-2016  11-9-2016   Roberts 81 Annexation as Planned Development (PD);
                     approving a preliminary PD plan for such property to be
                     known as the Roberts 81 Planned Development
                     Rezoning of Lots 17-24, Block 6, Woods First Addition from
05-2017  5-10-2017   Mobile Home Park District (MHPD) to Residential District
                     (R-2)
13-2017  10-11-2017  Initial zoning of property annexed to the town known as
                     the Kiowa East Annexation as Residential District (R-2)
03-2018  3-28-2018   Approving a first amendment to the final PD plan for the
                     Kiowa Park Planned Development
09-2018  9-26-2018   Organizing the Roberts 81 Business Improvement District
03-2020  9-23-2020   Approving a second amendment to the final PD plan for the
                     Kiowa Park Planned Development
02-2022  2-23-2022   Change in boundaries of the Roberts 81 Business
                     Improvement District
04-2022  3-23-2022   Rezoning portions of the Woods First Addition Subdivision
                     to the Industrial District (ID)
 
TABLE IV: ANNEXATIONS AND DISCONNECTIONS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
3-78     7-5-1978    Disconnecting certain property
3-90     8-8-1990    Annexing a parcel of land located in Section 15, Township
                     3 North, Range 60 West of the Sixth Principal Meridian
                     Annexing a parcel of land in the Northeast quarter,
3-91     3-13-1991   Northwest quarter of Section 14, Township 3 North, Range
                     60 West of the Sixth Principal Meridian
                     Annexing part of the South half of the Southwest quarter
4-92     8-12-1992   of Section 11, Township 3 North, Range 60 West of the
                     Sixth Principal Meridian
7-95     5-10-1995   Annexing part of the East half of Section 15, Township 3
                     North, Range 60 West of the Sixth Principal Meridian
                     Annexing a portion of the Southwest quarter of Section 11,
2-99     5-12-1999   Township 3 North, Range 60 West of the Sixth Principal
                     Meridian
                     Annexing a parcel of land in the Southwest quarter of
3-00     9-27-2000   Section 11, Township 3 North, Range 60 West of the Sixth
                     Principal Meridian
                     Annexing a portion of the Northwest quarter of Section 12,
3-01     2-28-2001   Township 3 North, Range 60 West of the Sixth Principal
                     Meridian
                     Annexing a parcel of land located in the Southeast quarter
6-01     9-12-2001   of Section 15 and the Southwest quarter of Section 14,
                     Township 3 North, Range 60 West of the Sixth Principal
                     Meridian
2-02     7-10-2002   Annexing part of Sections 11 and 14, Township 3 North,
                     Range 60 West of the Sixth Principal Meridian
                     Annexing part of Sections 11 and 14, Township 3 North,
3-02     9-11-2002   Range 60 West of the Sixth Principal Meridian; amending
                     Ord. 2-02
                     Annexing part of Sections 11 and 14, Township 3 North,
1-03     1-8-2003    Range 60 West of the Sixth Principal Meridian; amending
                     Ord. 3-02
                     Annexing Lot 3 Busch Subdivision and being part of the
1-06     3-8-2006    Southwest quarter of the Southeast quarter of Section 10,
                     Township 3 North, Range 60 West of the Sixth Principal
                     Meridian
1-11     3-9-2011    Approving the annexation known as the CHS Annexation
01-13    2-13-2013   Disconnecting a parcel of land known as Thomas Annexation
                     No. 1
02-13    2-13-2013   Disconnecting a parcel of land consisting of approximately
                     97.44 acres and known as Thomas Annexation No. 2
08-13    10-9-2013   Disconnecting certain land known as the Ruyle Family tract
                     of land
14-2015  12-9-2015   Amending Ord. 01-13 to exclude the school district parcel
                     from being disconnected
01-2016  1-13-2016   Annexing certain property known as the Thomas Annexation
                     No. 3
17-2016  10-12-2016  Annexing certain property known as the Roberts 81
                     Annexation
18-2016  10-12-2016  Annexing certain property known as the Ruyle Annexation
12-2017  10-11-2017  Annexing certain property known as the Kiowa East
                     Annexation
                    
 
TABLE V: REAL ESTATE AND PROPERTY
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
                     Leasing real estate for a period of one year and selling
1-89     1-4-1989    and disposing of certain real estate to Apollo Ventures,
                     Inc.
4-95     3-8-1995    Vehicle master lease/installment purchase agreement with
                     Centennial Leasing, Inc. for up to 60 months
                     Sale of certain real property not used or held for any
4-96     2-14-1996   governmental purpose to David A. Knievel and Margey
                     Knievel
9-96     10-23-1996  Sale of certain real property not used or held for any
                     governmental purpose to Dominion Leasing, Inc.
1-97     4-9-1997    Sale of certain real property not used or held for any
                     governmental purpose to Wackenhut Corrections Corporation
                     Prohibiting the sale of certain real estate, known as the
                     Town Farm, to Wackenhut Corrections Corporation for
2-97     7-9-1997    construction and operation of a correctional facilities
                     and to prohibit the construction of a correctional
                     facility within three miles of any schools
1-99     4-14-1999   Vehicle master lease/installment purchase agreement with
                     Centennial Leasing, Inc. for up to 60 months
2-00     8-9-2000    Vehicle master lease/installment purchase agreement with
                     Centennial Leasing, Inc. for up to 60 months
1-01     2-14-2001   Lease/purchase agreement for property with Zions First
                     National Bank, Salt Lake City, Utah
2-08     5-14-2008   Acquisition of certain agricultural land
3-08     5-14-2008   Acquisition of an approximately five- acre parcel of land
                     for a town well site
8-08     12-3-2008   Acquisition of certain agricultural land
4-11     - -2011     Acquisition of an approximately five- acre parcel of land
                     for a town well site
                     Ground lease agreement with the American Legion Post #76
2-12     3-14-2012   for a portion of the Town Farm for the operation of a
                     recreation facility and shooting range
                     Ground lease agreement with the revocable inter vivos
08-2015  7-22-2015   trust of Linda Wenger for the lease of property for soccer
                     fields and open space
11-2015  10-28-2015  Sale and conveyance of approximately 68 acres to Genesis
                     Development Management, LLLP
08-2016  2-24-2016   Dryland farm lease agreement with hunting privileges for
                     the lease of the Kammerer Farm property
05-2016  4-13-2016   Lease-purchase agreement for equipment for the Public
                     Works Department
11-2016  6-29-2016   Sale and conveyance of approximately 2.2 acres of property
                     to Kiowa Park, LLC
13-2016  8-24-2016   Acquisition of approximately seven acres of property from
                     the revocable inter vivos trust of Linda Wenger
15-2016  9-28-2016   Acquisition of 5.63 acres of property from the revocable
                     inter vivos trust of Linda Wenger
02-2017  4-12-2017   Housing lease with David A. Knievel
03-2017  4-12-2017   Acquisition of approximately 700 acres of land and
                     associated water rights owned by David A. Knievel
                     Acquisition of approximately 111 acres of property in
11-2017  8-9-2017    Morgan County, together with certain water rights and
                     related rights and interests
17-2017  11-8-2017   Sale and conveyance of approximately five acres of
                     property to Genesis Development Management, LLLP
02-2018  3-14-2018   Dryland farm lease agreement with hunting privileges for
                     the lease of the Kammerer Farm property
05-2018  6-27-2018   Sale and conveyance of a portion of the Glassey Farm to
                     David and Susan Hollis
06-2018  6-27-2018   Lease agreement for a portion of town property with Morgan
                     Community College
                     Sale and conveyance of a portion of the Glassey Farm to
08-2018  8-8-2018    Martin Neal, Jessica A. Neal, Barbara J. Bretz and John G.
                     Bretz
02-2020  6-24-2020   Lease agreement with Leaf Capital Funding, LLC for an
                     office copier for Town Hall
10-2021  10-27-2021  Sale and conveyance of approximately 13.36 acres to
                     Michael K. Miller and Carey R. Miller
                    
 
TABLE VI: EASEMENTS
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
1-88     5-4-1988    Acceptance of title to and possession of the permanent
                     easements for certain parcels by quit claim deed
2-89     5-3-1989    Granting a right-of- way easement to Morgan County Rural
                     Electric Association
 
TABLE VII: FUNDS
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
                     Authorizing a loan from the Sales Tax Capital Improvement
1-10     3-10-2010   Fund to the Water Fund; amending the 2010 budget to
                     provide for such loan
                     Authorizing a loan from the Sales Tax Capital Improvement
5-10     9-29-2010   Fund to the Water Fund; amending the 2010 budget to
                     provide for such loan; amending Ord. 1-10 to extend the
                     term of a loan
                    
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Colorado Revised Statutes
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO COLORADO REVISED STATUTES
C.R.S. Cites Code Section
C.R.S. Cites                        Code Section
13-10-112(2)                        33.38
                                    10.99;
                                    33.99;
                                    50.99;
                                    52.99;
13-10-113                           53.99;
                                    70.07;
                                    70.99;
                                    110.99;
                                    152.99
16-11-308.5                         153.015
17-1-104.5                          153.015
Title 17, Article 1, Part 2         153.014
18-5-205                            130.17
24-33.5-2001                        94.01
24-67-101 et seq.                   153.175
Title 24, Article 68                153.125;
                                    153.126
24-68-101 et seq.                   153.126;
                                    153.130
Title 25, Article 1-114             53.01
Title 25, Article 1-114.1           53.01
25-5-410(1)(i)(II)                  134.04
Title 29, Article 2                 33.08
29-2-106.1                          33.10
29-2-106.1(2)(c)                    33.09
Title 29, Article 20                152.01
Title 31                            91.003
31-4-401                            30.16
Title 31, Article 12                153.145
31-12-104                           153.156
31-12-105                           153.156
31-15-401 through 31-15-601         153.005
31-15-601                           153.005
31-16-206                           151.11
Title 31, Article 16, Parts 1 and 2 70.01
31-20-105                           91.003
31-20-301 et seq.                   30.20
31-23-201 et seq.                   150.08
31-23-202                           153.005
31-23-212                           153.005
31-23-213                           153.005
31-23-214                           153.005
31-23-301                           153.005
32-2-101(2)                         153.180
35-5.5-101 et seq.                  91.070
37-45.1-104(2)                      50.51
37-91-110                           51.05
Title 38, Article 51                153.178
Title 39, Article 26                33.08
39-26-102                           33.01
39-26-201                           33.01
39-26-802.9                         110.04
Title 42                            92.01
42-4-1804                           92.02
42-4-1805                           92.02
42-12-101                           92.05
Title 43, Article 1, Part 4         153.180
43-2-101(1)                         153.180
43.4-104(12)                        113.01
44-3-301                            112.20;
                                    112.22
44-3-301(10)                        112.24
44-3-403                            112.22
44-3-601                            112.25
44-3-901                            112.24
                                    134.01;
Title 44, Article 3                 134.03;
                                    134.08
                                    134.01;
Title 44, Article 4                 134.03;
                                    134.08
                                    134.01;
Title 44, Article 5                 134.03;
                                    134.08
44-10-103                           113.01
44-45-101 et seq.                   112.05
81-920-105                          51.57
                                    
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
9-95     - -         TSO Table III
3-78     7-5-1978    TSO Table IV
5-78     10-4-1978   TSO Table III
3-79     6-6-1979    133.03
                     154.01;
                     154.02;
                     154.15—
2-80     11-5-1980   154.21;
                     154.35—
                     154.44;
                     154.99
1-82     6-4-1982    TSO Table I
1-85     5-22-1985   TSO Table III
2-85     7-16-1985   TSO Table II
1-86     2-5-1986    133.02
1-88     5-4-1988    TSO Table VI
3-88     11-2-1988   TSO Table I
4-1988   12-7-1988   152.13
1-89     1-4-1989    TSO Table V
2-89     5-3-1989    TSO Table VI
1-90     1-3-1990    TSO Table I
3-90     8-8-1990    TSO Table IV
4-90     12-12-1990  TSO Table III
3-91     3-13-1991   TSO Table IV
4-91     8-14-1991   54.01—
                     54.17
                     51.01—
                     51.05;
                     51.20—
                     51.25;
5-91     8-14-1991   51.40—
                     51.43;
                     51.56;
                     51.58;
                     51.99
3-92     6-24-1992   31.20—31.22
4-92     8-12-1992   TSO Table IV
6-92     9-9-1992    TSO Table III
1-93     4-14-1993   TSO Table III
4-93     10-27-1993  130.01
1-94     11-9-1994   134.25—
                     134.28
2-95     2-22-1995   132.01;
                     132.02
3-95     2-22-1995   132.03
4-95     3-8-1995    TSO Table V
7-95     5-10-1995   TSO Table IV
8-95     5-10-1995   TSO Table III
10-95    5-24-1995   32.01—
                     32.04
11-95    10-25-1995  134.01—134.11
1-96     2-14-1996   TSO Table II
4-96     2-14-1996   TSO Table V
6-96     6-26-1996   TSO Table III
9-96     10-23-1996  TSO Table V
10-96    11-13-1996  TSO Table II
1-97     4-9-1997    TSO Table V
2-97     7-9-1997    TSO Table V
5-97     12-10-1997  31.01—
                     31.03
1-98     2-25-1998   32.04
                     153.001—
                     153.019;
                     153.030—
                     153.043;
                     153.055—
                     153.070;
                     153.085;
2-98     4-22-1998   153.100—
                     153.114;
                     153.125—
                     153.130;
                     153.145—
                     153.159;
                     153.170—
                     153.181;
                     153.999
4-98     9-9-1998    133.01
1-99     4-14-1999   TSO Table V
2-99     5-12-1999   TSO Table IV
3-99     5-12-1999   TSO Table III
1-09     - -200-     30.15—
                     30.23
2-00     8-9-2000    TSO Table V
3-00     9-27-2000   TSO Table IV
4-00     10-11-2000  TSO Table III
1-01     2-14-2001   TSO Table V
2-01     2-28-2001   TSO Table III
3-01     2-28-2001   TSO Table IV
4-01     2-28-2001   TSO Table IIIv
6-01     9-12-2001   TSO Table IV
8-01     11-14-2001  TSO Table III
                     153.015;
1-02     4-10-2002   153.033—
                     153.035;
                     153.037
2-02     7-10-2002   TSO Table IV
3-02     9-11-2002   TSO Table IV
4-02     12-11-2002  TSO Table III
1-03     1-8-2003    TSO Table IV
2-03     1-8-2003    TSO Table III
3-03     3-12-2003   TSO Table II
4-03     3-12-2003   TSO Table III
7-03     4-23-2003   54.12
14-03    12-10-2003  32.06
3-04     8-11-2004   94.20—
                     94.22
4-04     8-11-2004   TSO Table III
5-04     8-11-2004   TSO Table III
2-05     4-13-2005   131.01—
                     131.07
1-06     3-8-2006    TSO Table IV
2-06     3-8-2006    TSO Table III
3-06     6-14-2006   TSO Table II
01-07    2-14-2007   150.20—
                     150.27
                     90.01—
                     90.04;
                     90.05;
3-07     12-12-2007  90.06;
                     90.20—
                     90.31;
                     90.99
4-07     12-12-2007  130.15—
                     130.21
2-08     5-14-2008   TSO Table V
3-08     5-14-2008   TSO Table V
4-08     7-9-2008    153.180
5-08     8-13-2008   TSO Table I
6-08     9-10-2008   90.03
8-08     12-3-2008   TSO Table V
9-08     12-3-2008   TSO Table I
10-08    12-10-2008  90.02
                     153.031;
2-09     - -2009     153.039;
                     153.043
5-09     - -2009     111.01—
                     111.06
3-09     8-12-2009   94.21;
                     94.23
2-10     - -2010     54.05
1-10     3-10-2010   TSO Table VII
3-10     6-9-2010    32.02
5-10     9-29-2010   TSO Table VII
6-10     10-13-2010  50.50—
                     50.57
7-10     12-8-2010   113.01—
                     113.03
4-11     - -2011     TSO Table V
5-11     - -2011     TSO Table I
1-11     3-9-2011    TSO Table IV
2-11     3-9-2011    TSO Table III
3-11     3-9-2011    TSO Table I
                     71.01—
6-11     5-11-2011   71.05;
                     71.99
1-12     3-14-2012   TSO Table I
2-12     3-14-2012   TSO Table V
01-13    2-13-2013   TSO Table IV
02-13    2-13-2013   TSO Table IV
05-13    8-14-2013   TSO Table I
08-13    10-9-2013   TSO Table IV
01-14    1-8-2014    51.59;
                     54.18
                     152.01—
                     152.12;
                     152.25—
02-14    1-12-2014   152.28;
                     152.40—
                     152.47;
                     152.99
02-2015  1-28-2015   30.15
                     70.20;
04-2015  4-22-2015   70.21;
                     70.99
                     110.01—
05-2015  6-4-2015    110.14;
                     110.99
                     110.25—
06-2015  6-4-2015    110.34;
                     110.99
07-2015  6-10-2015   32.04
08-2015  7-22-2015   TSO Table V
09-2015  9-9-2015    50.30—
                     50.35
10-2015  10-14-2015  50.15
11-2015  10-28-2015  TSO Table V
13-2015  12-9-2015   TSO Table I
14-2015  12-9-2015   TSO Table IV
01-2016  1-13-2016   TSO Table IV
                     53.01—
04-2016  1-13-2016   53.08;
                     53.99
03-2016  2-10-2016   TSO Table III
08-2016  2-24-2016   TSO Table V
09-2016  3-9-2016    TSO Table III
05-2016  4-13-2016   TSO Table V
02-2016  6-8-2016    TSO Table III
11-2016  6-29-2016   TSO Table V
13-2016  8-24-2016   TSO Table V
7-08     9- -2016    153.015
14-2016  9-14-2016   TSO Table III
15-2016  9-28-2016   TSO Table V
16-2016  9-28-2016   TSO Table I
17-2016  10-12-2016  TSO Table IV
18-2016  10-12-2016  TSO Table IV
19-2016  10-12-2016  TSO Table III
                     153.017;
                     153.035;
                     153.038—
20-2016  10-26-2016  153.040;
                     153.043;
                     153.059;
                     153.114
21-2016  11-9-2016   TSO Table III
                     90.45—
22-2016  11-9-2016   90.49;
                     90.99
01-2017  3-8-2017    TSO Table I
02-2017  4-12-2017   TSO Table V
03-2017  4-12-2017   TSO Table V
04-2017  4-12-2017   TSO Table I
05-2017  5-10-2017   TSO Table III
06-2017  6-14-2017   TSO Table II
07-17    6-28-2017   TSO Table I
08-2017  7-12-2017   32.07
                     33.25—
                     33.33;
09-2017  7-26-2017   33.35—
                     33.40;
                     33.99
                     33.01—
10-2017  7-26-2017   33.13;
                     33.99
11-2017  8-9-2017    TSO Table V
12-2017  10-11-2017  TSO Table IV
13-2017  10-11-2017  TSO Table III
                     153.015;
                     153.033—
                     153.037;
                     153.041;
14-2017  10-11-2017  153.085;
                     153.102—
                     153.104;
                     153.174;
                     153.178;
                     153.179
15-2017  10-11-2017  TSO Table II
                     50.01—
16-2017  10-25-2017  50.04;
                     50.99
17-2017  11-8-2017   TSO Table V
18-2017  12-13-2017  152.07
19-2017  12-13-2017  31.01—
                     31.03
02-2018  3-14-2018   TSO Table V
03-2018  3-28-2018   TSO Table III
05-2018  6-27-2018   TSO Table V
06-2018  6-27-2018   TSO Table Vv
08-2018  8-8-2018    TSO Table V
09-2018  9-26-2018   TSO Table III
12-2018  10- -2018   111.02
                     10.99;
                     33.99;
                     50.99;
                     71.99;
02-2019  3-27-2019   90.99,
                     110.99;
                     152.99;
                     153.069;
                     153.999
03-2019  12-11-2019  TSO Table I
01-2020  2-12-2020   TSO Table I
02-2020  6-24-2020   TSO Table V
03-2020  9-23-2020   TSO Table III
                     91.001—
                     91.005;
                     91.020—
                     91.022;
                     91.035;
                     91.036;
                     91.050—
                     91.055;
01-2021  1-27-2021   91.070—
                     91.072;
                     92.01—
                     92.10;
                     93.01—
                     93.05;
                     94.01—
                     94.08;
                     95.01—
                     95.03
                     110.25;
02-2021  1-27-2021   110.28;
                     110.30
03-2021  1-27-2021   TSO Table I
04-2021  2-24-2021   153.112
05-2021  2-24-2021   153.035;
                     153.038
06-2021  3-24-2021   70.01—
                     70.07
08-2021  9-22-2021   150.01—
                     150.09
                     153.102—
09-2021  10-27-2021  153.104;
                     153.174;
                     153.178
10-2021  10-27-2021  TSO Table V
12-2021  12-15-2021  30.01
                     151.01—
01-2022  1-26-2022   151.08;
                     151.11;
02-2022  2-23-2022   TSO Table III
04-2022  3-23-2022   TSO Table III
05-2022  3-23-2022   153.017;
                     153.114
06-2022  4-27-2022   TSO Table II
                     52.01—
07-2022  5-25-2022   52.08;
                     52.99
                     91.003;
                     91.036;
                     92.01;
                     92.03;
08-2022  5-25-2022   92.07;
                     93.02;
                     93.04;
                     95.01—
                     95.03
09-2022  6-15-2022   TSO Table I
01-2023  4-26-2023   151.09;
                     151.10
03-2023  5-24-2023   32.05
01-2024  1-24-2024   TSO Table I
02-2024  4-24-2024   Adopting Ordinance
04-2024  5-22-2024   TSO Table I
05-2024  6-12-2024   TSO Table I
                     153.015,
                     153.033,
07-2024  9-25-2024   153.034,
                     153.036,
                     153.037,
                     153.182
08-2024  10-25-2025  30.01
01-2025  5-22-2025   TSO Table I
02-2025  3-12-2025   70.01,
                     70.02
 
 
