   AUDUBON PARK, KENTUCKY
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2025 S-4 Supplement contains:
Local legislation current through Ord. 4, Series 2024, passed 11-18-2024
State legislation current through KRS 2024
 
Published by:
AMERICAN LEGAL PUBLISHING
525 Vine Street * Suite 310 * Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-800-445-5588 www.amlegal.com
ADOPTING ORDINANCE
ORDINANCE NO. 5, SERIES 2020
CITY OF AUDUBON PARK, KENTUCKY
ENACTING AS AN ORDINANCE, A CODE OF ORDINANCES FOR THE CITY OF AUDUBON PARK,
REVISING, AMENDING, RESTATING, CODIFYING, AND COMPLYING CERTAIN EXISTING
GENERAL ORDINANCES OF THE CITY DEALING WITH SUBJECTS EMBRACED IN THE CODE
SPONSORED BY COUNCIL MEMBERS ANDREW KLUMP, AUSTIN SCHWENKER, BRITTNEY GORTER,
JENNIFER KLEIER, MADELINE BOZEMAN, AND STEPHANIE GEORGE
WHEREAS, The City Code of Audubon Park was last recodified in 1996; and
WHEREAS, the present general ordinances of the City of Audubon Park are
incomplete and inadequate and the manner of arrangement, classification and
indexing thereof is insufficient to meet the immediate needs of the City; and
WHEREAS, ensuring developments in state and Federal statutory and case law have
rendered several provisions of the Code outdated or conflictual; and
WHEREAS, a multi-year effort has been undertaken to conform and update the Code
to current standards, rationalize its structure, and reduce redundancy and
overlap; and
WHEREAS, the Acts of the Legislature of the Commonwealth of Kentucky empower
and authorize the Legislative Body of this City to revise, amend, restate,
codify, and to compile any existing ordinance or ordinances and all new
ordinances not heretofore adopted or published and to incorporate the
ordinances into one ordinance in book form; and
WHEREAS, the Legislative Body of the City of Audubon Park has authorized a
general compilation, revision and codification of the ordinances of the City of
a general and permanent nature and publication of such ordinances in book form;
WHEREAS, a systematic process needs to begin forthwith to provide for ongoing
further review and update, culminating in the five-year recodification cycle
required by state law;
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY OF AUDUBON PARK, KENTUCKY:
1.   The City Code of September 8, 2020 is adopted, as contained in the minutes
of the adopting City Council meeting of the same date. The general ordinances
of the City of Audubon Park are herein revised, amended, restated, codified,
and compiled in book form are adopted as and shall constitute the “Code of
Ordinances of the City of Audubon Park.”
2.   The Code as adopted in Section 1 shall consist of the following titles:
AUDUBON PARK, KENTUCKY
CODE OF ORDINANCES
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Chapter
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
            10.      Rules of Construction; General Penalty
            11.      Corporate Boundaries
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
            30.      City Council
            31.      City Organization
            32.      Code of Ethics
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS 
            50.      Health and Sanitation
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
            70.      General Provisions
            71.      Parking Regulations
            72.      Parking Schedules
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
            90.      Public Ways, Areas, Services and Activities Code
            91.      Animals
            92.      Nuisances
            93.      Forest Code
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
            110.   Business Regulations
            111.   Insurance Companies
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
            130.   Offenses Against Public Order
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE 
            150.   Buildings and Housing Regulations; Lot Subdivision
            151.   National Historic District
            152.   Solar Panels
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
Reserved 
PARALLEL REFERENCES 
References to Kentucky Revised Statutes
References to 1996 Code
References to Ordinances
INDEX
3.   The City Code of November 19,1996 is repealed and all prior ordinances
pertaining to the subjects treated in the Code shall be deemed repealed from
and after the effective date of the Code, except as they are included and
reordained in whole or in part in the Code; provided that such repeal shall not
affect any offense committed or penalty incurred or any right established prior
to the effective date of the Code, nor shall such repeal affect the provisions
of ordinances levying taxes, appropriating money, annexing or detaching
territory, establishing franchises or granting special rights to certain
persons, authorizing public improvements, authorizing the issuance of bonds or
borrowing of money, authorizing the purchase or sale of real or persona!
property, granting or accepting easements or plats, accepting dedications of
land to public use, vacating or setting the boundaries of streets or other
public places; nor shall such repeal affect any other ordinance of a temporary
or special nature or pertaining to subjects not contained in or covered by the
Code.
4.   The Code shall be in full force and effect from and after its date of
passage, approval, and publication as required by law. The Code shall be
presumptive evidence in ail courts and places of the ordinances and all
provisions, sections, penalties, and regulations therein contained, and of the
date of passage, and that the same is properly signed, attested, recorded, and
approved and that any public hearings and notices thereof as required by law
have been given.
5.   The Mayor and City Council are enjoined to establish an ongoing review and
update process to provide for subsequent recodifications within the five-year
cycle provided in KRS 83A.060(11).
This ordinance was adopted at a meeting of the City Council of Audubon Park,
Kentucky, held on the 8th day of September, 2020, having first been read at a
meeting of said Council held on the 20th day of July, 2020.
                     Tony Williams /s/
                     TONY WILLIAMS, Mayor
 
Janette Mercer /s/
JANETTE MERCER, City Clerk
Action by the Council:
 
          Motion Second Aye Nay Abstain Absent
Bozeman                 T
George                  T
Gorter           T      T
Kleier                  T
Klump     T             T
Schwenker               T
 
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
      
11.   CORPORATE BOUNDARIES
CHAPTER 10: RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
Section
   
10.01   Short titles
   
10.02   Definitions
   
10.03   Rules of construction
   
10.04   Computation of time
   
10.05   Majority may act for all; authorized agent
   
10.06   Writings and signatures
   
10.07   Severability
   
10.08   Revivor
   
10.09   Rights and liabilities accruing before repeal of ordinance
   
10.10   Construction of section references
   
10.11   Ordinances repealed
   
10.12   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.13   Ordinances saved
   
10.14   Amendments to code; amendatory language
   
10.15   Conflicting provisions
   
10.16   Reference to offices
   
10.17   Errors and omissions
   
10.18   Historical and statutory references
 
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01 SHORT TITLES.
   (A)   All ordinances of a permanent and general nature of the city as
revised, codified, rearranged, renumbered, and consolidated into component
codes, titles, chapters, and sections shall be known and designated as the
Audubon Park Code, for which designation “codified ordinances” or “code” may be
substituted. Code, title, chapter, and section headings do not constitute any
part of the law as contained in the code.
(KRS 446.140)
   (B)   All references to codes, titles, chapters, and sections are to those
components of the code unless otherwise specified. Any component code may be
referred to and cited by its name, such as the “traffic code”. Sections may be
referred to and cited by the designation “§” followed by the number, such as “§
10.01”. Headings and captions used in this code other than the title, chapter,
and section numbers are employed for reference purposes only and shall not be
deemed a part of the text of any section.
§ 10.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this code, the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACTION. Includes all proceedings in any court of this state.
(KRS 446.010(1))
   AND. May be read OR, and OR may be read AND, if the sense requires it.
   ANIMAL. Includes every warm-blooded living creature except a human being.
(KRS 446.010(2))
   AVIS. The automated vehicle information system established and maintained by
the Transportation Cabinet to collect titling and registration information on
vehicles and boats and information on holders of motor vehicle operator’s
licenses and personal identification cards.
(KRS 446.010(52))
   CATTLE. Includes horse, mule, ass, cow, ox, sheep, hog, or goat of any age
or sex.
(KRS 446.010(7))
   CITY, MUNICIPAL CORPORATION, or MUNICIPALITY. When used in this code shall
denote the City of Audubon Park, irrespective of its population or legal
classification.
   CITY OFFICERS AND DEPARTMENTS. Whenever reference is made to an officer by
title, the same shall be construed as if followed by the words “of the City of
Audubon Park, Kentucky”.
   COMPANY. May extend and be applied to any corporation, company, person,
partnership, joint stock company, or association.
(KRS 446.010(8))
   COMPUTATION OF TIME. Whenever a notice is required to be given or an act to
be done, the rules for computation of time set form in KRS 446.030 shall apply.
   CORPORATION. May extend and be applied to any corporation, company,
partnership, joint stock company, or association.
(KRS 446.010(9))
   COUNCIL. The city legislative body.
(KRS 83A.010(5))
   COUNTY. Jefferson County, Kentucky.
   CRUELTY. As applied to animals, includes every act or omission whereby
unjustifiable physical pain, suffering, or death is caused or permitted.
(KRS 446.010(11))
   DIRECTORS. When applied to corporations, includes managers or trustees.
(KRS 446.010(12))
   DOMESTIC. When applied to a corporation, partnership, business trust, or
limited liability company, means all those incorporated or formed by authority
of this state.
(KRS 446.010(13))
   DOMESTIC ANIMAL. Any animal converted to domestic habitat.
(KRS 446.010(14))
   EXECUTIVE AUTHORITY. The Mayor.
(KRS 83A.010(6))
   FEDERAL. Refers to the United States.
(KRS 446.010(16))
   FOREIGN. When applied to a corporation, partnership, business trust, or
limited liability company, includes all those incorporated or formed by
authority of any other state.
(KRS 446.010(17))
   FRONT YARD. The area extending across the full width of any residential lot
in the city and measured between the street right-of-way line and the front
line of the building or structure on such lot.
   KEEPER or PROPRIETOR. Includes all persons, whether acting by themselves or
as a servant, agent, or employee.
   KRS. The abbreviation “KRS” refers to the Kentucky Revised Statutes.
   LAND or REAL ESTATE. Includes lands, tenements, and hereditaments and all
rights thereto and interest therein, other than a chattel interest.
(KRS 446.010(22))
   LEGISLATIVE BODY. The City Council.
(KRS 91A.010(8))
   LEGISLATIVE BODY MEMBER. A City Council member.
(KRS 83A.010(8))
   MAY. The act referred to is permissive.
(KRS 446.010(24))
   MONTH. Calendar month.
(KRS 446.010(25))
   NUMBER. A word importing the singular number only may extend and be applied
to several persons and things as well as to one person and thing.
   OATH. Includes affirmation, in all cases in which an affirmation may be
substituted for an OATH. (KRS 446.010(26))
   OWNER. The word OWNER applied to a building or land, shall include any part
owner, joint owner, tenant in common, tenant in partnership, joint tenant, or
tenant by the entirety, of the whole or of a part of such building or land.
   PARTNERSHIP. Includes both general and limited PARTNERSHIPS.
(KRS 446.010(28))
   PEACE OFFICER. Includes sheriffs, constables granted police powers,
coroners, jailers, metropolitan and urban-county government correctional
officers, marshals, police officers, and other persons with similar authority
to make arrests.
(KRS 446.010(29))
   PERSON. May extend and be applied to bodies-politic and corporate,
societies, communities, the public generally, individuals, partnerships, joint
stock companies, and limited liability companies.
(KRS 446.010(31))
   PERSONAL PROPERTY. Includes all property except real.
   PREMISES. As applied to property, includes land and buildings.
   PROPERTY. Includes real, personal, mixed estates, and interests.
   PUBLIC AUTHORITY. Includes boards of education; the municipal, county,
state, or federal government, its officers, or an agency thereof; or any duly-
authorized public official.
   PUBLIC PLACE. Includes any street, sidewalk, park, cemetery, school yard,
body of water or watercourse, public conveyance, or any other place for the
sale of merchandise, public accommodation, or amusement.
   REAL PROPERTY. Includes lands, tenements, and hereditaments.
   REAR YARD. The area extending across the full width of any residential lot
in the city and measured between the rear lot line and the rear line of the
building or structure of such lot.
   REGULAR ELECTION. The election in even-numbered years at which members of
Congress are elected, and the election in odd-numbered years at which state
officers are elected.
(KRS 446.010(34))
   SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory.
(KRS 446.010(36))
   SIDE YARD. The area extending from the front yard to the rear yard and
measured between the side line of any residential lot in the city and the side
of the building or structure on such lot.
   SIDEWALK. That portion of the street between the curb line and the adjacent
property line intended for the use of pedestrians.
   STATE. The Commonwealth of Kentucky.
   STREET. Includes alleys, avenues, boulevards, lanes, roads, highways,
viaducts, and all other public thoroughfares within the city.
   SUBCHAPTER. A division of a chapter, designated in this code by a heading in
the chapter analysis and a capitalized heading in the body of the chapter,
setting apart a group of sections related by the subject matter of the heading.
Not all chapters have SUBCHAPTERS.
   SWORN. Includes affirmed in all cases in which an affirmation may be
substituted for an oath.
(KRS 446.010(40))
   TENANT or OCCUPANT. As applied to premises, includes any person holding a
written or oral lease, or who actually occupies the whole or any part of the
premises, alone or with others.
   VACANCY IN OFFICE. Exists when there is an unexpired part of a term of
office without a lawful incumbent therein, when the person elected or appointed
to an office fails to qualify according to law, or when there has been no
election to fill the office at the time appointed by law; it applies whether
the vacancy is occasioned by death, resignation, removal from the state,
county, city, or district, or otherwise.
(KRS 446.010(43))
   VIOLATE. Includes failure to comply with.
(KRS 446.010(44))
   YEAR. Calendar year.
(KRS 446.010(46))
(1996 Code, § 1-1.01)
§ 10.03 RULES OF CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   Singular includes plural. A word importing the singular number only
may extend and be applied to several persons or things, as well as to one
person or thing, and a word importing the plural number only may extend and be
applied to one person or thing as well as to several persons or things.
(KRS 446.020(1))
   (B)   Masculine includes feminine. A word importing the masculine gender
only may extend and be applied to females as well as males.
(KRS 446.020(2))
   (C)   Liberal construction. All sections of this code shall be liberally
construed with a view to promote their objects and carry out the intent of
Council.
(KRS 446.080(1))
   (D)   Retroactivity. No ordinance shall be construed to be retroactive,
unless expressly so declared.
(KRS 446.080(3))
   (E)   Technical terms. All words and phrases shall be construed according to
the common and approved usage of language, but technical words and phrases and
others as may have acquired a peculiar and appropriate meaning in the law,
shall be construed according to that meaning.
(KRS 446.080(4))
§ 10.04 COMPUTATION OF TIME.
   (A)   (1)   In computing any period of time prescribed or allowed by order
of court, or by any applicable ordinance or regulation, the day of the act,
event, or default after which the designated period of time begins to run is
not to be included.
      (2)   The last day of the period so computed is to be included, unless it
is a Saturday, a Sunday, a legal holiday, or a day on which the public office
in which a document is required to be filed is actually and legally closed, in
which event the period runs until the end of the next day which is not one of
the days just mentioned.
      (3)   When the period of time prescribed or allowed is less than seven
days, intermediate Saturdays, Sundays, and legal holidays shall be excluded in
the computation.
   (B)   When an ordinance, regulation, or order of court requires an act to be
done either a certain time before an event or a certain time before the day on
which an event occurs, the day of the event shall be excluded in computing the
time. If the day thereby computed on which or by which the act is required to
be done falls on a Saturday, Sunday, legal holiday, or a day on which the
public office in which the act is required to be completed is actually and
legally closed, the act may be done on the next day which is none of the days
just mentioned.
   (C)   If any proceeding is directed by law to take place, or any act is
directed to be done, on a particular day of a month and that day is Sunday, the
proceeding shall take place, or the act shall be done, on the next day that is
not a legal holiday.
(KRS 446.030)
   (D)   In all cases where the law requires any act to be done in a reasonable
time or reasonable notice to be given, REASONABLE TIME or NOTICE shall mean the
time only as may be necessary for the prompt performance of the duty or
compliance with the notice.
§ 10.05 MAJORITY MAY ACT FOR ALL; AUTHORIZED AGENT.
   (A)   Words giving authority to three or more public officers or other
persons shall be construed as giving the authority to a majority of the
officers or other persons.
(KRS 446.050)
   (B)   When the law requires an act to be done which may by law as well be
done by an agent as by the principal, the requirement shall be construed to
include those acts when done by an authorized agent.
§ 10.06 WRITINGS AND SIGNATURES.
   (A)   When this code requires any writing to be signed by a party thereto,
it shall not be deemed to be signed unless the signature is subscribed at the
end or close of the writing.
   (B)   Every writing contemplated by this code shall be in the English
language.
(KRS 446.060)
§ 10.07 SEVERABILITY.
   It shall be considered that it is the intent of Council in enacting any
ordinance, that if any part of the ordinance be held unconstitutional the
remaining parts shall remain in force, unless the ordinance provides otherwise,
or unless the remaining parts are so essentially and inseparably connected with
and dependent upon the unconstitutional part that it is apparent that Council
would not have enacted the remaining parts without the unconstitutional part;
or unless the remaining parts, standing alone, are incomplete and incapable of
being executed in accordance with the intent of Council.
(KRS 446.090)
§ 10.08 REVIVOR.
   (A)   A repealed ordinance without a delayed effective date is revived when
the ordinance that repealed it is repealed by another ordinance enacted at the
same meeting of Council.
   (B)   A repealed ordinance with a delayed effective date is revived by the
enactment of a repealer of the ordinance that repealed it at the same or any
subsequent meeting of Council as long as it takes effect prior to the effective
date of the original repealer.
   (C)   An amended ordinance without a delayed effective date remains
unchanged with respect to an amendment which is repealed at the same meeting of
Council which enacted the amendment.
   (D)   An amended ordinance with a delayed effective date remains unchanged
with respect to that amendment if the ordinance making the amendment is
repealed at the same or at a subsequent meeting of Council, as long as the
repealing ordinance takes effect prior to the effective date of the original
amendment.
   (E)   No other action of Council repealing a repealer or an amendment shall
have the effect of reviving the original language of the repealer or amendment,
as the case may be.
(KRS 446.100)
§ 10.09 RIGHTS AND LIABILITIES ACCRUING BEFORE REPEAL OF ORDINANCE.
   No new ordinance shall be construed to repeal a former ordinance as to any
offense committed against a former ordinance, nor as to any act done, or
penalty, forfeiture, or punishment incurred, or any right accrued or claim
arising under the former ordinance, or in any way whatever to affect any
offense or act so committed or done, or any penalty, forfeiture, or punishment
so incurred, or any right accrued or claim arising before the new ordinance
takes effect, except that the proceedings thereafter had shall conform, so far
as practicable, to the laws in force at the time of the proceedings. If any
penalty, forfeiture, or punishment is mitigated by any provision of the new
ordinance, the provision may, by the consent of the party affected, be applied
to any judgment pronounced after the new ordinance takes effect.
(KRS 446.110)
§ 10.10 CONSTRUCTION OF SECTION REFERENCES.
   (A)   Wherever in a penalty section reference is made to a violation of a
section or an inclusive group of sections, the reference shall be construed to
mean a violation of any provision of the section or sections included in the
reference.
   (B)   References in the code to action taken or authorized under designated
sections of the code include, in every case, action taken or authorized under
the applicable legislative provision which is superseded by this code.
   (C)   Whenever in one section reference is made to another section hereof,
the reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified, or renumbered, unless the subject matter be
changed or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
§ 10.11 ORDINANCES REPEALED.
   This code, from and after its effective date, shall contain all of the
provisions of a general nature pertaining to the subjects herein enumerated and
embraced. All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated by this code
shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date of this code of
ordinances.
§ 10.12 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature, and all other ordinances
pertaining to subjects not enumerated and embraced in this code of ordinances,
shall remain in full force and effect unless herein repealed expressly or by
necessary implication.
§ 10.13 ORDINANCES SAVED.
   Whenever an ordinance by its nature either authorizes or enables the
Council, or a certain city officer or employee, to make additional ordinances
or regulations for the purpose of carrying out the intent of the ordinance, all
ordinances and regulations of a similar nature serving the purpose effected
prior to the codification and not inconsistent thereto shall remain in effect
and are saved.
§ 10.14 AMENDMENTS TO CODE; AMENDATORY LANGUAGE.
   Any chapter, section, or division amended or added to this code by
ordinances passed subsequent to this code may be numbered in accordance with
the numbering system of this code and printed for inclusion herein. Any
chapter, section, or division repealed by subsequent ordinances may be excluded
from this code by omission from reprinted pages. Subsequent ordinances as
printed or omitted shall be prima facie evidence of the subsequent ordinances
until Council shall adopt a new code of ordinances.
§ 10.15 CONFLICTING PROVISIONS.
   If the provisions of different codes, chapters, or sections of the codified
ordinances conflict with or contravene each other, the provisions bearing the
latest passage date shall prevail. If the conflicting provisions bear the same
passage date, the conflict shall be so construed as to be consistent with the
meaning or legal effect of the questions of the subject matter taken as a
whole.
§ 10.16 REFERENCE TO OFFICES.
   Reference to a public office or officer shall be deemed to apply to any
office, officer, or employee of the city exercising the powers, duties, or
functions contemplated in the provision, irrespective of any transfer of
functions or change in the official title of the functionary.
§ 10.17 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   (A)   If a manifest error be discovered, consisting of the misspelling of
any word or words, the omission of any word or words necessary to express the
intention of the provisions affected, the use of a word or words to which no
meaning can be attached, or the use of a word or words when another word or
words was clearly intended to express the intention, the spelling shall be
corrected, and the word or words supplied, omitted, or substituted as will
conform with the manifest intention, and the provision shall have the same
effect as though the correct words were contained in the text as originally
published.
   (B)   No alteration shall be made or permitted if any question exists
regarding the nature or extent of the error.
§ 10.18 HISTORICAL AND STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   As histories for the code sections, the specific number and passage
date of the original ordinance, and the amending ordinances, if any, are listed
following the text of the code section. Example:
(Ord. 10, passed 5-13-1960; Ord. 15, passed 1-1-1970; Ord. 20, passed 1-1-1980;
Ord. 25, passed 1-1-1985)
   (B)   If a KRS cite is included in the history, this indicates that the text
of the section reads word-for-word the same as the statute. Example:
(KRS 83A.090)
   (C)   If a KRS cite is set forth as a “statutory reference” following the
text of the section, this indicates that the reader should refer to that
statute for further information. Example:
      § 39.01 PUBLIC RECORDS AVAILABLE.
         This municipality shall make available to any person for inspection or
copying all public records, unless otherwise exempted by state law.
      Statutory reference:
         Inspection of public records, see KRS 61.870 et seq.
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   (A)   Where an act or omission is prohibited or declared unlawful in this
code of ordinances, and no penalty is otherwise provided, the offense shall be
deemed a violation, and the offender shall be fined a maximum fine of $150 if
uncontested, and a maximum civil fine of $300 if contested. Each day a
violation occurs shall constitute a separate offense. All past due civil fines
are also subject to monthly interest of 1.5%, court costs and costs associated
with collection.
   (B)   Each day’s violation shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 7, Series 2007, passed 7-16-2007)
Statutory references:
   Enforcement of ordinances, see KRS 83A.065
   Maximum fine for violations, see KRS 534.040(2)(c)
CHAPTER 11: CORPORATE BOUNDARIES
Section
   
11.01   Corporate boundaries
§ 11.01 CORPORATE BOUNDARIES.
   The corporate boundaries as of the latest annexation and as evidenced by the
map filed by the city in the office of the County Clerk and the office of the
Secretary of State are as follows:
   (A)   Beginning at a point in the east side of Preston Street Road 200 feet
more or less North of the north side of the intersection of Audubon Parkway and
Preston Street Road, running thence in a southerly direction along the Eastern
side of Preston Street Road 850 feet more or less to the intersection of the
Southern Railway right-of-way and Preston Street Road; thence along the
northerly line of the Southern Railway right-of-way 1,350 feet more or less to
the intersection of the southern railway right- of-way and the southerly line
of Cardinal Drive; thence with the southerly line of Cardinal Drive in an
easterly direction 2,600 feet more or lees to a point 280 feet easterly of the
easterly line of Dove Road at the intersection with Cardinal Drive; thence in a
northerly direction in a line parallel with the easterly line of lot # 287 of
Audubon Park, a plat of which is recorded in Plot and Subdivision Book 8, Pages
143-144-145, in the Office of the Clerk of the County Court, Jefferson County,
Kentucky, 250 feet more or less to a point in the Southerly line of Lot # 60,
Block 208 in said Audubon Park, 283 feet more or less East of the East line of
Dove Road, thence in a Southwesterly direction along the Southerly line of said
lot 60, block 208, 283 feet more or less to a point in the Easterly line of
Dove Road; thence with the Easterly line of Dove Road, in a Northwesterly
direction 900 feet more or less to a point at the Northeast corner of the
intersection of Dove Road and Chickadee Road; thence along the Easterly line of
Chickadee Road 1,575 feet more or less to a point at the Southeast corner of
the intersection of Chickadee Road and Hess Lane; thence along the southerly
line of Hess Lane 725 feet more or less to a point where said line would be
intersected by the back lines of lots 187 to 190-A, inclusive Block 111,
Audubon Park, if extended in a northerly direction, thence with said back lines
as extended, in a southerly direction 625 feet more or less to a point in the
back line of said lot 187, Block 111, Audubon Park where said line is met by
the back lines of lot numbers, 2 to 18 inclusive, Block 111, Audubon Park,
thence with said back lines in a southwesterly direction 1,725 feet more or
less to a point of beginning.
(Original incorporation - April 17, 1941.)
   (B)   Beginning at a point 250 feet easterly of the Easterly line of Dove
Road at the intersection of Cardinal Drive, thence in a northerly direction in
a line parallel with the easterly line of Lot No. 287 Audubon Park, a plat of
which is recorded in Plot and Subdivision Book 7, Pages 143, 144, and 145, in
the Office of the Clerk of the County Court of Jefferson, County, Kentucky 250
feet more or less to a point in the southerly line of Lot. No. 60, block 208 in
said Audubon Park, 283 feet more or less east of the east line of Dove Road;
thence in a Southwesterly direction along the Southerly line of said lot 60,
Block 208, 283 feet more or less to a point in the Easterly line of Dove Road;
then to a northwesterly direction 900 feet more or less to a point in the
northeasterly corner of the intersection of Dove Road and Chickadee Road;
thence along the easterly line of Chickadee Road 1,575 feet more or less, to a
point is the Southeast corner of the intersection of Chickadee Road and Hess
Lane; thence along the southerly line of Hess Lane in an easterly direction to
the intersection of the westerly line of Eagle Pass Avenue; thence in a
southwardly direction with said line of Eagle Pass Avenue to the northerly line
of Nightingale Road; thence along the Northerly line of Nightingale Road to the
intersection with Cardinal Drive; thence along the easterly line of Cardinal
Drive to the point of beginning.
(Annexation - September 8, 1941.)
   (C)   Beginning at a point in the southerly line of Hess Lane and the
western line of Eagle Pass; thence in a southerly direction along said western
line of Eagle Pass to the Northerly line of Valley Drive; thence in an eastern
direction along the northerly line of Valley Drive; approximately 190 feet to
the rear property line of the property facing on Eagle Pass; thence northerly
along said property line to the southerly line of Hess Lane; thence in a
westerly direction along the southern line of Hess Lane and to the point of
beginning.
(Annexation - November 4, 1944.)
(1996 Code, § 3-2.01)
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/032ecbe7f6e38ad9bf3eb1c176c312da2a273c7c/
IMAGES/0-0-0-601.png]
 
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   CITY COUNCIL
      
31.   CITY ORGANIZATION
      
32.   CODE OF ETHICS
CHAPTER 30: CITY COUNCIL
Section
   
30.01   Governmental structure
   
30.02   Regular and special or emergency meetings; place of meetings
   
30.03   Quorum
§ 30.01 GOVERNMENTAL STRUCTURE.
   The city shall operate under the Mayor-Council plan of government as
prescribed by KRS 83A.130.
§ 30.02 REGULAR AND SPECIAL OR EMERGENCY MEETINGS; PLACE OF MEETINGS.
   The City Council shall hold regular meetings on the third Monday of each
month, except when it will meet one day later in order to observe federal
holidays. Regular meetings shall be held at City Hall at 6:00 p.m. Regular,
special, and emergency meetings shall be announced and conducted as prescribed
by the Commonwealth Open Meetings Act, KRS 61.800 through 61.850.
(Ord. 6, Series 2014, passed 9-15-2014; Ord. 6, Series 2022, passed 9-19-2022)
§ 30.03 QUORUM.
   A majority of the members of the City Council shall constitute a quorum.
(1996 Code, § 3-3.05)
CHAPTER 31: CITY ORGANIZATION
Section
City Officials and Organization
   
31.01   Elected officials
   
31.02   Appointed officials
   
31.03   Liability
Police Department
   
31.15   Establishment of Department
   
31.16   Qualifications of members of Police Department
   
31.17   Chief of Police selection; term of office; compensation
   
31.18   Duties of Chief of Police
   
31.19   Powers of Chief of Police and police officers; fees; deputies; special
police
   
31.20   Bond of Chief of Police, deputies, and police officers
   
31.21   Oaths of police officers
   
31.22   Territorial authority to police
Code Enforcement Board
   
31.35   Definitions
   
31.36   Creation and membership
   
31.37   Powers
   
31.38   Appointment of members; term of office; removal from office; oath;
compensation; alternate members
   
31.39   Organization of Board; meetings and quorum
   
31.40   Conflict of interest
   
31.41   Jurisdiction
   
31.42   Powers of the Code Enforcement Board
   
31.43   Enforcement proceedings
   
31.44   Hearing; notice; final order
   
31.45   Presentation of case and legal counsel
   
31.46   Appeal; final judgment
   
31.47   Lien; fines; charges and fees
   
31.48   Effective date
Parks and Recreation Board
   
31.60   Parks and recreation development
   
31.61   Parks and Recreation Board
   
31.99   Penalty
CITY OFFICIALS AND ORGANIZATION
§ 31.01 ELECTED OFFICIALS.
   Election of the Mayor and six Councilors shall be nonpartisan, and shall be
conducted as prescribed in KRS 83A.045(2)(b), which provides for forgoing
nonpartisan primary election, and permitting candidates to file for election up
to the second Tuesday in August preceding the general election.
§ 31.02 APPOINTED OFFICIALS.
   (A)   The following offices are established to provide for the orderly
conduct of the executive powers and duties listed and otherwise required by
law. The Mayor shall appoint qualified persons to fill these offices under his
or her authority, subject to confirmation by the Council. Upon assuming office,
these officials shall take the oath of office given in Section 228 of the
Constitution.
      (1) Clerk. The City Clerk is the chief provider of administrative
services and support. In addition to the duties prescribed in KRS 83A.085, the
Clerk shall provide informational materials and respond to inquiries from
citizens; conduct liaison with administrative offices of metropolitan, state
and federal governments; prepare tax rolls from property valuation data and
other sources, and conduct the city’s tax collection effort; compile materials
for, and participate in and prepare minutes of Council meetings, hearings and
other events as required; facilitate application for and issue of city permits
by appropriate authorities; and prepare correspondence and reports in
furtherance of the city’s obligations and interests. The Clerk shall give bond
in the amount of $10,000.
      (2)   Treasurer. The City Treasurer is the principal fiscal officer. The
Treasurer shall compile budgetary plans and programs for consideration by the
Mayor and Council; convey approved budgets into detailed reports for monitoring
and oversight; account for, allocate and deposit incoming revenue; validate
ongoing expenditures by department and pay the resulting obligations; monitor
all cash flows and balances to insure liquidity in the designated city funds;
oversee and coordinate supporting bookkeeping activity and payroll services;
and compile materials for and conduct liaison with annual and other auditors
reviewing city fiscal affairs. The Treasurer shall give bond in the amount of
$10,000.
      (3)   Attorney. The City Attorney is the chief legal advisor to the
Mayor, Council, and other city officials as required. The attorney shall review
and revise on matters of legal import including legislation, litigation,
contracts and insurance; prepare legal documentation and conduct prosecution or
defense of the city’s interests in court; maintain liaison and coordination
with other legal staff designated to represent the city by insurers or other
authorities; oversee the adequacy, viability and sustainability of the city’s
body of ordinances and regulations; and conduct liaison and research within the
legal community to expose and develop ideas and initiatives that may serve the
city’s interests.
      (4)   Engineer. The City Engineer serves as the professional advisor and
manager of programs to sustain and enhance the city’s infrastructure. The
engineer shall maintain an inventory of road conditions; solicit bids and
collect proposals for repairs requiring contract support; assess needs for
maintenance and restoration of other city facilities and structures; identify
and catalogue issues of continuing engineering interest such as drainage, power
supply and distribution, lighting, traffic signaling and control; conduct
liaison with government agencies and utility providers to secure needed support
of city interests; and oversee execution of contract and other work in areas of
need.
      (5)   Chief of Police and members of the police force. The Chief of
Police is the principal law enforcement officer, supported by a small
accredited force of professional officers. In addition to the powers and duties
prescribed by KRS 95.480, the Chief of Police (or a designated officer) shall
attend and maintain order at all Council meetings; plan, conduct and document
necessary recurring training to maintain Kentucky Peace Officer Professional
Standards and associated accreditation; schedule and conduct patrols to provide
an ongoing presence in the city, and such other jurisdictions as interlocal
agreements may include; maintain strict accountability of police equipment and
other property; and conduct liaison with neighboring law enforcement agencies
and state and federal authorities to share resources, exchange ideas, and
pursue programs to enhance safety in the city. The Chief of Police shall give
bond in the amount of $10,000.
      (6)   Archivist. The City Archivist is the chief architect, developer and
manager, in collaboration with the City Clerk, of a comprehensive system of
paper and electronic records that comprise the city archive. The Archivist
shall inventory and catalog existing historical collections; organize materials
in conformance with the file structure and retention schedule prescribed by the
state Archives and Records Commission; identify and seek to procure secure
storage equipment to protect paper records, and complementary hardware and
software for electronic records; conduct liaison with local educational and
civic organizations to acquire expertise and assistance to adopt best
practices; and develop and implement an architecture to optimize recordkeeping
resources and platforms in support of the city’s operational and archival
needs.
      (7)   Forester. The City Forester serves as the lead agent, in
collaboration with the Forest Board, for maintenance and enhancement of the
city’s urban forest. The Forester shall assist in the inventory, selection and
management of tree species; act on applications for permits required by the
Forest Code, and oversee resulting activities; identify and direct abatement of
tree hazards and nuisances; and conduct liaison in the professional community
to gain exposure to new ideas and programs to promote the education of
citizenry and sustainment of the forest.
      (8)   Director of Building. The City Building Director is the principal
official charged with implementing the city’s building code. The director shall
review plans and specifications requiring city permits; issue, or recommend
denial of such building permits and certificates; conduct inspections of
building projects; recommend revisions or enhancements of the building code;
maintain records and make reports; and perform such other services as may
further the purposes of the building code and the Overlay District regulations
it contains.
      (9)   Code Enforcement Officer. The Code Enforcement Officer is the
principal official charged with enforcement of the city’s code of ordinances
and nuisances. The Code Enforcement Officer shall warn or cite offenders,
review permits and codes, maintain records, compile reports, and perform other
services as may further the purposes of the code of ordinances.
   (B)   Each official shall perform such additional duties as the Mayor may
assign. The offices of Clerk and Treasurer may be consolidated at the Mayor’s
discretion.
   (C)   City government also includes four boards whose composition and duties
are detailed in the successive Codes they administer:
      (1)   Ethics: Title III,
Chapter 32;
      (2)   Parks and Recreation: Title III,
Chapter 31;
      (3)   Forest: Title IX,
Chapter 93; and
      (4)   Code Enforcement: Title III,
Chapter 31.
§ 31.03 LIABILITY.
   Any city official charged with the enforcement of any ordinance of the city,
acting in good faith and without malice for the city in the discharge of his or
her duties, shall not thereby render himself or herself personally liable, and
he or she is hereby relieved from all personal liability for damage that may
accrue to persons or property as a result of any act required or by reason of
any act or omission performed by him or her in the enforcement of any
provisions of an ordinance of this city, and shall have the right to be
defended by the City Attorney until final determination of any proceeding
pending against him or her.
(1996 Code, § 3-4.04)
POLICE DEPARTMENT
§ 31.15 ESTABLISHMENT OF DEPARTMENT.
   (A)   A Police Department is hereby established whose members shall be
appointed by the Mayor. Officers are subject to removal as set forth in KRS
15.520 and Ord. 4.
   (B)   The legislative body shall provide for officers’ number, grades, and
regulation by majority vote of such body.
(1996 Code, § 3-5.01)
§ 31.16 QUALIFICATIONS OF MEMBERS OF POLICE DEPARTMENT.
   (A)   To be eligible for appointment as a member of the Police Department a
person must be a citizen of the commonwealth and a resident of the county; be
at least 21 years of age; be able to read and write the English language
intelligently; be sober, moral, and sagacious; and shall have a high school
education or equivalent.
   (B)   No person who has been convicted of a felony is eligible for
appointment.
(1996 Code, § 3-5.02)
§ 31.17 CHIEF OF POLICE SELECTION; TERM OF OFFICE; COMPENSATION.
   (A)   The Mayor shall appoint a Chief of Police. This appointment is subject
to confirmation by the legislative body.
   (B)   (1)   The Chief of Police may be removed only for cause after
following the procedures set forth in KRS 15.520 and Ord. 4.
      (2)   There shall be no set term of office for the Chief of Police.
   (C)   The compensation of the Chief of Police shall be fixed by the Mayor
and approved by the legislative body.
(1996 Code, § 3-5.03)
§ 31.18 DUTIES OF CHIEF OF POLICE.
   (A)   The Chief of Police shall command and supervise the Police Department,
but shall be required to keep the Mayor advised of the status pertaining to the
Department.
   (B)   The Chief of Police or his or her designee shall attend all sessions
of the legislative body, execute its orders, and preserve order at its session.
   (C)   The Chief of Police, or a member of the Police Department designated
by him or her shall attend any session of District Court when it is necessary
for the Department to be represented and execute all process, orders, and
judgments of the court, as directed by the Court.
   (D)   The Chief of Police and every member of the Police Department shall
follow the Code of Conduct and policy and procedures of the City Police
Department.
(1996 Code, § 3-5.04)
§ 31.19 POWERS OF CHIEF OF POLICE AND POLICE OFFICERS; FEES; DEPUTIES; SPECIAL
POLICE.
   (A)   (1)   The Chief of Police and every member of the Police Department
shall posses all the common law and statutory powers of constables and
sheriffs.
      (2)   They may exercise those powers, including the power of arrest for
offenses against the state, anywhere in the county in which the city is
located.
   (B)   The Chief of Police and members of the Police Department shall be
entitled to the same fees, and the same remedies for collecting them that are
allowed by law to sheriffs and other officers for similar services; however,
such fees shall be paid into the City Treasury.
   (C)   The Mayor, upon request from the Chief of Police, may appoint special
police officers to assist the Police Department.
(1996 Code, § 3-5.05)
§ 31.20 BOND OF CHIEF OF POLICE, DEPUTIES, AND POLICE OFFICERS.
   (A)   The Chief of Police upon entering the duties of his or her office
shall execute bond. The bond shall be in the sum of $2,000.
   (B)   (1)   The bond shall run to the state, and shall be with good surety,
approved by the legislative body.
      (2)   The bond shall be conditioned for the faithful discharge of the
duties of the office and for payment of all money received to the person
entitled thereto.
      (3)   For any unlawful arrest or unnecessary or cruel treatment or
assault in making an arrest, the principal and sureties shall be liable on his
or her bond to the person injured.
   (C)   Police officers shall not be required to make bond.
(1996 Code, § 3-5.06)
§ 31.21 OATHS OF POLICE OFFICERS.
   Every member of the Police Department shall take an oath to faithfully
perform the duties of his or her office, and that he or she possesses the
qualifications required by §
31.16.
(1996 Code, § 3-5.07)
§ 31.22 TERRITORIAL AUTHORITY TO POLICE.
   The Chief of Police and members of the Police Department may make arrests
anywhere in the county in which the city is located.
(1996 Code, § 3-5.08)
CODE ENFORCEMENT BOARD
§ 31.35 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CODE ENFORCEMENT BOARD. An administrative body created and acting under the
authority of the Local Government Code Enforcement Board Act, being KRS 65.8801
through 65.8839. References in this subchapter to the BOARD shall be to the
CODE ENFORCEMENT BOARD.
   CODE ENFORCEMENT OFFICER. A city police officer, safety officer, citation
officer, or other public law enforcement officer with the authority to issue a
citation.
   NUISANCE. Unlawful and prohibited public conditions described in Chapter 92.
   ORDINANCE. An official action of a local government body, which is a
regulation of a general and permanent nature and enforceable as local law and
shall include any provision of a code of ordinances adopted by the City Council
which embodies all or part of the ordinance.
(Ord. 5, Series 2007, passed 7-16-2007)
§ 31.36 CREATION AND MEMBERSHIP.
   There is hereby created, pursuant to KRS 65.8801 through KRS 65.8839 within
the city, a Code Enforcement Board which shall be composed of three members,
each of whom shall be a resident of the city for a period of at least one year
prior to the later of:
   (A)   The creation of the Code Enforcement Board; and
   (B)   His or her appointment to the Code Enforcement Board, and shall reside
there throughout his or her respective term in office.
(Ord. 5, Series 2007, passed 7-16-2007)
§ 31.37 POWERS.
   (A)   The Code Enforcement Officer and Code Enforcement Board shall have the
power to issue remedial orders and impose civil fines as a method of enforcing
city ordinances when a violation of the ordinance has been classified as a
civil offense.
   (B)   The Code Enforcement Board shall not have the authority to enforce any
ordinance the violation of which constitutes an offense under any provision of
the Kentucky Revised Statutes, including specifically, any provision of the
Commonwealth Penal Code, being KRS Chapters 500 through 534 and any moving
motor vehicle offense.
(Ord. 5, Series 2007, passed 7-16-2007)
§ 31.38 APPOINTMENT OF MEMBERS; TERM OF OFFICE; REMOVAL FROM OFFICE; OATH;
COMPENSATION; ALTERNATE MEMBERS.
   (A)   Members of the Code Enforcement Board shall be appointed by the Mayor
of the city, subject to the approval of the City Council.
   (B)   (1)   The initial appointments to the Code Enforcement Board shall be
as follows:
         (a)   One member appointed to a one-year term;
         (b)   One member appointed to a two-year term; and
         (c)   One member appointed to a three-year term.
      (2)   All subsequent appointments shall be for a term of three years. A
member may be reappointed, subject to the approval of the City Council.
   (C)   The Mayor may appoint, subject to the approval of the City Council,
two alternate members to serve on the Code Enforcement Board in the absence of
regular members. Alternate members shall meet all of the qualifications and
shall be subject to all of the requirements that apply to regular members of
the Code Enforcement Board.
   (D)   Any vacancy on the Board shall be filled by the Mayor, subject to
approval of the City Council within 60 days of vacancy. If the vacancy is not
filled within that time period, the remaining Code Enforcement Board members
shall fill the vacancy.
   (E)   A Code Enforcement Board member may be removed from office by the
Mayor for misconduct, inefficiency, or willful neglect of duty. The Mayor must
submit by a written statement to the member and the City Council setting forth
the reasons for removal.
   (F)   All members of the Code Enforcement Board must, before entering upon
the duties of their office, take the oath of office prescribed by § 228 of the
Constitution of the commonwealth.
   (G)   Members of the Code Enforcement Board shall be reimbursed for actual
expenses, but shall otherwise be uncompensated.
   (H)   No member of the Code Enforcement Board may hold any elected or
nonelected office, paid or unpaid, or any position of employment with the city.
(Ord. 5, Series 2007, passed 7-16-2007)
§ 31.39 ORGANIZATION OF BOARD; MEETINGS AND QUORUM.
   (A)   The Board shall annually elect a Chairperson from among its members.
The Chairperson shall be the presiding officer and a full voting member of the
Board.
   (B)   Regular meetings of the Code Enforcement Board shall be held on the
third Tuesday of every month, unless there is no docket for such scheduled
meeting. Meetings other than those regularly scheduled shall be considered
special meetings and shall be held in accordance with the requirements of the
Commonwealth Open Meetings Act, being KRS 61.800 through 61.850.
   (C)   All meetings and hearings of the Code Enforcement Board shall be held
in accordance with the requirements of KRS 65.8815(5) and the Commonwealth Open
Meetings Act, being KRS 61.800 through 61.850.
   (D)   The affirmative vote of a majority of a quorum of the Board shall be
necessary for any official action to be taken.
   (E)   Minutes shall be kept for all proceedings of the Code Enforcement
Board and the vote of each member on any issue decided by the Board shall be
recorded in the minutes.
(Ord. 5, Series 2007, passed 7-16-2007)
§ 31.40 CONFLICT OF INTEREST.
   Any member of the Code Enforcement Board who has any direct or indirect
financial or personal interest in any matter to be decided, shall disclose the
nature of the interest and shall disqualified himself or herself from voting on
the matter in which he or she has an interest and shall not be counted for
purposes of establishing a quorum.
(Ord. 5, Series 2007, passed 7-16-2007)
§ 31.41 JURISDICTION.
   The Code Enforcement Officer or Code Enforcement Board shall have
jurisdiction to enforce and shall enforce those city ordinances and code
provisions which specifically provide for Code Enforcement Board enforcement or
which contain provisions for the imposition of civil penalties.
(Ord. 5, Series 2007, passed 7-16-2007)
§ 31.42 POWERS OF THE CODE ENFORCEMENT BOARD.
   The City Code Enforcement Board shall have the following powers and duties:
   (A)   To adopt rules and regulations to govern its operations and the
conduct of its hearings;
   (B)   To conduct hearings to determine if there has been a violation of an
ordinance over which it has jurisdiction;
   (C)   To subpoena alleged violators, witnesses, and evidence to its
hearings. Subpoenas issued by the Code Enforcement Board may be served by any
Code Enforcement Officer;
   (D)   To take testimony under oath. The Chairperson shall have the authority
to administer oaths for the purpose of taking testimony;
   (E)   To make findings of fact and issue orders necessary to remedy any
violation of a city ordinance or code provision which the Board is authorized
to enforce; and
   (F)   To impose civil fines, as authorized, on any person found to have
violated an ordinance over which the Board has jurisdiction.
(Ord. 5, Series 2007, passed 7-16-2007)
§ 31.43 ENFORCEMENT PROCEEDINGS.
   The following requirements shall govern all enforcement proceedings before
the Board.
   (A)   Enforcement proceedings before the Code Enforcement Board shall only
be initiated by the issuance of a citation by a Code Enforcement Officer.
   (B)   Except as provided in division (C) below, if a Code Enforcement
Officer believes, based on his or her personal observation or investigation,
that a person has violated a city ordinance, he or she shall issue a notice of
violation to the offender allowing the offender a specified period of time to
remedy the violation without fine. If the offender fails or refuses to remedy
the violation within the time specified, the Code Enforcement Officer is
authorized to issue a citation.
   (C)   Nothing in this subchapter shall prohibit the city from taking
immediate action to remedy a violation of its ordinances when there is reason
to believe that the violation presents a serious threat to the public health,
safety, and welfare, or that, in the absence of immediate action, the effects
of the violation will be irreparable or irreversible.
   (D)   The person to whom the citation is issued shall respond to the
citation within seven days of the date of issuance by either paying the civil
fine or requesting, in writing, a hearing before the Code Enforcement Board to
contest the citation. If the person fails to respond to the citation within
seven days, the person shall be deemed to have waived the right to a hearing
and the determination that a violation was committed shall be considered final.
   (E)   If the alleged violator does not contest the citation within the time
prescribed, the Code Enforcement Board shall enter a final order determining
that the violation was committed and impose the civil fine set forth in the
citation. A copy of the final order shall be served on the person guilty of the
violation.
(Ord. 5, Series 2007, passed 7-16-2007)
§ 31.44 HEARING; NOTICE; FINAL ORDER.
   (A)    When a hearing has been requested, the Code Enforcement Board shall
schedule a hearing. The hearing shall be conducted within 30 days of the
request, unless the requester wants or agrees to a continuance not to exceed 30
days.
   (B)   Not less than seven days before the date of the hearing, the Code
Enforcement Board shall notify the requester of the date, time, and place of
the hearing. The notice may be given by certified mail, return receipt
requested, by personal delivery, or by leaving the notice at the person’s usual
place of residence with any individual residing therein who is 18 years of age
or older and who is informed of the contents of the notice.
   (C)   Any person requesting a hearing before the Code Enforcement Board who
fails to appear at the time and place set for the hearing shall be deemed to
have waived the right to a hearing to contest the citation and the
determination that a violation was committed shall be final. The Code
Enforcement Board shall enter a final order determining the violation was
committed and shall impose the civil fine set forth in the citation or provide
orders for compliance or prohibitions as may be authorized by law. A copy of
the final order shall be served upon the person guilty of the violation.
   (D)   All testimony shall be taken under oath and recorded. Testimony shall
be taken from the Code Enforcement Officer, the alleged violator, and any
witnesses to the violation offered by the Code Enforcement Officer or alleged
violator. Formal rules of evidence shall not apply, but fundamental due process
shall be observed and shall govern the proceedings.
   (E)   The Code Enforcement Board shall, based on the evidence, determine
whether a violation was committed. If it determines that no violation was
committed, an order dismissing the citation shall be entered. If it determines
that a violation was committed, an order shall be issued upholding the citation
and either imposing a fine up to the maximum authorized by this or other
ordinances or requiring the offender to remedy a continuing violation, or both.
   (F)   Every final order of the Code Enforcement Board shall be reduced to
writing, which shall include the date the order was issued. A copy shall be
furnished to the person named in the citation. If the person named in the
citation is not present when the final order is issued, the order shall be
delivered in accordance with the procedures set forth in division (B) above.
(Ord. 5, Series 2007, passed 7-16-2007)
§ 31.45 PRESENTATION OF CASE AND LEGAL COUNSEL.
   (A)   Each case before the Code Enforcement Board shall be presented by an
attorney selected by the Mayor.
   (B)   The City Attorney may either be counsel to the Code Enforcement Board
or may present cases before the Code Enforcement Board, but in no case shall he
or she serve in both capacities.
(Ord. 5, Series 2007, passed 7-16-2007)
§ 31.46 APPEAL; FINAL JUDGMENT.
   (A)    (1)   An appeal from any final order of the Code Enforcement Board
may be made to the County District Court within 30 days of the date the order
was issued.
      (2)   The appeal shall be initiated by the filing of a complaint and a
copy of the Code Enforcement Board’s order in the same manner as any civil
action under the Commonwealth Rules of Civil Procedure.
   (B)   If no appeal from a final order of the Code Enforcement Board is filed
within the time period set in division (A) above, the Code Enforcement Board’s
order shall be deemed final for all purposes.
(Ord. 5, Series 2007, passed 7-16-2007)
§ 31.47 LIEN; FINES; CHARGES AND FEES.
   (A)   The city shall possess a lien on property owned by the persons found
by a final, non- appealable order of the Code Enforcement Board, or by a final
judgment of the court, to have committed a violation of a city ordinance for
all fines assessed for the violation and for all charges and fees incurred by
the city in connection with the enforcement of the ordinance.
   (B)   (1)   The lien shall be recorded in the office of the County Clerk.
      (2)   The lien shall be notice to all persons from the time of its
recording and shall bear interest until paid.
   (C)   The lien shall take precedence over all other subsequent liens, except
state, county, school board, and city taxes, and may be enforced by judicial
proceedings.
(Ord. 5, Series 2007, passed 7-16-2007) Penalty, see §
31.99
§ 31.48 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This subchapter shall become effective passage, approval, and summary
publication as required by law.
(Ord. 5, Series 2007, passed 7-16-2007)
PARKS AND RECREATION BOARD
§ 31.60 PARKS AND RECREATION DEVELOPMENT.
   The city’s parks and other public spaces being the anchor points for
activities that promote and reinforce the unique cohesiveness and spirit of
this community, this subchapter provides a structure and mechanism to channel
the energy resources of the city to advance its development and implementation.
(Ord. 5, Series 2014, passed 9-15-2014)
§ 31.61 PARKS AND RECREATION BOARD.
   (A)   A City Parks and Recreation Board is established under the authority
of KRS 97.030, to develop and oversee park resources, and to plan and conduct
activities using these and other public spaces for the betterment of the
community.
   (B)   The Board shall include five members appointed by the Mayor, with the
advice and consent of the City Council. Members shall serve terms of four
years, or until their successor are appointed, except that initial appointments
to establish staggered rotation shall be one of one year, one of two years, one
of three years, and two of four years. Members shall choose officers among
themselves on an annual basis, including, as a minimum, a Chairperson and
recording Secretary.
   (C)   The Board shall meet the first Monday of each month at 7:00 p.m. at
City Hall, or as otherwise decided by its members. Meetings shall be open to
the public, with proper notice and access as prescribed the Commonwealth Open
Meetings Act, KRS 61.800 through 61.850. Minutes shall be taken and furnished
to the City Clerk for archiving, and a summary report shall be provided at each
ensuing meeting of the City Council.
   (D)   The Board shall be responsible for the following:
      (1)   Planning and executing the acquisition of equipment and facilities
to enhance recreational use of city public spaces;
      (2)   Coordinating closely with the City Forest Board to ensure
complimentary development and use of natural recreational resources;
      (3)   Managing budgets provided by the City Council to equip, maintain,
and utilize public recreational facilities;
      (4)   Soliciting and accepting grants, bequests, and gifts in support of
its purposes, for integration by the Council into the city budget development
and execution;
      (5)   Planning, organizing, and executing community recreational and
support activities in coordination with the efforts of individual volunteers
and non-governmental groups; and
      (6)   Developing and maintaining comprehensive files of planning factors,
points of contact, lessons learned, best practices, and proposed directions for
the city’s activities program.
(Ord. 5, Series 2014, passed 9-15-2014)
§ 31.99 PENALTY.
   Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter constitutes a
civil offense, subject to a maximum civil fine of $150 if uncontested, and a
maximum civil fine of $300 if contested. Each day a violation occurs shall
constitute a separate offense. All past due fines are also subject to monthly
interest of 1.5%, court costs, and costs associated with collection.
CHAPTER 32: CODE OF ETHICS
Section
General Provisions
   
32.001   Title
   
32.002   Findings
   
32.003   Purpose and authority
   
32.004   Definitions
   
32.005   Effective date
Standards of Conduct
   
32.020   Conflicts of interests in general
   
32.021   Conflicts of interests in contracts
   
32.022   Receipt of gifts
   
32.023   Use of city property, equipment, and personnel
   
32.024   Representation of interests before city government
   
32.025   Misuse of confidential information
Financial Disclosure
   
32.040   Who must file
   
32.041   When to file statements; amended statements
   
32.042   Form of the statement of financial interests
   
32.043   Control and maintenance of the statement of financial interests
   
32.044   Contents of the statement of financial interests
   
32.045   Noncompliance with filing requirement
Nepotism
   
32.060   Nepotism
Enforcement
   
32.075   Board of Ethics created
   
32.076   Alternate members
   
32.077   Power and duties of the Board of Ethics
   
32.078   Filing and investigation of complaints
   
32.079   Notice of hearings
   
32.080   Hearing procedure
   
32.081   Appeals
   
32.082   Limitations of actions
   
32.083   Advisory opinions
   
32.084   Reprisals against persons disclosing violations prohibited
 
   
32.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 32.001 TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the “City of Audubon Park
Code of Ethics”.
(Ord. 4, passed 12-19-1994)
§ 32.002 FINDINGS.
   The City Council finds and declares the following.
   (A)   Public office and employment with the city are public trusts.
   (B)   The vitality and stability of the government of this city depends upon
the public’s confidence in the integrity of its elected and appointed officers
and employees. Whenever the public perceives a conflict between the private
interests and the public duties of a city officer or employee, that confidence
is imperiled.
   (C)   The government of this city has a duty to provide its citizens with
the standards by which they may determine whether public duties are being
faithfully performed, and to make its officers and employees aware of the
standards which the citizenry rightfully expects them to comply with while
conducting their public duties.
(Ord. 4, passed 12-19-1994)
§ 32.003 PURPOSE AND AUTHORITY.
   (A)   It is the purpose of this chapter to provide a method of assuring that
the standards of ethical and financial disclosure requirements for officers and
employees of the city shall be clearly established, uniform in their
application, and enforceable, and to provide the officers and employees of the
city with advice and information concerning potential conflicts of interest
which might arise in the conduct of their public duties.
   (B)   It is the further purpose of this chapter to meet the requirements of
KRS Ch. 65 as enacted by the 1994 Commonwealth General Assembly.
   (C)   This chapter is enacted under the power vested in the city by KRS
82.082 and pursuant to requirements of KRS Ch. 65.
(Ord. 4, passed 12-19-1994)
§ 32.004 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUSINESS. Any corporation, partnership, sole proprietorship, firm,
enterprise, franchise, association, organization, self-employed individual,
holding company, joint stock company, receivership, trust, professional service
corporation, or any legal entity through which business is conducted for
profit.
   BOARD OF ETHICS. The City Board of Ethics which is created and vested by
this chapter with the responsibility of enforcing the requirements of the
city’s code of ethics.
   CANDIDATE. Any individual who seeks nomination or election to a city office.
An individual is a CANDIDATE when the individual files a notification and
declaration for nomination for office with the County Clerk or Secretary of
State, or is nominated for office by a political party, or files a declaration
of intent to be a write-in candidate with the County Clerk or Secretary of
State.
   CITY. The City of Audubon Park, Kentucky.
   CITY AGENCY. Any board, commission, authority, nonstock corporation, or
other entity created, either individually or jointly, by the city.
   EMPLOYEE. Any person, whether full-time or part-time, and whether paid or
unpaid, who is employed by or provides service to the city. The term EMPLOYEE
shall not include any contractor or subcontractor or any of their employees.
   FAMILY MEMBERS. A spouse, parent, child, brother, sister, mother-in-law,
father-in-law, son-in-law, daughter-in-law, grandparent, or grandchild.
   IMMEDIATE FAMILY MEMBER. A spouse, an unemancipated child residing in the
officer’s or employee’s household, or a person claimed by the officer or
employee, or the officer’s or employee’s spouse, as a dependent for tax
purposes.
   OFFICER. Any person, whether full-time or part-time, and whether paid or
unpaid, who is one of the following:
      (1)   The Mayor;
      (2)   A city Council member;
      (3)   Any person who occupies a nonelected office created under KRS
83A.080; or
      (4)   A member of the governing body of any city agency who has been
appointed to the governing body of the agency by the city.
(Ord. 4, passed 12-19-1994)
§ 32.005 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This chapter shall take full force and effect immediately upon publication
as required by KRS 83A.060.
(Ord. 4, passed 12-19-1994)
STANDARDS OF CONDUCT
§ 32.020 CONFLICTS OF INTERESTS IN GENERAL.
   Every officer and employee of the city and every city agency shall comply
with the following standards of conduct.
   (A)   No officer or employee, or any immediate family member of any officer
or employee, shall have an interest in a business or engage in any business,
transaction, or activity which is in substantial conflict with the proper
discharge of the officer’s or employee’s public duties.
   (B)   No officer or employee shall intentionally use or attempt to use his
or her official position with the city to secure unwarranted privileges or
advantages for himself, herself, or others.
   (C)   No officer or employee shall intentionally take or refrain from taking
any discretionary action, or agree to take or refrain from taking any
discretionary action, or induce or attempt to induce any other officer or
employee to take or refrain from taking any discretionary action, on any matter
before the city in order to obtain a financial benefit for any of the
following:
      (1)   The officer or employee;
      (2)   A family member;
      (3)   An outside employer; or
      (4)   Any business in which the officer or employee, or any family member
has a financial interest.
   (D)   No officer or employee shall be deemed in violation of any provision
in this section if, by reason of the officer’s or employee’s participation,
vote, decision, action, or inaction, no financial benefit accrues to the
officer or employee, a family member, an outside employer, or as a member of
any business, occupation, profession, or other group, to any greater extent
than any gain could reasonably be expected to accrue to any other member of the
business, occupation, profession, or other group.
   (E)   Every officer or employee who has a prohibited financial interest
which the officer or employee believes or has reason to believe may be affected
by his or her participation, vote, decision, or other action taken within the
scope of his or her public duties shall disclose the precise nature and value
of the interest, in writing, to the governing body of the city or city agency
served by the officer or employee, and the disclosure shall be entered on the
official record of the proceedings of the governing body. The officer or
employee shall refrain from taking any action with respect to the matter that
is the subject of the disclosure.
(Ord. 4, passed 12-19-1994) Penalty, see §
32.999
§ 32.021 CONFLICTS OF INTERESTS IN CONTRACTS.
   (A)   No officer or employee of the city or any city agency shall directly
or through others undertake, execute, hold, or enjoy, in whole or in part, any
contract made, entered into, awarded, or granted by the city or a city agency,
except as follows.
      (1)   The prohibition in this division (A) shall not apply to contracts
entered into before an elected officer filed as a candidate for city office,
before an appointed officer was appointed to a city or city agency office, or
before an employee was hired by the or a city agency; however, if any contract
entered into by a city or city agency officer or employee before he or she
became a candidate, was appointed to office, or was hired as an employee, is
renewable after he or she becomes a candidate, assumes the appointed office, or
is hired as an employee, then the prohibition in this division (A)(1) shall
apply to the renewal of the contract.
      (2)   The prohibition in this division (A)(2) shall not apply if the
contract is awarded after public notice and competitive bidding, unless the
officer or employee is authorized to participate in establishing the contract
specifications, awarding the contract, or managing contract performance after
the contract is awarded. If the officer or employee has any of the authorities
set forth in the preceding sentence, then the officer or employee shall have no
interest in the contract, unless the requirements set forth in division (A)(3)
below are satisfied.
      (3)   The prohibition in this division (A)(3) shall not apply in any case
where the following requirements are satisfied.
         (a)   The specific nature of the contract transaction and the nature
of the officer’s or employee’s interest in the contract are publicly disclosed
at a meeting of the governing body of the city or city agency.
         (b)   The disclosure is made a part of the official record of the
governing body of the city or city agency before the contract is executed.
         (c)   A finding is made by the governing body of the city or city
agency that the contract with the officer or employee is in the best interest
of the public and the city or city agency because of price, limited supply, or
other specific reasons.
         (d)   The finding is made a part of the official record of the
governing body of the city or city agency before the contract is executed.
   (B)   Any violation of this section shall constitute a Class A misdemeanor,
and upon conviction, the court may void any contract entered into in violation
of this section. Additionally, a violation of this section shall be grounds for
removal from office or employment with the city in accordance with any
applicable provision of state law and ordinances, rules, or regulations of the
city.
(Ord. 4, passed 12-19-1994) Penalty, see §
32.999
§ 32.022 RECEIPT OF GIFTS.
   No officer or employee of the city or any city agency shall directly, or
indirectly through any other person or business, solicit or accept any gift
having a fair market value of more than $200, whether in the form of money,
service, loan, travel, entertainment, hospitality, thing, or promise, or any
other form, under circumstances in which it could reasonably be inferred that
the gift was intended to influence, or could reasonably be expected to
influence the officer or employee in the performance of his or her public
duties.
(Ord. 4, passed 12-19-1994) Penalty, see §
32.999
§ 32.023 USE OF CITY PROPERTY, EQUIPMENT, AND PERSONNEL.
   No officer or employee of the city shall use or permit the use of any city
time, funds, personnel, equipment, or other personal or real property for the
private use of any person, unless:
   (A)   The use is specifically authorized by a stated city policy; or
   (B)   The use is available to the general public, and then only to the
extent and upon the terms that such use is available to the general public.
(Ord. 4, passed 12-19-1994) Penalty, see §
32.999
§ 32.024 REPRESENTATION OF INTERESTS BEFORE CITY GOVERNMENT.
   (A)   No officer or employee of the city or any city agency shall represent
any person or business, other than the city, in connection with any cause,
proceeding, application, or other matter pending before the city or any city
agency.
   (B)   Nothing in this section shall prohibit an employee from representing
another employee or employees where the representation is within the context of
official labor union or similar representational responsibilities.
   (C)   Nothing in this section shall prohibit any officer or employee from
representing himself or herself in matters concerning his or her own interests.
   (D)   No elected officer shall be prohibited by this section from making any
inquiry for information on behalf of a constituent, if no compensation, reward,
or other thing of value is promised to, given to, or accept by the officer,
whether directly or indirectly, in return for the inquiry.
(Ord. 4, passed 12-19-1994) Penalty, see §
32.999
§ 32.025 MISUSE OF CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION.
   No officer or employee of the city or any city agency shall intentionally
use or disclose information acquired in the course of his or her official
duties if the primary purpose of the use or disclosure is to further his or her
personal financial interest or that of another person or business. Information
shall be deemed confidential, if it is not subject to disclosure pursuant to
the Commonwealth Open Records Act, KRS 61.872 to 61.884, at the time of its use
or disclosure.
(Ord. 4, passed 12-19-1994) Penalty, see §
32.999
FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE
§ 32.040 WHO MUST FILE.
   Officers and employees of the city and city agencies, as such terms are
defined in §
32.004, shall file an annual statement of financial interests with the Board of
Ethics; provided; however, that nonelected officers and employees of the city
or any city agency shall be required to file an annual statement of financial
interests only if they are authorized to make purchases of materials or
services, or award contracts, leases, or agreements involving the expenditure
of more than $5,000.
(Ord. 4, passed 12-19-1994)
§ 32.041 WHEN TO FILE STATEMENTS; AMENDED STATEMENTS.
   (A)   The initial statement of financial interests required by this section
shall be filed with the Board of Ethics, or the administrative official
designated as the custodian of its records by the Board of Ethics, no later
than 5:00 p.m. on January 31 each year; provided, the following.
      (1)   An officer or employee newly appointed to fill an office or
position of employment with the city or a city agency shall file his or her
initial statement no later than 30 days after the date of the appointment.
      (2)   A candidate for city office shall file his or her initial statement
no later than 30 days after the date on which the person becomes a candidate
for elected city office.
   (B)   The Board of Ethics may grant a reasonable extension of time for
filing a statement of financial interests for good cause shown.
   (C)   In the event there is a material change in any information contained
in a financial statement that has been filed with the Board, the officer or
employee shall, no later than 30 days after becoming aware of the material
change, file an amended statement with the Board.
(Ord. 4, passed 12-19-1994)
§ 32.042 FORM OF THE STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL INTERESTS.
   The statement of financial interests shall be on a form prescribed by the
Board of Ethics, or the administrative official designated by the Board of
Ethics. The Board, or the designated administrative official, shall deliver a
copy of the form to each officer and employee required to file the statement by
first class mail or hand delivery no later than January 1 of each year. The
failure of the Board, or the designated administrative official, to deliver a
copy of the form to any officer or employee shall not relieve the officer or
employee of the obligation to file the statement.
(Ord. 4, passed 12-19-1994)
§ 32.043 CONTROL AND MAINTENANCE OF THE STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL INTERESTS.
   (A)   The Board of Ethics shall be the official custodian of the statements
of financial interests and shall have control over the maintenance of the
statements of financial interests. The statements of financial interests shall
be maintained by the Board of Ethics, or the administrative official designated
by the Board of Ethics as the custodian, as public documents available for
public inspection immediately upon filing.
   (B)   A statement of financial interests shall be retained by the Board, or
the designated administrative official, until the expiration of one year after
a person ceases to be an officer or employee of the city or a city agency, at
which time the Board shall cause to be destroyed any statements of financial
interests or copies of those statements filed by the person.
   (C)   A statement of financial interests shall be retained by the Board, or
the designated administrative official, until the expiration of one year after
any election at which a candidate for elected city office was not elected or
nominated, at which time the Board shall cause to be destroyed any statements
of financial interests or copies of those statements filed by the person.
(Ord. 4, passed 12-19-1994)
§ 32.044 CONTENTS OF THE STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL INTERESTS.
   (A)   The statement of financial interests shall include the following
information for the preceding calendar year:
      (1)   The name, current business address, business telephone number, and
home address of the filer;
      (2)   Title of the filer’s office, office sought, or position of
employment;
      (3)   Occupation and employer of the filer;
      (4)   Information that identifies each source of income other than
employment of the filer and the filer’s immediate family members exceeding
$15,000 during the preceding calendar year, and the nature of the income (e.g.,
commission, dividends, and the like), except that no filer shall be required to
specify the amount of such income, and no filer shall be required to disclose
income that is derived from Social Security, retirement funds, disability
insurance, maintenance or child support, or income from any business or other
source which is not currently doing business with the city, has not done
business with the city in the preceding year, and/or is not currently seeking
to do business with the city; and
      (5)   The name and address of any business located within or outside the
state in which the filer or any immediate family member of the filer had,
during the preceding calendar year, an interest exceeding $15,000 at fair
market value, or an ownership interest of 5% or more, except that no filer
shall be required to disclose an ownership interest in any business which is
not currently doing business with the city, has not done business with the city
in the preceding year, and/or is not currently seeking to do business with the
city.
   (B)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to require an officer or
employee to disclose any specific dollar amount nor the names of individual
clients or customers of businesses listed as sources of income.
(Ord. 4, passed 12-19-1994)
§ 32.045 NONCOMPLIANCE WITH FILING REQUIREMENT.
   The Board of Ethics, or the designated administrative official, shall notify
by certified mail each person required to file a statement of financial
interests who fails to file the statement by the due date, files an incomplete
statement, or files a statement in a form other than that prescribed by the
Board. The notice shall specify the type of failure or delinquency, shall
establish a date by which the failure or delinquency shall be remedied, and
shall advise the person of the penalties for a violation.
(Ord. 4, passed 12-19-1994) Penalty, see §
32.999
NEPOTISM
§ 32.060 NEPOTISM.
   No family member of a city officer or employee shall be appointed to any
office or position of employment with the city or a city agency if such officer
or employee will have responsibility, directly or directly, to supervise,
manage, or control the work of the family member without disclosure to and
approval by the City Council, with such approval being noted in the official
minutes.
(Ord. 4, passed 12-19-1994) Penalty, see §
32.999
ENFORCEMENT
§ 32.075 BOARD OF ETHICS CREATED.
   (A)   There is hereby created a Board of Ethics which shall have the
authorities, duties, and responsibilities as set forth in this chapter to
enforce the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   The Board of Ethics shall consist of three members who shall be
appointed by the Mayor, subject to the approval of the City Council. The
initial members of the Board of Ethics shall be appointed within 60 days of the
effective date of this chapter. No member of the Board of Ethics shall hold any
elected or appointed office, whether paid or unpaid, or any position of
employment with the city or any city agency. The members shall serve for a term
of three years; except that with respect to the members initially appointed,
one member shall be appointed for a term of one year, one member shall be
appointed for a term of two years, and one members shall be appointed for a
term of three years. Thereafter, all appointments shall be for a term of three
years. Each member of the Board of Ethics shall have been a resident of the
city for at least one year prior to the date of the appointment and shall
reside in the city throughout the term in office. The members of the Board of
Ethics shall be chosen by virtue of their known and consistent reputation for
integrity and their knowledge of local government affairs. The members may be
reappointed for any number of consecutive terms.
   (C)   A member of the Board of Ethics may be removed by the Mayor, subject
to the approval of the City Council, for misconduct, inability, or willful
neglect of duties. Before any member of the Board of Ethics is removed from
office under this section, the member shall be afforded the opportunity for a
hearing before the Mayor and the City Council.
   (D)   Vacancies on the Board of Ethics shall be filled within 60 days by the
Mayor, subject to the approval of the City Council. If a vacancy is not filled
by the Mayor within 60 days, the remaining members of the Board of Ethics shall
fill the vacancy. All vacancies shall be filled for the remainder of the
unexpired term.
   (E)   Members of the Board of Ethics shall serve without compensation,
unless otherwise approved by the legislative body, but shall be reimbursed for
all necessary and reasonable expenses incurred in the performance of their
duties.
   (F)   The Board of Ethics shall, upon the initial appointment of its
members, and annually thereafter, elect a Chairperson from among the
membership. The Chairperson shall be the president officer and a full voting
member of the Board.
   (G)   Meetings of the Board of Ethics shall be held, as necessary, upon the
call of the Chairperson or at the written request of a majority of the members.
   (H)   The presence of all three members shall constitute a quorum and the
affirmative vote of two or more members shall be necessary for any official
action to be taken. Any member of the Board of Ethics who has a conflict of
interest with respect to any matter to be considered by the Board shall
disclose the nature of the conflict, shall disqualify himself or herself from
voting on the matter, and shall not be counted for purposes of establishing a
quorum.
   (I)   Minutes shall be kept for all proceedings of the Board of Ethics and
the vote of each member on any issue decided by the Board shall be recorded in
the minutes.
(Ord. 4, passed 12-19-1994)
§ 32.076 ALTERNATE MEMBERS.
   The Mayor, with the approval of the City Council, may appoint two alternate
members of the Board of Ethics who may be called upon to serve when any regular
member of the Board is unable to discharge his or her duties. An alternate
member shall be appointed for a term of one year. Alternate members shall meet
all qualifications and be subject to all of the requirements of this chapter
that apply to regular members.
(Ord. 4, passed 12-19-1994)
§ 32.077 POWER AND DUTIES OF THE BOARD OF ETHICS.
   The Board of Ethics shall have the following powers and duties:
   (A)   To receive and investigate complaints, hold hearings, and make
findings of fact and determinations with regard to alleged violations of the
provisions of this chapter;
   (B)   To adopt rules and regulations and to take other actions, as
necessary, to implement the provisions of this chapter; provided, that the
rules, regulations, and actions are not in conflict with the provisions of this
chapter or any state or federal law;
   (C)   To refer any information concerning violations of this chapter to the
Mayor, the City Council, the governing body of any city agency, the County
Attorney, or other appropriate person or body, as necessary;
   (D)   To render advisory opinions to city and city agency officers and
employees regarding whether a given set of facts or circumstances would
constitute a violation of any provision of this chapter;
   (E)   To enforce the provisions of this chapter with regard to all officers
and employees of the city and city agencies who are subject to its terms by
issuing appropriate orders;
   (F)   To control and maintain all statements of financial interests that are
required to be filed by this chapter and to ensure that the statements are
available for public inspection in accordance with the requirements of this
chapter and the Commonwealth Open Records Act; and/or
   (G)   To develop and submit any reports regarding the conduct of its
business that may be required by the executive authority or legislative body of
the city.
(Ord. 4, passed 12-19-1994)
§ 32.078 FILING AND INVESTIGATION OF COMPLAINTS.
   (A)   (1)   All complaints alleging any violation of the provisions of this
chapter shall be submitted to the Board of Ethics, or the administrative
official designated by the Board of Ethics.
      (2)   All complaints shall be in writing, signed by the complainant, and
shall meet any other requirements established by the Board of Ethics.
      (3)   The Board shall forward within ten working days to each officer or
employee of the city or city agency who is the subject of the complaint a copy
of the complaint and a general statement of the applicable provisions of this
chapter.
   (B)   (1)   Within 30 days of the receipt of a proper complaint, the Board
of Ethics shall conduct a preliminary inquiry concerning the allegations
contained in the complaint.
      (2)   The Board shall afford a person who is the subject of the complaint
an opportunity to respond to the allegations in the complaint.
   (C)   All proceedings and records relating to a preliminary inquiry being
conducted by the Board of Ethics shall be confidential until a final
determination is made by the Board, except the following.
      (1)   The Board may turn over to the Commonwealth Attorney or County
Attorney evidence which may be used in criminal proceedings.
      (2)   If the complainant or alleged violator publicly discloses the
existence of a preliminary inquiry, the Board may publicly confirm the
existence of the inquiry, and, at its discretion, make public any documents
which were issued to either party.
   (D)   If the Board of Ethics concludes, based upon its preliminary inquiry,
that the complaint is within its jurisdiction and contains allegations
sufficient to establish a minimal factual basis to constitute a violation, the
Board shall notify the officer or employee who is the subject of the complaint
and may:
      (1)   Due to mitigating circumstances, issue a written confidential
reprimand to the officer or employee concerning the alleged violation and
provide a copy of the confidential reprimand to the Mayor and City Council or
governing body of the city agency; or
      (2)   Initiate a hearing to determine whether there has been a violation.
(Ord. 4, passed 12-19-1994) Penalty, see §
32.999
§ 32.079 NOTICE OF HEARINGS.
   (A)   If the Board of Ethics determines that a hearing regarding allegations
contained in the complaint is necessary, the Board shall issue an order setting
the matter for a hearing.
   (B)   The order setting the matter for hearing, along with a copy of any
pertinent regulations of the Board relating to the hearing shall be sent to the
alleged violator.
(Ord. 4, passed 12-19-1994)
§ 32.080 HEARING PROCEDURE.
   (A)   The Commonwealth Rules of Civil Procedure and the Commonwealth Rules
of Evidence shall not apply to hearings conducted by the Board of Ethics;
however, the hearings shall be conducted in accordance with this section and in
accordance with any additional rules and regulations adopted by the Board so as
to afford all parties the full range of due process rights required by the
nature of the proceedings.
   (B)   Prior to the commencement of the hearing, the alleged violator, or his
or her representative, shall have a reasonable opportunity to examine all
documents and records obtained or prepared by the Board in connection with the
matter to be heard. The Board shall inform the alleged violator, or his or her
representative, of any exculpatory evidence in its possession.
   (C)   Any person whose name is mentioned during the hearing and who may be
adversely affected thereby may appear personally before the Board, with or
without counsel, to give a statement regarding the adverse mention, or may file
a written statement regarding the adverse mention for incorporation into the
record of the proceeding.
   (D)   All hearings of the Board of Ethics shall be public, unless the
members vote to go into executive session in accordance with KRS 61.810.
   (E)   After the conclusion of the hearing, the Board of Ethics shall, as
soon as practicable, begin deliberations in executive session for the purpose
of reviewing the evidence before it and making a determination whether a
violation of this chapter has been proven. The Board shall issue a written
report of its findings and conclusions.
   (F)   If the Board concludes in its report that no violation of this chapter
has occurred, it shall immediately send written notice of this determination to
the officer or employee who was the subject of the complaint and to the party
who filed the complaint.
   (G)   If the Board concludes in its report that in consideration of the
evidence produced at the hearing there is clear and convincing proof of a
violation of this chapter, the Board may take any action it deems necessary,
including, but not limited to, issuing a cease and desist order, issuing a
written public reprimand, recommending a specific discipline, including
dismissal or removal from office, or referring criminal evidence to the proper
authority.
(Ord. 4, passed 12-19-1994)
§ 32.081 APPEALS.
   (A)   Any person who is found guilty of a violation of any provision of this
chapter by the Board of Ethics may appeal the finding to the City Council
within 30 days after the date of the final action by the Board of Ethics by
filing a petition with the City Council against the Board.
   (B)   The Board shall transmit to the City Clerk all evidence considered by
the Board at the public hearing.
(Ord. 4, passed 12-19-1994)
§ 32.082 LIMITATIONS OF ACTIONS.
   Except when the period of limitation is otherwise established by state law,
an action for a violation of this chapter must be brought within one year after
the violation is discovered.
(Ord. 4, passed 12-19-1994)
§ 32.083 ADVISORY OPINIONS.
   (A)   The Board of Ethics may render advisory opinions concerning matters
under its jurisdiction, based upon real or hypothetical facts and
circumstances, upon its own initiative, or when requested by any officer or
employee of the city or a city agency who is covered by this chapter.
   (B)   An advisory opinion shall be requested in writing and shall state
relevant facts and ask specific questions. The request for an advisory opinion
shall remain confidential unless confidentiality is waived, in writing, by the
requestor.
(Ord. 4, passed 12-19-1994)
§ 32.084 REPRISALS AGAINST PERSONS DISCLOSING VIOLATIONS PROHIBITED.
   No officer or employee of the city or any city agency shall be subject to
reprisal, or directly or indirectly use, or threaten to use, any official
authority or influence in any manner whatsoever which tends to discourage,
restrain, deter, prevent, interfere with, coerce, or discriminate against any
person who in good faith reports, discloses, divulges, or otherwise brings to
the attention of the Board of Ethics or any other agency or official of the
city or the commonwealth any facts or information relative to an actual or
suspected violation of this chapter.
(Ord. 4, passed 12-19-1994)
§ 32.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   In addition to all other penalties which may be imposed under this
chapter, any officer or employee of the city or any city agency who is found by
the Board of Ethics to have violated any provision of this chapter shall
forfeit to the city or the city agency an amount equal to the economic benefit
or gain which the officer or employee is determined by the Board to have
realized as a result of the violation. The amount of any forfeiture may be
recovered by the city in a civil action in the nature of debit, if the offender
fails to pay the amount of the forfeiture within a 30-day period by the Board
of Ethics.
   (B)   In addition to all other penalties which may be imposed under this
chapter, a finding by the Board of Ethics that an officer or employee of the
city or any city agency is guilty of a violation of this chapter shall be
sufficient cause for removal, suspension, demotion, or other disciplinary
action by the executive authority of the city or city agency, or by any other
officer or agency having the power of removal or discipline. Any action to
remove or discipline any officer or employee for a violation of this chapter
shall be taken in accordance with all applicable ordinances and regulations of
the city and all applicable laws of the commonwealth.
   (C)   Any person who knowingly files with the Board a false complaint
pursuant to §
32.078 alleging a violation of any provision this chapter by an officer or
employee of the city or any city agency shall be guilty of a Class A
misdemeanor.
(Ord. 4, passed 12-19-1994)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   HEALTH AND SANITATION
CHAPTER 50: HEALTH AND SANITATION
Section
General Provisions
   
50.01   Title
Water
   
50.15   Water flow
   
50.16   Impure liquids
Sewers
   
50.30   Maintenance provided
   
50.31   Discharge of stormwater into sanitary sewer prohibited
   
50.32   Discharge of sewage into storm sewers prohibited
 
   
50.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 50.01 TITLE.
   This chapter may be known as the “Health and Sanitation Code”.
(1996 Code, § 13-1.02)
WATER
§ 50.15 WATER FLOW.
   No person shall change or effect the flow of water across or under property
within the city without first obtaining a permit and permission from MSD.
(1996 Code, § 13-2.01) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.16 IMPURE LIQUIDS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to throw, pour, or permit, or cause to
be run over any sidewalk or street within the city, or any part thereof any
slop; refuse matter of any kind; filthy, soiled, or hot water; steam water of
any kind; impure liquids or liquids or offal of any kind; or to permit any
person in his or her employ to do so.
(1996 Code, § 13-2.02) Penalty, see §
50.99
SEWERS
§ 50.30 MAINTENANCE PROVIDED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to maintain a privy vault, cesspool, or
similar contrivance for the reception of human excreta within the city.
(1996 Code, § 13-3.01) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.31 DISCHARGE OF STORMWATER INTO SANITARY SEWER PROHIBITED.
   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any stormwater, surface
water, ground water, roof-runoff, subsurface drainage, cellar drainage of
ground water origin, cooling water, or unpolluted water or drainage to or into
any sanitary sewer, without the express written consent of the legislative body
and the Louisville Department of Health and County Department of Health.
(1996 Code, § 13-3.03) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.32 DISCHARGE OF SEWAGE INTO STORM SEWERS PROHIBITED.
   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged into the storm sewers
within the city, any sanitary sewage, combinations of stormwater and sanitary
sewage, garbage, solid food wastes, leaves, trash, debris, water, or other
liquid containing solids or suspended solids.
(1996 Code, § 13-3.04) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter shall be fined not
less than $25 nor more than $100, plus court costs as may be imposed. Each
day’s continued violation shall constitute a separate offense.
(1996 Code, § 13-99.01)
   (B)   If this fee is not paid within 30 days, there will be a $25 late fee
added to the original fine.
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
71.   PARKING REGULATIONS
      
72.   PARKING SCHEDULES
CHAPTER 70: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
70.01   Definitions
   
70.02   Kentucky Motor Vehicle Code
   
70.03   Failure to comply with parking citation attached to parked vehicle
   
70.04   Powers of legislative body; designation of traffic-control devices and
signals
   
70.05   Placement of official traffic-control devices
 
   
70.99   Penalty
§ 70.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICE. Any device, placed on or along streets, used to
change the structure or design of the street in order to provide for the safe
and/or efficient movement of road users, including but not limited to signs,
signals, pavement markings, and speed bumps.
§ 70.02 KENTUCKY MOTOR VEHICLE CODE.
   The Kentucky Motor Vehicle Code, as contained in Title XVI of the Kentucky
Revised Statutes, is adopted by reference as if fully set forth in this code of
ordinances.
§ 70.03 FAILURE TO COMPLY WITH PARKING CITATION ATTACHED TO PARKED VEHICLE.
   If a violator of the restrictions on stopping, standing, or parking under
this title does not pay the minimum fine listed on the parking citation within
30 days from the issuance date, the fine shall increase by $25. If payment is
not received within 60 days from the issuance date, the Chief of Police, or
his/her designee, shall send to the owner of the vehicle to which the parking
citation was affixed a certified letter, informing the owner of the violation
and warning that, if in the event of such letter is disregarded, a criminal
complaint can be filed with the Jefferson District Court.
(1996 Code, § 5-2.08) Penalty, see §
70.99
Cross-reference:
   Parking regulations, see
Chapter 71
§ 70.04 POWERS OF LEGISLATIVE BODY; DESIGNATION OF TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES AND
SIGNALS.
   (A)   The legislative body may, by ordinance or resolution at any regular or
special meeting, designate and determine parking and loading zones for
passenger and freight vehicles; establish traffic lanes, safety zones, and
quiet zones; determine and fix the angle of and time limit for parking upon
streets and parts thereof; adopt rules prohibiting or allowing double parking:
determine and designate one-way streets, no-parking areas, and limited parking
areas; place and maintain traffic-control devices and signals where it may deem
necessary to regulate traffic; determine and designate those intersections at
which vehicles shall not make right, left, or U turns; make rules governing
pedestrian crossing of streets and street intersections; and make any other
rules and regulations as it may deem necessary to regulate traffic and the use
of, or temporary closing of streets.
   (B)   (1)   Such ordinances, resolutions, rules, and regulations adopted
from time to time by the legislative body shall be spread at large upon the
minutes of the legislative body and published as required by law, shall be open
to public inspection at all times, and shall be the laws of the city governing
such traffic regulations.
      (2)   Any person who violates any of the provisions hereof shall be
subject to punishment as hereinafter provided.
(1996 Code, § 5-4.02) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.05 PLACEMENT OF OFFICIAL TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES.
   The legislative body shall in its sole authority by resolution cause
official traffic-control devices to be erected and maintained to indicate to
the public traffic regulations on the streets in the city.
(1996 Code, § 5-4.03)
§ 70.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to do any act forbidden, or fail
to perform any act required by this chapter. Whoever violates any provision of
this chapter where no other penalty is specifically provided shall be fined not
less than $25, nor more than $100, plus court costs as may be imposed.
(1996 Code, § 5-99.01)
   (B)   Any fine not paid within 30 days will be subject to an additional $25
late fee added to the original fine.
CHAPTER 71: PARKING REGULATIONS
Section
   
71.01   Stopping, standing, or parking prohibited (no signs required)
   
71.02   All-night parking prohibited
   
71.03   Front yard parking prohibited
   
71.04   Exterior parking of vehicles and non-operating vehicles
   
71.05   Parking signs required
   
71.06   Parking on paved portion of roadway
 
   
71.99   Penalty
§ 71.01 STOPPING, STANDING, OR PARKING PROHIBITED (NO SIGNS REQUIRED).
   At any time it shall be unlawful for any person to permit any motor vehicle
to stop, stand, or park in the following places, except when necessary to avoid
conflict with other traffic or in compliance with the direction of a police
officer or official traffic-control device:
   (A)   On a sidewalk;
   (B)   In front of or within 4 feet of a public or private driveway;
   (C)   Within an intersection;
   (D)   Within 15 feet of a fire hydrant;
   (E)   On a crosswalk;
   (F)   Within 30 feet of an intersection;
   (G)   Within 30 feet of an official traffic-control device original on the
approaching side;
   (H)   At any place where the standing of a vehicle will impede or block the
free passage and flow of traffic on a roadway;
   (I)   In any area within the city designated as a public park area pursuant
to §
90.050; or
   (J)   At any place where official signs prohibit parking, stopping, or
standing.
(1996 Code, § 5-6.01) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.02 ALL-NIGHT PARKING PROHIBITED.
   No person shall park any vehicle on any street within the city or any
parking area adjacent to such street other than a driveway for any period of
time between the hours of 2:00 a.m. and 6:00 a.m., of any day, except with the
permission from the Mayor or his or her designeee.
(1996 Code, § 5-6.02) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.03 FRONT YARD PARKING PROHIBITED.
   No person shall park any vehicle on any portion of the front yard of any
private residential lot within the city except on the driveway of such
residential lot.
(1996 Code, § 5-6.03) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.04 EXTERIOR PARKING OF VEHICLES AND NON-OPERATING VEHICLES.
   (A)   No person shall permit any commercial vehicle to remain or be parked
on any property within the city unless such vehicle is in an enclosed building
or so located upon the property as not to be readily visible from any street or
adjoining property, except that this section shall not apply to any truck or
other motor vehicle used for commercial or business purposes parked upon such
property or street adjacent to such property at the time when the owner or
driver of such motor vehicle is furnishing goods or services to the owner or
occupant of such property.
   (B)   No person shall permit any truck not described as a commercial vehicle
in this title or any recreational vehicle to remain or be parked on any
property within the city unless such vehicle is in an enclosed building or
located to the rear of the dwelling on such property and not readily visible
from the street, except that this section shall not apply to any recreational
vehicle remaining or parked on such property for the purpose of loading or
unloading such vehicle or otherwise preparing the same for immediate
recreational use.
   (C)   A motor vehicle of any type that is inoperable or that cannot be
legally operated upon the streets or roadways of the city or the county shall
not remain or be parked longer than 30 days on any property within the city
unless such vehicle is in an enclosed building.
(1996 Code, § 5-6.04) (Ord. 5 Series 1999, passed 7-19-1999) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.05 PARKING SIGNS REQUIRED.
   Except as provided in §
71.01, whenever parking is prohibited on designated streets or areas in the
city, the legislative body shall cause the erection of appropriate signs giving
notice thereof.
(1996 Code, § 5-6.06)
§ 71.06 PARKING ON PAVED PORTION OF ROADWAY.
   No person shall stand or park a vehicle in a roadway other than parallel
with the edge of the roadway headed in the direction of lawful traffic movement
and with the right-hand wheels of the vehicle on the paved portion of the
roadway and within six inches of the curb or edge thereof, and it shall be
unlawful for such vehicle to be parked with any wheel thereof on the grass or
unpaved surface intermediately adjacent to the paved portion of such roadway.
(1996 Code, § 5-6.07) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to do any act forbidden, or fail
to perform any act required by this chapter. Whoever violates any provision of
this chapter where no other penalty is specifically provided shall be fined not
less than $25, nor more than $100, plus court costs as may be imposed.
(1996 Code, § 5-99.01)
   (B)   Any fine not paid within 30 days, will be subject to an additional $25
late fee added to the original fine.
CHAPTER 72: PARKING SCHEDULES
Schedule
      
I.   Parking at specific locations prohibited
SCHEDULE I. PARKING AT SPECIFIC LOCATIONS PROHIBITED.
   No person shall at any time park any vehicle or permit any vehicle to stand
longer than is necessary to receive or discharge passengers at the following
locations.
 
On either side of Audubon Parkway for a distance of 350 feet east of the
curbline of Preston Highway
On either side of Oriole Drive and Chickadee Road for a distance of 475 feet
south of the south edge of the paved portion of Hess Lane
On the east side of Robin Road for a distance of 300 feet south of Cardinal
Drive
On the south side of Cardinal Drive from Robin Road to Cross Bill Road
On the west side of Robin Road for a distance of 150 feet south of the south
edge of Audubon Parkway
 
(1996 Code, § 5-6.05) Penalty, see §
71.99
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   PUBLIC WAYS, AREAS, SERVICES AND
         ACTIVITIES CODE
      
91.   ANIMALS
      
92.   NUISANCES
      
93.   FOREST CODE
CHAPTER 90: PUBLIC WAYS, AREAS, SERVICES AND ACTIVITIES CODE
Section
General Provisions
   
90.001   Definitions
   
90.002   Utility equipment; permit
   
90.003   Easements
Streets, Sidewalks, and Public Ways
   
90.015   Structural obstructions
   
90.016   Sight obstructions
   
90.017   Blocking roadways and sidewalks
   
90.018   Removal of materials on public ways
   
90.019   Enclosure of public ways
   
90.020   Abutting owners to keep sidewalks in good repair
   
90.021   Excavation permits
   
90.022   Requirements in private excavations
Maintenance of Public Ways and Areas Adjacent Thereto
   
90.035   Abatement of hazards, nuisances, and obstructions
   
90.036   Grass and weeds in public ways
   
90.037   Entrance to streets and roads
   
90.038   Effective date
Public Park Areas
   
90.050   Designation of public park areas
   
90.051   Damage to public park areas
   
90.052   Use of public park areas
Waste Collection and Disposal
   
90.065   Garbage disposal franchise or contract
   
90.066   Financing taxes and service charges
   
90.067   Garbage containers
Parades
   
90.080   Permit
   
90.081   Application for permit
   
90.082   Standards for issuance of permit
   
90.083   Notice of rejection of permit
   
90.084   Appeal procedure when permit denied
   
90.085   Contents of permit
   
90.086   Duties of permittee and public conduct during parades
 
   
90.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 90.001 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   GARBAGE. Food waste, ashes, rubbish, refuse, trash, waste material, cans,
bottles, rags, waste paper, and paper products, crockery, and other ordinary
household or commercial refuse.
   GARDEN AND OTHER TRASH. All leaves, hedge and tree trimmings, limbs, garden
weeds, grass cuttings, garden debris, brush, and all other useless or unwanted
material of whatsoever nature not defined as garbage above, except materials
that accumulate as a result of major building remodeling or alterations or
trees or tree stumps, tree root wads, stone, earth or industrial waste.
   PUBLIC PARK AREA. The areas so designated in §
90.050.
   PUBLIC WAYS. The entire width between the boundary lines of every street or
highway within the city when any part thereof is open to the use of the public
for purposes of vehicular traffic, and shall include the unpaved portions of
such public way between the paved roadway in such public way and the boundary
lines of the private property abutting such public way.
(1996 Code, § 11-1.01)
§ 90.002 UTILITY EQUIPMENT; PERMIT.
   No telegraph, telephone, electric light, and power poles, wires, tubes,
cables, and other wires and lines, and no constricting of sewers, sewer
connections, drains, water lines, gas lines, and other utilities equipment
shall hereafter be placed on, under, or above the surface of any public way or
lot within the corporate boundaries of the city without first obtaining a
permit from the Mayor or his or her designee.
(1996 Code, § 11-8.01) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.003 EASEMENTS.
   (A)   General provisions. It shall be unlawful to offer, solicit, or accept
any easement or other legal encumbrance that would compromise the character of
the city by sanctioning emissions of noise or other pollutants, or the risk of
injury or property damage, or any other nuisance or intrusion defined elsewhere
in this code of ordinances beyond the minimum required for the provision of
essential public utilities to its residences.
   (B)   Permit. No individual, organization, or agency may seek any easement
within the corporate boundaries of the city without first obtaining a permit
from the Mayor or his or her designee. No easement executed in the absence of
such permit shall be considered as having legal effect.
   (C)   Effective date. This section shall become effective from and after its
passage, signing, and publication as required by law.
(Ord. 0006, Series 2013, passed 12-16-2013) Penalty, see §
90.999
STREETS, SIDEWALKS, AND PUBLIC WAYS
§ 90.015 STRUCTURAL OBSTRUCTIONS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to erect, keep, or maintain upon or over
any sidewalk, street, or public way within the city, or upon or over any part
of such sidewalk, street, or public way, any house, fence, wall, building, or
structure of any kind, or any post, rail, trees, plantings, or other things
that may in any way obstruct, either totally or partially, such street or
sidewalk, or that may in any way prevent or impede the full and free use by the
public of such entire sidewalk, street, or public way.
(1996 Code, § 11-3.01) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.016 SIGHT OBSTRUCTIONS.
   (A)   Whenever there exists trees, or overhanging branches or the same,
hedges, shrubs, weeds, or other obstruction of any kind on the sidewalks or
public ways of the city or on private property adjacent thereto, which obstruct
the vision of any operator of vehicles over said public ways, or obstruct any
traffic sign, so as to create a hazard to the safe operation of such vehicles,
the Mayor or his or her designee may order the removal of such obstructions by
giving the owner of such property written notice to remove said obstructions
within 15 days from receipt thereof, and if said notice is not complied with
within said time, then the Mayor or his or her designee may have such
obstruction removed at the expense of such property owner.
   (B)   The notice herein provided shall state the nature of such obstructions
and what part thereof shall be removed, and such notice may be delivered or
mailed to the owner of such property or his or her agent.
   (C)   Upon the failure of any person to comply with any notice specified
herein, the Mayor or his or her designee may send city employees upon said
property to remedy the situation and the city shall have a lien against said
property for the reasonable value of labor and materials used in so doing,
which lien shall be in the form of an affidavit signed and sworn to by the City
Clerk, showing the cost and expense incurred for the work and the date, place,
and property on which said work was done, and the recordation of such affidavit
in the office of the County Clerk shall constitute a lien and privilege on the
property, and shall remain in full force and effect for the amount due in
principal, plus accrued interest at the rate of 6% per annum from the date of
completion of the work, plus costs of court and attorney fees, if any, for
collection, until final payment has been made.
(1996 Code, § 11-3.02) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.017 BLOCKING ROADWAYS AND SIDEWALKS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person in or upon any roadway or sidewalk, or
in or upon any premises in or abutting thereon to demonstrate, sell, or offer
for sale goods, wares, or merchandise, or to display any signs, device,
information, or exhibition, in consequence of which there is caused or created
such a gathering of persons on such sidewalk or roadway as to interfere with
pedestrian or vehicle traffic thereon.
(1996 Code, § 11-3.04) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.018 REMOVAL OF MATERIALS ON PUBLIC WAYS.
   (A)   Any person engaged in doing or causing to be done any construction or
demolition work which makes it necessary for, or results in, bricks, stone,
dirt, sand, gravel, vessels, or other litter or matter to be placed or to fall
in or on any street, sidewalk, or public way of the city, shall remove the
same, together with all litter or other substance or refuse matter remaining
work is completed but no later than one day after completion of the work.
   (B)   The owner of any building or structure of any kind destroyed in whole
or in part by fire, windstorm, or other involuntary cause shall, within two
days after the event causing such destruction, remove or cause to be removed
all debris resulting therefrom lying on or upon any street, sidewalk, or public
way of the city.
(1996 Code, § 11-3.05)
§ 90.019 ENCLOSURE OF PUBLIC WAYS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to enclose in any manner, either totally
or partially, any sidewalk, street, public way, or any part of any sidewalk,
street, or public way, with any fence, wall, or other structure, or in any
manner whatever, except with the written permission of the Mayor or his or her
designee.
(1996 Code, § 11-3.06) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.020 ABUTTING OWNERS TO KEEP SIDEWALKS IN GOOD REPAIR.
   (A)   All real property owners, or agents of owners with business or
commercial property, within the corporate limits of the city, are required to
keep public sidewalks immediately abutting and/or fronting their property in
good order and repair. Each such owner or agent shall be liable to the city for
all losses to or recovery from the city, and shall hold the city harmless from
the losses or recoveries from the city, for damages to persons or property of
others caused by his or her failure or that of his or her agents to repair and
keep such sidewalks in good order and in reasonably safe condition.
   (B)   Notwithstanding division (D)(6) below, the city may, at its
discretion, through the Mayor, notify such owner or agent that repairs are
necessary to put such sidewalk in good order. This notice shall not relieve the
owner, or agent of the owner, from the obligation herein required to keep the
sidewalks in good order and repair, without notice, or to be liable to the city
for all losses to the city or recovery from the city, or to hold the city
harmless from such losses or recoveries from the city. Such owner or agent
shall, within 14 days after such notification from the Mayor, apply for a
permit to make the necessary repairs. If the owner fails to make the required
repairs within a reasonable time as determined by the Mayor, not to exceed 90
days, the city may repair same and the owner shall be liable to the city for
the cost of the repairs.
   (C)   A permit shall be required to make repairs required by this section.
However, there will be no charge for such a permit.
   (D)   City sidewalk safety program. The Mayor shall establish a written city
sidewalk safety program to be approved by the Council by municipal order. The
sidewalk safety program shall provide the following provisions:
      (1)   It shall establish a city Sidewalk Safety Committee to assist the
Mayor in implementing the sidewalk safety program.
      (2)   The Mayor shall appoint the members to the city Sidewalk Safety
Committee.
      (3)   The city Sidewalk Safety Committee shall meet periodically, but at
least annually, to review the schedule of sidewalk repairs. The Committee and
Mayor shall also periodically, but at least once every two years, prepare
implementation and prioritization plans that implement and prioritize sidewalk
repair projects based upon the conditions of the sidewalks and the city’s
budgetary constraints.
      (4)   Upon completion of the implementation and prioritization plans,
said plans shall be submitted to the Council, which shall make budgetary
decisions to appropriate the funds available for repairs and/or replacement
sidewalks.
      (5)   The city may make repairs based on available funds.
      (6)   Prior to making any repairs, whether recommended by the city
Sidewalk Safety Committee or otherwise, the Mayor shall send the abutting
property owner a letter advising of the required repairs, the schedule for
repairs, and estimated cost. If the abutting property owner wishes to add to or
change the scope of repairs he or she should notify the Mayor prior to the
scheduled repair date.
      (7)   The Mayor shall submit to the owner the full amount of the cost of
repair, or a lesser amount to be determined by the city.
      (8)   Should the abutting property owner fail to pay the bill submitted
for these repairs, or the lesser amount determined by the Mayor, by the
scheduled date, the city may take a lien on the property of the abutting
property owner to collect the amount owed to the city.
(Ord. 1, Series 2021, passed 3-29-2021)
§ 90.021 EXCAVATION PERMITS.
   (A)   No person other than a public utility or agent and an authorized
officer or employee of the city shall make any opening, cut, or excavation in
or under the surface of any street, sidewalk, or other public way of the city
without a written permit issued by the Mayor or his or her designee.
   (B)   (1)   In the event that any sewer, main, conduit, or other structure
in or under any street, sidewalk, or other public way of the city shall burst,
break, or otherwise be in such a condition as to seriously endanger person or
property, the owner of such sewer, main, conduit, or other structure shall
immediately take charge of and repair the same and shall immediately take all
necessary precautions to make the location safe and secure.
      (2)   Such owner shall not, however, begin making any permanent repairs
in the street, sidewalk, or other public way or proceed with any further
opening or removal of any further portion of such surface until the owner shall
have secured a written permit from the legislative body to do so.
      (3)   Such permit shall be secured within 18 hours after such break or
serious trouble shall have developed and the necessary repairs to the street,
sidewalk, or other public way shall have been completed, such owner shall file
a written report of the same with the city.
(1996 Code, § 11-4.01)
§ 90.022 REQUIREMENTS IN PRIVATE EXCAVATIONS.
   (A)   (1)   When any person desires to make an opening or excavation in or
under the surface of any street, sidewalk, or other public way of the city,
such person shall make written application to the city for a permit to do such
work.
      (2)   The application for a permit shall state the nature and purpose of
such cut or excavation and shall be accompanied by a set of plans and
specifications indicating the site, methods of construction to be used, and
proposed methods of returning the street or road to its original condition
after completing of the cut or excavation.
   (B)   (1)   After the issuance of such permit, the work allowed thereby
shall be done within the time fixed by the permit and the surface of the
street, sidewalk, or other public way shall be restored to as good condition as
it was before such opening or excavation was made.
      (2)   Any deficiency in materials shall be made good with new materials
by the person making the cut or excavation. After completion of the work
allowed by such permit, the person to whom the permit was issued shall, within
five days, report in writing to the city the fact that such work has been
completed.
   (C)   (1)   The person who made the cut or excavation shall maintain the
condition of the surface over such opening or excavation for five years in as
good condition as the remainder of such street, sidewalk, or other public way
and shall repair or reconstruct the same as often as may be necessary.
      (2)   Should such person fail to maintain, repair, or reconstruct any
such surface within ten days after notice from the city, the city may have such
surface repaired or reconstructed and charge the cost of same to the person
responsible therefor.
      (3)   Such person shall indemnify and save harmless the city against any
claim for damages by reason of any defective condition of any such alley,
street, sidewalk, highway surface, or other public way to such construction or
by reason of any work so done of whatever nature.
   (D)   To protect the city against any loss or damage on account of any
opening or excavation in or under the surface of any street, sidewalk, or other
public way, every person, before doing any work on said street, sidewalk, or
other public way, shall file with the city an acceptable bond of such amount
and upon such terms as directed by the legislative body.
   (E)   Any permit issued as herein prescribed shall in no way be construed as
affecting or recognizing the validity of any existing grants, franchises, or
permits or of any such rights alleged to exist, unless especially stated
herein.
   (F)   Police may issue emergency permits.
(1996 Code, § 11-4.02) Penalty, see §
90.999
MAINTENANCE OF PUBLIC WAYS AND AREAS ADJACENT THERETO
§ 90.035 ABATEMENT OF HAZARDS, NUISANCES, AND OBSTRUCTIONS.
   Whenever there exists overhanging branches of trees, hedges, shrubs, or
weeds on the public ways of the city or on private property adjacent thereto,
which in the opinion of the Code Enforcement Officer, the Mayor or his or her
designee creates a hazard, unsightly conditions, or a nuisance, the Code
Enforcement Officer, the Mayor or his or her designee may order the removal of
the same by giving the owner of property abutting said public way written
notice to remove said branches, hedges, shrubs, or weeds within 15 days from
receipt thereof, and if said notice is not complied with within said time, then
the legislative body may have the same removed at the expense of such property
owner.
(1996 Code, § 11-5.01) (Ord. 008, Series 2002, passed 11-18-2002)
§ 90.036 GRASS AND WEEDS IN PUBLIC WAYS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the owner or agent of private property
abutting any public way to permit noxious weeds, leaves, or vegetable matter to
grow or remain in the area between his or her property line and the paved
portion of the street or highway or such public way and it shall be the duty of
the abutting property owner to maintain the grass in the unpaved portion of the
public way adjacent to his or her property and to keep drainage facilities
adjacent to his or her property free from obstruction.
   (B)   The Mayor, the Code Enforcement Officer, or his or her designee shall
give notice of violations of this section to the owner or his or her agent
requiring the nuisance to be abated within 15 days.
   (C)   Upon failure of the owner of the property to comply with any notice
specified herein, the Mayor or his or her designee may send employees upon said
property to remedy the situation and the city shall have a lien against said
property for the reasonable value of labor and materials used in remedying the
situation, which lien shall be in the form of an affidavit signed by the City
Clerk and shall be recorded in the County Clerk’s office and which lien shall
bear interest at the rate of 1% per month thereafter until paid.
(1996 Code, § 11-5.03) (Ord. 008, Series 2002, passed 11-18-2002) Penalty, see
§
90.999
§ 90.037 ENTRANCE TO STREETS AND ROADS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to make or cause to be made over any
public way in the city any opening from any private lot or land into the paved
portion of any street or road or to make any connection therewith within the
city without first obtaining a written permit from the Mayor or his or her
designee.
(1996 Code, § 11-5.04) (Ord. 008, Series 2002, passed 11-18-2002)
§ 90.038 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This subchapter shall be effective from and after its passage, signing, and
publication as required by law.
(Ord. 008, Series 2002, passed 11-18-2002)
PUBLIC PARK AREAS
§ 90.050 DESIGNATION OF PUBLIC PARK AREAS.
   The following areas within the city are set aside and designated as public
park areas and declared to be public ways of the city.
   (A)   Robin Park, located at 3237 Robin Road, Parcel ID# 0695-3001-0000. The
plot is situated at the extreme southern end of Robin Road and running 313.85
feet northward on the east side of Robin Road, thence eastward 181.20 feet to
Wren Road; thence 362.42 feet on a triangular line to the starting point at the
extreme end of Robin Road.
   (B)   Henderson Park, located at 3219 Wren Road, Parcel ID# 0695-3000-000.
The plot starting at a point at Dove Lawn and Linnet Road running eastward on
the north line of Dove Lawn, 432 feet to Wren Road; thence southward 140 feet
to Dove Lawn; thence westward 432 feet to Linnet Road; thence 140 feet to the
starting point of Dove Lawn.
   (C)   Oriole Park, located at 1020 Oriole Court, Parcel ID# 0696-3001-0000.
The plot starting at the northeast corner of Oriole Court and Thrush Road,
running eastward 360 feet to Oriole Drive; thence southward 140 feet to Dove
Lawn; thence westward 360 feet to Thrush Road; thence 140 feet to Oriole Court,
the point of beginning.
   (D)    Cross Bill Park, located at 1124 Audubon Parkway, Parcel ID# 0699-
0001-0000. The triangular plot, beginning at the point of Audubon Parkway and
Cross Bill Road, running along Audubon Parkway 242.6 feet eastwardly, then 170
feet southward to Cross Bill Road; thence 293.9 feet westwardly to the point of
beginning at Cross Bill Road and Audubon Parkway.
   (E)   Curlew Park, located at 1206 Curlew Avenue, Parcel ID# 0704-0064-0000.
The irregular- formed plot beginning at the northwest point of Curlew Road and
Cross Bill Road; thence running 709.8 feet along Curlew Road to a point 150
feet from Eagle Pass Road; thence on a semicircle along Nightingale to a point
of beginning on Cross Bill Road.
(1996 Code, § 11-2.01)
§ 90.051 DAMAGE TO PUBLIC PARK AREAS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to damage the grass in any designated
public park area within the city, or to destroy, break, or injure any of the
trees or shrubbery in such parks or to injure any fountain, statuary, or
terrace in any of such parks or other public property therein, or to throw any
rocks, sticks, leaves, or other trash therein.
(1996 Code, § 11-2.02) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.052 USE OF PUBLIC PARK AREAS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to make political or other speeches, or
preach or promote or engage in any activity in any designated public park area
within the city in such a manner as to or for the purpose to assemble persons
or crowds upon such park except with the permission of the Mayor or his or her
designee, and upon such conditions and at such times as may be designated by
him or her.
(1996 Code, § 11-2.03) Penalty, see §
90.999
WASTE COLLECTION AND DISPOSAL
§ 90.065 GARBAGE DISPOSAL FRANCHISE OR CONTRACT.
   (A)   (1)   The legislative body shall, by franchise or contract, which may
be exclusive or nonexclusive, provide for the collection and disposal of
garbage, garden, and other trash and other waste within the city.
      (2)   Such franchise or contract shall be awarded following advertisement
for bids therefor to the lowest and best bidder and for such term and upon such
conditions and agreements as the legislative body may from time to time
determine.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to collect for hire and dispose of
garbage, garden, and other trash and other waste within the city or to
transport the same on or over the streets or other public ways of the city,
without first having been awarded a franchise or contract therefor as provided
in division (A) above.
(1996 Code, § 11-7.01) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.066 FINANCING TAXES AND SERVICE CHARGES.
   All costs incurred to provide waste collection and disposal by the city
shall be paid out of the city’s annual tax revenues or by service charges to be
collected from all persons owning real property located within the corporate
boundaries of the city. Such charges shall be fixed by ordinances from time to
time, and enacted in such amounts as can be reasonably expected to yield
revenues substantially equal to the cost of operation of the system.
(1996 Code, § 11-7.02)
§ 90.067 GARBAGE CONTAINERS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to store any garbage can or refuse
container of any type at any location on premises within the city so as to be
visible from the streets adjoining such premises, except public parks, entrance
ways into the city, and buildings located on corner lots.
(1996 Code, § 11-7.03) Penalty, see §
90.999
PARADES
§ 90.080 PERMIT.
   (A)   No person shall engage in, participate in, aid, form, or start any
parade, march, ceremony, show, exhibition, pageant, or procession of any kind,
or any similar display, in or upon any street, sidewalk, park, or other public
place in the city, unless a parade permit shall have been obtained from the
Mayor or his or her designee.
   (B)   This section shall not apply to:
      (1)   Funeral processions; or
      (2)   Students going to and from school classes or participating in
educational activities, providing such conduct is under the immediate direction
and supervision of the proper school authorities.
(1996 Code, § 11-9.01) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.081 APPLICATION FOR PERMIT.
   (A)   A person seeking issuance of a parade permit shall file an application
with the Mayor or his or her designee not less than five days, nor more than 60
days before the date on which it is proposed to conduct the parade.
   (B)   The application for a parade permit shall set forth the following
information:
      (1)   The name, address, and telephone number of the person seeking to
conduct such parade;
      (2)   If the parade is proposed to be conducted for, on behalf of, or by
an organization, the name, address, and telephone number of the headquarters of
the organization and of the authorized and responsible heads of such
organization;
      (3)   The name, address, and telephone number of the person who will be
the parade Chairperson and who will be responsible for its conduct;
      (4)   The date and hours when the parade is to be conducted;
      (5)   The route to be traveled, the starting point, and the termination
point; and
      (6)   The approximate number of persons who, animals if any, and vehicles
which will constitute such parade, the type of animals, if any, and the
description of the vehicles.
(1996 Code, § 11-9.02)
§ 90.082 STANDARDS FOR ISSUANCE OF PERMIT.
   The Mayor or his or her designee shall issue a permit as provided for
hereunder when, from a consideration of the application and from such other
information as may otherwise be obtained, he or she finds that:
   (A)   The conduct of the parade will not substantially interrupt the safe
and orderly movement of other traffic contiguous to its route;
   (B)   The conduct of the parade will not require the diversion of so great a
number of police officers
of the city to properly police the line of movement and the areas contiguous
thereto as to prevent normal police protection of the city;
   (C)   The concentration of persons, animals, and vehicles at assembly points
of the parade will not unduly interfere with proper fire and police protection
of, or ambulance service to, areas contiguous to such assembly areas;
   (D)   The parade is to be scheduled to move from its point of origin to its
point of termination expeditiously and without unreasonable delays en route;
and
   (E)   The parade is not to be held for the sole purpose of advertising any
product, goods, or event, and is not designated to be held purely for private
profit.
(1996 Code, § 11-9.03)
§ 90.083 NOTICE OF REJECTION OF PERMIT.
   The Mayor or his or her designee shall act upon the application for a parade
permit within three days, Saturdays, Sundays, and holidays excepted, after the
filing thereof. If the Mayor or his or her designee disapproves the
application, he or she shall mail to the applicant within three days,
Saturdays, Sundays, and holidays excepted, after the date upon which the
application was filed, a notice of his or her action, stating the reasons for
his or her denial of the permit.
(1996 Code, § 11-9.04)
§ 90.084 APPEAL PROCEDURE WHEN PERMIT DENIED.
   Any person aggrieved shall have the right to appeal the denial of a parade
permit to the legislative body. The appeal must be made within ten days after
notice of denial. The legislative body shall act upon the appeal not later than
the date of such body’s next regularly scheduled meeting.
(1996 Code, § 11-9.05)
§ 90.085 CONTENTS OF PERMIT.
   Each parade permit shall state the following information:
   (A)   Starting and ending time;
   (B)   The portions of the street, sidewalk, park, or other public place to
be traveled that may be occupied by the parade; and
   (C)   Such other information as the Mayor or his or designee shall find
necessary to the enforcement of this subchapter.
(1996 Code, § 11-9.06)
§ 90.086 DUTIES OF PERMITTEE AND PUBLIC CONDUCT DURING PARADES.
   (A)   A permittee hereunder shall comply with all permit directions and
conditions and with all applicable laws and ordinances.
   (B)   No person shall unreasonably hamper, obstruct, impede, or interfere
with any parade or parade assembly or with any person, vehicle, or animal
participating or used in a parade.
   (C)   No driver of a vehicle except a police car or other emergency vehicle
shall drive between the vehicles or persons comprising a parade when such
vehicles or persons are in motion and are conspicuously designated as a parade.
   (D)   The Chief of Police shall have the authority, when reasonably
necessary, to prohibit or restrict the parking of vehicles along a street or
other public thoroughfare or part thereof constituting apart of the route of a
parade.
(1996 Code, § 11-9.07) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.999 PENALTY.
   Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter constitutes a
civil offense, subject to a maximum civil fine of $150 if uncontested, and a
maximum civil fine of $300 if contested. Each day a violation occurs shall
constitute a separate offense. All past due civil fines are also subject to
monthly interest of 1.5%, court costs, and costs associated with collection.
CHAPTER 91: ANIMALS
Section
   
91.01   General
§ 91.01 GENERAL.
   The Louisville-Jefferson County Animals Code as contained in Chapter 91 of
the Louisville- Jefferson County Code of Ordinances, is adopted by reference as
if fully set forth in this code of ordinances.
CHAPTER 92: NUISANCES
Section
   
92.01   Nuisances declared unlawful
   
92.02   Common law and statutory nuisances
   
92.03   Test for nuisance
   
92.04   Nuisance created by others
   
92.05   Abatement procedure
 
   
92.99   Penalty
§ 92.01 NUISANCES DECLARED UNLAWFUL.
   The following conditions are hereby declared to be public nuisances and are
unlawful and prohibited.
   (A)   Dwellings unfit for human habitation. Erection, use, or maintenance of
a dwelling within the city which is unfit for human habitation A dwelling is
UNFIT FOR HUMAN HABITATION when it is dangerous or detrimental to life or
health because of want of repair; defects in the drainage, plumbing, lighting;
ventilation or construction; infection with contagious disease; or the
existence on the premises of an unsanitary condition likely to cause sickness
among occupants of the dwelling;
   (B)   Dangerous buildings adjoining streets. Causing or allowing any
building, house, or structure to become so out of repair and dilapidated that,
if the condition is permitted to be and remain, it shall endanger the life,
limb, or property of, or cause hurt, damage, or injury to persons or property
using or being upon the streets or public ways of the city adjoining such
premises, by reason of the collapse of such building, house, or structure or by
the falling of parts thereof or of objects therefrom;
   (C)   Dangerous trees, stacks, and the like; adjoining street. Causing or
allowing any tree, stack, or other object to remain standing upon any premises
within the city in such condition that it shall, if the condition is allowed to
continue, endanger the life, limb, or property or cause hurt, damage, or injury
to persons or property upon the streets or public ways of the city adjacent
thereto, by the falling thereof or of parts thereof;
   (D)   Dilapidated buildings. Causing or allowing any building, house, or
structure to become so out of repair and dilapidated that it constitutes a fire
hazard liable to catch on fire or communicate fire because of its condition and
lack of repair, or that due to lack of adequate maintenance or neglect it
endangers the public health, welfare, or safety, or materially interferes with
the peaceful enjoyment by owners or occupants of adjacent property, or causes
or tends to cause diminution in value of other property in the neighborhood in
which such building, house, or structure is located;
   (E)   Accumulation of rubbish. Causing or allowing such an accumulation on
any premises of dirt, film, plant matter, refuse, trash, garbage, or other
waste material that it makes such premises unsightly or unhealthy or causes a
stench or odor noxious and offensive to those in the neighborhood or endangers
the public health, welfare, or safety, or materially interferes with the
peaceful enjoyment by owners or occupants of adjacent property because of the
danger of its catching or communicating fire; its attracting and propagating
vermin, rodents, or insects; or its blowing into any street, sidewalk, or
property of another;
   (F)   Noxious odors or smoke. Emitting from premises within the city into
the surrounding atmosphere such odors, dusts, smoke, or other matter as to
render ordinary use or physical occupation of other property in the vicinity
uncomfortable or impossible;
   (G)   Open wells. Causing or allowing the maintenance of any open,
uncovered, or insecurely- covered, cistern, cellar, well, pit, excavation,
vault, or septic tank situated upon private premises in any open or unfenced
lot of place;
   (H)   Scrap metal. Storage of scrap metal including pieces of, or parts of
steel, iron, tin, zinc, copper, aluminum, or any alloy thereof whether covered
with porcelain or any other material, whether intact or in parts, which has
served its usefulness in its original form, and can no longer be used or useful
for its originally intended purpose within the city;
   (I)   Animal pens. Erection, use, or maintenance of any building, structure,
or place for the keeping, feeding, sheltering, or confining of any fowl or
animal, which occasions noxious odors, offensive smells, or raucous noises
injurious to the health, comfort, or property of individuals or of the public;
   (J)   Loud noise. Operating or permitting the operation of any music,
phonographs, radios, television, mowers, blowers, trimmers, power tool
equipment, and all other noise-producing devices, whether human or mechanical,
which by reason of the volume and continuance thereof, shall disturb the
comfort or repose of any person in the vicinity;
   (K)   Noisy animals. Maintaining, keeping, allowing, or permitting to be
maintained, kept, or allowed, any animal or bird, which by causing frequent or
long continued noise, shall disturb the comfort or repose of any person in the
vicinity;
   (L)   Dangerous animals. Maintaining, keeping, allowing, or permitting to be
maintained or kept any animal or bird which on more than one occasion has
inflicted physical injury to persons with whom it has come into contact under
conditions which would not have put a reasonable human in fear of physical
danger or damage to or the theft of his or her property in an area accessible
to children;
   (M)   Junked autos or parts. Maintaining, keeping, allowing, or permitting
to be maintained, kept, or allowed, any junked, abandoned, or inoperative motor
vehicles, or parts thereof upon any private or public property within the city;
   (N)   Weeds. Maintaining, keeping, allowing, or permitting any thistles,
burdock, jimson weed, ragweeds, milkweeds, poison ivy, poison oak, iron weeds,
or grass in excess of six inches, and all other noxious weeds and rank
vegetation of whatever kind or nature, to grow, accumulate, or stand in an
improved or unimproved real estate, occupied lots, or vacant lots within the
city, or to otherwise cause such premises to be unsightly or unhealthy;
   (O)   Abandoned refrigerators. Keeping, placing, or storing or permitting to
be kept, placed, or stored, outside of any building or dwelling on any property
owned or occupied by any person within the city, or keeping, placing, or
storing in any other place accessible to children any abandoned, unattended, or
discarded icebox, ice chest, or refrigerator which cannot be opened at all
times from the inside;
   (P)   Mosquito breeding. Accumulating of water in which mosquito larvae may
breed or which may otherwise be dangerous to health;
   (Q)   Garbage covers. The deposit of garbage in any fly-proof, water-tight
receptacles; the deposit of garbage and trash on road easement prior to the day
before waste collection; or
   (R)   Burning of leaves. The burning of leaves is prohibited at all times.
(1996 Code, 7-2.01) Penalty, see §
92.99
   (S)   Vegetation. 
      (1)   Whenever there exists overhanging branches of trees, hedges,
shrubs, or weeds on the public ways of the city or on private property adjacent
thereto, which in the opinion of the Mayor or his or her designee creates a
hazard, unsightly conditions, or a nuisance, the Mayor or his or her designee
may order the removal of the same by giving the owner of property abutting said
public way written notice to remove said branches, hedges, shrubs, or weeds or
leaves within ten days from receipt thereof, and if said notice is not complied
with within said time, then the Mayor may have the same removed at the expense
of such property owner.
(1996 Code, § 11-5.01)
      (2)   It shall be unlawful for the owner or agent of private property
abutting any public way to permit noxious weeds, leaves, or vegetable matter to
grow or remain in the area between his or her property line and the paved
portion of the street or highway or such public way and it shall be the duty of
the abutting property owner to maintain the grass in the unpaved portion of the
public way adjacent to his or her property and to keep drainage facilities
adjacent to his or her property free from obstruction.
(1996 Code, § 11-5.03)
   (T)   Pest infestations and extermination. It shall be unlawful for any
dwelling within the city to be infested with rats, mice, roaches, or other
injurious or unwanted organisms, or infected with any contagious disease. Pest
infestations which develop subsequent to the initiation of human occupancy
within a dwelling shall be eradicated and all pests exterminated in accordance
with the applicable regulations prescribed by the Council and the Director of
the County Department of Public Health.
   (U)   (1)   Garbage cans or containers. Garbage, yard waste, and recycling
cans or containers storing these items must be set at the designated pickup
location no earlier than the day before collection day. All containers must be
removed from the curb or street by end-of-day (midnight) collection day.
      (2)   Definitions. For the purposes of this division, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
         RECYCLING. Any process by which materials that would otherwise become
solid waste are collected, separated, or processed and reused or returned to
use in the form of raw materials or products, including refuse-derived fuel
when processed in accordance with administrative regulations established by the
Kentucky Natural Resources and Environmental Protection Cabinet, but does not
include the incineration or combustion of materials for the recovery of energy.
         SOLID WASTE. Any garbage, refuse, sludge, and other discarded
material, including solid, liquid, semi-solid, or contained gaseous material
resulting from industrial, commercial, mining, agricultural operations and from
community activities, but does not include those materials, including sand,
soil, rock or gravel, extracted as part of a public road project.
         YARD WASTE. Leaves, grass and any other herbaceous or woody materials
generated at residential occupancy; those ground, chipped, or shredded
materials of herbaceous or woody nature accumulated in bulk by in-house
commercial or institutional ground maintenance crews or by contractors engaged
in the business of residential or commercial grounds maintenance, tree
trimming, leaf clearing, and the like; and other accumulations of herbaceous
materials, including Christmas trees.
(1996 Code, § 15-5.02) (Ord. 008, Series 2002, passed 11-18-2002; Ord. 6,
Series 2020, passed 9-21-2020) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.02 COMMON LAW AND STATUTORY NUISANCES.
   In addition to what is declared in this chapter to be a public nuisance,
those offenses which are known to the common law and the commonwealth as public
nuisances may, in case any thereof exist within the city, be treated as such
and be proceeded against as is provided in this chapter or in accordance with
any other provisions of law.
(1996 Code, 7-2.02)
§ 92.03 TEST FOR NUISANCE.
   Whether or not a particular annoyance, of the character listed in §
92.01, constitutes a nuisance shall depend on its effect upon persons of
ordinary health and average sensibilities and not its effect upon persons who
are delicate or supersensitive, or whose habits, tastes, or conditions are such
that they never are sensible of any annoyance.
(1996 Code, 7-2.03)
§ 92.04 NUISANCE CREATED BY OTHERS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, it shall not be essential that the nuisance
be created or contributed to by the owners, or tenants, or their agents, or
representatives, but merely that the nuisance be enacted or contributed to by
licensees, invitees, guests, or other persons for whose conduct the owner or
operator is responsible, or by persons for whose conduct the owner or operator
is not responsible, but by the exercise of reasonable care, the owner or
operator ought to have become aware of.
(1996 Code, 7-2.04)
§ 92.05 ABATEMENT PROCEDURE.
   Whenever it is determined by the Mayor, the Code Enforcement Officer, or his
or her designee that a nuisance exists, either upon complaint of any citizen or
upon its own initiative, it may proceed to cause the abatement of such nuisance
in any one or more of the following ways.
   (A)   The Mayor, the Code Enforcement Officer, or his or her designee may
cause the person causing such nuisance or the owner or occupant of the premises
where the nuisance exists to be cited for violation of the pertinent provisions
of this chapter or other ordinance.
   (B)   If the nuisance involves a matter or health and sanitation with
respect to which the county Board of Health has jurisdiction, the nuisance may
be referred to the local health officer for proceedings as provided by statute
or pertinent health regulations.
   (C)   If the nuisance is one which is prohibited by statute, the person
causing such nuisance or the owner or occupant of the premises where such
nuisance exists may proceed against as provided by such statute.
   (D)   (1)   The Mayor, the Code Enforcement Officer, or his or her designee
may order the person causing the nuisance or permitting the same to continue,
or may order the owner or occupant of the premises where such nuisance exists
to abate such nuisance within a reasonable time. In determining such reasonable
time, the Mayor or his or her designee shall take into consideration the degree
of threat to the public health, safety, and welfare and the means required to
abate such nuisance.
      (2)   The notice of abatement shall be served in writing personally or at
the usual place of residence of the person cited or by certified mail. If the
nuisance is not abated within the time specified in the notice, the person
specified in the notice shall be given another notice in the manner provided
above to appear before the Code Enforcement Board to show cause why such
nuisance should not be abated.
      (3)   The hearing before the Code Enforcement Board shall be opened to
the public, and the person served with notice may be represented by counsel. If
the legislative body determines that a nuisance exists, it may order it to be
abated either immediately or within such time as it may determine, and to that
end, it may cause it to be abated by the city with the expense thereof being
charged against the owner. The Code Enforcement Board may also order the Code
Enforcement Officer or City Police to cite such person for violation of the
pertinent provision of the code or ordinance involved.
   (E)   The legislative body may order the City Attorney bring a suit to
enjoin continuance of the nuisance.
(1996 Code, 7-2.05)
§ 92.99 PENALTY.
   It shall be unlawful to cause or permit the continuance of any public
nuisance included within the provisions of this chapter, and whoever causes or
permits the continuance thereof shall, upon conviction, shall be subject to a
maximum civil fine of $150 if uncontested, and a maximum civil fine of $300 if
contested. Each day a violation occurs shall constitute a separate offense. All
past due civil fines are also subject to monthly interest of 1.5%, court costs,
and costs associated with collection..
(1996 Code, § 7-99.01)
CHAPTER 93: FOREST CODE
Section
   
93.01   Appointment of City Forester
   
93.02   Title
   
93.03   Authority
   
93.04   Definitions
   
93.05   Intent
   
93.06   Forest Board
   
93.07   City Forester
   
93.08   Maintenance of and standards for public trees
   
93.09   Permits and exceptions to permit requirements
   
93.10   Public Utility Permit Agreements
   
93.11   Prohibited actions to public trees
 
   
93.99   Penalty
§ 93.01 APPOINTMENT OF CITY FORESTER.
    The offices of Clerk and Treasurer may be consolidated and the offices of
Assessor and City Engineer are to be filled at the discretion of the Mayor.
Pursuant to §
31.02 of this code, upon recommendation of the Forest Board, the Mayor shall
appoint an individual as City Forester with the advice and consent of the
legislative body.
(Ord. 8, Series 2019, passed 9-16-2019)
§ 93.02 TITLE.
   This chapter may be known and may be cited as the “City of Audubon Park
Forest Code.”
(Ord. 8, Series 2019, passed 9-16-2019)
§ 93.03 AUTHORITY.
   This chapter is enacted pursuant to the city’s general police power; and all
other state and local laws applicable to this chapter.
(Ord. 8, Series 2019, passed 9-16-2019)
§ 93.04 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning. Terms not
otherwise defined herein shall be interpreted first by reference to the
Louisville Metro Land Development Code and the code of ordinances for the City
of Audubon Park, Kentucky (“city”) if specifically defined therein; then
according to common usage, unless the context clearly indicates otherwise.
   APPROPRIATE INSURANCE. Current and continued insurance coverage issued by an
insurance company licensed to write and issue policies of insurance within the
Commonwealth of Kentucky, with the applicant applying for a permit under §
93.09 of this chapter having insurance coverage in the minimum amounts of
$300,000 for bodily injury and $1,000,000 for property damage, per occurrence,
and indemnifying the city and any person who may be injured or suffer damages
resulting from the conduct, activities, and the pursuits of the applicant, and
worker’s compensation insurance for all agents or employees of the service
provider in the amounts required by law. The certificate of insurance presented
to the city must list the certificate holder as “City of Audubon Park, 3340
Robin Road, Audubon Park.” APPROPRIATE INSURANCE requirements shall not apply
to employees, assigns, and agents of the city nor to any public service company
doing such work in the pursuit of their public service endeavors or city
employment.
   CALIPER. The diameter in inches of a tree trunk taken 6 inches above the
ground for up to and including 4-inch caliper size, and 12 inches above the
ground for larger sizes.
   CERTIFIED ARBORIST. An arborist certified by the International Society of
Arboriculture.
   CITY FORESTER. The city official appointed by the Mayor and confirmed by the
legislative body pursuant to §
93.07 of this chapter.
   COMPACTION. The process of compressing soil structure by foot or vehicle or
by construction such that existing roots of a tree are damaged and roots can no
longer penetrate soil to support growth and maintain health.
   CRITICAL ROOT ZONE. The minimum area surrounding a tree considered essential
to support its viability. The dimensional measurement of the critical root zone
is equal to a radius of one foot per one inch of trunk DBH (defined below).
Thus, in the instance of a 20-inch DBH tree, the tree’s critical root zone
would consist of a 20-foot radius projecting in all directions from the tree as
measured from the center of its trunk; or in terms of full diameter, a critical
root zone of a 40-foot diameter spread across the full root system of the tree.
   DBH (DIAMETER AT BREAST HEIGHT). The main stem of a tree trunk measured in
inches at a height of 4½ feet above the natural grade of the ground at its
base. Whenever a branch, limb, defect or abnormal swelling of the trunk occurs
at this height, the DBH shall be measured at the nearest point below 4½ feet at
which a normal diameter occurs. If a tree splits into multiple trunks below 4½
feet, then the trunk is measured at its most narrow point beneath the split. In
determining the DBH for purposes of calculating the value of a tree which has
been illegally cut or removed, DBH shall be the top diameter of the stump less
than 4½ feet above the ground.
   DEAD (TREE OR LIMB). A tree or tree limb that is dead or has been damaged
beyond repair or where insufficient live tissue, green leaves, limbs, or
branches exist to sustain life.
   DESTROYED TREE.  A tree which through an intentional or negligent act or
lack of protection is more likely than not to die within a period of five
years, as determined by a certified arborist employed or retained by the Forest
Board.
   DYING TREE.  A tree in an advanced state of decline because it is injured,
diseased, or infested by insects and cannot be saved by reasonable treatment or
pruning, or must be removed to prevent spread of infestation or disease to
other trees, or is likely to become a danger.
   FOREST BOARD. These individuals appointed by the Mayor and confirmed by the
legislative body pursuant to §
93.06(A) of this chapter.
   IMMINENT THREAT. Sudden and unexpected instability or collapse of a tree or
major limb that may cause harm to persons or property, or block vehicular
traffic, which requires professional equipment to move, and is approved by the
City Police as an “imminent threat.”
   PROPER ARBORICULTURAL PRACTICES.  A reference to the methods employed during
tree planting or cutting or removing any part of the branching structure of a
plant in the crown, trunk, or root areas in accordance with the most recent
edition of the American National Standards Institute (ANSI) “A-300 Standards”
and published “Best Management Practices” of the International Society of
Arboriculture.
   PROPERTY OWNER. Any person who is the owner of record of real property
located within the city, as well as any person who is an owner within the
meaning of §
10.02 of this code.
   PRUNING. The removal or reduction of parts of a tree which are not requisite
for growth or production, or are injurious to the health or development of a
tree.
   PUBLIC TREE. A tree with a base wholly, or in part, situated on city owned
or controlled land or in public rights-of-way controlled by the city, excluding
parks and parkways that are under the jurisdiction of Louisville Metro Parks or
other governmental jurisdictions.
   PUBLIC TREE NUISANCE. Causing or suffering any tree, stack, or other object
to remain standing upon any premises within the city in such condition that it
shall, if the condition is suffered to continue, endanger the life, limb, or
property or cause hurt, damage, or injury to persons or property upon the
streets or public ways of the city adjacent thereto, by the falling thereof or
of parts thereof.
   PUBLIC UTILITY. An organization that provides a utility service for the use
and benefit of the public, including but not limited to electricity, natural
gas, water, sewage, storm water, cable, telephone and telecommunications
service, and maintains infrastructure for the provision of such service. A
public utility may be publicly, privately, or cooperatively owned, and may or
may not be regulated by the Kentucky Public Service Commission.
   TOPPING. The severe cutting back of limbs to stubs within a tree’s crown and
thus reducing the size of the tree using heading cuts that shorten limbs or
branches back to a predetermined crown limit; also referenced as “heading”,
“tipping”, “hat racking”, or “rounding over”.
   TREE MAINTENANCE. Any and all work performed on a tree and any associated
costs including, but not limited to watering; structure and safety related
pruning; removing dead or diseased limbs; treating insect infestations, fungi,
diseases and pest control; and removal when a majority of a tree is dead or is
a threat to public health and safety.
   TRENCH OR TRENCHING. A cut in the ground exceeding 12 feet in length and a
depth sufficient to damage tree roots in the area of the trench.
(Ord. 8, Series 2019, passed 9-16-2019)
§ 93.05 INTENT.
   Trees are declared to be beneficial public resources. To that end, this
chapter provides for the promotion, management, and redevelopment of the city’s
urban forest. The first responsibility for maintaining and renewing the forest,
however, lies with the individual citizen. It shall be unlawful to remove, top,
transplant, damage, poison, or in any other manner destroy or cause to be
destroyed any tree in the public ways of the city, or to fail to comply with
any other provision set forth herein.
(Ord. 8, Series 2019, passed 9-16-2019) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.06 FOREST BOARD.
   (A)   Appointment and constitution.
      (1)   There is hereby established a City Forest Board whose members, each
of whom must be
a resident or property owner, shall be appointed by the Mayor, and confirmed by
the legislative body.
      (2)   The Forest Board shall have no fewer than six members and no more
than 12 members. The Mayor shall be an ex-officio member of the Forest Board,
but shall vote only in the event of a tie. A majority of the members of the
Forest Board shall constitute a quorum.
      (3)   A Forest Board Chairperson (“Forest Board Chairperson”) shall be
elected by the Forest
Board. The Forest Board Chairperson may delegate any duty of the Forest Board
to any member or members of the Forest Board. The Forest Board Chairperson
shall be elected biennially.
      (4)   The Forest Board shall elect such officers as it deems appropriate
for its efficient operation,
including, at minimum, the Forest Board Chairperson and a Recording Secretary.
      (5)   The Forest Board is subject to the Kentucky Open Meetings and Open
Records laws.
      (6)   Members of the Forest Board shall serve without compensation.
   (B)   Terms. Each member of the Forest Board shall be appointed for a term
of four calendar years, or until a successor is appointed and qualified;
provided, however, that initial terms shall be staggered so that one-third of
the members are appointed for two-year terms, one-third of the members are
appointed for three-year terms, and one-third of the members are appointed for
four-year terms. In filling vacancies prior to the expiration of the stated
term of Forest Board membership, the appointment of a successor shall be for
only the unexpired portion of the remaining term.
   (C)    Forest Board meetings. The Forest Board shall meet on the second
Wednesday of each month at 6:30 p.m. at City Hall, unless changed by the Forest
Board with 24 hours public notice, or such other location as shall have been
duly designated according to the Kentucky Revised Statutes. Minutes of every
meeting of the Forest Board shall be kept and promptly filed with the City
Clerk.
   (D)    Forest Board duties.
      (1)   The Forest Board shall propose criteria for the approval, or denial
of, permits requested
pursuant to §
93.09(A) of this chapter and the Forest Board shall propose procedures for
submitting applications for such permits that are consistent with §
93.09(B) of this chapter. Such criteria and procedures shall include provisions
to preserve and renew the city’s forest resources, and shall become effective
upon approval by the legislative body. Copies of such criteria and procedures
shall be made available by the City Clerk without charge.
      (2)   The Forest Board is established for the following purposes:
         (a)   Acting on permit applications submitted pursuant to §
93.09 of this chapter and on potential nuisance conditions or actual public
tree nuisances, in consultation with the City Forester as needed;
         (b)   Preparing and maintaining a forest management plan for the city,
and submitting to the Mayor annual budget requests to support its
implementation;
         (c)   Maintaining awareness of tree health and population diversity;
         (d)   Providing for the education of residents on planting, care, and
preservation of trees;
         (e)   Organizing, promoting, and overseeing community volunteer
activities to further the health and maintenance of the urban forest;
         (f)   Preparing applications for grants and honorifics associated with
urban forestry;
         (g)   Advising the Mayor and legislative body on matters pertaining to
the urban forest;
         (h)   Provide assistance and guidance on matters pertaining to
purchasing, planting, pruning, and tree maintenance; and
         (i)   Such other duties as may, from time to time, be assigned to it
by the Mayor.
(Ord. 8, Series 2019, passed 9-16-2019)
§ 93.07 CITY FORESTER.
   (A)   Appointment. Upon recommendation of the Forest Board, the Mayor shall
appoint an individual as City Forester, with the advice and consent of the
legislative body.
   (B)   City Forester responsibilities. The City Forester shall provide
professional counsel to the Forest Board in fulfillment of its forest
management and development responsibilities. In particular, the City Forester
shall:
      (1)   Consult with the Forest Board:
         (a)   Upon the request of the Forest Board chair or designee;
         (b)   Upon the request of a majority of the members of the Forest
Board; or
         (c)   When the Forest Board is asked to act on an application pursuant
to §
93.06(D)(2)(a) of this chapter;
      (2)   Endeavor to ensure that any work for which a permit is required
under this chapter is completed in a professional manner using proper
arboricultural practices, and to ensure that the residents, property, and
vegetation in the work area will be protected;
      (3)   Identify and report to the Forest Board any public tree nuisance,
and work with the Mayor
and Code Enforcement Officer to initiate a written notice of required abatement
to the property owner or resident of the property where such public tree
nuisance is situated;
      (4)   In the performance of the duties assigned to him or her in this
section, have the authority
to enter upon any lot within the city after providing reasonable notice to the
resident and/or property owner of his or her intention to do so, the reason for
such entry, and the time when such entry shall occur;
      (5)   Provide input and recommendations for the city’s forest management
plan and implementing budget requests prescribed by §
93.06(D)(2)(b) of this chapter, including needs for structural maintenance of
existing trees, and preferred sites and species for reforestation; and
      (6)   Participate in maintaining awareness of tree health and diversity
as prescribed by §
93.06(D)(2)(c) of this chapter.
(Ord. 8, Series 2019, passed 9-16-2019)
§ 93.08 MAINTENANCE OF AND STANDARDS FOR PUBLIC TREES.
   (A)   Maintenance of public trees. Tree maintenance of public trees shall be
the responsibility of the abutting property owner.
   (B)   Standards for public trees.
      (1)   The Forest Board shall establish policies and standards for
planting, tree maintenance, tree treatment, tree encroachment, and for the
removal and replacement of public trees. In no event shall the Forest Board
require planting a tree larger than 1-1/2 -inch in caliper.
      (2)   All public trees that are removed, including public trees removed
by the city, are required to have the stump ground within three months of the
removal at the expense of the property owner unless the Forest Board provides a
written waiver of this requirement. This provision shall not require a public
utility to grind the stump of a tree removed by the public utility, at the
request of the Forest Board, from right-of-way not abutting the public
utility’s property.
      (3)   All public trees that are removed are required to be replaced in
accordance with the Forest Board’s standards, as prescribed in division (B) of
this section, within one year, unless the Forest Board provides a written
waiver of this requirement This requirement shall not apply to exempt
activities under §
93.09(C) of this chapter or to public utilities operating under a public
utility permit agreement with the Forest Board pursuant §
93.10 of this chapter. If the City Forester and the Forest Board chair agree
that a replacement tree cannot be placed in the right-of-way area, then either:
         (a)   The one-year time-frame to replace the public tree may be
extended by the Forest Board chair, or by a majority vote of the Forest Board,
to no more than five years; or
         (b)   Upon the consent of the property owner, a replacement tree may
be placed on the property owner’s private property in a location agreed to by
the Forest Board chair, the City Forester, and the property owner, in
fulfillment of the requirement to replace the public tree.
      (4)   Without limiting rights pursuant to any easement, only trees that
grow to a mature height of at least 40 feet or more will be considered for
planting within the public right-of-way.
      (5)   All driving and parking of vehicles, including construction
equipment, that could cause
compaction is prohibited.
      (6)   No tree or other item is permitted which causes a public tree
nuisance.
      (7)   Trenching, including for sidewalks, within the critical root zone
is prohibited.
      (8)   The Forest Board may, by majority vote, waive any standard or
requirement placed on the
property owner under this section.
(Ord. 8, Series 2019, passed 9-16-2019) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.09 PERMITS AND EXCEPTIONS TO PERMIT REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Regular permits.
      (1)   A permit shall be obtained from the Forest Board, and issued by the
City Clerk, prior to
planting, tree maintenance, tree encroachment, tree removal, or replacement of
a public tree in accordance with this chapter, except as stated in division (C)
of this section. Permits involving public utilities are addressed in §
93.10 of this chapter and are not subject to this section.
      (2)   Instances requiring a permit:
         (a)   Tree removal. Circumstances in which a permit for the removal of
a public tree
shall be issued include, but are not limited to the following:
            1.   The public tree is a threat to public safety;
            2.   The public tree is a threat to the health of other trees in
the community; or
            3.    If a tree planted after the effective date of this chapter is
in violation of the policies and standards of the Forest Board, said public
tree shall be replaced by a tree in compliance with the policies and standards
of the Forest Board.
   Unless waived by the Forest Board, approval of a tree removal permit will be
conditioned upon the replacement of the tree in accordance with the standards
of the Forest Board at a location approved by the Forest Board, which may be in
a different location than the removed tree. If the permit recipient or property
owner fails to replace the tree, the Forest Board may fulfill the replacement
requirements and recover its costs in doing so from the property owner or other
entity that removed the tree.
         (b)   Pruning. A permit for the pruning of a public tree shall be
issued for pruning of limbs pruned in accordance with standards set forth by
the Forest Board when said limb is:
            1.   Interfering with normal flow of pedestrian traffic;
            2.   Obstructing cross-visibility at any street comer or
intersection;
            3.   Obstructing visibility of traffic control devices, signals, or
permanent signs;
            4.   Touching a home or structure; or
            5.   Pruned to remove dead wood in the crown of the tree or pruned
to thin the crown when approved by an arborist in compliance with proper
arboricultural practices.
      (3)   The party seeking the permit shall indemnify and hold harmless the
city, its officers and
employees, from any loss, liability or damage, including expenses and costs,
for bodily or personal injury, and for property damage sustained by any person
as a result of the work to be done pursuant to the permit.
      (4)   Permits under this chapter, other than public utility permits under
§
93.10 of this chapter, are to be issued by the City Clerk without charge.
      (5)   All activity authorized by a permit shall be performed in
compliance with the Forest Board
standards and proper arboricultural practices.
   (B)   The permit process.
      (1)   Permit request. The property owner wishing to seek a permit shall
call the City Hall Clerk
or visit the website for the city in order to obtain and complete a permit
application.
      (2)   Right-of-way determination. Once a permit application filed, the
city’s Code Enforcement
Officer shall determine whether the subject tree is a public tree and thus
subject to the provisions of this chapter.
      (3)   Consultation. If the City Code Enforcement Officer determines that
the tree subject to the permit application is a public tree, the Forest Board
Chairperson or designee shall contact the property owner to arrange a time to
visit and evaluate the tree, further evaluate the permit application, and, if
required by this chapter, determine a site for future re-planting and the type
of tree to be re-planted.
      (4)   Pre-approval conditioned on proof of insurance or denial. The
Forest Board Chairperson or designee, in consultation with the Mayor, shall
decide whether to conditionally pre- approve or deny the permit application
under the provisions of this chapter. Such decision will be provided in writing
by the Forest Board Chairperson or designee to the property owner and the City
Clerk. If the Forest Board Chairperson or designee, in consultation with the
Mayor, denies the permit application, the property owner may appeal under
division (E) of this section.
      (5)   Proof of insurance. If the permit application is conditionally pre-
approved, the property owner may engage an entity with appropriate insurance to
perform the tree service related to the permit. Before the permit may be
approved, the property owner must first obtain written confirmation from the
City Clerk that the entity contracted to perform the tree service related to
the permit has appropriate insurance.
      (6)   Issuance. The City Clerk shall issue the permit in writing. Upon
issuance, the permit must be displayed at the job site in such a manner that
the permit is visible from the street.
   (C)   Exceptions to the regular permit process. Permits issued under
division (A) of this section shall not be required for:
      (1)   Trees that are within the scope of a commercial development plan or
landscape plan which
has received final approval from the Louisville Metro Planning Commission or
authorized committee or staff thereof;
      (2)   Actions to be performed by the city, or a contractor for a
Louisville Metro Government agency, provided any trees removed as part of these
actions are replaced pursuant to the provisions contained herein;
      (3)   Emergency repairs by or at the direction of public utility
providers that have entered into a public utility permit agreement with a
Louisville Metro Government agency; and
      (4)   Routine tree watering and mulching.
   (D)   Emergency permit approval. A property owner may be eligible for an
emergency permit under this section without complying with the regular permit
requirements of divisions (A) and (B) of this section, upon the occurrence of
the following:
      (1)   A tree is designated by the Police Department as an imminent
threat, as defined in §
93.04 of this chapter.
      (2)   The Police Department documents and approves an emergency
application;
      (3)   After the City Police is notified and documents and approves an
emergency application, a
regular permit application is completed under division (B) of this section
within 24 hours; and
      (4)   The proof of insurance required under division (B)(5) of this
section is provided to the City
Clerk within 48 hours of the completed permit application referenced in
division (D)(3).
   (E)   Appeals. Upon denial of a permit application under the above
divisions, the property owner may request that the legislative body grant a
variance to the provisions of this chapter under Chapter 150 of this code.
   (F)   Posting permits. No work requiring a permit hereunder shall commence
until the permit holder or public utility shall have posted a permit card in
the work area. Such card shall be preserved and remain posted until the work is
completed.
(Ord. 8, Series 2019, passed 9-16-2019)
§ 93.10 PUBLIC UTILITY PERMIT AGREEMENTS.
   (A)   Except in the case of emergency repairs, it shall be unlawful for any
public utility to trim any tree, whether or not located along such public
utility’s right-of-way or easement, without first having met with the City
Forester and having obtained a permit to do so. The permit shall be issued in
accordance with §
93.09.
   (B)   (1)   The city may enter into tree permit agreements with public
utilities for activities involving similarly situated trees or groupings of
trees which permit pruning of trees, directional boring, tree encroachment and/
or tree removal, to allow reasonable construction activities or to avoid a
threat to the continuous provision of public utility services. The permit
agreement shall include clearly expressed standards describing the specific
situations where pruning, directional boring, tree encroachment and/or tree
removal is permitted to assure reasonable public utility construction
activities or to avoid a threat to the continuous provision of public utility
services. Such standards shall not interfere with the public utility’s
obligation or ability to provide service and shall be in accordance with and
not prohibit activity consistent with the public utility’s written pruning and
trenching specifications reviewed by and filed with the Kentucky Public Service
Commission, which shall be submitted to the city, or in the absence of such
specifications as mutually agreeable to the city and the public utility.
      (2)   The permit agreement shall further include provisions for
replacement of public trees that are removed as a result of the public utility
activities, which may include a fee to be paid periodically to the city for
stump grinding, tree replacement and maintenance of trees removed by the public
utility, in which case the city and not the public utility would be responsible
for such actions.
      (3)   With respect to any public utility providing multiple types of
services which by their nature have the potential to affect trees differently,
such public utility may obtain separate tree permit agreements for each such
type of service. Enforcement actions under §
93.99 of this chapter may be taken against any public utility with a valid
public utility permit agreement, or against any employee, agent, or
representative of such a public utility, only for violation of this chapter
caused by the gross negligence or intentional actions of the public utility,
employee, agent, or representative. The Forest Board may charge a public
utility a fee for the issuance of a permit under this division, provided that
such fee shall not exceed $2,400 per year. Any entity or person that performs
any work on trees as described in this chapter, may not park equipment in a
manner that may cause compaction.
(Ord. 8, Series 2019, passed 9-16-2019) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.11 PROHIBITED ACTIONS TO PUBLIC TREES.
   (A)   Prohibited actions. Except as expressly permitted pursuant to a permit
issued under §
93.09(A) and (B) of this chapter; as authorized in a public utility permit
agreement under §
93.10 of this chapter; and exempt activities under §
93.09(C) of this chapter, the following actions shall be prohibited:
      (1)   Intentional injury to a public tree, including but not limited to
carving, defacing, breaking, using climbing spikes or irons (except for
purposes of permitted tree removal), burning, attaching ropes, wires,
insulators, nails, screws, chains, posters, signs, or other objects, disturbing
or interfering with the root system, or allowing any harmful gaseous, liquid,
chemical, or solid substance to come into contact with any portion of a public
tree;
      (2)   Endangerment of a public tree by the creation of or the allowing of
the existence of situations which endanger public trees, as defined in the
Forest Board’s policies and standards;
      (3)   Topping, severely pruning, or otherwise disfiguring, any public
tree;
      (4)   Pruning a public tree for the purpose of increasing visibility of
commercial outdoor signage, off-premise advertising, or building facades;
      (5)   Destruction of a public tree by causing its physical removal by any
means or causing its effective removal by any means which creates a situation
that will more than likely lead to the imminent death of a public tree;
      (6)   Changing the natural surface grade within the drip line of a tree;
      (7)   Excessive paving or installing of an impervious surface over a
substantial portion of the drip line of a tree;
      (8)   Substantially changing natural drainage patterns in a manner which
would reasonably be expected to kill a tree; or
      (9)   All driving and parking of vehicles, including construction
equipment that could cause compaction.
   (B)   Administrative fees for prohibited actions. If the prohibited action
poses a serious threat to the public health, safety or welfare, or if the
consequences of continued violation would cause irreparable damage to one or
more public trees, the Mayor may, without further notice, proceed to abate the
condition caused by the prohibited action. In such cases, the Mayor may, in
addition to any monetary penalty imposed by this chapter, charge the
responsible person or persons with the cost of the abatement, including
equipment expense and a disposal fee, if any, as well as an administrative fee.
The fee schedule for administrative fees shall be approved by the legislative
body, posted at city hall, and published on the city’s website.
(Ord. 8, Series 2019, passed 9-16-2019) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Enforcement.
      (1)   The Forest Board, City Forester, and the City Code Enforcement
Officer shall have the right of entry onto all lands within the city at
reasonable times for purposes of determining whether a tree presents a public
tree nuisance, subject to constitutional restrictions on unreasonable searches
and seizures.
      (2)   When work or another activity affecting public trees is being
conducted in violation of this chapter, is not authorized by any applicable
permits, and poses irreparable damage to trees or threatens public safety, the
Code Enforcement Officer and Police are authorized to issue a stop work order
requiring the person or entity to cease work until a review of the activity can
be conducted by the Forest Board.
   (B)   A violation of this chapter shall be classified as a civil offense and
public nuisance and shall be enforced as provided in §
92.99.
   (C)   The civil penalty for violations under this chapter shall be not less
than $50 nor more than $1,000. Each tree in an offense involving multiple trees
shall constitute a separate offense, and each day of a violation that is
continuing in nature after a deadline for compliance has passed shall
constitute a separate offense but in no case shall the total fine exceed
$10,000.
   (D)   The city shall possess a lien on the property of the person committing
the violation for all fines, penalties, charges and fees imposed pursuant to
this section. The lien shall be superior to and have priority over all other
subsequent liens on the property except state, county, School Board, and
Louisville Metro Government and city taxes.
   (E)   In addition to the foregoing monetary penalties set out in this
section, when a violation of this chapter results in the injury, mutilation, or
death of a live public tree, the cost of repair or replacement, and/or the
appraised dollar value of such tree shall be borne by the person who violated
the chapter.
   (F)   In addition to the civil enforcement mechanism provided for the
correction of violations under this chapter, the City Attorney may institute an
action for the recovery of any penalties and costs otherwise authorized in this
chapter, and bring an action for an injunction against any person violating or
threatening to violate any provision of this chapter or any standard
established by the Forest Board pursuant thereto.
(Ord. 8, Series 2019, passed 9-16-2019)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   BUSINESS REGULATIONS
      
111.   INSURANCE COMPANIES
      112.   COMMUNICATIONS SERVICES
CHAPTER 110: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
110.01   Title
   
110.02   Definitions
Conduct of Business Prohibited
   
110.15   Conduct of business prohibited
   
110.16   License of business
   
110.17   Billboards
   
110.18   Quiet, peaceful, lawful operation
   
110.19   Operation of day nurseries
   
110.20   Signs
   
110.21   Franchises
Solicitors and Peddlers
   
110.35   Illegal solicitation and peddling
   
110.36   Exemptions
Sales
   
110.50   Permit required
   
110.51   Sale application
   
110.52   Sale permit
   
110.53   Sale sign
   
110.54   Auctions; permits and regulations
Signs
   
110.65   Advertising and business signs prohibited
 
   
110.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 110.01 TITLE.
   This chapter may be known as the “Business Regulation Code”.
(1996 Code, § 9-1.02)
§ 110.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   APARTMENT HOUSE. A multiple-family dwelling.
   APARTMENT UNIT. A part of an apartment house consisting of a room or suite
of rooms intended, designed, or used as a residence by an individual single-
family.
   BUSINESS. Includes all trades, occupations, or professions, whether or not
engaged in, carried on, pursued, or conducted in for profit.
   DAY NURSERY. Any place or institution which provides care for children away
from their own homes.
   FRANCHISE. A privilege or right granted by contract that provide services.
   HOME OCCUPATION. An occupation carried on by a resident of a dwelling as a
secondary use within the same dwelling, in connection with which there is no
person employed other than a member of the family residing on the premises, and
no mechanical equipment is used except such as is permissible for purely
domestic purposes.
   NURSERY SCHOOL AND/OR KINDERGARTEN. Any place where children between the
ages of two and five years come together for not less than two hours a day and
no more than six hours, and wherein a supervised education is offered.
   PEDDLE. To sell and make immediate delivery, or offer for sale and immediate
delivery at any place within the city, of any goods, wares, or merchandise in
possession of the seller or for immediate services to be performed.
   PEDDLER. Any person who peddles.
   SIGN. An identification, description, illustration, or device which is
affixed to or represented, directly or indirectly, upon a building, structure,
or land, and which directs attention to a product, place, activity, person,
institution, or business.
   SIGN, ADVERTISING. A sign that directs attention to a business, product,
activity, or service which is not necessarily conducted, sold, or offered upon
the premises where such sign is located.
   SIGN, BUSINESS. A sign that directs attention to a business, profession,
service, product, activity, or entertainment, sold or offered upon the premises
where such sign is located.
   SOLICIT. To sell or take orders at any place within the city for goods,
wares, or merchandise for future delivery, or for future services to be
performed.
   SOLICITOR. Any person who solicits.
   VEHICLE. Every device in, upon, or by which any person or property is or may
be transported or drawn upon a highway whether or not moved by human or
mechanical power.
   VENDING VEHICLE. Any vehicle designed or used for the purpose of peddling or
soliciting any product from such vehicle.
   YARD SALE. An occasional sale of household goods, owned, and conducted by a
resident of the city from his or her residential dwelling.
(1996 Code, § 9-1.01)
CONDUCT OF BUSINESS PROHIBITED
§ 110.15 CONDUCT OF BUSINESS PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in any business within the
city except:
   (A)   A home occupation;
   (B)   A day nursery or nursery school and/or kindergarten in accordance with
the requirements of §
110.19;
   (C)   The lease of apartment units in an apartment house existing on the
date this code becomes effective; and
   (D)   Commercial and business establishments within the city existing on the
date this code of ordinances becomes effective located on and facing the east
side of Preston Street.
(1996 Code, § 9-2.01) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.16 LICENSE OF BUSINESS.
   (A)   (1)   All persons doing business within the city as described in §
110.15(D) shall obtain a yearly business license.
      (2)   In addition, all persons doing business within the city where
alcoholic beverages are offered for sale shall obtain, in addition to the
license described in the immediately preceding sentence, a yearly alcohol
beverage license or licenses.
   (B)   The annual fee for such licenses shall be due and payable July 1 of
each and every year in the following amounts:
      (1)   $100 for a business license;
      (2)   $125 for an alcohol beverage license to sell beer; and
      (3)   $300 for an alcohol beverage license to sell whiskey, wine, and all
other distilled spirits.
   (C)   New business shall pay a pro rata part of the applicable license fee
for that fraction of a year from the beginning of the business until the
following July 1.
   (D)   Any person, firm, or corporation who fails to renew the license upon
expiration of a former license shall pay a penalty of 20% in addition to the
regular license fee.
   (E)   This section shall be effective from and after its passage, signing,
and publication as required by law.
(1996 Code, § 9-2.02) (Ord. 3 Series 1991, passed 11-25-1991) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.17 BILLBOARDS.
   (A)   Each person, company, or corporation shall pay licensee of $800 per
year for the privilege of engaging in the business of billboard advertising on
property within the zoned corporate limits of the city .
   (B)   Such license fee shall be due and payable duly each and every year.
   (C)   Billboards shall be any sign larger than 12-square feet.
   (D)   Any person, company, or corporation who fails to renew a license
within ten days following expiration shall pay a penalty of 20% in addition to
the license fee.
(1996 Code, § 9-2.03) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.18 QUIET, PEACEFUL, LAWFUL OPERATION.
   (A)   It shall be the duty and obligation of all persons conducting any
business permitted by §
110.15 to conduct and operate such business in a quiet a manner as the regular
operation of such business as will permit and to maintain peace and decorum at
all times.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to permit any loud, boisterous, or
obscene conversation; any noise or nuisance; lewd, indecent, or immoral acts;
or any disorderly conduct or any unlawful act in or upon the premises under the
control and jurisdiction of such person.
(1996 Code, § 9-2.04) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.19 OPERATION OF DAY NURSERIES.
   (A)   The operation of any nursery, nursery school, and/or kindergarten
permitted by §
110.15(B) shall be conducted in accordance with rules, regulations, and
standards governing such facilities issued from time to time by applicable
governmental authorities, and in such manner as not to adversely affect the
safety, health convenience, comfort, and general welfare of the city and the
area surrounding the location of such facility.
   (B)   The building in, and the lot on, which such nursery, nursery school,
and/or kindergarten is located shall be preserved in exterior appearance and
character as a residential dwelling and the person operating such a facility
shall make no exterior additions to or alterations to building or lot having
the effect of changing such appearance or character or maintain a business sign
on the building or lot.
(1996 Code, § 9-2.05)
§ 110.20 SIGNS.
   Nothing in this subchapter shall exempt any business permitted by §
110.15 from compliance with the provisions of this subchapter.
(1996 Code, § 9-2.06)
§ 110.21 FRANCHISES.
   (A)   All bidders for a franchise to operate within the city shall bid a
minimum of $100 per year or each year at the franchise.
   (B)   The successful bidder shall pay all costs or fees associated with the
granting of a franchise to operate within the city.
(1996 Code, § 9-2.07)
SOLICITORS AND PEDDLERS
§ 110.35 ILLEGAL SOLICITATION AND PEDDLING.
   Except as provided below, it shall be unlawful for any peddler or solicitor
or for any person to peddle or solicit by going in an upon residential property
within the city or ringing a doorbell or knocking on a door of a private
residence, including an apartment within the city, for the purpose of
soliciting orders for the sale of goods, wares, and merchandise, or peddling or
hawking the same, unless such peddler or solicitor has been requested or
invited to do so by the owner or occupant of such residence or apartment.
(1996 Code, § 9-3.01) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.36 EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   The provisions of §
110.35 shall not apply to:
      (1)   Any natural person soliciting or peddling for, or selling tickets
for, any approved religious, charitable, school, educational, veteran, or
character building organization; or
      (2)   Fraternal organizations having established local chapters;
   (B)   All such persons referred to in divisions (A)(1) and (A)(2) above
shall register with the City Clerk or the City Police Department and obtain a
permit, at no cost, before proceeding with such solicitation.
(1996 Code, § 9-3.02)
SALES
§ 110.50 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to conduct a sale within the city
without first making application and obtaining a permit therefor from the Mayor
or his or her designee. Only one permit will be issued per year for each
residence.
(1996 Code, § 9-4.01) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.51 SALE APPLICATION.
   (A)   An application for a permit, signed by the person desiring to conduct
a sale, shall be filed with the city, and such information as may be required
by the Mayor or his or her designee including:
      (1)   The date or dates of the proposed sale;
      (2)   The location of the proposed sale;
      (3)   What provisions are to be made for parking and access to the
proposed sale;
      (4)   A description of the household goods to be offered for sale and
that such goods are owned by the applicant and were ordinarily used by him or
her at his or her residence;
      (5)   The date of the last previous sale, if any, conducted by the
applicant and the location of such sale; and
      (6)   Goods offered for sale shall be displayed other than the front yard
and permits for sale shall be attached to “sale” sign front yard.
(1996 Code, § 9-4.02)
   (B)   If the city designates a date for an annual or semi-annual communal
sale and a resident seeks to participate, he or she may do so without having to
obtain a required permit from the city.
(Ord. 5, Series 2019, passed 9-16-2019)
§ 110.52 SALE PERMIT.
   (A)   Approval.
      (1)   If the legislative body or the Mayor or his or her designee is
satisfied that the proposed sale will not adversely affect the safety, health,
convenience, comfort, and general welfare of the city and the area surrounding
the location of the proposed sale, and that the proposed sale is an occasional
sale and not in pursuit of a course of conduct evidencing a trade or business
for profit, it shall issue a permit for such sale.
      (2)   That permit shall specify the location and the date or dates of the
permitted sale which shall not be more than two consecutive days and such other
conditions which the Mayor or his or her designee deems necessary and proper to
protect the public safety, health, convenience, comfort, and general welfare of
the city and the area surrounding the location of the proposed sale.
   (B)   Disapproval.
      (1)   If the application is incomplete or the Mayor or his or her
designee determines that the proposed sale would adversely affect the safety,
health, convenience, comfort, and general welfare of the city and the area
surrounding the location of the proposed sale or that such sale is not an
occasional sale or is in pursuit of a course of conduct evidencing a trade, or
business for profit, no permit shall be issued and the applicant shall be so
notified.
      (2)   When requested by the applicant, such refusal shall be in writing
and shall contain the reasons therefor.
(1996 Code, § 9-4.05)
§ 110.53 SALE SIGN.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to erect a sign advertising a sale
within the city except at the location of a sale for which a permit therefor
has been issued by the Mayor or his or her designee as provided in this
subchapter.
(1996 Code, § 9-4.06) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.54 AUCTIONS; PERMITS AND REGULATIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to conduct an auction of any real
property within the city without first making application at least seven days
in advance and obtaining a permit therefor from the city.
   (B)   There shall be a fee of $100 per day for such permit, and the
auctioneer shall announce the parking ordinances of the city and a sign shall
be posted at the side stating that parking is not permitted on the grass of any
right-of-way of any street or within any park of the city.
   (C)   A fire lane must be open at all times.
(1996 Code, § 9-4.07) Penalty, see §
110.99
SIGNS
§ 110.65 ADVERTISING AND BUSINESS SIGNS PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to erect or display any advertising or
business sign within the city except:
   (A)   Temporary for sale or for rent signs, not to exceed four-square feet
in area, erected on the lot of and is connected with the sale or lease of real
property within the city;
   (B)   Yard sale signs erected on the lot where, and in connection with, a
yard sale permitted by the provisions of this subchapter; and
   (C)   Business signs erected and attached to the commercial premises within
the city located on and facing the east side of Preston Street so long as such
signs conform with the applicable rules and regulations of the Louisville
County and County Planning Commission in effect from time to time.
(1996 Code, § 9-5.01) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter constitutes
a civil offense, subject to a maximum civil fine of $150 if uncontested and a
minimum civil fine of $300 if contested. Each day a violation occurs shall
constitute a separate offense. All past due civil fines are also subject to
monthly interest of 1.5%, court costs, and costs associated with collection.
   (B)   Failure or refusal to procure a license pursuant to §
110.16 shall, upon conviction, carry a fine of not less than $25 nor more that
$50, plus the cost of prosecution.
(1996 Code, § 9-2.02)
   (C)   Any person, company, or corporation who falls or refuses to procure a
license pursuant to §
110.17 after ten days following due date shall, in addition to the license fee
and penalty, pay a penalty of not less than $25 per day for each day of
operating without a license
(1996 Code, § 9-2.03)
   (D)   Violators of any provisions of §
110.54 shall be fined not less than $300 for each offense, plus any court costs
as may be imposed.
(1996 Code, § 9-4.07)
(Ord. 3 Series 1991, passed 11-25-1991)
CHAPTER 111: INSURANCE COMPANIES
Section
   
111.01   License fee
   
111.02   Fee assessment
   
111.03   Payment
   
111.04   Report of collections
§ 111.01 LICENSE FEE.
   There is hereby imposed on each insurance company a license fee for the
privilege of engaging in the business of insurance within the corporate limits
of the city.
(Ord. 2, Series 2015, passed 3-16-2015)
§ 111.02 FEE ASSESSMENT.
   The license fee imposed upon each insurance company shall be 9% of the
premiums actually collected within each calendar quarter by reason of the
issuance or renewal of its policies within the corporate limits of the city on
those classes of business which such company is authorized to transact, less
all premiums returned to policyholders; however, any license fee or tax imposed
upon premium receipts shall not include premiums received for insuring
employers against liability for personal injuries to their employees, or death
caused thereby, under the provisions of the worker's compensation acts and
shall not include premiums received on the policies of group health insurance.
(Ord. 2, Series 2015, passed 3-16-2015)
§ 111.03 PAYMENT.
   (A)   All license fees imposed by this chapter shall be due and payable by
insurers to the city no later than 30 days after the end of each calendar
quarter.
   (B)   License fees which are not paid to the city in the manner prescribed
above on or before the due date shall bear interest at the tax interest rate
determined by KRS 131.183.
(Ord. 2, Series 2015, passed 3-16-2015)
§ 111.04 REPORT OF COLLECTIONS.
   Every insurance company subject to the license fees imposed by this chapter
shall annually, by March 31, furnish the city a written report of all
collections in the preceding calendar year for each of the following categories
of insurance:
   (A)   Casualty;
   (B)   Automobile;
   (C)   Inland marine;
   (D)   Fire and allied perils;
   (E)   Life;
   (F)   Health; and
   (G)   All other risks.
(Ord. 2, Series 2015, passed 3-16-2015)
CHAPTER 112: COMMUNICATIONS SERVICES
Section
   
112.01   General provisions
   
112.02   Franchise requirements and characteristics
   
112.03   Rights-of-way management and facilities requirements
   
112.04   Miscellaneous
   
112.05   Transitional provisions
   
112.06   Franchisees providing communications service to customers
   
112.07   Private communications facilities
   
112.08   Liabilities and penalties
   
112.09   Remedies not exclusive
   
112.10   Review, termination, and cancellation
   
112.11   Foreclosure-receivership
   
112.12   Reports
   
112.13   Books and records of the franchise
   
112.14   Time of essence
   
112.15   Equal employment opportunity
   
112.16   Aesthetic standards
 
   
112.99   Penalty
§ 112.01 GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Declaration of findings. The city hereby declares as a legislative
finding that the rights-of-way controlled by the city:
      (1)   Are a unique and physically limited resource;
      (2)   Are critical to the travel and transport of persons and property in
the city;
      (3)   Are intended for public uses and must be managed and controlled
consistent with that intent;
      (4)   Can be partially occupied by the facilities of providers of
communications service, to the enhancement of the health, welfare, and general
economic well-being of the city and its citizens; and
      (5)   Should be subject to specific additional regulations imposed in a
competitively neutral, non-discriminatory, and non-discretionary manner as
established by this chapter to ensure coordination of providers of
communications service, maximize available space, and facilitate entry of a
maximum number of providers of communications service and other services in the
public interest.
   (B)   Title. This chapter may be referred to and cited as the
"Communications Service Franchise Ordinance."
   (C)   Applicability. The requirements of this chapter shall apply to the
full extent of the terms herein and shall be limited in scope or application
only to the extent as may be required by applicable federal or state law,
including such changes in applicable law as may be hereinafter enacted. No
provisions of this chapter shall be disregarded pursuant to this division
except on express application to and determination by the city to such effect
based on the specific factual circumstances demonstrated. The provisions of
this chapter shall be deemed incorporated in each franchise granted.
   (D)   Preservation of authority. Any rights granted pursuant to this chapter
and pursuant to any franchise authorized hereunder are subject to the authority
of the city to adopt and enforce generally applicable ordinances and
regulations necessary to the health, safety, and welfare of the public, as may
be amended from time to time (to the extent not in conflict with state or
federal law, or franchisee's franchise). Nothing in this chapter shall be
deemed to waive a right, if any, that any party may have to seek judicial or
regulatory review as to the provisions herein or as to actions of the parties
under applicable federal, state, or local law currently in effect or as may
hereinafter be amended.
   (E)   Public inspection of records. Certain information required to be filed
with the city pursuant to this chapter is subject to inspection and copying by
the public pursuant to the provisions of the Kentucky Open Records Act, KRS
61.870 et seq.
   (F)   Indemnification. As a condition of use of the rights-of-way, each
franchisee at its sole cost and expense, shall indemnify, protect, defend and
hold harmless the city, its elected officials, officers, employees, and agents,
from and against any and all claims, demands, losses, damages, liabilities,
fines, charges, penalties, administrative and judicial proceedings and orders,
judgments, remedial actions of any kind, and all costs and expenses of any
kind, including, without limitation, reasonable attorney's fees and costs of
defense arising, directly or indirectly, in whole or in part, out of or in
relation to the city's award of the franchise to that franchisee, the rights
granted to the franchisee, or the activities performed, or failed to be
performed, by such franchisee under the franchise or use of the rights-of-way,
except to the extent such acts or use arise from or are caused by the
negligence or willful misconduct of the city, its elected officials, officers,
or employees. This indemnification shall survive the expiration or termination
of any franchise or use of the rights-of-way. The city shall give franchisee
written notice of its obligation to indemnify the city within ten days of
receipt of a claim or action pursuant to this division. In the event any such
claim arises, the city shall tender the defense thereof to the franchisee and
the franchisee shall have the right to defend, settle, or compromise any claims
arising thereunder and the city shall cooperate fully with franchisee's
efforts. If the city determines in good faith that its interests cannot be
represented by the franchisee, the franchisee shall be excused from any
obligation to indemnify the city.
   (G)   Compliance with laws. In performing activities and exercising rights
and obligations under any franchise, each franchisee and other holder of a
franchise shall comply with all applicable federal and state laws, and,
consistent with division (D), local laws, ordinances, regulations and policies,
including, but not limited to, all laws, ordinances, regulations and policies
relating to construction and use of rights-of-way.
   (H)   Enforcement; attorney’s fees. The city shall be entitled to enforce
this chapter and any franchise granted hereunder through all remedies lawfully
available, and each franchisee shall pay the city its costs of enforcement,
including but not limited to reasonable attorney’s fees, in the event that
franchisee is determined judicially to have violated the terms of this
franchise.
   (I)   Relationship of the parties. Under no circumstances shall any
franchise authorized by this chapter be construed to create any relationship of
agency, partnership, joint venture, or employment between the city and the
franchisee.
   (J)   Defined terms. For purposes of this chapter, the following terms,
phrases, words, and their derivatives shall have the meanings set forth in this
division, unless the context clearly indicates that another meaning is
intended. Words used in the present tense include the future tense, words in
the singular number include the plural number, and words in the plural number
include the singular. The words "shall" and "will" are mandatory, and "may" is
permissive. Words not defined shall be given their common and ordinary meaning.
      AFFILIATE. As to any person, each person, directly or indirectly,
controlling, controlled by, or under common control with such person.
      ANTENNA. The same meaning as in 47 C.F.R. § 1.6002(b), an apparatus
designed for the purpose of emitting radio frequency (RF) radiation, to be
operated or operating from a fixed location pursuant to FCC authorization, for
the provision of personal wireless service and any commingled information
services.
      COMMUNICATIONS. The transmission via the facilities, in whole or in part,
of video, audio, data, writings, signs, signals, pictures, sounds or other
forms of information or intelligence through wire, wireless or other electronic
means, regardless of the federal or state statutory or regulatory scheme to
which such transmissions may be subject.
      COMMUNICATIONS SERVICE. The transmission of communications via
facilities, to a customer, or to any other person, including a private
communications system owner's provision of communications via a private
communications system, that is within or outside the territorial limits of the
city. Communications service includes, but is not limited to,
"telecommunications service," "enhanced service," "information service,"
"internet access service," "broadband service," "cable service," "video
programming service," "other programming service," and internet-based or "over
the top" video service offerings, as those terms are now, or may in the future
be, defined under federal law. The term also includes the use of all
instrumentalities, facilities, conduits, apparatus and services or
functionalities (among other things, the receipt, forwarding, storage,
generation or delivery of communications), incidental to or designed to
directly or indirectly facilitate or accept communications.
      CUSTOMER. A person located within the territorial limits of the city who
ultimately uses or is intended to ultimately use communications service
provided by a franchisee and is the ultimate last user of a communications
service.
      FACILITIES. Any portion of a system located in, along, over, upon, under,
or through the rights-of-way.
      FCC. The Federal Communications Commission of the United States of
America or any successor thereto.
      FRANCHISE. A franchise granted under this chapter, or any other franchise
granted by the city pursuant to Sections 163 and 164 of the Kentucky
Constitution, or by the Kentucky General Assembly prior to the adoption of
Sections 163 and 164 of the Kentucky Constitution, which permits a franchisee
to install or operate any facilities in the rights-of-way to provide
communications service. Use of this definition in this chapter is not intended
to include any license or permit for the privilege of transacting and carrying
on a business within the city, as may be required by any other ordinance or
laws of the city or the state.
      FRANCHISEE. The person to whom a franchise is granted, or its successors,
assigns, or transferees.
      FRANCHISE FEE. The fee imposed by the city on franchisee for use of the
rights-of-way pursuant to a franchise granted under this chapter.
      LESSEE. A person who provides communications service within the city
solely by leasing facilities and who has no control over what, where or how any
facilities are erected, installed, maintained, operated, repaired, removed,
restored or otherwise used.
      PERSON. Individual, partnership, association, corporation, joint venture,
legal entity or organization of any kind.
      POLE. A utility, lighting, or similar pole made of wood, concrete, metal,
or other material, located or to be located within a public right-of-way. The
term does not include a tower or support structure.
      PRIVATE COMMUNICATIONS SYSTEM. A system used for delivering
communications by a person solely in connection with the internal
communications needs of such person's business, provided that such person does
not use, or permit the use of, such system to provide communications service to
a customer or any other person.
      PRIVATE COMMUNICATIONS SYSTEM OWNER. A person that owns or leases a
private communications system.
      RESELLER SERVICE PROVIDER. A person who provides communications service
within the city solely by reselling communications service and who has no
control over what, where or how any facilities are erected, installed,
maintained, operated, repaired, removed, restored or otherwise used.
      RIGHTS-OF-WAY. The surface and space on, above, and below every street,
alley, road, highway, lane or other property dedicated or commonly used now or
hereafter for utility purposes and facilities in the city. Rights-of-way shall
not include public property owned or leased by the city and not intended for
rights-of-way use, including, but not limited to, parks, public works property,
buildings or overhead lighting.
      SMALL WIRELESS FACILITIES. Wireless facilities that meet each of the
following conditions:
         (a)   The facilities are mounted on poles, towers, or support
structures 55 feet or less in height including their antennas;
         (b)   Each antenna associated with the deployment, excluding
associated antenna equipment, is no more than three cubic feet in volume;
         (c)   All other wireless facilities associated with the structure,
including the wireless facilities associated with the antenna and any
associated equipment on the structure, including colocations, is no more than
15 cubic feet in volume, cumulatively. The following types of associated,
ancillary equipment are not included in the calculation of equipment volume:
electric meter, telecommunications demarcation box, grounding equipment, power
transfer switch, cut-off switch, and vertical cable runs for connection of
power and other services;
         (d)   The facilities do not require antenna structure registration
under federal law;
         (e)   The facilities do not result in human exposure to radio
frequency radiation in excess of the applicable safety standards provided in
federal law; and
         (f)   Small wireless facilities do not include poles, towers, or
support structures.
      STATE. The Commonwealth of Kentucky.
      SUPPORT STRUCTURE. A structure in the right-of-way other than a pole or a
tower to which a wireless facility is attached at the time of the application
for an installation permit.
      SYSTEM. Any and all equipment, structures, materials or tangible
components located in the rights-of-way and used to provide communications
service, including without limitation all plants (whether inside or outside),
cabinets, surface location markers, fiber strands, electronic equipment,
amplification equipment, optic equipment, transmission and distribution
structures, antennas, lines, pipes, mains, conduit, ducts, regenerators,
repeaters, vaults, pedestals, manholes, handholds, pull boxes, splice closures,
wires, cables, towers, wave guides, and anything else designed and constructed
for the purpose of producing, receiving, amplifying or distributing
communications service.
      TOWER. Any structure in the public right-of-way built for the sole or
primary purpose of supporting a wireless facility. A tower does not include a
pole or a support structure.
      WIRELESS FACILITY.
         (a)   A portion of a system that enables wireless services, but does
not include:
            1.   The support structure, tower, or pole on, under, or within
which the equipment is located or collocated; or
            2.   Coaxial, fiber-optic or other cabling that is between
facilities or poles or that is otherwise not immediately adjacent to or
directly associated with a particular antenna.
         (b)   A small wireless facility is one example of a wireless facility.
      WIRELESS SERVICES. Any personal wireless services (which includes any of
the technologies as defined by Section 704(a)(7)(c)(i) of the Federal
Telecommunications Act of 1996, including cellular, personal communications
services (PCS), enhanced specialized mobile radio (ESMR), specialized mobile
radio (SMR), and paging, using a licensed or unlicensed radio frequency (RF)
portion of the electromagnetic spectrum, whether at a fixed location or mobile,
provided to the public.
(Ord. 4, Series 2024, passed 11-18-2024)
§ 112.02 FRANCHISE REQUIREMENTS AND CHARACTERISTICS.
   (A)   Unlawful to operate without a franchise. Unless otherwise specifically
authorized under applicable federal or state law, it shall be unlawful for any
person to own, erect, install, maintain, operate, repair, replace, remove or
restore any facilities in the rights-of-way in the city that are used to
provide communications services without a valid, unexpired franchise from the
city. Unless otherwise provided hereinafter by city ordinance, reseller service
providers and lessees shall not be required to obtain a franchise. Private
communication systems shall not require a franchise but shall be licensed
pursuant to §
112.07.
   (B)   Franchises nonexclusive. The authority granted by the city in any
franchise shall be for the nonexclusive use of the rights-of-way. The city
specifically reserves the right to grant, at any time, such additional
franchises or other rights to use the rights-of-way for any purpose to any
other person, including itself, as it deems appropriate, subject to all
applicable laws.
   (C)   Nature of rights granted by any franchise. Franchises shall not convey
title, equitable or legal, in the rights-of-way, and shall give only the right
to occupy rights-of-way, for the purposes and for the period stated in this
chapter and as may be further modified by the franchise in a nondiscriminatory
and competitively neutral manner. No franchise may excuse franchisee from
obtaining appropriate access or attachment agreements before locating its
facilities on another person's facilities. All franchises shall be deemed to
incorporate and be limited by the provisions of this chapter.
   (D)   Application and application fee required. Applications for an original
franchise granted hereunder shall be filed with the city pursuant to the
advertisement. All applications received by the city from the applicants will
become the sole property of the city. Applicants shall submit all requested
information as provided by the terms of this chapter. The following information
must be complete and verified as true by the applicant:
      (1)   Application fee. Applications shall be accompanied by a non-
refundable application fee of $5,000 payable to the city. The application fee
shall be established at the rate set forth above, effective upon final passage
of this chapter. Thereafter, the application fee shall be altered every two
years, to the nearest ten dollar increment, if required, in proportion change
to the most recently-published consumer price index (CPI) for communications
services at the time. The application fee shall defray in whole or part the
city's costs to process any application filed under this chapter and negotiate,
award and administer any franchise.
      (2)   Name and address of applicant. The applicant's name, address, e-
mail address and telephone and facsimile numbers; date of application and
signature of applicant or appropriate corporate officer(s); the name, address
and e-mail address, and telephone and facsimile numbers of a local
representative who shall be reasonably available at all times; and information
regarding how to contact the local representative in an emergency.
      (3)   Description of proposed system. Applicants for an original
franchise to construct a new system shall provide a description of the proposed
system. At a minimum, the description shall include:
         (a)   General description of the project by geographical area.
         (b)   Provide a description of the proposed system components to
include but not be limited to:
            1.   Anticipated number and general location of small cell
antennas;
            2.   Location (aerial/underground) of fiber. Where possible,
provide estimated percent aerial and percent underground;
            3.   Anticipated ground level elements (GLEs) and general
locations.
         (c)   For underground fiber installation, discuss proposed
installation methodologies. The narrative shall address compliance with FCC
standards as related to applicable equipment such as small cell antennas and
current acceptable RF design standards currently in practice as well as to
those standards found in local ordinances and/or regulations.
         (d)   Discuss anticipated project phasing based on geographic and/or
right-of-way limitations, limitations imposed by local events and those
internal limitations affected by finance and project logistics.
      (4)   Communications service. The applicant shall provide a statement
setting forth a general description of the communications service the applicant
plans to provide over the system.
      (5)   Applicant organization. The applicant shall be a corporation or
limited liability company, partnership or other person authorized to do
business in the state, as certified by the Secretary of State. The applicant
must fully disclose the ownership of the proposed facilities and system.
      (6)   Additional requirements.
         (a)   Supplementary, additional or other information that the
applicant deems reasonable for consideration may be submitted at the same time
as its application but must be separately bound and submitted with three
copies. The city may, at its discretion, consider such additional information
as part of the application.
         (b)   Applications may be modified at any time prior to the opening of
the applications, provided that any modifications must be duly executed in the
manner that the applicant's application must be executed.
         (c)   A copy of the applicant's certificate of authority from the
Public Service Commission (PSC) where the applicant is lawfully required to
have such certificate from the PSC.
         (d)   A copy of the applicant's certificate of authority from the FCC
where the applicant is lawfully required to have such certificate from the FCC.
         (e)   A copy of all insurance certificates required under this
chapter.
         (f)   A statement signed by the applicant that the applicant agrees to
be bound by all provisions of the franchise and agrees to obtain all applicable
permits and authorizations prior to constructing, installing, or operating a
system in the rights-of-way.
         (g)   The information provided by applicant shall be certified as true
and correct, and applicant shall be responsible to certify to the city any
material changes to the information provided in the completed application
during the term of any franchise.
      (7)   Supplementation to applications. The city reserves the right to
require such supplementary, additional or other information that it deems
reasonably necessary for its determinations.
      (8)   The city's rights reserved. The city reserves the right to waive
all formalities and/or technicalities where the best interest of the city may
be served, provided that it shall exercise this right in a nondiscriminatory
and competitively neutral manner.
   (E)   Standards and procedures for approval or renewal of franchises.
Franchises shall be granted in accordance with Kentucky Constitution Sections
163 and 164. The city shall grant franchises or renewals to any eligible
franchisee for the right and privilege to construct, own, operate, repair,
replace and maintain facilities in, through and along the city's rights-of-way
for the purposes of providing communications service on a nonexclusive basis
within the city, subject, however, to the standards, terms and conditions
herein set forth within this chapter, and any special conditions as may be
provided for in the franchise. All franchisees shall be required to obtain and
maintain any necessary and lawful permit, license certification, grant,
registration or any other authorization required by any appropriate
governmental entity, including, but not limited to, the city, the FCC and the
PSC. The city may establish standard franchises setting forth the minimum
requirements for all franchisees. Renewals, cancellations, terminations or
expirations of franchises granted to cable operators shall be governed by and
comply with the provisions of Section 626 of the federal Cable Act, 47 U.S.C. §
546, or any such successor statute, and applicable law, including judicial
review and appeals.
   (F)   Acceptance and effective date of franchise. Any franchise granted
hereunder, together with the rights, privileges and authority granted thereby,
shall take effect and be in force from and after the effective date of a
resolution granting a franchise hereunder, provided that on or before that date
franchisee shall:
      (1)   Enter into and execute such agreements and documents as required by
the city that are consistent with the terms and provisions of this chapter and
applicable law;
      (2)   File such bond or bonds as required by this chapter; and
      (3)   Advise the city in writing of franchisee's address for mail and
official notifications from the city.
   (G)   Use of rights-of-way; police powers; franchisee's use subordinate. A
franchisee shall construct and maintain its facilities in accordance with all
applicable federal, state and local laws, including all permit requirements and
associated fee payments, and all other city codes and ordinances in effect as
of the date of the award of its franchise or thereafter adopted or amended, to
the extent permitted by state or federal law, subject to §
112.01(D). The grant of a franchise does not in any way affect the continuing
authority of the city through the proper exercise of its Home Rule or statutory
powers to adopt and enforce ordinances necessary to provide for the health,
safety and welfare of the public. The city makes no express or implied
representation or warranty regarding its rights to authorize the installation
or construction of facilities on any particular segment of rights-of-way. The
burden and responsibility for making all such determinations in advance of
construction or installation shall be entirely upon the franchisee. The use of
the rights-of-way authorized by any franchise shall in all matters be
subordinate to the city's use and rights therein. Without limiting the
generality of the foregoing:
      (1)   All rights and privileges granted herein are subject to the police
powers of the city and its rights under applicable laws and regulations to
regulate the construction, operation, and maintenance of franchisee's system,
subject to §
112.01(D), including, but not limited to, the right to adopt and enforce
additional ordinances and regulations as the city shall find necessary in the
exercise of its police powers, the right to adopt and enforce applicable
zoning, building, permitting and safety ordinances and regulations, the right
to adopt and enforce regulations relating to equal employment opportunities,
and the right to adopt and enforce ordinances and regulations concerning the
rights-of-way and utility standards. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the city
will administer and enforce the provisions of this chapter and any franchises
granted pursuant thereto in a nondiscriminatory and competitively neutral
manner, including with respect to any governmental entity providing or seeking
to provide communications service (whether directly or pursuant to an agreement
with any person) using the rights-of-way.
      (2)   The city reserves the right to exercise its police powers. Any
conflict between the provisions of this chapter or a franchise and any other
present or future lawful exercise of the city's police powers shall be resolved
in favor of the police powers.
      (3)   Franchisee shall not be excused from complying with any of the
requirements of this chapter or any subsequently adopted and lawfully binding
amendments to this chapter by any failure of the city on any one or more
occasions to seek, or insist upon, compliance with such requirements or
provisions.
   (H)   Emergencies.
      (1)   Franchisee shall assign a management level individual to coordinate
with, and assist the city in the development of emergency plans.
      (2)   If at any time, in case of fire or disaster or other emergency
situation in the city, it shall become necessary in the reasonable judgment of
the city to cut, raise, lower, or relocate any facilities, such cutting,
raising, lowering, or relocating may be done, and any repairs rendered
necessary thereby shall be made by franchisee, at its sole expense. Nothing in
this chapter shall prohibit or limit any rights of a franchisee under
applicable law to recover its reasonable costs incurred pursuant to this
division (H)(2) to cut, raise, lower, or relocate facilities from the person(s)
responsible for the fire, disaster, or other emergency situation.
   (I)   Term. A franchise shall be for a term not to exceed ten years.
   (J)   Franchise fees. The city has elected to exercise its constitutional
right to impose and collect franchise fees. The percentage of franchise fee and
method of calculation imposed on any franchisee shall be equal when compared to
the percentage or method of calculation of the franchise fee applicable to any
other franchisee authorized by the city to provide the same communications
service. The franchise fee shall be 5% of gross revenues received by franchisee
for services upon which such franchise fee can be lawfully assessed under
federal law, as determined in accordance with generally accepted accounting
principles, and gross revenues will not include any taxes, fees or assessments
collected by the franchisee for pass-through to a government agency, including
the franchise fee or any FCC user fee; bad debt; credits, refunds and deposits
paid to customers; and any exclusions available under applicable state law;
provided that if a franchisee is paying a franchise fee lower than 5% of gross
revenues as of the effective date of this chapter, such franchisee shall have
90 days following such effective date to implement the higher 5% franchise fee.
   (K)   Timing of payment of franchise fees. Unless otherwise agreed to in
writing, all franchise fees shall be due and payable on a quarterly basis and
payment shall be made on or before the date which is 30 calendar days after the
last day of the calendar quarter for which the payment applies (the "due
date"); provided, however, that in the event that a franchisee ceases to
provide communications service for any reason (including as a result of a sale
or transfer of the franchisee's system), such franchisee shall make a final
payment of any amounts owed to the city on or before the date which is 30
calendar days after the date on which its operations in the city cease (which
shall be deemed a "due date" for purposes of this chapter).
   (L)   Interest on late payments and under payments. If any franchise fee, or
any portion thereof, is not received by the city on or before the due date,
interest thereon shall accrue from the due date until received, at the rate of
1.5% per month, unless such other maximum rate is established by applicable
law.
   (M)   Fee statement. Franchise fee payments shall be accompanied by a
statement (a “fee statement”) showing the manner in which the franchise fee was
calculated.
   (N)   No accord and satisfaction. No acceptance by the city of any franchise
fee or any other payment shall be construed as an accord that the amount paid
is in fact the correct amount, nor shall acceptance of any franchise fee or any
other payment be construed as a release of any claim of the city.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, franchisees shall not be required to maintain
any books and records related to its calculation of the franchise fee or any
other payment longer than three years.
   (O)   Description of communications service. During the term of the
franchise, franchisee shall either include the material types of communications
services offered over its facilities in the rights-of-way within the city on a
publicly available website, or provide the city with a description of any
material changes to the types of communications service offered over its
facilities in the rights-of-way within the city during the prior year. Any
individual communications service or item for which the franchisee has a
separate charge shall be considered a separate communications service.
   (P)   Franchise fee not a tax; payment of taxes. The franchise fee is
compensation for the use of the rights-of-way and shall in no way be deemed a
tax of any kind. The franchise fees required herein shall be in addition to,
not in lieu of, any and all taxes, charges, assessments, licenses, fees and
impositions otherwise applicable to franchisee that are or may be imposed by
the city. A franchisee shall be fully responsible for the payment of all
applicable taxes.
   (Q)   Assignment of franchise. A franchisee shall provide the city with
written notice of any transfer or assignment of the franchise. A franchisee
shall not sell, assign, sublet, dispose of or otherwise transfer a franchise
(or any of the rights or privileges granted by such franchise), franchisee's
system, or control of franchisee to another entity other than by operation of
law or to an entity controlling, controlled by, or under common control with
the franchisee, without the prior written consent of the city. No such consent
shall be required, however, for a transfer in trust, by mortgage, by other
hypothecation, or by assignment of any rights, title, or interest of the
franchisee in the franchise or system to secure indebtedness. The city's
consent to such a transfer shall not be withheld if the acquiring entity would
have qualified for an original franchise had it applied and if the acquiring
entity demonstrates it has the same or equivalent insurance coverage and bonds
in place as is required of the original franchisee. Nothing in any approval by
the city of any transfer pursuant to this division shall be construed to waive,
release or delegate any rights or powers of the city to hold the original
franchisee liable for any violation of its franchise.
   (R)   Forfeiture of franchise and privilege. In case of failure on the part
of a franchisee, its successors and assigns, to comply with any of the material
provisions of this chapter or its franchise, or if the franchisee, its
successors and assigns, should do or cause to be done any material act or thing
prohibited by or in violation of this chapter or the terms of its franchise,
the franchisee, its successors and assigns, shall forfeit all rights and
privileges permitted by this chapter and its franchise, and all rights
hereunder shall cease, terminate and become null and void, provided that said
forfeiture shall not take effect until the city shall carry out the proceedings
specified in §
112.10(B).
   (S)   Security for payment of fees.
      (1)   A franchisee may be required to provide to the city an irrevocable
letter of credit in the amount of $25,000, or one half of the annual franchise
fee owed, whichever is less, to secure the payment of the franchise fee for the
first two years in which the franchisee is subject to a franchise fee. If there
has been no default in paying the franchise fee nor any late payment of the
franchise fee during such two-year period, the letter of credit shall be
released, and if there has been no default nor any late payment of any payment
due to the city by any incumbent franchisee for the past two years, no letter
of credit shall be required.
      (2)   This division is inoperative during any period of time during which
the city elects to participate in the state baseline and local growth funds
under KRS 136.600 et seq., and to have franchisees taxed accordingly.
   (T)   Special rules for governmental entities. Nothing herein shall be read
to require a governmental entity to comply with this chapter where the city
cannot enforce this chapter against such entity as a matter of law. The city is
authorized to enter into agreements with other governmental agencies to
facilitate the city's use and management of the rights-of-way, and such
agreements shall be enforceable according to their respective terms and
notwithstanding any provision of this chapter.
(Ord. 4, Series 2024, passed 11-18-2024)
§ 112.03 RIGHTS-OF-WAY MANAGEMENT AND FACILITIES REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Encroachment permit. A franchisee shall be subject to and comply with
the additional or supplementary terms and conditions of any encroachment on
rights-of-way permit, as may be amended from time to time, subject to §
112.01(D).
   (B)   Removal of facilities. Upon expiration of a franchise, whether by
lapse of time, by agreement between the franchisee and the city, or by
forfeiture thereof, the franchisee shall remove, at its sole cost, from the
rights-of-way any and all of its facilities that are the subject of such
franchise within a reasonable time after such expiration, not to exceed 90
days, and, it shall be the duty of the franchisee immediately upon such removal
to restore the rights-of-way from which the facilities are removed to as good
condition as the same were before the removal was effected and as required by
the city. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the city may allow facilities to be
left in place when the city determines in its sole discretion that it is not
practical or desirable to require removal.
   (C)   Relocation of facilities. Whenever the city shall in its exercise of
the public interest request of the franchisee to relocate or reinstall any of
its facilities, the franchisee shall, within ten days remove, relocate, or
reinstall any such facilities as may be reasonably necessary to meet the
request. The cost of such relocation, removal, or reinstallation of the
facilities shall be the exclusive obligation of the franchisee. Upon request of
any other person requesting relocation of facilities and holding a validly
issued building or moving permit of the city, a franchisee shall, within ten
days, temporarily raise, lower, or relocate its wires or other facilities as
may be required for the person to exercise the rights under the permit;
provided, however, that the franchisee may require such permit holder to make
payment to franchisee in advance for any expenses incurred by the franchisee to
temporarily move its facilities pursuant to such person's request.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, a franchisee shall not be required to
underground its aerial facilities in a particular area unless the city imposes
a similar undergrounding obligation upon all other franchisees and users of the
rights-of-way in that area. To the extent that any utility or other right-of-
way occupant is required to remove or relocate its facilities as part of the
same, or related, right-of-way alteration, route or location change affecting
franchisee, franchisee shall not be treated in a discriminatory manner relative
to such utilities. Franchisee shall receive no less advance notice and shall be
provided the same right to reimbursement for removing or relocating its
facilities as any utility receives from the city.
   (D)   Franchisee responsible for costs. A franchisee shall be responsible
for all reasonable costs incurred by the city that are directly associated with
the franchisee's erecting, installing, maintaining, operating, repairing,
replacing, removing or restoring its facilities in the rights-of-way. A
franchisee shall be responsible for its own costs incurred in removing or
relocating its facilities when required by the city due to the city
requirements relating to maintenance and use of the rights-of-way for the city
purposes.
   (E)   Insurance and bonds. During the term of any franchise, a franchisee
shall obtain and maintain at its sole expense, all insurance and bonds required
by this chapter. It is expressly understood that the city does not in any way
represent that the specified limits of liability or coverage or policy forms
are sufficient or adequate to protect the interest or liabilities of
franchisee.
      (1)   Each franchisee shall file with the city a franchise bond in the
amount of $15,000 which shall be required to be in place for the entire term of
the franchise. In addition, a franchisee seeking to construct or install a
system in the city shall file with the city a performance bond in an amount to
be determined by the city. In no event shall the amount of the performance bond
required by the city exceed the reasonable costs of repairing the rights-of-way
in the event of non-performance by the franchisee. The performance bond shall
provide for the faithful performance of construction and installation of
franchisee's system. Two years after demonstration of the completion of the
construction of the system by franchisee to the city, the city shall release
the performance bond.
      (2)   The performance bond shall indemnify the city in its own right and
as trustee, from any damages or losses arising out of the failure of franchisee
to faithfully perform and satisfactorily complete construction of the system in
accordance with this chapter.
      (3)   The failure of franchisee to comply with its obligations under this
chapter or the franchise as determined by the city shall entitle the city to
draw against either or both of the franchisee's bonds, subject to §
112.10(B).
      (4)   The rights reserved to the city with respect to the performance and
franchise bonds required hereunder are in addition to all other rights of the
city, whether reserved by this chapter or authorized by law, and no action,
proceeding or exercise of a right with respect to such performance or franchise
bonds shall affect any other rights the city may have.
      (5)   Unless otherwise released by the city, the performance and
franchise bonds required hereunder shall not expire or be materially altered
without 30 days written notice and without securing and delivering to the city
a substitute, renewal and replacement bond in conformance with this chapter. In
the event the city does draw monies against the performance bond required
hereunder, within ten days thereafter, franchisee shall pay such funds to the
bonding company as necessary to bring said performance and/or franchise bonds
back to the applicable principal, where it shall continue to be maintained. The
performance and franchise bonds required hereunder shall contain the following
endorsements: "It is hereby understood and agreed that this bond may not be
reduced, altered or canceled by franchisee or surety without 30 days written
notice, by certified mail, to the City of Audubon Park. Such termination or
cancellation shall have no effect on any liability incurred or accrued under
this bond prior to the effective date of such termination or cancellation."
      (6)   Immediately upon the effective date of the resolution granting a
franchise under this chapter, franchisee shall file with the city the following
proof of liability insurance issued by a company(ies) authorized to do business
in the Commonwealth with an AM Best Rating of A- or better:
         (a)   General liability insurance, via an occurrence form, covering
bodily injury, including death, personal injury and property damage, and
including completed operations, contractual liability, independent contractors
protective liability and personal injury liability protection. The minimum
acceptable limit of liability amount is $5,000,000 per occurrence and aggregate
under a combined single limit, which may be satisfied by any combination of
primary and umbrella/excess insurance. This policy must include the city,
including its Mayor and City Council members, as additional insureds as
respects all operations of the insured franchisee. The city reserves the right
to make reasonable increases in the required amount of insurance coverage
herein at any time, subject to § 112.05(A)(2). Nothing herein is intended as a
limitation on the extent of any legal liability of the franchisee.
         (b)   Automobile liability, insuring all owned, non-owned and hired
motor vehicles. The minimum coverage liability limit is $3,000,000 combined
single limit for any one accident, which may be satisfied by any combination of
primary and umbrella/excess insurance. The limit of liability may be subject to
increase according to any applicable state or federal transportation
regulations.
         (c)   Workers' compensation (if applicable), insuring the employers'
obligations under KRS Ch. 342 at statutory limits.
      (7)   Franchisee shall maintain on file with the city a certificate of
insurance certifying the coverage required under this chapter, which
certificate shall be subject to the approval of the city as to the adequacy of
the certificate and of the insurance certified under the requirements of this
chapter. Such certificate shall be identified on its face by the name of
franchisee, and shall be submitted to the city, in accordance with the terms
and conditions of this chapter. Failure to maintain adequate insurance as
required under this chapter shall be deemed a breach of the franchise.
      (8)   The city reserves the right to make increases in the amount of
insurance coverage referred to in this section at any time, subject to §
112.05(A)(2).
      (9)   The following clause shall be added to franchisee's commercial
general liability policies: "The City of Audubon Park, its elected and
appointed officials, employees, agents and successors are added as an
"additional insured" as respects operations of the named insured performed
relative to the contract."
   (F)   Permits. Prior to performing any construction or installation work in
the public rights-of- way, franchisee shall apply to the city for any necessary
permit, and shall include descriptive information about the specific location
of any lines, facilities, boxes, or related equipment. All terms and conditions
of the permit application shall apply and be adhered to. In the case of an
emergency, the franchisee can perform critical work and at its soonest
opportunity seek the required permit and submit any applicable fees.
      (1)   Franchisee shall furnish detailed plans of the work to be done
within the rights-of-way and provide other such information as required by the
city.
      (2)   Franchisee shall coordinate any construction work within the
rights-of-way with the city and shall begin construction work only after
approval of the city unless such work is being performed for an emergency
situation.
      (3)   All permits issued by the city shall be conspicuously displayed at
all times at the indicated work site and shall be available for inspection by
city personnel.
   (G)   Notification. Franchisee shall notify the city, in writing, at least
15 days prior to non-emergency construction. Such written notification shall
contain the location of the construction, the starting date and the estimated
completion date.
   (H)   Standards. Any work required or performed pursuant to this chapter
shall be done in accordance with federal, state and local law, and the National
Electric Safety Code.
      (1)   In the event that franchisee leases space on the poles or in the
conduits of an electric or other utility, franchisee shall abide by the
construction and other requirements of that utility, and the granting of a
franchise by the city shall not be construed or interpreted in any way to
alleviate franchisee's responsibilities and obligations to the pole or conduit
owner.
      (2)   Franchisee, its contractors, sub-subcontractors and anyone directly
or indirectly employed by franchisee shall conduct such operations so as to
promote and preserve the public safety and general welfare of the citizens of
the city.
      (3)   All construction, installation or maintenance by franchisee shall
be completed with diligence and with respect to all interests and rights of the
public.
   (I)   Traffic. Franchisee's work in the rights-of-way shall be accomplished
with a minimum of disruption and interference to the free flow of vehicular and
pedestrian traffic on the rights-of-way or public land.
      (1)   Franchisee shall maintain lanes of vehicular traffic in each
direction at all times during construction, installation or maintenance
activity.
      (2)   Traffic control devices to protect and control pedestrian and
vehicular traffic in any construction, maintenance or installation areas may be
prescribed by the city in accordance with the Manual on Uniform Traffic Control
Devices.
   (J)   Delay. Improvements to city rights-of-way conducted by the city or its
contractors shall not be delayed by any franchisee work authorized by this
chapter.
   (K)   Special exceptions. The city may grant a special exception to the
requirements of this chapter if a franchisee, upon application, demonstrates
with written evidence that:
      (1)   The exception will not create any threat to the public health,
safety or welfare;
      (2)   The increased economic burden and the potential adverse impact on
franchisee's construction schedule resulting from the strict enforcement of the
requirement would actually or effectively prohibit the ability of franchisee to
provide communications service in the city;
      (3)   The requirement unreasonably discriminates against franchisee in
favor of another comparable communications service provider; and
      (4)   Any special exceptions shall be granted in a non-discriminatory
manner.
   (L)   Inspections. All construction, installation and operation of
franchisee's system in the rights-of-way are subject to inspection by the city.
   (M)   Repair of sunken pavement over excavation. In case the pavement or the
surface of the rights-of-way over any excavation should become depressed or
broken at any time within five years after the excavation has been completed
and before resurfacing of the rights-of-way, natural wear of the surface
excepted, franchisee shall, upon written notice from the city, immediately
proceed to inspect the depressed or broken area over the excavation to
ascertain the cause of the failure. Franchisee shall make repairs to the
installation or backfill and have the pavement restored as specified by the
city, within such time period as may be specified by the city, provided that
such time period shall not be less than ten calendar days. If the pavement is
not restored as specified by the city within the time period specified by the
city, and unless delayed by a strike or conditions beyond franchisee's control,
the city may cause the work to be done after giving franchisee 24 hours final
notice. The cost thereof, including, but not limited to, any inspection costs
and administrative overhead incurred by the city, shall be assessed against
franchisee.
   (N)   In the event that the use of any part of the system is discontinued
for any reason by any franchisee for a continuous period of 12 months, or in
the event such system or facility has been installed in rights-of-way without
complying with requirements of this chapter, or the rights granted hereunder
have been terminated, cancelled or have expired, the franchisee shall promptly
remove from the rights-of-way all such facilities of such system, other than
any which the city may permit to be abandoned in place. In the event of such
removal, the franchisee shall promptly restore the rights-of-way from which
such facilities have been removed to a condition satisfactory to the city. Any
facilities of a franchisee to be abandoned in place, shall be abandoned in such
manner as the city may prescribe. Upon a permanent abandonment of the
facilities of a franchisee in place, the franchisee shall submit to the city an
instrument to be approved by the city, transferring to the city the ownership
of such facilities.
   (O)   During any phase of construction, installation, maintenance, or repair
of the system, the franchisee shall use materials of good and durable quality.
All such work shall be performed in a safe, thorough and reliable manner and in
compliance with city ordinance and regulations, as amended.
(Ord. 4, Series 2024, passed 11-18-2024)
§ 112.04 MISCELLANEOUS.
   (A)   Administration of franchise. The city shall be responsible for the
continued administration of this chapter and any franchises granted hereunder.
   (B)   Non-enforcement by the city. A franchisee shall not be relieved of its
obligation to comply with any of the provisions of this chapter or its
applicable franchise by reason of any failure of the city to enforce prompt
compliance.
   (C)   Publication of notices. A franchisee shall be responsible for all
costs of publication that may be required with respect to its franchise or any
amendments or renewals thereto.
(Ord. 4, Series 2024, passed 11-18-2024)
§ 112.05 TRANSITIONAL PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Existing franchises.
      (1)   Franchises previously granted shall be deemed to continue through
their current expiration date, incorporating this chapter, and they shall be
automatically deemed to have complied with all application and qualification
requirements hereunder, unless, within 60 days of passage of this chapter, a
franchisee indicates in writing it does not accept this chapter as part of its
franchise. Upon such notice of nonacceptance, said franchisee and the city may
renegotiate or terminate the franchisee's franchise pursuant to all local,
state and federal law.
      (2)   Further amendments of this chapter shall be subject to §
112.01(D) and deemed accepted by a franchisee unless, within 60 days of
receiving written notice of such further amendments from the city, a franchisee
indicates in writing it does not accept the amendments as part of its
franchise. Upon such notice of nonacceptance, said franchisee and the city may
renegotiate or terminate the franchisee's franchise pursuant to all local,
state and federal law.
   (B)   Transitional provisions to be narrowly interpreted. It is the intent
of the city to apply the provisions of this chapter to all owners or operators
of communications systems with facilities, including local exchange carriers,
that now occupy or may in the future occupy rights-of-way, except to the extent
federal or state law prevents the city from doing so.
(Ord. 4, Series 2024, passed 11-18-2024)
§ 112.06 FRANCHISEES PROVIDING COMMUNICATIONS SERVICE TO CUSTOMERS.
   All franchisees providing communications service to customers shall to the
greatest extent applicable:
   (A)   At all times comply, at a minimum, with the FCC requirements for
emergency alert system applicable to their communications services.
   (B)   Have a publicly listed telephone number.
   (C)   Employ an operator or maintain a telephone answering device 24 hours
per day, each day of the year to receive customer complaints.
   (D)   Upon customer's termination of the communications services, permit
customers to return any equipment that franchisee requires to be returned upon
such termination at no expense (other than incidental costs incurred by the
customer in returning such equipment, such as transportation to a franchisee
location) and advise customers of this option when customers inquire about
returning equipment. These expenses do not include the cost for use of the
equipment before termination of the communications services.
   (E)   Shall indemnify the city, pursuant to §
112.01(F), against any alleged infringement of patent or copyright or any other
legal infringement in the transmission of materials through the system, except
to the extent any infringement arises from or is caused by the city's or
another person's use of the system. Nothing herein is intended as a limitation
on the extent of any legal liability of the franchisee.
(Ord. 4, Series 2024, passed 11-18-2024)
§ 112.07 PRIVATE COMMUNICATIONS FACILITIES.
   (A)   Application for license. A person wishing to erect, install, maintain,
operate, repair, replace, remove or restore a private communications system in
the rights-of-way must obtain a license therefore from the city. Such license
shall only authorize placement of the private communications system in a
specific portion of the rights-of-way for a limited period of time and for a
specific purpose in connection with the person's business and shall not permit
the use of the private communications system to provide communications service
to any other person or to the public. Such person shall submit an application
to the city on such form as may be developed by the city, accompanied by such
application fee as may be determined by the city.
   (B)   Conditions of license. Any license shall be subject to such conditions
as the city may from time to time establish, shall be expressly subordinate to
the use of the rights-of-way by the city and franchisees, and shall otherwise
conform to the requirements of this chapter.
   (C)   Compensation. A private communications system owner shall pay a fee
established by the city from time to time to reflect the fair market value of
the rights-of-way used.
(Ord. 4, Series 2024, passed 11-18-2024)
§ 112.08 LIABILITIES AND PENALTIES.
   Except as expressly stated in this chapter, the express or implied repeal or
amendment of the ordinances replaced by this chapter or any other ordinance or
part thereof shall not affect any liabilities accrued, penalties incurred or
proceedings begun prior to the effective date of this chapter. Those
liabilities and penalties are continued, and penalties shall be imposed and
enforced under the repealed or amended ordinance as if this chapter had not
been adopted.
(Ord. 4, Series 2024, passed 11-18-2024)
§ 112.09 REMEDIES NOT EXCLUSIVE.
   The rights and remedies of the city and the franchisee as set forth in their
franchise, or in this chapter, shall be in addition to and not in limitation
of, any other rights and remedies provided by law or in equity.
(Ord. 4, Series 2024, passed 11-18-2024)
§ 112.10 REVIEW, TERMINATION, AND CANCELLATION.
   (A)   To provide for technological changes in the state of the art of
communications services, to facilitate renewal procedures, and to achieve
continuing, advanced, modern systems for the city, the franchisee shall comply
with the following review provisions:
      (1)   The city may hold review sessions which shall be open to the public
and notice shall be given by advertisement in a newspaper of general
circulation at least one week before each session.
      (2)   Either the city or the franchisee may select additional topics for
discussion at any regular or special review session.
      (3)   Any topic proposed for discussion at any regular or special review
session by a resident of the city and supported by a petition bearing the
signature of 30 city residents shall be included in the list of topics for
discussion.
   (B)   Termination.
      (1)   The city may terminate any franchise in accordance herewith in the
event of the violation of any material provision hereof or of any rule or
regulation promulgated pursuant here to or of any applicable federal, state, or
local law, or the breach or other failure, refusal or neglect by the franchisee
to perform its obligations under the material terms and conditions of this
chapter or of any ordinance or agreement awarding a franchise in accordance
herewith, except when such violation, breach, failure, refusal or neglect is
caused by any of the following:
         (a)   Act of God;
         (b)   Riot, insurrection, civil disturbance, sabotage or vandalism,
tampering or interference, act of public enemy, public health emergency,
accident, fire, flood, strike, unavailability of materials or equipment, war or
act or war, all of which are beyond the control of the franchisee; or
         (c)   An emergency declared by the President of the United States of
America, the Governor of the Commonwealth of Kentucky or the Mayor.
      (2)   In the event that the city determines that the franchisee has
violated any material provision of this chapter, any rule or regulation
promulgated pursuant hereto, any applicable federal, state or local law, or any
material term of an agreement or ordinance awarding a franchise, the city shall
make a written demand on the franchisee that it comply with the law or said
agreement or ordinance. The written demand shall set forth the exact nature of
the noncompliance. The franchisee shall have 60 days from such notice to either
object in writing and to state its reasons for such objections and provide any
explanation or to cure the alleged noncompliance. If the city has not received
a satisfactory response from franchisee, or the violation, breach, failure,
refusal or neglect is not remedied to the satisfaction of the city within 60
days following such demand, the city shall determine whether or not, in its
sole discretion, any violation, breach, failure, refusal, or neglect by the
franchisee was excusable or inexcusable as provided division (B)(1).
         (a)   If the city determines such violation, breach, failure, refusal
or neglect by the franchisee was excusable as provided in division (B)(1), the
city shall direct the franchisee to correct or remedy the same within such
additional time, in such manner and upon such terms and conditions as are just
and reasonable and as the city may direct.
         (b)   If the city determines such violation, breach, failure, refusal,
or neglect by the franchisee was inexcusable, then City Council, by ordinance,
may seek to revoke the franchisee's franchise at a public hearing, and the City
Council may provide a time period for the franchisee to become compliant. If
the city seeks to revoke franchisee's franchise, it shall provide franchisee
with at least 20 days written notice prior to conducting a hearing. The hearing
shall be on the record and transcribed, if franchisee so elects and at
franchisee's cost, and shall provide franchisee full due process rights,
including the right to state its position on the matter, present evidence, and
question witnesses. Franchisee may appeal any decision made by the city after
the hearing to an appropriate court. Nothing in this chapter, including the
provisions set forth in this section, shall prevent franchisee from filing at
any time a legal action in any permissible court or tribunal seeking a
declaration or enforcement of franchisee's rights or obligations under the
franchise, this chapter, or applicable law. The franchisee may continue to
operate the system until all avenues and procedures of judicial review have
been fully and finally exhausted.
      (3)   If the city declares a breach pursuant to division (B)(2)(b), and
the franchisee either does not challenge the city's decision or city's decision
is affirmed in a final, non-appealable court order, the city may pursue any
remedies available to it pursuant to this chapter, the franchise, or any other
remedy, legal or equitable, available to the city.
   (C)   In the event that the franchise is terminated, the franchisee shall
follow the procedure in §
112.03(N).
(Ord. 4, Series 2024, passed 11-18-2024)
§ 112.11 FORECLOSURE-RECEIVERSHIP.
   (A)   Upon the foreclosure or other judicial sale of all or a substantial
part of the system, or upon the termination of any lease covering all or a
substantial part of the system, the franchisee shall notify the city of such
foreclosure. Franchisee's notification shall be treated as a notification that
a change in control of the franchisee has taken place, and the provisions of
this chapter governing the consent of the city to such change in control of the
franchisee shall apply.
   (B)   The city shall have the right to cancel the franchise 120 days after
the appointment of a receiver, or trustee, to take over and conduct the
business of the franchisee, whether in receivership, reorganization,
bankruptcy, or other action or proceeding, unless such receivership or
trusteeship shall have been vacated prior to the expiration of said 120 days,
or unless:
      (1)   Within 120 days after his or her election of appointment, the
receiver or trustee shall have fully complied with all of the provisions of
this chapter and the agreement and ordinance awarding a franchise hereunder,
and remedied all defaults thereunder; and
      (2)   Such receiver or trustee, within said 120 days shall have executed
an agreement, duly approved by the court having jurisdiction over same, whereby
such receiver or trustee assumes and agrees to be bound by each and every
provision of this chapter and the agreement and ordinance awarding a franchise
hereunder.
(Ord. 4, Series 2024, passed 11-18-2024)
§ 112.12 REPORTS.
   Upon the city's request, the franchisee shall submit a written report to the
city, including, but not limited to, the following information:
   (A)   A summary of the previous year's or, in the case of the initial
reporting year, the initial year's activities in development of the system,
including, but not limited to, communications service begun or discontinued.
   (B)   If the city exercises its constitutional right to collect franchise
fees, a statement of revenues.
   (C)   A list of officers and members of the Board of Directors of the
franchisee, and its parent, subsidiary, or affiliate corporations, if any.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful for the franchisee to refuse, fail or neglect to
file the reports required under this chapter. The refusal, failure, or neglect
of the franchisee to file any of the reports required under this chapter or as
the city may direct, shall be deemed a violation of this chapter and shall
subject the franchisee to the provisions of §
112.10, shall be deemed a material breach of any agreement or ordinance
awarding a franchise in accordance herewith, and shall subject the franchisee
to all penalties and remedies prescribed therein and to all other remedies,
legal or equitable, which are available to the city.
   (E)   Any material misrepresentation made knowingly by the franchisee in any
report required under this chapter shall subject the franchisee to the
provisions of §
112.10 and shall subject the franchisee to all penalties and remedies
prescribed therein and to all other remedies, legal or equitable, which are
available to the city.
(Ord. 4, Series 2024, passed 11-18-2024)
§ 112.13 BOOKS AND RECORDS OF THE FRANCHISE.
   (A)   Subject to §
112.02(N), the franchisee shall keep complete and accurate books of account and
records of its business and operations in connection with any franchise granted
under this chapter.
   (B)   Subject to §
112.02(N), upon request, the city shall have access to all books of account and
records of the franchisee for the purpose of auditing franchise fee payments
and of ascertaining the correctness of any and all reports and may examine its
officers and employees in respect thereto, provided that no audit shall occur
more often than once in any 12-month period of time.
   (C)   Any false entry in the books of account or record submitted to the
city, or false statements in reports to the city, as to material fact,
knowingly made by the franchisee, shall constitute a breach of a material
provision of this chapter and any franchise agreement or ordinance hereunder,
for which the remedies provided in this chapter may be invoked.
(Ord. 4, Series 2024, passed 11-18-2024)
§ 112.14 TIME OF ESSENCE.
   Whenever this chapter, or any ordinance or agreement awarding a franchise
hereunder, shall set forth any time for any act to be performed by or on behalf
of a franchisee, such time shall be deemed of the essence, and any failure of a
franchisee to perform within the time set forth shall constitute a material
breach of the terms of this chapter and shall entitle the city to invoke all
penalties and remedies prescribed in this chapter as well as all other legal or
equitable remedies available to the city.
(Ord. 4, Series 2024, passed 11-18-2024)
§ 112.15 EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY.
   (A)   Franchisees shall comply in all respects with the FCC's regulations
governing equal opportunity. Franchisees shall also comply with all other
applicable equal opportunity government regulations whether federal, state or
local.
   (B)   Franchisees shall afford equal opportunity in employment to all
qualified persons, and no person shall be discriminated against because of
race, color, religion, national origin, handicap, sex, or age.
(Ord. 4, Series 2024, passed 11-18-2024)
§ 112.16 AESTHETIC STANDARDS.
   Unless otherwise approved by the city in order to prevent an effective
prohibition of service in accordance with federal regulations, as applicable,
no person shall locate or maintain a facility, pole, tower, or support
structure, except in accordance with the following design standards:
   (A)   All large, above-ground facilities shall be located and designed so as
to minimize visual impact on surrounding properties and from rights-of-way.
   (B)   All new or replacement poles, towers, or support structures placed in
the right-of-way shall be the same color, shape, material, and general height
as those existing poles, towers or support structures adjacent to the location
of the new or replacement pole, tower, or support structure.
   (C)   All coaxial, fiber-optic, or other cabling and wires to be attached to
a new or replaced, tower, pole or support structure placed in the right-of-way
shall be contained inside such new or replacement tower, pole, or support
structure to the extent consistent with industry standards. On existing poles,
towers, or support structures, or new wooden poles, where it is impossible or
inconsistent with industry standards to place such wiring inside the pole,
tower or support structure, all coaxial, fiber-optic, or other cabling and
wires shall, to the extent technically and commercially feasible, be flush-
mounted and covered with a metal, plastic, or similar material matching the
color of the pole, tower or support structure.
   (D)   No tower shall be placed in the right-of-way within 250 feet on the
same street of an existing tower. Replacing an existing tower with a tower, or
a lighted pole with another lighted pole housing wireless facilities, in the
same location shall not violate this provision.
   (E)   All new towers, support structures and poles should be located on the
same side of the street as existing towers, poles, or support structures.
However, this does not preclude an applicant from locating its wireless
facilities on existing lighted poles under a decommissioning agreement in which
the applicant takes ownership of the lighted pole.
   (F)   The centerline of any new pole, support structure or tower shall be
aligned with the centerline of adjacent poles or trees, unless the new
structure's height conflicts with overhead power utility lines. Replacing an
existing pole, support structure, or tower with another pole, support
structure, or tower in the same location shall not violate this division.
   (G)   All new poles, towers, support structures or other large, above-ground
facility proposed to be fronting a dwelling shall be placed on property lines,
unless it would obstruct sight distance at driveways or other accesses to
roadways. In those instances where placement of a new pole, support structure,
tower, or other large, above-ground facility on the property line would
obstruct sight distance, the pole, support structure or tower, or large, above-
ground facility shall be placed in such a location as to prevent the
obstruction of sight distance at driveways or other accesses to roadways.
Replacing an existing pole, support structure, tower or facility with a pole,
support structure, tower, or facility in the same location shall not violate
this division.
   (H)   New poles, support structures, towers or other large, above-ground
facilities shall not be placed in front of store front windows, walkways,
entrances or exits, or in such a way that would impede deliveries. Replacing an
existing pole, support structure, tower or facility with a pole, support
structure, tower or facility in the same location shall not violate this
division.
   (I)   No new poles, support structures or towers shall be placed in front of
driveways, entrances, or walkways. Replacing an existing pole, support
structure, or tower with a pole, support structure, or tower in the same
location shall not violate this division.
   (J)   No applicant shall locate or maintain a pole, support structure,
tower, or equipment associated with a wireless facility, as to interfere with
the health of a tree.
   (K)   In areas where the undergrounding of utilities has occurred, but
lighted poles are present, the applicant shall locate its wireless facilities
on existing lighted poles or seek to decommission the lighted pole to replace
it with a lighted pole to house its wireless facilities.
   (L)   If the applicant elects to decommission an existing lighted pole in
order to install a wireless facility in its location, the applicant shall
comply with this chapter, including these aesthetic standards, and any
decommissioning agreement between the applicant and the city or its equivalent.
   (M)   In those locations where the undergrounding of all utilities has
occurred, all new facilities shall be placed underground, provided that the
facilities to be placed underground shall not include any traditionally ground-
mounted appurtenances such as taps, line extenders, system passive devices
(splitters, directional couplers), nodes, amplifiers, power supplies, and
pedestals.
   (N)   No equipment associated with any facility shall impede, obstruct, or
hinder ADA access, or pedestrian or vehicular access, or block driveways,
entrances, or walkways.
   (O)   To protect the health and safety of the public from the harms of noise
pollution, all facilities shall have a low noise profile.
   (P)   Within 21 calendar days from the date the operator receives notice
thereof, operator shall remove all graffiti on any of its facilities located in
the right-of-way.
   (Q)   All facilities, poles, towers, and support structures shall comply
with such additional design standards adopted by the city pursuant to §
112.01(D).
   (R)   All poles, towers, support structures, and other lines and equipment
installed or erected by a franchisee under this chapter shall be located so as
to minimize any interference with the proper use of the right-of-way with the
rights and reasonable convenience of property owners whose property adjoins or
abuts any affected right-of-way. Subject to applicable codes, overhead drops
shall be as close as possible to other utility drops in order to concentrate
the drops in as small an area as possible to minimize visual clutter and
interference with the use of private property.
(Ord. 4, Series 2024, passed 11-18-2024)
§ 112.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to establish, operate or to carry
on the business of distributing to any persons in the city, any communications
service by means of a system in the rights-of-way unless a franchise therefore
has first been obtained from the city, and unless such franchise is in full
force and effect. The penalty for violation of this division (A) shall be $250
per day or part thereof that the violation continues.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to own, erect, install, maintain,
operate, repair, replace, remove or restore within any public street in the
city, equipment or facilities for distributing any communications service
through a system, unless a franchise authorizing such use of such rights-of-way
has first been obtained from the city, and unless such franchise is in full
force and effect. The penalty for violation of this division (B) shall be $250
per day or part thereof that the violation continues.
(Ord. 4, Series 2024, passed 11-18-2024)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC ORDER
CHAPTER 130: OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC ORDER
Section
   
130.01   Operating a vehicle under the influence; presumptions concerning
intoxicants
§ 130.01 OPERATING A VEHICLE UNDER THE INFLUENCE; PRESUMPTIONS CONCERNING
INTOXICANTS.
   The Kentucky Motor Vehicle Code, as contained in Title XVI of the Kentucky
Revised Statutes, is adopted by reference as if fully set forth in this code of
ordinances.
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   BUILDING AND HOUSING REGULATIONS; LOT
         SUBDIVISION
      
151.   NATIONAL HISTORIC DISTRICT
      
152.   SOLAR PANELS
CHAPTER 150: BUILDING AND HOUSING REGULATIONS; LOT SUBDIVISION
Section
General Provisions
   
150.001   Adoption of state codes; enforcement agents
   
150.002   Application
   
150.003   Appeals
Administration and Scope
   
150.020   Officials
   
150.021   Specific duties of Building Director
   
150.022   Variances
Permits
   
150.035   Permits generally
   
150.036   Application for permit
   
150.037   Permits provided
   
150.038   Issuance of permit
   
150.039   Responsibilities of permit applicant
   
150.040   Inspections
   
150.041   Completion of project
Minimum Building Standards and Regulations
   
150.055   Character of building
   
150.056   Location of buildings
Housing Regulations
   
150.070   Scope of subchapter
   
150.071   Prohibited conditions; external
   
150.072   External maintenance and repair
   
150.073   Responsibilities of owner or landlord
   
150.074   Responsibilities of occupants
   
150.075   Vacant dwellings; procedure for securing
Swimming Pools, Hot Tubs, Whirlpools, and Spas
   
150.090   Generally
   
150.091   Permit required
   
150.092   Permit application
   
150.093   Issuance of permit
   
150.094   Permit fee
   
150.095   Fences
Lot Subdivision
   
150.110   Lot subdivision
 
   
150.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 150.001 ADOPTION OF STATE CODES; ENFORCEMENT AGENTS.
   (A)   The Kentucky Building Code, as contained in Title 815, Chapter 7 of
the Kentucky Administrative Regulations; the Kentucky Residential Code, as
contained in Title 815, Chapter 7 of the Administrative Regulations; the
Kentucky Plumbing Code, as contained in Title 815 , Chapter 20 of the Kentucky
Administrative Regulations; the Kentucky Standards of Safety, as contained in
Title 815, Chapter 10 of the Kentucky Administrative Regulations, together with
any amendments, are hereby adopted by reference as if fully set forth in this
code of ordinances. Copies of the above codes and any amendments thereto shall
be placed on file in the office of the City Clerk where they shall be available
for inspection during normal business hours.
   (B)   The Chief Building Inspector for Metro Louisville shall be designated
as the local enforcement agent for the Kentucky Building Code and Residential
Code.
   (C)   The Chief Building Inspector for Metro Louisville and all other
designated officers, agents and employees of the city are hereby charged with
the enforcement of the provisions of the Standards of Safety.
Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.002 APPLICATION.
   The application of the Kentucky Building Code and Kentucky Residential Code
shall be extended to all single-family dwellings in the city which are to be
constructed or remodeled.
§ 150.003 APPEALS.
   Appeals from decisions made by the Building Inspector under this chapter may
be taken to the State Board of Housing, Buildings and Construction unless and/
or until a local board of housing appeals, as set forth in KRS Chapter 198B, is
established to hear the appeals.
Statutory reference:
   Appeals procedure, see KRS 198B.070
ADMINISTRATION AND SCOPE
§ 150.020 OFFICIALS.
   (A)   Appointment of Director. The Mayor may appoint a resident of the city
to the position of Director of Building which appointment may be terminated at
will by the Mayor. (Every effort should be made to appoint individuals who are
graduates of accredited schools of architecture or engineering or who have had
experience with building or construction work.)
   (B)   Duties. The Director of Building is hereby authorized and directed to
enforce all provisions of this subchapter as herein provided.
   (C)   Deputies. The Director of Building, with the approval of the Mayor,
may designate deputies who shall exercise during the absence or disability of
the Director by whom they were appointed all powers of said Director.
   (D)   Inspectors. The Director of Building, with the approval of the Mayor,
may appoint inspectors and assistants to help carry out the provisions of this
subchapter for which they are directly responsible. No person shall be
appointed as an inspector who has not been found by the legislative body to
have some experience as an architect, engineer, builder, or in some other phase
of construction work.
   (E)   Right of entry. Upon the presentation of the proper credentials the
Director of Building or his or her duly-authorized representatives, he or she
may enter at reasonable times any building, structure, or premises within the
city to perform any and all duties imposed upon him or her by this subchapter.
   (F)   Liability. Any person charged with the enforcement of this subchapter,
acting in good faith and without malice for the city in the discharge of his or
her duties, shall not thereby render himself or herself personally liable and
he or she is hereby relieved from all personal liability for any damage that
may accrue to persons or property as a result of any act required or by reason
of any act or omission performed by him or her in the enforcement of any
provisions of this subchapter, and shall have the right to be defended by the
City Attorney until final determination of any proceedings pending against him
or her.
(1996 Code, § 15-2.02)
§ 150.021 SPECIFIC DUTIES OF BUILDING DIRECTOR.
   The Director of Building is hereby authorized and directed to enforce all
provisions of this subchapter; to review plans and specifications; to recommend
to the Mayor or his or her designee the issuance of denial of building permits
and certificates; to conduct inspections; to recommend to the legislative body
the issuance of rules and regulations consistent with this subchapter; to
maintain records and make reports; and to perform such other services as may be
necessary to execute the provisions of this subchapter and be consistent
therewith.
(1996 Code, § 15-2.03)
§ 150.022 VARIANCES.
   (A)   General.
      (1)   Any party in interest may request that the legislative body grant a
variance to the provisions of this subchapter when the legislative body finds
that the provisions of the code impose undue and unwarranted hardships or
injustices upon the party requesting such variance and that the granting of the
variance will most nearly accomplish and not defeat the purpose and intent of
this subchapter, or the county and planning and zoning regulations.
      (2)   In which case, the variance will have to be granted by the County
Planning and Zoning Commission and approved by the legislative body.
   (B)   Procedure.
      (1)   Upon receipt of a request for the granting of a variance to this
subchapter, the legislative body shall, at its next regularly scheduled
meeting, following receipt of the request, establish a time and place for a
hearing to be held on the request. The parties requesting the variance shall
give ten days’ notice to the hearing by registered mail, return receipt
requested, to the others of all property adjacent to the area for which the
variance is being requested.
      (2)   The legislative body shall, at the time the date of the hearing is
established, determine the meaning of the word “adjacent” so as to give
reasonable notice to all parties who may reasonably be affected by the
variance.
   (C)   Hearing.
      (1)   During the course of the hearing, the legislative body shall
require proof that a good faith effort has been made to notify those parties,
as determined by said body, at the time the hearing was scheduled to have an
interest in the property adjacent to that property for which the variance is
being requested.
      (2)   The party requesting the variance shall make a presentation to the
legislative body as to why the section of this subchapter from which it is
requesting a variance causes undue and unwarranted hardship or injustices to
it, and as to why the granting of the variance will not defeat the purpose and
intent of this subchapter.
      (3)   (a)   All parties in interest will be given the opportunity to
question the applicant and to present information both in support of or against
the granting of the variance.
         (b)   The legislative body may require submission of additional
evidence of proof to substantiate the position of the applicant, and may
require such additional data and tests which, in the opinion of the legislative
body, is necessary for adequate consideration of the request.
         (c)   The legislative body may schedule additional hearings, if in
said body’s opinion, they are necessary for adequate consideration of the
request.
   (D)   Decision. The legislative body shall vote at the end of the hearing,
and if a majority of the whole body votes in favor of such variance, the
variance is granted.
(1996 Code, § 15-2.05)
PERMITS
§ 150.035 PERMITS GENERALLY.
   (A)   No persons shall erect construct, enlarge, alter, repair, or move a
building or make, install, alter, or repair improvements thereto within the
city without first making application and obtaining a permit therefor from both
the City of Audubon Park and Jefferson County Metro Louisville.
   (B)   Ordinary upkeep and maintenance and minor repairs and alterations
involving no change in character or use may be made to a building without
filing an application or obtaining a permit; provided, such repairs shall not
violate any of the provisions of this subchapter.
(1996 Code, § 15-3.01) Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.036 APPLICATION FOR PERMIT.
   (A)   Form. An application for a permit, signed by the owner or his or her
authorized agent, shall be filed with the Mayor or his or her designee. Such
application shall be accompanied by the plans and specifications required by
this section and shall provide such information as may reasonably be required
by such body for an intelligent understanding of the proposed work.
   (B)   Registered architects and engineers. Design for the construction or
substantial remodeling of any building allowed by zoning regulation within the
corporate limits of the city, except as listed below, shall be entrusted only
to an architect or professional engineer acting within the scope of his or her
professional registration under KRS Ch. 322 and 323. Single-family dwellings,
and accessory buildings or structures thereto are hereby exempted from this
section.
   (C)   Plans and specifications.
      (1)   (a)   Two copies of plans and specifications shall accompany each
application. Plans shall be drawn to scale with sufficient clarity to indicate
the nature and extent of work proposed. Such plans and specifications together
shall contain information sufficient to indicate that the work proposed will
conform to the provisions of this subchapter and all relevant deed
restrictions, laws, ordinances, rules, and regulations.
         (b)   Such information shall be specific, and this subchapter shall
not be cited in whole or in part, nor shall the term “legal” or its equivalent
be used as a substitute for specific information. Each set of plans and
specifications shall give the address of the work, the name and the business
and home address of the owner, and the name and business address of the person
who prepared and is responsible for them.
         (c)   The legislative body shall require drawings showing the location
of the proposed building or structure and of every existing building or
structure on the site or lot along with a boundary line survey, if and where
necessary, prepared by a qualified surveyor, may also be required by the Mayor
or his or her designee.
      (2)   All plans submitted for approval shall contain a drawing or plat
showing the lot plan, the location of the building on the lot, accurate
dimensions of the building and lot, and such other information as may be
required by the legislative body.
   (D)   Time limitation. An application for a permit for any proposed work
shall be deemed to have been abandoned six months after the date of issuance;
provided, that for cause, one or more extensions of time, for periods not
exceeding 90 days each, may be allowed by the Mayor or his or her designee.
(1996 Code, § 15-3.02)
§ 150.037 PERMITS PROVIDED.
   (A)   Building permit. No building permit shall be issued until the
applicant shall have paid to the City Treasurer a permit fee of $100, which
shall be non-refundable.
   (B)   Overlay permit. No person shall begin any major structural change or
any ordinary repairs to any building or structure, or change or create any
surface parking lot, or clear a parcel or lot of trees or other major
vegetation, or change the appearance to signage, until the city has issued an
overlay permit, without cost, certifying that the person has complied with the
provisions of the city code, which also serves as the city’s overlay district
regulations. This prohibition shall not apply to emergency repairs that need to
be made to a building or structure.
(1996 Code, § 15-3.03) (Ord. 7 Series 1999, passed 9-20-1999; Ord. 2, Series
2016, passed 2-16-2016; Ord. 6, Series 2022, passed 8-15-2022)  Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.038 ISSUANCE OF PERMIT.
   (A)   Examination of application. The Director of Building shall examine or
cause to be examined each application for a permit and the plans,
specifications, and computations filed therewith and shall ascertain by such
examination whether the construction indicated and described will not adversely
affect the public safety, health, convenience, comfort, and general welfare of
the residents of the city; is in accordance with the requirements of this
subchapter and all other pertinent laws, ordinances, and deed restrictions; is
in uniformity and harmony of exterior design with existing structures on the
lot on which the work is proposed and surrounding lots; and is so located so as
to not adversely affect adjoining structures, uses, and operations.
   (B)   Action on application.
      (1)   Approval.
         (a)   The Director of Building shall act upon an application for a
permit without unreasonable or unnecessary delay. If such Director is satisfied
that the work described in an application for a permit and the plans and
specifications filed therewith will not adversely affect the public safety,
health, convenience, comfort, and general welfare of the residents of the city;
conforms to the requirements of this subchapter and all other pertinent laws,
ordinances, and deed restrictions; is in uniformity and harmony of exterior
design with existing structures on the lot on which the work is proposed and
surrounding lots; and is so located so as to not adversely affect adjoining
structures, uses, and operations, he or she shall so report to the Mayor or his
or her designee which, if it concurs in such Director’s report, shall issue a
building permit.
         (b)   When the building permit is issued, the Building Director shall
endorse in writing or stamp on both sets of plans and specifications
“approved”. Such approved plans and specifications shall not be changed,
modified, or altered in any manner affected by this subchapter, or other
pertinent laws, ordinances, and deed restrictions without authorization from
the Mayor or his or her designee, and all work shall be done in accordance with
the approved plans and specifications.
      (2)   Disapproval. If the application for a permit and the plans and
specifications filed there with, describe work which does not conform to the
requirements of this subchapter or other pertinent laws, ordinances, or deed
restrictions, or does not contain sufficient information, the Director of
Building shall so report to the legislative body, and, if the report of such
Director is concurred in by such legislative body, no permit shall be issued.
In such event. the pleas and specifications shall be returned to the applicant
with the refusal to issue such a permit. When requested by the applicant, such
refusal shall be in writing and shall contain the reasons therefor.
   (C)   Disposition of plans.
      (1)   One set of approved plans, specifications, and computations shall
be retained by the City Clerk and one set of the approved plans and
specifications shall be returned to the applicant. The latter set shall be
returned to the applicant.
      (2)   The latter set shall be kept at the site of work at all times
during which the work authorized thereby is in process and shall be open to
inspection at all reasonable times by the Director of Building or his or her
authorized representative.
   (D)   Conditions of the permit.
      (1)   A permit issued shall be construed to be a license to proceed with
the work and shall not be construed as authority to violate, cancel, alter, or
set aside any of the provisions of this subchapter, or any other pertinent
laws, ordinances, or deed restrictions, nor shall such issuance of a permit
prevent the Director of Building from thereafter requiring a correction of
errors in plans or in construction, or of violations of this subchapter or any
other applicable laws, ordinances, or deed restrictions.
      (2)   Any permit issued shall become invalid unless the work authorized
by it shall have been commenced within six months after issuance, or, if after
the work is commenced, such work is not completed within six months; provided,
that for cause, extensions of time may be allowed by re-applying for a permit.
   (E)   Posting of permit.
      (1)   No building operations requiring a permit shall be commended until
the permit holder or his or her authorized agent shall have posted a building
permit card, in a conspicuous place, near the front of the premises, protected
from the weather, and in such a position as to permit the Director of Building
to make entries thereon requesting inspection of the work.
      (2)   Such card shall be preserved and shall remain posted until
completion of the work.
(1996 Code, § 15-3.04) Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.039 RESPONSIBILITIES OF PERMIT APPLICANT.
   (A)   The applicant shall be responsible for seeing that adequate provisions
are made for drainage, both during the period of construction and after
construction is completed. He or she assumes the responsibility for assuring
the city that water will not be diverted from its natural flow to the detriment
of the land(s) surrounding the building or structure which he or she is or has
constructed, modified, or demolished.
   (B)   The applicant is charged with the responsibility of seeing that no
debris, waste, or rubbish from the project for which this permit is issued is
discarded or abandoned within the boundaries of the city, either during, upon,
or after the completion of the said project.
   (C)   At all times, it shall be the duty of the applicant to maintain the
streets in the vicinity of the permit location in a clean condition. The street
shall not be allowed to become cluttered or covered with dirt or debris as a
result of the construction activities, and the like.
(1996 Code, § 15-3.05)
§ 150.040 INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   Existing buildings. Before issuing a permit, the Mayor or his or her
designee shall examine or cause to be examined all buildings for which an
application has been received for a permit to enlarge, alter, repair, move, or
demolish the building.
   (B)   At site.
      (1)   The Director of Building shall inspect or cause to be inspected all
buildings and structures from time to time during the completion of the work
for which a permit was issued.
      (2)   He or she shall make a record of every such examination and
inspection and of all violations of this subchapter and of any other applicable
law, ordinance, and deed restriction.
   (C)   Procedure.
      (1)   The Director of Building shall make, or cause to be made, the
inspections called for by this section.
      (2)   He or she may accept reports of inspectors of recognized inspection
organizations; provided, that after investigation he or she is satisfied as to
their qualifications and reliability.
      (3)   No other approval called for by any provisions of the requirements
shall be based on such reports unless the same is in writing and certified by a
responsible officer of such organization.
(1996 Code, § 15-3.06)
§ 150.041 COMPLETION OF PROJECT.
   (A)   Upon the completion of a project and the satisfaction of all sections
of this subchapter and all other pertinent laws, ordinances, and deed
restrictions, those funds on deposit with the city under §
150.039, shall be refunded to the holder of the building permit.
   (B)   No building shall be occupied or used until final inspections
approval.
(1996 Code, § 15-3.07)
MINIMUM BUILDING STANDARDS AND REGULATIONS
§ 150.055 CHARACTER OF BUILDING.
   (A)   No building shall be constructed, enlarged, or altered within the city
unless the design and materials are in conformity and harmony of external
design with the existing structures on the lot in which such work is located
and on other lots in the surrounding area and is so located as not to adversely
affect surrounding structures, uses, and operations.
   (B)   No trailer, basement, tent, shack, garage, barn, or other outbuilding
erected in the city shall at any time be used as a residence, temporarily or
permanently.
   (C)   Garages will be limited to the lesser of either 25 feet or the height
of the house, and 1,200 square feet.
   (D)   Construction of concrete block garages is prohibited unless exterior
of garage has a brick, stone, or compatible siding veneer applied over concrete
block.
   (E)   Steel or aluminum fiberglass shall not be suitable for garage nor
outbuilding construction.
(1996 Code, § 15-4.01) (Ord 8 Series 1999, passed 1-18-2000; Ord. 6, Series
2019, passed 9-16-2019) Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.056 LOCATION OF BUILDINGS.
   (A)   (1)   The building setback area for all buildings and appurtenances
thereto, shall conform to the current restrictions of the county planning and
zoning regulations at that location.
      (2)   Porches extending beyond the front wall of the residence or in the
building line, shall not be enclosed in any manner 24 inches above the floor of
same.
   (B)   (1)   Garages and carports attached to a dwelling shall become a part
of the dwelling and shall have the same zoning restrictions as the dwelling.
      (2)   Unattached garages must be located 15 feet from the dwelling and
may be located within two feet of the side property line.
   (C)   No structure may be erected on any lot easement or side yard
requirements.
(1996 Code, § 15-4.02) Penalty, see §
150.999
HOUSING REGULATIONS
§ 150.070 SCOPE OF SUBCHAPTER.
   The provisions of this subchapter shall apply to all buildings or any
appurtenance connected or attached to such buildings located with the city
including, but not limited to, fences, driveways, private roads, sidewalks, and
swimming pools.
(1996 Code, § 15-5.01)
§ 150.071 PROHIBITED CONDITIONS; EXTERNAL.
   (A)   (1)   The exterior of every dwelling and dwelling unit within the
city, including all courts, yards, and conterminous property, shall be kept
clean and free from accumulation of dirt, film, rubbish, garbage, or similar
matter, and shall be kept free from vermin and rodent infestation.
      (2)   The occupant or occupants shall have the responsibility for meeting
the obligation created in this division (A) with respect to all exterior areas
within his, her, or their exclusive control.
   (B)   (1)   All dwellings, fences, gates, and outbuildings or other
structures in a dilapidated or unsafe condition shall be removed or repaired.
      (2)   All sheds and auxiliary structures attached to dwellings which
create blind rooms or which overcrowd the land shall be removed.
      (3)   All yard structures, fences, and rubbish which obstruct light and
air, harbor rats and vermin, or create an undesirable environment shall be
removed.
      (4)   All courts, yards, and conterminous property around every dwelling
or dwelling unit shall be properly graded and drained to keep surface water
from draining into or beneath the dwelling or dwelling unit; water shall not be
allowed to stand in darnels pools anywhere about the premises.
(1996 Code, § 15-5.03) Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.072 EXTERNAL MAINTENANCE AND REPAIR.
   (A)   External maintenance.
      (1)   All foundations, exterior walls, floors, and roofs of every
dwelling within the city shall be free of holes, large cracks, and any loose
and deteriorated material, and shall be maintained so as to be weather-tight
and rodent-proof.
      (2)   All exterior walls, woodwork, and exposed metal portions of every
dwelling that are inadequately protected against the weather due to lack of
paint, or other approved protective coating, shall be painted or otherwise
protected against decay, corrosion, or deterioration.
   (B)   Gutters and downspouts.
      (1)   All roofs of every dwelling shall be equipped with gutters and
downspouts connected to an approved sewer. If there is no approved sewer for
downspout connections, the stormwater shall be disposed of on the property, in
such manner as to not to flow onto adjoining property.
      (2)   All gutters, downspouts, and connecting drains shall be kept free
of the accumulation of material which would tend to impede or obstruct the
normal therein.
(1996 Code, § 15-5.04)
§ 150.073 RESPONSIBILITIES OF OWNER OR LANDLORD.
   (A)   General obligations. Except as specifically provided in other sections
of this subchapter, all the obligations set forth in this subchapter are the
responsibility of the owner, regardless of whether the owner is also the
occupant of the property subject to this subchapter.
   (B)   Pest extermination. Every owner of a dwelling containing more than one
dwelling unit shall be responsible for the extermination of any insects, rats,
or other pests therein or on the premises when such infestation extends to
stairways, halls, basements, yards, or other common areas.
   (C)   Occupant’s responsibilities. Nothing is this section shall be
construed to eliminate the responsibility of an occupant, as provided in
divisions (A) and (B) above, unless such infestation extend to two or more
dwelling units within the building.
(1996 Code, § 15-5.05) Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.074 RESPONSIBILITIES OF OCCUPANTS.
   Every occupant of a dwelling within the city containing a single dwelling
unit shall be responsible for the extermination of any insects, rats, or other
pests therein or on the premises; and every occupant of a dwelling unit in
multiple dwellings shall be responsible for such extermination if his or her
dwelling unit is the only one infested.
(1996 Code, § 15-5.06) Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.075 VACANT DWELLINGS; PROCEDURE FOR SECURING.
   (A)   (1)   When any dwelling or dwelling unit within the city becomes
vacant and unoccupied, the owner thereof shall immediately cause it to be
securely locked to prevent the entrance therein of unauthorized persons, and
the owner shall keep such structure securely locked until it is again let for
occupancy.
      (2)   If the dwelling or dwelling unit thereafter becomes open so that
any unauthorized person may enter, the owner shall cause the structure to be
closed at all outside offerings by securely covering all such openings with a
type of covering approved by the Executive Director of the Louisville Metro
Housing Authority, in such a manner as to preclude entrance by unauthorized
persons; provided, however, one door facing the street may remain uncovered so
long as it shall be securely locked to allow the owner or persons authorized by
him or her to enter.
   (B)   (1)   If any dwelling or dwelling unit is found to be vacant,
unoccupied, and open so that it may be entered freely by unauthorized persons,
the Mayor or his or her designee may order and direct the owner of such
structure to close it securely in the manner provided for in division (A) above
by delivering to said owner a written notice requiring him or her to securely
close said structure within five days of the date of such notice.
      (2)   (a)   The mailing of the notice to the owner at his or her last
known address shall be deemed notice to him or her.
         (b)   If the owner fails to complete the closing of any such dwelling
or dwelling unit within the five-day period, the Mayor or his or her designee,
may, without further notice to the owner, cause the dwelling unit to be
securely closed, and the cost of such closing shall be a lien against the
property.
   (C)   (1)   If the full amount of the cost of any closing carried out by the
Mayor or his or her designee pursuant to division (B) above is not paid to the
city by the owner within 30 days after the said closing is completed, the city
shall have prepared and cause to be signed and sworn to by the Mayor or his or
her designee an affidavit showing the cost and expense incurred for the work
and the date, place, or property on which said work was done.
      (2)   The affidavit shall be recorded in the office of the County Clerk
and shall constitute a lien upon the property, which shall remain in full force
and effect for the amount due as principal, plus accrued interest at the rate
of 6% per annum from the date of completion of the work, plus any court costs
necessary for the collection thereof, until full payment is made.
   (D)   All affidavits recorded in accordance with this section shall be prima
facie evidence that all legal formalities have been complied with and that all
the work involved has been properly and satisfactorily done; and this shall be
full notice to all persons concerned that the amount of the statement, plus
interest, constitutes a charge against the property designated and described
therein and that the same is due and collectible as provided by law.
(1996 Code, § 15-5.07) Penalty, see §
150.999
SWIMMING POOLS, HOT TUBS, WHIRLPOOLS, AND SPAS
§ 150.090 GENERALLY.
   Private above-ground hot tubs, whirlpools, and spas when installed on the
exterior of any lot shall have the same restrictions as below-ground swimming
pools and be limited to the water capacity of 400 gallons and be subject to §§
150.020 through
150.022 and §
50.16. (Section
150.094 applies.)
(1996 Code, § 15-6.06)
§ 150.091 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to construct or maintain a
swimming pool in the front or side yards of any lot within the city.
   (B)   There shall be allowed in the city only permanent inground swimming
pools, constructed in a rear yard and subject to the limitations hereinafter
set forth.
   (C)   No person shall construct or maintain a swimming pool as provided for
herein without first making application and obtaining a permit from the city.
   (D)   No swimming pool shall be constructed nor shall a permit therefor be
granted unless there is provided a drain in the pool, which drain shall be
connected underground directly to the sanitary sewer system.
   (E)   No inflatable domes, covers, or other raised structures over the pool
shall be allowed.
(1996 Code, § 15-6.01) Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.092 PERMIT APPLICATION.
   (A)   An application for a permit, signed by the owner or his or her
authorized agent, shall be filed with the Mayor or his or her designee. It
shall provide such information as may be reasonably required by such Director
for an intelligent understanding of the proposed work and its effect on the
surrounding properties.
   (B)   The information set forth in the written application shall contain at
least the following information:
      (1)   The kind of pool to be constructed;
      (2)   The overall dimensions of the length, width, and depth of the pool,
and a description of any proposed exterior lighting, including provisions for
the shielding of said lighting;
      (3)   A plat showing the pool’s location on the property in relation to
existing structures, easements, boundary lines, and existing or proposed
fences. Said plat shall also show the location of any proposed exterior
lighting;
      (4)   Any effect on adjacent properties which can be reasonably expected
to result from the construction of the pool;
      (5)   What provisions are to be made for supplying the pool with potable
water and for the drainage thereof;
      (6)   The substance which will be used as fill and the anticipated
disposition of any earth removed;
      (7)   The time when construction is expected to begin and the length of
time it will take before it is completed; and
      (8)   Submittal of fencing plan.
(1996 Code, § 15-6.02)
§ 150.093 ISSUANCE OF PERMIT.
   (A)   Other requirements. Any person requesting a permit must, in addition
to the city permit, obtain the necessary permits from the County Planning and
Zoning and the Louisville County and County Health Department.
   (B)   Examination of application. The Mayor or his or her designee shall
examine or cause to be examined each application for a swimming, and the
information furnished in connection therewith shall ascertain by such
examination that the construction of such pool will not adversely affect the
public safety, health, convenience, comfort, and general welfare of the city,
and will be in accordance with the requirements of this subchapter and all
other pertinent laws, ordinances, and deed restriction.
   (C)   Action of application.
      (1)   Approval. The Mayor or his or her designee shall act upon an
application for a swimming pool permit without unreasonable or unnecessary
delay. If such Director is satisfied that such pool as described in the
application and information furnished in connection therewith will not
adversely affect the public safety, health, convenience, comfort, and general
welfare of the residents of the city and conforms to the requirements of this
subchapter and all other pertinent laws, ordinances, and deed restrictions, he
or she shall so report to this legislative body which, if it concurs in such
Director’s report, shall issue a permit therefor.
      (2)   Disapproval.
         (a)   If the application for a swimming pool permit and the
information filed therewith describe work which does not conform to the
requirements of this subchapter or all other pertinent laws, ordinances, and
deed restrictions, or does not contain sufficient information, the Mayor or his
or her designee shall so report to the legislative body, and, if the report of
such Mayor or his or her designee is concurred in by the legislative body, no
permit shall be issued and the applicant shall be so notified.
         (b)   When requested by the applicant, such refusal shall be in
writing and shall contain the reasons therefor.
(1996 Code, § 15-6.03)
§ 150.094 PERMIT FEE.
   No swimming pool permit shall be issued until: the applicant shall have paid
to the City Clerk a permit fee of $50, the proposed work in compliance with
this subchapter has been completed, and a building permit has been issued.
(1996 Code, § 15-6.04)
§ 150.095 FENCES.
   All pool or pool areas within the city shall be enclosed by fence at least
42 inches in height. Any gate or other entry through said fence must be capable
of being latched.
(1996 Code, § 15-6.05)
LOT SUBDIVISION
§ 150.110 LOT SUBDIVISION.
   No lots or areas platted within the city and recorded in the office of the
County Clerk Court as of the date this section becomes effective shall be
subdivided, altered, or changed without the prior written approval of the Mayor
or his or her designee.
(1996 Code, § 7-6.01) Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.999 PENALTY.
   Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter constitutes a
civil offense, subject to a maximum civil fine of $150 if uncontested, and a
maximum civil fine of $300 if contested. Each day a violation occurs shall
constitute a separate offense. All past due civil fines are also subject to
monthly interest of 1.5%, court costs, and costs associated with collection.
CHAPTER 151: NATIONAL HISTORIC DISTRICT
Section
   
151.01   Establishment
   
151.02   Conformance to corporate boundaries
   
151.03   Distinctive characteristics
   
151.04   Administration and authority
   
151.05   Proposed development; review
   
151.06   Incorporation of standards, guidelines and criteria
§ 151.01 ESTABLISHMENT.
   Under the authority of KRS 82.660(1), an overlay district is hereby
established for the city, in order to provide for the preservation and
conservation of its historic, architectural, natural and cultural character and
integrity.
(Ord. 1, Series 2016, passed 2-16-2016)
§ 151.02 CONFORMANCE TO CORPORATE BOUNDARIES.
   The district will conform to the corporate boundaries of the city.
(Ord. 1, Series 2016, passed 2-16-2016)
§ 151.03 DISTINCTIVE CHARACTERISTICS.
   Distinctive characteristics of the district to be preserved and conserved
include, inter alia: its seclusion from the surrounding urban area; its
abundance of trees and green spaces, and accompanying invitation to outdoor
activities; its eclectic mix of period architecture; and the healthy
environment and wildlife habitat afforded by its urban forest and responsible
citizenry.
(Ord. 1, Series 2016, passed 2-16-2016)
§ 151.04 ADMINISTRATION AND AUTHORITY.
   Overlay regulations shall be promulgated and administered solely as city
ordinances; their administration is, therefore, the responsibility of the Code
Enforcement Board, operating as provided in this code of ordinances. The Board
shall establish a body of experts to assist in the review of design standards
and development proposals.
(Ord. 1, Series 2016, passed 2-16-2016)
§ 151.05 PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT; REVIEW.
   Proposed development within the district shall be reviewed as prescribed in
the city’s Building Code, providing for adequate notice, public hearings and
timely consideration of applications.
(Ord. 1, Series 2016, passed 2-16-2016)
§ 151.06 INCORPORATION OF STANDARDS, GUIDELINES AND CRITERIA.
   Standards, guidelines and criteria governing development within the district
to preserve, conserve and protect the historical, architectural, cultural,
aesthetic and other distinctive characteristics of the district are embodied in
the city code, whose provisions are incorporated by reference as overlay
regulations.
(Ord. 1, Series 2016, passed 2-16-2016)
CHAPTER 152: SOLAR PANELS
Section
   
152.01   Definitions
   
152.02   Permit required; compliance
 
   
152.99   Penalty
§ 152.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   GROUND-MOUNTED SES. A freestanding solar energy system that is not attached
to and is separate from any building on the same parcel on which the solar
energy system is located.
   SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEM (SES). A system (including solar collector surfaces and
ancillary solar equipment), either affixed to a permanent principal or
accessory building or functioning as a freestanding structure, that collects,
stores and distributes solar energy for heating or cooling, generating
electricity, or heating water. SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEMS include, but are not
limited to, photovoltaic (PV) power systems and solar thermal systems. SOLAR
PANEL SYSTEMS do not include individually powered solar lights such as garden
lights, landscape lights, accent lights, security lights, cameras or flood
lights.
   SOLAR PANEL SYSTEMS. A combination of equipment and/or controls,
accessories, inter- connecting means and terminal elements for the collection,
storage, and distribution of solar energy.
(Ord. 7, Series 2019, passed 9-16-2019)
§ 152.02 PERMIT REQUIRED; COMPLIANCE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to erect or maintain ground- or
roof-mounted solar panel systems without first obtaining a permit therefor from
the Mayor or his or her designee.
   (B)   No permit shall be issued until a plan of such device showing the
location, material, and type of construction is delivered to and approved by
the Mayor or his or her designee and such location thereof is in keeping with
and does not detract from the surrounding neighborhood, and is located so as
not to be installed on the primary residence’s roofline facing the street or
seen from the primary residence’s street address facade or primary elevation.
   (C)   Ground-mounted, personal-scale SES shall not be permitted.
   (D)   A building-mounted SES, and the installation and use thereof, shall
comply with the Building Code, the Electrical Code and any other applicable
state codes. Installation of a building-mounted SES shall not commence until
all necessary permits have been issued.
(Ord. 7, Series 2019, passed 9-16-2019) Penalty, see § 153.99
§ 152.99 PENALTY.
   Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter constitutes a
civil offense, subject to a maximum civil fine of $150 if uncontested, and a
maximum civil fine of $300 if contested. Each day a violation occurs shall
constitute a separate offense. All past due civil fines are also subject to
monthly interest of 1.5%, court costs, and costs associated with collection.
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   Table
      
I.   FRANCHISES
TABLE I: FRANCHISES
 
Ord. No. Date Passed  Description
                        Granting Spectrum a non-exclusive franchise for a term
- -      - -            of ten years to erect, install, and maintain a system
                        and provide communications services within the confines
                        of the city.
                       
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Kentucky Revised Statutes
References to 1996 Code
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO KENTUCKY REVISED STATUTES
KRS Cites Code Section
KRS Cites               Code Section
15.520                  31.15,
                        31.17
                        30.02,
61.800 through 61.850   31.39,
                        31.61
61.810                  32.080
61.870 et seq.          10.18,
                        112.01
61.872 to 61.884        32.025
Ch. 65                  32.003
65.8801 through 65.8839 31.35
65.8815(5)              31.39
82.082                  32.003
82.660(1)               151.01
83A.010(5)              10.02
83A.010(6)              10.02
83A.010(8)              10.02
83A.045(2)(b)           31.01
83A.060                 32.005
83A.060(11)             Adopting Ordinance
83A.065                 10.99
83A.080                 32.004
83A.090                 10.18
83A.085                 31.02
83A.130                 30.01
91A.010(8)              10.02
95.480                  31.02
97.030                  31.61
131.183                 111.03
136.600 et seq.         112.02
Ch. 198B                150.003
198B.070                150.003
Ch. 322                 150.036
Ch. 323                 150.036
Ch. 342                 112.03
446.010(1)              10.02
446.010(11)             10.02
446.010(12)             10.02
446.010(13)             10.02
446.010(14)             10.02
446.010(16)             10.02
446.010(17)             10.02
446.010(22)             10.02
446.010(24)             10.02
446.010(25)             10.02
446.010(26)             10.02
446.010(28)             10.02
446.010(29)             10.02
446.010(31)             10.02
446.010(34)             10.02
446.010(36)             10.02
446.010(40)             10.02
446.010(43)             10.02
446.010(44)             10.02
446.010(46)             10.02
446.010(52)             10.02
446.020(1)              10.03
446.020(2)              10.03
446.030                 10.02,
                        10.04
446.050                 10.05
446.060                 10.06
446.080(1)              10.03
446.080(3)              10.03
446.080(4)              10.03
446.090                 10.07
446.100                 10.08
446.140                 10.01
534.040(2)(c)           10.99
                        
 
 
REFERENCES TO 1996 CODE
1996 Code Code Section
1996 Code Code Section
1-1.01    10.02
3-2.01    11.01
3-3.05    30.03
3-4.04    31.03
3-5.01    31.15
3-5.02    31.16
3-5.03    31.17
3-5.04    31.18
3-5.05    31.19
3-5.06    31.20
3-5.07    31.21
3-5.08    31.22
5-2.08    70.03
5-4.02    70.04
5-4.03    70.05
5-6.01    71.01
5-6.02    71.02
5-6.03    71.03
5-6.04    71.04
5-6.05    Ch. 72, Schd. I
5-6.06    71.05
5-6.07    71.06
5-99.01   70.99,
          71.99
7-2.01    92.01
7-2.02    92.02
7-2.03    92.03
7-2.04    92.04
7-2.05    92.05
7-6.01    150.110
9-1.01    110.02
9-1.02    110.01
9-2.01    110.15
9-2.02    110.16,
          110.99
9-2.03    110.17,
          110.99
9-2.04    110.18
9-2.05    110.19
9-2.06    110.20
9-2.07    110.21
9-3.01    110.35
9-3.02    110.36
9-4.01    110.50
9-4.02    110.51
9-4.05    110.52
9-4.06    110.53
9-4.07    110.54,
          110.99
9-5.01    110.65
11-1.01   90.001
11-2.01   90.050
11-2.02   90.051
11-2.03   90.052
11-3.01   90.015
11-3.02   90.016
11-3.04   90.017
11-3.05   90.018
11-3.06   90.019
11-4.01   90.021
11-4.02   90.022
11-5.01   90.035,
          92.01
11-5.03   90.036,
          92.01
11-5.04   90.037
11-6.01   90.020
11-7.01   90.065
11-7.02   90.066
11-7.03   90.067
11-8.01   90.002
11-9.01   90.080
11-9.02   90.081
11-9.03   90.082
11-9.04   90.083
11-9.05   90.084
11-9.06   90.085
11-9.07   90.086
13-1.02   50.01
13-2.01   50.15
13-2.02   50.16
13-3.01   50.30
13-3.03   50.31
13-3.04   50.32
13-99.01  50.99
15-2.02   150.020
15-2.03   150.021
15-2.05   150.022
15-3.01   150.035
15-3.02   150.036
15-3.03   150.037
15-3.04   150.038
15-3.05   150.039
15-3.06   150.040
15-3.07   150.041
15-4.01   150.055
15-4.02   150.056
15-5.01   150.070
15-5.02   92.01
15-5.03   150.071
15-5.04   150.072
15-5.05   150.073
15-5.06   150.074
15-5.07   150.075
15-6.01   150.091
15-6.02   150.092
15-6.03   150.093
15-6.04   150.094
15-6.05   150.095
15-6.06   150.090
          
 
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No.          Date Passed Description
3 Series 1991     11-25-1991  110.16,
                              110.99
                              32.001—
                              32.005,
                              32.020—
                              32.025,
4                 12-19-1994  32.040—
                              32.045,
                              32.060,
                              32.075—
                              32.084,
                              32.999 
5 Series 1999     7-19-1999   71.04
7 Series 1999     9-20-1999   150.037
8 Series 1999     1-18-2000   150.55
                              90.035—
008, Series 2002  11-18-2002  90.038,
                              92.01 
                              31.35—
5, Series 2007    7-16-2007   31.48,
                              31.99
7, Series 2007    7-16-2007   10.99
0006, Series 2013 12-16-2013  90.003
5, Series 2014    9-15-2014   31.60,
                              31.61
6, Series 2014    9-15-2014   30.02
2, Series 2015    3-16-2015   111.01—
                              111.04
1, Series 2016    2-16-2016   151.01—
                              151.06
2, Series 2016    2-16-2016   150.037
5, Series 2019    9-16-2019   110.51
6, Series 2019    9-16-2019   150.055
7, Series 2019    9-16-2019   152.01,
                              152.02
8, Series 2019    9-16-2019   93.01—
                              93.99
5, Series 2020    9-8-2020    Adopting Ordinance
6, Series 2020    9-21-2020   92.01
1, Series 2021    3-29-2021   90.020
5, Series 2022    8-15-2022   150.037
6, Series 2022    9-19-2022   30.02
                              112.01—
4, Series 2024    11-18-2024  112.16,
                              112.99
- -               - -         T.S.O. I
                             
 
