BANCROFT, KENTUCKY
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2024 S-6 Supplement current through Ord. 1, 2024 Series passed 6-12-2024; and
State legislation current through KRS 2023
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street, Suite 310  
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
Tel: (800) 445-5588
Internet: http://www.amlegal.com
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
CHAPTER 10: RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
Section
   
10.01   Short titles
   
10.02   Definitions
   
10.03   Rules of construction
   
10.04   Computation of time
   
10.05   Majority may act for all; authorized agent
   
10.06   Writings and signatures
   
10.07   Severability
   
10.08   Revivor
   
10.09   Rights and liabilities accruing before repeal of ordinance
   
10.10   Construction of section references
   
10.11   Ordinances repealed
   
10.12   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.13   Ordinances saved
   
10.14   Amendments to code; amendatory language
   
10.15   Conflicting provisions
   
10.16   Reference to offices
   
10.17   Errors and omissions
   
10.18   Historical and statutory references
 
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01 SHORT TITLES.
   (A)   All ordinances of a permanent and general nature of the city as
revised, codified, rearranged, renumbered, and consolidated into component
codes, titles, chapters, and sections shall be known and designated as the City
of Bancroft Code, for which designation “codified ordinances” or “code” may be
substituted. Code, title, chapter, and section headings do not constitute any
part of the law as contained in the code.
(KRS 446.140)
   (B)   All references to codes, titles, chapters, and sections are to those
components of the code unless otherwise specified. Any component code may be
referred to and cited by its name, such as the “traffic code”. Sections may be
referred to and cited by the designation “§” followed by the number, such as “§
10.01”. Headings and captions used in this code other than the title, chapter,
and section numbers are employed for reference purposes only and shall not be
deemed a part of the text of any section.
(Prior Code, § 10.01)
§ 10.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this code, the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACTION. Includes all proceedings in any court of this state.
(KRS 446.010(1))
   AND. May be read OR, and OR may be read AND, if the sense requires it.
   ANIMAL. Includes every warm-blooded living creature except a human being.
(KRS 446.010(2))
   AVIS. The automated vehicle information system established and maintained by
the Transportation Cabinet to collect titling and registration information on
vehicles and boats and information on holders of motor vehicle operator’s
licenses and personal identification cards.
(KRS 446.010(55))
   CITY, MUNICIPAL CORPORATION, or MUNICIPALITY. When used in this code shall
denote the City of Bancroft irrespective of its population or legal
classification.
   COMMISSION. The City Commission.
(KRS 83A.010(3))
   COMPANY. May extend and be applied to any corporation, company, person,
partnership, joint stock company, or association.
(KRS 446.010(9))
   CORPORATION. May extend and be applied to any corporation, company,
partnership, joint stock company, or association.
(KRS 446.010(10))
   COUNTY. Jefferson County, Kentucky.
   CRUELTY. As applied to animals, includes every act or omission whereby
unjustifiable physical pain, suffering, or death is caused or permitted.
(KRS 446.010(12))
   DIRECTORS. When applied to corporations, includes managers or trustees.
(KRS 446.010(13))
   DOMESTIC. When applied to a corporation, partnership, business trust, or
limited liability company, means all those incorporated or formed by authority
of this state.
(KRS 446.010(14))
   DOMESTIC ANIMAL. Any animal converted to domestic habitat.
(KRS 446.010(15))
   EXECUTIVE AUTHORITY. The Commission.
(KRS 83A.010(6))
   FEDERAL. Refers to the United States.
(KRS 446.010(17))
   FOREIGN. When applied to a corporation, partnership, business trust, or
limited liability company, includes all those incorporated or formed by
authority of any other state.
(KRS 446.010(18))
   KEEPER or PROPRIETOR. Includes all persons, whether acting by themselves or
as a servant, agent, or employee.
   KRS. Kentucky Revised Statutes.
   LAND or REAL ESTATE. Includes lands, tenements, and hereditaments and all
rights thereto and interest therein, other than a chattel interest.
(KRS 446.010(23))
   LEGISLATIVE BODY. The City Commission.
(KRS 91A.010(8))
   LEGISLATIVE BODY MEMBER. A City Commissioner.
(KRS 83A.010(8))
   LIVESTOCK. Cattle, sheep, swine, goats, horses, alpacas, llamas, buffaloes
or any other animal  of the bovine, ovine, procine, caprine, equine or camelid
species.
(KRS 446.010(25))
   MAY. The act referred to is permissive.
(KRS 446.010(26))
   MONTH. Calendar month.
(KRS 446.010(27))
   MUNICIPALITY. The City of Bancroft, Kentucky.
   OATH. Includes affirmation in all cases in which an affirmation may be
substituted for an OATH. (KRS 446.010(28))
   PARTNERSHIP. Includes both general and limited PARTNERSHIPS.
(KRS 446.010(30))
   PEACE OFFICER. Includes sheriffs, constables granted police powers,
coroners, jailers, metropolitan and urban-county government correctional
officers, marshals, police officers, and other persons with similar authority
to make arrests.
(KRS 446.010(31))
   PERSON. May extend and be applied to bodies-politic and corporate,
societies, communities, the public generally, individuals, partnerships, joint
stock companies, and limited liability companies.
(KRS 446.010(33))
   PERSONAL PROPERTY. Includes all property except real.
   PREMISES. As applied to property, includes land and buildings.
   PROPERTY. Includes real, personal, mixed estates, and interests.
   PUBLIC AUTHORITY. Includes boards of education; the municipal, county,
state, or federal government, its officers or an agency thereof, or any duly-
authorized public official.
   PUBLIC PLACE. Includes any street, sidewalk, park, cemetery, school yard,
body of water or watercourse, public conveyance, or any other place for the
sale of merchandise, public accommodation, or amusement.
   REAL PROPERTY. Includes lands, tenements, and hereditaments.
   REGULAR ELECTION. The election in even-numbered years at which members of
Congress are elected, and the election in odd-numbered years at which state
officers are elected.
(KRS 446.010(37))
   SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory.
(KRS 446.010(39))
   SIDEWALK. That portion of the street between the curb line and the adjacent
property line intended for the use of pedestrians.
   STATE. The Commonwealth of Kentucky.
   STREET. Includes alleys, avenues, boulevards, lanes, roads, highways,
viaducts, and all other public thoroughfares within the city.
   SUBCHAPTER. A division of a chapter, designated in this code by a heading in
the chapter analysis and a capitalized heading in the body of the chapter,
setting apart a group of sections related by the subject matter of the heading.
Not all chapters have SUBCHAPTERS.
   SWORN. Includes affirmed in all cases in which an affirmation may be
substituted for an oath.
(KRS 446.010(43))
   TENANT or OCCUPANT. As applied to premises, includes any person holding a
written or oral lease, or who actually occupies the whole or any part of the
premises, alone or with others.
   VACANCY IN OFFICE. Exists when there is an unexpired part of a term of
office without a lawful incumbent therein, when the person elected or appointed
to an office fails to qualify according to law, or when there has been no
election to fill the office at the time appointed by law; it applies whether
the vacancy is occasioned by death, resignation, or removal from the state,
county, city, or district, or otherwise.
(KRS 446.010(46))
   VIOLATE. Includes failure to comply with.
(KRS 446.010(47))
   YEAR. Calendar year.
(KRS 446.010(49))
(Prior Code, § 10.02)
§ 10.03 RULES OF CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   Singular includes plural. A word importing the singular number only
may extend and be applied to several persons or things, as well as to one
person or thing, and a word importing the plural number only may extend and be
applied to one person or thing as well as to several persons or things.
(KRS 446.020(1))
   (B)   Masculine includes feminine. A word importing the masculine gender
only may extend and be applied to females as well as males.
(KRS 446.020(2))
   (C)   Liberal construction. All sections of this code shall be liberally
construed with a view to promote their objects and carry out the intent of City
Commission.
(KRS 446.080(1))
   (D)   Retroactivity. No ordinance shall be construed to be retroactive,
unless expressly so declared.
(KRS 446.080(3))
   (E)   Technical terms. All words and phrases shall be construed according to
the common and approved usage of language, but technical words and phrases, and
others as may have acquired a peculiar and appropriate meaning in the law,
shall be construed according to that meaning.
(KRS 446.080(4))
(Prior Code, § 10.03)
§ 10.04 COMPUTATION OF TIME.
   (A)   In computing any period of time prescribed or allowed by order of
court, or by any applicable ordinance or regulation, the day of the act, event,
or default after which the designated period of time begins to run is not to be
included. The last day of the period so computed is to be included, unless it
is a Saturday, a Sunday, a legal holiday, or a day on which the public office
in which a document is required to be filed is actually and legally closed, in
which event the period runs until the end of the next day which is not one of
the days just mentioned. When the period of time prescribed or allowed is less
than seven days, intermediate Saturdays, Sundays, and legal holidays shall be
excluded in the computation.
   (B)   When an ordinance, regulation, or order of court requires an act to be
done either a certain time before an event or a certain time before the day on
which an event occurs, the day of the event shall be excluded in computing the
time. If the day thereby computed on which or by which the act is required to
be done falls on a Saturday, Sunday, legal holiday, or a day on which the
public office in which the act is required to be completed is actually and
legally closed, the act may be done on the next day which is none of the days
just mentioned.
   (C)   If any proceeding is directed by law to take place, or any act is
directed to be done, on a particular day of a month and that day is Sunday, the
proceeding shall take place, or the act shall be done, on the next day that is
not a legal holiday.
(KRS 446.030)
   (D)   In all cases where the law requires any act to be done in a reasonable
time or reasonable notice to be given. REASONABLE TIME OR NOTICE shall mean the
time only as may be necessary for the prompt performance of the duty or
compliance with the notice.
(Prior Code, § 10.04)
§ 10.05 MAJORITY MAY ACT FOR ALL; AUTHORIZED AGENT.
   (A)   Words giving authority to three or more public officers or other
persons shall be construed as giving the authority to a majority of the
officers or other persons.
(KRS 446.050)
   (B)   When the law requires an act to be done which may by law as well be
done by an agent as by the principal, the requirement shall be construed to
include those acts when done by an authorized agent.
(Prior Code, § 10.05)
§ 10.06 WRITINGS AND SIGNATURES.
   (A)   When this code requires any writing to be signed by a party thereto,
it shall not be deemed to be signed unless the signature is subscribed at the
end or close of the writing.
   (B)   Every writing contemplated by this code shall be in the English
language.
(KRS 446.060) (Prior Code, § 10.06)
§ 10.07 SEVERABILITY.
   It shall be considered that it is the intent of City Commission in enacting
any ordinance, that if any part of the ordinance be held unconstitutional the
remaining parts shall remain in force, unless the ordinance provides otherwise,
or unless the remaining parts are so essentially and inseparably connected with
and dependent upon the unconstitutional part that it is apparent that City
Commission would not have enacted the remaining parts without the
unconstitutional part; or unless the remaining parts, standing alone, are
incomplete and incapable of being executed in accordance with the intent of
City Commission.
(KRS 446.090) (Prior Code, § 10.07)
§ 10.08 REVIVOR.
   (A)   A repealed ordinance without a delayed effective date is revived when
the ordinance that repealed it is repealed by another ordinance enacted at the
same meeting of City Commission.
   (B)   A repealed ordinance with a delayed effective date is revived by the
enactment of a repealer of the ordinance that repealed it at the same or any
subsequent meeting of City Commission as long as it takes effect prior to the
effective date of the original repealer.
   (C)   An amended ordinance without a delayed effective date remains
unchanged with respect to an amendment which is repealed at the same meeting of
City Commission which enacted the amendment.
   (D)   An amended ordinance with a delayed effective date remains unchanged
with respect to that amendment if the ordinance making the amendment is
repealed at the same or at a subsequent meeting of City Commission, as long as
the repealing ordinance takes effect prior to the effective date of the
original amendment.
   (E)   No other action of City Commission repealing a repealer or an
amendment shall have the effect of reviving the original language of the
repealer or amendment, as the case may be.
(KRS 446.100) (Prior Code, § 10.08)
§ 10.09 RIGHTS AND LIABILITIES ACCRUING BEFORE REPEAL OF ORDINANCE.
   No new ordinance shall be construed to repeal a former ordinance as to any
offense committed against a former ordinance, nor as to any act done, or
penalty, forfeiture, or punishment incurred, or any right accrued or claim
arising under the former ordinance, or in any way whatever to affect any
offense or act so committed or done, or any penalty, forfeiture, or punishment
so incurred, or any right accrued or claim arising before the new ordinance
takes effect, except that the proceedings thereafter had shall conform, so far
as practicable, to the laws in force at the time of the proceedings. If any
penalty, forfeiture, or punishment is mitigated by any provision of the new
ordinance, the provision may, by the consent of the party affected, be applied
to any judgment pronounced after the new ordinance takes effect.
(KRS 446.110) (Prior Code, § 10.09)
§ 10.10 CONSTRUCTION OF SECTION REFERENCES.
   (A)   Wherever in a penalty section reference is made to a violation of a
section or an inclusive group of sections, the reference shall be construed to
mean a violation of any provision of the section or sections included in the
reference.
   (B)   References in the code to action taken or authorized under designated
sections of the code include, in every case, action taken or authorized under
the applicable legislative provision which is superseded by this code.
   (C)   Whenever in one section reference is made to another section hereof,
the reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified, or renumbered, unless the subject matter be
changed or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
(Prior Code, § 10.10)
§ 10.11 ORDINANCES REPEALED.
   This code, from and after its effective date, shall contain all of the
provisions of a general nature pertaining to the subjects herein enumerated and
embraced. All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated by this code
shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date of this code of
ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 10.11)
§ 10.12 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature, and all other ordinances
pertaining to subjects not enumerated and embraced in this code of ordinances,
shall remain in full force and effect unless herein repealed expressly or by
necessary implication.
(Prior Code, § 10.12)
§ 10.13 ORDINANCES SAVED.
   Whenever an ordinance by its nature either authorizes or enables the City
Commission, or a certain city officer or employee, to make additional
ordinances or regulations for the purpose of carrying out the intent of the
ordinance, all ordinances and regulations of a similar nature serving the
purpose effected prior to the codification and not inconsistent thereto shall
remain in effect and are saved.
(Prior Code, § 10.13)
§ 10.14 AMENDMENTS TO CODE; AMENDATORY LANGUAGE.
   (A)   Any chapter, section, or division amended or added to this code by
ordinances passed subsequent to this code may be numbered in accordance with
the numbering system of this code and printed for inclusion herein. Any
chapter, section, or division repealed by subsequent ordinances may be excluded
from this code by omission from reprinted pages. Subsequent ordinances as
printed or omitted shall be prima facie evidence of the subsequent ordinances
until City Commission shall adopt a new code of ordinances.
   (B)   The method of amendment set forth in §
32.32 should be used by the city to amend, add, or repeal a chapter, section,
or division of this code of ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 10.14)
§ 10.15 CONFLICTING PROVISIONS.
   If the provisions of different codes, chapters, or sections of the codified
ordinances conflict with or contravene each other, the provisions bearing the
latest passage date shall prevail. If the conflicting provisions bear the same
passage date, the conflict shall be so construed as to be consistent with the
meaning or legal effect of the questions of the subject matter taken as a
whole.
(Prior Code, § 10.15)
§ 10.16 REFERENCE TO OFFICES.
   Reference to a public office or officer shall be deemed to apply to any
office, officer, or employee of the city exercising the powers, duties, or
functions contemplated in the provision, irrespective of any transfer of
functions or change in the official title of the functionary.
(Prior Code, § 10.16)
§ 10.17 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error be discovered, consisting of the misspelling of any word
or words, the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention
of the provisions affected, the use of a word or words to which no meaning can
be attached, or the use of a word or words when another word or words was
clearly intended to express the intention, the spelling shall be corrected, and
the word or words supplied, omitted, or substituted as will conform with the
manifest intention, and the provision shall have the same effect as though the
correct words were contained in the text as originally published. No alteration
shall be made or permitted if any question exists regarding the nature or
extent of the error.
(Prior Code, § 10.17)
§ 10.18 HISTORICAL AND STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   As histories for the code sections, the specific number and passage
date of the original ordinance, and the amending ordinances, if any, are listed
following the text of the code section. Example:
(Ord. 10, passed 5-13-1960; Ord. 15, passed 1-1-1970; Ord. 20, passed 1-1-1980;
Ord. 25, passed 1-1-1985)
   (B)   If a KRS cite is included in the history, this indicates that the text
of the section reads word-for- word the same as the statute. Example:
(KRS 83A.090)
   (C)   If a KRS cite is set forth as a “statutory reference” following the
text of the section, this indicates that the reader should refer to that
statute for further information. Example:
      § 39.01 PUBLIC RECORDS AVAILABLE.
         This municipality shall make available to any person for inspection or
copying all public records, unless otherwise exempted by state law.
      Statutory reference:
         Inspection of public records, see KRS 61.870 et seq.
(Prior Code, § 10.18)
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   Where an act or omission is prohibited or declared unlawful in this code of
ordinances, and no penalty is otherwise provided, the offense shall be deemed a
violation, and the offender shall be fined not more than $250 for each offense.
(Prior Code, § 10.99)
Statutory references:
   Enforcement of ordinances, see KRS 83A.065
   Maximum fine for violations, see KRS 534.040(2)(c)
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   COMMISSION PLAN
      
31.   CITY OFFICIALS
      
32.   CITY COMMISSION
      
33.   FINANCE AND REVENUE
      
34.   PUBLIC RECORDS
      
35.   DEPARTMENTS
      
36.   TAXATION
      
37.   CODE OF ETHICS
      
38.   PREVAILING WAGES OF CONSTRUCTION CONTRACTS
CHAPTER 30: COMMISSION PLAN
Section
   
30.01   Form of government
   
30.02   Governing officers
§ 30.01 FORM OF GOVERNMENT.
   The form of government provided in this chapter shall be known as the
“Commission Plan”.
(KRS 83A.140(1)) (Prior Code, § 30.01)
§ 30.02GOVERNING OFFICERS.
   (A)   The city shall be governed by an elected officer, who shall be called
Mayor, and by elected legislative body members, who shall be called City
Commissioners, and which together shall be known as the City Commission, and by
other officers and employees as may be provided for by statute or city
ordinance.
   (B)   The City Commission shall be composed of the Mayor and four
Commissioners.
(KRS 83A.030(2)) (Prior Code, § 30.02)
CHAPTER 31: CITY OFFICIALS
Section
General Provisions
   
31.01   Oath; bond
   
31.02   Compensation
   
31.03   Removal from office
   
31.04   Indemnification of city officials
   
31.05   Newly-elected city official training
Elected Officials
   
31.20   Election procedure
   
31.21   Mayor; Mayor Pro Tem
   
31.22   Commissioners
Nonelected City Officials
   
31.35   Establishment of nonelected city offices
   
31.36   City Clerk
   
31.37   City Treasurer
   
31.38   City Engineer
Other Officials
   
31.50   City Attorney
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 31.01 OATH; BOND.
   (A)   Oath. Each officer of the city shall, before entering upon the
discharge of duties of his or her office, take the following oath: “I do
solemnly swear (or affirm, as the case may be) that I will support the
Constitution of this Commonwealth, and the Constitution of the United States,
and be faithful and true to the Commonwealth of Kentucky, so long as I continue
a citizen thereof, and that I will faithfully execute, to the best of my
ability, the office of _________ according to law; and I do further solemnly
swear (or affirm) that, since the adoption of the present Constitution, I,
being a citizen of this United States, have not fought a duel with deadly
weapons within this State, nor out of it, nor have I sent or accepted a
challenge to fight a duel with deadly weapons, nor have I acted as a second in
carrying a challenge, nor aided or assisted any person thus offending, so help
me God”, as established by § 228 Constitution of the commonwealth.
   (B)   Bond.
      (1)   Official bonds shall, if required, meet the standards of KRS
62.060.
      (2)   All officers and employees of the city who handle public funds in
the execution of their duties shall give a good and sufficient bond to the city
for the faithful and honest performance of their duties, and as security for
all money coming into the officer’s hands or under the officer’s control. The
amount of the bond shall be established based on the amount of public funds the
officer handles at any point in time during the fiscal year and may be
satisfied by a blanket or umbrella bond covering all or a group of city
officers and employees. The cost of the bond shall be paid by the city.
      (3)   Elected officials who post bond as required by statute, and
employees of their offices covered by a blanket or umbrella bond, shall be
deemed to have complied with division (B)(1) above.
(KRS 65.067) (Prior Code, § 31.01)
§ 31.02 COMPENSATION.
   (A)   The Commission shall by ordinance fix the compensation of every
elected city officer not later than the first Monday in May in the year in
which the officer is elected. An elected officer’s compensation shall not be
changed after his or her election or during his or her term of office.
(KRS 83A.070(1))
      (1)   In order to equate the compensation of the Mayor and Commissioners
with the purchasing power of the dollar, the Governor’s Office for Local
Development computes by the second Friday in February of every year the annual
increase or decrease in the consumer price index of the preceding year by using
1949 as the base year in accordance with § 246 of the Constitution of the
commonwealth, which provides that the Mayor and Commissioners shall be paid at
a rate no greater than $7,200 per annum.
      (2)   The City Commission shall set the compensation of these officers in
accordance with KRS 83A.070 at a rate no greater than that stipulated by the
Governor’s Office for Local Development.
(KRS 83A.075)
   (B)   The Commission shall establish the compensation of city employees and
nonelected city officers in accordance with the personnel and pay
classification plan ordinance of the city.
(KRS 83A.070(2))
   (C)   All fees and commissions authorized by law shall be paid into the City
Treasury for the benefit of the city and shall not be retained by any officer
or employee.
(KRS 83A.070(3))
(Prior Code, § 31.02)
§ 31.03 REMOVAL FROM OFFICE.
   (A)   Elected officers. Any elected officer, in case of misconduct,
incapacity, or willful neglect in the performance of the duties of his or her
office, may be removed from office by a unanimous vote of the members of the
Commission exclusive of any member to be removed, who shall not vote in the
deliberation of his or her removal. No elected officer shall be removed without
having been given the right to a full public hearing. The officer, if removed,
has the right to appeal to the County Circuit Court and the appeal shall be on
the record. No officer so removed is eligible to fill the office vacated before
the expiration of the term to which originally elected.
   (B)   Nonelected officers. Nonelected city officers may be removed by the
Commission at will, unless otherwise provided by state law or ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 31.03)
Statutory references:
   Removal of elected officers, see KRS 83A.040(9)
   Removal of nonelected officers, see KRS 83A.080(3)
§ 31.04 INDEMNIFICATION OF CITY OFFICIALS.
   (A)   For purposes of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly requires a different meaning.
      ACTION IN TORT. Any claim for monetary damages based upon negligence,
intentional tort, nuisance, products liability, and strict liability, and shall
also include any wrongful death or survival-type action.
      EMPLOYEE. All full-time and part-time employees of the city, including
auxiliary police officers, if any, but shall not include any independent
contractor or any employee, agent, supplier, or subcontractor of any
independent contractor.
      OFFICER. Any elected or appointed official of the city.
   (B)   Except as provided in division (E) below, the city shall, without cost
to the officer or employee, provide for the legal defense of any officer or
employee, in any action in tort or contract arising out of an act or omission
occurring within the scope of the officer’s or employee’s employment or public
duties with the city.
   (C)   The city may provide for the defense of any officer or employee
through its own legal counsel or by employing independent legal counsel or by
purchasing insurance which requires the insurer to defend. If the city defends
through its own legal counsel and its legal counsel determines that the
interests of the officer or employee and the city conflict, the city shall
obtain the written consent of the officer or employee for such representation
or shall provide independent representation. An officer or employee may have
his or her own legal counsel to assist in the defense at the expense of the
officer or employee.
   (D)   Upon receiving service of a summons and complaint in any action in
tort or contract brought against him or her, an officer or employee shall,
within ten days of his or her receipt of service, give written notice of the
claim and make a request that the city provide a defense to the action. The
notice of claim and request for defense shall be filed with the Mayor.
   (E)   The city may refuse to provide for the defense of any action in tort
or contract brought against an officer or employee of the city if it determines
and notifies the officer or employee in writing that:
      (1)   The act or omission was not within the actual or apparent scope of
the employee’s employment or the officer’s official capacity;
      (2)   The employee or officer acted or failed to act because of fraud,
malice, or corruption; or
      (3)   A timely request to defend was not made in accordance with division
(D) above.
   (F)   If the city refuses to provide an officer or employee with a defense
and the officer or employee provides his or her own defense, the officer or
employee shall be entitled to recover all necessary and reasonable costs of
said defense from the city if the act or omission is judicially determined to
have arisen out of the actual or apparent scope of the officer’s or employee’s
employment and the officer or employee is found to have acted without fraud,
malice, or corruption.
   (G)   Subject to the limitations set forth in division (H) below, the city
shall pay any judgment rendered against an officer or employee in any action in
tort, or any compromise or settlement of such action.
   (H)   The city may refuse to pay any judgment, compromise, or settlement in
any action in tort against an officer or employee, or if the city pays any
judgment, compromise, or settlement, it may recover from the officer or
employee the amount of such payment and the costs to defend, if:
      (1)   The officer or employee acted or failed to act because of fraud,
malice, or corruption;
      (2)   The action was outside the actual or apparent scope of the
employee’s employment or the officer’s official capacity;
      (3)   The employee or officer willfully failed or refused to assist the
defense of the action; or
      (4)   The employee or officer compromised or settled the claim without
the consent of the City Commission.
   (I)   An officer or employee who is being provided a defense in an action in
tort by the city shall not enter into any compromise or settlement of the
action without the approval of the City Commission.
   (J)   Nothing in this section shall be construed as a waiver of any defense
which the city may assert in any action in tort brought against it or any
officer or employee of the city.
(Prior Code, § 31.04) (Ord. 03-1986, passed 5-8-1986)
§ 31.05 NEWLY-ELECTED CITY OFFICIAL TRAINING.
   (A)   All newly-elected officials of the city shall attend the Kentucky
League of Cities Training Program for newly-elected city officials as soon as
practical after their installment as officers. Any associated fees shall be
paid by the city.
   (B)   This municipal order shall be effective 11-12-1998.
(KRS 83A.060(12) and (13)) (Order 1, passed 11-12-1998)
ELECTED OFFICIALS
§ 31.20 ELECTION PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Election of city officers is governed by the general election laws as
provided in KRS Chs. 116 through 121 unless the Commission prescribes by
ordinance that election of city officers shall be under nonpartisan city
election laws as provided in KRS Ch. 83A. The ordinance shall become effective
not later than 23 days prior to the date prescribed by the election law
generally for filing notification and declaration forms with the County Clerk
in a year in which a regular election is to be held in which any city office is
to be filled. Immediately subsequent to publication of any ordinance
prescribing that election of city officers be under nonpartisan city election
laws, a copy of the ordinance shall be filed with the County Clerk of the
county in which the city is located.
   (B)   The city may change the manner of election of city officers within the
provisions of division (A) above, except that no change shall be made earlier
than five years from the last change.
   (C)   The city shall pay the costs of city elections only if city elections
are held at a time other than prescribed by law for elections generally.
(KRS 83A.050)
   (D)   Each appointed and elected city office existing upon adoption of this
chapter shall continue until abolished by ordinance, except that the Offices of
Mayor and Commissioners may not be abolished.
   (E)   No abolition of any elected office shall take effect until expiration
of the term of the current holder of the office.
   (F)   No ordinance abolishing any elected office shall be enacted later than
240 days preceding the regular election for that office, except in the event of
a vacancy in the office.
(KRS 83A.080(4))
   (G)   The city may not create any elected office. Existing elected offices
may be continued under the provision of divisions (D), (E), and (F) above, but
no existing elected office may be changed.
(KRS 83A.080(5))
(Prior Code, § 31.20)
§ 31.21 MAYOR; MAYOR PRO TEM.
   (A)   Election; term of office. The Mayor of this city shall be elected by
the voters of the city at a regular election. A candidate for Mayor shall be a
resident of the city for not less than one year prior to his or her election.
His or her term of office begins on January 1 following his or her election and
shall be for four years and until his or her successor qualifies. If a person
is selected or appointed as Mayor in response to a vacancy and serves less than
four calendar years, then that period of service shall not be considered for
purposes of re-election to a term of office.
   (B)   Qualifications. The Mayor shall be at least 25 years of age, shall be
a qualified voter in the city, and shall reside in the city throughout his or
her term of office.
(KRS 83A.040(1))
   (C)   Vacancy. If a vacancy occurs in the Office of Mayor, the Commission
shall fill the vacancy within 30 days. If for any reason any vacancy in the
Office of Mayor is not filled within 30 days after it occurs, the Governor
shall promptly fill the vacancy by appointment of a qualified person who shall
serve for the same period as if otherwise appointed.
(KRS 83A.040(2)(a), (6))
      (1)   When voting to fill a vacancy in the Office of Mayor, a member of
the City Commission may vote for himself or herself.
(KRS 83A.040(2)(b))
      (2)   When voting to fill a vacancy created by the resignation of the
Mayor, the resigning Mayor shall not vote on his or her successor.
(KRS 83A.040(3))
      (3)    No vacancy by reason of a voluntary resignation in the Office of
Mayor shall occur unless a written resignation which specifies the resignation
date is tendered to the City Commission. The resignation may be submitted
through electronic mail if it originates from the official’s electronic mail
address and includes also the official’s handwritten signature. The resignation
shall be effective at the next regular or special meeting of the City
Commission occurring on or after the date specified in the written letter of
resignation. If a resignation date is not specified, the written resignation
shall be deemed to become effective at the first regular or special meeting of
the City Commission occurring on or after its receipt.
(KRS 83A.040(7))
      (4)   If a vacancy occurs in the Office of Mayor which is required by law
to be filled temporarily by appointment, the City Commission shall immediately
notify in writing both the County Clerk and the Secretary of State of the
vacancy.
(KRS 83A.040(8))
      (5)   The City Commission shall elect from among its members an
individual to preside over meetings of the City Commission during any vacancy
in the Office of the Mayor in accordance with the provisions of KRS 83A.130 to
83A.150.
(KRS 83A.040(2)(d))
   (D)   Powers and duties.
      (1)   The Mayor shall preside at all meetings of the Commission and may
vote in all proceedings.
      (2)   All bonds, notes, contracts, and written obligations of the city
authorized by ordinance or resolution shall be executed by the Mayor on behalf
of the city.
   (E)   Mayor Pro Tem.
      (1)   The Commission shall designate one City Commissioner to serve as
Mayor Pro Tem. The Mayor Pro Tem shall act for the Mayor whenever the Mayor is
unable to attend to the duties of his or her office, and he or she shall then
possess all rights, powers, and duties of Mayor.
      (2)   If the disability of the Mayor to attend to his or her duties
continues for 60 consecutive days, the Office of Mayor may be declared vacant
by a majority vote of the Commission membership, and the provisions of division
(C) above shall apply.
(KRS 83A.140(4))
(Prior Code, § 31.21)
§ 31.22 COMMISSIONERS.
   For provisions concerning the City Commission, see
Chapter 32.
(Prior Code, § 31.22)
NONELECTED CITY OFFICIALS
§ 31.35 ESTABLISHMENT OF NONELECTED CITY OFFICES.
   (A)   All nonelected city offices shall be created by ordinance which shall
specify:
      (1)   Title of office;
      (2)   Powers and duties of office;
      (3)   Oath of office; and
      (4)   Bond, if required.
(KRS 83A.080)
   (B)   All nonelected city officers shall be appointed by the Commission.
   (C)   All nonelected officers may be removed by the Commission at will
unless otherwise provided by statute or ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 31.35)
Statutory reference:
   Nonelected city offices, see KRS 83A.080(2), (3)
§ 31.36 CITY CLERK.
   (A)   Establishment. The city hereby establishes the Office of City Clerk.
   (B)   Duties and powers. The duties and responsibilities of the Clerk
required by statute shall include, but are not limited to, the following:
      (1)   Maintenance and safekeeping of the permanent records of the city;
      (2)   Performance of the duties required of the custodian pursuant to
Chapter 34 of this code of ordinances;
      (3)   Possession of the seal of the city if used;
      (4)   No later than January 31 of each year, mail or electronically
submit to the Department of Local Government a list containing current city
information including, but not limited to, the following:
         (a)   The correct name, telephone number, and electronic mail address
of the Mayor, Commission members, and the correct name, telephone number, and
electronic mail address for the city's appointed officials or employees who are
serving in the following roles or substantially similar roles as of January 1
of each year:
            1.   City Clerk;
            2.   City Treasurer or chief financial officer;
            3.   City Manager or administrator;
            4.   City Attorney;
            5.   Human resources Director;
            6.   Police Chief;
            7.   Fire Chief;
            8.   Public Works Director;
            9.   Risk manager;
            10.   Information technology manager;
            11.   Public relations or communications officer; and
            12.   Planning and zoning administrator.
         (b)   The correct name of the city, mailing address for City Hall, and
telephone number of City Hall; and
         (c)   The name and telephone number of either an elected or appointed
official to serve as a contact person that may be reached during normal
business hours of 8:00 a.m. to 4:30 p.m.
(KRS 83A.085)
   (C)   Additional duties and powers. Further duties of the City Clerk
required by this section shall be:
      (1)   To keep a true and complete record of all proceedings of the City
Commission;
      (2)   To handle all incoming and outgoing correspondence;
      (3)   To keep city files on contracts, ordinances, and city documents;
      (4)   To keep a list of contractors;
      (5)   To prepare an agenda for city meetings;
      (6)   To contact new residents and inform them of city services available
to them;
      (7)   To keep up with all real estate transactions;
      (8)   To keep a running file on assessments;
      (9)   To issue tax bills;
      (10)   To publish the Bancroft Bulletin;
      (11)   To handle dealings with contractors;
      (12)   To publish a directory;
      (13)   To issue permits;
      (14)   To keep books and issue checks;
      (15)   To publish notices;
      (16)   To act as a clearing house for complaints from citizens; and
      (17)   To perform such other duties as may be required by statute or
ordinance.
   (D)   Compensation. The compensation of the City Clerk shall be in an amount
to be established by the City Commission by ordinance.
   (E)   Oath; bond. No person shall be appointed or act as the City Clerk
unless such person has taken the oath required by § 228 of the Constitution of
the commonwealth, and has provided bond, in an amount of $5,000 with corporate
surety authorized to transact business in the commonwealth and conditioned upon
the performance of the duties specified herein.
(Prior Code, § 31.36) (Ord. 3-1970, passed 8-20-1970; Ord. 6-1973, passed 3-1-
1973; Ord. 1-1987, passed 4-2-1987; Ord. 7, Series 1997, passed 12-11-1997)
Cross-reference:
   Compensation, see §
31.02
§ 31.37 CITY TREASURER.
   (A)   Establishment. The Office of City Treasurer is hereby established.
   (B)   Appointment and qualifications. The City Commission shall appoint a
City Treasurer who shall be the custodian of all funds of the city. The City
Commission may remove the City Treasurer at will. He or she shall have
graduated from an accredited high school and shall be chosen on the basis of
his or her secretarial and accounting skills.
   (C)   Duties and powers. The City Treasurer shall have and exercise all
powers and duties assigned to him or her by statute, this chapter, and other
municipal responsibilities delegated from time to time. He or she shall advise
the City Commission and all other city officers and employees in all financial
matters pertaining to their municipal duties or employment or affecting the
interests of the city. He or she shall collect, keep safe, promptly deposit,
and account for all city revenues and monies from all sources; shall maintain
accurate and complete records of all city financial transactions according to
accepted accounting standards; and shall submit summary statements of receipts
and disbursements monthly to the City Commission. He or she shall prepare and
maintain payroll records for all city officers and employees, verify the public
purpose of and the city’s legal obligation for all disbursements from city
funds, pay all claims and accounts against the city approved by the City
Commission, and sign all checks authorized to be issued against city funds.
   (D)   Oath and bond. No person shall be appointed or act as the City
Treasurer unless such person has taken the oath required by § 228 of the
Constitution of the commonwealth, and has provided a bond in the sum of $5,000,
with corporate surety authorized to transact business in the commonwealth and
conditioned upon the performance of the duties specified herein.
   (E)   Compensation. The compensation of the City Treasurer shall be in an
amount to be established by City Commission by ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 31.37) (Ord. 3-1970, passed 8-20-1970)
§ 31.38 CITY ENGINEER.
   (A)   Establishment. The Office of City Engineer is hereby established.
   (B)   Appointment and qualifications. The City Engineer shall be appointed
by the City Commission and may be removed by the Commission at will.
   (C)   Oath; bond. No person shall be appointed or act as the City Engineer
unless such person has taken the oath required by § 228 of the Constitution of
the commonwealth and has provided a bond, if required, in the sum as
established by City Commission, with corporate surety authorized to transact
business in the commonwealth and conditioned upon the performance of the duties
specified herein.
   (D)   Duties and powers. The City Engineer shall advise the City Commission
on all matters relating to the maintenance and improvement of streets, alleys,
and other public ways, and on matters which may be deemed necessary for the
public good, welfare, and convenience, including matters pertaining to sewers
and culverts, and shall perform such work and services in connection therewith,
as may be assigned him or her by the City Commission.
   (E)   Compensation. The compensation of the City Engineer shall be in an
amount to be established by City Commission by ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 31.38)
OTHER OFFICIALS
§ 31.50 CITY ATTORNEY.
   (A)   The City Commission shall retain a City Attorney who shall be the
legal counsel for the city. He or she shall be an attorney licensed to practice
in the commonwealth. He or she shall be chosen solely on the basis of his or
her legal qualifications, with special emphasis on actual experience in or
knowledge of municipal and administrative law of the commonwealth. The City
Attorney may also engage in the private practice of law and may hold other
public or private employment.
   (B)   The City Attorney shall have and exercise all powers and duties
assigned to him or her by statute, this chapter, and such other municipal
responsibilities delegated from time to time. He or she shall attend meetings
of the City Commission, as required, shall advise the City Commission and all
other city officers and employees in all legal matters pertaining to their
municipal duties or affecting the interests of the city, shall appear for and
defend the city in all legal actions and administrative proceedings in which
the city is a party or is interested, shall institute legal action for and on
behalf of the city wherever necessary for protection or enforcement of rights
or interests of the city, shall prepare and examine ordinances, resolutions,
orders, and legal instruments as the Commission may direct, and generally shall
attend to all legal business of the city.
   (C)   In addition to the monthly retainer, the City Attorney may receive
additional compensation as an independent contractor for all matters beyond the
scope of usual legal counsel to the city or requiring an unusual amount of
time. For such extraordinary services, the City Attorney shall be paid
reasonable fees commensurate with the amount and value of time devoted thereto,
based upon charges made by other attorneys for comparable legal services.
(Prior Code, § 31.45)
CHAPTER 32: CITY COMMISSION
Section
General Provisions
   
32.01   Members; election, qualifications, and compensation
   
32.02   Vacancies
   
32.03   Powers and duties
   
32.04   Each Commissioner to superintend specific city departments
Rules of Procedure
   
32.15   Mayor as Presiding Officer
   
32.16   Meetings
   
32.17   Quorum
Ordinances
   
32.30   One subject; title
   
32.31   Introduction; enacting clause
   
32.32   Form of amendment
   
32.33   Reading requirement; exception for emergency
   
32.34   Adoption of standard codes by reference
   
32.35   Official city records
   
32.36   Indexing and maintenance requirements
   
32.37   Publication requirements
   
32.38   Additional requirements for adoption may be established by city
   
32.39   Periodic review required
   
32.40   Municipal orders
   
32.41   Proved by City Clerk; received in evidence
   
32.42   Legislative immunity
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 32.01 MEMBERS; ELECTION, QUALIFICATIONS, AND COMPENSATION.
   (A)   Election; term of office. Each Commissioner shall be elected at large
by the voters of the city at a regular election. A candidate for Commission
shall be a resident of the city for not less than one year prior to his or her
election. Terms of office begin on January 1 following the election and shall
be for two years, except as provided by KRS 83A.050.
   (B)   Qualifications. A member shall be at least 21 years of age, shall be a
qualified voter in the city, and shall reside in the city throughout his or her
term of office.
(KRS 83A.040(4))
   (C)   Compensation. For provisions concerning compensation, see §
31.02.
(Prior Code, § 32.01)
§ 32.02 VACANCIES.
   (A)   Vacancies.
      (1)   If one or more vacancies on Commission occur in a way that one or
more members remain seated, the remaining members shall, within 30 days, fill
the vacancies one at a time, giving each new appointee reasonable notice of his
or her selection as will enable him or her to meet and act with the remaining
members in making further appointments until all vacancies are filled.
      (2)   If vacancies occur in a way that all seats become vacant, the
Governor shall appoint qualified persons to fill the vacancies sufficient to
constitute a quorum.
      (3)   Remaining vacancies are filled as provided in this section.
(KRS 83A.040(5))
         (a)    No vacancy by reason of a voluntary resignation of a member of
the City Commission shall occur unless a written resignation which specifies a
resignation date is tendered to the City Commission. The resignation may be
submitted through electronic mail if it originates from the official’s
electronic mail address and includes also the official’s handwritten signature.
The resignation shall be effective at the next regular or special meeting of
the City Commission occurring on or after the date specified in the written
letter of resignation. If a resignation date is not specified, the written
resignation shall be deemed to become effective at the first regular or special
meeting of the City Commission occurring on or after its receipt.
(KRS 83A.040(7))
         (b)   Pursuant to KRS 118.305(7), if a vacancy occurs on the City
Commission which is required by law to be filled temporarily by appointment,
the City Commission shall immediately notify in writing both the County Clerk
and the Secretary of State of the vacancy.
(KRS 83A.040(8))
   (B)   Failure to fill vacancies. If, for any reason, any vacancy on
Commission is not filled within 30 days after it occurs, the Governor shall
promptly fill the vacancy by appointment of a qualified person who shall serve
for the same period as if otherwise appointed.
(KRS 83A.040(6))
(Prior Code, § 32.02)
Statutory reference:
   Filling of vacancies for nonpartisan city office, see KRS 83A.175
§ 32.03 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   All legislative, executive, and administrative authority of the city
is hereby vested in and exercised by the Commission. The Commission shall
enforce the Commission Plan, ordinances, orders of the city, and all applicable
statutes.
      (1)   The Commission shall maintain liaison with related units of local
government respecting interlocal contracting and joint activities.
      (2)   The Commission shall supervise all departments of city government
and the conduct of all city officers and employees under its jurisdiction and
may require each department to make reports to it as it finds necessary.
      (3)   The Commission shall report to the public on the condition and
needs of the city government as provided by ordinance, but not less than
annually.
(KRS 83A.140(3))
   (B)   In carrying out its duty to supervise the departments of city
government and the conduct of all city officers and employees under its
jurisdiction, the Commission may require any city officer or employee to
prepare and submit to its sworn statements regarding the performance of his or
her official duties.
(KRS 83A.140(5))
   (C)   The Commission shall by ordinance establish all appointive offices and
the duties and responsibilities of those offices and codes, rules, and
regulations for the public health, safety, and welfare.
   (D)   The Commission shall by ordinance provide for sufficient revenue to
operate city government and shall appropriate these funds in a budget which
shall provide for the orderly management of the city’s resources.
   (E)   The Commission shall promulgate procedures to ensure orderly
administration of the functions of city government and compliance with
statutes, ordinances, or orders.
(KRS 83A.140(8))
(Prior Code, § 32.03)
§ 32.04 EACH COMMISSIONER TO SUPERINTEND SPECIFIC CITY DEPARTMENTS.
   (A)   All administrative and service functions of the city shall be
classified under departments created by ordinance which shall prescribe the
functions of the department and the duties and responsibilities of the
department head and his or her employees.
   (B)   The Commission shall, at its first regular meeting in each year,
designate the Commission member to have superintendence over each department
established under this section; however, the Commission may delegate
responsibility for overall supervision of any or all departments to a city
administrative officer established pursuant to KRS 83A.090.
(KRS 83A.140(6)) (Prior Code, § 32.04)
RULES OF PROCEDURE
§ 32.15 MAYOR AS PRESIDING OFFICER.
   The Mayor shall preside at all meetings of the Commission and may vote in
all proceedings.
(KRS 83A.140(4)) (Prior Code, § 32.20)
Cross-reference:
   Vacancy in Office of Mayor; Mayor Pro Tem, see §
31.21
§ 32.16 MEETINGS.
   (A)   Regular meetings of the Commission shall be held on the second
Wednesday of each month at 7:00 p.m. at St. Albert the Great Catholic Church,
1395 Girard Dr. Louisville, KY 40222.
   (B)   Special meetings may be called by the Mayor or a majority of the City
Commissioners. In the call, the Mayor or City Commissioners shall designate the
purpose, time, and place of the special meeting with sufficient notice for the
attendance of Commission members and for compliance with KRS Ch. 61.
   (C)   At a special meeting, no business may be considered other than that
set forth in the designation of purpose.
   (D)   The minutes of every meeting shall be signed by the person responsible
for maintaining city records as provided under §
31.36 and by the officer presiding at the meeting.
   (E)   (1)   All regular meetings where two or more city officials meet may
be attended by the public by video conference. The instructions for access to
the link for the meeting will be posted on the Bancroft Official web site.
      (2)   The Mayor, or a majority of the Commission may choose to conduct
the regularly scheduled monthly meeting by video conferencing. The Mayor, or
designee, shall provide notice to all Commission members and city residents of
the change from the regularly scheduled meeting location to a video conference
meeting. The instructions for access to the link for the meeting shall be
posted on the meeting agenda.
      (3)   If a physical location is provided or two or more members are
attending from the same location, precisely identify the physical location and
allow public attendance at that location.
      (4)   Any interruption in the video or audio broadcast at any location
shall result in the suspension of the video conference until the broadcast is
restored.
(KRS 83A.140(7)) (Prior Code, § 32.21) (Ord. 1-1984, passed 1-5-1984; Ord. 5-
1987, passed 10-8-1987; Ord. 6-87, passed 10-8-1987; Ord 1, Series 2023, passed
1-25-2023)
§ 32.17 QUORUM.
   Unless otherwise provided by statute, a majority of the Commission
constitutes a quorum and a vote of a majority of a quorum is sufficient to take
action.
(KRS 83A.060(6)) (Prior Code, § 32.22)
ORDINANCES
§ 32.30 ONE SUBJECT; TITLE.
   Each ordinance shall embrace only one subject and shall have a title that
clearly states the subject.
(KRS 83A.060(1)) (Prior Code, § 32.35)
§ 32.31 INTRODUCTION; ENACTING CLAUSE.
   Each ordinance shall be introduced in writing and shall have an enacting
clause, styled: “Be it ordained by the City of              ”.
(KRS 83A.060(2)) (Prior Code, § 32.36)
§ 32.32 FORM OF AMENDMENT.
   No ordinance shall be amended by reference to its title only, and ordinances
to amend shall set out in full the amended ordinance or section indicating any
words being added by a single solid line drawn underneath them, and any words
being deleted by a single broken line drawn through them.
(KRS 83A.060(3)) (Prior Code, § 32.37)
§ 32.33 READING REQUIREMENT; EXCEPTION FOR EMERGENCY.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (B) below, no ordinance shall be
enacted until it has been read on two separate days. The reading of an
ordinance may be satisfied by stating the title and reading a summary rather
than the full text.
(KRS 83A.060(4))
   (B)   In an emergency, upon the affirmative vote of two-thirds of the
membership, the Commission may suspend the requirements of second reading and
publication in order for an ordinance to become effective by naming and
describing the emergency in the ordinance. Publication requirements of §
32.37 shall be complied with within ten days of the enactment of the emergency
ordinance.
(KRS 83A.060(7))
(Prior Code, § 32.38)
§ 32.34ADOPTION OF STANDARD CODES BY REFERENCE.
   The Commission may adopt the provisions of any local, state-wide, or
nationally-recognized standard code and codifications of entire bodies of local
legislation by an ordinance that identifies the subject matter by title,
source, and date and incorporates the adopted provisions by reference without
setting them out in full, if a copy accompanies the adopting ordinance and is
made a part of the permanent records of the city.
(KRS 83A.060(5)) (Prior Code, § 32.39)
§ 32.35 OFFICIAL CITY RECORDS.
   (A)   Every action of the Commission is hereby made a part of the permanent
records of the city, and on passage of an ordinance, the vote of each member of
the Commission shall be entered on the official record of the meeting.
   (B)   The Commission has provided, under the provisions of §§
31.36(B) and (C) and
32.36, for the maintenance and safekeeping of the permanent records of the
city. The City Clerk and the presiding officer shall sign the official record
of each meeting.
(KRS 83A.060(8)) (Prior Code, § 32.40)
§ 32.36 INDEXING AND MAINTENANCE REQUIREMENTS.
   At the end of each month, all ordinances adopted in the city shall be
indexed and maintained by the City Clerk in the following manner:
   (A)   The city budget, appropriations of money, and tax levies shall be
maintained and indexed so that each fiscal year is kept separate from other
years; and
   (B)   All other city ordinances shall be kept in the minute book or an
ordinance book in the order adopted and maintained in this code of ordinances.
(KRS 83A.060(8)) (Prior Code, § 32.41)
§ 32.37 PUBLICATION REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Except as provided in §
32.33(B), no ordinance shall be enforceable until published pursuant to KRS Ch.
424.
   (B)   Ordinances may be published in full or in summary as designated by the
Commission. If the Commission elects to publish an ordinance in summary, the
summary shall be prepared or certified by an attorney licensed to practice law
in the commonwealth, and shall include the following:
      (1)   The title of the ordinance;
      (2)   A brief narrative setting forth the main points of the ordinance in
a way reasonably calculated to inform the public in a clear and understandable
manner of the meaning of the ordinance; and
      (3)   The full text of each section that imposes taxes or fees.
   (C)   Ordinances that include descriptions of real property may include a
sketch, drawing, or map, including common landmarks such as streets or roads in
lieu of metes and bounds descriptions.
(KRS 83A.060(9)) (Prior Code, § 32.42)
§ 32.38 ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENTS FOR ADOPTION MAY BE ESTABLISHED BY CITY.
   The city may, by ordinance, specify additional requirements for adoption of
ordinances in greater detail than contained herein, but the city may not lessen
or reduce the substantial requirements of this chapter or any statute relating
to adoption of ordinances.
(KRS 83A.060(10)) (Prior Code, § 32.43)
§ 32.39 PERIODIC REVIEW REQUIRED.
   Not less than once every five years, all ordinances in this code of
ordinances shall be examined for consistency with state law and with one
another, and shall be revised to eliminate redundant, obsolete, inconsistent,
and invalid provisions.
(KRS 83A.060(11)) (Prior Code, § 32.44)
§ 32.40 MUNICIPAL ORDERS.
   (A)   The Commission may adopt municipal orders. All municipal orders shall
be in writing and shall be adopted only at an official meeting. Orders may be
amended only by a subsequent municipal order or ordinance. All orders adopted
shall be maintained in an official order book.
(KRS 83A.060(12))
   (B)   In lieu of an ordinance, municipal orders may be used for matters
relating to the internal operation and functions of the city and to appoint or
remove or approve appointment or removal of members of boards, commissions, and
other agencies over which the Commission has control.
(KRS 83A.060(13))
(Prior Code, § 32.45)
§ 32.41 PROVED BY CITY CLERK; RECEIVED IN EVIDENCE.
   All ordinances and orders of the city may be proved by the signature of the
City Clerk; and when the ordinances are placed in this code of ordinances by
authority of the city, the printed copy shall be received in evidence by any
state court without further proof of the ordinances.
(KRS 83A.060(14)) (Prior Code, § 32.46)
§ 32.42 LEGISLATIVE IMMUNITY.
   For anything said in debate, Commissioners shall be entitled to the same
immunities and protections allowed to members of the General Assembly.
(KRS 83A.060(15)) (Prior Code, § 32.47)
Statutory reference:
   Privileges of members of General Assembly, see KRS 6.050 and Constitution of
the commonwealth § 43
CHAPTER 33: FINANCE AND REVENUE
Section
Financial Administration
   
33.01   Definitions
   
33.02   Accounting records and financial reports
   
33.03   Annual budget ordinance
   
33.04   Audit of city funds
   
33.05   Official depositories; disbursement of city funds
   
33.06   Fiscal year
Improvements
   
33.20   Definitions
   
33.21   Financing of improvements
   
33.22   Apportionment of cost
   
33.23   Comprehensive report required
   
33.24   Public hearing required
   
33.25   Adoption of ordinance; notice to affected owners
   
33.26   Affected owner may contest
   
33.27   When city may proceed; assessment constitutes lien
   
33.28   Effect of additional property or change in financing
 
   
33.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Department of Administration and Finance, see §§
35.015,
35.016
FINANCIAL ADMINISTRATION
§ 33.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUDGET. A proposed plan for raising and spending money for specified
programs, functions, activities, or objectives during a fiscal year.
   DEBT SERVICE. The sum of money required to pay installments of principal and
interest on bonds, notes, and other evidences of debt accruing within a fiscal
year, and to maintain sinking funds.
   ENCUMBRANCES. Obligations in the form of purchase orders or contracts that
are chargeable to an appropriation. An obligation ceases to be an ENCUMBRANCE
when paid or when the actual liability is recorded.
   FISCAL YEAR. The accounting period for the administration of fiscal
operations.
   GENERALLY ACCEPTED GOVERNMENTAL AUDITING STANDARDS. Those standards for
audit of governmental organizations, programs, activities, and functions issued
by the U.S. Comptroller General.
   GENERALLY ACCEPTED PRINCIPLES OF GOVERNMENTAL ACCOUNTING. Those standards
and procedures promulgated and recognized by the Governmental Accounting
Standards Board.
(KRS 91A.010) (Prior Code, § 33.01)
§ 33.02 ACCOUNTING RECORDS AND FINANCIAL REPORTS.
   (A)   The city shall keep its accounting records and render financial
reports in such a way as to:
      (1)   Determine compliance with statutory provisions; and
      (2)   Determine fairly and with full disclosure the financial operations
of constituent funds and account groups of the city in conformity with
generally accepted governmental accounting principles.
   (B)   The municipal accounting system shall be organized and operated on a
fund basis.
(KRS 91A.020) (Prior Code, § 33.02)
§ 33.03 ANNUAL BUDGET ORDINANCE.
   (A)   The city shall operate under an annual budget ordinance adopted and
administered in accordance with the provisions of this division (A). No monies
shall be expended from any governmental or proprietary fund except in
accordance with a budget ordinance adopted pursuant to this section.
   (B)   Monies held by the city as a trustee or agent for individuals, private
organizations, or other governmental units need not be included in the budget
ordinance.
   (C)   If in any fiscal year subsequent to a fiscal year in which the city
has adopted a budget ordinance in accordance with this section, no budget
ordinance is adopted, the budget ordinance of the previous fiscal year has full
force and effect as if readopted.
   (D)   The budget ordinance of the city shall cover one fiscal year.
   (E)   Preparation of the budget proposal shall be the responsibility of the
Commission.
   (F)   The budget proposal shall be prepared in the form and detail as
prescribed by ordinance.
   (G)   The budget proposal together with a budget message shall be submitted
to the Commission not later than 30 days prior to the beginning of the fiscal
year it covers. The budget message shall contain an explanation of the
governmental goals fixed by the budget for the coming fiscal year; explain
important features of the activities anticipated in the budget; set forth the
reasons for stated changes from the previous year in program goals, programs,
and appropriation levels; and explain any major changes in fiscal policy.
   (H)   (1)   The Commission shall adopt a budget ordinance making
appropriations for the fiscal year in such sums as it finds sufficient and
proper, whether greater or less than the sums recommended in the budget
proposal. The budget ordinance may take any form that the Commission finds most
efficient in enabling it to make the necessary fiscal policy decisions.
      (2)   No budget ordinance shall be adopted which provides for
appropriations to exceed revenues in any one fiscal year in violation of § 157
of the Constitution of the commonwealth.
   (I)   The full amount estimated to be required for debt service during the
budget year shall be appropriated, for all governmental fund types.
   (J)   The Commission may amend the budget ordinance at any time after the
ordinance’s adoption, so long as the amended ordinance continues to satisfy the
requirements of this section.
   (K)   Administration and implementation of an adopted budget ordinance shall
be the responsibility of the Commission. That responsibility includes the
preparation and submission to the Commission of operating statements, including
budgetary comparisons of each governmental fund for which an annual budget has
been adopted. The reports shall be submitted not less than once every three
months in each fiscal year.
   (L)   To the extent practical, the system utilized in the administration and
implementation of the adopted budget ordinance shall be consistent in form with
the accounting system called for in §
33.02.
   (M)   No city agency, or member, director, officer, or employee of any city
agency, may bind the city in any way to any extent beyond the amount of money
at that time appropriated for the purpose of the agency. All contracts,
agreements, and obligations, express or implied, beyond the existing
appropriations are void; nor shall any city officer issue any bond,
certificate, or warrant for the payment of money by the city in any way to any
extent, beyond the unexpended balance of any appropriation made for the
purpose.
(KRS 91A.030) (Prior Code, § 33.03)
§ 33.04 AUDIT OF CITY FUNDS.
   (A)   (1)   Except as provided in division (B) below, each city of the sixth
class shall, after the close of each odd-numbered fiscal year, cause each fund
of the city to be audited by the Auditor of Public Accounts or a certified
public accountant. The audit shall be completed by March 1 immediately
following the fiscal year to be audited. The city shall forward an electronic
copy of the audit report to the Department for Local Government for information
purposes by no later than April 1 immediately following the fiscal year being
audited.
      (2)   After the close of each even-numbered fiscal year, the city shall
not be required to complete an annual audit but shall forward an electronic
copy of its financial statement prepared in accordance with KRS 424.220 to the
Department for Local Government by no later than October 1 immediately
following the close of the even-numbered fiscal year.
   (B)   Any city of the sixth class, which for any fiscal year receives and
expends, from all sources and for all purposes, less than $150,000, and which
has no long-term debt, whether general obligation or revenue debt, shall not be
required to audit each fund of the city for that particular fiscal year. In
addition, each city shall:
      (1)   Annually prepare a financial statement in accordance with KRS
424.220 and shall, no later than October 1 following the conclusion of the
fiscal year, forward one electronic copy to the Deparment for Local Government
for information purposes; and
      (2)   If exempted under KRS 91A.040(4) for more than four consecutive
fiscal years after July 1, 2022, have prepared an attestation engagement
covering the fourth fiscal year in which the city qualified for an exemption.
An attestation engagement completed pursuant to KRS 91A.040(4) shall be:
         (a)   Prepared by an independent certified public accountant or by the
Auditor of Public Accounts pursuant to a contract with the city using generally
accepted attestation standards as promulgated by the American Institute of
Certified Public Accountants and any additional procedures established by the
Department for Local Government through administrative regulation;
         (b)   Completed by no later than March 1 immediately following the
conclusion of the fiscal year in which in the attestation engagement is
required;
         (c)   Submitted to the Department of Local Government as one
electronic copy no later than April 1 after its completion;
         (d)   Advertised to the public within 30 days of its completion by
causing the publication of a legal display advertisement of not less than six
column inches in a newspaper qualified under KRS 424.220 stating that the
attestation has been prepared and copies have been provided to each local
newspaper of general circulation, each news service, and each local radio and
television station which has on file with the city a written request to receive
copies of financial statements under KRS 424.220. Any city advertising under
this division shall be exempt from publishing its financial statement under KRS
424.220(6)(b) for any year in which it is required to have an attestation
engagement completed and;
         (e)   Provide to the Auditor of Public Accounts upon request for
review of the final report and all related work papers and documents regarding
the attestation engagement.
   (C)   Each city required by this section to conduct an annual or biennial
audit shall enter into a written contract with the selected Auditor. The
contract shall set forth all terms and conditions of the agreement which shall
include, but not be limited to, requirements that:
      (1)   The Auditor shall be employed to examine the basic financial
statements which shall include the government-wide and fund financial
statements;
      (2)   The Auditor shall include in the annual city audit report an
examination of local government economic assistance funds granted to the city
under KRS 42.450 to 42.495. The Auditor shall include a certification with the
annual audit report that the funds were expended for the purpose intended;
      (3)   All audit information shall be prepared in accordance with
generally accepted governmental auditing standards which include tests of the
accounting records and auditing procedures considered necessary in the
circumstances. Where the audit is to cover the use of state or federal funds,
appropriate state or federal guidelines shall be utilized;
      (4)   The Auditor shall prepare a typewritten or printed report
embodying:
         (a)   The basic financial statements and accompanying supplemental and
required supplemental information;
         (b)   The Auditor’s opinion on the basic financial statements or
reasons why an opinion cannot be expressed; and
         (c)   Findings required to be reported as a result of the audit.
      (5)   The completed audit and all accompanying documentation shall be
presented to the Commission at a regular or special meeting; and
      (6)   Any contract with a certified public accountant for an audit shall
require the accountant to forward a copy of the audit report and management
letters to the Auditor of Public Accounts upon request of the city or the
Auditor of Public Accounts, and the Auditor of Public Accounts shall have the
right to review the certified public accountant’s workpapers upon request.
   (D)   A copy of an audit report which meets the requirements of this section
shall be considered satisfactory and final in meeting any official request to
the city for financial data, except for statutory or judicial requirements, or
requirements of the Legislative Research Commission necessary to carry out the
purposes of KRS 6.955 to 6.975.
   (E)   Each city shall, within 30 days after the presentation of an audit to
the city legislative body, publish an advertisement, in accordance with KRS Ch.
424, containing:
      (1)   The auditor’s opinion letter;
      (2)   The “Budgetary Comparison Schedules - Major Funds”, which shall
include the General Fund and all major funds;
      (3)   A statement that a copy of the complete audit report, including
financial statements and supplemental information, is on file at City Hall and
is available for public inspection during normal business hours;
      (4)   A statement that any citizen may obtain from City Hall a copy of
the complete audit report, including financial statements and supplemental
information, for his or her personal use;
      (5)   A statement which notifies citizens requesting a personal copy of
the city audit report that they will be charged for duplication costs at a rate
that shall not exceed $0.25 per page; and
      (6)   A statement that copies of the financial statement prepared in
accordance with KRS 424.220 are available to the public at no cost at the
business address of the officer responsible for preparation of the statement.
(KRS 91A.040) (Prior Code, § 33.04) Penalty, see §
33.99
Statutory reference:
   Department for Local Government to provide assistance, see KRS 91A.050
§ 33.05 OFFICIAL DEPOSITORIES; DISBURSEMENT OF CITY FUNDS.
   (A)   The Commission shall designate as the city’s official depositories one
or more banks, federally- insured savings and loan companies, or trust
companies within the commonwealth. The amount of funds on deposit in an
official depository shall be fully insured by deposit insurance or
collateralized in accordance with 12 U.S.C. § 1823, to the extent uninsured, by
any obligations, including surety bonds permitted by KRS 41.240(4).
   (B)   All receipts from any source of city money or money for which the city
is responsible, which has not been otherwise invested or deposited in a manner
authorized by law, shall be deposited in official depositories. All city funds
shall be disbursed by written authorization approved by the Commission which
states the name of the person to whom funds are payable, the purpose of the
payment, and the fund out of which the funds are payable. Each authorization
shall be numbered and recorded.
(KRS 91A.060) (Prior Code, § 33.05)
§ 33.06 FISCAL YEAR.
   Pursuant to § 169 of the Constitution of the commonwealth, July 1 to June 30
is hereby established as the fiscal year for the operation of the city.
(Prior Code, § 33.06)
IMPROVEMENTS
§ 33.20 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ASSESSED VALUE BASIS. The apportionment of cost of an improvement according
to the ratio the assessed value of individual parcels of property bears to the
total assessed value of all the properties.
   BENEFITS RECEIVED BASIS. The apportionment of cost of an improvement
according to equitable determination by the Commission of the special benefit
received by property from the improvement, including assessed value basis,
front foot basis, and square foot basis, or any combination thereof, and may
include consideration of assessed value of land only, graduation for different
classes of property based on nature and extent of special benefits received,
and other factors affecting benefits received.
   COST. All costs related to an improvement, including planning, design,
property, or easement acquisition and construction costs, fiscal and legal
fees, financing costs, and publication expenses.
   FAIR BASIS. Assessed value basis, front foot basis, square foot basis, or
benefits received basis.
   FRONT FOOT BASIS. The apportionment of cost of an improvement according to
the ratio the front footage on the improvement of individual parcels of
property bears to the front footage of all the properties.
   IMPROVEMENT. Construction of any facility for public use or services or any
addition thereto, which is of special benefit to specific properties in the
area served by the facility.
   PROPERTY. Any real property benefitted by an improvement.
   SPECIAL ASSESSMENT or ASSESSMENT. A special charge fixed on property to
finance an improvement in whole or in part.
   SQUARE FOOT BASIS. The apportionment of cost of an improvement according to
the ratio the square footage of individual parcels of property bears to the
square footage of all the property.
(KRS 91A.210) (Prior Code, § 33.10)
§ 33.21 FINANCING OF IMPROVEMENTS.
   (A)   The city may not finance any improvement in whole or in part through
special assessments except as provided in this subchapter and in any applicable
statutes.
(KRS 91A.200)
   (B)   Cost of an improvement shall be apportioned equitably on a fair basis.
   (C)   The city may provide for lump sum or installment payment of
assessments or for bond or other long-term financing, and for any improvement
may afford property owners the option as to method of payment or financing.
(KRS 91A.220)
(Prior Code, § 33.11)
Statutory reference:
   Improvements; alternate methods, see KRS Ch. 107
§ 33.22 APPORTIONMENT OF COST.
   The cost of any improvement shall be apportioned on a benefits received
basis with respect to any property owned by the state, a local unit of
government, or any educational, religious, or charitable organization. The
Commission may assess the property in the same manner as for privately-owned
property or it may pay the costs so apportioned out of general revenues.
(KRS 91A.230) (Prior Code, § 33.12)
§ 33.23 COMPREHENSIVE REPORT REQUIRED.
   Before undertaking any improvements pursuant to this subchapter, the city
shall prepare a comprehensive report setting out:
   (A)   The nature of the improvement;
   (B)   The scope and the extent of the improvement, including the boundaries
or other description of the area to be assessed;
   (C)   The preliminary estimated cost of the improvement;
   (D)   The fair basis of assessment proposed;
   (E)   If financing of assessments is provided, the proposed method,
including the proposed years to maturity of any bonds to be issued in
connection with the improvement; and
   (F)   Other information as may further explain material aspects of the
improvement, assessments, or financing.
(KRS 91A.240) (Prior Code, § 33.13)
§ 33.24 PUBLIC HEARING REQUIRED.
   (A)   After preparation of the report required by §
33.23, the city shall hold at least one public hearing on the proposed
improvement at which all interested persons shall be heard.
   (B)   Notice of the hearing shall be published pursuant to KRS Ch. 424, and
mailed to each affected property owner by certified mail, return receipt
requested, and shall include:
      (1)   The nature of the improvement;
      (2)   The description of area of the improvement;
      (3)   A statement that the city proposes to finance the improvement in
whole or in part by special assessment of property and the method to be used;
      (4)   The time and place the report may be examined; and
      (5)   The time and place of the hearing.
(KRS 91A.250) (Prior Code, § 33.14)
§ 33.25 ADOPTION OF ORDINANCE; NOTICE TO AFFECTED OWNERS.
   Within 90 days of conclusion of the hearing, the city shall determine
whether to proceed with the improvement by special assessments, and if it
determines to proceed, it shall adopt an ordinance so stating and containing
all necessary terms, including the items referred to in §
33.23 and a description of all properties. Promptly upon passage, the city
shall publish the ordinance pursuant to KRS Ch. 424 and shall mail by certified
mail to each affected property owner a notice of determination to proceed with
the project, the fair basis of assessment to be utilized, the estimated cost to
the property owner, and the ratio the cost to each property owner bears to the
total cost of the entire project.
(KRS 91A.260) (Prior Code, § 33.15)
§ 33.26 AFFECTED OWNER MAY CONTEST.
   (A)   Within 30 days of the mailing of the notice provided for in §
33.25, any affected property owner may file an action in the County Circuit
Court, contesting the undertaking of the project by special assessment, the
inclusion of his or her property in the improvement, or the amount of his or
her assessment. If the action contests the undertaking of the improvement by
the special assessment method of the inclusion of the property of that property
owner, no further action on the improvement insofar as it relates to any
property owner who is a plaintiff shall be taken until the final judgment has
been entered.
   (B)   The city may proceed with the improvement with respect to any
properties whose owners have not filed or joined in an action as provided in
this section or who have contested only the amounts of their assessments, and
the provisions of the resolution shall be final and binding with respect to the
property owners except as to contested amounts of assessments. After the lapse
of time as herein provided, all actions by owners of properties are forever
barred.
(KRS 91A.270) (Prior Code, § 33.16)
§ 33.27 WHEN CITY MAY PROCEED; ASSESSMENT CONSTITUTES LIEN.
   (A)   After the passage of time for the action provided for in §
33.26, or after favorable final judgment in the action, whichever comes later,
the city may proceed with the improvement or part thereof stayed by the action,
including notice requiring payment of special assessment or installment thereon
and bonds or other method proposed to finance the improvement. The first
installment may be apportioned so that other payments will coincide with
payment of ad valorem taxes.
   (B)   The amount of any outstanding assessment or installments thereof on
any property, and accrued interest and other charges, constitutes a lien on the
property to secure payment to the bondholders or any other source of financing
of the improvement. The lien takes precedence over all other liens, whether
created prior to or subsequent to the publication of the ordinance, except a
lien for state and county taxes, general municipal taxes, and prior improvement
taxes, and is not defeated or postponed by any private or judicial sale, by any
mortgage, or by any error or mistake in the description of the property or in
the names of the owners. No error in the proceedings of the Commission shall
exempt any benefitted property from the lien for the improvement assessment,
from payment thereof, or from the penalties or interest thereon, as herein
provided.
(KRS 91A.280) (Prior Code, § 33.17)
§ 33.28 EFFECT OF ADDITIONAL PROPERTY OR CHANGE IN FINANCING.
   The city may undertake any further proceedings to carry out the improvement
or any extension or refinancing thereof, except that §§
33.23 through
33.27 apply if additional property is included in the improvement or if change
is made in the method or period of financing; but additional property may be
included in the improvement with the consent of the owner thereof without
compliance with other sections if it does not increase the cost apportioned to
any other property, or any other change may be made without this compliance, if
all property owners of the improvement consent.
(KRS 91A.290) (Prior Code, § 33.18)
§ 33.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter, for which no other
penalty is provided, shall be subject to the penalty provisions of §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person who violates any provision of §
33.04 shall be fined not less than $50 nor more than $500. In addition, any
officer who fails to comply with any of the provisions of §
33.04 shall, for each failure, be subject to a forfeiture of not less than $50
nor more than $500, in the discretion of the court, which may be recovered only
once, in a civil action brought by any resident of the city. The costs of all
proceedings, including a reasonable fee for the attorney of the resident
bringing the action, shall be assessed against the unsuccessful party.
(Prior Code, § 33.04)
CHAPTER 34: PUBLIC RECORDS
Section
General Provisions
   
34.01   Definitions
Procedures for Requesting Public Records
   
34.15   Initial request with immediate inspection
   
34.16   Referral to proper custodian
   
34.17   Public records not immediately available
   
34.18   Refusal of unreasonable requests
   
34.19   Time limitation; denial of inspection
   
34.20   Concealing or destroying records prohibited
   
34.21   Access to records relating to particular individual
   
34.22   Format of copies
   
34.23   Fees for copies
   
34.24   Misstatement of purpose prohibited
   
34.25   Online access to public records in electronic form
   
34.26   Public records protected from disclosure
   
34.27   Notification of the Attorney General
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 34.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CITY. The city government of Bancroft, Kentucky.
   COMMERCIAL PURPOSE. The direct or indirect use of any part of a public
record or records, in any form, for sale, resale, solicitation, rent, or lease
of a service, or any use by which the user expects a profit either through
commission, salary, or fee. COMMERCIAL PURPOSE shall not include:
      (1)   Publication or related use of a public record by a newspaper or
periodical;
      (2)   Use of a public record by a radio or television station in its news
or other informational programs; or
      (3)   Use of a public record in the preparation for prosecution or
defense of litigation, or claims settlement by the parties to the action, or
the attorneys representing the parties.
(KRS 61.870(4))
   CUSTODIAN.
      (1)   The official custodian or any authorized person having personal
custody and control of public records.
(KRS 61.870(6))
      (2)   The CUSTODIAN having personal custody of most of the public records
of this city is the City Clerk.
   MECHANICAL PROCESSING. Any operation or other procedure which is transacted
on a machine, and which may include, but is not limited to, a copier, computer,
recorder or tape processor, or other automated device.
(KRS 61.870(8))
   MEDIA. The physical material in or on which records may be stored or
represented, and which may include, but is not limited to, paper, microform,
disks, diskettes, optical disks, magnetic tapes, and cards.
(KRS 61.870(7))
   OFFICIAL CUSTODIAN.
      (1)   The chief administrative officer or any other officer or employee
of a public agency who is responsible for the maintenance, care, and keeping of
public records, regardless of whether the records are in his or her actual
personal custody and control.
(KRS 61.870(5))
      (2)   The OFFICIAL CUSTODIAN of this city shall be the Mayor.
   PERSON. A human being who makes a request for inspection of public records.
   PRESCRIBED FEE or FEE. The fair payment required by the city for making
copies of public records and for mailing public records, which shall not exceed
the actual cost thereof and shall not include the cost of required staff time.
   PUBLIC AGENCY.
      (1)   Every state or local government officer;
      (2)   Every state or local government department, division, bureau,
board, commission, and authority;
      (3)   Every state or local legislative board, commission, committee, and
officer;
      (4)   Every county and city governing body, council, school district
board, special district board, and municipal corporation;
      (5)   Every state or local court or judicial agency;
      (6)   Every state or local government agency, including the policy-making
board of an institution of education, created by or pursuant to state or local
statute, executive order, ordinance, resolution, or other legislative act;
      (7)   Any body created by state or local authority in any branch of
government;
      (8)   Any body which derives at least 25% of its funds expended by it in
the commonwealth from state or local authority funds;
      (9)   Any entity where the majority of its governing body is appointed by
a public agency as defined in this definition; by a member or employee of the
public agency; or by any combination thereof;
      (10)   Any board, commission, committee, subcommittee, ad hoc committee,
advisory committee, council, or agency, except for a committee of a hospital
medical staff, established, created, and controlled by a public agency as
defined in this definition; and
      (11)   Any interagency body of two or more public agencies where each
public agency is defined in this definition.
(KRS 61.870(1))
   PUBLIC RECORDS. All books, papers, maps, photographs, cards, tapes, discs,
diskettes, recordings, software, or other documentation regardless of physical
form or characteristics, which are prepared, owned, used, in the possession of,
or retained by the public agency. PUBLIC RECORDS shall not include any records
owned or maintained by or for the public agency discussed in division (8) of
the definition of PUBLIC AGENCY above that are not related to functions,
activities, programs, or operations funded by state or local authority.
(KRS 61.870(2))
   REQUEST. An oral or written application by any person to inspect public
records of the agency.
   SOFTWARE. The program code which makes a computer system function, but does
not include that portion of the program code which contains public records
exempted from inspection as provided by KRS 61.878 or specific addresses of
files, passwords, access codes, user identifications, or any other mechanism
for controlling the security or restricting access to public records in the
public agency’s computer system. SOFTWARE consists of the operating system,
application programs, procedures, routines, and subroutines such as translators
and utility programs, but does not include that material which is prohibited
from disclosure or copying by a license agreement between a public agency and
an outside entity which supplied the material to the agency.
(KRS 61.870(3))
(Prior Code, § 34.01)
PROCEDURES FOR REQUESTING PUBLIC RECORDS
§ 34.15 INITIAL REQUEST WITH IMMEDIATE INSPECTION.
   (A)   Any person desiring to inspect or copy the public records of this city
shall make a request for inspection at the office of the City Clerk during
regular office hours, except during legal holidays. The official custodian, or
the custodian acting under the authority of the official custodian, may require
a request to inspect public records to be in writing, signed by the applicant,
and with the applicant’s name printed legibly on the application. A written
request to inspect public records may be presented by hand delivery, mail, or
via facsimile, if one is available.
   (B)   If the custodian determines that a person’s request is in compliance
with this chapter and KRS 61.870 et seq., the Open Records Act, and the
requested public records are immediately available, the custodian shall deliver
the records for inspection. A person may inspect public records at the
designated office of the city during the regular office hours, or in
appropriate cases, by receiving copies of the records through the mail.
   (C)   If the public records are to be inspected at the offices of the city,
suitable facilities shall be made available in the office of the City Clerk or
in another office of the city as determined by the official custodian or
custodian for the inspection. No person shall remove original copies of public
records from the offices of the city without the written permission of the
official custodian of the record. When public records are inspected at the city
offices, the person inspecting the records shall have the right to make
abstracts and memoranda of the public records and to obtain copies of all
written public records. When copies are requested, the custodian may require
advance payment of the prescribed fee.
   (D)   Upon proper request, the city shall mail copies of the public records
to a person whose residence or principal place of business is located outside
of the county after the person precisely describes the public records which are
readily available and after the person pays in advance the prescribed fee.
(Prior Code, § 34.05) (Ord. 1, Series 2015, passed 2-12-2015)
Statutory reference:
   Right to inspection, limitations, see KRS 61.872(1) through (3)
§ 34.16 REFERRAL TO PROPER CUSTODIAN.
   If the City Clerk does not have custody or control of the public record or
records requested, the City Clerk shall notify the applicant and shall furnish
the name and location of the official custodian of the agency’s public records.
(KRS 61.872(4)) (Prior Code, § 34.06)
§ 34.17 PUBLIC RECORDS NOT IMMEDIATELY AVAILABLE.
   If the public record is in active use, in storage, or not otherwise
available, the official custodian shall immediately notify the applicant and
shall designate a place, time, and date for inspection or mailing of the public
records, not to exceed five days (excepting Saturdays, Sundays, and legal
holidays) from receipt of the application, unless a detailed explanation of the
cause is given for further delay and the place, time, and earliest date on
which the public record will be available for inspection or duplication.
(KRS 61.872(5)) (Prior Code, § 34.07)
§ 34.18 REFUSAL OF UNREASONABLE REQUESTS.
   If the application places an unreasonable burden in producing public
records, or if the custodian has reason to believe that repeated requests are
intended to disrupt other essential functions of the public agency, the
official custodian may refuse to permit inspection of the public records or
mail copies thereof; however, refusal under this section must be sustained by
clear and convincing evidence.
(KRS 61.872(6)) (Prior Code, § 34.08)
§ 34.19 TIME LIMITATION; DENIAL OF INSPECTION.
   (A)   The official custodian, upon any request for records made under this
chapter, shall determine within five days (excepting Saturdays, Sundays, and
legal holidays) after the receipt of any request whether to comply with the
request and shall notify in writing the person making the request within the
five-day period of his or her decision.
   (B)   Any agency response denying, in whole or in part, inspection of any
record shall include a statement of the specific exception authorizing the
withholding of the record and a brief explanation of how the exception applies
to the record withheld.
   (C)   The response shall be issued by the official custodian or under his or
her authority and shall constitute final agency action.
(KRS 61.880(1)) (Prior Code, § 34.09)
§ 34.20 CONCEALING OR DESTROYING RECORDS PROHIBITED.
   No official of the city shall willfully conceal or destroy any record with
the intent to violate the provisions of this chapter or these rules and
regulations.
(Prior Code, § 34.10)
§ 34.21 ACCESS TO RECORDS RELATING TO PARTICULAR INDIVIDUAL.
   Any person shall have access to any public record relating to him or her or
in which he or she is mentioned by name, upon presentation of appropriate
identification, subject to the provisions of §
34.26 of these rules and regulations.
(KRS 61.884) (Prior Code, § 34.11)
§ 34.22 FORMAT OF COPIES.
   (A)   Upon inspection, the applicant shall have the right to make abstracts
of the public records and memoranda thereof, and to obtain copies of all public
records not exempted by the terms of §
34.26. When copies are requested, the custodian may require a written request
and advance payment of the prescribed fee, including postage where appropriate.
If the applicant desires copies of public records other than written records,
the custodian of the records shall duplicate the records or permit the
applicant to duplicate the records; however, the custodian shall ensure that
the duplication will not damage or alter the original records.
(KRS 61.874(1))
   (B)   (1)   Nonexempt public records used for noncommercial purposes shall
be available for copying in either standard electronic or standard hard copy
format, as designated by the party requesting the records, where the agency
currently maintains the records in electronic format. Nonexempt public records
used for noncommercial purposes shall be copied in standard hard copy format
where agencies currently maintain records in hard copy format. Agencies are not
required to convert hard copy format records to electronic formats.
      (2)   The minimum standard format in paper form shall be defined as not
less than eight and one- half inches by 11 inches in at least one color on
white paper, or for electronic format, in a flat file electronic American
Standard Code for Information Interchange (ASCII) format. If the public agency
maintains electronic public records in a format other than ASCII, and the
format conforms to the requestor’s requirements, the public record may be
provided in this alternate electronic format for standard fees as specified by
the public agency. Any request for a public record in a form other than the
forms described in this section shall be considered a nonstandardized request.
(KRS 61.874(2))
(Prior Code, § 34.12)
§ 34.23 FEES FOR COPIES.
   (A)   Noncommercial purposes.
      (1)   The public agency may prescribe a reasonable fee for making copies
of nonexempt public records requested for use for noncommercial purposes which
shall not exceed the actual cost of reproduction, including the costs of the
media and any mechanical processing cost incurred by the public agency, but not
including the cost of staff required.
      (2)   If a public agency is asked to produce a record in a
nonstandardized format, or to tailor the format to meet the request of an
individual or a group, the public agency may at its discretion provide the
requested format and recover staff costs as well as any actual costs incurred.
(KRS 61.874(3))
   (B)   Commercial purposes.
      (1)   Unless an enactment of the General Assembly prohibits the
disclosure of public records to persons who intend to use them for commercial
purposes, and if copies of nonexempt public records are requested for
commercial purposes, the public agency may establish a reasonable fee.
      (2)   The public agency from which copies of nonexempt public records are
requested for a commercial purpose may require a certified statement from the
requestor stating the commercial purpose for which they shall be used, and may
require the requestor to enter into a contract with the agency. The contract
shall permit use of the public records for the stated commercial purpose for a
specified fee.
      (3)   The fee provided for in division (B)(1) above may be based on one
or both of the following:
         (a)   Cost to the public agency of media, mechanical processing, and
staff required to produce a copy of the public record or records; and/or
         (b)   Cost to the public agency of the creation, purchase, or other
acquisition of the public records.
(KRS 61.874(4)) (Prior Code, § 34.13)
Cross-reference:
   Fees for online access to public records, see §
34.25
§ 34.24 MISSTATEMENT OF PURPOSE PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for a person to obtain a copy of any part of a public
record for a:
   (A)   Commercial purpose, without stating the commercial purpose, if a
certified statement from the requestor was required by the public agency
pursuant to §
34.23(B)(2);
   (B)   Commercial purpose, if the person uses or knowingly allows the use of
the public record for a different commercial purpose; or
   (C)   Noncommercial purpose, if the person uses or knowingly allows the use
of the public record for a commercial purpose. A newspaper, periodical, radio,
or television station shall not be held to have used or knowingly allowed the
use of the public record for a commercial purpose merely because of its
publication or broadcast, unless it has also given its express permission for
that commercial use.
(KRS 61.874(5)) (Prior Code, § 34.14) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 34.25 ONLINE ACCESS TO PUBLIC RECORDS IN ELECTRONIC FORM.
   (A)   Online access to public records in electronic form may be provided and
made available at the discretion of the public agency. If a party wishes to
access public records by electronic means and the public agency agrees to
provide online access, a public agency may require that the party enter into a
contract, license, or other agreement with the agency, and may charge fees for
these agreements.
   (B)   Fees shall not exceed:
      (1)   The cost of physical connection to the system and reasonable cost
of computer time access charges; and
      (2)   If the records are requested for a commercial purpose, a reasonable
fee based on the factors set forth in §
34.23(B).
(KRS 61.874(6))
(Prior Code, § 34.15)
§ 34.26 PUBLIC RECORDS PROTECTED FROM DISCLOSURE.
   (A)   The following public records are excluded from the application of this
chapter and these rules and regulations and shall be subject to inspection only
upon order of a court of competent jurisdiction, except as provided in KRS
61.878(1) that no court shall authorize the inspection by any party of any
materials pertaining to civil litigation beyond that which is provided by the
Rules of Civil Procedure governing pretrial discovery:
      (1)   Public records containing information of a personal nature where
the public disclosure thereof would constitute a clearly unwarranted invasion
of personal privacy;
      (2)   Records confidentially disclosed to an agency and compiled and
maintained for scientific research. This exemption shall not, however, apply to
records the disclosure or publication of which is directed by other statute;
      (3)   (a)   Records confidentially disclosed to the agency, or required
by an agency to be disclosed to it, generally recognized as confidential or
proprietary, which if openly disclosed would permit an unfair commercial
advantage to competitors of the entity that disclosed the records;
         (b)   Records confidentially disclosed to an agency or required by an
agency to be disclosed to it, generally recognized as confidential or
proprietary, which are compiled and maintained:
            1.   In conjunction with an application for or the administration
of a loan or a grant;
            2.   In conjunction with an application for or the administration
of assessments, incentives, inducements, and tax credits as described in KRS
Ch.154;
            3.   In conjunction with the regulation of commercial enterprise,
including mineral exploration records, unpatented, secret commercially valuable
plans, appliances, formulae, or processes, which are used for the making,
preparing, compounding, treating, or processing of articles or materials which
are trade commodities obtained from a person; or
            4.   For the grant or review of a license to do business.
         (c)   The exemptions provided for in divisions (A)(3)(a) and (A)(3)(b)
above shall not apply to records, the disclosure or publication of which is
directed by statute.
      (4)   Public records pertaining to a prospective location of a business
or industry where no previous public disclosure has been made of the business’
or industry’s interest in locating in, relocating within, or expanding within
the commonwealth. This exemption shall not include those records pertaining to
applications to agencies for permits or licenses necessary to do business or to
expand business operations within the state, except as provided in division (A)
(3) above;
      (5)   Public records which are developed by an agency in conjunction with
the regulation or supervision of financial institutions, including, but not
limited to, banks, savings and loan associations, and credit unions, which
disclose the agency’s internal examining or audit criteria and related
analytical methods;
      (6)   The contents of real estate appraisals or engineering or
feasibility estimates and evaluations made by or for a public agency relative
to the acquisition of property, until such time as all of the property has been
acquired. The law of eminent domain shall not be affected by this provision;
      (7)   Test questions, scoring keys, and other examination data used to
administer a licensing examination, examination for employment, or academic
examination before the exam is given or if it is to be given again;
      (8)   Records of law enforcement agencies or agencies involved in
administrative adjudication that were compiled in the process of detecting and
investigating statutory or regulatory violations, if the disclosure of the
information would harm the agency by revealing the identity of informants not
otherwise known or by premature release of information to be used in a
prospective law enforcement action or administrative adjudication. Unless
exempted by other provisions of this chapter, public records exempted under
this provision shall be open after enforcement action is completed or a
decision is made to take no action. The exemptions provided by this division
(A)(8) shall not be used by the custodian of the records to delay or impede the
exercise of rights granted by this chapter;
      (9)   Preliminary drafts, notes, or correspondence with private
individuals, other than correspondence which is intended to give notice of
final action of a public agency;
      (10)   Preliminary recommendations and preliminary memoranda in which
opinions are expressed or policies formulated or recommended;
      (11)    All public records or information, the disclosure of which is
prohibited by federal law or regulation or state law;
      (12)   Public records or information, the disclosure of which is
prohibited or restricted or otherwise made confidential by enactment of the
General Assembly, including any information acquired by the Department of
Revenue in tax administration that is prohibited from divulgence or disclosure
under KRS 131.190;
      (13)   (a)   Public records, the disclosure of which would have a
reasonable likelihood of threatening the public safety by exposing a
vulnerability in preventing, protecting against, mitigating, or responding to a
terrorist act and limited to:
            1.   Criticality lists resulting from consequence assessments;
            2.   Vulnerability assessments;
            3.   Antiterrorism protective measures and plans;
            4.   Counterterrorism measures and plans;
            5.   Security and response needs assessments;
            6.   Infrastructure records that expose a vulnerability referred to
in this division (A)(13)(a)5. through the disclosure of the location,
configuration, or security of critical systems, including public utility
critical systems. These critical systems shall include, but not be limited to,
information technology, communication, electrical, fire suppression,
ventilation, water, wastewater, sewage, and gas systems;
            7.   The following records when their disclosure will expose a
vulnerability referred to in this division (A)(13)(a)6.: detailed drawings;
schematics; maps; or specifications of structural elements, floor plans, and
operating, utility, or security systems of any building or facility owned,
occupied, leased, or maintained by a public agency; and
            8.   Records when their disclosure will expose a vulnerability
referred to in this division (A)(13)(a)7., and that describe the exact physical
location of hazardous chemical, radiological, or biological materials.
         (b)   As used in this division (A)(13)(b), TERRORIST ACT means a
criminal act intended to:
            1.   Intimidate or coerce a public agency or all or part of the
civilian population;
            2.   Disrupt a system identified in division (A)(13)(a)5.; or
            3.   Cause massive destruction to a building or facility owned,
occupied, leased, or maintained by a public agency.
         (c)   On the same day that a public agency denies a request to inspect
a public record for a reason identified in this division (A)(13)(c), that
public agency shall forward a copy of the written denial of the request,
referred to in KRS 61.880(1), to the Executive Director of the Office for
Security Coordination and the Attorney General.
         (d)   Nothing in this division (A)(13)(d) shall affect the obligations
of a public agency with respect to disclosure and availability of public
records under state environmental, health, and safety programs.
         (e)   The exemption established in this division (A)(13)(e) shall not
apply when a member of the Kentucky General Assembly seeks to inspect a public
record identified in this division (A)(13)(e) under KRS 61.870 et seq., the
Open Records Act.
      (14)   Public or private records, including books, papers, maps,
photographs, cards, tapes, discs, diskettes, recordings, software, or other
documentation regardless of physical form or characteristics, having historic,
literary, artistic, or commemorative value accepted by the archivist of a
public university, museum, or government depository from a donor or depositor
other than a public agency. This exemption shall apply to the extent that
nondisclosure is requested in writing by the donor or depositor of such
records, but shall not apply to records the disclosure or publication of which
is mandated by another statute or by federal law.
      (15)   Records of a procurement process under KRS Chapter 45A or 56. This
exemption shall not apply after:
         (a)   A contract is awarded; or
         (b)   The procurement process is canceled without award of a contract
and there is a determination that the contract will not be resolicited;
      (16)   Client and case files maintained by the Department of Public
Advocacy or any person or entity contracting with the Department of Public
Advocacy for the provision of legal representation under KRS Chapter 31;
      (17)   Records confidently maintained by a law enforcement agency in
accordance with a wellness program, including an early intervention system;
      (18)   Communications of a purely personal nature unrelated to any
governmental function; and
      (19)   Except as provided in KRS 61.168, photographs or videos that
depict the death, killing, rape, or sexual assault of a person. However, such
photographs or videos shall be made available by the public agency to the
requesting party for viewing on the premises of the public agency, or a
mutually agreed upon location, at the request of:
         (a)   1.   Any victim depicted in the photographs or videos, his or
her immediate family, or legal representative;
            2.   Any involved insurance company or its representative; or
            3.   The legal representative of any involved party;
         (b)   Any state agency or political subdivision investigating official
misconduct; or
         (c)   A legal representative for a person under investigation for,
charged with, plead guilty to, or found guilty of a crime related to the
underlying incident. The person under investigation for, charged with, pled
guilty to, or found guilty of a crime related to the underlying incident or
their immediate family shall not be permitted to have access to the photographs
or videos.
(KRS 61.878(1))
   (B)   (1)   No exemption under this section shall be construed to prohibit
disclosure of statistical information not descriptive of any readily
identifiable person.
(KRS 61.878(2))
      (2)   In addition, if any public record contains material which is not
excepted under this section, the city shall separate the excepted and make the
nonexcepted material available for examination, subject to the possible
applicability of §
34.18.
(KRS 61.878(4))
   (C)   The provisions of this section shall in no way prohibit or limit the
exchange of public records or the sharing of information between public
agencies when the exchange is serving a legitimate governmental need or is
necessary in the performance of a legitimate government function.
(KRS 61.878(5))
   (D)   No exemption under this section shall be construed to deny, abridge,
or impede the right of a municipal employee, an applicant for employment, or an
eligible on a register to inspect and copy any record, including preliminary
and other supporting documentation, that relates to him or her. These records
shall include, but not be limited to, work plans, job performance, demotions,
evaluations, promotions, compensation, classification, reallocation, transfers,
layoffs, disciplinary actions, examination scores, and preliminary and other
supporting documentation. A city employee, applicant, or eligible shall not
have the right to inspect or copy any examination or any documents relating to
ongoing criminal or administrative investigations by any agency.
(KRS 61.878(3))
   (E)   When material is made available pursuant to a request under division
(A)(19) of this section, the public agency shall not be required to make a copy
of the recording except as provided in KRS 61.169, and the requesting parties
shall not be limited in the number of times they may view the material.
(KRS 61.878(6))
(Prior Code, § 34.16) (Ord. 2, Series 2015, passed 2-12-2015)
§ 34.27 NOTIFICATION OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL.
   The official custodian shall notify the Attorney General of any actions
filed against the city in the Circuit Court regarding the enforcement of the
Open Records Law, KRS 61.870 to 61.884.
(Prior Code, § 34.17)
CHAPTER 35: DEPARTMENTS
Section
General Provisions
   
35.001   Departments created
Department of Administration and Finance
   
35.015   Establishment
   
35.016   Purpose and powers
Police Department
   
35.030   Establishment
   
35.031   Police Chief; police officers
   
35.032   Effective date
Department of City Maintenance
   
35.045   Establishment
   
35.046   Purpose and powers
Department of Public Services
   
35.060   Establishment
   
35.061   Purpose and powers
Department of Community Outreach
   
35.075   Establishment
   
35.076   Purpose and powers
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 35.001 DEPARTMENTS CREATED.
   (A)   Pursuant to KRS 83A.140, the following Departments are created:
      (1)   Administration and Finance;
      (2)   Police;
      (3)   City Maintenance;
      (4)   Public Services; and
      (5)   Community Outreach.
   (B)   The Commissioners may hire department heads and employees or may
subcontract on an as-needed basis for work performed in each Department.
(Prior Code, § 35.01) (Ord. 2-1986, passed 4-3-1986; Ord. 3, Series 2015,
passed 3-12-2015)
Cross-reference:
   Each Commissioner to superintend specific city departments, see §
32.04
DEPARTMENT OF ADMINISTRATION AND FINANCE
§ 35.015 ESTABLISHMENT.
   There is established in the city a Department of Administration and Finance.
(Prior Code, § 35.10) (Ord. 2-1986, passed 4-3-1986)
§ 35.016 PURPOSE AND POWERS.
   The purpose and powers of the Department of Administration and Finance shall
be to conduct the administrative affairs of the city, and the powers of the
Department include:
   (A)   Preparation, creation, recording, storage, and retrieval of all city
documents;
   (B)   Maintenance of personnel policies and records;
   (C)   Preparation of all financial statements, city checks, and other forms
and functions necessary for financial operations and the City Treasury; and
   (D)   Performance of all legal services on behalf of the city.
(Prior Code, § 35.11) (Ord. 2-1986, passed 4-3-1986; Ord. 16, Series 2015,
passed 3-12-2015)
POLICE DEPARTMENT
§ 35.030 ESTABLISHMENT.
   There is hereby established a Police Department in the city.
(Prior Code, § 35.25) (Ord. 8, Series 1997, passed 12-11-1997)
§ 35.031 POLICE CHIEF; POLICE OFFICERS.
   (A)   The Police Department may consist of a Chief of Police and at least
one regular and one back-up police officer.
   (B)   The Office of Police Chief is hereby established.
   (C)   The Police Chief, if any, and all police officers shall be appointed
by the City Commission and may be removed by the City Commission, except as
tenure and terms of employment are protected by statute, ordinance, or
contract.
   (D)   No person shall be appointed or act as the Police Chief, unless such
person has taken the oath required by § 228 of the Constitution of the
commonwealth, and has provided a bond, if required, with corporate surety
authorized to transact business in the commonwealth, and conditioned upon the
performance of the duties specified herein and with the qualifications set
forth below.
   (E)   Training and experience shall consist of any combination of education,
training, and experience which provides the necessary knowledge, skills, and
abilities to perform effectively the duties of the position.
   (F)   Subject to the authority of the City Commission, the Chief of Police,
if any, shall be a peace officer and shall be responsible for the organization
and operation of the Police Department of the city, and he or she shall
supervise, direct, and control the equipment and personnel thereof as peace
officers of the city and state in the enforcement of all statutes, laws, and
ordinances thereof.
   (G)   (1)   In the absence of a Police Chief, the Commissioner designated to
have superintendence over the Police Department shall supervise, direct, and
control the equipment and personnel thereof as peace officers of the city and
state in the enforcement of all statutes, laws, and ordinances thereof.
      (2)   He or she shall not be a peace officer, and shall have primarily
administrative authority.
   (H)   The compensation of the Police Chief and all police officers shall be
in an amount to be established by City Commission by ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 35.26) (Ord. 8, Series 1997, passed 12-11-1997; Ord. 3, Series
1999, passed 6-10-1999)
§ 35.032 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This subchapter shall take effect and be in force form immediately.
(Ord. 8, Series 1997, passed 12-11-1997)
DEPARTMENT OF CITY MAINTENANCE
§ 35.045 ESTABLISHMENT.
   There is established in the city a Department of City Maintenance.
(Prior Code, § 35.40) (Ord. 2-1986, passed 4-3-1986)
§ 35.046 PURPOSE AND POWERS.
   (A)   The Department of City Maintenance shall construct, design, repair,
and maintain necessary lands, buildings, structures, and utilities (other than
sewer facilities) of the city.
   (B)   The Department of City Maintenance shall be empowered to take such
steps as are necessary to construct, design, maintain, or repair structures,
lanes, streets, sidewalks, signs, parks, easements, rights-of-way, public
utilities, and all other municipal properties of the city.
   (C)   The Department of City Maintenance shall be responsible for the
maintenance of Bancroft Lane over and above any routine maintenance provided by
the Department of City Maintenance, including, but not limited to: maintenance
and repair of the roadway; removal of debris from Bancroft Lane and right-of-
way; maintenance and repair of the fence and care of the city trees along
Bancroft Lane; and additional matters which may arise unique to Bancroft Lane.
   (D)   The City Commission shall have the power to hire such persons as
necessary to carry out its responsibilities to any and all statutory, municipal
and insurance contracting requirements.
(Prior Code, § 35.41) (Ord. 2-1986, passed 4-3-1986; Ord. 15, Series 2015,
passed 3-12-2015)
Cross-reference:
   City Engineer, see §
31.38
DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC SERVICES
§ 35.060 ESTABLISHMENT.
   There is established in the city a Department of Public Services.
(Prior Code, § 35.70) (Ord. 2-1986, passed 4-3-1986)
§ 35.061 PURPOSE AND POWERS.
   The purpose of the Department of Public Services shall be to provide certain
public services to the residents of the city. The Department shall have the
power to hire, supervise, or contract for services to the citizens such as fire
protection, cable television, waste removal, gas, water, electricity, and other
services not otherwise provided for herein which are necessary on an ongoing
basis for the health, comfort, and safety of the public. Additionally, the
Department shall have the responsibility to oversee and enforce the permitting
process for rental properties under
Chapter 113 in accordance with the terms of that chapter.
(Prior Code, § 35.71) (Ord. 2-1986, passed 4-3-1986; Ord. 4, Series 2019,
passed 6-13-2019)
DEPARTMENT OF COMMUNITY OUTREACH
§ 35.075 ESTABLISHMENT.
   There is hereby established a Department of Community Outreach in the city.
(Ord. 18, Series 2015, passed 3-12-2015)
§ 35.076 PURPOSE AND POWERS.
   The purpose and powers of the Department of Community Outreach shall be to
disseminate public information and the powers of the Department include:
   (A)   Dissemination of public information;
   (B)   Creation and maintenance of a city website;
   (C)   Preparation and organization of events hosted by the city; and
   (D)   Creation of a Policy and Procedure Manual regarding the dissemination
of public information, subject to approval by the Commission.
(Ord. 18, Series 2015, passed 3-12-2015)
CHAPTER 36: TAXATION
Section
   
36.01   Application of provisions
   
36.02   Assessment date
   
36.03   County assessment adopted
   
36.04   Levy of ad valorem tax
   
36.05   Use of revenues generated
   
36.06   Preparation of tax bills
   
36.07   When taxes become due and payable
   
36.08   Notice of due date to be published
   
36.09   Delinquent tax lien
   
36.10   Ad valorem taxes on motor vehicles
§ 36.01 APPLICATION OF PROVISIONS.
   The provisions set forth in this chapter for the assessment, levying, and
collection of city ad valorem taxes shall apply for the period commencing on
January 1 of each year and ending on December 31 of each year, being the
calendar year.
(Prior Code, § 36.01)
§ 36.02 ASSESSMENT DATE.
   January 1 of each year is hereby set as the assessment date for all real
property subject to city taxation within the corporate limits of the city.
(Prior Code, § 36.02)
§ 36.03 COUNTY ASSESSMENT ADOPTED.
   (A)   Pursuant to the authority granted in KRS 132.285, the city hereby
adopts the annual county assessment for all real and personal property situated
within the city as the basis of all ad valorem tax levies ordered or approved
by the City Commission.
   (B)   In the event that any change in the county assessment is made after
the city tax bills have been prepared, any affected city tax bills shall be
amended accordingly. Any additional taxes owing shall be due without penalty or
interest within 60 days after the date of the amended bill; and any excess
taxes shall be refunded without interest within 60 days after the date of the
amended bill.
(Prior Code, § 36.03) (Ord. 3-1988, passed 9-8-1988)
§ 36.04 LEVY OF AD VALOREM TAX.
   The city hereby levies an annual ad valorem tax on all real property at a
rate per $100 of assessed valuation as is established by annual ordinance of
the City Commission. In the event that said rate is subsequently determined by
a court of last resort to be excessive, then the city shall adopt the maximum
ad valorem rate allowed by law in lieu of said rate.
(Prior Code, § 36.04) (Ord. 3-1988, passed 9-8-1988; Ord. 4-1990, passed 8-9-
1990; Ord. 2, Series 2018, passed 6-14-2018; Ord. 5, Series 2019, passed 6-13-
2019; Ord. 2, Series 2020, passed 6-11-2020; Ord. 1, 2021 Series passed 6-10-
2021; Ord. 3, Series 2022, passed 6-9-2022; Ord. 2, Series 2023, passed 6-14-
2023; Ord. 1, Series 2024, passed 6-12-2024)
§ 36.05 USE OF REVENUES GENERATED.
   All monies collected from the taxes levied in this chapter shall be paid
into the General Fund of the city to be used for the payment of proper
expenditures as determined by the City Commission.
(Prior Code, § 36.05) (Ord. 3-1988, passed 9-8-1988)
§ 36.06 PREPARATION OF TAX BILLS.
   The City Clerk is directed to obtain from the County Property Valuation
Administrator a true copy of the county assessment of said real property and to
request said Administrator to prepare the city tax bills therefrom. Each bill
shall show the property taxed, the taxable assessment, the amount of tax due,
the dates due and payable, and the name and address of the owner. The city
shall pay to the County Property Valuation Administrator, when billed, the fee
prescribed by KRS 132.285 for said services. The City Clerk shall mail said
bills no later than September 1 of each year.
(Prior Code, § 36.06)
§ 36.07 WHEN TAXES BECOME DUE AND PAYABLE.
   (A)   All taxes, except ad valorem taxes on automobiles, shall be due and
payable according to KRS Chs. 92 and 134 as follows:
      (1)   If paid by October 15 of each year, the ad valorem (gross tax) less
a discount in the amount as established by annual ordinance of the City
Commission, shall be due; and
      (2)   If paid by December 1 of each year, the ad valorem (gross tax)
shall be due in full (no discount).
   (B)   Said taxes not paid by the due date of December 1 of each year, are
delinquent and shall be due and payable as follows:
      (1)   If paid by December 31 of that year, the full amount of the ad
valorem (gross tax), plus interest at the rate per annum established by annual
ordinance from the due date until paid, plus a penalty in the amount
established by annual ordinance, shall be due; and
      (2)   If paid after December 31 of that year, the full amount of the ad
valorem (gross tax), plus interest at the rate per annum established by annual
ordinance from the due date until paid, plus a penalty in the amount
established by annual ordinance, shall be due.
   (C)   Said taxes shall be paid to the order of “Treasurer, City of
Bancroft”; and all payments shall be delivered to the location specified by
annual ordinance of the City Commission.
(Prior Code, § 36.07) (Ord. 3-1988, passed 9-8-1988; Ord. 4-1990, passed 8-9-
1990)
§ 36.08 NOTICE OF DUE DATE TO BE PUBLISHED.
   The City Police Chief shall cause notice of the due date of said taxes to be
advertised in the “legal notices” section of the appropriate newspaper one time
only, not less than seven nor more than 21 days before the due date.
(Prior Code, § 36.08)
§ 36.09 DELINQUENT TAX LIEN.
   (A)   The city shall have a lien as provided in KRS 134.420 to secure the
payment of said taxes, interest, penalties, and any fees, commissions, charges,
and other expenses incurred in the collection of any delinquent taxes.
Collection of any delinquent taxes shall be made in a manner prescribed by law.
   (B)   The delinquent taxpayer shall also pay all costs and expenses
incidental to any action taken by the city for collection of the delinquent
tax.
   (C)   The City Clerk shall file the notice of delinquent tax lien required
by KRS 134.420 in such manner as lis pendens are filed.
(Prior Code, § 36.09) (Ord. 3-1988, passed 9-8-1988)
§ 36.10 AD VALOREM TAXES ON MOTOR VEHICLES.
   (A)   All ad valorem taxes on motor vehicles shall be collected by the
County Clerk in accordance with KRS 134.800.
   (B)   Ad valorem taxes on motor vehicles shall become due and delinquent as
set forth in KRS 134.810, and any taxes not paid by the date when they become
delinquent shall be subject to the penalty and interest specified in KRS
134.810.
(Prior Code, § 36.10)
CHAPTER 37: CODE OF ETHICS
Section
General Provisions
   
37.001   Title of chapter
   
37.002   Declaration of intent and purpose
   
37.003   Purpose and authority
   
37.004   Definitions
Standards of Conduct
   
37.015   Conflicts of interest in general
   
37.016   Conflicts of interest in contracts
   
37.017   Receipt of gifts
   
37.018   Use of city property, equipment, and personnel
   
37.019   Misuse of confidential information
Financial Disclosure
   
37.030   Who must file
   
37.031   When to file statements; amended statements
   
37.032   Form of the statement of financial interests
   
37.033   Control and maintenance of the statements of financial interests
   
37.034   Contents of the financial interests statement
   
37.035   Noncompliance with filing requirement
Nepotism
   
37.050   Nepotism prohibited
Enforcement
   
37.065   Ethics Enforcement Agent created
   
37.066   Facilities and staff
   
37.067   Power and duties of the Enforcement Agent
   
37.068   Filing and investigation of complaints
   
37.069   Notice of hearings
   
37.070   Hearing procedure
   
37.071   Appeals
   
37.072   Limitation of actions
   
37.073   Advisory opinions
   
37.074   Reprisals against persons disclosing violations prohibited
 
   
37.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 37.001 TITLE OF CHAPTER.
   This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the “City of Bancroft Code
of Ethics”.
(Prior Code, § 37.01) (Ord. 5-1994, passed 12-8-1994)
§ 37.002 DECLARATION OF INTENT AND PURPOSE.
   The City Commission declares that the proper operation of local government
requires that public officers and employees be independent and impartial; that
city policy and decisions be made through established city processes; that
public officers or employees not use public office or employment to obtain
private or personal benefit; that public officers and employees avoid action
which creates the appearance of impropriety, and that the citizens of the city
have confidence in the integrity of their local government.
(Prior Code, § 37.02) (Ord. 5-1994, passed 12-8-1994)
§ 37.003 PURPOSE AND AUTHORITY.
   (A)   It is the purpose of this chapter to provide a method of assuring that
standards of ethical conduct for officers and employees and financial
disclosure requirements for officers of the city shall be clearly established,
uniform in application, and enforceable, and to provide the officers and
employees of the city with advice and information concerning potential
conflicts of interest which might arise in the conduct of their public duties.
   (B)   It is the further purpose of this chapter to meet the requirements of
KRS 65.003 as enacted by the 1994 Kentucky General Assembly.
   (C)   This chapter is enacted under the power vested in the city by KRS
82.082 and pursuant to requirements of KRS 65.003.
(Prior Code, § 37.03) (Ord. 5-1994, passed 12-8-1994)
§ 37.004 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUSINESS. Any corporation, unincorporated association, partnership, sole
proprietorship, firm, enterprise, franchise, association, organization, self-
employed individual, holding company, joint stock company, receivership, trust,
professional service corporation, or any legal entity through which business is
conducted for profit.
   CITY. The City of Bancroft, Kentucky.
   EMPLOYEE. Any person, whether full-time or part-time, and whether paid or
unpaid, who is employed by or provides service to the city. The term EMPLOYEE
shall not include any contractor or subcontractor or any of their employees.
   ENFORCEMENT AGENT. The City Enforcement Agent created by this chapter and
vested with the responsibility of enforcing the city’s code of ethics.
   FAMILY MEMBER. A spouse, an unemancipated child residing in the officer’s or
employee’s household, or a person claimed by the officer or employee, or the
officer’s or employee’s spouse, as a dependent for tax purposes.
   OFFICER. Any person, whether full-time or part-time, and whether paid or
unpaid, who is one of the following:
      (1)   The Mayor;
      (2)   A City Commissioner;
      (3)   The City Clerk; or
      (4)   Any person who occupies a nonelected office created under KRS
83A.080.
(Prior Code, § 37.04) (Ord. 5-1994, passed 12-8-1994)
STANDARDS OF CONDUCT
§ 37.015 CONFLICTS OF INTEREST IN GENERAL.
   Every officer and employee of the city shall comply with the following
standards of conduct in divisions (A) through (C) below.
   (A)   An elected or nonelected officer or employee of the city shall not
intentionally participate in the discussion of, vote, or make a decision in his
or her official capacity on any matter:
      (1)   In which the officer or employee, or any family member, or business
associate will derive a direct monetary gain or suffer a direct monetary loss
as a result of the officer’s or employee’s vote or decision; or
      (2)   Which relates specifically to a business in which the officer or
employee owns or controls an interest of $10,000 or more, or an interest of
more than 5%.
   (B)   No officer or employee shall be deemed in violation of any provision
in this section if, by reason of the officer’s or employee’s participation,
vote, decision, action, or inaction, no financial benefit accrues to the
officer or employee, a family member, an outside employer, or business, as a
member of any business, occupation, profession, or other group, to any greater
extent than any gain could reasonably be expected to accrue to any other member
of the business, occupation, profession, or other group.
   (C)   Every officer or employee who has a prohibited financial interest
which the officer or employee believes or has reason to believe may be affected
by his or her participation, vote, decision, or other action taken within the
scope of his or her public duties shall disclose the precise nature and value
of the interest, in writing, to the governing body of the city, and the
disclosure shall be entered on the official record of the proceedings of the
governing body. The officer or employee shall refrain from taking any action
with respect to the matter that is the subject of the disclosure.
(Prior Code, § 37.20) (Ord. 5-1994, passed 12-8-1994) Penalty, see §
37.999
§ 37.016 CONFLICTS OF INTEREST IN CONTRACTS.
   (A)   No officer or employee of the city shall directly or through others
undertake, execute, hold, or enjoy, in whole or in part, any contract made,
entered into, awarded, or granted by the city, except as follows.
   (B)   The prohibition in division (A) above shall not apply to contracts
entered into before an elected officer filed as a candidate for city office,
before an appointed officer was appointed to a city office, or before an
employee was hired by the city; however, if any contract entered into by a city
officer or employee before he or she became a candidate, was appointed to
office, or was hired as an employee, is renewable after he or she becomes a
candidate, assumes the appointed office, or is hired as an employee, then the
prohibition in division (A) above shall apply to the renewal of the contract.
   (C)   The prohibition in division (A) above shall not apply if the contract
is awarded after public notice and competitive bidding, unless the officer or
employee is authorized to participate in establishing the contract
specifications, awarding the contract, or managing contract performance after
the contract is awarded. If the officer or employee has any of the authorities
set forth in the preceding sentence, then the officer or employee shall have no
interest in the contract, unless the requirements set forth in division (D)
below are satisfied.
   (D)   The prohibition in division (A) above shall not apply in any case
where the following requirements are satisfied:
      (1)   The specific nature of the contract transaction and the nature of
the officer’s or employee’s interest in the contract are publicly disclosed at
a meeting of the governing body of the city;
      (2)   The disclosure is made a part of the official record of the
governing body of the city before the contract is executed;
      (3)   A finding is made by the governing body of the city that the
contract with the officer or employee is in the best interests of the public
and the city because of price, limited supply, or other specific reasons; and
      (4)   The finding is made a part of the official record of the governing
body of the city before the contract is executed.
(Prior Code, § 37.21) (Ord. 5-1994, passed 12-8-1994) Penalty, see §
37.999
§ 37.017 RECEIPT OF GIFTS.
   No city officer or employee shall knowingly accept or solicit any valuable
gift, whether in the form of service, loan, thing, or promise, from any person,
firm, or corporation under circumstances in which it could be reasonably
inferred that the gift was intended to influence, or could reasonably be
expected to influence the officer or employee in the performance of his or her
official duties.
(Prior Code, § 37.22) (Ord. 5-1994, passed 12-8-1994) Penalty, see §
37.999
§ 37.018 USE OF CITY PROPERTY, EQUIPMENT, AND PERSONNEL.
   No officer or employee of the city shall use or permit the use of city
property (including land, vehicles, equipment, materials, and any other
property) for personal convenience or profit except when the use is available
to citizens of the city generally or is provided as a matter of city policy.
(Prior Code, § 37.23) (Ord. 5-1994, passed 12-8-1994) Penalty, see §
37.999
§ 37.019 MISUSE OF CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION.
   No officer or employee of the city shall intentionally use or disclose
information acquired in the course of his or her official duties, if the
primary purpose of the use or disclosure is to further his or her personal
financial interest or that of another person or business. Information shall be
deemed confidential, if it is not subject to disclosure pursuant to the
Commonwealth Open Records Act, KRS 61.872 to 61.884, at the time of its use or
disclosure.
(Prior Code, § 37.24) (Ord. 5-1994, passed 12-8-1994) Penalty, see §
37.999
FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE
§ 37.030 WHO MUST FILE.
   Elected city officers and candidates for city office shall file an annual
statement of financial interests with the Ethics Enforcement Agent.
(Prior Code, § 37.35) (Ord. 5-1994, passed 12-8-1994; Ord. 5-1996, passed 11-
14-1996) Penalty, see §
37.999
§ 37.031 WHEN TO FILE STATEMENTS; AMENDED STATEMENTS.
   (A)   The initial statement of financial interests required by this section
shall be filed with the Enforcement Agent, or the administrative official
designated as the custodian of its records by the Enforcement Agent, no later
than 6:00 p.m., January 30, 1995. All subsequent statements of financial
interest shall be filed no later than 6:00 p.m. on January 30 each year;
provided, that:
      (1)   Newly-elected officers shall file their initial statements 30 days
after the election;
      (2)   A candidate for city office shall file a statement no later than 30
days after the date on which the person becomes a candidate; or
      (3)   An officer appointed to fill a vacancy in an elected office shall
file an initial statement 30 days after the appointment.
   (B)   The Enforcement Agent may grant a reasonable extension of time for
filing a statement of financial interests for good cause shown.
   (C)   In the event there is a material change in any information contained
in a financial statement that has been filed with the Agent, the officer shall,
no later than 30 days after becoming aware of the material change, file an
amended statement with the Agent.
(Prior Code, § 37.36) (Ord. 5-1994, passed 12-8-1994; Ord. 5-1996, passed 11-
14-1996) Penalty, see §
37.999
§ 37.032 FORM OF THE STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL INTERESTS.
   The statement of financial interests shall be filed on a form prescribed by
the Enforcement Agent, or the administrative officer designated by the Agent.
The Agent, or the designated administrative officer, shall deliver a copy of
the form to each officer required to file the statement, by first class mail or
hand delivery, no later than December 30 of each year. In the case of the
appointed officer or candidate, the form shall be mailed or delivered as soon
as practicable after the appointment of filing for candidacy. The failure of
the Agent, or the designated administrative officer, to deliver a copy of the
form to any officer/candidate shall not relieve the officer/candidate of the
obligation to file the statement.
(Prior Code, § 37.37) (Ord. 5-1994, passed 12-8-1994; Ord. 5-1996, passed 11-
14-1996)
§ 37.033 CONTROL AND MAINTENANCE OF THE STATEMENTS OF FINANCIAL INTERESTS.
   (A)   The Enforcement Agent shall be the official custodian of the
statements of financial interests and shall have control over the maintenance
of the statements of financial interests. The statements of financial interests
shall be maintained by the Enforcement Agent, or the administrative officer
designated by the Enforcement Agent as the custodian, as public documents,
available for public inspection immediately upon filing.
   (B)   A statement of financial interests shall be retained by the Agent, or
the designated administrative officer, for a period of five years after filing;
provided, that upon the expiration of three years after a person ceases to be
an officer of the city, the Agent shall cause to be destroyed any statements of
financial interests or copies of those statements filed by the person.
(Prior Code, § 37.38) (Ord. 5-1994, passed 12-8-1994)
§ 37.034 CONTENTS OF THE FINANCIAL INTERESTS STATEMENT.
   (A)   Matters to be disclosed by all elected city officers or candidates for
office on the disclosure forms shall include:
      (1)   City office held or sought;
      (2)   Names, home addresses, and telephone numbers of city officer/
candidate and spouse;
      (3)   Occupation, business addresses, and telephone numbers of city
officer/candidate and spouse;
      (4)   The location of any real property other than the primary residence
within the city in which the city officer/candidate or spouse has an ownership
or other financial interest in excess of $1,000;
      (5)   The name of any business, of which the city officer or spouse is an
officer, director, employee, or partner, or in which the city officer or spouse
legally or beneficially owns or controls more than 5% of any outstanding stock
or has a proprietary interest, and the spouse’s position, if any, with the
business, if any such entity has engaged within the past 12 months, or which is
anticipated to have any business dealings with the city; and
      (6)   The name of any person from whom the city officer/candidate, or his
or her spouse, has derived during the previous calendar year, any income or
other financial benefit, in excess of $1,000 whereby such income or other
financial benefit was derived from business dealings with the city.
   (B)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to require any officer or
candidate to disclose any specific dollar amounts nor the names of individual
clients or customers of businesses listed as sources of income.
(Prior Code, § 37.39) (Ord. 5-1994, passed 12-8-1994; Ord. 5-1996, passed 11-
14-1996)
§ 37.035 NONCOMPLIANCE WITH FILING REQUIREMENT.
   The Enforcement Agent, or the designated administrative officer, shall
notify by certified mail each person required to file a statement of financial
interests who fails to file the statement by the due date, files an incomplete
statement, or files a statement in a form other than that prescribed by the
Agent. The notice shall specify the type of failure or delinquency, shall
establish a date by which the failure or delinquency shall be remedied, and
shall advise the person of the penalties for a violation.
(Prior Code, § 37.40) (Ord. 5-1994, passed 12-8-1994) Penalty, see §
37.999
NEPOTISM
§ 37.050 NEPOTISM PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No officer or employee of the city shall advocate, recommend, or cause
the:
      (1)   Employment;
      (2)   Appointment;
      (3)   Promotion;
      (4)   Transfer; or
      (5)   Advancement of a family member to an office or position of
employment with the city.
   (B)   No officer or employee of the city shall supervise or manage the work
of a family member.
   (C)   No officer or employee shall participate in any action relating to the
employment or discipline of a family member, except that this prohibition shall
not prevent an elected or appointed officer from voting on or participating in
the development of a budget which includes compensation for a family member;
provided, that the family member is included only as a member of a class of
persons or a group, and the family member benefits to no greater extent than
any other similarly situated member of the class or group.
   (D)   The prohibitions in this section shall not apply to any relationship
or situation that would violate the prohibition, but which existed prior to
December 8, 1994.
(Prior Code, § 37.50) (Ord. 5-1994, passed 12-8-1994) Penalty, see §
37.999
ENFORCEMENT
§ 37.065 ETHICS ENFORCEMENT AGENT CREATED.
   (A)   There is hereby created an Ethics Enforcement Agent who shall have the
authority, duties, and responsibilities as set forth in this chapter to enforce
the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   The Enforcement Agent shall be a resident of the city appointed by the
Mayor and approved by the City Commission.
   (C)   The Enforcement Agent shall serve without compensation, unless
otherwise approved by the City Commission, but shall be reimbursed for all
necessary and reasonable expenses incurred in the performance of its duties.
   (D)   Minutes shall be kept for all proceedings.
   (E)   The city reserves the right to enter into an agreement at any time
with one or more other cities or counties pursuant to the provisions of the
Interlocal Cooperation Act, KRS 65.210 et seq., for the purpose of establishing
a joint commission responsible for the provisions of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 37.60) (Ord. 5-1994, passed 12-8-1994)
§ 37.066 FACILITIES AND STAFF.
   Within the limits of the funds appropriated by the City Commission in the
annual budget, the city shall provide the Enforcement Agent, either directly or
by contract or agreement, with the facilities, materials, supplies, and staff
needed for the conduct of its business.
(Prior Code, § 37.61) (Ord. 5-1994, passed 12-8-1994)
§ 37.067 POWER AND DUTIES OF THE ENFORCEMENT AGENT.
   The Enforcement Agent shall have the following powers and duties:
   (A)   To initiate on his or her own motion, receive and investigate
complaints, hold hearings, and make findings of fact and determinations with
regard to alleged violations of the provisions of this chapter;
   (B)   To issue orders in connection with his or her investigations and
hearings requiring persons to submit in writing and under oath, reports and
answers to questions that are relevant to the proceedings, and to order
testimony to be taken by deposition before any individual designated by the
Agent who has the power to administer oaths;
   (C)   To administer oaths and to issue orders requiring the attendance and
testimony of witnesses and the production of documentary evidence relating to
an investigation or hearing being conducted by the Agent;
   (D)   To refer any information concerning violations of this chapter to the
Mayor, the City Commission, the County Attorney, or other appropriate person or
body, as necessary;
   (E)   To render advisory opinions to city officers and employees regarding
whether a given set of facts and circumstances would constitute a violation of
any provision of this chapter;
   (F)   To enforce the provisions of this chapter with regard to all officers
and employees of the city who are subject to its terms by issuing appropriate
orders and imposing penalties authorized by this chapter;
   (G)   To control and maintain, or to supervise the control and maintenance
by the designated custodian, of all statements of financial interests that are
required to be filed by this chapter and to ensure that the statements are
available for public inspection in accordance with the requirements of this
chapter and KRS 61.870 et seq., the Open Records Act;
   (H)   To develop and submit any reports regarding the conduct of its
business that may be required by the Mayor or City Commission; and/or
   (I)   To adopt rules and regulations and to take other actions, as
necessary, to implement the provisions of this chapter; provided, that the
rules, regulations, and actions are not in conflict with the provisions of this
chapter or any state or federal law.
(Prior Code, § 37.62) (Ord. 5-1994, passed 12-8-1994; Ord. 4, Series 2015,
passed 2-12-2015)
§ 37.068 FILING AND INVESTIGATION OF COMPLAINTS.
   (A)   All complaints alleging any violation of the provisions of this
chapter shall be submitted to the Enforcement Agent, or the administrative
officer designated by the Enforcement Agent. All complaints shall be in
writing, signed by the complainant, and shall meet any other requirements
established by the Enforcement Agent. The Enforcement Agent shall acknowledge
receipt of a complaint to the complainant within ten working days from the date
of receipt. The Agent shall forward within ten working days to each officer or
employee of the city who is the subject of the complaint a copy of the
complaint and a general statement of the applicable provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   Within 30 days of the receipt of a proper complaint, the Enforcement
Agent shall conduct a preliminary inquiry concerning the allegations contained
in the complaint. The Agent shall afford a person who is the subject of the
complaint an opportunity to respond to the allegations in the complaint. The
person shall have the right to be represented by counsel, to appear and be
heard under oath, and to offer evidence in response to the allegations.
   (C)   All proceedings and records relating to a preliminary inquiry being
conducted by the Enforcement Agent shall be confidential until a final
determination is made by the Agent, except:
      (1)   The Agent may turn over to the Commonwealth Attorney or County
Attorney evidence which may be used in criminal proceedings; and
      (2)   If the complainant or alleged violator publicly discloses the
existence of a preliminary inquiry, the Agent may publicly confirm the
existence of the inquiry, and, at its discretion, make public any documents
which were issued to either party.
   (D)   The Agent shall make a determination based on its preliminary inquiry
whether the complaint is within its jurisdiction and, if so, whether it alleges
a minimal factual basis to constitute a violation of this chapter. If the Agent
concludes that the complaint is outside of its jurisdiction, frivolous, or
without factual basis, the Agent shall immediately terminate the inquiry,
reduce the conclusion to writing, and transmit a copy of its decision to the
complainant and to all officers or employees against whom the complaint was
filed.
   (E)   If the Agent concludes, based upon its preliminary inquiry, that the
complaint is within its jurisdiction and contains allegations sufficient to
establish a minimal factual basis to constitute a violation, the Agent shall
notify the officer or employee who is the subject of the complaint and may:
      (1)   Due to mitigating circumstances such as, lack of significant
economic advantage or gain by the officer or employee, lack of economic loss to
the city and its taxpayers, or lack of significant impact on public confidence
in city government issue, in writing, a confidential reprimand to the officer
or employee concerning the alleged violation and provide a copy of the
confidential reprimand to the Mayor and City Commission; and
      (2)   Initiate a hearing to determine whether there has been a violation.
(Prior Code, § 37.63) (Ord. 5-1994, passed 12-8-1994) Penalty, see §
37.999
§ 37.069 NOTICE OF HEARINGS.
   If the Enforcement Agent determines that a hearing regarding allegations
contained in the complaint is necessary, the Agent shall issue an order setting
the matter for a hearing within 30 days of the date the order is issued, unless
the alleged violator petitions for and the Agent consents to a later date. The
order setting the matter for hearing, along with a copy of any pertinent
regulations of the Agent relating to the hearing shall be sent to the alleged
violator within 24 hours of the time the order setting a hearing is issued.
(Prior Code, § 37.64) (Ord. 5-1994, passed 12-8-1994)
§ 37.070 HEARING PROCEDURE.
   (A)   The Kentucky Rules of Civil Procedure and the Kentucky Rules of
Evidence shall not apply to hearings conducted by the Enforcement Agent;
however, the hearings shall be conducted in accordance with this section and in
accordance with any additional rules and regulations adopted by the Agent so as
to afford all parties the full range of due process rights required by the
nature of the proceedings.
   (B)   Prior to the commencement of the hearing, the alleged violator, or his
or her representative, shall have a reasonable opportunity to examine all
documents and records obtained or prepared by the Enforcement Agent in
connection with the matter to be heard. The Agent shall inform the alleged
violator, or his or her representative, of any exculpatory evidence in its
possession.
   (C)   All testimony in a hearing shall be taken under oath, administered by
the presiding officer. All parties shall have the right to call and examine
witnesses, to introduce exhibits, to cross-examine witnesses, to submit
evidence, and to be represented by counsel. All witnesses shall have the right
to be represented by counsel.
   (D)   Any person whose name is mentioned during the hearing and who may be
adversely affected thereby may appear personally before the Agent, with or
without counsel, to give a statement regarding the adverse mention, or may file
a written statement regarding the adverse mention for incorporation into the
record of the proceeding.
   (E)   All hearings of the Enforcement Agent shall be public.
   (F)   After the conclusion of the hearing, the Enforcement Agent shall, as
soon as practicable, begin deliberation for the purpose of reviewing the
evidence before it and making a determination whether a violation of this
chapter has been proven. Within 30 days after completion of the hearing, the
Agent shall issue a written report of its findings and conclusions.
   (G)   If the Enforcement Agent concludes in its report that no violation of
this chapter has occurred, it shall immediately send written notice of this
determination to the officer or employee who was the subject of the complaint
and to the party who filed the complaint.
   (H)   If the Enforcement Agent concludes in its report that in consideration
of the evidence produced at the hearing there is clear and convincing proof of
a violation of this chapter, the Agent may:
      (1)   Issue an order requiring the violator to cease and desist the
violation;
      (2)   In writing, publicly reprimand the violator for the violations and
provide a copy of the reprimand to the Mayor and City Commission;
      (3)   In writing, recommend to the Mayor and the City Commission that the
violator be sanctioned as recommended by the Agent, which may include a
recommendation for discipline, dismissal, or removal from office;
      (4)   Issue an order requiring the violator to pay a civil penalty of not
less than $50 and not more than $500; or
      (5)   Refer evidence of criminal violations of this chapter or state laws
to the County Attorney or Commonwealth Attorney of the jurisdiction for
prosecution.
(Prior Code, § 37.65) (Ord. 5-1994, passed 12-8-1994)
§ 37.071 APPEALS.
   Any person who is found guilty of a violation of any provision of this
chapter by the Enforcement Agent may appeal the finding to the County Circuit
Court within 30 days after the date of the final action by the Enforcement
Agent by filing a petition with the Court against the Agent. The Agent shall
transmit to the Clerk of the Court all evidence considered by the Agent at the
public hearing.
(Prior Code, § 37.66) (Ord. 5-1994, passed 12-8-1994)
§ 37.072 LIMITATION OF ACTIONS.
   Except when the period of limitation is otherwise established by state law,
an action for a violation of this chapter must be brought within one year after
the violation is discovered.
(Prior Code, § 37.67) (Ord. 5-1994, passed 12-8-1994)
§ 37.073 ADVISORY OPINIONS.
   (A)   The Enforcement Agent may render advisory opinions concerning matters
under its jurisdiction, based upon real or hypothetical facts and
circumstances, upon its own initiative, or when requested by any officer or
employee of the city who is covered by this chapter.
   (B)   An advisory opinion shall be requested in writing and shall state
relevant facts and ask specific questions. The request for an advisory opinion
shall remain confidential unless confidentiality is waived, in writing, by the
requester.
   (C)   The Enforcement Agent may adopt regulations, consistent with KRS
61.870 et seq., the Open Records Act, to establish criteria under which it will
issue confidential advisory opinions. All other advisory opinions shall be
public documents, except that before an advisory opinion is made public, it
shall be modified so that the identity of any person associated with the
opinion shall not be revealed.
   (D)   The confidentiality of an advisory opinion may be waived either:
      (1)   In writing by the person who requested the opinion; or
      (2)   By the Agent, if a person makes or purports to make public the
substance or any portion of an advisory opinion requested by or on behalf of
the person. The Agent may make public the advisory opinion request and related
materials.
   (E)   A written advisory opinion issued by the Agent shall be binding on the
Agent in any subsequent proceeding concerning the facts and circumstances of
the particular case if no intervening facts or circumstances arise which would
change the opinion of the Agent if they had existed at the time the opinion was
rendered; however, if any fact determined by the Agent to be material was
omitted or misstated in the request for an opinion, the Agent shall not be
bound by the opinion.
   (F)   A written advisory opinion issued by the Agent shall be admissible in
the defense of any criminal prosecution or civil proceeding for violations of
this chapter for actions taken in reliance on that opinion.
(Prior Code, § 37.68) (Ord. 5-1994, passed 12-8-1994; Ord. 5, Series 2015,
passed 2-12-2015)
§ 37.074 REPRISALS AGAINST PERSONS DISCLOSING VIOLATIONS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No officer or employee of the city shall subject to reprisal, or
directly or indirectly use, or threaten to use, any official authority or
influence in any manner whatsoever which tends to discourage, restrain, deter,
prevent, interfere with, coerce, or discriminate against any person who in good
faith reports, discloses, divulges, or otherwise brings to the attention of the
Agent or officer of the city or the commonwealth any facts or information
relative to an actual or suspected violation of this chapter.
   (B)   This section shall not be construed as prohibiting disciplinary or
punitive action if an officer or employee of the city discloses information
which he or she knows:
      (1)   To be false or which he or she discloses with reckless disregard
for its truth or falsity;
      (2)   To be exempt from required disclosure under the provisions of the
Commonwealth Open Records Act, KRS 61.870 to 61.884; or
      (3)   Is confidential under any other provision of law.
(Prior Code, § 37.69) (Ord. 5-1994, passed 12-8-1994)
§ 37.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Except when another penalty is specifically set forth in this chapter,
any officer or employee of the city who is found by the Enforcement Agent to
have violated any provision of this chapter shall be deemed guilty of a civil
offense and may be subject to a civil fine imposed by the Agent of not less
than $50 and not more than $500, which may be recovered by the city in a civil
action in the nature of debt if the offender fails to pay the penalty within a
prescribed period of time.
   (B)   In addition to all other penalties which may be imposed under this
chapter, any officer or employee of the city who is found by the Enforcement
Agent to have violated any provision of this chapter shall forfeit to the city
an amount equal to the economic benefit or gain which the officer or employee
is determined by the Agent to have realized as a result of the violation. The
amount of any forfeiture may be recovered by the city in a civil action in the
nature of debt, if the offender fails to pay the amount of the forfeiture
within a prescribed period of time.
   (C)   In addition to all other penalties which may be imposed under this
chapter, a finding by the Enforcement Agent that an officer or employee of the
city is guilty of a violation of this chapter shall be sufficient cause for
removal, suspension, demotion, or other disciplinary action by the Mayor of the
city, or by any other officer having the power of removal or discipline. Any
action to remove or discipline any officer or employee for a violation of this
chapter shall be taken in accordance with all applicable ordinances and
regulations of the city and all applicable laws of the commonwealth.
(Prior Code, § 37.99)
   (D)   Any violation of §
37.016 shall constitute a Class A misdemeanor, and upon conviction, the court
may void any contract entered into in violation of §
37.016. Additionally, a violation of §
37.016 shall be grounds for removal from office or employment with the city in
accordance with any applicable provisions of state law and ordinances, rules,
or regulations of the city.
(Prior Code, § 37.21)
   (E)   (1)   Any person who fails or refuses to file the statement or who
fails or refuses to remedy a deficiency in the filing identified in the notice
under §
37.035 above within the time period established in the notice shall be guilty
of a civil offense and shall be subject to a civil fine imposed by the Agent in
an amount not to exceed $25 per day, up to a maximum total civil fine of $500.
Any civil fine imposed by the Agent under this section may be recovered by the
city in a civil action in the nature of debt if the offender fails or refuses
to pay the penalty within a prescribed period of time.
      (2)   Any person who intentionally files a statement of financial
interests which he or she knows to contain false information or intentionally
omits required information shall be guilty of a Class A misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 37.40)
   (F)   Pursuant to §
37.068, any person who knowingly files with the Board a false complaint
alleging a violation of any provision of this chapter by an officer or employee
of the city shall be guilty of a Class A misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 37.63) (Ord. 5-1994, passed 12-8-1994)
CHAPTER 38: PREVAILING WAGES OF CONSTRUCTION CONTRACTS
Section
   
38.01   County prevailing wage ordinance adopted by reference
§ 38.01 COUNTY PREVAILING WAGE ORDINANCE ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The county prevailing wage ordinance is hereby adopted and incorporated as
part of this code of ordinances as fully as if set out at length herein.
(Ord. 12, Series 2002, passed 3-12-2002)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   GARBAGE
CHAPTER 50: GARBAGE
Section
General Provisions
   
50.01   Definitions
   
50.02   Depositing, dumping, or accumulating garbage
   
50.03   Depositing or accumulating junk
Collection
   
50.15   Collection service
   
50.16   Trash to be placed at curb
   
50.17   Persons delinquent not to place trash for collection
   
50.18   Container specifications
Recyclable Materials
   
50.30   Placement; recyclable materials for collection
   
50.31   Unlawful removal of recyclable materials
   
50.32   Removal of recyclable materials
 
   
50.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 50.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   RESIDENTIAL UNIT. Single-family dwelling.
   RUBBISH, TRASH, or REFUSE. Includes all other waste material not included as
WASTE or GARBAGE except for motor vehicles and parts; building materials;
concrete; tree limbs, branches, or roots not in bundles less than four feet;
tires; and furniture. These items are deemed to be JUNK.
   WASTE or GARBAGE. Includes refuse of animals, fruit or vegetable matter,
kitchen, and household waste, paper, and food containers.
(Prior Code, § 50.01)
§ 50.02 DEPOSITING, DUMPING, OR ACCUMULATING GARBAGE.
   It shall be unlawful to deposit or permit to accumulate any waste, trash, or
garbage of any kind or nature on any public street, alley, or other public
property within the city, or upon any private property within the city, except
as provided elsewhere herein in preparation for collection.
(Prior Code, § 50.02) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.03 DEPOSITING OR ACCUMULATING JUNK.
   All matter not constituting waste, rubbish, trash, refuse, or garbage, shall
be deemed to be junk. It shall be unlawful for any person to deposit or permit
to accumulate or dump any matter deemed to be junk on any public street, alley,
or any other public property within the city or upon any private property
within the city.
(Prior Code, § 50.03) Penalty, see §
50.99
COLLECTION
§ 50.15 COLLECTION SERVICE.
Editor’s Note:
   Garbage and refuse service for the city is performed by independent
contractors under a franchise agreement with the city.
(Prior Code, § 50.15)
§ 50.16 TRASH TO BE PLACED AT CURB.
   Occupants of all residential units shall place the trash for collection at
the curb in front of the residential unit no earlier than noon on the day prior
to the day scheduled for collection at that residential unit. The receptacle,
of the type designated hereafter, shall be removed from the curb and returned
to the premises of the residential unit prior to midnight on the day of
collection.
(Prior Code, § 50.16) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.17 PERSONS DELINQUENT NOT TO PLACE TRASH FOR COLLECTION.
   It shall be unlawful for owners or occupants who are delinquent in the
payment of the waste collection assessment to place waste or waste containers
containing waste at the curb for collection. This action by the owner or
occupant of the residential unit shall subject the owner or occupant to
prosecution for theft of services.
(Prior Code, § 50.17) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.18 CONTAINER SPECIFICATIONS.
   All waste shall be placed for collection in standard (not to exceed 35
gallons) metal or plastic garbage cans with lids and handles for carrying, or
placed in plastic trash bags made of heavy plastic which must be secured
tightly and be of sufficient thickness and strength to prevent the contents
enclosed from leaking or tearing under normal handling.
(Prior Code, § 50.18) Penalty, see §
50.99
RECYCLABLE MATERIALS
§ 50.30 PLACEMENT; RECYCLABLE MATERIALS FOR COLLECTION.
   (A)   Recyclable materials placed at a designated site, or edge of a public
street or dedicated right-of- way, in a specially designated container, for the
purpose of collecting newsprint, glass, aluminum containers, bi-metal
containers, plastic milk jugs, plastic two-liter bottles, and such other
recyclable materials as may hereafter be designated by the city as recyclable
materials, will be collected by the authorized agent of the city.
   (B)   Placing recyclable materials in the designated container, in the
specified location, shall be deemed to vest title to the material in the city.
Non-recyclable material will not be collected and will not become the property
of the city.
(Prior Code, § 50.30) (Ord. 1-1990, passed 7-12-1990)
§ 50.31 UNLAWFUL REMOVAL OF RECYCLABLE MATERIALS.
   No person shall remove any recyclable materials from the designated
container, or remove the container itself, without the content of the Mayor or
the member of the City Commission who has been designated to oversee the
Recycling and Trash Removal Program.
(Prior Code, § 50.31) (Ord. 1-1990, passed 7-12-1990)
§ 50.32 REMOVAL OF RECYCLABLE MATERIALS.
   No person shall remove any recyclable materials from the designated
container, or remove the container itself, without the content of the Mayor or
the member of the City Commission who has been designated to oversee the
Recycling and Trash Removal Program.
(Prior Code, § 50.32) (Ord. 1-1990, passed 7-12-1990) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, firm, or corporation violating any provision of this
chapter not otherwise provided for with another penalty shall, upon conviction,
be fined not more than $500 for each offense. A separate offense shall be
deemed committed on each day during or on which a violation occurs or
continues.
   (B)   Any person, corporation, or firm violating any provision of §
50.31, upon conviction thereof, shall be guilty of a violation and fined not
less than $10 nor more than $250 per violation. Each instance of unauthorized
removal of recyclable materials shall be deemed and construed as a separate
offense.
(Prior Code, § 50.99) (Ord. 1-1990, passed 7-12-1990)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
71.   TRAFFIC RULES
      
72.   PARKING REGULATIONS
      
73.   BICYCLES AND MOTORCYCLES
CHAPTER 70: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
General Regulations
   
70.01   Definitions
   
70.02   Required obedience to traffic directions
   
70.03   Powers and duties of Police Department
   
70.04   Authority for enforcement
   
70.05   Temporary regulations
Traffic-Control Devices
   
70.20   Signal legends
   
70.21   Establishment and maintenance of traffic-control devices
   
70.22   Obedience to signals
   
70.23   Interference with signals
   
70.24   Unauthorized signals or markings
   
70.25   Device to be legible and in proper position
   
70.26   Temporary disregard of devices by police officer
 
   
70.99   Penalty
GENERAL REGULATIONS
§ 70.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this title, the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLES. Vehicles of the Fire Department or Police
Department, vehicles of the Commonwealth Attorney’s Office when on official
business, and ambulances on an authorized emergency run.
   BOULEVARD. Any legally designated street at which cross traffic is required
to stop before entering or crossing the BOULEVARD.
   BUSINESS DISTRICT. Any portion of any street between two consecutive
intersections in which 50% or more of the frontage on either side of the street
is used for business purposes.
   CROSSWALK. The portion of the roadway included within the extension of the
sidewalk across any intersection, and other portions of the roadway between two
intersections that may be legally designated as crossing places and marked by
stanchions, paint lines, or otherwise.
   CURB. The boundary of that portion of the street used for vehicles, whether
marked by curbstones or not.
   INTERSECTION. That part of the public way embraced within the extensions of
the street lines of two or more streets which join at an angle, whether or not
one street crosses the other.
   OFFICIAL TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES. All signs, signals, warnings, directions,
markings, and devices placed or erected or maintained by authority of the City
Commission.
   ONE-WAY STREET. A street on which vehicles are permitted to move in one
direction only.
   OPERATOR. Every person who is in actual physical control of the guidance,
starting, and stopping of a vehicle.
   PARK. When applied to vehicles, to leave a vehicle standing, whether
occupied or not, for a period of time longer than is necessary to receive or
discharge passengers or property.
   PEDESTRIAN. Any person afoot.
   PLAY STREET. Any street or portion thereof so designated by the City
Commission and reserved as a play area for children, from which all traffic is
barred, except vehicles to and from abutting properties.
   POLICE DEPARTMENT. The Police Department or other persons or agency
authorized to perform the duties of §
70.03, or any other acts necessary to implement and enforce this traffic code.
   PUBLIC WAY. The entire width between property lines of every way, dedicated
passway, or street set aside for public travel, except bridle paths and
footpaths.
   REVERSE TURN. To turn a vehicle on any street in such a manner as to proceed
in the opposite direction.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY. The privilege of the immediate and preferential use of the
street.
   ROADWAY. That portion of any street, improved, designated, or ordinarily
used for vehicular travel.
   SIDEWALK. That portion of the street between the curb and the property line
intended for the use of pedestrians.
   STOPPING. As applied to vehicles, to stop a vehicle longer than is actually
necessary to receive or discharge passengers.
   STREET. Every public way, including alleys.
   TRAFFIC. Pedestrians, ridden or herded animals, vehicles, buses, and other
conveyances, individually or collectively, while using any street for the
purpose of travel.
   VEHICLE. Every device in, on, or by which any person or property is or may
be transported or drawn on any street, except devices moved by human power or
used exclusively on stationary rails or tracks.
(Prior Code, § 70.01)
§ 70.02 REQUIRED OBEDIENCE TO TRAFFIC DIRECTIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to fail or refuse to comply with
any lawful order, signal, or direction given by a uniformed police officer, or
to fail or refuse to comply with any of the traffic regulations of this traffic
code.
   (B)   The provisions of this traffic code shall apply to the driver of any
vehicle owned or used in the service of the U.S. government, this state,
county, or city, and it shall be unlawful for any driver to violate any of the
provisions of this traffic code, except as otherwise permitted in this traffic
code or by state statute.
   (C)   Every person propelling any pushcart or riding a bicycle or an animal
on any roadway, and every person driving any animal on any roadway, and every
person driving any animal-drawn vehicle shall be subject to the provisions of
this traffic code applicable to the driver of any vehicle, except those
provisions of this traffic code which by their very nature can have no
application.
(Prior Code, § 70.02) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.03 POWERS AND DUTIES OF POLICE DEPARTMENT.
   It shall be the duty of the Police Department to direct all traffic in
conformance with this traffic code and to enforce the traffic regulations as
set forth in this traffic code, to make arrest for traffic violations, to
investigate accidents, and to cooperate with other officers of the city in the
administration of the traffic laws, and in developing ways and means to improve
traffic conditions.
(Prior Code, § 70.03)
§ 70.04 AUTHORITY FOR ENFORCEMENT.
   Authority to direct and enforce all traffic regulations of this city in
accordance with the provisions of this traffic code and to make arrests for
traffic violations is given to the Police Department, and, except in case of
emergency, it shall be unlawful for any other person to direct or attempt to
direct traffic by voice, hand, whistle, or any other signal.
(Prior Code, § 70.04) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.05 TEMPORARY REGULATIONS.
   When required for the convenience and safety of the public and to alleviate
unusual traffic problems, the City Commission or any authorized city official
shall, at his or her discretion, have authority to impose traffic regulations
as he or she may deem necessary for temporary periods not to exceed two weeks.
If these temporary regulations are necessary for a period longer than two
weeks, the City Clerk shall be notified in writing of the extended order.
(Prior Code, § 70.05)
TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES
§ 70.20 SIGNAL LEGENDS.
   Whenever traffic is regulated or controlled exclusively by a traffic-control
sign or signs exhibiting the words “Go”, “Caution”, or “Stop”, or exhibiting
different colored lights for purposes of traffic control, the following colors
only shall be used, and these terms and lights shall indicate and be obeyed as
follows.
   (A)   Green alone or “Go”. Vehicular traffic facing the signal may proceed
straight through or turn right or left unless a sign at that place prohibits
either turn; however, vehicular traffic shall yield the right-of-way to other
vehicles and to pedestrians lawfully within the intersection at the time the
signal is exhibited.
   (B)   Steady yellow alone or “Caution” when shown following the green or
“Go” signal. Vehicular traffic facing a steady yellow signal is thereby warned
that the related green movement is being terminated or that a red indication
will be exhibited immediately thereafter when vehicular traffic shall not enter
the intersection. Vehicular traffic facing a steady yellow signal may enter and
clear the intersection.
   (C)   Red alone or double red or “Stop”. Vehicular traffic facing the signal
shall stop before entering the nearest crosswalk at an intersection or at
another point as may be indicated by a clearly visible line, and shall remain
standing until green or “go” is shown alone.
   (D)   Flashing red alone. Vehicular traffic facing the signal shall stop
before entering the nearest crosswalk at an intersection or at another point as
may be indicated by a clearly visible line, and shall not again proceed until
it can do so without danger.
   (E)   Flashing amber alone. Vehicular traffic facing the signal shall reduce
its speed and proceed cautiously across the intersection controlled by the
signal.
   (F)   “Yield right-of-way”. Vehicular traffic facing the “yield right-of-
way” sign shall bear the primary responsibility of safely entering the primary
intersecting or merging right-of-way. All traffic facing the sign shall yield
the right-of-way to all vehicles and pedestrians within the primary
intersecting or merging right-of-way. No vehicle facing a “yield right-of-way”
sign shall enter the merging or intersecting right-of-way at a speed in excess
of 15 mph, except that this speed limit shall not apply to vehicles entering an
expressway.
   (G)   Lane lights. When lane lights are installed over any street for the
purpose of controlling the direction of flow of traffic, vehicular traffic
shall move only in traffic lanes over which green arrows appear; however, when
flashing amber lights appear above a lane, all left turns shall be made from
that lane. Where red arrows appear above the lanes, vehicles shall not move
against them. If flashing amber lights show above a lane, that lane shall be
used only for passing and for left turns unless a sign at that place prohibits
the turn.
(Prior Code, § 70.15) Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Traffic-control signals, see KRS 189.338
§ 70.21 ESTABLISHMENT AND MAINTENANCE OF TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES.
   The city shall establish and maintain all official traffic-control devices
necessary within the city. All traffic-control devices, including signs, shall
be employed to indicate one particular warning or regulation, shall be uniform,
and as far as possible shall be placed uniformly. All traffic-control devices
and signs shall conform to required state specifications.
(Prior Code, § 70.16)
§ 70.22 OBEDIENCE TO SIGNALS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the driver of any vehicle to disobey the
signal of any official traffic- control device placed in accordance with the
provisions of this traffic code or of a traffic barrier or sign erected by any
of the public departments or public utilities of the city, or any electric
signal, gate, or watchman at railroad crossings, unless otherwise directed by a
police officer; however, the type and the right to or necessity for the barrier
or sign must be approved by the city.
   (B)   The sign, signal, marking, or barrier shall have the same authority as
the personal direction of a police officer.
(Prior Code, § 70.17) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.23 INTERFERENCE WITH SIGNALS.
   No person shall, without authority, attempt to or in fact alter, deface,
injure, knock down, or remove any official control device or any railroad sign
or signal, or any inscription, shield, or insignia thereon, or any part
thereof.
(Prior Code, § 70.18) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.24 UNAUTHORIZED SIGNALS OR MARKINGS.
   (A)   (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, maintain, or
display on or in view of any street any unauthorized sign, signal, marking, or
device which purports to be or is an imitation of or resembles an official
traffic device or railroad sign or signal which attempts or purports to direct
the movement of traffic, or which conceals or hides from view or interferes
with the effectiveness of any official control device or any railroad sign or
signal.
      (2)   No person shall place or maintain, nor shall any public authority
permit on any street, any traffic sign, signal, or any commercial advertising.
      (3)   Nothing in this section shall be construed as restricting any
public department or public utility of the city in any emergency or temporarily
from marking or erecting any traffic barrier or sign whose placing has been
approved by the city.
   (B)   Every prohibited sign, signal, or marking is declared to be a public
nuisance and the city is empowered forthwith to remove it or cause it to be
removed.
(Prior Code, § 70.19) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.25 DEVICE TO BE LEGIBLE AND IN PROPER POSITION.
   No provision of this traffic code for which signs or any other traffic-
control device is required shall be enforceable against an alleged violator if
at the time and place of the alleged violation, the required device was not in
proper position and sufficiently legible to be seen by an ordinarily observant
person.
(Prior Code, § 70.20)
§ 70.26 TEMPORARY DISREGARD OF DEVICES BY POLICE OFFICER.
   In an emergency, any police officer may, at his or her discretion, disregard
traffic-control lights or signals or established regulations in order to
facilitate the movement of traffic.
(Prior Code, § 70.21)
§ 70.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who violates any provision of this traffic code where no other
penalty is specifically provided shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be
fined not less than $20 nor more than $500.
(Prior Code, § 70.99)
CHAPTER 71: TRAFFIC RULES
Section
Operation Generally
   
71.01   Obstructing traffic
   
71.02   Reverse or U-turns
   
71.03   Backing vehicles
   
71.04   Vehicles crossing sidewalks
   
71.05   Speed limit
   
71.06   Trucks and slow-moving vehicles
   
71.07   Required lights
   
71.08   Vehicle load limits
Accidents
   
71.20   Duty of operator
   
71.21   Accident report
Prohibitions
   
71.35   Reckless driving; injury to streets
   
71.36   Right-of-way of emergency vehicles; following emergency vehicles;
driving over fire hose
   
71.37   Smoke emission; noise
   
71.38   Glaring lights
Parades
   
71.50   Definitions
   
71.51   Permit required
   
71.52   Application for permit
   
71.53   Standards for issuance of permit
   
71.54   Notice of rejection of permit
   
71.55   Appeal procedure when permit denied
   
71.56   Alternative permit
   
71.57   Notice to city and other officials when permit issued
   
71.58   Contents of permit
   
71.59   Duties of permittee
   
71.60   Public conduct during parades
   
71.61   Revocation of permit
 
   
71.99   Penalty
OPERATION GENERALLY
§ 71.01 OBSTRUCTING TRAFFIC.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to operate any vehicle or permit it to remain
standing in any street in such a manner as to create an obstruction thereof.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to enter any
intersection or crosswalk unless there is sufficient space on the other side of
the intersection or crosswalk to accommodate the vehicle without obstructing
the passage of other vehicles or pedestrians, notwithstanding the indication of
any traffic-control signal which may be located at the intersection or
crosswalk.
   (C)   Any intersection deemed by the city to be of special or critical
importance to the movement of traffic shall be marked in a distinctive manner
in order to indicate its importance. Should the operator of any vehicle enter
any intersection so marked when there is insufficient room on the other side of
the intersection to accommodate the vehicle, the indication of any traffic-
control signal notwithstanding, he or she shall be deemed to have violated this
division (C) rather than division (B) above.
(Prior Code, § 71.01) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.02 REVERSE OR U-TURNS.
   The operator of any vehicle shall not turn the vehicle so as to proceed in
the opposite direction unless the movement can be made in safety without
interfering with other traffic.
(Prior Code, § 71.02) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.03 BACKING VEHICLES.
   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to back the vehicle at
any intersection for the purpose of executing a turning movement. A vehicle
from any parking position shall be backed by the operator in such manner as to
proceed on the same side of the roadway in the lawful direction of travel.
(Prior Code, § 71.03) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.04 VEHICLES CROSSING SIDEWALKS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to drive within
any sidewalk space except at a permanent or temporary driveway or by special
permit from the City Commission or any authorized city official.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to drive the
vehicle out of any alley, driveway, building, or lot and across a sidewalk, or
its extension across the alley, unless the vehicle has been brought to a
complete stop immediately prior to crossing the sidewalk or its extension. Upon
entering the roadway from the alley, driveway, or building, the operator shall
yield the right-of-way to all vehicles approaching on the roadway. The operator
of any vehicle intending to cross a sidewalk and turn into an alley from the
roadway may do so at low speed and with caution.
(Prior Code, § 71.04) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.05 SPEED LIMIT.
   No operator of any vehicle upon any street of the city shall drive at a
greater speed than is reasonable or prudent, having regard for the traffic, the
use of the highways, and the prevailing conditions; however, the maximum rate
of speed at any time shall be 35 mph, unless otherwise specifically established
by the city or the state.
(KRS 189.390) (Prior Code, § 71.05) (Ord. 4-1977, passed 3-3-1977) Penalty, see
§
71.99
§ 71.06 TRUCKS AND SLOW-MOVING VEHICLES.
   The operator of any vehicle moving slowly upon a city street or highway
shall keep that vehicle as closely as practicable to the right-hand boundary of
the street or highway, allowing more swiftly moving vehicles reasonably free
passage to the left, unless signage or markings indicate otherwise.
(KRS 189.300(2)) (Prior Code, § 71.06) (Ord. 4-1977, passed 3-3-1977) Penalty,
see §
71.99
§ 71.07 REQUIRED LIGHTS.
   (A)   All motor vehicles, motorcycles, motor-driven cycles, mopeds, and
bicycles shall display headlights, taillights, and the like in accordance with
KRS 189.040, 189.050, 189.055, 189.060, and 189.287.
   (B)   Any person, firm, or corporation violating the provisions of this
section shall be fined as set forth in §
71.99.
(Prior Code, § 71.07) (Ord. 4-1977, passed 3-3-1977) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.08 VEHICLE LOAD LIMITS.
   (A)   A person shall not operate on any highway, except those highways
designated by the Secretary of Transportation under the provisions of KRS
189.222, or those locally maintained highways under the provisions of KRS
189.222(11) or 189.230(4), any of the following trucks, trailers, manufactured
homes, or vehicles:
      (1)   Any motor truck, semitrailer, trailer, manufactured home, or
vehicle which exceeds 11-1/2 feet in height or 96 inches in width, including
any part of the body or load;
      (2)   Any motor truck, except a semitrailer truck, which exceeds 26-1/
2 feet in length, including any part of the body or load;
      (3)   Any semitrailer truck which exceeds 30 feet in length, including
any part of the body or load;
      (4)   Any truck, semitrailer truck, or truck and trailer unit which
exceeds 36,000 pounds gross weight, including the load; or
      (5)   Any truck, semitrailer truck, or tractor-tailor unit which exceeds
a gross weight equal to the sum of 600 pounds per inch in the combined width of
the tires upon which the vehicle may be propelled but not more than 36,000
pounds.
   (B)   Notwithstanding the provisions of this section, any truck hauling
building materials under KRS 189.2226, or to a road construction project on a
highway rated less than the maximum weight provided above, may haul up to
80,000 pounds gross weight, including the load, without a permit.
(KRS 189.221) (Prior Code, § 71.08) (Ord. 6, Series 2015, passed 2-12-2015)
Penalty, see §
71.99
Statutory reference:
   Increased weight limits on state maintained highways, see KRS 189.222(1)
ACCIDENTS
§ 71.20 DUTY OF OPERATOR.
   It shall be the duty of the owner of, operator of, or passenger in any motor
vehicle which is involved in an accident, in which any person is injured or
property is damaged, to stop immediately and ascertain the extent of the injury
or damage and render any assistance as may be needed.
(Prior Code, § 71.15) Penalty, see §
71.99
Statutory reference:
   Accident involving death or serious injury; penalty for not reporting, see
KRS 189.990
   Duty in case of accident, see KRS 189.580
§ 71.21 ACCIDENT REPORT.
   The operator, owner, or passenger involved in an accident resulting in the
injury or death of any person, or an accident in which property is damaged,
shall immediately report the accident or property damage to the Police
Department.
(Prior Code, § 71.16) Penalty, see §
71.99
PROHIBITIONS
§ 71.35 RECKLESS DRIVING; INJURY TO STREETS.
   (A)   The operator of any vehicle upon a highway shall operate the vehicle
in a careful manner, with regard for the safety and convenience of pedestrians
and other vehicles upon the highway.
   (B)   No person shall willfully operate any vehicle on any highway in such a
manner as to injure the highway.
(KRS 189.290) (Prior Code, § 71.25) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.36 RIGHT-OF-WAY OF EMERGENCY VEHICLES; FOLLOWING EMERGENCY VEHICLES;
DRIVING OVER FIRE HOSE.
   (A)   Upon the approach of an emergency vehicle equipped with and operating
one or more flashing, rotating, or oscillating red or blue lights visible under
normal conditions from a distance of 500 feet to the front of the vehicle; or
when the driver is giving audible signal by siren, exhaust whistle, or bell,
the driver of every other vehicle shall yield the right-of-way, immediately
drive to a position parallel to and as close as possible to the edge or curb of
the highway clear of any intersection, and stop and remain in that position
until the emergency vehicle has passed, except when otherwise directed by a
police officer or firefighter.
   (B)   Upon the approach of any emergency vehicle operated in conformity with
the provisions of division (A) above, the operator of every vehicle shall
immediately stop clear of any intersection and shall keep that position until
the emergency vehicle has passed, unless directed otherwise by a police officer
or firefighter.
   (C)   No operator of any vehicle, unless he or she is on official business,
shall follow any emergency vehicle being operated in conformity with the
provisions of division (A) above closer than 500 feet, nor shall he or she
drive into, park the vehicle into, or park the vehicle within the block where
the vehicle has stopped in answer to an emergency call or alarm, unless he or
she is directed otherwise by a police officer or firefighter.
   (D)   No vehicle, train, or other equipment shall be driven over any
unprotected hose of a fire department when the hose is laid down on any street,
private driveway, or track for use at any fire alarm unless the fire department
official in command consents that the hose be driven over.
   (E)   Upon approaching a stationary emergency vehicle or public safety
vehicle, when the emergency vehicle or public safety vehicle is giving a signal
by displaying alternately flashing yellow, red, red and white, red and blue, or
blue lights, a person who drives an approaching vehicle shall either, while
proceeding with due caution:
      (1)   Yield the right-of-way by moving to a lane not adjacent to that of
the authorized emergency vehicle, if:
         (a)   The person is driving on a highway having at least four lanes
with not fewer than two lanes proceeding in the same direction as the
approaching vehicle; and
         (b)   If it is possible to make the lane change with due regard to
safety and traffic conditions.
      (2)   Reduce the speed of the vehicle, maintaining a safe speed to road
conditions, if changing lanes would be impossible or unsafe.
   (F)   This section does not operate to relieve the person who drives an
emergency vehicle from the duty to operate the vehicle with due regard for the
safety of all persons using the highway.
(KRS 189.930) (Prior Code, § 71.26) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.37 SMOKE EMISSION; NOISE.
   (A)   Every vehicle when on a highway shall be so equipped as to make a
minimum of noise, smoke, or other nuisance, to protect the rights of other
traffic, and to promote the public safety.
(KRS 189.020)
   (B)   Except as provided in any regulations adopted by the state pursuant to
KRS 189.287, every motor vehicle and bicycle when in use on a highway shall be
equipped with a horn or other device capable of making an abrupt sound
sufficiently loud to be heard under all ordinary traffic conditions. Every
person operating an automobile or bicycle shall sound the horn or sound device
whenever necessary as a warning of the approach of such vehicle to pedestrians
or other vehicles, but shall not sound the horn or sound device unnecessarily.
A bell may be used on a bicycle.
(KRS 189.080)
   (C)   Every motor vehicle with an internal-combustion, steam, or air motor
shall be equipped with a suitable and efficient muffler. No person while on a
highway shall operate a motor vehicle with the muffler cut out or removed. No
cutout shall be so arranged or connected as to permit its operation or control
by the driver of any motor vehicle while in position for driving. No person
shall modify the exhaust system of a motor vehicle or an off-highway vehicle in
a manner which will amplify or increase the noise emitted by the motor of such
vehicle above that emitted by the muffler originally installed on the vehicle.
The original muffler shall comply with all of the noise requirements of KRS Ch.
224 and any regulations promulgated pursuant thereto. No person shall operate a
motor vehicle with an exhaust system so modified.
(KRS 189.140)
(Prior Code, § 71.27) (Ord. 4-1977, passed 3-3-1977) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.38 GLARING LIGHTS.
   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle driving during the
hours when lights are required as set forth in KRS 189.030, to operate such
vehicle with the rays of its headlights projecting ahead on the high beam when
other vehicles are approaching from the opposite direction within 500 feet. The
low beam of a vehicle shall be deemed to avoid glare at all times, regardless
of road contour and loading.
(KRS 189.040(5)) (Prior Code, § 71.28) (Ord. 4-1977, passed 3-3-1977) Penalty,
see §
71.99
PARADES
§ 71.50 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PARADE. Any PARADE, march, ceremony, show, exhibition, pageant, or
procession of any kind, or any similar display in or on any street, sidewalk,
park, or other public place in the city.
   PARADE PERMIT. A permit required by this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 71.40)
§ 71.51 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   No person or persons shall engage in, participate in, aid, form, or
start any parade unless a parade permit has been obtained from the City
Commission or any authorized city official.
   (B)   This subchapter shall not apply to:
      (1)   Funeral processions; or
      (2)   A governmental agency acting within the scope of its functions.
(Prior Code, § 71.41) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.52 APPLICATION FOR PERMIT.
   A person seeking issuance of a parade permit shall file an application with
the City Commission or any authorized city official on forms provided by the
Commissioner or the official.
   (A)   Filing period. The application for a parade permit shall be filed not
less than five days or not more than 60 days before the date on which it is
proposed to conduct the parade.
   (B)   Application. The application for a parade permit shall set forth the
following information:
      (1)   The name, address, and telephone number of the person seeking to
conduct the parade;
      (2)   If the parade is proposed to be conducted for, on behalf of, or by
an organization, the name, address, and telephone number of the headquarters of
the organization and of the authorized and responsible heads of the
organization;
      (3)   The name, address, and telephone number of the person who will be
the Parade Chairperson and who will be responsible for its conduct;
      (4)   The date when the parade is to be conducted;
      (5)   The route to be traveled, the starting point, and the termination
point;
      (6)   The approximate number of persons, animals, and vehicles which will
constitute the parade, the type of animals, if any, and the description of the
vehicles;
      (7)   The hours when the parade will start and terminate;
      (8)   A statement as to whether the parade will occupy all or only a
portion of the width of the streets, sidewalk, park, or other public place
proposed to be traversed;
      (9)   The location by street of any assembly area for the parade;
      (10)   The time at which units of the parade will begin to assemble at
any assembly area or areas;
      (11)   The interval of space to be maintained between units of the
parade;
      (12)   If the parade is designed to be held by and on behalf of or for
any person other than the applicant, the applicant for the permit shall file a
communication in writing from the person authorizing the applicant to apply for
the permit on his or her behalf; and
      (13)   Any additional information reasonably necessary to a fair
determination as to whether a permit should issue.
   (C)   Fee. There shall be paid at the time of filing an application for a
parade permit a fee in an amount as established by the City Commission.
(Prior Code, § 71.42) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.53 STANDARDS FOR ISSUANCE OF PERMIT.
   The City Commission or any authorized city official shall issue a permit
when, from a consideration of the application and from other information
obtained, he or she finds that:
   (A)   The conduct of the parade will not substantially interrupt the safe
and orderly movement of other traffic contiguous to its route;
   (B)   The conduct of the parade will not require the diversion of so great a
number of police officers of the city to properly police the line of movement
and the areas contiguous thereto as to prevent normal police protection to the
city;
   (C)   The conduct of the parade will not require the diversion of so great a
number of ambulances as to prevent normal ambulance service to portions of the
city other than that to be occupied by the proposed line of march and areas
contiguous thereto;
   (D)   The concentration of persons, animals, and vehicles at assembly points
of the parade will not unduly interfere with proper fire and police protection
of or ambulance service to areas contiguous to the assembly areas;
   (E)   The conduct of the parade will not interfere with the movement of
firefighting equipment en route to a fire; and
   (F)   The parade is scheduled to move from its point of origin to its point
of termination expeditiously and without unreasonable delays en route.
(Prior Code, § 71.43) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.54 NOTICE OF REJECTION OF PERMIT.
   The City Commission or any authorized city official shall act on the
application for a parade permit within three days, Saturdays, Sundays, and
holidays excepted, after filing thereof. If the City Commission or authorized
city official disapproves the application, he or she shall mail to the
applicant within the three days, Saturdays, Sundays, and holidays excepted,
after the date on which the application was filed, a notice of his or her
action stating the reasons for the denial of the permit.
(Prior Code, § 71.44)
§ 71.55 APPEAL PROCEDURE WHEN PERMIT DENIED.
   Any person aggrieved shall have the right to appeal the denial of a parade
permit to the City Commission. The appeal shall be taken within 30 days after
notice of denial. The City Commission shall act on the appeal within 30 days
after its receipt.
(Prior Code, § 71.45)
§ 71.56 ALTERNATIVE PERMIT.
   The City Commission or any authorized city official, in denying an
application for a parade permit, shall be empowered to authorize the conduct of
the parade on a date, at a time, or over a route different than that named by
the applicant. An applicant desiring to accept an alternate permit shall file a
written notice of his or her acceptance. An alternate parade permit shall
conform to the requirements of and shall have the effect of a parade permit
under this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 71.46)
§ 71.57 NOTICE TO CITY AND OTHER OFFICIALS WHEN PERMIT ISSUED.
   Immediately on the issuance of a parade permit, a copy thereof shall be sent
to the following persons:
   (A)   The City Commission;
   (B)   The City Attorney;
   (C)   The Police Chief and the Fire Chief; and
   (D)   The general manager or responsible head of each public utility, the
regular routes of whose vehicles will be affected by the route of the proposed
parade.
(Prior Code, § 71.47)
§ 71.58 CONTENTS OF PERMIT.
   Each parade permit shall state the following information:
   (A)   Starting time;
   (B)   Minimum speed;
   (C)   Maximum speed;
   (D)   Maximum interval of space to be maintained between the units of the
parade;
   (E)   The portions of the street, sidewalk, park, or other public place to
be traversed that may be occupied by the parade;
   (F)   The maximum length of the parade in miles or fractions thereof; and
   (G)   Other information as is reasonably necessary to the enforcement of
this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 71.48) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.59 DUTIES OF PERMITTEE.
   A permittee hereunder shall comply with all permit directions and conditions
and with all applicable laws and ordinances. The Parade Chairperson or other
person heading or leading the activity shall carry the parade permit on his or
her person during the conduct of the parade.
(Prior Code, § 71.49) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.60 PUBLIC CONDUCT DURING PARADES.
   (A)   Interference. No person shall unreasonably hamper, obstruct, impede,
or interfere with any parade or parade assembly or with any person, vehicle, or
animal participating or used in a parade.
   (B)   Driving through parades. No driver of a vehicle except a police car or
other emergency vehicle shall drive between the vehicles or persons comprising
a parade when the vehicles or persons are in motion and are conspicuously
designated as a parade.
Cross-reference:
   Parking on parade routes, see §
72.07
(Prior Code, § 71.50)
§ 71.61 REVOCATION OF PERMIT.
   The city shall have the authority to revoke a parade permit issued hereunder
on application of the standards for issuance as herein set forth.
(Prior Code, § 71.51)
§ 71.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter for which no other
penalty is specifically provided shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be
fined not less than $20 nor more than $500.
   (B)   The fine for violating the speed limit as specified in §
71.05 shall be the same as set forth in the fine schedule of KRS 189.394.
(Prior Code, § 71.05)
   (C)   Any person who violates §
71.36 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be fined not less than $60 nor
more than $500, or be imprisoned in the county jail for not more than 30 days,
or both. (KRS 189.993(8)) (Prior Code, § 71.99) (Ord. 4-1977, passed 3-3-1977)
CHAPTER 72: PARKING REGULATIONS
Section
Parking Generally
   
72.01   Obstructional parking; double parking
   
72.02   Manner of parking
   
72.03   Limitations of stopping and parking
   
72.04   Restrictions and prohibitions on designated streets
   
72.05   Parking restricted to allow street cleaning
   
72.06   Parking in excess of certain number of hours prohibited; towing
authorized
   
72.07   Parking on parade route
   
72.08   Parking on off-street facility
   
72.09   Owner responsibility
   
72.10   Parking in parks
   
72.11   Display of parked vehicle for sale
   
72.12   Parking with handicapped permits
Impounding
   
72.25   Impoundment of vehicles authorized; redemption
   
72.26   Required notice to owner; sale of a vehicle
   
72.27   Sale of the contents of a vehicle
Snow Emergency
   
72.40   Announcement of snow emergency
   
72.41   Termination of emergency
   
72.42   Snow emergency routes
 
   
72.99   Penalty
Statutory reference:
   Revenues from fees, fines, and forfeitures related to parking, see KRS
65.120
PARKING GENERALLY
§ 72.01 OBSTRUCTIONAL PARKING; DOUBLE PARKING.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to leave any vehicle or any other
thing that may be a nuisance, obstruction, or hindrance in or on any street,
alley, or sidewalk within the city either during the day or night.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to stop or park any vehicle on the
roadway side of any other vehicle stopped or parked at the edge or curb of a
street.
(Prior Code, § 72.01) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.02 MANNER OF PARKING.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to stop or park
the vehicle in a manner other than with its right-hand side toward and parallel
with the curb, except that where parking is permitted on the left side of a
one-way street, the left-hand side shall be so parked, and except for
commercial loading and unloading on one-way streets.
   (B)   No vehicle shall be parked or left standing on any street unless its
two right wheels are within six inches of and parallel with the curb, except
that on one-way streets where parking is permitted on the left side, the two
left wheels are to be within six inches of and parallel with the curb.
   (C)   No vehicle shall be backed to the curb on any street, except that
wagons and trucks may do so when loading and unloading; provided, that the
loading and unloading and delivery of property and material shall not consume
more than 30 minutes. This backing of trucks or wagons is prohibited at all
times and on all streets in the city where any truck or wagon so backed
interferes with the use of the roadway by moving vehicles or occupies road
space within ten feet of the centerline of the street.
   (D)   The city may establish diagonal parking at certain places, requiring
the parking of vehicles at a certain angle to the curb, and within a certain
portion of the roadway adjacent thereto; however, diagonal parking shall not be
established where the roadway space required therefor would be within ten feet
of the centerline of any street. The diagonal parking places shall be
designated by suitable signs, and shall indicate by markings on the pavement
the required angle and the width of the roadway space within which the vehicle
shall park.
   (E)   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to so park the
vehicle that any part thereof shall extend beyond the lines marking the side or
the rear of the space assigned for one vehicle.
(Prior Code, § 72.02) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.03 LIMITATIONS OF STOPPING AND PARKING.
   (A)   No person shall stop or park a vehicle except when necessary to avoid
conflict with other traffic or in compliance with the directions of a police
officer or traffic-control device, in the following places:
      (1)   On a sidewalk;
      (2)   In front of sidewalk ramps provided for persons with disabilities;
      (3)   In front of a public or private driveway;
      (4)   Within an intersection or on a crosswalk;
      (5)   At any place where official signs prohibit stopping or parking;
      (6)   Within 30 feet upon the approach to any flashing beacon, stop sign,
or traffic-control signal located at the side of a roadway;
      (7)   On any controlled access highway;
      (8)   Within a highway tunnel;
      (9)   Within 15 feet of a fire hydrant; or
      (10)   On an area between the roadways of a divided highway.
(KRS 189.450(5))
   (B)   No person shall move a vehicle not lawfully under his or her control
into any prohibited area.
(KRS 189.450(6))
(Prior Code, § 72.03) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.04 RESTRICTIONS AND PROHIBITIONS ON DESIGNATED STREETS.
   (A)   The provisions of this section prohibiting the stopping and parking of
a vehicle shall apply at all times or at those times herein specified or as
indicated on official signs, except when it is necessary to stop a vehicle to
avoid conflict with other traffic or in compliance with the directions of a
police officer or official traffic-control devices.
   (B)   The provisions of this section imposing a time limit on parking shall
not relieve any person from his or her duty to observe other and more
restrictive provisions prohibiting or limiting the stopping or parking of
vehicles in specific places or at specified times.
   (C)   When signs are erected in compliance with the provisions of division
(F) below giving notice thereof, no person shall park a vehicle at any time on
any street so marked by official signs.
   (D)   When a curb has been painted in compliance with the provisions of
division (F) below, no person shall park a vehicle at any time at or adjacent
to any curb so marked.
   (E)   When signs are erected in compliance with the provisions of division
(F) below, in each block giving notice thereof, no person shall park a vehicle
between the hours specified by official signs on any day except Sundays on any
street so marked.
   (F)   (1)   The city shall determine on what streets or portions thereof
stopping or parking shall be restricted or prohibited. Whenever under authority
of or by this traffic code or any other ordinance any parking limit is imposed
or parking is prohibited on designated streets, or parking areas are restricted
to handicapped parking, appropriate signs shall be erected giving notice
thereof; however, in lieu of erecting the signs or in conjunction therewith,
the face and top of a curb or curbs at or adjacent to which parking is
prohibited at all times may be painted a solid yellow color.
      (2)   No regulations or restrictions shall be effective unless the signs
have been erected and are in place or the curbs are painted yellow at the time
of any alleged offense, except in the case of those parking restrictions which
by their very nature would not require the signs and markings.
   (G)   When signs are erected in compliance with division (F) above in each
block giving notice thereof, no person shall park a vehicle for a time longer
than specified on official signs any day except Sunday and on any street so
marked.
(Prior Code, § 72.04) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.05 PARKING RESTRICTED TO ALLOW STREET CLEANING.
   The city is authorized to designate street cleaning areas and shall provide
suitable signs and markings on the street to be cleaned, restricting parking on
that particular day. It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to
stop on any street so designated.
(Prior Code, § 72.05) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.06 PARKING IN EXCESS OF CERTAIN NUMBER OF HOURS PROHIBITED; TOWING
AUTHORIZED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for anyone to park in any one place any vehicle
on any of the public ways or streets of the city for a period of 24 hours or
longer. Any vehicle left parked in any one place on any of the public ways or
streets of the city for a period of 24 hours or longer shall be deemed
abandoned, and shall be subject to all existing regulations of the city
pertaining to abandoned motor vehicles.
   (B)   During any calendar year no mobile home, recreational vehicle,
trailer, camper, boat, or truck, (excluding pickup trucks), shall be parked
visibly on the property outside of a legal enclosure, or on any street in the
city for a period of time exceeding an aggregate total of 24 hours.
(Prior Code, § 72.06) (Ord. 4-1977, passed 3-3-1977; Ord. passed 4-13-2017)
Penalty, see §
72.99
Cross-reference:
   Removal of abandoned vehicles, see §§
72.25 through
72.27
§ 72.07 PARKING ON PARADE ROUTE.
   (A)   The City Commission or any authorized city official shall have the
authority, whenever in his or her judgment it is necessary, to prohibit or
restrict the parking of vehicles along a street or part thereof constituting a
part of the route of a parade or procession, to erect temporary traffic signs
to that effect, and to prohibit and prevent parking.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to park or leave unattended any vehicle in
violation of the signs or directions.
(Prior Code, § 72.07) Penalty, see §
72.99
Cross-reference:
   Parades, see §§
71.51 - 71.61
§ 72.08 PARKING ON OFF-STREET FACILITY.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the driver of a motor vehicle to park or
abandon the vehicle or drive on or otherwise trespass on another’s property, or
on an area developed as an off-street parking facility, without the consent of
the owner, lessee, or person in charge of the property or facility.
   (B)   If at any time a vehicle is parked, abandoned, or otherwise trespasses
in violation of division (A) above, the owner, lessee, or person in charge of
the property or facility may have the unauthorized motor vehicle removed in
accordance with the provisions of §§
72.25 through
72.27.
   (C)   Every property owner or operator of an off-street parking facility
shall post signs stating thereon that the property or parking lot or facility
is privately owned, and that an unauthorized vehicle will be removed at the
owner’s expense before exercising the authority granted in division (B) above.
(Prior Code, § 72.08) Penalty, see §
72.99
Statutory reference:
   Removal of vehicles by owners of private parking lots; signs, see KRS
189.725
§ 72.09 OWNER RESPONSIBILITY.
   If any vehicle is found illegally parked in violation of any provisions of
this subchapter regulating stopping, standing, or parking of vehicles, and the
identity of the driver cannot be determined, the owner or person in whose name
the vehicle is registered shall be held prima facie responsible for the
violation.
(Prior Code, § 72.09) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.10 PARKING IN PARKS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to park any motor vehicle in or on any
section of any public park, playground, play lot, or tot lot within the city
not designed as a parking area or designed and regularly maintained as a
roadway; however, nothing contained in this section shall be construed as
prohibiting the parking of a motor vehicle parallel to a designated and
regularly maintained roadway in any park or playground where at least two
wheels of the motor vehicle are resting on the roadway.
(Prior Code, § 72.10) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.11 DISPLAY OF PARKED VEHICLE FOR SALE.
   It shall be unlawful to park a motor vehicle displayed for sale or a motor
vehicle on which demonstrations are being made on any street.
(Prior Code, § 72.11) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.12 PARKING WITH HANDICAPPED PERMITS.
   (A)   Any other provision to the contrary notwithstanding, a motor vehicle
bearing a decal in its front windshield issued by the County Clerk pursuant to
appropriate county ordinances for handicapped persons, when operated by a
handicapped person or when transporting a handicapped person, may be parked in
a designated handicapped parking place, or when parked in a metered parking
space may be parked for two hours for no fee, or when parked where any parking
limit is imposed may be parked for two hours in excess of the parking limit.
The motor vehicle may be parked in a loading zone for that period of time
necessary to permit entrance or exit of the handicapped person to or from the
parked vehicle, but in no circumstances longer than 30 minutes.
   (B)   This section shall not permit parking in a “no stopping” or “no
parking” zone, nor where parking is prohibited for the purpose of creating a
fire lane or to accommodate heavy traffic during morning, afternoon, or evening
hours, nor to permit a motor vehicle to be parked in such a manner as to
constitute a traffic hazard.
(Prior Code, § 72.12) Penalty, see §
72.99
IMPOUNDING
§ 72.25 IMPOUNDMENT OF VEHICLES AUTHORIZED; REDEMPTION.
   (A)   All police officers are empowered to authorize the impoundment of a
vehicle violating vehicle- related ordinances after a citation has been issued.
   (B)   A vehicle slated for impoundment will be tagged and placed under
control of the Police Department. Should a vehicle be moved without the consent
and approval of the Police Department, a warrant shall be issued immediately
for the violator’s arrest.
   (C)   All fines, fees, and charges must be paid in full before a release of
impoundment can be issued for the vehicle’s release.
(Prior Code, § 72.20)
§ 72.26 REQUIRED NOTICE TO OWNER; SALE OF A VEHICLE.
   (A)   (1)   Any person engaged in the business of storing or towing motor
vehicles, who has complied with the notification requirements of KRS 281.928,
shall have a lien on the motor vehicle and its contents, except as set forth in
division (B), for the applicable and reasonable charges assessed in accordance
with KRS 281.926 and 281.932, as long as it remains in his or her possession.
      (2)   If, after a period of 45 days, the applicable and reasonable
charges assessed in accordance with KRS 281.926 and 281.932 have not been paid,
the motor vehicle and its contents, except as set forth in division (B), may be
sold to pay the charges after the owner and any lienholder have been notified
by certified mail at the addresses specified in KRS 281.928(1), ten days prior
to the time and place of the sale. If the proceeds of the sale of any vehicle
pursuant to this section are insufficient to satisfy accrued charges, the sale
and collection of proceeds shall not constitute a waiver or release of
responsibility for payment of unpaid charges by the owner or responsible
casualty insurer of the vehicle. A lien on a vehicle under this division shall
be subject to prior recorded liens, unless released by any existing lienholder
pursuant to division (A)(3).
      (3)   A lienholder having a prior recorded lien listed on the title
issued by the Commonwealth of Kentucky shall be notified by certified mail
within the first ten days of impoundment in accordance with KRS 281.928. Such
notification, in addition to the requirements of KRS 281.928, shall include the
make, model, license number, vehicle identification number, owner's name and
last known address, and tentative date of sale for the vehicle, and state that
the towing company or storage facility seeks to obtain a new title free and
clear of any liens, excluding tax liens. If the above-referenced certified
letter is not sent within the ten days by the towing and storage company, then
only ten days of storage may be charged. The lienholder has the right to take
possession of the motor vehicle after showing proof of lien still enforced, and
paying the reasonable or agreed towing and storage charges on the motor
vehicle. If a lienholder does not exercise the right to take possession of the
motor vehicle under this division within 45 days of notification, and all
lienholders agree in writing, the towing company or storage facility may obtain
a new title under KRS 186A.145 free and clear of any liens, excluding tax
liens. Nothing in this section shall allow the transfer of a vehicle subject to
a lien, except as provided in KRS 186A.190.
      (4)   If there are no lienholders required to be notified under KRS
281.920 to 281.936, KRS 359.230 and KRS 376.275, and the owner does not
exercise the right to take possession of the motor vehicle under this section
within 45 days of notification required under KRS 281.928, the tow company or
storage facility may obtain a new title under KRS 186A.145 free and clear of
any liens, excluding tax liens.
(KRS 376.275(1))
   (B)   Division (A) above shall not apply to the following contents of a
motor vehicle, which shall be released to the vehicle owner or the owner's
designated agent upon request, if the request is made within 45 days of the
date the vehicle was towed:
      (1)   Prescription medication in its proper container;
      (2)   Personal medical supplies and equipment or records;
      (3)   Educational materials, including but not limited to, calculators,
books, papers, and school supplies;
      (4)   Documents, files, electronic devices, or equipment which may be
able to store personal information or information relating to a person's
employment or business;
      (5)   Firearms and ammunition. Notwithstanding the provisions of §
72.27, firearms and ammunition which are not claimed by the owner of the
vehicle within 45 days of the date the vehicle was towed shall be transferred
to the Department of Kentucky State Police for disposition as provided by KRS
16.220;
      (6)   Cargo in the possession of persons engaged in transportation in
interstate commerce as registered under KRS 186.020;
      (7)   Cargo in the possession of an integrated intermodal small package
carrier as defined by KRS 281.605(12);
      (8)   Child restraint systems or child booster seats; and
      (9)   Checks, checkbooks, debit or credit cards, money orders, stocks, or
bonds.
(KRS 376.275(2))
(Prior Code, § 72.21)
§ 72.27 SALE OF THE CONTENTS OF A VEHICLE.
   Except as provided for in §
72.26(B)(5) above, any contents exempted under §
72.26(B)(3), (4), (6), and (7) that are not claimed by the owner of the vehicle
within 45 days of the date the vehicle was towed, may be sold or otherwise
legally disposed of by the storage or towing company. Any contents exempted
under § 72.21(B)(1), (2), (8), and (9) that are not claimed by the owner of the
vehicle within 45 days of the date the vehicle was towed, shall not be sold,
but shall be otherwise legally disposed of by the storage or towing company.
(KRS 376.275(3)) (Prior Code, § 72.22)
SNOW EMERGENCY
§ 72.40 ANNOUNCEMENT OF SNOW EMERGENCY.
   (A)   Whenever the City Commission or any authorized city official finds
that falling snow, sleet, or freezing rain will create a condition which makes
it necessary that the parking of motor vehicles on snow emergency routes be
prohibited, or whenever it is found on the basis of a firm forecast of snow,
sleet, or freezing rain that the weather conditions so forecasted may create a
condition making it necessary that parking be prohibited, the Commission or
city official is authorized to announce the prohibition, to become effective at
a time specified by him, her, or it. After the effective time of the
prohibition, no person shall park any vehicle or permit any vehicle to remain
parked on a snow emergency route. However, if a fall of snow, sleet, or
freezing rain occurs after 11:00 p.m. and prior to 6:00 a.m., and the City
Commission or any authorized city official has not announced prior to 11:00
p.m., that parking on snow emergency routes is to be prohibited after a
specified time, a vehicle parked on a snow emergency route may remain so parked
until 7:00 a.m. following the fall.
   (B)   The prohibition of parking announced by the City Commission or any
authorized city official under the authority of this section shall remain in
effect until the Commission or city official announces the termination of the
snow emergency, in part or in whole, after which the prohibition of parking
authorized by this section shall no longer be in effect.
(Prior Code, § 72.35) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.41 TERMINATION OF EMERGENCY.
   (A)   Whenever the City Commission or any authorized city official shall
find that some or all of the conditions which gave rise to the snow emergency
prohibition no longer exist, the Commission or city official is authorized to
declare the termination of the emergency, in part or in whole, effective
immediately on announcement.
   (B)   If the announcement is made other than between 6:00 a.m. and 11:00
p.m., it shall be repeated between those hours.
(Prior Code, § 72.36)
§ 72.42 SNOW EMERGENCY ROUTES.
   The term SNOW EMERGENCY ROUTE shall mean any route designated by the City
Commission or any authorized city official. On a street or highway designated
as a snow emergency route, special signs shall be posted to this effect.
(Prior Code, § 72.37)
§ 72.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person receiving a citation for any parking violation in the city
shall be deemed to have committed a violation and shall be subject to a
criminal fine or civil penalty or both.
   (B)   The criminal fine shall be $25. The civil penalty shall be $25. Said
fine or penalty shall be payable to the city within seven days of the
citation’s issuance.
   (C)   Each day a violation of this chapter continues shall be a separate and
distinct offense.
   (D)   In addition to enforcement of a criminal fine, offenders shall be
subject to a civil penalty to be recovered by the city in a civil action in the
nature of a debt if the penalty is not paid within the time prescribed above.
   (E)   This penalty section may be enforced by either or both remedies
authorized herein.
   (F)   This section shall take effect from and after its passage and
publication as required by law.
(Prior Code, § 72.99) (Ord. 1, Series 2000, passed 8-10-2000)
CHAPTER 73: BICYCLES AND MOTORCYCLES
Section
   
73.01   Operation of bicycles
   
73.02   Operation of motorcycles and motorscooters
   
73.03   Skating and coasting
   
73.04   Clinging to vehicles
 
   
73.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Required obedience to traffic directions, see §
70.02(C)
§ 73.01 OPERATION OF BICYCLES.
   (A)   No person shall operate a bicycle on the sidewalks of the city.
   (B)   No person shall operate a bicycle on any section of a public park,
playground, play lot, or tot lot, except on a roadway or in a parking area.
   (C)   No operator of any bicycle shall carry another person on the bicycle.
(Prior Code, § 73.01) Penalty, see §
73.99
Statutory reference:
   Bicycles; safety regulations and standards, see KRS 189.287
§ 73.02 OPERATION OF MOTORCYCLES AND MOTORSCOOTERS.
   (A)   No operator of any motorcycle, motorscooter, or power-driven bicycle
shall carry another person except on a seat attached thereto or in a sidecar
attached to the vehicle.
   (B)   No operator of a motorcycle, motorscooter, or power-driven bicycle
shall operate the vehicle in any public park, except on a roadway or in a
parking area.
   (C)   No operator of a motorcycle, motorscooter, or power-driven bicycle
shall operate the vehicle in any play lot or tot lot.
(Prior Code, § 73.02) Penalty, see §
73.99
Statutory reference:
   Operating and riding on motorcycles, see KRS 189.285
§ 73.03 SKATING AND COASTING.
   Except on streets which may be declared from time to time as “play streets”
by the city and protected by barriers or official signs, it shall be unlawful
for any person on skates or riding on a coaster sled or toy vehicle of any kind
to go on any roadway except at a crosswalk.
(Prior Code, § 73.03) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.04 CLINGING TO VEHICLES.
   (A)   No person while riding on a bicycle, coaster sled, roller skates, or
any toy vehicle shall cling to any moving vehicle on any street, or fasten or
attach the vehicle on which he or she is riding thereto.
   (B)   No person shall ride on the projection, running board, or fenders of
any vehicle.
(Prior Code, § 73.04) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter shall be deemed to have
committed a violation and shall be fined not more than $50 for each offense.
(Prior Code, § 73.99)
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   ANIMALS
      
91.   STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
      
92.   NUISANCES
      
93.   FIREWORKS; FIRE PREVENTION
      
94.   LITTERING
      
95.   NOISE
CHAPTER 90: ANIMALS
Section
General Provisions
   
90.01   Definitions
   
90.02   Animals running at large
   
90.03   Cruelty to animals in the second degree
   
90.04   Dyeing or selling dyed chicks or rabbits
   
90.05   Abandoning domestic animals prohibited
   
90.06   Destruction of abandoned and suffering animal
Dogs
   
90.20   Definition
   
90.21   Dogs running at large
   
90.22   Noise disturbance
   
90.23   Impoundment
Rabies Control
   
90.35   Definitions
   
90.36   Compliance of owners required
   
90.37   Persons to notify Pound when animal suspected of having rabies
   
90.38   Animal suspected of having rabies to be confined
   
90.39   Procedure when person bitten by animal
 
   
90.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 90.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABANDON. To forsake entirely, or to neglect or refuse to provide or perform
the legal obligations for care and support of an animal by its owner or his or
her agent.
(KRS 257.010)
   AT LARGE. Off the premises of the owner, and not under the control of the
owner or his or her agent either by leash, cord, chain, or otherwise.
   OWNER. Every person having a right of property to an animal and every person
who keeps or harbors an animal, has it in his or her care, or permits it to
remain on or about the premises owned or occupied by him or her.
(Prior Code, § 90.01)
§ 90.02 ANIMALS RUNNING AT LARGE.
   (A)   No person who is the owner of any animal shall permit it to run at
large in any public road, highway, street, lane, or alley, or upon unenclosed
land, or permit it to go on any private yard, lot, or enclosure without the
consent of the owner of the yard, lot, or enclosure.
   (B)   The owner of an animal who permits it to run at large in violation of
this section is liable for all damages caused by the animal upon the premises
of another.
(Prior Code, § 90.02) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.03 CRUELTY TO ANIMALS IN THE SECOND DEGREE.
   (A)   A person is guilty of cruelty to animals in the second degree when,
except as authorized by law, he or she intentionally or wantonly:
      (1)   Subjects any animal to, or causes cruel or injurious mistreatment
through abandonment, participates other than as provided in KRS 525.125 in
causing it to fight for pleasure or profit (including, but not limited to,
being a spectator or vendor at an event where a four-legged animal is caused to
fight for pleasure or profit), mutilation, beating, torturing any animal other
than a dog or cat, tormenting, failing to provide adequate food, drink, space,
or health care, or by any other means;
      (2)   Subjects any animal in his or her custody to cruel neglect; or
      (3)   Kills any animal other than a domestic animal killed by poisoning.
This division (A)(3) shall not apply to intentional poisoning of a dog or cat.
Intentional poisoning of a dog or cat shall constitute a violation of this
section.
   (B)   Nothing in this section shall apply to the killing of animals:
      (1)   Pursuant to a license to hunt, fish, or trap;
      (2)   Incident to the processing as food or for other commercial
purposes;
      (3)   For humane purposes;
      (4)   For veterinary, agricultural, spaying or neutering, or cosmetic
purposes;
      (5)   For purposes relating to sporting activities, including, but not
limited to, horse racing at organized races and training for organized races,
organized horse shows, or other animal shows;
      (6)   For bona fide animal research activities of institutions of higher
education; or a business entity registered with the U.S. Department of
Agriculture under the Animal Welfare Act or subject to other federal laws
governing animal research;
      (7)   In defense of self or another person against an aggressive or
diseased animal;
      (8)   In defense of a domestic animal against an aggressive or diseased
animal;
      (9)   For animal or pest control; or
      (10)   For any other purpose authorized by law.
(KRS 525.130) (Prior Code, § 90.03) Penalty, see §
90.99
Statutory reference:
   Cruelty to animals in the first degree, a Class D felony, see KRS 525.125
§ 90.04 DYEING OR SELLING DYED CHICKS OR RABBITS.
   No person shall sell, exchange, offer to sell or exchange, display, or
possess living baby chicks, ducklings, or other fowl or rabbits which have been
dyed or colored; nor dye or color any baby chicks, ducklings, or other fowl or
rabbits; nor sell, exchange, offer to sell, exchange, or to give away baby
chicks, ducklings, or other fowl or rabbits under two months of age in any
quantity less than six, except that any rabbit weighing three pounds or more
may be sold at an age of six weeks.
(KRS 436.600) (Prior Code, § 90.04) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.05 ABANDONING DOMESTIC ANIMALS PROHIBITED.
   No owner of a domestic animal shall abandon the animal.
(Prior Code, § 90.05) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.06 DESTRUCTION OF ABANDONED AND SUFFERING ANIMAL.
   (A)   Any peace officer, animal control officer, or any person authorized by
the Board may destroy or kill, or cause to be destroyed or killed, any animal
found abandoned and suffering and not properly cared for, or appearing to be
injured, diseased, or suffering past recovery for any useful purpose.
(KRS 257.100(1))
   (B)   Before destroying the animal, the officer shall obtain the judgment to
that effect of a veterinarian or of two reputable citizens called by him or her
to view the animal in his or her presence, or shall obtain consent to the
destruction from the owner of the animal.
(KRS 257.100(2))
   (C)   (1)   Any animal placed in the custody of a licensed veterinarian for
treatment, boarding, or other care, which shall be unclaimed by its owner or
his or her agent for a period of more than ten days after written notice by
registered or certified mail, return receipt requested, is given the owner or
his or her agent at his or her last known address, shall be deemed to be
abandoned and may be turned over to the nearest humane society or animal
shelter or disposed of as the custodian may deem proper.
      (2)   The giving of notice to the owner, or the agent of the owner of the
animal by the licensed veterinarian, shall relieve the licensed veterinarian
and any custodian to whom the animal may be given of any further liability for
disposal.
(KRS 257.100((3))
   (D)   Abandonment shall constitute the relinquishment of all rights and
claims by the owner to the animal.
(KRS 257.100(4))
(Prior Code, § 90.06) Penalty, see §
90.99
DOGS
§ 90.20 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DOG. Any member of the canine family, six months of age or over, male or
female.
(Prior Code, § 90.15)
§ 90.21 DOGS RUNNING AT LARGE.
   It shall be unlawful for the owner or keeper of any dog, either licensed or
unlicensed, regardless of the age of the dog, to allow the dog to be at large
and unattended or to run in any street, park, lawn, garden, schoolyard,
playground, or on any other public or private property.
(Prior Code, § 90.16) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.22 NOISE DISTURBANCE.
   No person shall keep or harbor any dog within the city which, by frequent
and habitual barking, howling, or yelping, creates unreasonably loud and
disturbing noises of a character, intensity, and duration as to disturb the
peace, quiet, and good order of one or more of the inhabitants of two or more
separate residences. Any person who shall allow any dog habitually to remain,
be lodged, or fed within any dwelling, yard, or enclosure which he or she
occupies or owns shall be considered as harboring the dog.
(Prior Code, § 90.17) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.23 IMPOUNDMENT.
   Every police officer, peace officer, or other authorized official shall have
the authority to apprehend any dog running at large in violation of this
chapter and any unlicensed dog in the city, and to impound the dog or have the
dog impounded in the appropriate place.
(Prior Code, § 90.18)
RABIES CONTROL
§ 90.35 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ANIMAL. Includes every warm- or cold-blooded living creature, except a human
being.
   CRUELTY. Includes every act or omission whereby unjustifiable physical pain,
suffering, or death is caused or permitted.
   DOMESTIC ANIMAL. Any animal converted to a domestic habitat.
   OWNER. Any person having a right of property in the animal or who keeps,
possesses, or harbors an animal, or who has it in his or her care, or acts as
its custodian, or who permits an animal to remain on or about any premises
occupied by him or her.
   VACCINATION or IMMUNIZATION. The injection of vaccine approved by the Bureau
of Animal Industry, U.S. Department of Agriculture, administered by an
accredited veterinarian.
(Prior Code, § 90.30) (Ord. 3-1977, passed 3-3-1977)
§ 90.36 COMPLIANCE OF OWNERS REQUIRED.
   (A)   All owners of animals who reside within the city shall comply with the
prevailing laws of the state, all regulations of the County Board of Health,
and of any other governmental agencies or instrumentalities that are charged
with and promulgate any regulations concerning the vaccination of animals or
any other standards of health which are applicable to the keeping of animals.
Failure of any owner to comply with any of the aforementioned statutes, rules,
or regulations shall be punishable in accordance with §
90.99.
   (B)   Any owner of an animal who resides within the city shall affix
evidence of a certificate of vaccination to any animal in the possession of the
owner, and the owner shall have proper written verification, as may be issued,
that the subject animal has been vaccinated.
(Prior Code, § 90.31) (Ord. 3-1977, passed 3-3-1977) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.37 PERSONS TO NOTIFY POUND WHEN ANIMAL SUSPECTED OF HAVING RABIES.
   Whenever an animal is infected with rabies, suspected of being infected with
rabies, or has been bitten by an animal known or suspected to be infected with
rabies, the owner of the animal or any person having knowledge thereof shall
forthwith notify the City of Louisville Pound, stating precisely where the
animal was last seen and a description of the animal.
(Prior Code, § 90.32) (Ord. 3-1977, passed 3-3-1977) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.38 ANIMAL SUSPECTED OF HAVING RABIES TO BE CONFINED.
   The Commonwealth Health Department shall serve a notice in writing upon the
owner of an animal known to have been bitten by an animal known or suspected of
being infected with rabies requiring the owner to confine such animal for a
period of not less than six months at the owner’s expense; provided, however,
that animals properly treated with an anti-rabies vaccine shall be confined for
a period of not less than three months.
(Prior Code, § 90.33) (Ord. 3-1977, passed 3-3-1977) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.39 PROCEDURE WHEN PERSON BITTEN BY ANIMAL.
   (A)   Every physician, after his or her first professional attendance upon a
person bitten by an animal shall, within 12 hours, report to the Commonwealth
Health Department the name, age, sex, color, and precise location of the person
so bitten. When no physician is in attendance, the parent or guardian of every
child so bitten shall, within 12 hours after first having knowledge that the
child was so bitten, make like report to the Commonwealth Health Department.
When no physician is in attendance, an adult so bitten or the person caring for
him or her, shall make like report to the Commonwealth Health Department.
   (B)   The Commonwealth Health Department shall serve notice upon the owner
of an animal which has attacked or bitten a person to confine the animal at the
expense of the owner upon his or her premises, at the City of Louisville Pound,
or at some other place designated in the notice, for a period of at least 14
days after the animal has attacked or bitten a person. The Commonwealth Health
Department shall be permitted by the owner of such animal which has attacked or
bitten a person to examine the premises where such animal is ordered confined
at any time, and daily if desired, within the 14-day period of confinement, to
determine whether such animal is being confined, and no person shall obstruct
or interfere with the Commonwealth Health Department in making such inspection.
(Prior Code, § 90.34) (Ord. 3-1977, passed 3-3-1977) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter for which
another penalty is not already otherwise provided shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and shall be fined not more than $500 for each offense. Each day
the violation exists shall constitute a separate offense.
   (B)   Any person who violates §
90.03 shall be guilty of a Class A misdemeanor, and shall be fined not more
than $500, imprisoned for not more than 12 months, or both for each offense.
(KRS 525.130)
   (C)   Any person who violates §
90.04 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be fined not less than $100
nor more than $500.
(KRS 436.600)
(Prior Code, § 90.99)
CHAPTER 91: STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
Section
Excavations and Construction
   
91.01   Opening permit required
   
91.02   Application and cash deposit
   
91.03   Restoration of pavement
   
91.04   Barriers around excavations
   
91.05   Warning lights
   
91.06   Sidewalk construction
Road and Bridge Projects
   
91.20   Public hearing required
   
91.21   Notice requirements
   
91.22   Public may testify; effect of testimony
   
91.23   Hearing to be held prior to construction
   
91.24   Separate hearing for each project not required
   
91.25   Exemptions from hearing requirement
Obstructions
   
91.40   Unloading on street or sidewalk
   
91.41   Street and sidewalk obstruction
   
91.42   Materials on street or sidewalk
   
91.43   Removal of ice and snow
   
91.44   Placement of temporary containers
 
   
91.99   Penalty
EXCAVATIONS AND CONSTRUCTION
§ 91.01 OPENING PERMIT REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, other than an authorized city official,
to make any opening in any street, alley, sidewalk, or public way of the city
unless a permit to make the opening has been obtained prior to commencement of
the work.
(Prior Code, § 91.01) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.02 APPLICATION AND CASH DEPOSIT.
   Each permit for making an opening shall be confined to a single project and
shall be issued by the City Commission or other authorized city official.
Applications shall be made on a form prescribed by the City Commission, giving
the exact location of the proposed opening, the kind of paving, the area and
depth to be excavated, and other facts as may be provided for. The permit shall
be issued only after a cash deposit sufficient to cover the cost of restoration
has been posted with the City Commission or other authorized city official,
conditioned upon prompt and satisfactory refilling of excavations and
restoration of all surfaces disturbed.
(Prior Code, § 91.02)
§ 91.03 RESTORATION OF PAVEMENT.
   (A)   The opening and restoration of a pavement or other surface shall be
performed under the direction and to the satisfaction of the City Commission or
other authorized city official, and in accordance with rules, regulations, and
specifications approved by the City Commission.
   (B)   (1)   Upon failure or refusal of the permittee satisfactorily to fill
the excavation, restore the surface, and remove all excess materials within the
time specified in the permit or, where not specified therein, within a
reasonable time after commencement of the work, the city may proceed without
notice to make the fill and restoration and the deposit referred to in §
91.02 shall be forfeited.
      (2)   Thereupon the deposit shall be paid into the appropriate city fund,
except that part demanded and paid to the permittee as the difference between
the deposit and the charges of the city for restoration services performed by
it.
      (3)   If the amount of the services performed by the city should exceed
the amount of the deposit, the City Clerk or other proper administrative
officer shall proceed to collect the remainder due from the permittee.
(Prior Code, § 91.03)
§ 91.04 BARRIERS AROUND EXCAVATIONS.
   Any person engaged in or employing others in excavating or opening any
street, sidewalk, alley, or other public way shall have the excavation or
opening fully barricaded at all times to prevent injury to persons or animals.
(Prior Code, § 91.04) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.05 WARNING LIGHTS.
   Any person engaged in or employing others in excavating or otherwise in any
manner obstructing a portion or all of any street, sidewalk, alley, or other
public way, at all times during the night season, shall install and maintain at
least two illuminated red lamps which shall be securely and conspicuously
posted on, at, or near each end of the obstruction or excavation, and if the
space involved exceeds 50 feet in extent, at least one additional lamp for each
added 50 feet or portion thereof excavated or obstructed.
(Prior Code, § 91.05) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.06 SIDEWALK CONSTRUCTION.
   It shall be the duty of the authorized city official to supervise
construction or repair of sidewalks within the city. He or she shall cause
specifications to be prepared for the construction of the various kinds of
pavements and transmit the specifications to the City Commission for approval.
When the specifications are approved, the City Commission shall advertise for
proposals to do all the work which may be ordered by the city in construction
and repair of sidewalks, and shall contract therefor, for a period not
exceeding one year, with the lowest responsible bidder, who shall furnish good
and sufficient sureties for the faithful performance of the work. The City
Commission may make separate contracts for the different kinds of work with
different parties.
(Prior Code, § 91.06)
Statutory references:
   Sidewalks; construction along public roads; specifications, see KRS 178.290
   Sidewalks; ramps for wheelchairs, see KRS 66.660
ROAD AND BRIDGE PROJECTS
§ 91.20 PUBLIC HEARING REQUIRED.
   Before the city expends state-derived tax revenues on a municipal highway,
road, street, or bridge, it shall provide an opportunity to the pulic to
provide input in a public meeting for which notice has been given under KRS
61.823(2) through 61.823(4) with regard to the project and to priorities for
use of tax monies for road and bridge purposes.
(KRS 174.100) (Prior Code, § 91.15)
§ 91.21 NOTICE REQUIREMENTS.
   Prior to the contemplated date of expenditure of state-derived tax revenues
on a road or bridge by the city, the city shall include the topic as a specific
item on the public meeting agenda and shall allow any person to speak with
regard to any proposed project, any project which he or she feels should be
built or done which has not been proposed, priorities for completion of
projects, and any other matter related to road or bridge projects.
(KRS 174.100(1)) (Prior Code, § 91.16)
§ 91.22 PUBLIC MAY TESTIFY; EFFECT OF TESTIMONY.
   The city shall not be bound by the comments and input provided at the
meeting, but shall give due consideration to them.
(KRS 174.100(2)) (Prior Code, § 91.17)
§ 91.23 HEARING TO BE HELD PRIOR TO CONSTRUCTION.
   The city shall not begin construction on a road or bridge project wherein
state-derived tax revenues are involved until the meeting as provided herein
has been held.
(KRS 174.100(3)) (Prior Code, § 91.18)
§ 91.24 SEPARATE HEARING FOR EACH PROJECT NOT REQUIRED.
   This subchapter shall not be construed to require a separate meeting for
each project. A single meeting encompassing the entire road and bridge program,
provided all projects subsequently undertaken have been identified at the
meeting, shall meet the requirements of this subchapter.
(KRS 174.100(4)) (Prior Code, § 91.19)
§ 91.25 EXEMPTIONS FROM HEARING REQUIREMENT.
   The provisions of this subchapter shall not apply to emergency repair or
replacement of roads or bridges necessitated by natural or human-caused
disasters, nor to street cleaning or snow removal operations.
(Prior Code, § 91.20)
OBSTRUCTIONS
§ 91.40 UNLOADING ON STREET OR SIDEWALK.
   No person shall unload any heavy material in the streets of the city by
throwing or letting the material fall upon the pavement of any street, alley,
sidewalk, or other public way, without first placing some sufficient protection
over the pavement.
(Prior Code, § 91.30) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.41 STREET AND SIDEWALK OBSTRUCTION.
   No person shall obstruct any street, alley, sidewalk, or other public way
within the city by erecting thereon any fence or building, or permitting any
fence or building to remain thereon. Each day that any fence or building is
permitted to remain upon the public way shall constitute a separate offense
(Prior Code, § 91.31) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.42 MATERIALS ON STREET OR SIDEWALK.
   No person shall encumber any street or sidewalk. No owner, occupant, or
person having the care of any building or lot of land, bordering on any street
or sidewalk, shall permit it to be encumbered with barrels, boxes, cans,
articles, or substances of any kind, so as to interfere with the free and
unobstructed use thereof.
(Prior Code, § 91.32) Penalty, see §
91.99
Cross-reference:
   Littering on streets or sidewalks, see
Chapter 94 of this code of ordinances
§ 91.43 REMOVAL OF ICE AND SNOW.
   It shall be the duty of the owner or of the occupant of each and every
parcel of real estate in the city abutting upon any sidewalk to keep the
sidewalk abutting his or her premises free and clear of snow and ice to the
extent feasible under the prevailing weather conditions, and to remove
therefrom all snow and ice, to the extent feasible under the prevailing weather
conditions, accumulated thereon within a reasonable time which will ordinarily
not exceed 12 hours after the abatement of any storm during which the snow and
ice may have accumulated.
(Prior Code, § 91.33) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.44 PLACEMENT OF TEMPORARY CONTAINERS.
   No person, without prior written permission from the City Commissioners,
shall cause any temporary container, including but not limited to dumpsters,
Bagsters, PODs, any temporary facility (such as temporary offices or
restrooms), or shipping containers, to be placed, parked, or stationed on any
street, alley, sidewalk, or other public way within the city. Each 24-hour
period or part thereof that any temporary container is permitted to remain upon
the public way shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 1, Series 2020, passed 3-12-2020) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and shall, upon conviction, be fined not more than $500.
(Prior Code, § 91.99)
CHAPTER 92: NUISANCES
Section
   
92.01   Title
   
92.02   Public nuisance defined
   
92.03   Prohibition
   
92.04   Enforcement
   
92.05   Abatement
   
92.06   Lien authorized
§ 92.01 TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the “City of Bancroft
Nuisance Code”.
(Ord. 2 Series 1998, passed - -)
§ 92.02 PUBLIC NUISANCE DEFINED.
   (A)   As used in this chapter, a PUBLIC NUISANCE shall mean any act, thing,
occupation, condition, or use of property which shall continue for such length
of time as to:
      (1)   Substantially annoy, injure, or endanger the comfort, health,
repose, or safety of the public;
      (2)   In any way render the PUBLIC NUISANCE in life or in the use or
property;
      (3)   Greatly offend the public morals or decency;
      (4)   Unlawfully and substantially interfere with, obstruct, or tend to
obstruct or render dangerous for passage any street, alley, highway, sidewalk,
stream, ditch, or drainage; or
      (5)   Essentially interfere with the comfortable enjoyment of life and
property, or tend to depreciate the value of the property of others.
   (B)   PUBLIC NUISANCES shall include, but not be limited to, the following
acts, conduct, omissions, conditions or things:
      (1)   All decayed, harmfully adulterated, or unwholesome food or drink
sold or offered for sale to the public;
      (2)   Carcasses of household pets or other animals not buried or
otherwise disposed of in a sanitary manner within 24 hours after death;
      (3)   Accumulations of decayed animal or vegetable matter, trash,
rubbish, rotting lumber, bedding, packing materials, scrap metal, or any
material whatsoever in which flies, mosquitoes, disease-carrying insects,
rodents, or other vermin may breed or may reasonably be expected to breed;
      (4)   All stagnant water in which mosquitoes, flies, or other insects can
multiply;
      (5)   Garbage and refuse containers which are not fly-tight;
      (6)   (a)   All noxious weeds and other rank growth or vegetation;
         (b)   Any vegetation, including, but not limited to, grass, in excess
of eight inches in height; or
         (c)   Any tree stump not ground within three months of removal of the
tree.
      (7)   The escape of smoke, soot, cinders, noxious acids, fumes, gases,
fly ash, or industrial dust within the city limits or within one mile therefrom
in such quantities as to endanger the health of persons of ordinary
sensibilities or to threaten or cause substantial injury to property;
      (8)   The pollution of any public well or cistern, stream, lake, canal,
or body of water by sewage, creamery, or industrial wastes or other substances;
      (9)   Any use of property, substances, or things within the city emitting
or causing any foul, offensive, noisome, nauseous, noxious, or disagreeable
odors, effluvia, or stenches extremely repulsive to the physical senses of
ordinary persons which annoy, discomfort, injure, or inconvenience the health
of any appreciable number of persons within the city;
      (10)   Any building or structure which is uncompleted and abandoned,
deteriorated, dilapidated, or extremely unsound, and endangers the health and
safety of the public;
      (11)   Any inoperable or abandoned vehicle which exists in violation of
any of the provisions of this chapter;
      (12)   Any vehicle parked on private property, except on a driveway made
of black top or concrete;
      (13)   Dumpsters, dumpster bags, Bagsters, PODS, and other similar
transportable refuse, storage or shipping containers, unless the container is
owned, leased, or under the control of the city, or unless the owner of the
property on which the container is located has obtained the required permits
for the container from Louisville Metro Government and/or any appropriate state
agency;
      (14)   Temporary or portable structures, such as tents, temporary
canopies, and other forms of temporary shelter or housing, which are not
removed within 36 hours;
      (15)   Any sidewalks, walkways, stairs, driveways, parking spaces, and
similar areas on private property that are accessible to the general public,
which are not in good working order, deteriorated, dilapidated, or unsound, or
endanger the health and safety of the public; or
      (16)   Other actions, conduct, omissions, conditions, or things defined
or specified in this chapter as nuisances or as PUBLIC NUISANCES.
(Ord. 2 Series 1998, passed - -; Ord. 19, Series 2015, passed 6-11-2015; Ord.
2, Series 2019, passed 6-13-2019)
§ 92.03 PROHIBITION.
   (A)   No person shall erect, contrive, cause, continue, maintain, or permit
to exist any public nuisance within the city.
   (B)   The procedures and remedies set forth in §§
92.04 and
92.05 may be used in the alternative or in consonance with or in lieu of any
other remedy or procedure set forth in this chapter for the removal of
violations or nuisances.
(Ord. 2 Series 1998, passed - -) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.04 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   All complaints alleging the existence of a public nuisance shall be
filed in writing with the City Police Department.
   (B)   A city police officer shall promptly inspect the premises or cause
them to be inspected and shall make a written report of the findings of the
inspection. Whenever practicable, photographs of the premises shall be attached
to the written report. The inspecting officer shall file a written report with
the Police Department.
(Ord. 2 Series 1998, passed - -; Ord. 20, Series 2015, passed 6-11-2015)
§ 92.05 ABATEMENT.
   (A)   Upon determining that a public nuisance exists and that there is
danger to the public health, safety, peace, morals, or decency, a city police
officer shall serve a notice of the public nuisance or cause a notice to be
served on the owner or occupant of the property where the public nuisance
exists or upon the person causing, permitting, or maintaining the nuisance. A
copy of the notice shall be posted on the premises where the public nuisance
exists.
   (B)   (1)   The notice shall specifically describe the public nuisance and
shall direct the owner or the occupant of the private property where the public
nuisance exists or the person causing, permitting, or maintaining the nuisance
to abate or remove the nuisance within 24 hours of service or posting of the
notice. If the owner, occupant, or person cannot be located after reasonable
inquiry, posting shall be sufficient notice.
      (2)   The notice shall state that unless the nuisance is so abated or
removed, the city will cause it to be abated or removed, that the cost will be
charged to the owner, occupant, or person causing, permitting, or maintaining
the nuisance, and that the cost shall be a lien on the real property where the
nuisance was abated or removed. The notice shall also state that the owner or
occupant is personally liable for the amount of the lien including interest,
civil penalties, and other charges.
      (3)   If the public nuisance does not constitute a great and immediate
danger to the public health, safety, or welfare, a city police officer may
serve or cause the service of the owner or occupant of the premises or the
person in whose name the real estate was last billed for property tax purposes
a notice to demand the abatement or removal of the violation within ten days.
Service may be had by certified mail or personal service.
   (C)   If a nuisance is not abated or removed after notice pursuant to this
section and within the time specified in the notice, a city police officer may
cause the abatement or removal of the public nuisance. The reasonable cost
thereof shall be a lien on the real property where the nuisance was abated or
removed.
   (D)   (1)   The person upon whom a notice to abate a nuisance is served, the
property owner, tenant, or other affected person may appeal the determination
of a nuisance, in writing, to the City Commission. The written appeal must be
made within the time period in which to abate the nuisance is given in the
notice.
      (2)   The Commission shall meet with the appellant at the next regularly
scheduled Commission meeting after receipt of the written appeal. The
Commission may extend the time in which the nuisance must be abated, determine
that a nuisance does not or no longer exists, or that the nuisance must be
abated within the time period set out in the notice or immediately if the
period has run; provided, however, that if the nuisance was determined to be an
emergency and that the opportunity for an appeal was not available due to the
short period of time to abate the nuisance, an appeal may be heard after the
abatement of the nuisance by the city, in that event, the Commission may
determine that the appellant is liable for the costs, or that, upon good cause
shown, that the appellant is not liable for the costs and that a lien shall not
be filed by the city upon the property. The notice to abate shall contain a
statement as to the right of appeal.
(Ord. 2 Series 1998, passed - -; Ord. 21, Series 2015, passed 6-11-2015)
§ 92.06 LIEN AUTHORIZED.
   (A)   (1)   Whenever a bill for the reasonable costs of abatement or removal
of a nuisance pursuant to this chapter remains unpaid for 14 days after it has
been sent, the Clerk shall file a notice of lien with the County Clerk.
      (2)   Unpaid bills for the cost of abatement shall also be added to the
city ad valorem tax bill for the property. Any notice of lien pursuant to this
chapter shall be filed within 90 days after the cost and expense of abatement
or removal of nuisance has been incurred by the city.
      (3)   The notice shall consist of a sworn statement setting out:
         (a)   A description of the real estate sufficient for identification
thereof;
         (b)   The amount of money representing the cost and expense incurred
or payable for the service; and
         (c)   The date or dates when the costs and expense was incurred by the
city.
   (B)   Any purchaser whose rights in and to the real estate have arisen
subsequent to removal of the public nuisance and prior to the filing of the
notice shall not be held liable for the costs of abatement or removal, and the
lien of the city shall not have priority as to any mortgage, judgment creditor,
or other lienor whose rights in and to the real estate arise prior to the
filing of the notice.
   (C)   Costs and expenses under this chapter include, but are not limited to,
the actual costs and expenses in time of city employees or city-authorized
contractors and in materials used in the actual abatement of the nuisance
pursuant to this chapter, transportation to and from the property, title
searches, or certifications, preparations of lien documents, foreclosure, and
other related expenses, including, but not limited to, reasonable attorney’s
expenses.
   (D)   A copy of the notice of lien shall be mailed by the Clerk to the owner
of the property, to the occupant, or to the person or persons in whose name the
real estate was last billed for property tax purposes.
   (E)   The city may enforce the lien by action initiated in the County
Circuit Court for the unpaid assessment of the costs and expenses, and the
proceeds of the sale applied to pay the charges, after deducting costs.
   (F)   The City Commission may institute proceedings in the name of the city
in any court having jurisdiction over the matters against any property for
which the costs and expenses have remained unpaid for 30 days after a statement
of the costs and expenses have been mailed to the property owner, to the
occupant, or to the person or persons in whose name the property was last
billed for property tax purposes.
   (G)   After notice of lien has been filed and upon payment of the costs and
expenses plus interest from the date 30 days after the bill was sent, the Clerk
shall file with the County Clerk a release of the lien.
   (H)   If payment of the city’s costs of removal or abatement of the nuisance
is not paid to the city within 30 days of the filing of the notice of the lien,
the City Attorney is empowered to commence proceedings in the Circuit Court
seeking a personal judgment from the owner of or persons interested in the
property at the time the complaint for removal or abatement was filed with the
Circuit Court Clerk in the amount of the costs. The action authorized by this
division (H) shall be in addition to, and without waiver of, any other remedy.
(Ord. 2 Series 1998, passed - -)
CHAPTER 93: FIREWORKS; FIRE PREVENTION
Section
Fireworks
   
93.01   Definitions; legality of items
   
93.02   Sale or use prohibited; exception for public display
   
93.03   Common fireworks; restrictions on sale
   
93.04   Bond or liability insurance requirement
   
93.05   Exempted sales and uses
   
93.06   Destruction of fireworks
Fire Prevention
   
93.20   Blasting permit
   
93.21   Storage of flammables and other matter
 
   
93.99   Penalty
FIREWORKS
§ 93.01 DEFINITIONS; LEGALITY OF ITEMS.
   (A)   As used in KRS 227.700 to 227.750, FIREWORKS means any composition or
device for the purpose of producing a visible or an audible effect by
combustion, deflagration, or detonation, and which meets the definition of
“consumer fireworks” as defined in division (B) below or “display” fireworks as
defined in division (D) below, and as set forth in the U.S. Department of
Transportation’s (DOT) hazardous materials regulations. FIREWORKS does not
include:
      (1)   Exception No. 1: Toy pistols, toy canes, toy guns, or other devices
in which paper or plastic caps manufactured in accordance with DOT regulations,
and packed and shipped according to those regulations, are not considered to be
fireworks and shall be allowed to be used and sold at all times;
      (2)   Exception No. 2: Model rockets and model rocket motors designed,
sold, and used for the purpose of propelling recoverable aero models are not
considered to be fireworks; or
      (3)   Exception No. 3: Propelling or expelling charges consisting of a
mixture of sulfur, charcoal, and saltpeter are not considered as being designed
for producing audible effects.
(KRS 227.700)
   (B)   As used in KRS 227.700 to 227.750, CONSUMER FIREWORKS means fireworks
that are suitable for use by the public, designed primarily to produce visible
effects by combustion, and that comply with the construction, chemical
composition, and labeling regulations of the U.S. Consumer Product Safety
Commission. The types, sizes, and amount of pyrotechnic contents of these
devices are limited as enumerated in this section. Some small devices designed
to produce audible effects are included, such as whistling devices, ground
devices containing 50 milligrams or less of explosive composition, and aerial
devices containing 130 milligrams or less of explosive composition. CONSUMER
FIREWORKS are further defined by the Consumer Product Safety Commission in
CPSC, 16 C.F.R. parts 1500 and 1507, are classified as Division 1.4G Class C
explosives by the U.S. Department of Transportation and include the following.
      (1)   Ground and hand-held sparkling devices.
         (a)   Dipped stick-sparkler or wire sparkler. These devices consist of
a metal wire or wood dowel that has been coated with pyrotechnic composition.
Upon ignition of the tip of the device, a shower of sparks is produced.
Sparklers may contain up to 100 grams of pyrotechnic composition per item.
Those devices containing any perchlorate or chlorate salts may not exceed five
grams of pyrotechnic composition per item. Wire sparklers which contain no
magnesium and which contain less than 100 grams of composition per item are not
included in this category, in accordance with DOT regulations.
         (b)   Cylindrical fountain. Cylindrical tube containing not more than
75 grams of pyrotechnic composition. Upon ignition, a shower of colored sparks,
and sometimes a whistling effect or smoke, is produced. This device may be
provided with a spike for insertion into the ground (spike fountain), a wood or
plastic base for placing on the ground (base fountain), or a wood or cardboard
handle, if intended to be hand-held (handle fountain). When more than one tube
is mounted on a common base, total pyrotechnic composition may not exceed 200
grams, or 500 grams if the tubes are separated from each other on the base by a
distance of at least one-half inch.
         (c)   Cone fountain. Cardboard or heavy paper cone containing up to 50
grams of pyrotechnic composition. The effect is the same as that of a
cylindrical fountain. When more than one cone is mounted on a common base, the
total pyrotechnic composition may not exceed 200 grams, or 500 grams if the
tubes are separated from each other on the base by a distance of at least one-
half inch.
         (d)   Illuminating torch. Cylindrical tube containing up to 100 grams
of pyrotechnic composition. Upon ignition, colored fire is produced. May be
spike, base, or hand-held. When more than one tube is mounted on a common base,
total pyrotechnic composition may not exceed 200 grams, or 500 grams if the
tubes are separated from each other on the base by a distance of at least one-
half inch.
         (e)   Wheel. A device attached to a post or tree by means of a nail or
string. A wheel may have one or more drivers, each of which may contain not
more than 60 grams of pyrotechnic composition. No wheel may contain more than
200 grams total pyrotechnic composition. Upon ignition, the wheel revolves,
producing a shower of color and sparks and, sometimes, a whistling effect.
         (f)   Ground spinner. Small device containing not more than 20 grams
of pyrotechnic composition, similar in operation to a wheel, but intended to be
placed on the ground and ignited. A shower of sparks and color is produced by
the rapidly-spinning device.
         (g)   Flitter sparkler. Narrow paper tube attached to a stick or wire
and filled with not more than 100 grams of pyrotechnic composition that
produces color and sparks upon ignition. The paper at one end of the tube is
ignited to make the device function.
         (h)   Toy smoke device. Small plastic or paper item containing not
more than 100 grams of pyrotechnic composition that, upon ignition, produces
white or colored smoke as the primary effect.
      (2)   Aerial devices.
         (a)   Sky rockets and bottle rockets. Cylindrical tube containing not
more than 20 grams of pyrotechnic composition. Sky rockets contain a wooden
stick for guidance and stability and rise into the air upon ignition. A burst
of color or noise or both is produced at the height of flight.
         (b)   Missile-type rocket. A device similar to a sky rocket in size,
composition, and effect that uses fins rather than a stick for guidance and
stability.
         (c)   Helicopter, aerial spinner. A tube containing up to 20 grams of
pyrotechnic composition. A propeller or blade is attached which, upon ignition,
lifts the rapidly-spinning device into the air. A visible or audible effect is
produced at the height of flight.
         (d)   Roman candles. Heavy paper or cardboard tube containing up to 20
grams of pyrotechnic composition. Upon ignition, up to ten stars (pellets of
pressed pyrotechnic composition that burn with bright color) are individually
expelled at several-second intervals.
         (e)   Mine, shell. Heavy cardboard or paper tube usually attached to a
wood or plastic base and containing up to 60 grams of total chemical
composition (lift charge, burst charge, and visible or audible effect
composition). Upon ignition, STARS, components producing reports containing up
to 130 milligrams of explosive composition per report, or other devices are
propelled into the air. The term MINE refers to a device with no internal
components containing a bursting charge, and the term SHELL refers to a device
that propels a component that subsequently bursts open in the air. A mine or
shell device may contain more than one tube provided the tubes fire in sequence
upon ignition of one external fuse. The term CAKE refers to a densely-packed
collection of mine or shell tubes. Total chemical composition including lift
charges of any multiple tube devices may not exceed 200 grams. The maximum
quantity of lift charge in any one tube of a mine or shell device shall not
exceed 20 grams, and the maximum quantity of break or bursting charge in any
component shall not exceed 25% of the total weight of chemical composition in
the component. The tube remains on the ground.
         (f)   Aerial shell kit, reloadable tube. A package kit containing a
cardboard, high-density polyethylene (HDPE), or equivalent launching tube with
multiple-shot aerial shells. Each aerial shell is limited to a maximum of 60
grams of total chemical composition (lift charge, burst charge, and visible or
audible effect composition), and the maximum diameter of each shell shall not
exceed one and three- fourths. In addition, the maximum quantity of lift charge
in any shell shall not exceed 20 grams, and the maximum quantity of break or
bursting charge in any shell shall not exceed 25% of the total weight of
chemical composition in the shell. The total chemical composition of all the
shells in a kit, including lift charge, shall not exceed 400 grams. The user
lowers a shell into the launching tube, at the time of firing, with the fuse
extending out of the top of the tube. After the firing, the tube is then
reloaded with another shell for the next firing. All launching tubes shall be
capable of firing twice the number of shells in the kit without failure of the
tube. Each package of multiple-shot aerial shells must comply with all warning
label requirements of the Consumer Product Safety Commission.
      (3)   Audible ground devices.
         (a)   Firecrackers, salutes. Small paper-wrapped or cardboard tube
containing not more than 50 milligrams of pyrotechnic composition. Those used
in aerial devices may contain not more than 130 milligrams of explosive
composition per report. Upon ignition, noise and a flash of light is produced.
         (b)   Chaser. Small paper or cardboard tube that travels along the
ground upon ignition. A whistling effect, or other noise, is often produced.
The explosive composition used to create the noise may not exceed 50
milligrams.
(KRS 227.702)
   (C)   Items listed below are classified as NOVELTIES and TRICK NOISEMAKERS
and are not classified as common fireworks by the U.S. Department of
Transportation, and their transportation, storage, retail sale, possession,
sale, and use shall be allowed throughout the state at all times.
      (1)   Snake, glow worm. Pressed pellet of pyrotechnic composition that
produces a large, snake-like ash upon burning. The ash expands in length as the
pellet burns. These devices may not contain mercuric thiocyanate.
      (2)   Smoke device. Tube or sphere containing pyrotechnic composition
that, upon ignition, produces white or colored smoke as the primary effect.
      (3)   Wire sparkler. Wire coated with pyrotechnic composition that
produces a shower of sparks upon ignition. These items may not contain
magnesium and must not exceed 100 grams of composition per item. Devices
containing any chlorate or perchlorate salts may not exceed five grams of
composition per item.
      (4)   Trick noisemaker. Item that produces a small report intended to
surprise the user. These devices include the following:
         (a)   Party popper. Small plastic or paper item containing not more
than 16 milligrams of explosive composition that is friction sensitive. A
string protruding from the device is pulled to ignite it, expelling paper
streamers and producing a small report;
         (b)   Booby trap. Small tube with string protruding from both ends,
similar to a party popper in design. The ends of the string are pulled to
ignite the friction sensitive composition, producing a small report;
         (c)   Snapper. Small, paper-wrapped item containing a minute quantity
of explosive composition coated on small bits of sand. When dropped, the device
explodes, producing a small report;
         (d)   Trick match. Kitchen or book match that has been coated with a
small quantity of explosive or pyrotechnic composition. Upon ignition of the
match, a small report or a shower of sparks is produced;
         (e)   Cigarette load. Small wooden peg that has been coated with a
small quantity of explosive composition. Upon ignition of a cigarette
containing one of the pegs, a small report is produced; and
         (f)   Auto burglar alarm. Tube which contains pyrotechnic composition
that produces a loud whistle or smoke, or both, when ignited. A small quantity
of explosive, not exceeding 50 milligrams, may also be used to produce a small
report. A squib is used to ignite the device.
(KRS 227.704)
   (D)   As used in KRS 227.700 to 227.750, DISPLAY FIREWORKS means pyrotechnic
devices or large fireworks designed primarily to produce visible or audible
effects by combustion, deflagration, or detonation. This term includes, but is
not limited to, firecrackers containing more than two grains (130 milligrams)
of explosive composition, aerial shells containing more than 40 grams of
pyrotechnic composition, and other display pieces which exceed the limits for
classification as consumer fireworks. DISPLAY FIREWORKS are defined by the
Consumer Product Safety Commission in CPSC, 16 C.F.R. parts 1500 and 1507, and
are classified as Class B explosives by the U.S. Department of Transportation.
(KRS 227.706)
   (E)   Legality of these items is as follows.
      (1)   Items described in division (B) above are legal for retail sale,
provided all applicable federal and state requirements with respect thereto are
met.
      (2)   Items described in division (D) above are not legal for retail sale
but are legal under permits granted pursuant to this subchapter for the
purposes specified in this subchapter for public displays and may be sold at
wholesale as provided in this subchapter.
      (3)   Items described in division (C) above are legal for retail sale,
provided all applicable federal and state requirements with respect thereto are
met.
(KRS 227.708)
(Prior Code, § 93.01)
§ 93.02 SALE OR USE PROHIBITED; EXCEPTION FOR PUBLIC DISPLAY.
   No person, firm, copartnership, or corporation shall offer for sale, expose
for sale, sell at retail, or keep with intent to sell, possess, use, or explode
any display fireworks, except for the following:
   (A)   (1)   The Chief of the Fire Department or other authorized city
official may grant permits for supervised public displays of fireworks by the
city, fair associations, amusement parks, and other organizations or groups of
individuals. Every display shall be handled by a competent display operator to
be approved by the public official by whom the permit is granted, and shall be
of a character, and so located, discharged, or fired as in the opinion of the
official, after proper inspection, to not be hazardous to property or endanger
any person. COMPETENT DISPLAY OPERATOR shall be defined as the person with
overall responsibility for the operation and safety of a fireworks display. The
competent display operator shall have a Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms,
and Explosives (ATF) license and have participated as an assistant in firing at
least five public displays. A COMPETENT DISPLAY OPERATOR is also an employee
possessor; or
      (2)   A permit under this division (A) shall be issued only to a
competent display operator holding an ATF license. At least one competent
display operator shall be on site during display set-up and firing. This
competent display operator shall maintain a copy of the permit application, as
signed by the local authority having jurisdiction as identified in this
section, on site and at all times the display is in place, and shall be
presented on demand of the State Fire Marshal or local fire chief. All public
displays that require issuance of a permit shall be conducted in accordance
with the provisions of National Fire Protection Association (NFPA) 1123 – Code
for Fireworks Display (adopted edition). Permits shall be filed with the State
Fire Marshal at least 15 days in advance of the date of the display. After the
privilege is granted, sales, possession, use, and distribution of fireworks for
the display shall be lawful for that purpose only. No permit granted under this
division (A) shall be transferable. For the purposes of this division (A),
PUBLIC DISPLAY OF FIREWORKS shall include the use of pyrotechnic devices or
pyrotechnic materials before a proximate audience, whether indoors or outdoors.
Any person remaining within the display area shall be identified as licensed by
the ATF, or an employee thereof, or be an assistant in training to become a
competent display operator. All persons remaining within the display area shall
be at least 18 years of age. The Commissioner of the Department of Housing,
Buildings, and Construction with recommendation from the State Fire Marshal
shall promulgate administrative regulations in accordance with KRS Ch. 13A to
administer the provisions of this division (A). The regulations shall address
the process by which permits are issued and any other procedures that are
reasonably necessary to effectuate this division (A).
   (B)   The sale, at wholesale, of any display fireworks for permitted
displays by any resident manufacturer, wholesaler, dealer, or jobber, in
accordance with regulations of the U.S. Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms,
and Explosives if the sale is to the person holding a display permit as
outlined in division (A) above. The permit holder shall present the permit
along with other verifiable identification at the time of sale;
   (C)   The sale of display fireworks in accordance with a license issued by
the U.S. Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms, and Explosives;
   (D)   The sale and use in emergency situations of pyrotechnic signaling
devices and distress signals for marine, aviation, and highway use;
   (E)   The use of fuses and railway torpedoes by railroads;
   (F)   The sale and use of blank cartridges for use in a show or theater or
for signal or ceremonial purpose in athletics or sports;
   (G)   The use of any pyrotechnic device by military organizations;
   (H)   The use of fireworks for agricultural purposes under the direct
supervision of the U.S. Department of the Interior or any equivalent or local
agency; and
   (I)   Nothing in this section shall prohibit a person, firm, co-partnership,
nonprofit, or corporation from offering for sale, exposing for sale, selling at
retail, keeping with intent to sell, possessing, or using consumer fireworks as
defined in §
93.01(B) and as permitted pursuant to KRS 227.715.
(KRS 227.710) (Prior Code, § 93.02) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.03 COMMON FIREWORKS; RESTRICTIONS ON SALE.
   Except as provided in §
93.02, the consumer fireworks described in §
93.01(B) may be offered for sale, sold at retail, or kept with the intent to
sell, only if the requirements of this section are met.
   (A)   Any person, firm, co-partnership, nonprofit, or business intending to
sell consumer fireworks described in §
93.01(B) shall register annually with the State Fire Marshal, who may assess a
fee of no more than $25 for each site at which fireworks shall be sold. The
registration requirement under this division (A) shall not apply to permanent
business establishments which are open year round and in which the sale of
fireworks is ancillary to the primary course of business. Each location shall
be required to charge sales tax at the current rate imposed on retailers in KRS
139.200.
   (B)   Permanent business establishments open year-round and in which the
sale of consumer fireworks is ancillary to the primary course of business shall
only be permitted to sell those consumer fireworks described in §
93.01(B)(1), or shall meet the criteria for “seasonal retailer” described in
division (C) below.
   (C)   SEASONAL RETAILERS shall be defined as any person, firm, co-
partnership, nonprofit, or corporation intending to sell “consumer fireworks”
between June 10 and July 7, or December 26 and January 4 of each year or both,
and shall include permanent businesses, temporary businesses, stores, stands,
or tents. A seasonal retailer shall register with the State Fire Marshal, who
may assess a fee of no more than $250 for each site at which fireworks shall be
sold. Each location shall be required to charge sales tax at the current rate
imposed on retailers in KRS 139.200.
   (D)   Any person, firm, co-partnership, nonprofit, or corporation intending
to sell consumer fireworks, as defined in §
93.01(B) as the primary source of business, that is not a seasonal retailer as
defined in division (C) above, shall register with the State Fire Marshal, who
may assess a fee of no more than $500 for each site at which fireworks will be
sold. Each location shall be required to charge sales tax at the current rate
imposed on retailers in KRS 139.200.
   (E)   The annual registration required by this section shall be received by
the State Fire Marshal at least 15 days prior to offering fireworks for sale at
the site for which the registration is intended. Evidence that a sales and use
tax permit has been obtained from the Department of Revenue shall be presented
to the State Fire Marshal as a condition of registration. If the registration
is received less than 15 days prior to offering fireworks for sale at the site
for which registration is intended, an additional assessment of $100 shall be
added to the initial fee.
   (F)   Each site at which fireworks are offered for sale shall have its
registration certificate displayed in a conspicuous location at the site.
   (G)   Each site at which fireworks are offered for sale shall comply with
all applicable provisions of the International Building Code, with Kentucky
Amendments (adopted edition), and NFPA 1124 (National Fire Protection
Association) – Code for the Manufacture, Transportation, Storage, and Retail
Sales of Fireworks and Pyrotechnic Articles (adopted edition).
   (H)   No person or business shall give, offer for sale, or sell any consumer
fireworks listed in §
93.01(B) to any person under 18 years of age.
   (I)   No person under 18 years of age may be employed by a fireworks
distribution facility or manufacturing facility. No person under 18 years of
age shall sell consumer fireworks at a consumer fireworks retail sales facility
registered under this section unless the individual is supervised by a parent
or guardian.
   (J)   The State Fire Marshal may revoke the registration of any site which
is in violation of a requirement of this section, or any other requirement
provided pursuant to this subchapter. If the violation renders any property
especially susceptible to fire loss, and there is present such hazard to human
life or limb that the public safety imperatively requires emergency action, the
State Fire Marshal may take that action, as provided in KRS 227.330(6).
   (K)   A person lawfully possessing consumer fireworks, as defined in §
93.01(B) may use those items if:
      (1)   He or she is at least 18 years of age;
      (2)   Fireworks are not ignited within 200 feet of any structure,
vehicle, or any other person; and
      (3)   Use of the fireworks does not place him or her in violation of any
lawfully enacted local ordinance.
(KRS 227.715) (Prior Code, § 93.03) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.04 BOND OR LIABILITY INSURANCE REQUIREMENT.
   No permit shall be issued under §
93.02 unless the applicant shall give bond or evidence of liability insurance
deemed adequate by the official to whom application for the permit is made, in
a sum not less than $1,000,000; however, the appropriate city official or the
State Fire Marshal may require a larger amount if in his or her judgment the
situation requires it, conditioned for the payment of all damages which may be
caused thereby either to a person or to property by reason of the permitted
display, and arising from any acts of the licensee, his or her agents,
employees, or subcontractors.
(KRS 227.720) (Prior Code, § 93.04) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.05 EXEMPTED SALES AND USES.
   Nothing in this subchapter shall prevent the retail sale and use of
explosives or signaling flares used in the course of ordinary business or
industry; gold star producing sparklers, which contain no magnesium or
chlorate; toy snakes which contain no mercury; smoke novelties and party
novelties, which contain less than 0.25 grain of explosive mixture; shells or
cartridges, used as ammunition in firearms; blank cartridges for a show or
theatre, or for signal or ceremonial purposes in athletics or sports, or for
use by military organizations; or the sale of any kind of fireworks, provided
the same are to be shipped by the seller directly out of the state.
(KRS 227.730) (Prior Code, § 93.05)
§ 93.06 DESTRUCTION OF FIREWORKS.
   (A)   The State Fire Marshal, or any fire department having jurisdiction
which has been deputized to act on behalf of the State Fire Marshal, shall
cause to be removed at the expense of the owner all stocks of fireworks which
are stored and held in violation of this subchapter. After a period of 60 days,
the seized fireworks may be offered for sale by closed bid to a properly
certified fireworks wholesaler.
   (B)   After a period of 60 days, the seized fireworks may be offered for
sale by closed bid to a properly certified manufacturer, distributor, or
wholesaler. All seized fireworks or explosives with a Class 1.3G or “display”
designation shall require the notification of the U.S. Bureau of Alcohol,
Tobacco, Firearms, and Explosives. The State Fire Marshal shall provide the
owner or possessor a receipt containing the complete inventory of any fireworks
seized within five business days of the seizure.
   (C)   Before any seized fireworks may be disposed of:
      (1)   If the owner of the seized fireworks is known to the State Fire
Marshal, the State Fire Marshal shall give notice by registered mail or
personal service to the owner of the State Fire Marshal’s intention to dispose
of the fireworks. The notice shall inform the owner of the State Fire Marshal’s
intent. The State Fire Marshal shall conduct an administrative hearing in
accordance with KRS Ch. 13B concerning the disposal of fireworks; or
      (2)   If the identity of the owner of any seized fireworks is not known
to the State Fire Marshal, the State Fire Marshal shall cause to be published,
in a newspaper of general circulation in the county in which the seizure was
made, notice of the seizure, and of the State Fire Marshal’s intention to
dispose of the fireworks. The notice shall be published once each week for
three consecutive weeks. If no person claims ownership of the fireworks within
ten days of the date of the last publication, the State Fire Marshal may
proceed with disposal of the fireworks. If the owner does claim the fireworks
within ten days of the date of the last publication, a hearing as set out in
division (C)(1) above shall be held.
   (D)   Nothing in KRS 227.700 to 227.750 shall restrict a local government
from enacting ordinances that affect the sale or use of fireworks within its
jurisdiction.
(KRS 227.750) (Prior Code, § 93.06)
FIRE PREVENTION
§ 93.20 BLASTING PERMIT.
   No person shall cause a blast to occur within the city without making
application in writing beforehand, setting forth the exact nature of the
intended operation, and receiving a permit to blast from the City Commission or
other authorized city official. The City Commission or other authorized city
official, before granting the permit, may require the applicant to provide a
bond to indemnify the city and all other persons against injury or damages
which might result from the proposed blasting.
(Prior Code, § 93.20) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.21 STORAGE OF FLAMMABLES AND OTHER MATTER.
   (A)   All flammable or combustible materials shall be arranged and stored in
a manner which affords reasonable safety against the danger of fire.
   (B)   Waste paper, ashes, oil rags, waste rags, excelsior, or any material
of a similar hazardous nature shall not be accumulated in any cellar or any
other portion of any building of any kind. Proper fireproof receptacles shall
be provided for these hazardous materials.
   (C)   No matter shall be stored or arranged in a manner which impedes or
prevents access to or exit from any premises in case of fire.
(Prior Code, § 93.21) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is provided shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be
fined not more than $500.
   (B)   Any person violating the provisions of §§
93.02 or
93.03, the regulations issued thereunder or any order issued thereunder, or who
knowingly induces another, directly or indirectly, to violate the provisions of
those sections, shall be fined not more than $1,000, or imprisoned for not more
than 30 days, or both.
(KRS 227.990(4)) (Prior Code, § 93.99)
CHAPTER 94: LITTERING
Section
   
94.01   Throwing litter from vehicle
   
94.02   Tracking foreign matter on streets
   
94.03   Hauling loose material
   
94.04   Sweeping litter into gutters
   
94.05   Litter on private property
 
   
94.99   Penalty
§ 94.01 THROWING LITTER FROM VEHICLE.
   No person while a driver or passenger in a vehicle shall throw or deposit
litter upon any street or other public place within the city or upon private
property.
(Prior Code, § 94.01) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.02 TRACKING FOREIGN MATTER ON STREETS.
   No person shall drive or move any vehicle or truck within the city, the
wheels or tires of which carry onto or deposit upon any street, alley, or other
public place mud, dirt, sticky substances, litter, or foreign matter of any
kind.
(Prior Code, § 94.02) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.03 HAULING LOOSE MATERIAL.
   Every person hauling or causing to be hauled dirt, sand, gravel, cement,
fill dirt, or loose material of any kind in or upon any street, alley,
sidewalk, or other public place shall haul it or cause it to be hauled in
vehicles provided with tight boxes or beds so constructed or loaded as to
prevent any of the contents from falling or being thrown, blown, or deposited
upon any street, alley, sidewalk, or other public place. Any materials which
fall from or which are thrown, blown, or deposited from any vehicle upon any
street, alley, sidewalk, or other public place shall be removed immediately by
the person in charge of the vehicle.
(Prior Code, § 94.03) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.04 SWEEPING LITTER INTO GUTTERS.
   No person shall sweep into or deposit in any gutter, street, or other public
place within the city the accumulation of litter from any building or lot or
from any public or private sidewalk or driveway. Persons owning or occupying
property shall keep the sidewalk in front of their premises free of litter.
(Prior Code, § 94.04) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.05 LITTER ON PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   (A)   No person shall throw or deposit litter on any occupied private
property within the city, whether owned by that person or not, except that the
owner or person in control of private property may maintain authorized private
receptacles for collection in such a manner that litter will be prevented from
being carried or deposited by the elements upon streets, sidewalks, or other
public places, or upon any private property.
   (B)   No person shall throw or deposit litter on any open or vacant private
property within the city, whether owned by that person or not.
(Prior Code, § 94.05) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any of the provisions of this chapter shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and shall be fined not more than $500. Each day the violation is
committed or permitted to continue shall constitute a separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 94.99)
CHAPTER 95: NOISE
Section
   
95.01   Unusual and loud noise prohibited
 
   
95.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Vehicle noise, see §
71.37
   Animals, see §
90.22
§ 95.01 UNUSUAL AND LOUD NOISE PROHIBITED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to create or
assist in creating any unreasonably loud and disturbing noise in the city.
Noise of such character, intensity, and duration as to be detrimental to the
public health, welfare, and peace is prohibited.
   (B)   The following acts, among others, are declared to be loud and
disturbing noises in violation of this section, but this enumeration shall not
be deemed to be exclusive:
      (1)   The playing of any radio, phonograph, or other musical instrument
in a manner or with such volume, particularly during the hours between 11:00
p.m. and 7:00 a.m., as to annoy or disturb the quiet, comfort, or repose of any
person in any dwelling, hotel, or other type of residence;
      (2)   The blowing of any whistle, except to give notice of the time to
begin or stop work or as a warning of danger;
      (3)   The sounding of any bell or gong attached to any building or
premises which disturbs the quiet or repose of persons in the vicinity thereof;
      (4)   The conducting, operating, or maintaining of any garage or service
station in any residential area so as to cause loud or offensive noises to be
emitted therefrom between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. on weekdays or
on Sundays;
      (5)   The creation of any excessive noise on any street adjacent to any
school, institution of learning, or court while the same are in session, or
within 150 feet of any hospital, which unreasonably interferes with the working
of those institutions, provided conspicuous signs are displayed in those
streets indicating that the area is a school, court, or hospital area;
      (6)   The creation of any excessive noise on Sundays on any street
adjacent to any church, provided conspicuous signs are displayed in such
streets adjacent to churches indicating that the same is a church street;
      (7)   The erection (including excavation), demolition, alteration, or
repair of any building in a residential or business district other than between
the hours of 7:00 a.m. and 6:00 p.m., on weekdays, except in the case of urgent
necessity in the interest of public safety and then only with a permit from the
City Commission;
      (8)   The use of any mechanical device operated by compressed air unless
the noise created thereby is effectively muffled and reduced;
      (9)   The shouting and crying of peddlers, barkers, hawkers, and vendors
which disturbs the quiet and peace of the neighborhood;
      (10)   The use of any drum, loud speaker, or other instrument or device
for the purpose of attracting attention by creation of noise to any
performance, show, or sale or display of merchandise; and/or
      (11)   The use of any mechanical loud speakers or amplifiers on trucks or
other moving vehicles for advertising purposes or other purposes except where
specific license is received from the City Commission.
(Prior Code, § 95.01) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.99 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm, or corporation violating any provision of this chapter
shall, upon conviction, be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be punished by a
fine not to exceed $500. Each day such violation shall continue shall
constitute a separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 95.99)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   PEDDLERS, ITINERANT MERCHANTS, AND SOLICITORS
      
111.   CABLE FRANCHISES
      
112.   INSURANCE COMPANIES
      
113.   RENTAL PROPERTIES
CHAPTER 110: PEDDLERS, ITINERANT MERCHANTS, AND SOLICITORS
Section
   
110.01   Definitions
   
110.02   Prohibition
   
110.03   Permit requirement
   
110.04   Application procedure
   
110.05   Duty of City Clerk
   
110.06   Standards for issuance
   
110.07   Revocation procedure
   
110.08   Standards for revocation
   
110.09   Appeal procedure
   
110.10   Exhibition of identification
   
110.11   Enforcement
 
   
110.99   Penalty
§ 110.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUSINESS. The business carried on by any person who is an itinerant
merchant, peddler, or solicitor, as defined in this section.
   GOODS. Merchandise of any description whatsoever, and includes, but is not
restricted to, wares and foodstuffs.
   ITINERANT MERCHANT. Any person, whether as owner, agent, or consignee, who
engages in a temporary business of selling goods within the city and who, in
the furtherance of the business, uses any building, structure, vehicle, or any
place within the city.
   PEDDLER.
      (1)   Any person who travels from place to place by any means carrying
goods for sale or making sales or making deliveries;
      (2)   Any person who, without traveling from place to place, sells or
offers goods for sale from any public place within the city; and
      (3)   A person who is a PEDDLER is not an itinerant merchant.
   SOLICITOR. Any person who travels by any means from place to place, taking
or attempting to take orders for sale of goods to be delivered in the future or
for services to be performed in the future. A person who is a SOLICITOR is not
a peddler.
(Ord. 1-04, passed 2-12-2004)
§ 110.02 PROHIBITION.
   It shall be prohibited and unlawful for any person to:
   (A)   Engage in the business of door-to-door sales of any merchandise and
services of any type; and
   (B)   Solicit in furtherance of a business or enterprise within the city
without first applying for and obtaining a permit to do so from the city.
(Ord. 1-04, passed 2-12-2004) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.03 PERMIT REQUIREMENT.
   (A)   Any person who is an itinerant merchant, peddler, or solicitor shall
obtain a permit before engaging in the temporary business of selling goods,
peddling, and soliciting business within the city.
   (B)   An application for a permit shall be made by the itinerant merchant,
peddler, or solicitor, at a minimum, 30 days prior to the effective date of the
permit.
   (C)   The fee for the permit required by this chapter shall be $100 as set
from time to time by the Commission or the appropriate legislative body of the
city.
   (D)   No permit issued under this chapter shall be transferable.
   (E)   All permits issued under this chapter shall expire 35 days after the
date of issuance thereof.
(Ord. 1-04, passed 2-12-2004)
§ 110.04 APPLICATION PROCEDURE.
   (A)   (1)   All applicants for permits required by this chapter shall file
an application with the City Clerk. This application shall be signed by the
applicant, if an individual; or by all partners, if a partnership; or by the
president, if a corporation.
      (2)   The applicant may be requested to provide information concerning
the following items:
         (a)   The name and address of the applicant;
         (b)   1.   The name of the individual having management authority or
supervision of the applicant’s business during the time the door-to-door sales,
peddling, or soliciting is proposed to be carried on in the city;
            2.   The local address of the individual;
            3.   The permanent address of the individual; and
            4.   The capacity in which the individual will act.
         (c)   The name and address of the person, if any, for whose purpose
the business, door-to-door sales, peddling, or soliciting will be carried on,
and if a corporation, the state of incorporation;
         (d)   The time period or periods during which it is proposed to carry
on the applicant’s business of door-to-door sales, peddling, or soliciting;
         (e)   1.   The nature, character, and quality of the goods or services
to be offered for sale, peddled, solicited, or delivered;
            2.   If goods, their invoice value, and whether they are to be sold
by sample as well as from stock; and
            3.   If goods, where and by whom the goods are manufactured or
grown, and where the goods are at the time of application;
         (f)   The nature of the advertising proposed to be done for and in
furtherance of the business, door-to-door sales, peddling, or soliciting; and
         (g)   Whether or not the applicant, or the individual identified in
division (A)(2)(b)1. above, or the person identified in division (A)(2)(c)
above has been convicted of any crime or misdemeanor and, if so, the nature of
each offense and the penalty assessed for each offense.
   (B)   Applicants for permits may be required to provide information
concerning the following items, in addition to those requested under division
(A) above:
      (1)   A description of the applicant; and
      (2)   A description of any vehicle proposed to be used in the business,
door-to-door sales, peddling, or soliciting, including its registration number,
if any.
   (C)   All applicants for permits required by this chapter shall attach to
their applications the following:
      (1)   If required by the city, copies of all printed advertising proposed
to be used in connection with the applicant’s business; and
      (2)   If required by the city, credentials from the person, if any, for
which the applicant proposes to do business, authorizing the applicant to act
as the representative.
   (D)   If the applicant is a corporation, there shall be stated on the
application form the date of incorporation, the state of incorporation, and, if
the applicant is a corporation formed in a state other than the commonwealth,
the date on which such corporation is qualified to transact business as a
foreign corporation in this state;
   (E)   A statement showing the kind of business proposed to be conducted, the
length of time for which the applicant desires to transact such business, and
the location of the proposed place of business;
   (F)   An inventory of the aggregate value of any goods, wares, or
merchandise to be offered for sale during the permit period;
   (G)   A statement that the applicant has acquired all other required city,
county, and state permits;
   (H)   The applicant’s sales and use tax permit number or temporary vendor’s
registration number;
   (I)   The name and permanent address of the applicant’s registered agent or
office;
   (J)   The absence of any of the above information, if required by the city,
shall result in the denial of such permit by the City Clerk; and
   (K)   Applicants who propose to handle foodstuffs shall also attach to their
application, in addition to any attachments required under division (C) above,
a statement from a licensed physician, dated not more than ten days prior to
the date of application, certifying the applicant to be free of contagious or
communicable disease.
(Ord. 1-04, passed 2-12-2004; Ord. 7, Series 2015, passed 2-12-2015) Penalty,
see §
110.99
§ 110.05 DUTY OF CITY CLERK.
   The City Clerk shall inform the Commission of any and all requests under
this chapter for permits at the Commission meetings. The City Clerk shall
forward a copy of each approved permit application to the office of the
Commission and to the office of the Chief of Police within 24 hours of
approval.
(Ord. 1-04, passed 2-12-2004)
§ 110.06 STANDARDS FOR ISSUANCE.
   (A)   Upon receipt of an application, an investigation of the applicant’s
business reputation and moral character shall be made.
   (B)   (1)   The application shall be approved unless the investigation
discloses tangible evidence that the conduct of the applicant’s business of
door-to-door sales, peddling, or soliciting within the city would pose a
substantial threat to the public health, safety, morals, or general welfare.
      (2)   In particular, tangible evidence that the applicant has done or
possesses any of the following will constitute valid reasons for denial of an
application for permit under this chapter:
         (a)   Has been convicted of a crime of moral turpitude;
         (b)   Has made willful misstatements in the application;
         (c)   Has committed prior violations of city ordinances pertaining to
itinerant merchants, peddlers, solicitors, and the like;
         (d)   Has committed prior fraudulent acts;
         (e)   Has a record of continual breaches of solicited contracts; or
         (f)   Has an unsatisfactory moral character.
(Ord. 1-04, passed 2-12-2004)
§ 110.07 REVOCATION PROCEDURE.
   Any permit granted under this chapter may be revoked by the City Clerk after
notice and hearing, pursuant to the standards set forth in §
110.08. Notice of hearing for revocation shall be given in writing, setting
forth specifically the grounds of the complaint, and the time and place of the
hearing. The notice shall be mailed to the permittee at his or her last known
address, at least ten days prior to the date set for the hearing.
(Ord. 1-04, passed 2-12-2004)
§ 110.08 STANDARDS FOR REVOCATION.
   A permit granted under this chapter may be revoked for any of the following
reasons:
   (A)   Any fraud or misrepresentation contained in the permit application;
   (B)   Any fraud, misrepresentation, or false statement made in connection
with the business being conducted under the permit;
   (C)   Any violation of this chapter;
   (D)   Conviction of the permittee of any felony, or conviction of the
permittee of any misdemeanor involving moral turpitude; or
   (E)   Conducting the permitted business of door-to-door sales, peddling, or
soliciting in an unlawful manner or in a way as to constitute a menace to the
health, safety, morals, or general welfare of the public.
(Ord. 1-04, passed 2-12-2004) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.09 APPEAL PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Any person aggrieved by a decision under §§
110.06, 110.07, or 110.08 shall have the right to appeal to the appropriate
legislative body of the city. The appeal shall be taken by filing with the
appropriate legislative body of the city, within 14 days after notice of the
decision has been mailed to the aggrieved person’s last known address, a
written statement setting forth the grounds for appeal. The appropriate
legislative body of the city shall set the time and place for a hearing, and
notice for the hearing shall be given to the person in the same manner as
provided in §
110.07.
   (B)   The order of the legislative body after the hearing shall be final.
(Ord. 1-04, passed 2-12-2004)
§ 110.10 EXHIBITION OF IDENTIFICATION.
   (A)   Any permit issued to an itinerant merchant under this chapter shall be
posted conspicuously in or at the place named therein. In the event more than
one place within the city shall be used to conduct the business permitted,
separate permits shall be issued for each place.
   (B)   The City Clerk shall issue a permit to each peddler and solicitor who
has applied for and received a permit under this chapter. The permit shall
contain the words “permitted peddler” or “permitted solicitor”. The permit
shall clearly state the expiration date of the permit and the number of the
permit. The permit shall be kept with the permittee during the time as he or
she is engaged in the business permitted.
(Ord. 1-04, passed 2-12-2004) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.11 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Any violation of this chapter shall subject the offender to fines,
penalties, and forfeitures that may be imposed by law. The city may secure
injunctions and abatement orders, when appropriate, to ensure compliance with
this chapter or ordinances as authorized by the Kentucky Revised Statutes.
   (B)   This chapter may be enforced by any one or in combination of the
remedies authorized by this chapter and as authorized by the Kentucky Revised
Statutes.
(Ord. 1-04, passed 2-12-2004)
§ 110.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Criminal.
      (1)   Any person who shall violate any provision of this chapter shall be
fined $100.
      (2)   Where Kentucky Revised Statutes mandates a fine higher than that
stipulated herein, the fine contained in the Kentucky Revised Statutes shall
apply.
      (3)   Any continuing violation of this chapter shall be considered a
separate and distinct offense for each day on which a violation occurs or
continues, and a separate penalty may be imposed therefor.
   (B)   Civil.
      (1)   Any person who shall violate any provision of this chapter shall
subject the offender to a civil penalty in an amount equal to two times the
minimum fine prescribed in division (A) above, with a minimum civil penalty of
$100 for each violation.
      (2)   The civil penalty provided herein may be recovered by the city in a
civil action in the name of a debt if the offender does not pay the penalty
within 20 days after the offender has been cited for the ordinance violation.
As used herein, CITED shall mean notified of the violation and the penalty in
writing by an elected or appointed official of the city or the official
attorney for the city. The civil penalty may be used as an alternative or in
conjunction with the criminal penalties authorized herein.
(Ord. 1-04, passed 2-12-2004)
CHAPTER 111: CABLE FRANCHISES
Section
General Provisions
   
111.001   Declaration of findings
   
111.002   Title
   
111.003   Applicability
   
111.004   Preservation of authority
   
111.005   Public inspection of records
   
111.006   Indemnification
   
111.007   Compliance with laws
   
111.008   Enforcement; attorney’s fees
   
111.009   Relationship with parties
   
111.010   Definitions
Franchise Requirements and Characteristics
   
111.025   Unlawful to operate without a franchise
   
111.026   Franchises nonexclusive
   
111.027   Nature of rights granted by any franchise
   
111.028   Application and application fee required
   
111.029   Standards and procedures for approval or renewal of franchises
   
111.030   Acceptance and effective date of franchise
   
111.031   Use of rights-of-way; police powers; franchisee’s use subordinate
   
111.032   Emergencies
   
111.033   Term
   
111.034   Franchise fees
   
111.035   Timing of payment of franchise fees
   
111.036   Interest on late payments and underpayments
   
111.037   Fee statement
   
111.038   No accord and satisfaction
   
111.039   Description of communications service
   
111.040   Franchise fee not a tax; payment of taxes
   
111.041   Assignment of franchise
   
111.042   Forfeiture of franchise and privilege
   
111.043   Security for payment of fees
   
111.044   Special rules for governmental entities
   
111.045   Franchisees providing communications service to customers
Rights-Of-Way Management and Facilities Requirements
   
111.060   Encroachment permit
   
111.061   Additional facilities requirements; planned infrastructure
   
111.062   Removal of facilities
   
111.063   Relocation of facilities
   
111.064   Franchise responsible for costs
   
111.065   Insurance and bonds
   
111.066   Permits
   
111.067   Notification
   
111.068   Standards
   
111.069   Traffic
   
111.070   Delay
   
111.071   Special exceptions
   
111.072   Inspections
   
111.073   Repair of sunken pavement over excavation
   
111.074   Materials and workmanship
Private Communications Facilities
   
111.090   Application for license
   
111.091   Conditions of license
   
111.092   Compensation
Administration of Franchise
   
111.105   City’s responsibility
   
111.106   Non-enforcement by the city
   
111.107   Publication of notices
   
111.108   Transitional provisions
   
111.109   Liabilities and penalties
   
111.110   Remedies not exclusive
   
111.111   Review, termination, and cancellation
   
111.112   Foreclosure; receivership
   
111.113   Reports
   
111.114   Books and records of the franchise
   
111.115   Time of the essence
   
111.116   Equal employment opportunity
   
111.117   Violations
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 111.001 DECLARATION OF FINDINGS.
   The city hereby declares as a legislative finding that the rights-of-way
controlled by the city:
   (A)   Are a unique and physically-limited resource;
   (B)   Are critical to the travel and transport of persons and property in
the city;
   (C)   Are intended for public uses and must be managed and controlled
consistent with that intent;
   (D)   Can be partially occupied by the facilities of providers of
communications service, to the enhancement of the health, welfare, and general
economic well-being of the city and its citizens; and
   (E)   Should be subject to specific additional regulations imposed in a
competitively neutral, non-discriminatory, and non-discretionary manner as
established by this chapter, to ensure coordination of providers of
communications service, to maximize available space, and to facilitate entry of
a maximum number of providers of communications service and other services in
the public interest.
(Ord. 4, Series 2020, passed 10-8-2020)
§ 111.002 TITLE.
   This chapter may be referred to and cited as the “Communications Service
Franchise Ordinance”.
(Ord. 4, Series 2020, passed 10-8-2020)
§ 111.003 APPLICABILITY.
   (A)   The requirements of this chapter shall apply to the full extent of the
terms herein, and shall be limited in scope or application only to the extent
as may be required by applicable federal or state law, including such changes
in applicable law as may be hereinafter enacted.
   (B)   No provisions of this chapter shall be disregarded pursuant to this
section, except on express application to and determination by the city to such
effect, based on the specific factual circumstances demonstrated. The
provisions of this chapter shall be deemed incorporated in each franchise
granted.
(Ord. 4, Series 2020, passed 10-8-2020)
§ 111.004 PRESERVATION OF AUTHORITY.
   (A)   Any rights granted pursuant to this chapter, and pursuant to any
franchise authorized hereunder, are subject to the authority of the city to
adopt and enforce generally applicable ordinances necessary to the health,
safety, and welfare of the public; and the Louisville Metro Public Works and
Assets Utility Policy, as may be amended from time to time (to the extent that
it is not in conflict with state or federal law, or the franchisee’s
franchise).
   (B)   Nothing in this chapter shall be deemed to waive a right, if any, that
any party may have to seek judicial or regulatory review as to the provisions
herein, or as to actions of the parties under applicable federal, state, or
local law currently in effect, or as may hereinafter be amended.
(Ord. 4, Series 2020, passed 10-8-2020)
§ 111.005 PUBLIC INSPECTION OF RECORDS.
   Certain information required to be filed with the city pursuant to this
chapter is subject to inspection and copying by the public pursuant to the
provisions of the Commonwealth Open Records Act, KRS 61.870 et seq.
(Ord. 4, Series 2020, passed 10-8-2020)
§ 111.006 INDEMNIFICATION.
   (A)   As a condition of use of the rights-of-way, each franchisee, at its
sole cost and expense, shall indemnify, protect, defend, and hold harmless the
city, its elected officials, officers, employees, and agents, from and against
any and all claims, demands, losses, damages, liabilities, fines, charges,
penalties, administrative and judicial proceedings and orders, judgments,
remedial actions of any kind, and all costs and expenses of any kind,
including, without limitation, reasonable attorney’s fees and costs of defense
arising, directly or indirectly, in whole or in part, out of or in relation to
the city’s award of the franchise to the franchisee, the rights granted to the
franchisee, or the activities performed, or failed to be performed, by the
franchisee under the franchise, or the use of the rights-of-way, except to the
extent the acts or use arise from or are caused by the negligence or willful
misconduct of the city, its elected officials, officers, or employees.
   (B)   This indemnification shall survive the expiration or termination of
any franchise or use of the rights-of-way.
   (C)   The city shall give the franchisee written notice of its obligation to
indemnify the city within ten days of the receipt of a claim or action pursuant
to this section.
   (D)   In the event any such claim arises, the city shall tender the defense
thereof to the franchisee. The franchisee shall have the right to defend,
settle, or compromise any claims arising hereunder, and the city shall
cooperative fully herein.
   (E)   If the city determines in good faith that its interests cannot be
represented by the franchisee, the franchisee shall be excused from any
obligation to indemnify the city.
(Ord. 4, Series 2020, passed 10-8-2020)
§ 111.007 COMPLIANCE WITH LAWS.
   In performing activities and exercising its rights and obligations under any
franchise, each franchisee and other holder of a franchise shall comply with
all applicable federal and state local laws, and, consistent with §
111.004, local laws, ordinances, regulations and policies, including, but not
limited to, all laws, ordinances, regulations and policies relating to the
construction and use of rights-of-way.
(Ord. 4, Series 2020, passed 10-8-2020)
§ 111.008 ENFORCEMENT; ATTORNEY’S FEES.
   The city shall be entitled to enforce this chapter, and any franchise
granted hereunder, through all remedies lawfully available. Each franchisee
shall pay the city its costs of enforcement, including, but not limited to,
reasonable attorney’s fees, in the event that the franchisee is determined
judicially to have violated the terms of a franchise.
(Ord. 4, Series 2020, passed 10-8-2020)
§ 111.009 RELATIONSHIP WITH PARTIES.
   Under no circumstances shall any franchise authorized by this chapter be
construed to create any relationship of agency, partnership, joint venture, or
employment between the city and the franchisee.
(Ord. 4, Series 2020, passed 10-8-2020)
§ 111.010 DEFINITIONS.
   For purposes of this chapter, the following terms, phrases, words, and their
derivatives, shall have the meanings set forth in this section, unless the
context clearly indicates that another meaning is intended. Words used in the
present tense include the future tense, words in the singular number include
the plural number, and words in the plural number include the singular. The
words "shall" and "will" are mandatory, and the word "may" is permissive. Words
not defined shall be given their common and ordinary meaning.
   AFFILIATE. As to any person, each person, directly or indirectly,
controlling, controlled by, or under common control with that person.
   ANTENNA. Any device that transmits or receives signals. These signals
include, but are not limited to, radio and infrared waves for voice, data, or
video communications purposes.
   APPLICABLE STANDARDS. The affected pole owner’s standards or other relevant
standards governing the design, engineering, installation, maintenance, and
operation of facilities, including the requirements and specifications of the
National Electrical Safety Code, the National Electrical Code, the Kentucky
Department of Transportation, the Occupational Safety and Health Act, the
Society of Cable Television Engineers’ Recommended Practices for Coaxial Cable
Construction and Testing and for Optical Fiber Cable Construction, and the
standards to which a new attacher and/or preexisting attacher are subject under
their applicable pole attachment agreements.
   ATTACHER. Any person, corporation, or their agents or contractors, seeking
to permanently or temporarily fasten or affix any type of facility of any kind
to a utility pole in the rights-of-way or its adjacent ground space.
   ATTACHMENT APPLICATION. The application made by an attacher to a pole owner
for attachment of a facility of any kind to a utility pole.
   COMMUNICATIONS. The transmission via the facilities, in whole or in part, of
video, audio, data, writings, signs, signals, pictures, sounds or other forms
of information or intelligence through wire, wireless or other electronic
means, regardless of the federal or state statutory or regulatory scheme to
which the transmissions may be subject.
   COMMUNICATIONS SERVICE. The transmission of communications via facilities,
to a customer, or to any other person, including a private communications
system owner's provision of communications via a private communications system,
that is within or outside the territorial limits of the city. COMMUNICATIONS
SERVICE includes, but is not limited to, “telecommunications service,”
“enhanced service,” “information service,” “Internet access service,”
“broadband service,” “cable service,” “video programming service,” “other
programming service,” and Internet-based or “over the top” video service
offerings, as those terms are now, or may in the future be, defined under
federal law. The term also includes the use of all instrumentalities,
facilities, conduits, apparatus and services or functionalities (among other
things, the receipt, forwarding, storage, generation or delivery of
communications), incidental to or designed to directly or indirectly facilitate
or accept communications.
   CUSTOMER. A person located within the territorial limits of the city who
ultimately uses or is intended to ultimately use communications service
provided by a franchisee and is the ultimate last user of a communications
service.
   FACILITIES. Any portion of a system located in, along, over, upon, under, or
through the rights-of-way.
   FCC. The Federal Communications Commission of the United States of America,
or any successor thereto.
   FRANCHISE. A FRANCHISE granted under this chapter, or any other FRANCHISE
granted by the city pursuant to §§ 163 and 164 of the Kentucky Constitution, or
by the Kentucky General Assembly prior to the adoption of §§ 163 and 164 of the
Kentucky Constitution, which permits a franchisee to install or operate any
facilities in the rights-of-way to provide communications service. Use of this
definition in this chapter is not intended to include any license or permit for
the privilege of transacting and carrying on a business within the city, as may
be required by any other ordinance or laws of the city or the state.
   FRANCHISE FEE. The fee imposed by the city on the franchisee for the use of
the rights-of-way pursuant to a franchise granted under this chapter.
   FRANCHISEE. The person to whom a franchise is granted, or its successors,
assigns, or transferees.
   LESSEE. A person who provides communications services within the city solely
by leasing facilities, and who has no control over what, where, or how any
facilities are erected, installed, maintained, operated, repaired, removed,
restored, or otherwise used.
   MAKE-READY COSTS. The costs incurred by a new attacher or a preexisting
attacher associated with the relocation, rearrangement, transfer, or alteration
of the facilities of a preexisting attacher, undertaken to enable the new
attacher’s attachment to the utility pole or similar structure, including, but
not limited to, all costs and expenses related to pre-construction inspections,
engineering, construction, and post-construction inspections and remediation.
   NEW ATTACHER. An attacher seeking to attach, fasten, or affix a new facility
to a utility pole.
   PERSON. An individual, partnership, association, corporation, joint venture,
legal entity or organization of any kind.
   POLE OWNER. A person having ownership of a pole or similar structure in the
rights-of-way to which utilities, including without limitation, electric and
communications facilities, are located or may be located, whether such
ownership is in fee simple or by franchise.
   PREEXISTING ATTACHER THIRD-PARTY USER. The owner of any currently existing
facilities on a pole or its adjacent ground space in the rights-of-way.
   PRIVATE COMMUNICATIONS SYSTEM. A system used for delivering communications
by a person solely in connection with the internal communications needs of that
person’s business, provided that the person does not use, or permit the use of,
the system to provide communications service to a customer or any other person.
   PRIVATE COMMUNICATIONS SYSTEM OWNER. A person that owns or leases a private
communications system.
   RESELLER SERVICE PROVIDER. A person who provides communications service
within the city solely by reselling communications service, and who has no
control over what, where or how any facilities are erected, installed,
maintained, operated, repaired, removed, restored or otherwise used.
   RIGHTS-OF-WAY. The surface and space on, above, and below every street,
alley, road, highway, lane or other property dedicated or commonly used, now or
hereafter, for utility purposes and facilities. RIGHTS-OF-WAY shall not include
public property owned or leased by the city and not intended for RIGHTS-OF-WAY
use, including, but not limited to, parks, public works property, buildings or
overhead lighting.
   STATE. The Commonwealth of Kentucky.
   SYSTEM. Any and all equipment, structures, materials or tangible components
located in the rights-of-way and used to provide communications service,
including, without limitation, all plant (whether inside or outside), cabinets,
surface location markers, fiber strands, electronic equipment, amplification
equipment, optic equipment, transmission and distribution structures, antennae,
lines, pipes, mains, conduit, ducts, regenerators, repeaters, vaults,
pedestals, manholes, handholds, pull boxes, splice closures, wires, cables,
towers, wave guides, and anything else designed and constructed for the purpose
of producing, receiving, amplifying or distributing communications service.
(Ord. 4, Series 2020, passed 10-8-2020)
FRANCHISE REQUIREMENTS AND CHARACTERISTICS
§ 111.025 UNLAWFUL TO OPERATE WITHOUT A FRANCHISE.
   Unless otherwise specifically authorized under applicable federal or state
law, it shall be unlawful for any person to own, erect, install, maintain,
operate, repair, replace, remove or restore any facilities in the rights-of-way
in the city that are used to provide communications services, without a valid,
unexpired franchise from the city. Unless otherwise provided hereinafter by
city ordinance, reseller service providers and lessees shall not be required to
obtain a franchise. Private communication systems shall not require a
franchise, but shall be licensed pursuant to §§
111.090 et seq..
(Ord. 4, Series 2020, passed 10-8-2020)
§ 111.026 FRANCHISES NONEXCLUSIVE.
   The authority granted by the city in any franchise shall be for the
nonexclusive use of the rights-of-way. The city specifically reserves the right
to grant, at any time, additional franchises or other rights to use the rights-
of-way for any purpose to any other person, including itself, as it deems
appropriate, subject to all applicable laws.
(Ord. 4, Series 2020, passed 10-8-2020)
§ 111.027 NATURE OF RIGHTS GRANTED BY ANY FRANCHISE.
   Franchises shall not convey title, equitable or legal, in the rights-of-way,
and shall give only the right to occupy rights-of-way, for the purposes and for
the period stated in this chapter, and as may be further modified by the
franchise, in a nondiscriminatory and competitively neutral manner. No
franchise may excuse the franchisee from obtaining appropriate access or
attachment agreements before locating its facilities on another person’s
facilities. All franchises shall be deemed to incorporate and be limited by the
provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 4, Series 2020, passed 10-8-2020)
§ 111.028 APPLICATION AND APPLICATION FEE REQUIRED.
   (A)   Applications for an original franchise granted hereunder shall be
filed with the city pursuant to the advertisement. All applications received by
the city from the applicants will become the sole property of the city.
Applicants shall submit all requested information as provided by the terms of
this chapter. The following information must be complete and verified as true
by the applicant:
      (1)   Application fee. Applications shall be accompanied by a non-
refundable application fee of $2,500, payable to the city. The application fee
shall be established at the rate set forth above, effective upon final passage
of this chapter. Thereafter, the application fee shall be increased every two
years, in increments of ten dollars, if required, based on the most recently-
published Consumer Price Index (CPI) at the time. The application fee shall
defray, in whole or in part, the city’s costs to process any application filed
under this chapter, and to negotiate, award and administer any franchise.
      (2)   Name and address of applicant. The applicant’s name, address, e-
mail address and telephone and facsimile numbers; date of application and
signature(s) of applicant or appropriate corporate officer(s); the name,
address and e-mail address, and telephone and facsimile numbers of a local
representative who shall be reasonably available at all times; and information
regarding how to contact the local representative in an emergency.
      (3)   Description of proposed system. Applicants for an original
franchise to construct a new system shall provide a description of the proposed
system. At a minimum, the description shall include:
         (a)   A general description of the project by geographical area.
         (b)   A description of the proposed system components, including, but
not be limited to:
            1.   The anticipated number and general location of small cell
antennae;
            2.   The location of aerial and underground fiber. Where possible,
provide estimated percentages of aerial and underground fiber;
            3.   The anticipated ground level elements (GLEs) and general
locations;
         (c)   For underground fiber installation, discuss proposed
installation methodologies. The narrative shall address compliance with FCC
standards as related to applicable equipment, such as small cell antennae and
current acceptable RF design standards currently in practice, as well as to
those standards found in the Louisville Metro Public Works and Assets Utility
Policy;
         (d)   Discuss anticipated project phasing, based on geographic and/or
right-of-way limitations, limitations imposed by local events, and those
internal limitations affected by finance and project logistics.
      (4)   Communications service. The applicant shall provide a statement
setting forth a general description of the communications service the applicant
plans to provide over the system.
      (5)   Applicant organization. The applicant shall be a corporation,
limited liability company, partnership or other business entity authorized to
do business in the state, as certified by the Secretary of Stale. The applicant
must fully disclose the ownership of the proposed facilities and system.
      (6)   Additional requirements.
         (a)   Supplementary, additional or other information that the
applicant deems reasonable for consideration may be submitted at the same time
as its application, but must be separately bound and submitted with three
copies. The city may, at its discretion, consider the additional information as
part of the application.
         (b)   Applications may be modified at any time prior to the opening of
the applications, provided that any modifications must be duly executed in the
manner that the applicant’s application must be executed.
         (c)   A copy of the applicant’s certificate of authority from the
Public Service Commission (“PSC”) where the applicant is lawfully required to
have such certificate from the PSC.
         (d)   A copy of the applicant’s certificate of authority from the FCC
where the applicant is lawfully required to have such certificate from the FCC.
         (e)   A copy of all insurance certificates required under this
chapter.
         (f)   A statement, signed by the applicant, that the applicant agrees
to be bound by all provisions of the franchise, and agrees to obtain all
applicable permits and authorizations prior to constructing, installing, or
operating a system in the rights-of-way.
         (g)   The information provided by applicant shall be certified as true
and correct, and the applicant shall be responsible to certify to the city any
material changes to the information provided in the completed application
during the term of any franchise.
      (7)   Supplementation to applications. The city reserves the right to
require such supplementary, additional or other information that it deems
reasonably necessary for its determinations.
      (8)   The city’s rights reserved. The city reserves the right to waive
all formalities and/or technicalities where the best interest of the city may
be served, provided that it shall exercise this right in a nondiscriminatory
and competitively neutral manner.
(Ord. 4, Series 2020, passed 10-8-2020)
§ 111.029 STANDARDS FOR PROCEDURES FOR APPROVAL OR RENEWAL OF FRANCHISES.
   (A)   Franchises shall be granted in accordance with Kentucky Constitution
§§ 163 and 164. The city shall grant franchises or renewals to any eligible
franchisee for the right and privilege to construct, own, operate, repair,
replace and maintain facilities in, through and along the city's rights-of-way,
for the purposes of providing communications service on a nonexclusive basis
within the city, subject, however, to the standards, terms and conditions set
forth within this chapter, and any special conditions as may be provided for in
the franchise.
   (B)   All franchisees shall be required to obtain and maintain any necessary
and lawful permit, license certification, grant, registration or any other
authorization required by any appropriate governmental entity, including, but
not limited to, the city, the FCC and the PSC.
   (C)   The city may establish standard franchises, setting forth the minimum
requirements for all franchisees.
   (D)   Renewals of franchises granted to cable operators shall be governed by
and comply with the provisions of § 626 of the federal Cable Act, 47 U.S.C. §
546, or any such successor statute, and applicable law.
(Ord. 4, Series 2020, passed 10-8-2020)
§ 111.030 ACCEPTANCE AND EFFECTIVE DATE OF FRANCHISE.
   Any franchise granted hereunder, together with the rights, privileges, and
authority granted thereby, shall take effect and be in force from and after the
effective date of a resolution granting a franchise hereunder; provided, that
on or before that date the franchisee shall:
   (A)   Enter into and execute such agreements and documents as required by
the city that are consistent with the terms and provisions of this chapter and
applicable law;
   (B)   File a bond or bonds as required in this chapter; and
   (C)   Advise the city, in writing, of the franchisee’s address for mail and
official notifications from the city.
(Ord. 4, Series 2020, passed 10-8-2020)
§ 111.031 USE OF RIGHTS-OF-WAY; POLICE POWERS; FRANCHISEE’S USE SUBORDINATE.
   (A)   A franchisee shall construct and maintain its facilities in accordance
with all applicable federal, state, and local laws, including all permit
requirements, the Louisville Metro Public Works and Assets Utility Policy, and
associated fee payments, and all other city codes and ordinances in effect as
of the date of the award of its franchise, or as thereafter adopted or amended,
to the extent permitted by state or federal law, subject to §
111.004.
   (B)   The grant of a franchise does not in any way affect the continuing
authority of the city through the proper exercise of its home rule or statutory
powers to adopt and enforce ordinances necessary to provide for the health,
safety, and welfare of the public. The city makes no express or implied
representation or warranty regarding its rights to authorize the installation
or construction of facilities on any particular segment of the rights-of-way.
   (C)   The burden and responsibility for making all such determinations in
advance of construction or installation shall be entirely upon the franchisee.
The use of the rights-of-way authorized by any franchise shall in all matters
be subordinate to the city’s use and rights therein.
   (D)   Without limiting the generality of the foregoing:
      (1)   All rights and privileges granted herein are subject to the police
powers of the city and its rights under applicable laws and regulations to
regulate the construction, operation, and maintenance of the franchisee’s
system, subject to §
111.004, including, but not limited to, the right to adopt and enforce
additional ordinances and regulations as the city shall find necessary in the
exercise of its police powers; the right to adopt and enforce applicable
zoning, building, permitting, and safety ordinances and regulations; the right
to adopt and enforce regulations relating to equal employment opportunities;
and the right to adopt and enforce ordinances and regulations concerning
rights-of-way and utility standards;
      (2)   The city reserves the right to exercise its police powers. Any
conflict between the provisions of this chapter or a franchise and any other
present or future lawful exercise of the city’s police powers shall be resolved
in favor of the franchise;
      (3)   The franchisee shall not be excused from complying with any of the
requirements of this chapter, or any subsequently adopted amendments to this
chapter, by any failure of the city on any one or more occasions to seek, or
insist upon, compliance with such requirements or provisions.
(Ord. 4, Series 2020, passed 10-8-2020)
§ 111.032 EMERGENCIES.
   (A)   The franchisee shall assign a management level person to coordinate
with, and assist the city in the development of emergency plans.
   (B)   If at any time, in case of fire or disaster or other emergency
situation in the city, it shall become necessary, in the reasonable judgment of
the city, to cut, raise, lower, or relocate any facilities, such cutting,
raising, lowering, or relocating may be done, and any repairs rendered
necessary thereby, shall be made by the franchisee at its sole expense.
(Ord. 4, Series 2020, passed 10-8-2020)
§ 111.033 TERM.
   A franchise shall be for a term not to exceed 20 years.
(Ord. 4, Series 2020, passed 10-8-2020)
§ 111.034 FRANCHISE FEES.
   During any period of time which the city opts to forego imposing a franchise
fee, and to instead participate in the Multichannel Video Programming and
Service Tax system set forth under KRS 136.600 et seq., a franchisee shall not
be required to pay franchise fees. Before imposing franchise fees, the city
will provide at least 60 days’ prior written notice to current franchisees. If
at anytime the city elects to exercise its constitutional right to impose and
collect franchise fees, the franchisee’s first franchise fee payment under this
chapter shall be paid to the city the later of 120 days after the election, or
30 days after the last day of the first calendar quarter expiring after the
franchisee received written notice from the city that the city has opted to
exercise its constitutional right to impose and collect franchisee fees.
(Ord. 4, Series 2020, passed 10-8-2020)
§ 111.035 TIMING OF PAYMENT OF FRANCHISE FEES.
   Unless otherwise agreed to in writing, all franchise fees shall be due and
payable on a quarterly basis, and payment shall be made on or before the date
which is 30 calendar days after the last day of the calendar quarter for which
the payment applies (the “due date”); provided, however, that in the event that
a franchisee ceases to provide communications service for any reason (including
as a result of the sale or transfer of the franchisee’s system), the franchisee
shall make a final payment of any amounts owed to the city on or before the
date that is 30 calendar days after the date on which its operations in the
city cease (which shall be deemed a due date for purposes of this chapter).
(Ord. 4, Series 2020, passed 10-8-2020)
§ 111.036 INTEREST ON LATE PAYMENTS AND UNDERPAYMENTS.
   If any franchise fee, or any portion thereof, is not received by the city on
or before the due date, interest thereon shall accrue from the due date until
received, at the rate of 1.5% per month, unless another maximum rate is
established by applicable law.
(Ord. 4, Series 2020, passed 10-8-2020)
§ 111.037 FEE STATEMENT.
   In the event that the city imposes a franchisee fee, any franchise fee
payment shall be accompanied by a statement (a “fee statement”), showing the
manner in which the franchise fee was calculated. Within 90 calendar days
following the end of any calendar year in which the city imposes a franchise
fee, each franchisee shall submit a statement, certified as true, setting forth
the amount of linear feet of rights-of-way occupied by its facilities,
provided, however, that in the event that a franchisee ceases to provide
communications service for any reason (including as a result of a transfer), it
shall provide such a statement within 30 calendar days after the date on which
its operations in the city cease. In calculating the amount of linear feet of
rights-of-way occupied by its facilities, a franchise shall include all
facilities, including antenna and other wireless facilities, and all
facilities, whether installed underneath the rights-of-way or on poles.
(Ord. 4, Series 2020, passed 10-8-2020)
§ 111.038 NO ACCORD AND SATISFACTION.
   No acceptance by the city of any franchise fee or any other payment shall be
construed as an accord that the amount paid is in fact the correct amount; nor
shall acceptance of any franchise fee or any other payment be construed as a
release of any claim of the city.
(Ord. 4, Series 2020, passed 10-8-2020)
§ 111.039 DESCRIPTION OF COMMUNICATIONS SERVICE.
   During the term of a franchise, a franchisee shall provide the city with a
description of any material changes to the types of communications service
offered over its facilities in the rights-of-way within the city during the
prior year. Any individual communications service or item for which the
franchisee has a separate charge shall be considered a separate communications
service.
(Ord. 4, Series 2020, passed 10-8-2020)
§ 111.040 FRANCHISE FEE NOT A TAX; PAYMENT OF TAXES.
   The franchise fee is compensation for use of the rights-of-way and shall in
no way be deemed a tax of any kind. The franchise fees required herein shall be
in addition to, not in lieu of, any and all taxes, charges, assessments,
licenses, fees, and impositions otherwise applicable to the franchisee that are
or may be imposed by the city. A franchisee shall be fully responsible for the
payment of all applicable taxes.
(Ord. 4, Series 2020, passed 10-8-2020)
§ 111.041 ASSIGNMENT OF FRANCHISE.
   (A)   A franchisee shall provide the city with written notice of any
transfer or assignment of the franchise. A franchisee shall not sell, assign,
sublet, dispose of or otherwise transfer a franchise (or any of the rights or
privileges granted by the franchise), the franchisee's system, or control of
the franchisee, to another entity other than by operation of law or to an
entity controlling, controlled by, or under common control with the franchisee,
without the prior written consent of the city.
   (B)   No such consent shall be required, however, for a transfer in trust,
by mortgage, by other hypothecation, or by assignment of any rights, title, or
interest of the franchisee in the franchise or system to secure indebtedness.
The city’s consent to such a transfer shall not be withheld if the acquiring
entity would have qualified for an original franchise had it applied, and if
the acquiring entity demonstrates it has the same or equivalent insurance
coverage and bonds in place as is required of the original franchisee.
   (C)   Nothing in any approval by the city of any transfer pursuant to this
section shall be construed to waive, release or delegate any rights or powers
of the city to hold the original franchisee liable for any violation of its
franchise.
(Ord. 4, Series 2020, passed 10-8-2020)
§ 111.042 FORFEITURE OF FRANCHISE AND PRIVILEGE.
   In case of failure on the part of a franchisee, its successors and assigns,
to comply with any of the material provisions of this chapter or its franchise,
or if the franchisee, its successors and assigns, should do or cause to be done
any material act or thing prohibited by or in violation of this chapter or the
terms of its franchise, the franchisee, its successors and assigns, shall
forfeit all rights and privileges permitted by this chapter and its franchise,
and all rights hereunder shall cease, terminate, and become null and void;
provided, that the forfeiture shall not take effect until the city shall carry
out the proceedings in division specified in §
111.111(B).
(Ord. 4, Series 2020, passed 10-8-2020)
§ 111.043 SECURITY FOR PAYMENT OF FEES.
   (A)   In the event that the city imposes a franchise fee, every franchisee
shall provide to the city an irrevocable letter of credit in the amount of
$25,000, or one half of the annual franchise fee owed, whichever is less, to
secure the payment of the franchise fee for the first two years in which the
franchisee is subject to a franchise fee. If, thereafter, there has been no
default in paying the franchise fee, nor any late payment of the franchise fee,
the letter of credit shall be released.
   (B)   This section is inoperative during any period of time during which the
city elects to participate in the state baseline and local growth funds under
KRS 136.600 et seq., and to have franchisees taxed accordingly.
(Ord. 4, Series 2020, passed 10-8-2020)
§ 111.044 SPECIAL RULES FOR GOVERNMENTAL ENTITIES.
   Nothing herein requires the city to apply the provisions of this chapter to
a governmental entity if the city determines that it is not in the public
interest to do so. Nothing in this chapter shall be read to require a
governmental entity to comply with this chapter, where the city cannot enforce
this chapter against that entity as a matter of law. The city is authorized to
enter into agreements with other governmental agencies to facilitate the city’s
use and management of the rights-of-way, and these agreements shall be
enforceable according to their respective terms, notwithstanding any provision
of this chapter.
(Ord. 4, Series 2020, passed 10-8-2020)
§ 111.045 FRANCHISEES PROVIDING COMMUNICATIONS SERVICE TO CUSTOMERS.
   All franchisees providing communications service to customers shall to the
greatest extent applicable:
   (A)   At all times comply, at a minimum, with the FCC requirements for the
Emergency Alert System specially applicable to their communications services;
   (B)   Provide to every customer access to public, educational and government
access channels that are available on the Louisville/Jefferson County Metro
Government’s website, not to exceed three, at no cost to the city. Additional
channels may be negotiated, with both parties' consent, in the Franchise
agreement;
   (C)   Have a publicly-listed telephone number;
   (D)   Employ an operator or maintain a telephone answering device 24 hours
per day, each day of the year, to receive customer complaints;
   (E)   Upon a customer’s termination of the communications services, permit
customers to return any equipment that the franchisee requires to be returned
upon such termination, at the franchisee's expense, and advise customers of
this option when customers inquire about returning equipment. These expenses do
not include the cost for use of the equipment before termination of the
communications services.
   (F)   Shall indemnify the city, pursuant to §
111.006, against any alleged infringement of patent or copyright, or any other
legal infringement in the transmission of materials through the system, except
to the extent any infringement arises from or is caused by the city’s or
another person’s use of the system, including for any public, educational, and
government access channels. Nothing herein is intended as a limitation on the
extent of any legal liability of the franchisee.
(Ord. 4, Series 2020, passed 10-8-2020)
RIGHTS-OF-WAY MANAGEMENT AND FACILITIES REQUIREMENTS
§ 111.060 ENCROACHMENT PERMIT.
   A franchisee shall be subject to and comply with the additional or
supplementary terms and conditions of any encroachment on a rights-of-way
permit, as may be amended from time to time, subject to §
111.004.
(Ord. 4, Series 2020, passed 10-8-2020)
§ 111.061 ADDITIONAL FACILITIES REQUIREMENTS; PLANNED INFRASTRUCTURE.
   When it installs any new underground facilities, the franchisee shall,
unless waived by the city, simultaneously install conduits provided by the city
(“city conduit”). The city shall reimburse the franchisee for any marginal or
additional costs incurred by the franchisee in connection with installation
of the city conduit. City conduit shall be installed in accordance with city
specifications and consistent with sound engineering practice. No franchise fee
shall apply to any city conduit.
(Ord. 4, Series 2020, passed 10-8-2020)
§ 111.062 REMOVAL OF FACILITIES.
   (A)   In the event that the use of any part of the system is discontinued
for any reason by any franchisee for a continuous period of 12 months, or in
the event the system or facility has been installed in rights-of-way without
complying with requirements of this chapter, or the rights granted hereunder
have been terminated, cancelled or have expired, the franchisee shall promptly
remove from the rights-of-way all facilities of the system, other than those
the city may permit to be abandoned in place. In the event of a removal, the
franchisee shall promptly restore the rights-of-way from which the facilities
have been removed to a condition satisfactory to the city. Any facilities of a
franchisee to be abandoned in place, shall be abandoned in such manner as the
city may prescribe. Upon its permanent abandonment of facilities in place, the
franchisee shall submit to the city an instrument, to be approved by the city,
transferring ownership of the facilities to the city.
   (B)   Upon expiration of a franchise, whether by lapse of time, by agreement
between the franchisee and the city, or by forfeiture thereof, the franchisee
shall remove, at its sole cost, from the rights-of-way any and all of its
facilities that are the subject of the franchise within a reasonable time after
its expiration, not to exceed 90 days. Immediately upon such removal, it shall
be the duty of the franchisee to restore the rights-of-way from which the
facilities are removed to as good a condition as the same were before the
removal was effected and as required by the city.
   (C)   Notwithstanding the foregoing, the city may allow facilities to be
left in place when the city determines, in its sole discretion, that it is not
practical or desirable to require their removal.
(Ord. 4, Series 2020, passed 10-8-2020)
§ 111.063 RELOCATION OF FACILITIES.
   (A)   Upon the request of the city. Whenever the city shall, in its exercise
of the public interest, request that a franchisee relocate or reinstall any of
its facilities, the franchisee shall, within ten days, remove, relocate, or
reinstall any such facilities as may be reasonably necessary to meet the
request. The cost of the relocation, removal, or reinstallation of the
facilities shall be the exclusive obligation of the franchisee.
   (B)   Upon the request of any other person. Upon request of any other person
requesting relocation of facilities and holding a validly-issued building or
moving permit of the city, a franchisee shall, within ten days, temporarily
raise, lower, or relocate its wires or other facilities as may be required for
the person to exercise the rights under the permit; provided, however, that the
franchisee may require the permit holder to make payment to the franchisee in
advance for any expenses incurred by the franchisee in temporarily moving its
facilities pursuant that person’s request.
   (C)   Existing facilities.
      (1)   (a)   Notwithstanding any provision of this chapter to the
contrary, the provisions of this division shall not apply to:
            1.   Facilities located in or above the “Communication Worker
Safety Zone,” as that term is defined in the National Electrical Safety Code;
or
            2.   Any electric supply facilities, wherever located.
         (b)   Make-ready costs that are to be paid by a new attacher include,
without limitation, all costs and expenses to relocate, rearrange, transfer, or
alter the attachments or facilities of any preexisting attacher as may be
necessary to accommodate the new attacher’s attachment.
      (2)   Upon the pole owner’s approval of an attachment application, the
new attacher shall notify an affected preexisting attacher of the need to
relocate, rearrange, transfer, or alter its attachments or facilities as may be
necessary to accommodate a new attacher’s attachment, specifying the work to be
performed. Upon request from the new attacher, a pole owner shall provide the
new attacher with any existing information the pole owner has with respect to
all existing attachers’ contact information.
      (3)   For purposes of this section, a relocation, rearrangement,
transfer, or alteration that would cause, or would reasonably be expected to
cause, a service outage to a preexisting attacher (taking into account the
amount of available slack or tension on its lines, and the impact on its
facilities during any relocation, including specifically the need for adherence
to safety principles outlined under applicable standards) includes any work
that requires the cutting, splicing, or other disconnection of a preexisting
attacher’s facilities; work on facilities that cross an interstate highway
(i.e., a roadway that comprises the Dwight D. Eisenhower National System of
Interstate and Defense Highways, and other interstate highways as designated by
the U.S. Secretary of Transportation) or a non-interstate roadway with access
points limited to on-ramp and off-ramp locations and directional travel lanes,
usually separated by a physical barrier; work on facilities that cross a
railroad; work on facilities located on a bridge; or work involving vertical
risers, power supplies, double-framed poles, or locations that would not allow
access to preexisting attacher’s facilities for maintenance or installation
after the work is complete.
      (4)   For purposes of this section, a preexisting attacher shall maintain
a list of approved contractors, and shall make the list available to new
attachers within five days of a new attacher’s written request for such a list.
A preexisting attacher shall not unreasonably restrict the number of
contractors it approves, or unreasonably refuse to approve a contractor that a
new attacher requests to be approved. A new attacher seeking approval of a
contractor shall identify the contractor and request it be approved at the time
it provides the notice required by division (C)(2). The preexisting attacher
shall approve or deny approval of the new attacher’s proposed contractor within
20 days of such notice. If the preexisting attacher denies approval of the
proposed contractor, it shall identify its reasons for doing so in writing. The
fact that the preexisting attacher does not have a contract with the new
attacher’s proposed contractor shall not, without more, be a reasonable basis
for refusing to approve a new attacher’s proposed contractor.
      (5)   (a)   Upon notice from a new attacher described in division (C)(2),
all preexisting attachers shall have 30 days, running concurrently, from the
receipt of such notice either to:
            1.   Relocate, rearrange, transfer, or alter its facilities;
            2.   Authorize the new attacher to relocate, rearrange, transfer,
or alter its facilities, using contractors approved by the preexisting
attacher; or
            3.   Provide a written response, stating that the work will cause a
service outage and why, or stating any other reason why its facilities cannot
be reasonably relocated, rearranged, transferred, or altered.
         (b)   In the event any affected preexisting attacher does not perform
such work or provide a written response within 30 days, the new attacher may
perform the work, using contractors approved by the preexisting attacher.
      (6)   If preexisting attacher provides a written response, stating that
the work will cause a service outage or stating any other reason why its
facilities cannot be reasonably relocated, rearranged, transferred, or altered
pursuant to division (C)(3), the preexisting attacher shall have 60 days,
running concurrently, from receipt of the notice required by division (C)(2),
either to relocate, rearrange, transfer, or alter its facilities, or to
otherwise coordinate with the new attacher to effectuate the relocation,
rearrangement, transfer, or alteration of its facilities. In the event any
affected preexisting attacher does not perform such work or coordinate with new
attacher within 60 days for such work to be completed, the new attacher may
perform the work, using contractors approved by the preexisting attacher;
provided, however, that with respect to make-ready work on the preexisting
attacher's facilities that would cause, or would reasonably be expected to
cause, a service outage, the new attacher shall provide a minimum of ten days’
prior notice, identifying with specificity where and when it will perform such
work.
      (7)   For large projects, where the new attacher will attach to poles
involving a preexisting attacher, where the average rate of new attachment
installations will be 100 poles or more per week, the new attacher must notify
all preexisting attachers affected by the project at the same time the new
attacher submits to a pole owner its first attachment application related to
the project, and must reach mutual agreement with each preexisting attacher on
a timeline for relocating, rearranging, transferring,
or altering the preexisting attacher’s facilities. In the event the parties are
unable to reach mutual agreement prior to the notice required by division (C)
(2), the procedures described in division (C)(6) shall apply to such work,
except that the preexisting attacher shall have 105 days, running concurrently,
from receipt of the notice required by division (C)(2), either to relocate,
rearrange, transfer, or alter its facilities.
      (8)   Within 30 days of its completion of any relocation, rearrangement,
transfer, or alteration, the new attacher will send notice of the move and as-
built reports to the preexisting attacher, the pole owner, and the owner(s) of
any other structures on which such work was performed. The as-built reports
will include a unique field label identifier, and an address or coordinates.
Upon receipt of the as-built reports, the preexisting attacher and pole owner
or other structure owner(s) may conduct an inspection within 30 days. The new
attacher will pay the actual, reasonable, and documented expenses incurred by
the preexisting attacher and pole owner or structure owner(s) for the
inspection. If any such relocation, rearrangement, transfer, or alteration
results in the facilities of the preexisting attacher on the pole or other
structure failing to conform with applicable standards, the preexisting
attacher will notify new attacher within seven days of the inspection. In the
notice, the preexisting attacher will elect to either: (a) perform the
correction itself and bill the new attacher for the actual, reasonable, and
documented costs of the correction; or (b) instruct the new attacher to correct
such conditions at new attacher’s expense, using contractors approved by the
affected preexisting attacher. Any post-inspection corrections performed by the
new attacher must be completed within seven days of such notification.
      (9)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to limit or preempt
liability under applicable law for damages suffered by any party as a result of
work performed pursuant to this section that does not conform with applicable
standards.
      (10)   As a condition of exercising the ability to relocate, rearrange,
transfer, or alter a preexisting attacher’s facilities pursuant to division
(C), the new attacher shall indemnify, defend, and hold harmless the affected
preexisting attacher and pole owner or other structure owner(s) on which the
relocation, rearrangement, transfer, or alteration takes place, the affiliates
of such preexisting attacher and pole owner or other owners, and the officers,
directors, and employees of such preexisting attacher and pole owner or other
owners and their affiliates (each an “indemnitee”) from and against all third-
party damage, loss, claim, demand, suit, liability, penalty, or forfeiture of
every kind and nature, including, but not limited to, costs and expenses of
defending against the same, payment of any settlement or judgment therefor and
reasonable attorney’s fees that are actually and reasonably incurred by an
indemnitee by reason of any claim arising from the relocation, rearrangement,
transfer, or alteration.
      (11)   In the event the new attacher fails to pay the preexisting
attacher’s make-ready costs, fails to correct non-compliant work according to
the time frames specified in division (C)(8), fails to compensate the
preexisting attacher for damage caused by the new attacher’s work, or otherwise
fails to meet its obligations to the preexisting attacher in this section, the
preexisting attacher shall have the right to refuse the new attacher’s requests
to relocate, rearrange, transfer, or alter the preexisting attacher’s
facilities until such time as the new attacher complies with its obligations
under this section.
      (12)   A preexisting attacher and a new attacher may mutually agree to
modify any of the rights and obligations specified herein, and shall work in
good faith to modify any time periods specified herein to account for
unforeseen circumstances, including, but not limited to, weather events and
high volumes of make-ready work.
(Ord. 4, Series 2020, passed 10-8-2020)
§ 111.064 FRANCHISE RESPONSIBLE FOR COSTS.
   A franchisee shall be responsible for all reasonable costs incurred by the
city that are directly associated with the franchisee’s erecting, installing,
maintaining, operating, repairing, replacing, removing, or restoring its
facilities in the rights-of-way. A franchisee shall be responsible for its own
costs incurred in removing or relocating its facilities, when required by the
city due to city requirements relating to the maintenance and use of the
rights-of-way for city purposes.
(Ord. 4, Series 2020, passed 10-8-2020)
§ 111.065 INSURANCE AND BONDS.
   During the term of any franchise, a franchisee shall obtain and maintain, at
its sole expense, all insurance and bonds required by this chapter. It is
expressly understood that the city does not in any way represent that the
specified limits of liability or coverage or policy forms are sufficient or
adequate to protect the interest or liabilities of the franchisee.
   (A)   The franchisee shall file with the city a franchise bond in the amount
of $100,000, which shall be required to be in place for the entire term of the
franchise, and which may name other members of the Jefferson County League of
Cities Cable Commission as additional obligees. A franchisee seeking to
construct or install a system in the city shall file with the city a
performance bond in an amount to be determined by the city. In no event shall
the amount of the performance bond required by the city exceed the reasonable
costs of repairing the rights-of-way in the event of non-performance by the
franchisee, The performance bond shall provide for the faithful performance of
construction and installation of the franchisee’s system. Two years after
demonstration of the completion of the construction of the system by the
franchisee to the city, the city shall release the performance bond.
   (B)   The performance bond shall indemnify the city, in its own right and as
trustee, from any damages or losses arising out of the failure of the
franchisee to faithfully perform and satisfactorily complete construction of
the system in accordance with this chapter.
   (C)   The failure of the franchisee to comply with its obligations under
this chapter or the franchise, as determined by the city, shall entitle the
city to draw against either or both of the franchisee's performance bonds,
subject to §
111.111(B).
   (D)   The rights reserved to the city with respect to the performance and
franchise bonds required hereunder are in addition to all other rights of the
city, whether reserved by this chapter or authorized by law. No action,
proceeding or exercise of a right with respect to such performance or franchise
bonds shall affect any other rights the city may have.
   (E)   Unless otherwise released by the city, the performance or franchise
bonds required hereunder shall not expire or be materially altered, without 30
days’ written notice, and without securing and delivering to the city a
substitute, renewal and replacement bond in conformance with this chapter. In
the event the city does draw monies against the performance bond required
hereunder, within ten days thereafter, the franchisee shall pay those funds to
the bonding company as necessary to bring the performance and/or franchise
bonds back to the applicable principal, where it shall continue to be
maintained. The performance and franchise bonds required hereunder shall
contain the following endorsements:
   “It is hereby understood and agreed that this bond may not be reduced,
altered or canceled by the franchisee or surety without 30 days’ written
notice, by certified mail, to the City of Bancroft. Such termination or
cancellation shall have no effect on any liability incurred or accrued under
this bond prior to the effective date of such termination or cancellation."
   (F)   Immediately upon the effective date of the resolution granting a
franchise under this chapter, the franchisee shall file with the city the
following proof of liability insurance issued by a company(ies) authorized to
do business in the commonwealth with an AM Best Rating of A- or better:
      (1)   General liability insurance, via an occurrence form, covering
bodily injury, including death, personal injury and property damage, and
including completed operations, contractual liability, independent contractors’
protective liability and personal injury liability protection. The minimum
acceptable limit of liability amount is $1,000,000 per occurrence and aggregate
under a combined single limit. This policy must include the city, including its
Mayor and City Commission/City Council members, as additional insureds as
respects all operations of the insured franchisee. The city reserves the right
to make reasonable increases in the required amount of insurance coverage
herein at any time, subject to §
111.108(A)(2) of this chapter. Nothing herein is intended as a limitation on
the extent of any legal liability of the franchisee.
      (2)   Automobile liability, insuring all owned, non-owned and hired motor
vehicles. The minimum coverage liability limit is $1,000,000 combined single
limit for any one accident. The limit of liability may be subject to increase
according to any applicable state or federal transportation regulations.
      (3)   Workers’ compensation (if applicable), insuring the employer’s
obligations under KRS Chapter 342 at statutory limits.
   (G)   The franchisee shall maintain on file with the city a certificate of
insurance certifying the coverage required under this chapter, which
certificate shall be subject to the approval of the city as to the adequacy of
the certificate, and of the insurance certified under the requirements of this
chapter. The certificate shall be identified on its face by the name of
franchisee, and shall be submitted to the city, in accordance with the terms
and conditions of this chapter. Failure to maintain adequate insurance as
required under this chapter shall be deemed a breach of the franchise.
   (H)   The city reserves the right to make increases in the amount of
insurance coverage referred to in this section at any time, subject to §
111.108(A)(2) of this chapter.
   (I)   The following clause shall be added to the franchisee’s commercial
general liability policies:
   “The City of Bancroft, its elected and appointed officials, employees,
agents and successors are added as an ‘additional insured’ as respects
operations of the named insured performed relative to the contract.”
(Ord. 4, Series 2020, passed 10-8-2020)
§ 111.066 PERMITS.
   (A)   Prior to performing any construction or installation work in the
public rights-of-way, the franchisee shall apply to the city for a permit, and
shall include descriptive information about the specific location of any lines,
facilities, boxes, or related equipment.
   (B)   All terms and conditions of the permit application shall apply and be
adhered to.
      (1)   The franchisee shall furnish detailed plans of the work to be done
within the public rights-of-way, and provide other such information as required
by the city.
      (2)   The franchisee shall coordinate any construction work within the
public rights-of-way with the city, and shall begin construction work only
after approval of the city.
      (3)   All permits issued by the city shall be conspicuously displayed at
all times at the indicated work site, and shall be available for inspection by
city personnel.
(Ord. 4, Series 2020, passed 10-8-2020)
§ 111.067 NOTIFICATION.
   The franchisee shall notify the Mayor, in writing, at least 15 days prior to
construction. Such written notification shall contain the location of the
construction, the starting date, and the estimated completion date.
(Ord. 4, Series 2020, passed 10-8-2020)
§ 111.068 STANDARDS.
   Any work required or performed pursuant to this chapter shall be done in
accordance with federal, state, local law, and the National Electric Safety
Code.
   (A)   In the event that the franchisee leases space on the poles or in the
conduits of an electric or other utility, the franchisee shall abide by the
construction and other requirements of the utility, and the granting of a
franchise by the city shall not be construed or interpreted in any way to
alleviate the franchisee’s responsibilities and obligations to the pole or
conduit owner.
   (B)   The franchisee, its contractors, subcontractors, and anyone directly
or indirectly employed by the franchisee, shall conduct such operations so as
to promote and preserve the public safety and general welfare of the citizens
of the city.
   (C)   All construction, installation, or maintenance by the franchisee shall
be completed with diligence and with respect to all interests and rights of the
public.
(Ord. 4, Series 2020, passed 10-8-2020)
§ 111.069 TRAFFIC.
   The franchisee’s work in the rights-of-way shall be accomplished with a
minimum of disruption and interference to the free flow of vehicular and
pedestrian traffic on the public rights-of-way or public land.
   (A)   The franchisee shall maintain lanes of vehicular traffic in each
direction at all times during construction, installation, or maintenance
activity.
   (B)   Traffic-control devices to protect and control pedestrian and
vehicular traffic in any construction, maintenance, or installation areas may
be prescribed by the city in accordance with the Manual on Uniform Traffic
Control Devices.
(Ord. 4, Series 2020, passed 10-8-2020)
§ 111.070 DELAY.
   Improvements to city rights-of-way conducted by the city or its contractors
shall not be delayed by any franchisee work authorized by this chapter.
(Ord. 4, Series 2020, passed 10-8-2020)
§ 111.071 SPECIAL EXCEPTIONS.
   The city may grant a special exception to the requirements of this chapter
if a franchisee, upon application, demonstrates with written evidence that:
   (A)   The exception will not create any threat to the public health, safety,
or welfare;
   (B)   The increased economic burden and the potential adverse impact on the
franchisee’s construction schedule, resulting from the strict enforcement of
the requirement, would actually or effectively prohibit the ability of the
franchisee to provide communications service in the city;
   (C)   The requirement unreasonably discriminates against the franchisee in
favor of another comparable communications service provider; and
   (D)   Any special exceptions shall be granted in a nondiscriminatory manner.
(Ord. 4, Series 2020, passed 10-8-2020)
§ 111.072 INSPECTIONS.
   All construction, installation, and operation of the franchisee’s system in
the rights-of-way are subject to inspection by the city.
(Ord. 4, Series 2020, passed 10-8-2020)
§ 111.073 REPAIR OF SUNKEN PAVEMENT OVER EXCAVATION.
   (A)   In case the pavement or the surface of the rights-of-way over any
excavation should become depressed or broken at any time within five years
after the excavation has been completed and before resurfacing of the rights-
of-way, natural wear of the surface excepted, the franchisee shall, upon
written notice from the city, immediately proceed to inspect the depressed or
broken area over the excavation to ascertain the cause of the failure.
   (B)   The franchisee shall make repairs to the installation or backfill and
have the pavement restored as specified by the city, within such time period as
may be specified by the city.
   (C)   If the pavement is not restored as specified by the city within the
time period specified by the city, and unless delayed by a strike or conditions
beyond the franchisee’s control, the city may cause the work to be done after
giving the franchisee 24 hours’ final notice. The cost thereof, including, but
not limited to, any inspection costs and administrative overhead incurred by
the city, shall be assessed against the franchisee.
(Ord. 4, Series 2020, passed 10-8-2020)
§ 111.074 MATERIALS AND WORKMANSHIP.
   During any phase of construction, installation, maintenance, or repair of
the system, the franchisee shall use materials of good and durable quality. All
such work shall be performed in a safe, thorough and reliable manner, and in
compliance with Louisville Metro’s Public Works and Assets Utility Policy, as
amended.
(Ord. 4, Series 2020, passed 10-8-2020)
PRIVATE COMMUNICATIONS FACILITIES
§ 111.090 APPLICATION FOR LICENSE.
   A person wishing to erect, install, maintain, operate, repair, replace,
remove, or restore a private communications system in the rights-of-way must
obtain a license therefor from the city. The license shall only authorize
placement of the private communications system in a specific portion of the
rights-of-way for a limited period of time and for a specific purpose in
connection with the person’s business, and shall not permit the provision of
communications service to any other person. That person shall submit an
application to the city on such form as may be developed by the city,
accompanied by such application fee as may be determined by the city.
(Ord. 4, Series 2020, passed 10-8-2020)
§ 111.091 CONDITIONS OF LICENSE.
   Any license shall be subject to such conditions as the city may from time to
time establish, shall be expressly subordinate to the use of the rights-of-way
by the city and the franchisees, and shall otherwise conform to the
requirements of this chapter.
(Ord. 4, Series 2020, passed 10-8-2020)
§ 111.092 COMPENSATION.
   A private communications system owner shall pay a fee established by the
city from time to time to reflect the fair market value of the property used.
(Ord. 4, Series 2020, passed 10-8-2020)
ADMINISTRATION OF FRANCHISE
§ 111.105 CITY’S RESPONSIBILITY.
   The city shall be responsible for the continued administration of this
chapter and any franchises granted hereunder.
(Ord. 4, Series 2020, passed 10-8-2020)
§ 111.106 NON-ENFORCEMENT BY THE CITY.
   A franchisee shall not be relieved of its obligation to comply with any of
the provisions of this chapter or its applicable franchise by reason of any
failure of the city to enforce prompt compliance.
(Ord. 4, Series 2020, passed 10-8-2020)
§ 111.107 PUBLICATION OF NOTICES.
   A franchisee shall be responsible for all costs of publication that may be
required with respect to its franchise or any amendments or renewals thereto.
(Ord. 4, Series 2020, passed 10-8-2020)
§ 111.108 TRANSITIONAL PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Existing franchises.
      (1)   Franchises previously granted shall be deemed to continue through
their current expiration date, incorporating this chapter, and they shall be
automatically deemed to have complied with all application and qualification
requirements hereunder, unless, within 60 days of the passage of this chapter,
a franchisee indicates, in writing, it does not accept this chapter as part of
its franchise. Upon such notice of non-acceptance, the franchisee and the city
may renegotiate or terminate the franchise pursuant to all local, state and
federal law.
      (2)   Further amendments of this chapter and the Louisville Metro Public
Works and Assets Utility Policy, shall be deemed accepted by a franchisee
unless, within 60 days of any further amendments, a franchise indicates, in
writing, it does not accept the amendments as part of its franchise. Upon such
notice of non-acceptance, the franchisee and the city may renegotiate or
terminate the franchise pursuant to all local, state and federal law.
   (B)   Transitional provisions to be narrowly interpreted. It is the intent
of the city to apply the provisions of this chapter to all owners or operators
of communications systems with facilities, including local exchange carriers,
that now occupy or may in the future occupy rights-of-way, except to the extent
federal or state law prevents the city from doing so.
(Ord. 4, Series 2020, passed 10-8-2020)
§ 111.109 LIABILITIES AND PENALTIES.
   Except as expressly stated in this chapter, the express or implied repeal or
amendment by this chapter of any ordinance or part thereof shall not affect any
liabilities accrued, penalties incurred or proceedings begun prior to the
effective date of this chapter. Those liabilities and penalties are continued,
and penalties shall be imposed and enforced under the repealed or amended
ordinance as if this chapter had not been adopted.
(Ord. 4, Series 2020, passed 10-8-2020)
§ 111.110 REMEDIES NOT EXCLUSIVE.
   The rights and remedies of the city and the franchisee as set forth in their
franchise, or in this chapter, shall be in addition to and not in limitation
of, any other rights and remedies provided by law or in equity.
(Ord. 4, Series 2020, passed 10-8-2020)
§ 111.111 REVIEW, TERMINATION, AND CANCELLATION.
   (A)   Review. To provide for technological changes in the state of the art
of communications services, to facilitate renewal procedures, and to achieve
continuing, advanced, modern systems for the city, the franchisee shall comply
with the following review provisions:
      (1)   The city may hold review sessions which shall be open to the
public, and notice shall be given by advertisement in a newspaper of general
circulation at least one week before each session;
      (2)   Either the city or the franchisee may select additional topics for
discussion at any regular or special review session;
      (3)   Any topic proposed for discussion at any regular or special review
session by a resident of the city, and supported by a petition bearing the
signature of 30 city residents, shall be included in the list of topics for
discussion.
   (B)   Termination.
      (1)   The city may terminate any franchise in accordance herewith in the
event of the violation of any material provision hereof, or of any rule or
regulation promulgated pursuant hereto, or of any
applicable federal, state, or local law, or the breach or other failure,
refusal or neglect by the franchisee to perform its obligations under the
material terms and conditions of this chapter, or of any ordinance or agreement
awarding a franchise in accordance herewith, except when the violation, breach,
failure, refusal or neglect is caused by any of the following:
         (a)   An act of God;
         (b)   A riot, insurrection, civil disturbance, sabotage or vandalism,
tampering or interference, act of public enemy, accident, fire, flood, strike,
unavailability of materials or equipment, war or act or war, all of which are
beyond the control of the franchisee; or
         (c)   An emergency declared by the President of the United States of
America, the Governor of the Commonwealth of Kentucky, or the Mayor.
      (2)   In the event that the city determines that the franchisee has
violated any material provision of this chapter, any rule or regulation
promulgated pursuant hereto, any applicable federal, state or local law, or any
material term of an agreement or ordinance awarding a franchise, the city shall
make a written demand on the franchisee that it comply with the law, agreement
or ordinance. The written demand shall set forth the exact nature of the
noncompliance. The franchisee shall have 60 days from such notice to either
cure the alleged noncompliance or object in writing, and to state its reasons
for such objections and provide any explanation. If the city has not received a
satisfactory response from the franchisee, or the violation, breach, failure,
refusal or neglect is not remedied to the satisfaction of the city, within 60
days following such demand, the city shall determine whether or not, in its
sole discretion, any violation, breach, failure, refusal, or neglect by the
franchisee was excusable or inexcusable as provided in division (B)(1).
         (a)   If the city determines the violation, breach, failure, refusal
or neglect by the franchisee was excusable as provided in division (B)(1), it
shall direct the franchisee to correct or remedy the same
within such additional time, in such manner, and upon such terms and conditions
as are just and reasonable, and as the city may direct.
         (b)   If the city determines the violation, breach, failure, refusal,
or neglect by the franchisee was inexcusable, then the City Commission/City
Council, by ordinance, may seek to revoke the franchisee’s franchise at a
public hearing, and/or City Commission/City Council may provide a time period
for the franchisee to become compliant. If the city seeks to revoke the
franchisee’s franchise, it shall provide the franchisee with at least 20 days’
written notice prior to conducting a hearing. The hearing shall be on the
record and transcribed, if the franchisee so elects and at the franchisee's
cost. The hearing shall provide the franchisee full due process rights,
including the right to state its position on the matter, present evidence, and
question witnesses. The franchisee may appeal any decision made by the city
after the hearing to an appropriate court. Nothing in this chapter, including
the provisions set forth in this section, shall prevent the franchisee from
filing at any time a legal action in any permissible court or tribunal, seeking
a declaration or enforcement of the franchisee’s rights or obligations under
the franchise, this chapter, or applicable law. The franchisee may continue to
operate the system until all avenues and procedures of judicial review have
been fully and finally exhausted.
      (3)   If the city declares the agreement breached pursuant to division
(B)(2)(b), and the franchisee either does not challenge the city’s decision, or
city’s decision is affirmed in a final, non-appealable court order, the city
may pursue any remedies available to it pursuant to this chapter , the
franchise or ordinance, or any other remedy, legal or equitable, available to
the city.
   (C)   If any franchise is cancelled by reason of the default of the
franchisee, the city may exercise its option to purchase any portion of the
system then connected in any manner with the rights-of-ways, public places, or
other property of the city, at a cost not to exceed its then book value, less
any amount for any damages incurred by the city in connection with the
cancellation. Damages incurred by the city shall include, but shall not be
limited to, any payment made by the city authorizing or directing the continued
operation of the system.
   (D)   In the event that the franchise is terminated, the franchisee shall
follow the procedure in §
111.062(A).
(Ord. 4, Series 2020, passed 10-8-2020)
§ 111.112 FORECLOSURE; RECEIVERSHIP.
   (A)   Upon the foreclosure or other judicial sale of all or a substantial
part of the system, or upon the termination of any lease covering all or a
substantial part of the system, the franchisee shall notify the city of the
foreclosure. The franchisee’s notification shall be treated as a notification
that a change in control of the franchisee has taken place, and the provisions
of this chapter governing the consent of the city to this change in control of
the franchisee shall apply.
   (B)   The city shall have the right to cancel the franchise 120 days after
the appointment of a receiver, or trustee, to take over and conduct the
business of the franchisee, whether in receivership, reorganization,
bankruptcy, or other action or proceeding, unless the receivership or
trusteeship shall have been vacated prior to the expiration of those 120 days,
or unless:
      (1)   Within 120 days after his or her election of appointment, the
receiver or trustee shall have fully complied with all of the provisions of
this chapter, and the agreement and ordinance awarding a franchise hereunder,
and remedied all defaults thereunder; and
      (2)   Within those 120 days, the receiver or trustee shall have executed
an agreement, duly approved by the court having jurisdiction over same, whereby
he or she assumes and agrees to be bound by each and every provision of this
chapter, and the agreement and ordinance awarding a franchise hereunder.
(Ord. 4, Series 2020, passed 10-8-2020)
§ 111.113 REPORTS.
   Upon the city’s request, the franchisee shall submit a written report to the
city, including, but not limited to, the following information:
   (A)   A summary of the previous year’s or, in the case of the initial
reporting year, the initial year’s activities in development of the system,
including, but not limited to, communications service begun or discontinued;
   (B)   If the city exercises its constitutional right to collect franchise
fees, a statement of revenues;
   (C)   A list of officers and members of the board of directors of the
franchisee, and its parent, subsidiary, or affiliate corporations, if any;
   (D)   It shall be unlawful for the franchisee to refuse, fail or neglect to
file the reports required under this chapter. The refusal, failure, or neglect
of the franchisee to file any of the reports required under this chapter, or as
the city may direct, shall be deemed a violation of this chapter and shall
subject the franchisee to the provisions of §
111.111, shall be deemed a material breach of any agreement or ordinance
awarding a franchise in accordance herewith, and shall subject the franchisee
to all penalties and remedies prescribed therein, and to all other remedies,
legal or equitable, available to the city.
   (E)   Any material misrepresentation made knowingly by the franchisee in any
report required under this chapter shall subject the franchisee to the
provisions of §
111.111, and shall subject the franchisee to all penalties and remedies
prescribed therein. and to all other remedies, legal or equitable, available to
the city.
(Ord. 4, Series 2020, passed 10-8-2020)
§ 111.114 BOOKS AND RECORDS OF THE FRANCHISE.
   (A)   The franchisee shall keep complete and accurate books of account and
records of its business and operations in connection with any franchise granted
under this chapter.
   (B)   Upon request, the city shall have access to all books of account and
records of the franchisee for the purpose of auditing franchise fee payments
and of ascertaining the correctness of any and all reports, and may examine its
officers and employees in respect thereto.
   (C)   Any false entry in the books of account or record submitted to the
city, or false statements in reports to the city, as to material fact,
knowingly made by the franchisee, shall constitute a breach of a material
provision of this chapter, and any franchise agreement or ordinance hereunder,
for which the remedies provided in this chapter may be invoked.
(Ord. 4, Series 2020, passed 10-8-2020)
§ 111.115 TIME OF THE ESSENCE.
   Whenever this chapter, or any ordinance or agreement awarding a franchise
hereunder, shall set forth any time for any act to be performed by or on behalf
of a franchisee, such time shall be deemed to be of the essence, and any
failure of a franchisee to perform within the time set forth shall constitute a
material breach of the terms of this chapter, and shall entitle the city to
invoke all penalties and remedies prescribed in this chapter, as well as all
other legal or equitable remedies available to the city.
(Ord. 4, Series 2020, passed 10-8-2020)
§ 111.116 EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY.
   (A)   Franchisees shall comply in all respects with the FCC’s regulations
governing equal opportunity. Franchisees shall also comply with all other
applicable, equal opportunity government regulations, whether federal, state or
local.
   (B)   Franchisees shall afford equal opportunity in employment to all
qualified persons, and no person shall be discriminated against because of
race, color, religion, national origin, handicap, sex, or age.
(Ord. 4, Series 2020, passed 10-8-2020)
§ 111.117 VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to establish, operate or to carry
on the business of distributing to any persons in the city, any communications
service by means of a system in the rights-of-way, unless a franchise therefor
has first been obtained from the city, and unless that franchise is in full
force and effect.
   (B)   Il shall be unlawful for any person to own, erect, install, maintain,
operate, repair, replace, remove or restore within any public street in the
city, equipment or facilities for distributing any communications service
through a system, unless a franchise authorizing such use of such rights-of-way
has first been obtained from the city, and unless the franchise is in full
force and effect.
Ord. 4, Series 2020, passed 10-8-2020)
CHAPTER 112: INSURANCE COMPANIES
Section
   
112.01   Annual license fee imposed
   
112.02   Business of selling life insurance
   
112.03   Business of selling all other types of insurance
   
112.04   When payment due
   
112.05   Written breakdown of all collections in preceding year
   
112.06   KRS 91A.080 adopted by reference
   
112.07   Effective date
§ 112.01 ANNUAL LICENSE FEE IMPOSED.
   There is hereby imposed on each insurance company a license fee for the
privilege of engaging in the business of insurance within the corporate limits
of the city for the calendar year 2001 and thereafter on a calendar-year basis.
(Ord. 1, Series 2001, passed 1-11-2001)
§ 112.02 BUSINESS OF SELLING LIFE INSURANCE.
   The license fee imposed upon each insurance company which issues life
insurance policies on the lives of persons residing within the corporate limits
of the city shall be 5% of the first year’s premiums actually collected within
each calendar quarter by reason of the issuance of such policies. In the event
that Metro Louisville shall impose a higher percentage than 5%, either as a fee
for tax, then the rate imposed herein shall be automatically increased to equal
but not exceed the rate imposed by Metro Louisville.
(Ord. 1, Series 2001, passed 1-11-2001; Ord. 1, Series 2019, passed 3-14-2019)
§ 112.03 BUSINESS OF SELLING ALL OTHER TYPES OF INSURANCE.
   (A)   The license fee imposed upon each insurance company which issues any
insurance policy which is not a life insurance policy shall be 5% of the
premiums actually collected within each calendar quarter by reason of the
issuance of such policies on risks located within the corporate limits of the
city on whose classes of business which such company is authorized to transact,
less all premiums returned to policy holders. In the event that Metro
Louisville shall impose a higher percentage than 5%, either as a fee or tax,
then the rate imposed herein shall be automatically increased to equal but not
exceed the rate imposed by Metro Louisville.
   (B)   Any license fee or tax imposed upon premium receipts shall not include
premiums received for insuring employers against liability for personal
injuries to their employers, or death caused thereby, under the provisions of
KRS Chapter 324, the Worker’s Compensation Act and shall not include premiums
received on policies of group health insurance provided for state employees
under KRS Chapter 18.
(Ord. 1, Series 2001, passed 1-11-2001; Ord. 8, Series 2015, passed 2-12-2015;
Ord. 1, Series 2019, passed 3-14-2019)
§ 112.04 WHEN PAYMENT DUE.
   All license fees imposed by this section shall be due no later than 30 days
after the end of each calendar quarter. License fees which are not paid on or
before the due date shall bear interest at the tax interest rate as defined in
KRS 131.010(6).
(Ord. 1, Series 2001, passed 1-11-2001)
§ 112.05 WRITTEN BREAKDOWN OF ALL COLLECTIONS IN PRECEDING YEAR.
   Every insurance company subject to the license fees imposed by this section
shall annually, by March 31, furnish the city with a written breakdown of all
collections in the preceding calendar year for the following categories of
insurance:
   (A)   Casualty;
   (B)   Automobile;
   (C)   Inland marine;
   (D)   Fire and allied perils;
   (E)   Health;
   (F)   Life; and
   (G)   Other.
(Ord. 1, Series 2001, passed 1-11-2001)
§ 112.06 KRS 91A.080 ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The provisions of KRS 91A.080 are hereby adopted by reference and
incorporated as part of this code of ordinances as fully as if set out at
length herein; that statute provides for regulation by the Department of
Insurance and includes penalties for violation of this section.
(Ord. 1, Series 2001, passed 1-11-2001)
§ 112.07 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   The effective date of this chapter shall be July 1, 2001.
(Ord. 1, Series 2001, passed 1-11-2001)
CHAPTER 113: RENTAL PROPERTIES
Section
   
113.01   Definitions
   
113.02   Registration of rental dwellings
   
113.03   Condition of real property
   
113.04   Issuance of permit
   
113.99   Penalty
§ 113.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   LOCAL AGENT. An individual, fiduciary, partnership, association, corporation
or other entity, who represents the owner of a rental dwelling for purposes of
this chapter.
   OWNER. An individual, fiduciary, partnership, association, corporation or
other entity holding legal or equitable title in a rental dwelling who is
registered as the title owner of that property with the Property Valuation
Administration.
   RENTAL DWELLING or RENTAL PROPERTY. Any residential dwelling registered with
the Property Valuation Administration, which is occupied by one or more person
(s) pursuant to an oral or written agreement for monetary or any other
consideration, but which person(s) is not acquiring an ownership interest in
the dwelling. It does not include dwellings that are occupied only by members
of the owner's immediate family, who do not pay rent.
   TENANT. Any person, other than an owner, occupying all or part of a rental
dwelling.
(Ord. 3, Series 2019, passed 6-13-2019)
§ 113.02 REGISTRATION OF RENTAL DWELLINGS.
   (A)   Registration required. All owners of rental dwellings shall annually
register the rental property with the city by completing the online rental
property registration application accessible on the city's website.
   (B)   Annual registration. The annual registration date shall be July 1 of
each year.
   (C)   Registration of new rental dwellings. The owner of a new rental
dwelling or of any dwelling newly converted to a rental dwelling shall register
the rental dwelling prior to allowing occupancy.
   (D)   Change in registration information. If there is any change in the
information supplied by the owner in the rental property registration
application, the owner must re-register within 60 days after any change occurs
in information, but does not have to pay another registration fee.
   (E)   Registration of rental dwellings. Application for registration or re-
registration shall include:
      (1)   The address of the rental dwelling;
      (2)   The name, mailing address, personal phone number and personal email
address of the owner and the local agent, if applicable;
      (3)   The name of the tenant(s), lease period, number of permitted
occupants, names of permitted occupants (for rentals greater than thirty days),
and names and breeds of any animals allowed under the lease;
      (4)   Certification that all state, city, and local taxes levied and
assessed against the rental dwelling that are due and payable at the time of
the filing of the application have been paid. Delinquencies on such taxes may
result in the denial of an application for registration or re-registration
under this section; and
      (5)   Certification that the property is in compliance with all
applicable city ordinances as detailed and enumerated in the rental property
registration application.
   (F)   Inaccurate or incomplete registration information. It shall be a
violation of this chapter for an owner to provide inaccurate information for
the registration or re-registration of rental dwellings or to fail to provide
information required by the application.
   (G)   Designation of local agent. If the owner of a rental dwelling, or a
responsible member or officer of the owner, does not reside within 60 miles of
the city, the owner shall designate a responsible local agent, who does reside
within 60 miles of the city, and who shall be legally responsible for operating
such rental dwelling in compliance with this chapter, ths code of ordinances,
and other applicable laws or regulations. All official notices may be served on
the responsible local agent, and any notice so served shall be deemed to have
been served upon the owner of record. Designation of a local agent is required
for registration of properties for rentals greater than 30 days as well as or
rentals less than 30 days, so long as the owner does not reside within 60 miles
of the city.
   (H)   More than one owner or ownership entity. Where more than one person
has an ownership interest, the required information shall be provided for each
owner. If those cases in which the owner is not a person, the information
required for registration shall be provided for the organization owning the
rental dwelling and for the president, general manager, director(s), partner
(s), executor, trustee(s), or other chief executive officer(s) of the
organization.
(Ord. 3, Series 2019, passed 6-13-2019) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.03 CONDITION OF RENTAL PROPERTY.
   (A)   All rental property must be kept in compliance with the city's code of
ordinances, as well as Metro Louisville ordinances, as a condition of operating
a rental property in the city.
   (B)   The rental property registration application must be accurate and
complete. If there is any change in the application information, it must be
updated within 60 days.
   (C)   Each rental dwelling shall provide measures acceptable to the city to
prevent any excessive noise at any property line.
   (D)   Each rental dwelling shall provide measures acceptable to the city to
prevent violations of the city's parking ordinance by tenants of the rental
unit.
(Ord. 3, Series 2019, passed 6-13-2019) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.04 ISSUANCE OF PERMIT.
   (A)   Commissioner of Public Services shall oversee the permitting of rental
dwellings. The commissioner of Public Services shall have the duty to review
all submitted rental property registration applications and issue permits for
operating rental dwellings to those owners whose applications are accepted.
Issuance of permits shall be within the sole discretion of the Commissioner of
Public Services, based upon the information provided in the rental property
registration application. The Commissioner of Public Services is authorized to
delegate the responsibility of reviewing applications, but cannot delegate the
responsibility of issuing permits for qualified applicants.
   (B)   Within 30 days of the city's receipt of a rental property registration
application (or re- registration), along with the registration fee, the
Commissioner of Public Services shall either issue the owner a permit to
operate the rental property, or, if the Commissioner decides not to issue the
permit, the Commissioner shall provide a written list of deficiencies or
violations that must be corrected before a permit may be issued.
   (C)   If the owner contests the permit denial, the owner may appeal the
denial to a panel comprised of all of the City Commissioners. The appeal must
be filed within 20 days of the receipt of the denial by owner. The appeal will
be heard by all of the City Commissioners at the next regular meeting, at which
time the owner may present evidence relevant to whether the property is in
compliance with all City of Bancroft ordinances, as well as Metro Louisville
ordinances, and any other relevant evidence disputing any other reason for
denial enumerated by the Commissioner of Public Services in the list of
deficiencies provided with the denial.
(Ord. 3, Series 2019, passed 6-13-2019)
§ 113.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Fees. The Commissioner of Public Services has discretion in deciding
whether or not to charge a late fee, and discretion in setting the amount
thereof, to any owner who fails to timely file a rental property registration
application (or re-registration) under the terms of this chapter.
   (B)   Civil.
      (1)   Any person who shall violate any provision of this chapter shall
subject the offender to a civil fine in an amount equal to two times the
minimum fine prescribed in this chapter, with a minimum civil fine of $50 for
each violation.
      (2)   The civil fine provided herein may be recovered by the city in a
civil action in the nature of a debt if the offender does not pay the fine
within 20 days after the offender has been cited for the ordinance violation.
As used herein, "cited" shall mean notified of the violation and the fine in
writing by an elected or appointed official of the city or the official
attorney for the city. The civil fine may be used as an alternative to or in
conjunction with the criminal fine authorized herein.
(Ord. 3, Series 2019, passed 6-13-2019)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   MUNICIPAL REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 130: MUNICIPAL REGULATIONS
Section
   
130.01   Unauthorized use of or damaging property near Goose Creek; other city
property
   
130.02   Firearms control
 
   
130.99   Penalty
§ 130.01 UNAUTHORIZED USE OF OR DAMAGING PROPERTY NEAR GOOSE CREEK; OTHER CITY
PROPERTY.
   (A)   Any use of city property adjoining Goose Creek within the city that
alters it in any way is prohibited without express written consent of the City
Commission. This includes, but is not limited to, the following: cutting down
trees; pollution or alteration of the creek; littering; landscaping; gardening;
erosion; hunting; use of motorized vehicles of any type; alteration of water
drainage; or construction of any type.
   (B)   No person, firm, or corporation shall willfully or maliciously
destroy, deface, or commit vandalism upon any public property within the limits
of the city or belonging to the city.
(Prior Code, § 140.01) (Ord. 8-1977, passed 3-3-1977) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.02 FIREARMS CONTROL.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to use or discharge any weapon or
firearm except in defense of persons or property, including any weapon from
which a projectile, metal pellet is or may be propelled or discharged under
pressure, and which is commonly known as an air rifle, air pistol, or BB gun,
within the city limits.
(Prior Code, § 140.02) (Ord. 5-1977, passed 3-3-1977; Ord. 4, Series 2013,
passed 12-12-2013) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter shall be fined not more than
$500.
(Prior Code, § 140.99)
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   BUILDING REGULATIONS
      
151.   UNFIT STRUCTURES
      
152.   ABATEMENT AND DECONTAMINATION OF PROPERTIES SUBJECT TO A METHAMPHETAMINE
CONTAMINATION NOTICE; LIEN
CHAPTER 150: BUILDING REGULATIONS
Section
   
150.01   Adoption of Commonwealth Building Code and Standards of Safety;
enforcement agents
   
150.02   Application
   
150.03   Construction, use, and maintenance of property
 
   
150.99   Penalty
§ 150.01 ADOPTION OF COMMONWEALTH BUILDING CODE AND STANDARDS OF SAFETY;
ENFORCEMENT AGENTS.
   (A)   The Kentucky Building Code, as contained in Title 815, Ch. 7 of the
Kentucky Administrative Regulations; the Kentucky Plumbing Code, as contained
in Title 815, Ch. 20 of the Kentucky Administrative Regulations; the Kentucky
Standards of Safety, as contained in Title 815, Ch. 10 of the Kentucky
Administrative Regulations, together with any amendments, are hereby adopted
and incorporated as part of this code of ordinances as fully as if set out at
length herein.
   (B)   The Kentucky Residential Code, as contained in Title 815, Ch. 7 of the
Kentucky Administrative Regulations, and all subsequent amendments thereto and
regulations promulgated thereby, are hereby adopted and incorporated as part of
this code of ordinances as fully as if set out at length herein.
   (C)   The County Building Official shall be designated as the local
enforcement agency for the Kentucky Building Code and Kentucky Residential
Code.
   (D)   The county is charged with the enforcement of the provisions of the
Standards of Safety.
(Prior Code, § 150.01) (Ord. 9, Series 2015, passed 2-12-2015) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.02 APPLICATION.
   (A)   The application of the Kentucky Building Code is extended to every
building or structure that is constructed or to be constructed within the city
limits or appurtenances connected or attached to such buildings or structures.
   (B)   The application of the Kentucky Residential Code is extended to every
building or structure that is constructed or to be constructed within the city
limits or appurtenance connected or attached to such buildings or structures.
(Prior Code, § 150.02) (Ord. 10, Series 2015, passed 2-12-2015)
§ 150.03 CONSTRUCTION, USE, AND MAINTENANCE OF PROPERTY.
   (A)   Property shall be used for residential purposes only. Not more than
one single-family residence shall be erected on any lot.
   (B)   No building on any lot shall be nearer the property lines of the lot
than the building lines shown on the recorded plat of Bancroft Subdivision, and
in no event shall any structure be located nearer to the property lines of the
lot than the distance prescribed by the regulations of the Louisville and
Jefferson County Planning and Zoning Commission.
   (C)   The floor area of any residence erected on any lot, exclusive of
porches and garages and with or without basements, shall be as follows:
      (1)   Not less than 1,750 square feet for a residence of one-floor
design;
      (2)   Not less than 1,000 square feet on each floor for a residence of
two-story colonial or any full two-story design;
      (3)   Not less than 1,500 square feet on the first floor for a residence
of one and one-half or one and three-quarter-story design; or
      (4)   Not less than 1,500 square feet within the foundation perimeter.
   (D)   The exterior building material of all one-floor plan residences
erected on all lots shall be not less than 75% of either brick, stone, or a
combination of both. The use of wood shall be for trim, dormers, and decorative
effect. The City Commission shall have the power to approve additional use of
wood on one and one-half story, full two-story, or multi-level residences.
   (E)   No mobile home, trailer, camper, recreational vehicle, basement, tent,
shack, garage, or other outbuilding placed or erected in the subdivision at any
time shall be used as a residence or place of business, temporarily or
permanently.
   (F)   Garages shall be permitted and may be attached, semi-attached, or
detached. If attached or semi-attached to the residence, any garage so erected
shall be constructed of the same exterior materials as the residence. If
detached from the house, a garage may be constructed of wood, brick, or stone
but shall not be constructed of any other material, such as concrete block, or
be prefabricated. If detached from the residence, any garage shall be placed at
least the minimum number of feet from the rear wall of the main structure of
the house that is required by the provisions and regulations of the Louisville
and Jefferson County Planning and Zoning Commission.
   (G)   No noxious or offensive trade or activity shall be carried on upon any
lot nor shall anything be done thereon which may be or become an annoyance or a
nuisance to the neighborhood. No chickens, ducks, geese, or other fowl, and no
swine, cattle, goats, horses, or other animals or livestock shall be kept on
any lot.
   (H)   No fence, continuous dense hedge, wall, or retaining wall shall be
erected nearer to the front property line than five feet forward from the rear
foundation wall of the residence. Rear yard walls, solid board fences, or
fences of a closed type of construction require approval of the City Commission
and a building permit issued by the City Clerk. Rear yard open-type fences
shall not exceed five feet in height.
   (I)   As construction on each lot is completed, sod shall be placed from the
edge of the paved street, both front and side, to the rear of the building line
of the main structure and across the entire width of the lot, across the
easement between the lot line and the edge of the paved street. Rear yards
shall be finished, graded, and either seeded with grass or sodded.
   (J)   Regarding stormwater drainage, no construction or landscaping is to
alter the existing runoff and drainage of stormwaters without prior approval of
the City Commission. Upon approval, the applicant must obtain a building
permit. No dumping of any refuse or materials in drainage ditches is allowed.
Property owners are required to maintain proper stormwater runoff through all
drainage ditches passing through their lots, as well as keeping catch basins
open and accessible for proper water drainage and maintenance.
   (K)   As construction of the improvements is completed, each lot shall be
landscaped to at least such an extent as will satisfy the minimum requirements
of the Federal Housing Authorities as they may at any time exist.
   (L)   Heating and cooking units in all residences or structures shall be
restricted to oil, gas, or electricity.
   (M)   All driveways shall be of black top or concrete construction, and
shall be completed at the time of building of each residence.
   (N)   Easements are reserved as shown by the recorded plat of Bancroft
Subdivision for various utility installations and maintenance.
   (O)   Every structure erected upon any lot shall comply strictly with all
applicable local, state, and federal laws, building codes, and regulations as
they may now exist or later exist at the time of such construction.
   (P)   No stormwater drains, roof downspouts, or underground drains or
streams shall be connected to or introduced into the sanitary sewer lines
constructed in the city. Further, it is illegal to dispose of any pollutants
into the city’s sanitary system that are injurious to the system, or cause undo
pollution in the output of the sewage treatment plant.
   (Q)   No construction as set out above shall be erected or placed on any lot
until the owner of the property applies to the City Commission for a building
permit and such a permit is issued by the City Clerk. The process for
application, review, and issuance of building permits is available for review
on the city's website and is incorporated here by reference as if fully set
forth herein.
(Prior Code, § 150.03) (Ord. 2-1977, passed 3-3-1977; Ord. passed 4-13-2017;
Ord. 8, Series 2019, passed 12-10-2019) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who violates any provision of the state codes adopted in §
150.01 shall be subject to the following penalties.
      (1)   Violators of the Kentucky Building Code shall, upon conviction, be
subject to a fine of not less than $10 nor more than $1,000 for each offense.
Each day the violation continues shall constitute a separate offense.
(KRS 198B.990(1))
      (2)   Violators of the Kentucky Residential Code shall, upon conviction,
be subject to a fine of not less than $10 nor more than $1,000 for each
offense. Each day the violation continues shall constitute a separate offense.
(KRS 227.990(1))
      (3)   Violators of the Kentucky Plumbing Code shall, upon conviction, be
subject to a fine of not less than $10 nor more than $100, or imprisonment for
not more than 90 days, or both, for each offense. Each day the violation
continues shall constitute a separate offense.
(KRS 318.990)
      (4)   Violations of the Kentucky Standards of Safety, shall, upon
conviction, be subject to a fine of not less than $25 nor more than $1,000, or
confined to the county jail for not more than 60 days, or both, for each
offense. Each day such violations exist shall be considered a separate offense.
(KRS 227.990(1))
   (B)   Any person, firm, or corporation violating any provision of §
150.03 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be
fined not more than $500 or imprisoned for not more than 20 days, or both. Each
and every day during which such violation continues shall be deemed a separate
offense.
(Prior Code, § 150.99) (Ord. 1-1977, passed 3-3-1977; Ord. 2-1977, passed 3-3-
1977; Ord. 11, Series 2015, passed 2-12-2015)
CHAPTER 151: UNFIT STRUCTURES
Section
General Provisions
   
151.01   Kentucky Building Code
   
151.02   Buildings unfit for habitation
   
151.03   County to enforce
Minimum Standards
   
151.15   Compliance
   
151.16   Sanitary facilities required; location
   
151.17   Hot and cold water supply
   
151.18   Water heating facilities
   
151.19   Heating facilities
   
151.20   Cooking and heating equipment
   
151.21   Garbage disposal facilities
   
151.22   Fire protection
   
151.23   Light and ventilation
   
151.24   Electrical systems
   
151.25   Exterior and interior of structures
   
151.26   Minimum dwelling space requirements
   
151.27   Sanitation requirements
 
   
151.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 151.01 KENTUCKY BUILDING CODE.
   Fitness for human habitation, occupancy, or use shall be determined in
accordance with the criteria established in the most current edition of the
Kentucky Building Code or Kentucky Residential Code, whichever may be
applicable, as adopted by reference in §
150.01. Any building or structure which fails to meet such criteria or has any
defects set forth therein shall be deemed unfit for human habitation,
occupancy, or use.
(Prior Code, § 151.01) (Ord. 12, Series 2015, passed 2-12-2015) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.02 BUILDINGS UNFIT FOR HABITATION.
   All buildings or structures within the city which are found to be dangerous
or injurious to the health, safety, and morals of the occupants of the
structure, the occupants of neighboring structures, or other residents of the
city shall be deemed unfit for human habitation, occupancy, or use.
(Prior Code, § 151.02)
§ 151.03 COUNTY TO ENFORCE.
   The County Building Official shall be designated as the local enforcement
agent for this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 151.03)
MINIMUM STANDARDS
§ 151.15 COMPLIANCE.
   No person shall occupy as owner-occupant or let or sublet to another for
occupancy any dwelling or dwelling unit designed or intended to be used for the
purpose of living, sleeping, cooking, or eating therein, nor shall any vacant
dwelling building be permitted to exist which does not comply with the
following requirements in this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 151.15) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.16 SANITARY FACILITIES REQUIRED; LOCATION.
   (A)   Dwelling requirements. Every dwelling unit shall contain not less than
a kitchen sink, lavatory, tub or shower, and a water closet in good working
condition and properly connected to an approved water and sewer system. Every
plumbing fixture and water and waste pipe shall be properly installed and
maintained in good sanitary working condition, free from defects, leaks, and
obstructions.
   (B)   Location of sanitary facilities.
      (1)   All required plumbing fixtures shall be located within the dwelling
unit and be accessible to the occupants of same. The water closet, tub or
shower, and lavatory shall be located in a room affording privacy to the user
and the room shall be a minimum floor space of 30 square feet, with no
dimension less than four feet.
      (2)   Bathrooms shall be accessible from habitable rooms, hallways,
corridors, or other protected or enclosed areas, not including kitchens or
other food preparation areas.
(Prior Code, § 151.16) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.17 HOT AND COLD WATER SUPPLY.
   Every dwelling unit shall have connected to the kitchen sink, lavatory, and
tub or shower an adequate supply of both cold water and hot water. All water
shall be supplied through an approved distribution system connected to a
potable water supply.
(Prior Code, § 151.17) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.18 WATER HEATING FACILITIES.
   Every dwelling shall have water heating facilities which are properly
installed and maintained in a safe and good working condition and are capable
of heating water to such a temperature as to permit an adequate amount of water
to be drawn at every required kitchen sink, lavatory basin, bathtub, or shower
at a temperature of not less than 120°F minimum storage capacity of the water
heater shall be 30 gallons. Those water heating facilities shall be capable of
meeting the requirements of this section when the dwelling or dwelling unit
heating facilities required under the provisions of this chapter are not in
operation.
(Prior Code, § 151.18) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.19 HEATING FACILITIES.
   (A)   Every dwelling unit shall have heating facilities which are properly
installed, are maintained in safe and good working condition, and are capable
of safely and adequately heating all habitable rooms and bathrooms in every
dwelling unit located therein to a temperature of at least 70°F at a distance
three feet above floor level, under ordinary minimum winter conditions.
   (B)   Unvented fuel burning heaters shall be prohibited.
(Prior Code, § 151.19) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.20 COOKING AND HEATING EQUIPMENT.
   All cooking and heating equipment and facilities shall be installed in
accordance with the Commonwealth Building Code and shall be maintained in a
safe and good working condition. Portable cooking equipment employing flame is
prohibited.
(Prior Code, § 151.20) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.21 GARBAGE DISPOSAL FACILITIES.
   Every dwelling unit shall have adequate garbage disposal facilities or
garbage storage containers, the type and location of which facilities or
containers are approved by the County Building Official.
(Prior Code, § 151.21) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.22 FIRE PROTECTION.
   A person shall not occupy as owner-occupant or shall let to another for
occupancy, any building or structure which does not comply with the applicable
provisions of the Commonwealth Building Code.
(Prior Code, § 151.22) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.23 LIGHT AND VENTILATION.
   (A)   Size. Every habitable room shall have at least one window or skylight
facing directly to the outdoors. The minimum total window area, measured
between stops, for every habitable room shall be 8% of the floor area of that
room. Whenever walls or other portions of structures face a window of any room
and those light-obstruction structures are located at least three feet from the
window and extend to a level above that of the ceiling of the room, such a
window shall not be deemed to face directly to the outdoors and shall not be
included as contributing to the required minimum total window area. Whenever
the only window in a room is a skylight-type window in the top of that room,
the total window area of the skylight shall equal at least 15% of the total
floor area of the room.
   (B)   Habitable rooms.
      (1)   Every habitable room shall have at least one window or skylight
which can be easily opened, or any other device as will adequately ventilate
the room. The total of openable window area in every habitable room shall equal
at least 45% of the minimum window area size or minimum skylight-type window
size, as required, or shall have other approved, equivalent ventilation.
      (2)   Year-round mechanically ventilating conditioned air systems may be
substituted for windows, as required herein, in rooms other than rooms used for
sleeping purposes. Window-type air conditioning units are not included in this
exception.
   (C)   Bathroom. Every bathroom shall comply with the light and ventilation
requirements for habitable rooms except that no window or skylight shall be
required in adequately ventilated bathrooms equipped with an approved
ventilating system.
   (D)   Electric lights and outlets required. Where there is electric service
available to the building structure, every habitable room or space shall
contain at least two separate and remote convenience outlets and bedrooms shall
have, in addition, at least one wall switch controlled ceiling or wall-type
light fixture. In kitchens, three separate and remote convenience outlets shall
be provided, and a wall or ceiling type light fixture controlled by a wall
switch shall be required. Every hall, water closet compartment, bathroom,
laundry room, or furnace room shall contain at least one electric fixture. In
bathrooms, the electric light fixture shall be controlled by a wall switch. In
addition to the electric light fixture in every bathroom and laundry room,
there shall be provided at least one convenience outlet. Every outlet and
fixture shall be properly installed, shall be maintained in good and safe
working condition, and shall be connected to the source of electric power in a
safe manner.
   (E)   Light in public halls and stairways. Every common hall and inside
stairway in every building, other than one-family dwellings, shall be
adequately lighted at all times with an illumination of at least one footcandle
intensity at the floor in the darkest portion of the normally traveled stairs
and passageways.
(Prior Code, § 151.23) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.24 ELECTRICAL SYSTEMS.
   Every electrical outlet and fixture required by this chapter shall be
installed, maintained, and connected to a source of electric power in
accordance with the provisions of Title 815, Chapters 7 and 35, of the Kentucky
Administrative Regulations and the National Electrical Code adopted as part of
the Kentucky Building Code in §
151.01.
(Prior Code, § 151.24) (Ord. 13, Series 2015, passed 2-12-2015) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.25 EXTERIOR AND INTERIOR OF STRUCTURES.
   (A)   Foundation. The building foundation system shall be maintained in a
safe manner and capable of supporting the load which normal use may cause to be
placed thereon.
   (B)   Exterior walls. Every exterior wall shall be free of holes, breaks,
loose, or rotting boards or timbers, and any other conditions which might admit
rain or dampness to the interior portions of the walls or to the occupied
spaces of the building. All siding material shall be kept in repair.
   (C)   Roofs. Roofs shall be structurally sound and maintained in a safe
manner and have no defects which might admit rain or cause dampness in the
walls or interior portion of the building.
   (D)   Means of egress. Every dwelling unit shall have safe, unobstructed
means of egress with minimum ceiling height of seven feet leading to a safe and
open space at ground level. Stairs shall have a minimum headroom of six feet
eight inches.
   (E)   Stairs, porches, and appurtenances. Every inside and outside stair,
porch, and any appurtenance thereto shall be safe to use and capable of
supporting the load that normal use may cause to be placed thereon; and shall
be kept in sound condition and good repair.
   (F)   Protective railings. Protective railings shall be required on any
unenclosed structure over 30 inches from the ground level or on any steps
containing four risers or more.
   (G)   Windows and doors. Every window, exterior door, and basement or cellar
door and hatchway shall be substantially weathertight, watertight, and rodent-
proof; and shall be kept in sound working condition and good repair.
   (H)   Windows to be glazed. Every window sash shall be fully supplied with
glass window panes or an approved substitute which are without open cracks or
holes.
   (I)   Window sash. Window sash shall be properly fitted and weathertight
within the window frame.
   (J)   Windows to be openable. Every window required for light and
ventilation for habitable rooms shall be capable of being easily opened and
secured in position by window hardware.
   (K)   Hardware. Every exterior door shall be provided with proper hardware
and maintained in good condition.
   (L)   Door frames. Every exterior door shall fit reasonably well within its
frame so as to substantially exclude rain and wind from entering the dwelling
building.
   (M)   Screens. Every door opening directly from a dwelling unit to outdoor
space shall have screen doors with a self-closing device; and every window or
other device with opening to outdoor space, used or intended to be used for
ventilation, shall likewise have screens.
   (N)   Protective treatment. All exterior wood surface, other than decay-
resistant woods, shall be protected from the elements and decay by painting or
other protective covering or treatment.
   (O)   Accessory structures. Garages, storage buildings, and other accessory
structures shall be maintained and kept in good repair and sound structural
condition.
   (P)   Interior floor, walls, and ceilings.
      (1)   Every floor, interior wall, and ceiling shall be substantially
rodent-proof; shall be kept in sound condition and good repair; and shall be
safe to use and capable of supporting the load which normal use may cause to be
placed thereon.
      (2)   Every toilet, bathroom, and kitchen floor surface shall be
constructed and maintained so as to be substantially impervious to water and so
as to permit the floor to be easily kept in a clean and sanitary condition.
   (Q)   Structural supports. Every structural element of the dwelling shall be
maintained structurally sound and show no evidence of deterioration which would
render them incapable of carrying loads which normal use may cause to be placed
thereon.
   (R)   Protective railings for interior stairs.
      (1)   Interior stairs and stairwells more than four risers high shall
have handrails located in accordance with the requirements of the Commonwealth
Building Code adopted in §
151.01.
      (2)   Handrails or protective railings shall be capable of bearing
normally imposed loads and be maintained in good condition.
(Prior Code, § 151.25) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.26 MINIMUM DWELLING SPACE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Required space in dwelling unit.
      (1)   Every dwelling unit shall contain at least 150 square feet of floor
space for the first occupant thereof and at least 100 additional square feet of
floor area per additional occupant.
      (2)   The floor area shall be calculated on the basis of the total area
of all habitable rooms.
   (B)   Required space in sleeping rooms. In every dwelling unit of two or
more rooms, every room occupied for sleeping purposes by one occupant shall
contain at least 70 square feet of floor space, and every room occupied for
sleeping purposes by more than one occupant shall contain at least 50 square
feet of floor space for each occupant thereof.
   (C)   Minimum ceiling height.
      (1)   Habitable (space) rooms other than kitchens, storage rooms, and
laundry rooms shall have a ceiling height of not less than seven feet.
Hallways, corridors, bathrooms, water closet rooms, and kitchens shall have a
ceiling height of not less than seven feet measured to the lowest projection
from the ceiling.
      (2)   If any room in a building has a sloping ceiling, the prescribed
ceiling height for the room is required in only one-half the area thereof. No
portion of the room measuring less than five feet from the finished floor to
the finished ceiling shall be included in any computation of the minimum area
thereof.
   (D)   Occupancy of dwelling unit below grade. No basement or cellar space
shall be used as a habitable room or dwelling unit unless:
      (1)   The floor and walls are impervious to leakage of underground and
surface runoff water and are insulated against dampness;
      (2)   The total of window area in each room is equal to at least the
minimum window area size as required in §
151.23(A);
      (3)   The required minimum window area is located entirely above the
grade of the ground adjoining that window area; and
      (4)   The total of openable window area in each room is equal to at least
the minimum as required under §
151.23(B), except where there is supplied some other device affording adequate
ventilation.
(Prior Code, § 151.26) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.27 SANITATION REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Sanitation. Every owner of a multiple dwelling shall be responsible
for maintaining in a clean and sanitary condition the shared or common areas of
the dwelling and premises thereof.
   (B)   Cleanliness. Every tenant of a dwelling unit shall keep in a clean and
sanitary condition that part of the dwelling, dwelling unit, and premises
thereof which he or she occupies or which is provided for his or her particular
use.
   (C)   Garbage disposal. Every tenant of a dwelling or dwelling unit shall
dispose of all his or her garbage and any other organic waste which might
provide food for rodents and all rubbish in a clean and sanitary manner by
placing it in the garbage disposal facilities or garbage or rubbish storage
containers.
   (D)   Care of premises.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for the owner or occupant of a residential
building, structure, or property to utilize the premises of that residential
property for the open storage of any abandoned motor vehicle, ice box,
refrigerator, stove, glass, building material, building rubbish, or similar
items.
      (2)   It shall be the duty and responsibility of every owner or occupant
to keep the premises of the residential property clean and to remove from the
premises all abandoned items as listed above, including, but not limited to,
weeds, dead trees, trash, garbage, and the like, upon notice from the County
Building Official.
   (E)   Extermination. Every occupant of a single-dwelling building and every
owner of a building containing two or more dwelling units shall be responsible
for the extermination of any insects, rodents, or other pests within the
building or premises.
   (F)   Use and operation of supplied plumbing fixtures. Every tenant of a
dwelling unit shall keep all plumbing fixtures therein in a clean and sanitary
condition and shall be responsible for the exercise of reasonable care in the
proper use and operation thereof.
(Prior Code, § 151.27) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   The owner of any structure determined to be unfit under this chapter
who shall fail to comply with any notice or order to repair, vacate, or
demolish a structure issued by the County Building Official shall be guilty of
a violation and, upon conviction, shall be fined as set forth in §
150.99.
   (B)   The occupant or lessee in possession who fails to comply with any
notice to vacate and who fails to repair a building in accordance with any
notice issued by the County Building Official shall be guilty of a violation
and, upon conviction, shall be fined as set forth in §
150.99.
   (C)   Every day a failure to comply continues shall be considered a separate
offense.
(Prior Code, § 151.99)
CHAPTER 152: ABATEMENT AND DECONTAMINATION OF PROPERTIES SUBJECT TO A
METHAMPHETAMINE CONTAMINATION NOTICE; LIEN
Section
   
152.01   Definitions
   
152.02   Regulations
   
152.99   Penalty
§ 152.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABATEMENT COSTS. The City of Bancroft's necessary and reasonable costs for
and associated with clearing, preventing unauthorized entry to, or demolishing
all or a portion of a structure or premises, or taking any other action with
regard to a structure or premises necessary to remedy a violation and to
maintain and preserve public health, safety, and welfare in accordance with any
City of Bancroft ordinance.
   IMMINENT DANGER. A condition which is likely to cause serious or life-
threatening injury or death at any time.
   OWNER. A person, association, corporation, partnership or other legal entity
having a legal or equitable title in real property.
   PREMISES. A lot, plot, or parcel of land, including any structures upon it.
(Ord. 7, Series 2019, passed 12-10-2019)
§ 152.02 REGULATIONS.
   (A)   An owner shall not permit any structure upon his or her premises to
become unfit and unsafe for human habitation, occupancy or use, or to permit
conditions to exist on the structure or premises which are dangerous or
injurious to the health or safety of the occupants of the structure, the
occupants of neighboring structures, or other residents of the city.
   (B)   The city may abate and decontaminate a property where a
methamphetamine contamination notice has been posted, as provided in KRS 224.1-
410. Such abatement and decontamination shall be done in accordance with 401
KAR 101:001, et seq., which sets standards for contractor certification and
cleanup and sampling requirements, as well as in accordance with all other
applicable statutes, regulations, codes, and ordinances. The city is expressly
permitted to elect to demolish any unfit or unsafe structure(s) on the premises
as an alternative to decontaminating said structure(s).
   (C)   An owner shall have the right to request a hearing within 30 days from
the date a methamphetamine contamination notice, as provided in KRS 224.1-410,
has been posted on the premises and has been sent to the owner by certified
mail return receipt requested. Such a request must be made in writing to the
City Commissioners through the Mayor, the Commissioner of Public Services, or
the City Clerk within the 30-day deadline in order to be considered timely.
   (D)   Prior to taking any action to abate, decontaminate, or demolish a
property where a methamphetamine contamination notice has been posted, as
provided in KRS 224.1-410, the city shall provide written notice to the owner
of the property providing the city's determination. Such notice shall be
provided to the owner by certified mail return receipt requested within 14 days
of a final determination after a hearing held pursuant to the owner's request
as described in division (C), above, or within 14 days after the deadline for
the owner to request a hearing as described in division (C), above, has passed.
   (E)   Unless immediate danger exists on the subject premises that
necessitates immediate action, the city shall send, within 14 days of a final
determination after a hearing held pursuant to the owner's request as described
in division (C), above, or within 14 days after the deadline for the owner to
request a hearing as described in division (C), above, has passed, a copy of
the notice of the city's determination to any lien holder of record of the
subject premises by first-class mail with proof of mailing. The lienholder of
record may, within 45 days from receipt of that notice, correct the violations
cited or elect to pay all civil fines assessed for the violation and all
charges and fees incurred by the city in connection with the enforcement of
this chapter, including abatement costs, as permitted by division (F) of this
section.
   (F)   The city shall have a lien against the property for all civil fines
assessed for the violation and for all charges and fees incurred by the local
government in connection with the enforcement of this chapter, including
abatement costs. The affidavit of the city police chief shall constitute prima
facie evidence of the amount of the lien and the regularity of the proceedings
pursuant to this section, and shall be recorded in the office of the County
Clerk. The lien shall be notice to all persons from the time of its recording
and shall bear interest thereafter until paid. The lien created shall take
precedence over all other liens, except state, county, school board, and city
taxes, except as provided in division (G) of this section. The city shall
possess the lien for ten years following the date of the final judgment of the
court. The lien may be enforced by judicial proceeding.
   (G)   The lien provided in division (F) of this section shall not take
precedence or priority over a previously recorded lien if:
      (1)   The city failed to provide the lienholder a copy of the
determination in accordance with division (E) of this section; or
      (2)   The lienholder received a copy of the determination as required by
division (E) of this section, and the lienholder corrected the violation or
paid all civil fines assessed for the violation and all charges and fees
incurred by the city in connection with enforcement of this chapter, including
abatement costs.
   (H)   The owner of the premises upon which a lien has been attached pursuant
to this section shall be personally liable for the amount of the lien,
including all civil fines assessed for the violation and all charges, fees, and
abatement costs incurred by the city in connection with the enforcement of this
chapter. The city may bring a civil action against the owner and shall have the
same remedies as provided for the recovery of a debt owed. The failure of the
city to comply with division (E) of this section, and the failure of a lien to
take precedence over previously filed liens as provided in division (G) of this
section, shall not limit or restrict any remedies that the city has against the
owner of the premises.
(Ord. 7, Series 2019, passed 12-10-2019) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Criminal.
      (1)   Any person who shall violate any provision of this chapter shall be
guilty of a violation and fined not less than $50 nor more than $500.
      (2)   Where Kentucky Revised Statutes mandate a fine higher than that
stipulated herein, the fine contained in Kentucky Revised Statues shall apply.
      (3)   Any continuing violation of this chapter shall be considered a
separate and distinct offense for each day on which a violation occurs or
continues, and a separate penalty shall be imposed therefor.
   (B)   Civil. Any person who violates any provision of this chapter shall be
subject to a civil penalty in an amount equal to two times the minimum fine
prescribed in this chapter, with a minimum civil penalty of $50 for each
violation.
(Ord. 7, Series 2019, passed 12-10-2019)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   Table
      
I.   ANNEXATIONS
      
II.   FRANCHISES
      
III.   CONTRACTS AND AGREEMENTS
TABLE I: ANNEXATIONS
 
Ord. Date   Description
No.  Passed
            Annexing certain territory beginning at a point, said point being the northwesterly
            corner of Lot 1 as shown on the plat of Bancroft Subdivision, the plat of which is
            recorded in plat and subdivision book 24, page 20, in the office of the Clerk of the
            County Court; thence north 49 degrees 49’ 55”, east 2889.55’ to a point; thence south
            nine degrees 01’ 06”, east 788.22’ to a point; thence south 85 degrees 42’ 56” east
14-  12-8-  190.99’ to a point; thence south 16 degrees 44’ 23”, west 2955.33’ to a point; thence
1970 1970   north 37 degrees 14’ 21”, west 816.33’ to a point; thence south 52 degrees 33’ 25” west
            192.38’ to a point; thence north 39 degrees 52’ 21” west 1597.51’ to the point of
            beginning; and being the same boundaries as shown on the plat of the Bancroft
            Subdivision recorded in plat and subdivision book 24, page 20, in the office of the
            Clerk of the County Court; excepting therefrom that portion of the property described
            as follows:
            Beginning at the most northwesterly corner of Lot 1 as shown on the plat of Bancroft
            Subdivision and recorded in plat and subdivision book 24, page 20, in the office of the
            Clerk of the County Court; running thence north 50 degrees 07’ 39” east 1520’ to a
            point; running thence south 39 degrees 52’ 21” east 1520’ to a point; running thence
            south 50 degrees 07’ 39” west 1520’ to a point; and running thence north 39 degrees 52’
            21” west 1520’ to the point of beginning; the same being the existing boundaries of the
            city
            Annexing certain territory beginning at a stone in the northeast corner of Lot 18 of
            the city recorded in plat and subdivision book 24, page 20 in the office of the Clerk
            of the County Court, said point also being the southeast corner of the tract of land
            conveyed to Thomas Nugent recorded in deed book 2667, page 250, in the aforementioned
            Clerk’s office; running thence with the north line of Lot 18 abovementioned 30.19’ to
            an iron pipe and extending to the northwest 33 degrees 36’ 45”, west between parallel
            lines 30’ apart of the center line of Brownsboro Road, the east line of which measures
            1845.54’ and is contiguous with the west line of the Nugent tract aforementioned and
            the west line of which measures 1847.36’ and is contiguous with the east line of the
            tract conveyed to F.W. Ownes, Sr. by deed recorded in deed book 2506, page 513, in the
            aforementioned Clerk’s office. Containing 1.27 acres and being the same property
7-   5-4-   conveyed to Louis and Marie Hollenback in deed book 1927, page 316, Tract 2 and also
1971 1971   being a part of the property conveyed to The Jay Gee Realty Co., by deed recorded in
            deed book 3428, page 83, in the office of the Clerk of the County Court, and same being
            all of the property located outside of the boundaries of Bancroft Subdivision as said
            Subdivision is recorded in plat and subdivision book 24, page 20, in the aforesaid
            Clerk’s office, and owned by The Jay Gee Realty Co. Beginning at a point in the north
            line of Old Salem Road at the most easterly corner of Lot 18 in the city recorded in
            plat and subdivision book 24, page 20, in the office of the Clerk of the County Court;
            running thence with the north line of Old Salem Road and a curve to the left the radius
            of which is 787’, an arc distance of 30.20’ to a point and extending back to the
            northwest north 40 degrees 25’ 58” west; between parallel lines 30.19’ apart to the
            north line of Lot 18 aforementioned, the east line of which is contiguous with the east
            line of said Lot 18 and measures 107.43’, and the west line of which measures 108.14’
 
TABLE II: FRANCHISES
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No.       Date Passed Description
2-1980         - -         Granting a cable television franchise to CPI of
                           Louisville
                           Granting a renewal franchise agreement for community
5-1995         12-14-1995  antenna television (CATV) services to TCI TKR of
                           Jefferson County
                           Approving and awarding a renewal franchise agreement
5 Series 1995  12-14-1995  for community antenna television (CATV) services of
                           TCI TKR of Jefferson County, Inc., d/b/a/ TKR Cable
                           of Greater Louisville
                           Approving the transfer of a franchise from
2, 1999        9-9-1999    Intermedia Capital Management VI, 11c to Insight
                           Communications Company L.P.
                           Approving the extension of the franchise agreement
3, Series 2011 11-10-2011  for community antenna television (CATV) services to
                           Insight Kentucky Partners II L.P.
                           Approving the extension of the franchise agreement
3, Series 2013 11-14-2013  for community antenna television (CATV) services to
                           Insight Kentucky Partners II L.P.
                           Granting a communications franchise and authorizing
2, Series 2016 7-14-2016   execution of a uniform franchise agreement to Google
                           Fiber Kentucky, LLC
                          
 
TABLE III: CONTRACTS AND AGREEMENTS
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
                     Approving a joint and cooperative program for self-
1-1993   5-13-1993   insurance, insurance, and the investment of public funds
                     among various cities, urban-county governments, and other
                     public agencies within the commonwealth
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Kentucky Revised Statutes
References to Prior Code
References to Resolutions
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO KENTUCKY REVISED STATUTES
KRS Section Code Section
KRS Section           Code Section
6.050                 32.42
6.955 to 6.975        33.04
Ch. 13A               93.02
Ch. 13B               93.06
16.220                72.26
Ch. 18                112.03
41.240(4)             33.05
42.450 to 42.495      33.04
Ch. 61                32.16
61.168                34.26
61.169                34.26
61.823(2) through (4) 91.20
                      10.18,
                      34.15,
61.870 et seq.        34.26,
                      37.067,
                      37.073,
                      111.005
61.870 to 61.884      34.27,
                      37.074
61.870(1)             34.01
61.870(2)             34.01
61.870(3)             34.01
61.870(4)             34.01
61.870(5)             34.01
61.870(6)             34.01
61.870(7)             34.01
61.870(8)             34.01
61.872 to 61.884      37.019
61.872(1) through (3) 34.15
61.872(4)             34.16
61.872(5)             34.17
61.872(6)             34.18
61.874(1)             34.22
61.874(2)             34.22
61.874(3)             34.23
61.874(4)             34.23
61.874(5)             34.24
61.874(6)             34.25
61.878                34.01
61.878(1)             34.26
61.878(2)             34.26
61.878(3)             34.26
61.878(4)             34.26
61.878(5)             34.26
61.878(6)             34.26
61.880(1)             34.19,
                      34.26
61.884                34.21
62.060                31.01
65.003                37.003
65.067                31.01
65.120                Ch. 72
65.210 et seq.        37.065
66.660                91.06
82.082                37.003
Ch. 83A               31.20
83A.010(3)            10.02
83A.010(6)            10.02
83A.010(8)            10.02
83A.030(2)            30.02
83A.040(1)            31.21
83A.040(2)            31.21
83A.040(2)(a)         31.21
83A.040(2)(b)         31.21
83A.040(2)(d)         31.21
83A.040(3)            31.21
83A.040(4)            32.01
83A.040(5)            32.02
83A.040(6)            31.21,
                      32.02
83A.040(7)            31.21,
                      32.02
83A.040(8)            31.21,
                      32.02
83A.040(9)            31.03
83A.050               31.20,
                      32.01
83A.060(1)            32.30
83A.060(2)            32.31
83A.060(3)            32.32
83A.060(4)            32.33
83A.060(5)            32.34
83A.060(6)            32.17
83A.060(7)            32.33
83A.060(8)            32.35,
                      32.36
83A.060(9)            32.37
83A.060(10)           32.38
83A.060(11)           32.39
83A.060(12)           31.05,
                      32.40
83A.060(13)           31.05,
                      32.40
83A.060(14)           32.41
83A.060(15)           32.42
83A.065               10.99
83A.070               31.02
83A.070(1)            31.02
83A.070(2)            31.02
83A.070(3)            31.02
83A.075               31.02
83A.080               31.35,
                      37.004
83A.080(2)            31.35
83A.080(3)            31.03,
                      31.35
83A.080(4)            31.20
83A.080(5)            31.20
83A.085               31.36
83A.090               10.18,
                      32.04
83A.130 to 83A.150    31.21
83A.140               35.001
83A.140(1)            30.01
83A.140(3)            32.03
83A.140(4)            31.21,
                      32.15
83A.140(5)            32.03
83A.140(6)            32.04
83A.140(7)            32.16
83A.140(8)            32.03
83A.175               32.02
91A.010               33.01
91A.010(8)            10.02
91A.020               33.02
91A.030               33.03
91A.040               33.04
91A.040(4)            33.04
91A.050               33.04
91A.060               33.05
91A.080               112.06
91A.200               33.21
91A.210               33.20
91A.220               33.21
91A.230               33.22
91A.240               33.23
91A.250               33.24
91A.260               33.25
91A.270               33.26
91A.280               33.27
91A.290               33.28
Ch. 92                36.07
Ch. 107               33.21
Chs. 116 through 121  31.20
118.305(7)            32.02
131.010(6)            112.04
132.285               36.03,
                      36.03
Ch. 134               36.07
134.420               36.09
134.800               36.10
134.810               36.10
136.600 et seq.       111.034,
                      111.043
139.200               93.03
Ch. 154               34.26
174.100               91.20
174.100(1)            91.21
174.100(2)            91.22
174.100(3)            91.23
174.100(4)            91.24
174.100(5)            91.25
178.290               91.06
186.020               72.26
186A.145              72.26
186A.190              72.26
189.020               71.37
189.030               71.38
189.040               71.07
189.040(5)            71.38
189.050               71.07
189.055               71.07
189.060               71.07
189.080               71.37
189.140               71.37
189.221               71.08
189.222               71.08
189.222(1)            71.08
189.222(11)           71.08 
189.2226              71.08
189.230(4)            71.08
189.285               73.02
                      71.07,
189.287               71.37,
                      73.01
189.290               71.35
189.300(2)            71.06
189.338               70.20
189.390               71.05
189.394               71.99
189.450(5)            72.03
189.450(6)            72.03
189.580               71.20
189.725               72.08
189.930               71.36
189.990               71.20
189.993(8)            71.99
198B.990(1)           150.99
Ch. 224               71.37
224.1-410             152.02
227.330(6)            93.03
227.700               93.01
227.700 to 227.750    93.01,
                      93.06
227.702               93.01
227.704               93.01
227.706               93.01
227.708               93.01
227.710               93.02
227.715               93.02,
                      93.03
227.720               93.04
227.730               93.05
227.750               93.06
227.990(1)            150.99
227.990(4)            93.99
257.010               90.01
257.100(1)            90.06
257.100(2)            90.06
257.100(3)            90.06
257.100(4)            90.06
281.605(12)           72.26
281.920 - 281.936     72.26
281.926               72.26
281.928               72.26
281.928(1)            72.26
281.932               72.26
318.990               150.99
Ch. 324               112.03
Ch. 342               111.065
359.230               72.26
376.275               72.26
376.275(1)            72.26
376.275(2)            72.26
376.275(3)            72.27
                      32.37,
Ch. 424               33.04,
                      33.24,
                      33.25
424.190(2)            33.04
424.220               33.04
424.220(6)(b)         33.04
436.600               90.04,
                      90.99
446.010(1)            10.02
446.010(2)            10.02
446.010(9)            10.02
446.010(10)           10.02
446.010(12)           10.02
446.010(13)           10.02
446.010(14)           10.02
446.010(15)           10.02
446.010(17)           10.02
446.010(23)           10.02
446.010(26)           10.02
446.010(27)           10.02
446.010(28)           10.02
446.010(30)           10.02
446.010(31)           10.02
446.010(33)           10.02
446.010(37)           10.02
446.010(39)           10.02
446.010(43)           10.02
446.010(46)           10.02
446.010(47)           10.02
446.010(49)           10.02
446.010(55)           10.02
446.020(1)            10.03
446.020(2)            10.03
446.080(1)            10.03
446.080(3)            10.03
446.080(4)            10.03
446.030               10.04
446.050               10.05
446.060               10.06
446.090               10.07
446.100               10.08
446.110               10.09
446.140               10.01
525.125               90.03
525.130               90.03,
                      90.99
534.040(2)(c)         10.99
                      
 
REFERENCES TO PRIOR CODE
Prior Code Code Section
Prior Code Code Section
10.01      10.01
10.02      10.02
10.03      10.03
10.04      10.04
10.05      10.05
10.06      10.06
10.07      10.07
10.08      10.08
10.09      10.09
10.10      10.10
10.11      10.11
10.12      10.12
10.13      10.13
10.14      10.14
10.15      10.15
10.16      10.16
10.17      10.17
10.18      10.18
10.99      10.99
30.01      30.01
30.02      30.02
31.01      31.01
31.02      31.02
31.03      31.03
31.04      31.04
31.20      31.20
31.21      31.21
31.22      31.22
31.35      31.35
31.36      31.36
31.37      31.37
31.38      31.38
31.45      31.50
32.01      32.01
32.02      32.02
32.03      32.03
32.04      32.04
32.20      32.15
32.21      32.16
32.22      32.17
32.35      32.30
32.36      32.31
32.37      32.32
32.38      32.33
32.39      32.34
32.40      32.35
32.41      32.36
32.42      32.37
32.43      32.38
32.44      32.39
32.45      32.40
32.46      32.41
32.47      32.42
33.01      33.01
33.02      33.02
33.03      33.03
33.04      33.04,
           33.99
33.05      33.05
33.06      33.06
33.10      33.20
33.11      33.21
33.12      33.22
33.13      33.23
33.14      33.24
33.15      33.25
33.16      33.26
33.17      33.27
33.18      33.28
34.01      34.01
34.05      34.15
34.06      34.16
34.07      34.17
34.08      34.18
34.09      34.19
34.10      34.20
34.11      34.21
34.12      34.22
34.13      34.23
34.14      34.24
34.15      34.25
34.16      34.26
34.17      34.27
35.01      35.001
35.10      35.015
35.11      35.016
35.25      35.030
35.26      35.031
35.40      35.045
35.41      35.046
35.70      35.060
35.71      35.061
36.01      36.01
36.02      36.02
36.03      36.03
36.04      36.04
36.05      36.05
36.06      36.06
36.07      36.07
36.08      36.08
36.09      36.09
36.10      36.10
37.01      37.001
37.02      37.002
37.03      37.003
37.04      37.004
37.20      37.015
37.21      37.016,
           37.999
37.22      37.017
37.23      37.018
37.24      37.019
37.35      37.030
37.36      37.031
37.37      37.032
37.38      37.033
37.39      37.034
37.40      37.035,
           37.999
37.50      37.050
37.60      37.065
37.61      37.066
37.62      37.067
37.63      37.068,
           37.999
37.64      37.069
37.65      37.070
37.66      37.071
37.67      37.072
37.68      37.073
37.69      37.074
37.99      37.999
50.01      50.01
50.02      50.02
50.03      50.03
50.15      50.15
50.16      50.16
50.17      50.17
50.18      50.18
50.30      50.30
50.31      50.31
50.99      50.99
70.01      70.01
70.02      70.02
70.03      70.03
70.04      70.04
70.05      70.05
70.15      70.20
70.16      70.21
70.17      70.22
70.18      70.23
70.19      70.24
70.20      70.25
70.21      70.26
70.99      70.99
71.01      71.01
71.02      71.02
71.03      71.03
71.04      71.04
71.05      71.05,
           71.99
71.06      71.06
71.07      71.07
71.08      71.08
71.15      71.20
71.16      71.21
71.25      71.35
71.26      71.36
71.27      71.37
71.28      71.38
71.40      71.50
71.41      71.51
71.42      71.52
71.43      71.53
71.44      71.54
71.45      71.55
71.46      71.56
71.47      71.57
71.48      71.58
71.49      71.59
71.50      71.60
71.51      71.61
71.99      71.99
72.01      72.01
72.02      72.02
72.03      72.03
72.04      72.04
72.05      72.05
72.06      72.06
72.07      72.07
72.08      72.08
72.09      72.09
72.10      72.10
72.11      72.11
72.12      72.12
72.20      72.25
72.21      72.26
72.22      72.27
72.35      72.40
72.36      72.41
72.37      72.42
72.99      72.99
73.01      73.01
73.02      73.02
73.03      73.03
73.04      73.04
73.99      73.99
90.01      90.01
90.02      90.02
90.03      90.03
90.04      90.04
90.05      90.05
90.06      90.06
90.15      90.20
90.16      90.21
90.17      90.22
90.18      90.23
90.30      90.35
90.31      90.36
90.32      90.37
90.33      90.38
90.34      90.39
90.99      90.99
91.01      91.01
91.02      91.02
91.03      91.03
91.04      91.04
91.05      91.05
91.06      91.06
91.15      91.20
91.16      91.21
91.17      91.22
91.18      91.23
91.19      91.24
91.20      91.25
91.30      91.40
91.31      91.41
91.32      91.42
91.33      91.43
91.99      91.99
93.01      93.01
93.02      93.02
93.03      93.03
93.04      93.04
93.05      93.05
93.06      93.06
93.20      93.20
93.21      93.21
93.99      93.99
94.01      94.01
94.02      94.02
94.03      94.03
94.04      94.04
94.05      94.05
94.99      94.99
95.01      95.01
95.02      95.99
140.01     130.01
140.02     130.02
140.99     130.99
150.01     150.01
150.02     150.02
150.03     150.03
150.99     150.99
151.01     151.01
151.02     151.02
151.03     151.03
151.15     151.15
151.16     151.16
151.17     151.17
151.18     151.18
151.19     151.19
151.20     151.20
151.21     151.21
151.22     151.22
151.23     151.23
151.24     151.24
151.25     151.25
151.26     151.26
151.27     151.27
           
 
REFERENCES TO RESOLUTIONS
 
Res. No Date Passed Code Section
2, 1999 9-9-1999    TSO Table II
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord./Order No Date Passed Code Section
Ord./Order No   Date Passed Code Section
2-1980          - -         TSO Table II
2 Series 1998   - -         92.01—
                            92.06
3-1970          8-20-1970   31.36,
                            31.37
14-1970         12-8-1970   TSO Table I
7-1971          5-4-1971    TSO Table I
6-1973          3-1-1973    31.36
1-1977          3-3-1977    150.99
2-1977          3-3-1977    150.03,
                            150.99
3-1977          3-3-1977    90.35—
                            90.39
                            71.05—
                            71.07,
4-1977          3-3-1977    71.37,
                            71.38,
                            71.99,
                            72.06
5-1977          3-3-1977    130.02
8-1977          3-3-1977    130.01
1-1984          1-5-1984    32.16
                            35.001,
                            35.015,
                            35.016,
2-1986          4-3-1986    35.045,
                            35.046,
                            35.060,
                            35.061
3-1986          5-8-1986    31.04
1-1987          4-2-1987    31.36
5-1987          10-8-1987   32.16
6-87            10-8-1987   32.16
                            36.03—
3-1988          9-8-1988    36.05,
                            36.07,
                            36.09
                            50.30—
1-1990          7-12-1990   50.32,
                            50.99
4-1990          8-9-1990    36.04,
                            36.07
1-1993          5-13-1993   TSO Table III
                            37.001—
                            37.004,
                            37.015—
                            37.019,
5-1994          12-8-1994   37.030—
                            37.035,
                            37.050,
                            37.065—
                            37.074,
                            37.999
5-1995          12-14-1995  TSO Table II
5 Series 1995   12-14-1995  TSO Table II
                            37.030—
5-1996          11-14-1996  37.032,
                            37.034
7, Series 1997  12-11-1997  31.36
8, Series 1997  12-11-1997  35.030—
                            35.032
1               11-12-1998  31.05
3, Series 1999  6-10-1999   35.031
1, Series 2000  8-10-2000   72.99
1, Series 2001  1-11-2001   112.01—
                            112.07
12, Series 2002 3-12-2002   38.01
                            110.01—
1-04            2-12-2004   110.11,
                            110.99
3, Series 2011  11-10-2011  TSO Table II
3, Series 2013  11-14-2013  TSO Table II
4, Series 2013  12-12-2013  130.02
1, Series 2015  2-12-2015   34.15
2, Series 2015  2-12-2015   34.26
4, Series 2015  2-12-2015   37.067
5, Series 2015  2-12-2015   37.073
6, Series 2015  2-12-2015   71.08
7, Series 2015  2-12-2015   110.04
8, Series 2015  2-12-2015   112.03
9, Series 2015  2-12-2015   150.01
10, Series 2015 2-12-2015   150.02
11, Series 2015 2-12-2015   150.99
12, Series 2015 2-12-2015   151.01
13, Series 2015 2-12-2015   151.24
3, Series 2015  3-12-2015   35.001
15, Series 2015 3-12-2015   35.046
16, Series 2015 3-12-2015   35.016
18, Series 2015 6-11-2015   35.075,
                            35.076
19, Series 2015 6-11-2015   92.02
20, Series 2015 6-11-2015   92.04
21, Series 2015 6-11-2015   92.05
2, Series 2016  7-14-2016   TSO Table II
- -             4-13-2017   72.06
- -             4-13-2017   150.03
2, Series 2018  6-14-2018   36.04
1, Series 2019  3-14-2019   112.02,
                            112.03
2, Series 2019  6-13-2019   92.02
                            113.01—
3, Series 2019  6-13-2019   113.04,
                            113.99
4, Series 2019  6-13-2019   35.061
5, Series 2019  6-13-2019   36.04
                            152.01,
7, Series 2019  12-10-2019  152.02,
                            152.99
8, Series 2019  12-10-2019  150.03
1, Series 2020  3-12-2020   91.44
2, Series 2020  6-11-2020   36.04
                            111.001—
                            111.010,
                            111.025—
                            111.045,
4, Series 2020  10-8-2020   111.060—
                            111.074,
                            111.090—
                            111.092,
                            111.105—
                            111.117
1, Series 202   6-10-2021   36.04
3, Series 2022  6-9-2022    36.04
1, Series 2023  1-25-2023   32.16
2, Series 2023  6-14-2023   36.04
1, Series 2024  6-12-2024   36.04
                           
 
