BELLEWOOD, KENTUCKY
CODE OF ORDINANCES
State legislation current through December, 2020
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing Corporation
525 Vine Street, Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio  45202
Tel: (800) 445-5588
Internet: www.amlegal.com
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
      
11.   CITY STANDARDS
CHAPTER 10:  RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
Section
   
10.01   Short titles
   
10.02   Definitions
   
10.03   Rules of construction
   
10.04   Computation of time
   
10.05   Majority may act for all; authorized agent
   
10.06   Writings and signatures
   
10.07   Severability
   
10.08   Revivor
   
10.09   Rights and liabilities accruing before repeal of ordinance
   
10.10   Construction of section references
   
10.11   Ordinances repealed
   
10.12   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.13   Ordinances saved
   
10.14   Amendments to code; amendatory language
   
10.15   Conflicting provisions
   
10.16   Reference to offices
   
10.17   Errors and omissions
   
10.18   Historical and statutory references
   
10.19   Application within territorial boundaries
   
10.20   Ordinance enforcement
 
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01  SHORT TITLES.
   (A)   All ordinances of a permanent and general nature of the city as
revised, codified, rearranged, renumbered and consolidated into component
codes, titles, chapters and sections shall be known and designated as the
“Bellewood Code”, for which designation “codified ordinances” or “code” may be
substituted. Title heads, chapter heads and section and division heads or
titles, and explanatory notes and cross-references, do not constitute any part
of the law as contained in the code.
(KRS 446.140)
   (B)   All references to codes, titles, chapters and sections are to those
components of the code unless otherwise specified. Any component code may be
referred to and cited by its name, such as the “traffic code”. Sections may be
referred to and cited by the designation “§” followed by the number, such as “§
10.01”. Headings and captions used in this code other than the title, chapter
and section numbers are employed for reference purposes only and shall not be
deemed a part of the text of any section.
§ 10.02  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this code, the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACTION. Includes all proceedings in any court of this state.
(KRS 446.010(1))
   AND. May be read OR, and OR may be read AND, if the sense requires it.
   ANIMAL. Includes every warm-blooded living creature, except a human being.
(KRS 446.010(2))
   AVIS. The automated vehicle information system established and maintained by
the Transportation Cabinet to collect titling and registration information on
vehicles and boats and information on holders of motor vehicle operator’s
licenses and personal identification cards.
(KRS 446.010(55))
   CITY,MUNICIPAL CORPORATION or MUNICIPALITY. When used in this code, shall
denote the City of Bellewood, irrespective of its population or legal
classification.
   COMMISSION. The Bellewood City Commission.
(KRS 83A.010(3))
   COMPANY. May extend and be applied to any corporation, company, person,
partnership, joint stock company or association.
(KRS 446.010(9))
   CORPORATION. May extend and be applied to any corporation, company,
partnership, joint stock company or association.
(KRS 446.010(10)
   COUNTY. Jefferson County, Kentucky.
   CRUELTY. As applied to animals, includes every act or omission whereby
unjustifiable physical pain, suffering or death is caused or permitted.
(KRS 446.010(12))
   DIRECTORS. When applied to corporations, includes managers or trustees.
(KRS 446.010(13))
   DOMESTIC. When applied to a corporation, partnership, business trust or
limited liability company, means all those incorporated or formed by authority
of this state.
(KRS 446.010(14))
   DOMESTIC ANIMAL. Any animal converted to domestic habitat.
(KRS 446.010(15))
   EXECUTIVE AUTHORITY. The Commission.
(KRS 83A.010(6), KRS 91A.010(4))
   FEDERAL. Refers to the United States.
(KRS 446.010(17))
   FOREIGN. When applied to a corporation, partnership, business trust or
limited liability company, includes all those incorporated or formed by
authority of any other state.
(KRS 446.010(18))
   KEEPER or PROPRIETOR. Includes all persons, whether acting by themselves or
as a servant, agent or employee.
   KRS. Kentucky Revised Statutes.
   LAND or REAL ESTATE. Includes lands, tenements and hereditaments and all
rights thereto and interest therein, other than a chattel interest.
(KRS 446.010(23))
   LEGISLATIVE BODY. The City Commission.
(KRS 91A.010(8))
   LEGISLATIVE BODY MEMBER. A City Commissioner.
(KRS 83A.010(8))
   LIVESTOCK. Cattle, sheep, swine, goats, horses, alpacas, llamas, buffaloes
or any other animals of the bovine, ovine, porcine, caprine, equine or camelid
species.
(KRS 446.010(25))
   MAY. The act referred to is permissive.
(KRS 446.010(26))
   MONTH. Calendar month.
(KRS 446.010(27))
   MUNICIPALITY. The City of Bellewood, Kentucky.
   OATH. Includes AFFIRMATION in all cases in which an affirmation may be
substituted for an OATH.
(KRS 446.010(28))
   PARTNERSHIP. Includes both general and limited PARTNERSHIPS.
(KRS 446.010(30))
   PEACE OFFICER. Includes sheriffs, constables, coroners, jailers,
metropolitan and urban- county government correctional officers, marshals,
police officers and other persons with similar authority to make arrests.
(KRS 446.010(31))
   PERSON. May extend and be applied to bodies-politic and corporate,
societies, communities, the public generally, individuals, partnerships, joint
stock companies and limited liability companies.
(KRS 446.010(33))
   PERSONAL PROPERTY. Includes all property, except real.
   PREMISES. As applied to property, includes land and buildings.
   PROPERTY. Includes real, personal, mixed estates and interests.
   PUBLIC AUTHORITY. Includes boards of education; the municipal, county, state
or federal government, its officers or an agency thereof; or any duly
authorized public official.
   PUBLIC PLACE. Includes any street, sidewalk, park, cemetery, school yard,
body of water or watercourse, public conveyance or any other place for the sale
of merchandise, public accommodation or amusement.
   REAL PROPERTY. Includes lands, tenements and hereditaments.
   REGULAR ELECTION. The election in even-numbered years at which members of
Congress are elected and the election in odd-numbered years at which state
officers are elected.
(KRS 446.010(37))
   SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory.
(KRS 446.010(39))
   SIDEWALK. The portion of the street between the curb line and the adjacent
property line intended for the use of pedestrians.
   STATE. The Commonwealth of Kentucky.
   STREET. Includes alleys, avenues, boulevards, lanes, roads, highways,
viaducts and all other public thoroughfares within the city.
   SUBCHAPTER. A division of a chapter, designated in this code by a heading in
the chapter analysis and a capitalized heading in the body of the chapter,
setting apart a group of sections related by the subject matter of the heading.
Not all chapters have SUBCHAPTERS.
   SWORN. Includes affirmed in all cases in which an affirmation may be
substituted for an oath.
(KRS 446.010(43))
   TENANT or OCCUPANT. As applied to premises, includes any person holding a
written or oral lease, or who actually occupies the whole or any part of the
premises, alone or with others.
   VACANCY IN OFFICE. Exists when there is an unexpired part of a term of
office without a lawful incumbent therein, when the person elected or appointed
to an office fails to qualify according to law, or when there has been no
election to fill the office at the time appointed by law; it applies whether
the vacancy is occasioned by death, resignation, removal from the state,
county, city or district, or otherwise.
(KRS 446.010(46))
   VIOLATE. Includes failure to comply with.
(KRS 446.010(47))
   YEAR. Calendar year.
(KRS 446.010(49))
§ 10.03  RULES OF CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   Singular includes plural. A word importing the singular number only
may extend and be applied to several persons or things, as well as to one
person or thing, and a word importing the plural number only may extend and be
applied to one person or thing as well as to several persons or things.
(KRS 446.020(1))
   (B)   Masculine includes feminine. A word importing the masculine gender
only may extend and be applied to females as well as males.
(KRS 446.020(2))
   (C)   Liberal construction. All sections of this code shall be liberally
construed with a view to promote their objects and carry out the intent of City
Commission.
(KRS 446.080(1))
   (D)   Retroactivity. No ordinance shall be construed to be retroactive,
unless expressly so declared.
(KRS 446.080(3))
   (E)   Technical terms. All words and phrases shall be construed according to
the common and approved usage of language, but technical words and phrases, and
others as may have acquired a peculiar and appropriate meaning in the law,
shall be construed according to that meaning.
(KRS 446.080(4))
§ 10.04  COMPUTATION OF TIME.
   (A)   In computing any period of time prescribed or allowed by order of
court, or by any applicable ordinance or regulation, the day of the act, event
or default after which the designated period of time begins to run is not to be
included. The last day of the period so computed is to be included, unless it
is a Saturday, a Sunday, a legal holiday or a day on which the public office in
which a document is required to be filed is actually and legally closed, in
which event the period runs until the end of the next day which is not one of
the days just mentioned. When the period of time prescribed or allowed is less
than seven days, intermediate Saturdays, Sundays and legal holidays shall be
excluded in the computation.
   (B)   When an ordinance, regulation or order of court requires an act to be
done either a certain time before an event or a certain time before the day on
which an event occurs, the day of the event shall be excluded in computing the
time. If the day thereby computed on which or by which the act is required to
be done falls on a Saturday, Sunday, legal holiday or a day on which the public
office in which the act is required to be completed is actually and legally
closed, the act may be done on the next day which is none of the days just
mentioned.
   (C)   If any proceeding is directed by law to take place, or any act is
directed to be done, on a particular day of a month and that day is Sunday, the
proceeding shall take place, or the act shall be done, on the next day that is
not a legal holiday.
(KRS 446.030)
   (D)   In all cases where the law requires any act to be done in a reasonable
time or reasonable notice to be given, REASONABLE TIME OR NOTICE shall mean the
time only as may be necessary for the prompt performance of the duty or
compliance with the notice.
§ 10.05  MAJORITY MAY ACT FOR ALL; AUTHORIZED AGENT.
   (A)   Words giving authority to three or more public officers or other
persons shall be construed as giving the authority to a majority of the
officers or other persons.
(KRS 446.050)
   (B)   When the law requires an act to be done which may by law as well be
done by an agent as by the principal, the requirement shall be construed to
include those acts when done by an authorized agent.
§ 10.06  WRITINGS AND SIGNATURES.
   (A)   When this code requires any writing to be signed by a party thereto,
it shall not be deemed to be signed unless the signature is subscribed at the
end or close of the writing.
   (B)   Every writing contemplated by this code shall be in the English
language.
(KRS 446.060)
§ 10.07  SEVERABILITY.
   It shall be considered that it is the intent of City Commission in enacting
any ordinance, that if any part of the ordinance be held unconstitutional the
remaining parts shall remain in force, unless the ordinance provides otherwise,
or unless the remaining parts are so essentially and inseparably connected with
and dependent upon the unconstitutional part that it is apparent that City
Commission would not have enacted the remaining parts without the
unconstitutional part; or unless the remaining parts, standing alone, are
incomplete and incapable of being executed in accordance with the intent of
City Commission.
(KRS 446.090)
§ 10.08  REVIVOR.
   (A)   A repealed ordinance without a delayed effective date is revived when
the ordinance that repealed it is repealed by another ordinance enacted at the
same meeting of City Commission.
   (B)   A repealed ordinance with a delayed effective date is revived by the
enactment of a repealer of the ordinance that repealed it at the same or any
subsequent meeting of City Commission as long as it takes effect prior to the
effective date of the original repealer.
   (C)   An amended ordinance without a delayed effective date remains
unchanged with respect to an amendment which is repealed at the same meeting of
City Commission which enacted the amendment.
   (D)   An amended ordinance with a delayed effective date remains unchanged
with respect to that amendment if the ordinance making the amendment is
repealed at the same or at a subsequent meeting of City Commission, as long as
the repealing ordinance takes effect prior to the effective date of the
original amendment.
   (E)   No other action of City Commission repealing a repealer or an
amendment shall have the effect of reviving the original language of the
repealer or amendment, as the case may be.
(KRS 446.100)
§ 10.09  RIGHTS AND LIABILITIES ACCRUING BEFORE REPEAL OF ORDINANCE.
   No new ordinance shall be construed to repeal a former ordinance as to any
offense committed against a former ordinance, nor as to any act done, or
penalty, forfeiture or punishment incurred, or any right accrued or claim
arising under the former ordinance, or in any way whatever to affect any
offense or act so committed or done, or any penalty, forfeiture or punishment
so incurred, or any right accrued or claim arising before the new ordinance
takes effect, except that the proceedings thereafter had shall conform, so far
as practicable, to the laws in force at the time of the proceedings. If any
penalty, forfeiture or punishment is mitigated by any provision of the new
ordinance, the provision may, by the consent of the party affected, be applied
to any judgment pronounced after the new ordinance takes effect.
(KRS 446.110)
§ 10.10  CONSTRUCTION OF SECTION REFERENCES.
   (A)   Wherever in a penalty section reference is made to a violation of a
section or an inclusive group of sections, the reference shall be construed to
mean a violation of any provision of the section or sections included in the
reference.
   (B)   References in the code to action taken or authorized under designated
sections of the code include, in every case, action taken or authorized under
the applicable legislative provision which is superseded by this code.
   (C)   Whenever in one section reference is made to another section hereof,
the reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified or renumbered, unless the subject matter be
changed or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
§ 10.11  ORDINANCES REPEALED.
   This code, from and after its effective date, shall contain all of the
provisions of a general nature pertaining to the subjects herein enumerated and
embraced. All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated by this code
shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date of this code of
ordinances.
§ 10.12  ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature, and all other ordinances
pertaining to subjects not enumerated and embraced in this code of ordinances,
shall remain in full force and effect unless herein repealed expressly or by
necessary implication.
§ 10.13  ORDINANCES SAVED.
   Whenever an ordinance, by its nature, either authorizes or enables the City
Commission, or a certain city officer or employee, to make additional
ordinances or regulations for the purpose of carrying out the intent of the
ordinance, all ordinances and regulations of a similar nature serving the
purpose effected prior to the codification and not inconsistent thereto shall
remain in effect and are saved.
§ 10.14  AMENDMENTS TO CODE; AMENDATORY LANGUAGE.
   (A)   Any chapter, section or division amended or added to this code by
ordinances passed subsequent to this code may be numbered in accordance with
the numbering system of this code and printed for inclusion herein. Any
chapter, section or division repealed by subsequent ordinances may be excluded
from this code by omission from reprinted pages. Subsequent ordinances as
printed or omitted shall be prima facie evidence of the subsequent ordinances
until City Commission shall adopt a new code of ordinances.
   (B)   The method of amendment set forth by the city should be used by the
city to amend, add or repeal a chapter, section or division of this code of
ordinances.
§ 10.15  CONFLICTING PROVISIONS.
   If the provisions of different codes, chapters or sections of the codified
ordinances conflict with or contravene each other, the provisions bearing the
latest passage date shall prevail. If the conflicting provisions bear the same
passage date, the conflict shall be so construed as to be consistent with the
meaning or legal effect of the questions of the subject matter taken as a
whole.
§ 10.16  REFERENCE TO OFFICES.
   Reference to a public office or officer shall be deemed to apply to any
office, officer or employee of the city exercising the powers, duties or
functions contemplated in the provision, irrespective of any transfer of
functions or change in the official title of the functionary.
§ 10.17  ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error be discovered, consisting of the misspelling of any word
or words, the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention
of the provisions affected, the use of a word or words to which no meaning can
be attached, or the use of a word or words when another word or words was
clearly intended to express the intention, the spelling shall be corrected, and
the word or words supplied, omitted or substituted as will conform with the
manifest intention, and the provision shall have the same effect as though the
correct words were contained in the text as originally published. No alteration
shall be made or permitted if any question exists regarding the nature or
extent of the error.
§ 10.18  HISTORICAL AND STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   As histories for the code sections, the specific number and passage
date of the original ordinance, and the amending ordinances, if any, are listed
following the text of the code section. Example: (Ord. 10, passed 5-13-1960;
Ord. 15, passed 1-1-1970; Ord. 20, passed 1-1-1980; Ord. 25, passed 1-1-1985)
   (B)   If a KRS cite is included in the history, this indicates that the text
of the section reads either verbatim or substantially the same as the statute.
Example: (KRS 83A.090)
   (C)   If a KRS cite is set forth as a “statutory reference” following the
text of the section, this indicates that the reader should refer to that
statute for further information. Example:
      § 39.01  PUBLIC RECORDS AVAILABLE.
   This municipality shall make available to any person for inspection or
copying all public records, unless otherwise exempted by state law.
      Statutory reference:
         Inspection of public records, see KRS 61.870 et seq.
§ 10.19  APPLICATION WITHIN TERRITORIAL BOUNDARIES.
   All provisions of these codified ordinances are limited in application to
the territorial boundaries of the city.
(Prior Code, § 1.2.5.1.3)
§ 10.20  ORDINANCE ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Enforcement, as used herein, refers to legal action taken to achieve a
remedy in those instances where violation or non-compliance with an ordinance
is not corrected following notice of same or to impose a penalty where such
response is appropriate for the violation or non-compliance. Legal action is
required as such forced remedies or penalties must rely on the power of the
courts for execution.
   (B)   As provided for by Kentucky Revised Statutes, any aggrieved party may
undertake enforcement of the provisions of a municipal ordinance through legal
action filed in the county’s District Court. In this instance, the costs of and
time required for such action must be borne by the filing party.
(Prior Code, § 1.2.5.4)
§ 10.99  GENERAL PENALTY.
   Where an act or omission is prohibited or declared unlawful in this code of
ordinances, and no penalty is otherwise provided, the offense shall be deemed a
violation, and the offender shall be fined not more than $250 for each offense.
Statutory references:
   Enforcement of ordinances, see KRS 83A.065
   Maximum fine for violations, see KRS 534.040(2)(c)
CHAPTER 11:  CITY STANDARDS
Section
   
11.01   Boundaries; incorporation areas
§ 11.01  BOUNDARIES; INCORPORATION AREAS.
   The city, known as “Bellewood, Kentucky”, be and the same hereby is
established as a municipal corporation of the Home Rule, within the following
described boundaries shown on the map filed with the petition filed herein, to
wit: Bellewood annexes into the city the following described property, the same
being adjacent to the city: being located in the County of Jefferson, State of
Kentucky, and more specifically described as follows: beginning at a point at
the southeast corner or Ormond Road and St. Matthews Avenue as shown on plan of
Ridgeway Corner, Section 2, of record in Plat and Subdivision Book 10, page 98,
in the office of the Clerk of Jefferson County, Kentucky; running thence South
52 degrees 51 minutes west along the southeast line of Ormond Road, as shown on
said plat, 160 feet to a point in the southeast line of Ormond Road; running
thence south 34 degrees 11 minutes east 10.45 feet to a point; thence north 52
degrees southwest line of St. Matthews Avenue as shown on the plat aforesaid;
thence running in a northwesterly direction along the southeasterly line of St.
Matthews Avenue, 10.67 feet to the beginning; and being the same property
conveyed to Barbara H. Brown, one of the parties of the first part herein, by
deed dated 5-29-1942, of record in Deed Book 1827, page 326, in the office of
the Clerk aforesaid. The parties of the first part further covenant that they
are lawfully seized of the estate hereby conveyed; that they have full right
and power to convey same; and that said estate is free and clear of all liens
and encumbrances; provided, however, there is excepted from the foregoing
warranty and covenants of title and this conveyance is made subject to all
existing restrictions, conditions and easements of record against said estate.
(Prior Code, § 1.1.1)
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   LEGISLATIVE BODY
      
31.   OFFICIALS AND EMPLOYEES
      
32.   ETHICS CODE
      
33.   FINANCE AND REVENUE; TAXES
CHAPTER 30:  LEGISLATIVE BODY
Section
General Provisions
   
30.01   Meetings
   
30.02   Open meetings and records
   
30.03   Form of government
   
30.04   Creation and supervision of departments
Permanent Records
   
30.15   City Clerk responsible for maintenance, safe-keeping
   
30.16   Ordinance numbering
   
30.17   Every action made permanent record
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 30.01  MEETINGS.
   (A)   The legislative body shall hold regular monthly meetings at 6:30 p.m.
on the second Tuesday of each month at City of St. Matthews Library.
   (B)   If the regular meeting date falls on a legal holiday, as defined by
KRS 2.110, the regular meeting shall be on the succeeding day that is not a
legal holiday.
   (C)   Special meetings may be called as provided by law.
(Prior Code, § 1.2.1)
§ 30.02  OPEN MEETINGS AND RECORDS.
   All meetings of a quorum of the city legislative body shall be open to the
public, and all public records of the city shall be available for inspection by
any person in accordance with KRS 61.805 to 61.884.
(Prior Code, § 1.2.2)
§ 30.03  FORM OF GOVERNMENT.
   (A)   The city shall be governed under the Commission form of government as
provided by KRS Ch. 83A.
   (B)   The city shall be governed by an elective official who shall be called
“Mayor” and be elected by legislative body members who shall be called City
Commissioners, and which together shall be known as the “City Commission”, and
by such other officers and employees as may be provided for by statute of city
ordinance.
   (C)   All legislative, executive and administrative authority of the city
shall be vested in and exercised by the City Commission. The Commission shall
enforce the commission plan, ordinances and orders of the city and all
applicable statutes. The Commission shall maintain liaison with related units
of local government respecting inter-local contraction and joint activities.
The Commission shall supervise all departments of city government and the
conduct of all city officers and employees under its jurisdiction and may
require each department to make such reports as it finds necessary.
   (D)   The Mayor shall preside at all meetings of the commission and may vote
in all proceedings. All bonds, notes, contracts and written obligations of the
city authorized by ordinance or resolution shall be executed by the Mayor on
behalf of the city.
   (E)   Regular meetings of the City Commission shall be held at least once a
month at such times and places are as fixed by ordinances. Special meetings may
be called by the Mayor or a majority of the City Commissioners. In the call,
the Mayor or City Commissioner shall designate the purpose, time and place of
the special meeting with sufficient notice for the attendance of Commission
members and for compliance with the KRS Ch. 61. At a special meeting, no
business maybe considered other than that set forth in a designation of
purpose.
   (F)   (1)   The Commission shall by ordinance establish all appointive
offices and the duties and responsibilities of those offices and codes, rules
and regulations for the public health, safety and welfare.
      (2)   The Commission shall, by ordinance, provide sufficient revenues to
operate city government and shall appropriate such funds in a budget which
shall provide for the orderly management of city resources.
      (3)   The Commission shall promulgate procedures to ensure orderly
administration of the functions of city government in compliance with statute,
ordinance or order.
(Prior Code, § 1.2.3)
§ 30.04  CREATION AND SUPERVISION OF DEPARTMENTS.
   The following departments are hereby created:
   (A)   Ordinance Enforcement and Financial Administration;
   (B)   Engineering/Roads and Grounds;
   (C)   Beautification;
   (D)   Security and Safety; and
   (E)   Communications.
(Prior Code, § 1.2.4)
PERMANENT RECORDS
§ 30.15  CITY CLERK RESPONSIBLE FOR MAINTENANCE, SAFE-KEEPING.
   The City Clerk is responsible for maintaining and safekeeping the permanent
records of the city, including ordinances and municipal orders, and shall sign
the official records of each meeting.
(Prior Code, § 1.2.5.6.1)
§ 30.16  ORDINANCE NUMBERING.
   (A)   All ordinances adopted by the city shall be numbered in accordance
with the state’s Ordinance Code Topical Numbering System.
   (B)   The city budget, appropriations of money and tax levies shall be
maintained and indexed by fiscal year.
   (C)   All ordinances shall be kept in an ordinance book in the order
adopted.
   (D)   The text of each general ordinance shall be kept in a loose-leaf
binder with tabbed dividers arranged and numbered according to the state’s
Ordinance Code Topical Numbering System with an alphabetical index.
   (E)   Each month, every ordinance or amendment adopted during the month
shall be assigned a KOC number, listed by topic and date of passage and
publication and placed in the appropriate place in the binder.
   (F)   Once a year, all additions and amendments shall be incorporated in the
text of the code and in the table of contents.
   (G)   At least once every five years, the text of the code shall be examined
for consistency with state law, and with other provisions and revised to
eliminate redundant, obsolete, inconsistent and invalid provisions.
(Prior Code, § 1.2.5.6.2)
§ 30.17  EVERY ACTION MADE PERMANENT RECORD.
   Every action of the legislative body shall be made part of the permanent
records of the city, and on passage of an ordinance, the vote of each member of
the city legislative body shall be entered into the official record of the
meeting.
(Prior Code, § 1.2.5.6.3)
CHAPTER 31:  OFFICIALS AND EMPLOYEES
Section
General Provisions
   
31.01   Bonds, combinations and oaths
   
31.02   Compensation of elected officials
Specific Offices
   
31.15   Mayor
   
31.16   City Clerk
   
31.17   City Treasurer
   
31.18   Tax Collector
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 31.01  BONDS, COMBINATIONS AND OATHS.
   (A)   Bonds of Clerk and Treasurer.
      (1)   The City Clerk and Treasurer shall each execute bond before
entering upon the duties of their respective offices, conditioned for the
faithful performance of their duties, including the duties of all offices of
which he or she is ex officio incumbent. The amount and sufficiency of such
bond shall be approved by the City Commission.
      (2)   The bond of the Treasurer shall be filed with the City Clerk and
the bond of the Clerk shall be filed with the Mayor.
   (B)   Clerk and Treasurer combined.
      (1)   The City Commission may combine the offices of City Clerk and
Treasurer to be known as “City Clerk/Treasurer” with all the duties of each.
      (2)   The salary of the City Clerk/Treasurer shall be specified by the
Commission at any time that these offices are combined.
   (C)   Oath of City Clerk and of City Treasurer. Before entering upon the
duties of his or her office, the City Clerk and the City Treasurer shall each
take the oath prescribed by Kentucky Constitution § 228 for city officials.
(Prior Code, § 1.3.4)
§ 31.02  COMPENSATION OF ELECTED OFFICIALS.
   (A)   The compensation of the Mayor is hereby fixed at $500 per month.
   (B)   The compensation of the City Clerk/Treasurer is hereby fixed at $75
per month.
   (C)   The compensation of each City Commissioner is hereby fixed at $75 per
month.
   (D)   Payments shall be paid the last day of the month quarterly in March,
June, September and December of the calendar year.
   (E)   The Mayor, City Clerk and Commissioners receiving compensation shall
be responsible for all federal, state and local income taxes thereon and
receive a 1099 tax form annually.
(Prior Code, § 1.3.6)
SPECIFIC OFFICES
§ 31.15  MAYOR.
   (A)   The Mayor shall preside at all meetings of the Commission and may vote
in all proceedings.
   (B)   An appointment of all non-elected city officials shall require
nomination by a Commission member and approval (majority vote) by the City
Commission.
(Prior Code, § 1.3.1)
§ 31.16  CITY CLERK.
   (A)   There is hereby created a non-elective city office to be known as the
“City Clerk”.
   (B)   The City Clerk shall be appointed by the Commission.
   (C)   The City Clerk shall be at least 21 years of age and of good moral
character.
   (D)   The duties and responsibilities of the City Clerk shall include, but
not be limited to, the following:
      (1)   Maintenance and safekeeping of the records of the city; and
      (2)   Performance of all duties and responsibilities required by a city
clerk by statute or ordinance.
   (E)   The salary of the City Clerk is to be determined by the Commission.
(Prior Code, § 1.3.2)
§ 31.17  CITY TREASURER.
   (A)   The City Treasurer shall receive and safely keep all city funds coming
into his or her hands. He or she shall pay out city funds and debts of the
city.
   (B)   The Treasurer shall make monthly reports to the City Commission
showing the state of the finances of the city and the amounts received and
spent during the month.
   (C)   The City Treasurer shall be appointed by the Commission.
   (D)   The salary of the City Treasurer is established at an amount as may be
from time to time fixed by order of the Commission.
(Prior Code, § 1.3.3)
§ 31.18  TAX COLLECTOR.
   (A)   The duties of the City Tax Collector can be performed by the City
Clerk or City Treasurer.
   (B)   It shall be the duty of the City Tax Collector to proceed as
authorized by law to collect all taxes and special assessments that may be due
or become due the city and to keep such records pertaining to such collections
as may be required by statutes, ordinance or direction of the City Commission.
   (C)   The City Tax Collector shall make such reports regarding delinquent
taxes as are required by statute or by the City Commission. The City Tax
Collector shall make a monthly report to the Commission showing all moneys that
have been received and the source thereof. Monthly reports shall show totals
for all moneys received in the current fiscal year and totals for all past due
moneys summarized by year(s). The Tax Collector may furnish the required report
to the City Treasurer for inclusion in the Treasurer’s report in lieu of a
separate report. All moneys when received shall be deposited by the City
Treasurer, or as directed by the City Treasurer.
   (D)   The City Commission may combine the offices of City Treasurer and City
Tax Collector to be known as City Treasurer/Tax Collector with all the duties
of each office.
   (E)   The salary of the City Treasurer/Tax Collector shall be specified by
the Commission at any time that these offices are combined.
(Prior Code, § 1.3.5)
CHAPTER 32:  ETHICS CODE
Section
   
32.01   Definitions
   
32.02   Standards of conduct
   
32.03   Financial disclosure
   
32.04   Nepotism
   
32.05   Ethics Commission
   
32.06   Filing an investigation complaint
   
32.07   Notice of hearing
   
32.08   Hearing procedure
   
32.09   Appeals
   
32.10   Limitation of action
 
   
32.99   Penalty
§ 32.01  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUSINESS ASSOCIATE. Includes the following: 
      (1)   A private employer;
      (2)   A general or limited partnership; or a general or limited partner
within the partnership;
      (3)   A corporation that is family owned or in which all shares of stock
are closely held, and the shareholders, owners and officers of such a
corporation; and
      (4)   A corporation, business association or any other business entity in
which the city government officer or employee serves as a compensated agent or
representative.
   BUSINESS CORPORATION. Any corporation, partnership, sole proprietor, firm,
enterprise, franchise, association, organization, self-employed individual,
holding company, joint stock company, receivership, trust, professional service
corporation or any legal entity through which business is conducted for profit.
   CANDIDATE. Any individual who seeks nomination or election to a city
municipal office. An individual is a candidate when the individual files a
notification and declaration for a nomination for office with the County Clerk
or the Secretary of State.
   CITY GOVERNMENT AGENCY. Any board, commission, authority, non-stock
corporation or other entity formed by the city government or a combination of
local governments.
   CITY GOVERNMENT EMPLOYEE. Any person, whether compensated or not, whether
full-time or part-time, employed by or servicing the city government or city
government agency who is not a city government officer, but shall not mean any
employees of a school district or school board.
   CITY GOVERNMENT OFFICER. Any person, whether compensated or not, whether
full time or part time, who is elected to any city government office; or any
person who serves as a member of the governing body of any city government
agency or special taxing or non-taxing district, but shall not mean any officer
of a school district or school board.
   MEMBER OF IMMEDIATE FAMILY. The spouse, an unemancipated child residing in
an individual’s household or a person claimed by the individual or individual’s
spouse as dependent for tax purposes.
   RULE OF NECESSITY. The city government, agency or district may make or enter
into a contract in which an officer or employee or members of his or her
immediate family or a business associate has an economic interest if:
      (1)   The nature of the transaction and the nature of the interest is
publicly disclosed on the record prior to the time it is engaged in; and
      (2)   A specific finding is made by the city government, agency or
district and entered on the official record of the proceedings of the governing
body that, notwithstanding the conflict, it is in the best interest of local
government because of limited supply, price or documented emergency.
§ 32.02  STANDARDS OF CONDUCT.
   (A)   No city government officer or employee or member of his or her
immediate family shall have an interest in a business organization or engage in
any business, transaction or professional activity, which is in substantial
conflict with the proper discharge of his or her duties in the public interest.
   (B)   No city government officer or employee shall use or attempt to use his
or her position to secure unwarranted privileges or advantages for himself or
herself or others.
Penalty, see §
32.99
§ 32.03  FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE.
   (A)   Any officer or employee, or any member of his or her immediate family,
of the city government who shall have any private financial interest, directly
or indirectly, in any contract or matter pending before or within any
department or agency of the city government shall disclose such private
interest to the City Commission. Any such disclosure shall require the
completion of a disclosure statement revealing in detail the nature of the
direct or indirect financial interest.
   (B)   Financial disclosure statement:
      (1)   The following individuals shall be required to file an annual
financial disclosure statement:
         (a)   Elected officers; and
         (b)   Candidates for elective office.
      (2)   The financial disclosure statement shall include the following
information:
         (a)   Name of filer;
         (b)   Current business address, business telephone number and home
address of filer;
         (c)   Title of filer’s public office or office sought;
         (d)   Occupations of filer and spouse;
         (e)   Positions held by the filer and any members of the filer’s
immediate family in any business organization or non-profit entity from which
the filer or any member of the filer’s immediate family received compensation
in excess of $5,000 during the preceding calendar year, and the name, address
and telephone number of the business organization or non-profit entity;
         (f)   Name and address of each source of income of filer and spouse
from within the commonwealth which exceeded $5,000 during the preceding year;
         (g)   Name and address of each business organization located within
the Commonwealth in which the filer or any member of the filer’s immediate
family had an interest of $10,000 at the fair market value; and
         (h)   Location of all commercial property within the city, in which
the filer or any member of the filer’s immediate family had an interest of
$10,000 or more during the past year.
      (3)   Each statement shall be signed and dated by the individual filing
the statement of financial interest. The financial disclosure statements
required by this chapter shall be filed with the City Commission.
Penalty, see §
32.99
§ 32.04  NEPOTISM.
   No city government officer or city government employee shall act in his or
her official capacity to hire or cause to be hired any member of his or her
immediate family at an hourly pay rate or with benefits in excess of any other
employee with similar job duties, responsibilities and qualification
requirements.
Penalty, see §
32.99
§ 32.05  ETHICS COMMISSION.
   (A)   An Ethics Commission is created which shall have the power to enforce
all provisions of the Code of Ethics adopted in this chapter.
   (B)   The Commission shall be composed of three members appointed by the
Mayor with the approval of the City Commission. Members must be at least 21
years of age.
   (C)   Decisions of the City Commission regarding violations may be appealed
to the County Circuit Court.
   (D)   The City Commission shall receive, hear and investigate complaints
concerning violations of this Code of Ethics. Any instance in which the
Commission finds that violation of the Code of Ethics exists, it may impose the
appropriate penalty. In hearing and investigating complaints concerning
violations of this Code of Ethics, the Commission shall have the power to
subpoena witnesses, administer oaths, take testimony and require other
production of evidence.
§ 32.06  FILING AN INVESTIGATION COMPLAINT.
   (A)   All complaints alleging any violation of the provisions of this
chapter shall be submitted to the Ethics Commission. All complaints shall be in
writing, signed by the complainant, and shall meet any other requirements
established by the Commission. The Commission shall, within a reasonable time,
acknowledge receipt of a complaint to the complainant and forward a copy of the
complaint to any officer or employee who is the subject of the complaint.
   (B)   Within 30 days of the receipt of the complaint, the Commission shall
conduct a preliminary inquiry. The Commission shall afford a person who is the
subject of the complaint an opportunity to respond. The person shall have the
right to be represented by counsel, to appear and be heard under oath, and to
offer evidence in response to the allegations.
   (C)   The Commission shall make a determination based on its preliminary
inquiry whether the complaint is within its jurisdiction and, if so, whether
there is reasonable cause to believe that the officer or employee has violated
this chapter. If the Commission finds that the complaint is outside its
jurisdiction, frivolous or without factual basis, the Commission shall
immediately terminate the inquiry, reduce the conclusion to writing, and
transmit a copy of its decision to the complainant and to all officers or
employees against whom the complaint was filed.
   (D)   If the Commission concludes, based upon its preliminary inquiry, that
the complaint is within its jurisdiction and there is reasonable cause to
believe that a violation occurred, the Commission shall notify the officer or
employee who is the subject of this complaint and shall initiate a hearing to
determine whether there has been a violation.
§ 32.07  NOTICE OF HEARING.
   If the Commission determines that a hearing regarding allegations contained
in the complaint is necessary, the Commission shall issue an order, and mail it
to the alleged violator within a reasonable time, setting the matter for a
hearing within 30 days of the date the order is issued, unless the alleged
violator petitions the Commission for a later date.
§ 32.08  HEARING PROCEDURE.
   (A)   The State Rules of Civil Procedure and the State Rules of Evidence
shall not apply to hearings conducted by the Commission; however, the hearing
shall be conducted in accordance with this section and in accordance with any
additional rules and regulations adopted by the Commission so as to afford all
parties the full range of due process rights required by the nature of the
proceedings.
   (B)   Prior to the commencement of the hearing, the alleged violator, or his
or her representative, shall have a reasonable opportunity to examine all
documents and records prepared by the Commission in connection with the matters
to be heard. The Commission shall inform the alleged violator, or his or her
representative, of any exculpatory evidence in its possession.
   (C)   All testimony in a Commission hearing shall be taken under oath,
administered by the presiding officer. All parties shall have the right to call
and examine witnesses, to introduce exhibits, to cross examine witnesses, to
submit evidence, and to be represented by counsel. All witnesses shall have the
right to be represented by counsel.
   (D)   Any person whose name is mentioned during the hearing and who may be
adversely affected thereby may appear personally before the Commission, with or
without counsel, to give a statement regarding the adverse mention, or may file
a written statement regarding the adverse mention for incorporation into the
record of the proceeding.
   (E)   The Commission may, upon its own motion or that of any party, grant a
continuance of a hearing for the receipt of taking of further evidence.
However, the Commission shall make all efforts to complete the hearing and
taking of the evidence at the earliest possible time so as to not unduly burden
the alleged violator or any other interested party.
   (F)   After conclusion of the hearing, the Commission shall, as soon as
practicable, begin deliberations for purpose of reviewing the evidence in
making a determination of whether a violation of this chapter has been proven.
Within 30 days after the conclusion of the hearing, the Commission shall issue
a written report of its findings and conclusions.
   (G)   If the Commission concludes in its report that no violation has
occurred, it shall immediately send written notice of this determination to the
officer or employee who was the subject of the complaint, to the party who
filed the complaint, to the Mayor, and to the City Commission or the governing
board of the appropriate city agency.
   (H)   If the Commission concludes in its report that, based upon the
evidence, there is clear and convincing proof of a violation, the Commission
may do one or more of the following:
      (1)   Issue an order requiring the violator to cease and desist the
violation;
      (2)   In writing, publicly reprimand the violator for the violations and
provide a copy of the reprimand to the Mayor, City Commission and the governing
board of the appropriate city agency;
      (3)   In writing, recommend to the Mayor and City Commission that the
violator be sanctioned as recommended by the Commission, which may include
discipline, dismissal or removal from office;
      (4)   Issue an order requiring the violator to pay, within a specified
period of time, a civil penalty, as set forth in this chapter; and/or
      (5)   Refer evidence of criminal violation of this chapter or state law
to the County Attorney or Commonwealth’s Attorney of the jurisdiction for
prosecution.
Penalty, see §
32.99
§ 32.09  APPEALS.
   Any person who is found guilty of a violation may appeal the finding to the
Circuit Court within 30 days after the date of the final action of the Ethics
Commission by filing a petition with the court against the Commission.
§ 32.10  LIMITATION OF ACTION.
   Except when the period of limitation is otherwise established by state law,
an action for a violation of this chapter must be brought within one year after
the violation is discovered.
§ 32.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any violation of §
32.02 shall constitute a Class A misdemeanor, and upon conviction, the court
may void any contract entered into in violation thereof. Additionally, such a
violation shall be grounds for removal from office or from employment with the
city in accordance with any applicable provisions of state law and ordinances,
rules or regulations of the city, or other remedies as set forth in §
32.08(H)(1) through (H)(5), as determined by the Commission.
   (B)   Any person who fails to or refuses to file the financial disclosure
statement under §
32.03, or who fails or refuses to remedy a deficiency in the filing of a
financial disclosure statement under §
32.03 within the time period required, shall be guilty of a civil offense and
shall be subject to a civil fine imposed by the Commission in an amount not to
exceed $25 per day, up to a maximum total civil fine of $500. Any civil fine
imposed by the Commission under this section may be recovered by the city in a
civil action in the nature of debt if the offender fails or refuses to pay the
penalty within the prescribed period of time.
   (C)   Any person who intentionally files a financial disclosure statement
under §
32.03 which he or she knows to contain false information or intentionally omits
required information shall be guilty of a Class A misdemeanor or other remedies
as set forth in §
32.08(H)(1) through (H)(5), as determined by the Commission.
   (D)   Any person who knowingly files with the Commission a false complaint
alleging a violation of this chapter shall be guilty of a Class A misdemeanor
or other remedies as set forth in §
32.08(H)(1) through (H)(5), as determined by the Commission.
   (E)   Except when another penalty is specifically set forth in this chapter,
any officer or employee of the city or one of its agencies who is found by the
Commission to have violated any provisions of this chapter shall be deemed
guilty of a civil offense and may be subject to a civil fine imposed by the
Commission not to exceed $1,000 which may be recovered by the city in a civil
action in the nature of debt if the offender fails to pay the penalty in a
prescribed period of time.
   (F)   In addition to all other penalties which may be imposed under this
chapter, any officer or employee of the city or one of its agencies who is
found by the Commission to have violated any provision of this chapter shall
forfeit to the city an amount equal to the economic benefit or gain which the
officer or employee is determined by the Commission to have realized as the
result of the violation. The amount of any forfeiture that may be recovered by
the city is a civil action in the nature of debt, if the offender fails to pay
the amount of the forfeiture within a prescribed period of time.
   (G)   In addition to all other penalties which may be imposed in this
chapter any officer or employee of the city or one of its agencies who is found
by the Commission to have violated any provisions of this chapter shall be
subject to removal, suspension, demotion or other disciplinary action as
determined by the Mayor.
CHAPTER 33:  FINANCE AND REVENUE; TAXES
Section
   
33.01   City contracts
   
33.02   Tax assessments
§ 33.01  CITY CONTRACTS.
   (A)   Every contract greater than $500 entered into by the city shall be
authorized and approved by the Commission and signed by the Mayor and/or the
authorized Commissioner in charge of that specific service which is the subject
matter of the contract.
(Prior Code, § 2.1)
   (B)   No contract shall be entered or purchase made, which is inconsistent
with the annual budget and any amendments thereto, without the approval of the
City Commission.
(Prior Code, § 2.2)
§ 33.02  TAX ASSESSMENTS.
   There shall be an annual ordinance to adopt the county ad valorem property
tax assessment for the city and to levy an ad valorem tax thereon for the
general operation of the city. Current assessment date is January 1, for the
fiscal year July 1 to June 30. (Taxes are billed the first business day of
January of the assessment year, and payable with a 40% discount if received by
the end of the following February; face value is due up to March 31. If paid
any time in April, a 15% penalty applies; 4% interest per month thereafter.)
Note: tax bills are mailed to the owner of record (or mortgage company) as of
January 1 of the assessment year.
(Prior Code, § 19.1)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
[Reserved]
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   TRAFFIC AND PARKING REGULATIONS
      
71.   RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
CHAPTER 70:  TRAFFIC AND PARKING REGULATIONS
Section
Operation Requirements
   
70.01   Commercial vehicles
   
70.02   Speed limits; damage to roads
Parking Rules
   
70.15   Prohibited parking
   
70.16   Removal of vehicles and obstructions
 
   
70.99   Penalty
OPERATION REQUIREMENTS
§ 70.01  COMMERCIAL VEHICLES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for commercial trucks and buses of any capacity
to travel over the public roadways of the city, except when making deliveries
and/or conducting business for the residents of the city; provided, however,
that, the ordinance shall in no way affect the travel over the public roadways
of the city of trucks owned/operated by city residents and used as their
primary transportation, or school buses, church or community buses when they
are used for the convenience of the residents of the city.
(Prior Code, § 3.1)
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any commercial vehicle to park on streets
overnight or for extended periods of times with the exception of commercial
moving vans or public utility companies such as LG&E, MSD, Louisville Water and
the like.
(Prior Code, § 3.2)
   (C)   Commercial trucks other than personal/private pickup trucks, passenger
vans and sports utility vehicles (SUVs) owned by residents of the city must be
parked in private driveways so as to allow access for emergency vehicles on
public roadways.
(Prior Code, § 3.3)
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.02  SPEED LIMITS; DAMAGE TO ROADS.
   (A)   The speed limit within the city limits shall be 25 mph unless posted
otherwise.
(Prior Code, § 18.1)
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a motor vehicle which
causes damage or injury to the surface, structure and/or foundations of any
public roadways of the city.
(Prior Code, § 18.2)
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person to allow the spillage of gasoline
or any other flammable, toxic or injurious substance to remain on the public
roadway within the city.
(Prior Code, § 18.3)
Penalty, see §
70.99
PARKING RULES
§ 70.15  PROHIBITED PARKING.
   (A)   (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person to park any vehicle in the
front yard, or in any portion of the grass, or in the area between the street
and sidewalk, including the easement/right-of-way, other than in the driveway.
      (2)   An exception exists for residences with easement parking pads,
which were constructed prior to the effective date of this subchapter and in
compliance with this code.
(Prior Code, § 13.1)
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to park any vehicle, or object in such a manner
as to obstruct any sidewalk, street or public way of the city, or to otherwise
obstruct any public or private driveway thereof.
(Prior Code, § 13.2)
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for anyone to park, stop or allow to stand a
vehicle in a designated fire lane.
(Prior Code, § 13.3)
   (D)   It shall be unlawful for anyone to park in a “no parking here to
corner” designated area at any time and any person, firm or corporation so
doing shall be subject to penalty, in addition to provisions concerning removal
of vehicles and obstructions, as contained herein.
(Prior Code, § 13.4)
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.16  REMOVAL OF VEHICLES AND OBSTRUCTIONS.
   In addition, the violation of §
70.15(C) and (D) of this chapter may result in such vehicle or object being
towed or otherwise removed by the city, from the place of prohibited parking.
The operator/owner or person placing such vehicle of object shall be
responsible for all costs and expenses, including reasonable attorneys’ fees,
incurred as a result of the necessity of moving said improperly parked vehicle
or object.
(Prior Code, § 13.5)
§ 70.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   (1)   (a)   The violation of §
70.01(A) of this chapter shall constitute a violation and be punishable by a
fine in the amount of $50 per offense.
(Prior Code, § 3.1)
         (b)   The violation of §
70.01(B) of this chapter shall constitute a violation and be punishable by a
fine in the amount of $50 per offense.
(Prior Code, § 3.2)
         (c)   The violation of §
70.01(C) of this chapter shall constitute a violation and be punishable by a
fine in the amount of $50 per offense.
(Prior Code, § 3.3)
      (2)   All fines shall be paid within ten days of the issuance of the
citation or a late fee of $15 per day shall be applied. If the violation is not
resolved and all penalties are not paid within 30 days of the issuance of the
citation, a lien may be placed against the property.
(Prior Code, § 3.4)
   (C)   (1)   (a)   The penalty for failure to observe the speed limit, as per
§
70.02(A) of this chapter shall be consistent with the penalties contained in
KRS Ch. 18a (and other relevant sections).
(Prior Code, § 18.1)
         (b)   The violation of §
70.02(B) of this chapter shall constitute a violation which shall be punishable
by a fine of $250.
(Prior Code, § 18.2)
         (c)   The violation of §
70.02(C) of this chapter shall constitute a violation which shall be punishable
by a fine of $250.
(Prior Code, § 18.3)
      (2)   All fines shall be paid within ten days of the issuance of the
citation or a late fee of $15 per day shall be applied. If the violation is not
resolved and all penalties are not paid within 30 days of the issuance of the
citation, a lien may be placed against the property.
(Prior Code, § 18.4)
   (D)   (1)   (a)   The violation of §
70.15(A) of this chapter shall constitute a violation and be punishable by a
fine in the amount of $50 per day until corrected.
(Prior Code, § 13.1)
         (b)   The violation of §
70.15(B) of this chapter shall constitute a violation and be punishable by a
fine in the amount of $50 per day until corrected.
(Prior Code, § 13.2)
         (c)   The violation of §
70.15(C) of this chapter shall constitute a violation and be punishable by a
fine in the amount of $250 per offense.
(Prior Code, § 13.3)
         (d)   The violation of §
70.15(D) of this chapter shall constitute a violation and be punishable by a
fine in the amount of not less than $50 or more than $250 per offense.
(Prior Code, § 13.4)
      (2)   All fines shall be paid within ten days of the issuance of the
citation or a late fee of $15 per day shall be applied. If the violation is not
resolved and all penalties are not paid within 30 days of the issuance of the
citation, a lien may be placed against the property.
(Prior Code, § 13.6)
CHAPTER 71:  RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
Section
   
71.01   Prohibited keeping and storing
   
71.02   Exception
   
71.03   Non-resident parking
 
   
71.99   Penalty
§ 71.01  PROHIBITED KEEPING AND STORING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to park, store or otherwise maintain a
boat, tractor truck (an automotive vehicle with a driver’s cab used to haul
trailers), truck trailer, trailer, house trailer, disabled vehicle,
recreational vehicle and/or motor home on any public or private property within
the city, unless:
   (A)   It is enclosed within a garage or structure and it is not occupied as
a dwelling or sleeping place; and
   (B)   The property in question is a boat trailer, 25 feet or less in length.
The property in question must be recessed where the vehicle/boat is as far back
from the street as possible. The vehicle/boat in question can not exceed ten
feet in total height and must be less than 25 feet in total length.
(Prior Code, § 14.1)  Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.02  EXCEPTION.
   Notwithstanding the provision of §
71.01 of this chapter, a city resident may park his or her boat, tractor truck,
truck trailer, house trailer or recreational vehicle and/or motor home in the
driveway of his or her dwelling for a period not to exceed 72 hours for the
purpose of loading, unloading, cleaning, repairing and/or servicing.
(Prior Code, § 14.2)
§ 71.03  NON-RESIDENT PARKING.
   (A)   A recreational vehicle owned by a person who is not a resident of the
city, and is a guest of a resident of the city, may be parked for a period not
to exceed 72 hours in the driveway of the residence in which the recreational
vehicle owner is a guest.
(Prior Code, § 14.3)
   (B)   For purposes of this section, the time period of 72 hours need not be
continuous.
(Prior Code, § 14.4)
§ 71.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Failure to comply with this chapter shall constitute a violation and
is punishable by a fine of $100 per day. Each day the violation continues shall
be considered a separate and distinct violation.
(Prior Code, § 14.4)
   (B)   All fines shall be paid within ten days of the issuance of the
citation or a late fee of $15 per day shall be applied. If the violation is not
resolved and all penalties are not paid within 30 days of the issuance of the
citation, a lien may be placed against the property.
(Prior Code, § 14.5)
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   ANIMAL CONTROL
      
91.   PROPERTY MAINTENANCE; NUISANCES
CHAPTER 90:  ANIMAL CONTROL
Section
   
90.01   Leash law
   
90.02   Pet nuisances
 
   
90.99   Penalty
§ 90.01  LEASH LAW.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any owner or person in charge of a dog or
other domesticated animal to permit or allow such animal to run at large in the
city and/or onto the private property of other residents within the city
limits.
(Prior Code, § 5.1)
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any owner in charge of a dog or other
domesticated animal to permit such animal to be on the public roadways of the
city unless said animal is on leash and under absolute control of the owner or
his or her agent.
(Prior Code, § 5.2)
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any owner in charge of a dog or other
domesticated animal to permit such animal to defecate on the property of the
city and/or the private property owned by someone other than the owner without
removing same immediately thereafter.
(Prior Code, § 5.3)
Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.02  PET NUISANCES.
   It shall be unlawful for a person to keep, harbor or own any dog, cat or
other domesticated animal within the city limits, which does any one of the
following objectionable actions:
   (A)   Incessantly barks, howls, yelps or whines loud enough to be heard
beyond the premises where it is kept or harbored;
(Prior Code, § 6.1)
   (B)   Habitually goes on any property or premises not owned or occupied by
the persons who keeps, harbors or owns the dog, cat or other domestic animal;
(Prior Code, § 6.2)
   (C)   Habitually turns over or gets into garbage cans or milk containers, or
damages shrubbery and items of personal property, located on any premises other
than those owned by the person who keeps, harbors or owns the dog, cat or other
domestic animal;
(Prior Code, § 6.3)
   (D)   When not on the property of its owner or keeper, habitually runs at,
jumps on, chases, barks at, bites at or in any way frightens, molests or scares
any child or adult other than the one who keeps, harbors or owns the dog, cat
or other domestic animal;
(Prior Code, § 6.4)
   (E)   Chases, attacks or kills any dog or other animal besides those owned
by the person who keeps, harbors or owns the dog, cat or other domestic animal;
(Prior Code, § 6.5)
   (F)   Bites any person on sidewalks, streets or any property other than that
of its owner or keeper; and
(Prior Code, § 6.6)
   (G)   Chases motor vehicles, bicycles or scooters other than those owned by
the person who keeps, harbors or owns the dog, cat or other domestic animal or
his or her immediate family.
(Prior Code, § 6.7)
Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   (1)   Violation of §
90.01 of this chapter shall constitute a violation which is punishable by a
fine of $75.
(Prior Code, § 5.3)
      (2)   All fines shall be paid within ten days of the issuance of the
citation or a late fee of $15 per day shall be applied. If the violation is not
resolved and all penalties are not paid within 30 days of the issuance of the
citation, a lien may be placed against the property.
(Prior Code, § 5.4)
   (C)   (1)   Violation of §
90.02 of this chapter shall constitute a violation which carries a fine of up
to $250.
(Prior Code, § 6.7)
      (2)   All fines shall be paid within ten days of the issuance of the
citation or a late fee of $15 per day shall be applied. If the violation is not
resolved and all penalties arc not paid within 30 days of the issuance of the
citation, a lien may be placed against the property.
(Prior Code, § 6.8)
CHAPTER 91:  PROPERTY MAINTENANCE; NUISANCES
Section
Property Maintenance
   
91.01   Premises and landscaping; maintenance
   
91.02   Notice and abatement
   
91.03   Lien resulting from city abatement
 
   
91.99   Penalty
PROPERTY MAINTENANCE
§ 91.01  PREMISES AND LANDSCAPING; MAINTENANCE.
   Any owner or his or her agent or occupant of property located within the
city limits shall be subject to the following provisions:
   (A)   All premises and landscape elements shall be maintained in a safe,
sanitary and acceptable condition, including, but not limited to, steps, walks,
driveways, fences, decks, retaining walls, shrubs, trees, grass and weeds;
   (B)   Weeds, shrubs, grass and trees shall be kept trimmed and from becoming
overgrown;
   (C)   Trees and shrubs which have branches projecting into the public right-
of-way or easements shall be kept trimmed 15 feet above the public roadways.
Additionally, any tree or shrub or other plant form afflicted with decay or
vegetation sickness which can be transmitted to other trees, shrubs or plants
shall be treated or removed;
   (D)   All fences, decks, retaining walls or similar structures shall be
firmly anchored in the ground and maintained in good structural repair. Wooden
structures subject to deterioration from weathering shall be maintained with
chemicals or paint to preserve the structure and retard deterioration;
   (E)   All yards, lots or similar non-enclosed property shall be kept free of
accumulations of trash, garbage waste, rubbish, refuse, junk and other noxious
or offensive materials or substances which may cause a fire hazard or may act
as a breeding place for insects, vermin or other animals;
   (F)   Inoperable vehicles must be stored within an enclosed structure,
screened from view and subject to all terms and conditions of the county
ordinance on abandoned vehicles; and
   (G)   Public roadways shall be kept clear of all yard waste, trimmings and
other lawn debris.
(Prior Code, § 12.1)  Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.02  NOTICE AND ABATEMENT.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any owner or his or her agent or occupant of
property within the city limits not to remedy any violation of §
91.01 of this chapter.
   (B)   Notice in writing may be served upon an owner or his or her agent or
occupant by hand delivery, first class mail, or by posting of it on the
property. Such notice shall describe the violation and shall demand abatement
within ten calendar days from the date of notice, except if the violation
constitutes an immediate danger to the health, safety and well being of the
community, it shall be abated immediately.
(Prior Code, § 12.2)  Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.03  LIEN RESULTING FROM CITY ABATEMENT.
   (A)   Upon failure of any owner or his or her agent or occupant to comply
with the notice by abating such violations, the city and/or its designated
representative is authorized to enter upon the property to remedy the
condition. The city shall have a lien against the property for the reasonable
value of the labor and materials used in remedying such situations. This will
include the cost of cutting, clearing and removal of the violation in addition
to other reasonable actions necessary to abate same.
   (B)   The affidavit of the Mayor of the city, or the responsible agent
designated by the city, shall constitute prima facie evidence of the amount of
the lien and the proceedings pursuant to this subchapter, and upon the same
being recorded in the office of the County Clerk, the document shall establish
and constitute a lien upon and against the property wherein such labor and
materials were utilized to abate such violation. Recording of the lien shall be
noticed to the public at large of the existence of a lien, and the same shall
bear interest at a rate of 12% per annum from date of lien and thereafter until
paid.
(Prior Code, § 12.3)
§ 91.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   (1)   (a)   Any owner or his or her agent or occupant who has received
notice of a violation of the provisions above and who has failed to abate the
violation may be charged with a violation of §§
91.01 through
91.03 of this chapter in a criminal complaint in the county’s District Court.
         (b)   Any owner or his or her agent or occupant who violates any
provision of §§
91.01 through
91.03 of this chapter shall be guilty of a violation which shall be punishable
by a fine of up to $250.
(Prior Code, § 12.3)
      (2)   All fines shall be paid within ten days of the issuance of the
citation or a late fee of $15 per day shall be applied. If the violation is not
resolved and all penalties are not paid within 30 days of the issuance of the
citation, a lien may be placed against the property.
(Prior Code, § 12.4)
TITLE IX: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   PEDDLERS AND SOLICITORS
CHAPTER 110:  PEDDLERS AND SOLICITORS
Section
   
110.01   Traveling from place to place prohibited
 
   
110.99   Penalty
§ 110.01  TRAVELING FROM PLACE TO PLACE PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to conduct any form of solicitation,
whether for commercial, religious, civic, charitable or educational purposes,
by traveling from place to place within the city.
(Prior Code, § 17.1)  Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.99  PENALTY.
   Any person conducting activities in the city in violation of §
110.01 of this chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction,
shall be subject to a fine of not more than $250.
(Prior Code, § 17.2)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   FIREARMS AND WEAPONS
CHAPTER 130:  FIREARMS AND WEAPONS
Section
   
130.01   Discharge prohibited
 
   
130.99   Penalty
§ 130.01  DISCHARGE PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful within the city for any person to use or discharge any
firearm or weapon from which a projectile, metal shot or metal pellet is or may
be propelled. This includes items commonly known as “air rifles”, “air pistols”
or “BB guns”.
(Prior Code, § 23.1)  Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of §
130.01 of this chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and fined not less than
$5, nor more than $50, for each offense; and any such weapon as described in §
130.01 of this chapter found in the possession of any person convicted under
the provisions of §
130.01 of this chapter may be ordered by the District Court of the county to be
confiscated and destroyed.
   (B)   All fines shall be paid within ten days of the issuance of the
citation or a late fee of $15 per day shall be applied. If the violation is not
resolved, and all penalties are not paid within 30 days of the issuance of the
citation, a lien may be placed against the property.
(Prior Code, § 23.2)
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   BUILDING REGULATIONS; CONSTRUCTION
      
151.   STREETS, SIDEWALKS AND DRIVEWAYS
      
152.   TREES
      
153.   SIGNS
      
154.   TEMPORARY STRUCTURES AND CONTAINERS
CHAPTER 150:  BUILDING REGULATIONS; CONSTRUCTION
Section
   
150.01   Structural alterations; construction
   
150.02   Driveways and landscaping; drainage
   
150.03   Easements
   
150.04   Fences
   
150.05   House numbering
 
   
150.99   Penalty
§ 150.01  STRUCTURAL ALTERATIONS; CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, partnership and/or
corporation to construct, alter, change, erect or in any manner structurally
change any building or structure or improvement upon the land in the corporate
limits of the city without first seeking the approval and obtaining a permit
from the City Commission. Before seeking approval, the applicant must submit an
outline of the plans, specifications and proposals.
(Prior Code, § 4.1)
   (B)   Before a building permit is issued for the improvement of any property
within the city limits, it shall be the duty of any person, firm, partnership
and/or corporation so constructing or erecting any such improvement and/or
repairs to deposit with the City Clerk the sum of $1,000 as bond to be held in
escrow for said depositor for the purpose of indemnifying the city for any
damage occasioned during the construction of said improvements or structural
alterations to any property owned by the city, including sidewalks, lighting
equipment, conduit standards, roads or any other property of the city or upon
which it is the duty of the city to maintain.
(Prior Code, § 4.2)
   (C)   It is expressly provided that prior to the use of any money so
deposited, the depositor shall be notified by first class mail to his or her
last known address of the intention of the city to utilize the funds. The city
may elect to repair, replace or construct any damage for the deposit made by
said depositor. Upon the satisfactory completion of the work, the city shall
properly adjust said deposit and return any remainder to the depositor.
(Prior Code, § 4.3)
Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.02  DRIVEWAYS AND LANDSCAPING; DRAINAGE.
   (A)   Any person constructing a new driveway or landscape of an area, or
replacing an existing one, within ten feet of the street must have the approval
of the Commission of the city.
(Prior Code, § 7.1)
   (B)   All driveway approaches and landscape areas within ten feet of the
street must be installed according to the city code and must not interfere with
the city’s drainage. The driveway approach must be below the drainage point or
have a pipe installed underneath it.
(Prior Code, § 7.2)
Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.03  EASEMENTS.
   (A)   It is the duty of the property owner to maintain the front landscape
easement area and utility easements behind and abutting his or her respective
properties in a safe and acceptable condition.
(Prior Code, § 8.1)
   (B)   (1)   Front easements/rights-of-way must be kept mowed and otherwise
maintained by the property owner.
      (2)   Plantings shall not exceed 30 inches in height from grade of yard
at sidewalk level.
      (3)   In addition, the area shall be kept free of debris and other
objects so as to not impede drainage.
(Prior Code, § 8.2)
   (C)   Utility easements behind properties in the city are the responsibility
of the adjoining property owner and must be kept mowed and free of any rubbish
(including tree/shrub cuttings and other yard waste).
(Prior Code, § 8.3)
Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.04  FENCES.
   (A)   (1)   A FENCE is any enclosure constructed of wood, metal, wire mesh,
masonry or any other material, including shrubbery and plantings, erected for
the purpose of privacy and or protection.
      (2)   Any person erecting, building and/or constructing a fence within
the city limits shall be required to provide a plan, specifications and/or
proposal concerning said fence to the City Commission and receive its approval
before the erecting, building and/or constructing any such structure.
(Prior Code, § 9.1)
   (B)   (1)   No fence is permitted in front of a residence.
      (2)   Residences on corner lots or on lots where the side and/or back of
the property fronts on a street shall not have fence above four feet high and
said fence must remain five feet from the street or sidewalk.
(Prior Code, § 9.2)
   (C)   In addition to the requirements as set out in division (B) above, any
proposed fencing must meet the standards and all other requirements imposed by
the city (i.e., a maximum of six feet for side and rear yards, and made of
solid materials).
(Prior Code, § 9.3)
Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.05  HOUSE NUMBERING.
   (A)   In order to have adequate and prompt fire, police and emergency
medical service protection to the residents of the city, it is necessary for
such personnel to readily identify house numbers at all times during the day
and night, and the city encourages its residents to place their residential
addresses in a conspicuous place, which is clearly visible from the street, and
kept free and clear of any obstructions hindering visibility from the street
passing in front of the residence.
   (B)   Further, for visibility purposes, the numbers should be in standard
Arabic form of size of at least three inches by two inches and in a color
distinguishable from the background and color of the residence.
(Prior Code, § 10.1)
§ 150.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   (1)   Violation of §
150.01 of this chapter shall constitute a violation and be punishable by a fine
of $250 and/or the issuance of a stop work order and/or the removal of the
offending structure.
(Prior Code, § 4.4)
      (2)   All fines shall be paid within ten days of the issuance of the
citation or a late fee of $15 per day shall be applied. If the violation is not
resolved and all penalties are not paid within 30 days of the issuance of the
citation, a lien may be placed against the property.
(Prior Code, § 4.5)
   (C)   (1)   Violations of §
150.02 of this chapter will result in the correction (at the property owner’s
expense) of the driveway approach or landscape area. Failure to comply with §
150.02 of this chapter shall constitute a violation and shall result in a fine
of $100 per day.
(Prior Code, § 7.3)
      (2)   All fines shall be paid within ten days of the issuance of the
citation or a late fee of $15 per day shall be applied. If the violation is not
resolved and all penalties are not paid within 30 days of the issuance of the
citation, a lien may be placed against the property.
(Prior Code, § 7.4)
   (D)   (1)   A violation of §
150.03 of this chapter shall be punishable by a fine in the amount of $50 per
offense. In addition, the Commission may elect, upon proper notice to the
homeowner, to remedy the violation and to place a lien against the property.
(Prior Code, § 8.3)
      (2)   All fines shall be paid within ten days of the issuance of the
citation or a late fee of $15 per day shall be applied. If the violation is not
resolved and all penalties are not paid within 30 days of the issuance of the
citation, a lien may be placed against the property.
(Prior Code, § 8.4)
   (E)   (1)   Failure to comply with §
150.04 of this chapter shall constitute a violation and be punishable by a fine
of $250 and/or removal of the offending structure.
(Prior Code, § 9.3)
      (2)   All fines shall be paid within ten days of the issuance of the
citation or a late fee of $15 per day shall be applied. If the violation is not
resolved and all penalties are not paid within 30 days of the issuance of the
citation, a lien may be placed against the property.
(Prior Code, § 9.4)
CHAPTER 151:  STREETS, SIDEWALKS AND DRIVEWAYS
Section
Sidewalks
   
151.01   General maintenance
   
151.02   Cost
   
151.03   Criteria for repair, replacement
   
151.04   Notification to property owner
SIDEWALKS
§ 151.01  GENERAL MAINTENANCE.
   General maintenance of sidewalks is the duty of the owner of the property
abutting the sidewalk.
(Prior Code, § 15.1)
§ 151.02  COST.
   The cost of any qualifying sidewalk repair and/or replacement shall be
shared between the city and the property owner: each party responsible for 50%
of the repair/replacement costs.
(Prior Code, § 15.2)
§ 151.03  CRITERIA FOR REPAIR, REPLACEMENT.
   (A)   A sidewalk will be deemed to be in need of repair and/or replacement,
if the city, by and through the Commissioner in charge of sidewalks, determines
such repair/replacement is needed, under the following rating scale:
      (1)   Rating Scale 1 through 5:
         (a)   Sidewalk is rough, uneven, holds water, cracked, no grade
difference: 1;
         (b)   Less than one inch of grade difference: 2;
         (c)   Between one and two inches of grade difference: 3;
         (d)   Between two and three inches of grade difference: 4; and
         (e)   Over three inches of grade difference and/or contains serious
defects: 5.
      (2)   Other considerations to be considered in the discretion of the City
Commission:
         (a)   The location of the sidewalk; and
         (b)   Whether a tree (or its roots) is involved.
(Prior Code, § 15.3)
   (B)   If the sidewalk is rated 3 through 5, it will be repaired and/or
replaced as a sole responsibility of the city. If the rating is 1 or 2, the
homeowner shall pay 100% any repair/replacement.
(Prior Code, § 15.4)
§ 151.04  NOTIFICATION TO PROPERTY OWNER.
   Once the defects are ascertained, it shall be the duty of the city to notify
the property owner that repair/replacement is suggested.
(Prior Code, § 15.5)
CHAPTER 152:  TREES
Section
   
152.01   Cost; payment for removal
   
152.02   Prior approval required
   
152.03   Purchasing, planting new trees
   
152.04   Shade, ornamental trees
 
   
152.99   Penalty
§ 152.01  COST; PAYMENT FOR REMOVAL.
   (A)   (1)   The city shall pay 50% of the cost for the removal of any tree,
including the stump, that is located in the front easement and/or right-of-way
and has been declared dead, dying and/or hazardous by the City Commission after
consultation with a qualified arborist.
      (2)   The property owner shall be responsible for payment of the
remaining 50%.
(Prior Code, § 20.1)
   (B)   (1)   The city will pay for the partial removal of any tree that due
to a storm or other natural condition has blocked a public roadway or sidewalk.
      (2)   This obligation shall extend only to the clearing of the public
roadway or sidewalk and the remainder of the removal cost shall be borne by the
homeowner.
(Prior Code, § 20.2)
§ 152.02  PRIOR APPROVAL REQUIRED.
   Except as stated in §
152.01 of this chapter, it shall be unlawful for any person, firm, partnership
or corporation to remove any tree(s) from the easement or right-of-way in the
city without the prior approval of the City Commission.
(Prior Code, § 20.3)  Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.03  PURCHASING, PLANTING NEW TREES.
   The city shall pay up to $150 toward the purchasing and planting of a wide
range of hardwood trees planted within 15 feet of the street, but not closer
than ten feet of the street or a driveway. Approved tree species include black
maple, sugar maple, beech, blue ash, ginkgo, white oak and others. A person
shall contact City Clerk or Mayor for approval.
(Prior Code, § 20.4)
§ 152.04  SHADE, ORNAMENTAL TREES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to cut, damage or remove any shade
or ornamental tree on any of the public ways of the city without having first
secured a permit to do so from the City Commission. (See tree removal request
application.)
(Prior Code, § 24.1)
   (B)   It is the responsibility of the homeowner to maintain any tree or
shrub on his or her property. If the tree is covered with ivy or any other
potentially hazardous vine, then it is the responsibility of the homeowner to
have the vine removed from the tree, as it will eventually kill the tree.
(Prior Code, § 24.2)
Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   (1)   The violation of §
152.02 of this chapter will result in a fine of $250 for each offense.
(Prior Code, § 20.3)
      (2)   All fines shall be paid within ten days of the issuance of the
citation or a late fee of $15 per day shall be applied. If the violation is not
resolved and all penalties are not paid within 30 days of the issuance of the
citation, a lien may be placed against the property.
(Prior Code, § 20.5)
   (C)   All fines for violation of §
152.04 of this chapter shall be paid within ten days of the issuance of the
citation or a late fee of $15 per day shall be applied. If the violation is not
resolved and all penalties are not paid within 30 days of the issuance of the
citation, a lien may be placed against the property.
(Prior Code, § 24.3)
CHAPTER 153:  SIGNS
Section
   
153.01   Damage or destruction of signs
   
153.02   Affixing signs to property
   
153.03   Commercial signage
 
   
153.99   Penalty
§ 153.01  DAMAGE OR DESTRUCTION OF SIGNS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to damage, deface and/or destroy any
sign or other property belonging to the city.
(Prior Code, § 16.1)  Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.02  AFFIXING SIGNS TO PROPERTY.
   (A)   No sign of any type, including yard, political and/or lost animal
signs shall be affixed to any property owned, operated and/or controlled by the
city, including traffic signs, street signs, light posts and easements.
(Prior Code, § 16.2)
   (B)   No real estate signage of any type relating to the sale of real estate
within the city shall be placed on any property owned, operated and/or
controlled by the city including the entrances to the city or any traffic
island bordering the entrances to the city.
(Prior Code, § 16.3)
Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.03  COMMERCIAL SIGNAGE.
   No commercial signage of any type shall be erected or placed within the city
limits. Exception: temporary commercial signage relating to business being
conducted within the city limits shall be allowable for a 30-day period;
provided, the signage is no larger than 24 x 24 and is removed immediately once
the business being conducted within the city is completed.
(Prior Code, § 16.4)  Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   All fines shall be paid within ten days of the issuance of the
citation or a late fee of $15 per day shall be applied. If the violation is not
resolved and all penalties are not paid within 30 days of the issuance of the
citation, a lien may be placed against the property.
(Prior Code, § 16.5)
   (C)   The violation of §
153.01 of this chapter shall constitute a misdemeanor which carries a fine of
up to $500, including court costs, and 12 months’ imprisonment.
(Prior Code, § 16.1)
   (D)   (1)   The violation of §
153.02(A) of this chapter shall constitute a violation and be punishable by a
fine in the amount of $50.
(Prior Code, § 16.2)
      (2)   Any violation of §
153.02(B) of this chapter shall constitute a violation and shall be punishable
by a fine in the amount of $50. In addition, the violation of §
153.02(B) of this chapter will result in confiscation of the sign in question
by the city.
(Prior Code, § 16.3)
   (E)   The violation of §
153.03 of this chapter shall constitute a violation and be punishable by a fine
in the amount of $50. In addition, the violation of §
153.03 of this chapter will result in confiscation of the sign in question by
the city.
(Prior Code, § 16.4)
CHAPTER 154:  TEMPORARY STRUCTURES AND CONTAINERS
Section
   
154.01   Placement; time limit
 
   
154.99   Penalty
§ 154.01  PLACEMENT; TIME LIMIT.
   It shall be unlawful to place or allow to be placed any portable on demand
storage container (PODS), dumpster or temporary construction structure,
including portable toilets, within 25 feet of the street, or within the city
limits for more than 30 days without the written approval of the City Clerk.
(Prior Code, § 21.1)  Penalty, see §
154.99
§ 154.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   (1)   Violation of §
154.01 of this chapter by any person, corporation or other entity shall
constitute a violation and be punishable by a fine in the amount of $100 per
day until such structure is removed. Each day that the violator remains in
violation shall constitute a separate offense.
      (2)   Fines issued in violation of §
154.01 of this chapter shall be paid within ten days of the issuance of the
citation or a late fee of $25 shall be applied.
(Prior Code, § 21.1)
   (B)   All fines shall be paid within ten days of the issuance of the
citation or a late fee of $15 per day shall be applied. If the violation is not
resolved and all penalties are not paid within 30 days of the issuance of the
citation, a lien may be placed against the property.
(Prior Code, § 21.2)
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Kentucky Revised Statutes
References to Prior Code
REFERENCES TO KENTUCKY REVISED STATUTES
KRS Cites Code Section
KRS Cites        Code Section
2.110            30.01
18a              70.99
61               30.03
61.805 to 61.884 30.02
83A              30.03
83A.010(3)       10.02
83A.010(6)       10.02
83A.010(8)       10.02
83A.065          10.99
91A.010(4)       10.02
91A.010(8)       10.02
446.010(1)       10.02
446.010(2)       10.02
446.010(9)       10.02
446.010(10)      10.02
446.010(12)      10.02
446.010(13)      10.02
446.010(14)      10.02
446.010(15)      10.02
446.010(17)      10.02
446.010(18)      10.02
446.010(23)      10.02
446.010(25)      10.02
446.010(26)      10.02
446.010(27)      10.02
446.010(28)      10.02
446.010(30)      10.02
446.010(31)      10.02
446.010(33)      10.02
446.010(37)      10.02
446.010(39)      10.02
446.010(43)      10.02
446.010(46)      10.02
446.010(47)      10.02
446.010(49)      10.02
446.010(55)      10.02
446.020(1)       10.03
446.020(2)       10.03
446.030          10.04
446.050          10.05
446.060          10.06
446.080(1)       10.03
446.080(3)       10.03
446.080(4)       10.03
446.090          10.07
446.100          10.08
446.110          10.09
446.140          10.01
534.040(2)(c)    10.99
                 
 
REFERENCES TO PRIOR CODE
Prior Code 2020 Code
Prior Code 2020 Code
1.1.1      11.01
1.2.5.1.3  10.19
1.2.5.4    10.20
1.2.1      30.01
1.2.2      30.02
1.2.3      30.03
1.2.4      30.04
1.2.5.6.1  30.15
1.2.5.6.2  30.16
1.2.5.6.3  30.17
1.3.1      31.15
1.3.2      31.16
1.3.3      31.17
1.3.4      31.01
1.3.5      31.18
1.3.6      31.02
2.1        33.01
2.2        33.01
3.1        70.01;
           70.99
3.2        70.01;
           70.99
3.3        70.01;
           70.99
3.4        70.99
4.1        150.01
4.2        150.01
4.3        150.01
4.4        150.99
4.5        150.99
5.1        90.01
5.2        90.01
5.3        90.01;
           90.99
5.4        90.99
6.1        90.02
6.2        90.02
6.3        90.02
6.4        90.02
6.5        90.02
6.6        90.02
6.7        90.02;
           90.99
6.8        90.99
7.1        150.02
7.2        150.02
7.3        150.99
7.4        150.99
8.1        150.03
8.2        150.03
8.3        150.03;
           150.99
8.4        150.99
9.1        150.04
9.2        150.04
9.3        150.04;
           150.99
9.4        150.99
10.1       150.05
12.1       91.01
12.2       91.02
12.3       91.03;
           91.99
12.4       91.99
13.1       70.15;
           70.99
13.2       70.15;
           70.99
13.3       70.15;
           70.99
13.4       70.15;
           70.99
13.5       70.16
13.6       70.99
14.1       71.01
14.2       71.02
14.3       71.03
14.4       71.03;
           71.99
14.5       71.99
15.1       151.01
15.2       151.02
15.3       151.03
15.4       151.03
15.5       151.04
16.1       153.01;
           153.99
16.2       153.02;
           153.99
16.3       153.02;
           153.99
16.4       153.03;
           153.99
16.5       153.99
17.1       110.01
17.2       110.99
18.1       70.02;
           70.99
18.2       70.02;
           70.99
18.3       70.02;
           70.99
18.4       70.99
19.1       33.02
20.1       152.01
20.2       152.01
20.3       152.02;
           152.99
20.4       152.03
20.5       152.99
21.1       154.01;
           154.99
21.2       154.99
23.1       130.01
23.2       130.99
24.1       152.04
24.2       152.04
24.3       152.99
           
 
