BROMLEY, KENTUCKY
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2024 S-2 Supplement contains:
Local legislation current through 12-3-23, passed 1-10-2024; and
State legislation current through KRS 2023
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street * Suite 310 * Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-800-445-5588 * www.amlegal.com
ADOPTING ORDINANCE
ORDINANCE NO. 10-1-21
AN ORDINANCE OF THE CITY OF BROMLEY RE-CODIFYING AND RE-ADOPTING THE CODE OF
ORDINANCES OF THE CITY OF
BROMLEY, KENTUCKY
   Whereas, American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati, Ohio has
completed the 2021 review of the official Code of Ordinances of the City of
Bromley, which contains all ordinances of a general nature enacted since the
prior supplement to the Code of Ordinances of this municipality; and
   Whereas, American Legal Publishing Corporation has recommended the revision
or addition of certain sections of the Code of Ordinances which are based on or
make references to sections of the Kentucky Revised Statutes; and
   Whereas, it is the intent of the City Council to accept these updated
sections in accordance with the changes of the law of the Commonwealth of
Kentucky;
   NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF BROMLEY,
KENTUCKY AS FOLLOWS:
Section I. That the re-codified Code of Ordinances of the City of Bromley,
Kentucky as submitted by American Legal Publishing Corporation, which is
attached hereto and incorporated herein by reference, is hereby adopted and
reenacted by the City of Bromley as its official Code of Municipal Ordinances,
as supplemented in the American Legal Publishing Company’s online Code of
Ordinance of the City of Bromley.
Section II. Any and all ordinances in conflict with this ordinance shall be,
and hereby are, repealed to the extent of said conflict.
Section III. The invalidity of any section, subsection or sentence of this
ordinance shall not affect the remainder of same.
Section IV. This ordinance shall take effect and be in full force from and
after its passage, publication, and recorded according to the law.
            CITY OF BROMLEY, A KENTUCKY
            MUNICIPAL CORPORATION
             /s/ Mike Denham
            Mayor
First reading: 10-6-21
Second reading: 11-3-21
ATTEST:  /s/ Terri Stahl
    Clerk
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   GENERAL CODE CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
CHAPTER 10: GENERAL CODE CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
Section
   
10.01   Short titles
   
10.02   Definitions
   
10.03   Rules of construction
   
10.04   Computation of time
   
10.05   Majority may act for all; authorized agent
   
10.06   Writings and signatures
   
10.07   Severability
   
10.08   Revivor
   
10.09   Rights and liabilities accruing before repeal of ordinance
   
10.10   Construction of section references
   
10.11   Ordinances repealed
   
10.12   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.13   Ordinances saved
   
10.14   Amendments to code; amendatory language
   
10.15   Conflicting provisions
   
10.16   Reference to offices
   
10.17   Errors and omissions
   
10.18   Historical and statutory references
 
   
10.99   Penalty
§ 10.01 SHORT TITLES.
   (A)   (1)   All ordinances of a permanent and general nature of the city as
revised, codified, rearranged, renumbered and consolidated into component
codes, titles, chapters and sections shall be known and designated as the
Bromley Code, for which designation “codified ordinances” or “code” may be
substituted.
      (2)   Code, title, chapter and section headings do not constitute any
part of the law as contained in the code.
(KRS 446.140)
   (B)   All references to codes, titles, chapters and sections are to such
components of the code unless otherwise specified. Any component code may be
referred to and cited by its name, such as the “traffic code.” Sections may be
referred to and cited by the designation “§” followed by the number, such as “§
10.01.” Headings and captions used in this code other than the title, chapter
and section numbers, are employed for reference purposes only and shall not be
deemed a part of the text of any section.
(1997 Code, § 10.01)
§ 10.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this code, the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACTION. Includes all proceedings in any court of this state.
(KRS 446.010(1))
   AND. May be read “OR”, and “OR” may be read “AND”, if the sense requires it.
   ANIMAL. Includes every warm-blooded living creature except a human being.
(KRS 446.010(2))
   AVIS. The automated vehicle information system established and maintained by
the Transportation Cabinet to collect titling and registration information on
vehicles and boats and information on holders of motor vehicle operator’
(KRS 446.010(55))
   CITY, MUNICIPAL CORPORATION or MUNICIPALITY. When used in this code shall
denote the City of Bromley irrespective of its population or legal
classification.
   COMPANY. May extend and be applied to any corporation, company, person,
partnership, joint stock company or association.
(KRS 446.010(9))
   CORPORATION. May extend and be applied to any corporation, company,
partnership, joint stock company or association.
(KRS 446.010(10))
   COUNCIL. The city legislative body.
(KRS 83A.010(5))
   COUNTY. Kenton County, Kentucky.
   CRUELTY. As applied to animals, includes every act or omission whereby
unjustifiable physical pain, suffering or death is caused or permitted.
(KRS 446.010(12))
   DIRECTORS. When applied to corporations, includes managers or trustees.
(KRS 446.010(13))
   DOMESTIC. When applied to a corporation, partnership, business trust or
limited liability company, means all those incorporated or formed by authority
of this state.
(KRS 446.010(14))
   DOMESTIC ANIMAL. Any animal converted to domestic habitat.
(KRS 446.010(15))
   EXECUTIVE AUTHORITY. The Mayor.
(KRS 83A.010(6))
   FEDERAL. Refers to the United States.
(KRS 446.010(17))
   FOREIGN. When applied to a corporation, partnership, business trust or
limited liability company, includes all those incorporated or formed by
authority of any other state.
(KRS 446.010(18))
   KAR. Kentucky Administrative Regulations.
   KEEPER or PROPRIETOR. Includes all persons, whether acting by themselves or
as a servant, agent or employee.
   KRS. Kentucky Revised Statutes.
   LAND or REAL ESTATE. Includes lands, tenements and hereditaments and all
rights thereto and interest therein, other than a chattel interest.
(KRS 446.010(23))
   LEGISLATIVE BODY. The City Council.
(KRS 91A.010(8))
   LEGISLATIVE BODY MEMBER. A City Council member.
(KRS 83A.010(8))
   LIVESTOCK. Cattle, sheep, swine, goats, horses, alpacas, llamas, buffaloes,
or any other animals of the bovine, ovine, porcine, caprine, equine, or camelid
species.
(KRS 446.010(25))
   MAY. The act referred to is permissive.
(KRS 446.010(26))
   MONTH. Calendar month.
(KRS 446.010(27))
   MUNICIPALITY. The City of Bromley, Kentucky.
   OATH. Includes AFFIRMATION in all cases in which an affirmation may be
substituted for an oath.
(KRS 446.010(28))
   PARTNERSHIP. Includes both general and limited partnerships.
(KRS 446.010(30))
   PEACE OFFICER. Includes sheriffs, constables granted police powers,
coroners, jailers, metropolitan and urban-county government correctional
officers, marshals, police officers and other persons with similar authority to
make arrests.
(KRS 446.010(31))
   PERSON. May extend and be applied to bodies-politic and corporate,
societies, communities, the public generally, individuals, partnerships, joint
stock companies and limited liability companies. (KRS 446.010(33))
   PERSONAL PROPERTY. Includes all property except real.
   PREMISES. As applied to property, includes land and buildings.
   PROPERTY. Includes real, personal, mixed estates and interests.
   PUBLIC AUTHORITY. Includes boards of education; the municipal, county, state
or federal government, its officers or an agency thereof; or any duly
authorized public official.
   PUBLIC PLACE. Includes any street, sidewalk, park, cemetery, school yard,
body of water or watercourse, public conveyance or any other place for the sale
of merchandise, public accommodation or amusement.
   REAL PROPERTY. Includes lands, tenements and hereditaments.
   REGULAR ELECTION. The election in even numbered years at which members of
Congress are elected and the election in odd-numbered years at which state
officers are elected.
(KRS 446.010(37))
   SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory.
(KRS 446.010(39))
   SWORN. Includes AFFIRMED in all cases in which an affirmation may be
substituted for an oath.
(KRS 446.010(43))
   SIDEWALK. The portion of the street between the curb line and the adjacent
property line intended for the use of pedestrians.
   STATE. The State of Kentucky.
   STREET. Includes alleys, avenues, boulevards, lanes, roads, highways,
viaducts and all other public thoroughfares within the city.
   SUBCHAPTER. A division of a chapter, designated in this code by a heading in
the chapter analysis and a capitalized heading in the body of the chapter,
setting apart a group of sections related by the subject matter of the heading.
Not all chapters have SUBCHAPTERS.
   TENANT or OCCUPANT. As applied to premises, includes any person holding a
written or oral lease, or who actually occupies the whole or any part of such
premises, alone or with others.
   VACANCY IN OFFICE. Such as exists when there is an unexpired part of a term
of office without a lawful incumbent therein, or when the person elected or
appointed to an office fails to qualify according to law, or when there has
been no election to fill the office at the time appointed by law; it applies
whether the vacancy is occasioned by death, resignation, removal from the
state, county, city or district, or otherwise.
(KRS 446.010(46))
   VIOLATE. Includes failure to comply with.
(KRS 446.010(47))
   YEAR. Calendar year.
(KRS 446.010(49)) (1997 Code, § 10.02)
§ 10.03 RULES OF CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   Singular includes plural. A word importing the singular number only
may extend and be applied to several persons or things, as well as to one
person or thing, and a word importing the plural number only may extend and be
applied to one person or thing as well as to several persons or things. (KRS
446.020(1))
   (B)   Masculine includes feminine. A word importing the masculine gender
only may extend and be applied to females as well as males.
(KRS 446.020(2))
   (C)   Liberal construction. All sections of this code shall be liberally
construed with a view to promote their objects and carry out the intent of
Council.
(KRS 446.080(1))
   (D)   Retroactivity. No ordinance shall be construed to be retroactive,
unless expressly so declared. (KRS 446.080(3))
   (E)   Technical terms. All words and phrases shall be construed according to
the common and approved usage of language, but technical words and phrases and
such others as may have acquired a peculiar and appropriate meaning in the law,
shall be construed according to such meaning.
(KRS 446.080(4)) (1997 Code, § 10.03)
§ 10.04 COMPUTATION OF TIME.
   (A)   In computing any period of time prescribed or allowed by order of
court, or by any applicable ordinance or regulation, the day of the act, event
or default after which the designated period of time begins to run is not to be
included. The last day of the period so computed is to be included, unless it
is a Saturday, a Sunday, a legal holiday or a day on which the public office in
which a document is required to be filed is actually and legally closed, in
which event the period runs until the end of the next day which is not one of
the days just mentioned. When the period of time prescribed or allowed is less
than seven days, intermediate Saturdays, Sundays and legal holidays shall be
excluded in the computation.
   (B)   When an ordinance, regulation or order of court requires an act to be
done either a certain time before an event or a certain time before the day on
which an event occurs, the day of the event shall be excluded in computing the
time. If the day thereby computed on which or by which the act is required to
be done falls on a Saturday, Sunday, legal holiday or a day on which the public
office in which the act is required to be completed is actually and legally
closed, the act may be done on the next day which is none of the days just
mentioned.
   (C)   If any proceeding is directed by law to take place, or any act is
directed to be done, on a particular day of a month and that day is Sunday, the
proceeding shall take place, or the act shall be done, on the next day that is
not a legal holiday.
(KRS 446.030)
   (D)   In all cases where the law requires any act to be done in a reasonable
time or reasonable notice to be given, such REASONABLE TIME OR NOTICE shall
mean the time only as may be necessary for the prompt performance of such duty
or compliance with such notice.
(1997 Code, § 10.04)
§ 10.05 MAJORITY MAY ACT FOR ALL; AUTHORIZED AGENT.
   (A)   Words giving authority to three or more public officers or other
persons shall be construed as giving such authority to a majority of such
officers or other persons.
(KRS 446.050)
   (B)   When the law requires an act to be done which may by law as well be
done by an agent as by the principal, such requirement shall be construed to
include such acts when done by an authorized agent.
(1997 Code, § 10.05)
§ 10.06 WRITINGS AND SIGNATURES.
   (A)   When this code requires any writing to be signed by a party thereto,
it shall not be deemed to be signed unless the signature is subscribed at the
end or close of the writing.
   (B)   Every writing contemplated by this code shall be in the English
language.
(KRS 446.060) (1997 Code, § 10.06)
§ 10.07 SEVERABILITY.
   It shall be considered that it is the intent of Council in enacting any
ordinance, that if any part of the ordinance be held unconstitutional the
remaining parts shall remain in force, unless the ordinance provides otherwise,
or unless the remaining parts are so essentially and inseparably connected with
and dependent upon the unconstitutional part that it is apparent that Council
would not have enacted the remaining parts without the unconstitutional part,
or unless the remaining parts, standing alone, are incomplete and incapable of
being executed in accordance with the intent of Council.
(KRS 446.090) (1997 Code, § 10.07)
§ 10.08 REVIVOR.
   (A)   A repealed ordinance without a delayed effective date is revived when
the ordinance that repealed it is repealed by another ordinance enacted at the
same meeting of Council.
   (B)   A repealed ordinance with a delayed effective date is revived by the
enactment of a repealer of the ordinance that repealed it at the same or any
subsequent meeting of Council as long as it takes effect prior to the effective
date of the original repealer.
   (C)   An amended ordinance without a delayed effective date remains
unchanged with respect to an amendment which is repealed at the same meeting of
Council which enacted the amendment.
   (D)   An amended ordinance with a delayed effective date remains unchanged
with respect to that amendment if the ordinance making the amendment is
repealed at the same or at a subsequent meeting of Council as long as the
repealing ordinance takes effect prior to the effective date of the original
amendment.
   (E)   No other action of Council repealing a repealer or an amendment shall
have the effect of reviving the original language of the repealer or amendment
as the case may be.
(KRS 446.100) (1997 Code, § 10.08)
§ 10.09 RIGHTS AND LIABILITIES ACCRUING BEFORE REPEAL OF ORDINANCE.
   No new ordinance shall be construed to repeal a former ordinance as to any
offense committed against a former ordinance, nor as to any act done, or
penalty, forfeiture or punishment incurred, or any right accrued or claim
arising under the former ordinance, or in any way whatever to affect any such
offense or act so committed or done, or any penalty, forfeiture or punishment
so incurred, or any right accrued or claim arising before the new ordinance
takes effect, except that the proceedings thereafter had shall conform, so far
as practicable, to the laws in force at the time of such proceedings. If any
penalty, forfeiture or punishment is mitigated by any provision of the new
ordinance, such provision may, by the consent of the party affected, be applied
to any judgment pronounced after the new ordinance takes effect.
(KRS 446.110) (1997 Code, § 10.09)
§ 10.10 CONSTRUCTION OF SECTION REFERENCES.
   (A)   Wherever in a penalty section reference is made to a violation of a
section or an inclusive group of sections, such reference shall be construed to
mean a violation of any provision of the section or sections included in the
reference.
   (B)   References in the code to action taken or authorized under designated
sections of the code include, in every case, action taken or authorized under
the applicable legislative provision which is superseded by this code.
   (C)   Whenever in one section reference is made to another section hereof,
the reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified or renumbered, unless the subject matter be
changed or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
(1997 Code, § 10.10)
§ 10.11 ORDINANCES REPEALED.
   This code, from and after its effective date, shall contain all of the
provisions of a general nature pertaining to the subjects herein enumerated and
embraced. All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated by this code
shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date of this code of
ordinances.
(1997 Code, § 10.11)
§ 10.12 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature and all other ordinances
pertaining to subjects not enumerated and embraced in this code of ordinances,
shall remain in full force and effect unless herein repealed expressly or by
necessary implication.
(1997 Code, § 10.12)
§ 10.13 ORDINANCES SAVED.
   Whenever an ordinance by its nature either authorizes or enables the
Council, or a certain city officer or employee, to make additional ordinances
or regulations for the purpose of carrying out the intent of the ordinance, all
ordinances and regulations of a similar nature serving such purpose effected
prior to the codification and not inconsistent thereto, shall remain in effect
and are saved.
(1997 Code, § 10.13)
§ 10.14 AMENDMENTS TO CODE; AMENDATORY LANGUAGE.
   (A)   Any chapter, section or division amended or added to this code by
ordinances passed subsequent to this code may be numbered in accordance with
the numbering system of this code and printed for inclusion herein. Any
chapter, section or division repealed by subsequent ordinances may be excluded
from this code by omission from reprinted pages. Subsequent ordinances as
printed or omitted shall be prima facie evidence of such subsequent ordinances
until Council shall adopt a new code of ordinances.
   (B)   The method of amendment set forth in §
32.37 should be used by the city to amend, add or repeal a chapter, section or
division of this code of ordinances.
(1997 Code, § 10.14)
§ 10.15 CONFLICTING PROVISIONS.
   If the provisions of different codes, chapters or sections of the codified
ordinances conflict with or contravene each other, the provisions bearing the
latest passage date shall prevail. If the conflicting provisions bear the same
passage date, the conflict shall be so construed as to be consistent with the
meaning or legal effect of the questions of the subject matter taken as a
whole.
(1997 Code, § 10.15)
§ 10.16 REFERENCE TO OFFICES.
   Reference to a public office or officer shall be deemed to apply to any
office, officer or employee of the city exercising the powers, duties or
functions contemplated in the provision, irrespective of any transfer of
functions or change in the official title of the functionary.
(1997 Code, § 10.16)
§ 10.17 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   (A)   If a manifest error be discovered consisting of the misspelling of any
word or words, the omission of any word or words necessary to express the
intention of the provisions affected, the use of a word or words to which no
meaning can be attached, or the use of a word or words when another word or
words was clearly intended to express the intention, the spelling shall be
corrected, and the word or words supplied, omitted or substituted as will
conform with the manifest intention, and the provision shall have the same
effect as though the correct words were contained in the text as originally
published.
   (B)   No alteration shall be made or permitted if any question exists
regarding the nature or extent of such error.
(1997 Code, § 10.17)
§ 10.18 HISTORICAL AND STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   As histories for the code sections, the specific number and passage
date of the original ordinance, and the most recent three amending ordinances,
if any, are listed following the text of the code section. Example: (Ord. 10,
passed 5-13-1960; Ord. 15, passed 1-1-1970; Ord. 20, passed 1-1-1980; Ord. 25,
passed 1-1-1985)
   (B)   If a KRS cite is included in the history, this indicates that the text
of the section reads word-for-word the same as the statute. Example: (KRS
83A.090) (Ord. 10, passed 1-17-1980; Ord. 20, passed 1-1-1985). If a KRS cite
is set forth as a “statutory reference” following the text of the section, this
indicates that the reader should refer to that statute for further information.
Example:
      § 31.10 MAYOR.
         The executive authority of the city shall be vested in and exercised
by the Mayor.
      (Ord. 10, passed 1-1-1980)
      Statutory reference:
         For powers and duties of the Mayor, see KRS 83A.130
(1997 Code, § 10.18)
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   Where an act or omission is prohibited or declared unlawful in this code of
ordinances, and no penalty is otherwise provided, the offense shall be deemed a
violation and the offender shall be fined not more than $250 for each offense.
(1997 Code, § 10.99)
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   MAYOR-COUNCIL PLAN
      
31.   CITY OFFICIALS
      
32.   CITY COUNCIL
      
33.   ORGANIZATIONS
      
34.   FINANCE AND REVENUE; TAXATION
      
35.   PUBLIC RECORDS
      
36.   CODE OF ETHICS
      
37.   CITY POLICIES AND PROPERTIES
CHAPTER 30: MAYOR-COUNCIL PLAN
Section
   
30.01   Form of government
   
30.02   Governing officers
§ 30.01 FORM OF GOVERNMENT.
   The form of government provided for the city shall be known as the “Mayor-
Council Plan” and this chapter, together with KRS 83A.010 to 83A.120, govern
the city.
(KRS 83A.130(1)) (1997 Code, § 30.01)
§ 30.02 GOVERNING OFFICERS.
   (A)   The city shall be governed by an elected executive who shall be called
Mayor and by an elected legislative body which shall be called the City
Council, and by other officers and employees as are provided for by statute or
city ordinance.
(KRS 83A.130(2))
   (B)   The City Council shall be composed of not less than six, nor more than
12, members as prescribed by ordinance. An ordinance amending the number of
City Council members shall be:
      (1)   Enacted and filed with the County Clerk no later than the first
Wednesday after the first Monday in November of the year preceding the year in
which the legislative offices will appear on the ballot; and
      (2)   Crafted in such a manner that the amended number of City Council
members becomes effective on January 1 of the year following the election of
the number of City Council members specified in the amending ordinance.
(KRS 83A.030(1)) (1997 Code, § 30.02)
CHAPTER 31: CITY OFFICIALS
Section
General Provisions
   
31.01   Oath
   
31.02   Compensation
   
31.03   Removal from office
   
31.04   Continuity of government in event of emergency
Elected Officials
   
31.15   Election procedure
   
31.16   Mayor
   
31.17   Council members
Non-Elected City Officials
   
31.30   Establishment of non-elected city offices
   
31.31   City Clerk
   
31.32   City Attorney
   
31.33   City Engineer
   
31.34   Alcoholic Beverage Control Administrator
   
31.35   License Inspector
   
31.36   Custodian
   
31.37   Public Works Manager
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 31.01 OATH.
   Each officer of the city shall, before entering upon the discharge of duties
of his or her office, take the following oath: “I do solemnly swear (or affirm,
as the case may be) that I will support the Constitution of this Commonwealth,
and the Constitution of the United States, and be faithful and true to the
Commonwealth of Kentucky, so long as I continue a citizen thereof, and that I
will faithfully execute, to the best of my ability, the office of           ,
according to law; and I do further solemnly swear (or affirm) that, since the
adoption of the present Constitution, I, being a citizen of this United States,
have not fought a duel with deadly weapons within this State, nor out of it,
nor have I sent or accepted a challenge to fight a duel with deadly weapons,
nor have I acted as a second in carrying a challenge, nor aided or assisted any
person thus offending, so help me God”, as established by § 228 of the Kentucky
Constitution.
(1997 Code, § 31.01)
§ 31.02 COMPENSATION.
   (A)   City Council shall, by ordinance, fix the compensation of every
elected city officer not later than the first Monday in May in the year in
which the officer is elected. An elected officer’s compensation shall not be
changed after his or her election or during his or her term of office.
(KRS 83A.070(1))
      (1)   In order to equate the compensation of Mayors and Council members
with the purchasing power of the dollar, the Department for Local Government
shall compute, by the second Friday in February of every year, the annual
increase or decrease in the consumer price index of the preceding year by using
1949 as the base year in accordance with § 246 of the Constitution of Kentucky,
which provides that the Mayor in cities of the first class shall be paid at a
rate no greater than $12,000 per annum, and Mayors in cities other than the
first class and Council members shall be paid at a rate no greater than $7,200
per annum.
      (2)   The City Council shall set the compensation of these officers in
accordance with KRS 83A.070 at a rate no greater than that stipulated by the
Department for Local Government.
(KRS 83A.075)
   (B)   The City Council shall fix the compensation of city employees and non-
elected city officers in accordance with the personnel and pay classification
plan ordinance of the city.
(KRS 83A.070(2))
   (C)   All fees and commissions authorized by law shall be paid into the city
treasury for the benefit of the city and shall not be retained by any officer
or employee.
(KRS 83A.070(3)) (1997 Code, § 31.02)
Case law reference:
   The limits on compensation contained in the Kentucky Constitution are not
absolute limits but rather increase or decrease in accordance with changes in
the consumer price index. See Matthews v. Allen, 360 SW2d 248 (1948).
Editor’s note:
   Compensation ordinances are not set forth in this code, but are rather kept
on file and available for public inspection in the office of the city’s Clerk.
§ 31.03 REMOVAL FROM OFFICE.
   (A)   Elected officers. Any elected officer, in case of misconduct,
incapacity or willful neglect in the performance of the duties of his or her
office, may be removed from office by a unanimous vote of the members of the
City Council exclusive of any member to be removed, who shall not vote in the
deliberation of his or her removal. No elected officer shall be removed without
having been given the right to a full public hearing. The officer, if removed,
has the right to appeal to the circuit court of the county and the appeal shall
be on the record. No officer so removed is eligible to fill the office vacated
before the expiration of the term to which originally elected.
   (B)   Non-elected officers. Non-elected city officers may be removed by the
Mayor at will, unless otherwise provided by state law or ordinance.
(1997 Code, § 31.03)
Statutory references:
   Removal of elected officers, see KRS 83A.040(9)
   Removal of non-elected officers, see KRS 83A.080(3)
§ 31.04 CONTINUITY OF GOVERNMENT IN EVENT OF EMERGENCY.
   When the absence or disability of the Mayor of the city shall prevent the
Mayor from serving in the office during a national, state or local emergency,
the duties and responsibilities of the Mayor shall be administered temporarily
by the Mayor Pro Tem. In the event that neither the Mayor, nor the Mayor Pro
Tem, are able to serve in the office of Mayor, by reason of absence or
disability, during a national, state or local emergency, the duties of the
office of Mayor shall be assumed temporarily by the Fire Chief and if that
person is unable to serve by reason of absence or disability, then by Director
of the county’s Department of Homeland Security and Emergency Management.
(1997 Code, § 31.04) (Ord. 12-01-03, passed 1-7-2004)
ELECTED OFFICIALS
§ 31.15 ELECTION PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Election of city officers shall be governed by general election laws
as provided in KRS Chapters 116 through 121 unless City Council otherwise
prescribes by ordinance that election of city officers shall be under non-
partisan city election laws as provided in KRS Chapter 83A. The ordinance shall
become effective not later than 23 days prior to the date prescribed by the
election law generally for filing notification and declaration forms with the
County Clerk in a year in which a regular election is to be held in which any
city office is to be filled. Immediately subsequent to publication of any
ordinance prescribing that election of city officers be under non-partisan city
election laws, a copy of the ordinance shall be filed with the County Clerk of
the county in which the city is located.
   (B)   The city may change the manner of election of city officers within the
provisions of division (A) above by ordinance; except that, no change shall be
made earlier than five years from the last change.
   (C)   The city shall pay the costs of city elections only if city elections
are held at a time other than prescribed by law for elections generally.
(KRS 83A.050)
   (D)   Each appointed and elected city office existing upon adoption of this
chapter shall continue until abolished by ordinance; except that, the offices
of Mayor and City Council members may not be abolished.
   (E)   No abolition of any elected office shall take effect until expiration
of the term of the current holder of the office.
   (F)   No ordinance abolishing any elected office shall be enacted later than
240 days preceding the regular election for that office, except in the event of
a vacancy in the office.
(KRS 83A.080(4))
   (G)   The city may not create any elected office. Existing elected offices
may be continued under provision of divisions (D), (E) and (F) above, but no
existing elected office may be changed.
(KRS 83A.080(5)) (1997 Code, § 31.20)
§ 31.16 MAYOR.
   (A)   Election; term of office. The Mayor of the city shall be elected by
the voters of the city at a regular election. A candidate for Mayor shall be a
resident of the city for not less than one year prior to his or her election.
His or her term of office shall begin on January 1 following his or her
election and shall be for four years and until his or her successor qualifies.
If a person is elected or appointed as Mayor in response to a vacancy and
serves less than four calendar years, then that period of service shall not be
considered for purposes of re-election to a term of office.
   (B)   Qualifications. The Mayor shall be at least 21 years of age, shall be
a qualified voter in the city and shall reside in the city throughout his or
her term of office.
(KRS 83A.040(1))
   (C)   Vacancy. If a vacancy occurs in the office of Mayor, Council shall
fill the vacancy within 30 days. If, for any reason, any vacancy in the office
of Mayor is not filled within 30 days after it occurs, the Governor shall
promptly fill the vacancy by appointment of a qualified person who shall serve
for the same period as if otherwise appointed.
(KRS 83A.040(2)(a), (6))
      (1)   When voting to fill a vacancy in the office of Mayor, a member of
the City Council shall not vote for himself or herself.
(KRS 83A.040(2)(c))
      (2)   When voting to fill a vacancy created by the resignation of the
Mayor, the resigning Mayor shall not vote on his or her successor.
(KRS 83A.040(3))
      (3)    No vacancy by reason of a voluntary resignation in the office of
Mayor shall occur unless a written resignation which specifies the resignation
date is tendered to the City Council. The resignation may be submitted through
electronic mail if it originates from the Mayor’s electronic mail address and
includes also the Mayor’s handwritten signature. The resignation shall be
effective at the next regular or special meeting of the City Council occurring
on or after the date specified in the written letter of resignation. If a
resignation date is not specified, the written resignation shall be deemed to
become effective at the first regular or special meeting of the City Council
occurring on or after its receipt.
(KRS 83A.040(7))
      (4)   If a vacancy occurs in the office of Mayor which is required by law
to be filled temporarily by appointment, the City Council or the Governor,
whichever is designated to make the appointment, shall immediately notify in
writing both the County Clerk and the Secretary of State of the vacancy.
(KRS 83A.040(8))
      (5)   The City Council shall elect from among its members an individual
to preside over meetings of the City Council during any vacancy in the office
of the Mayor in accordance with the provisions of KRS 83A.130 to 83A.150.
(KRS 83A.040(2)(d))
   (D)   Powers and duties.
      (1)   The executive authority of the city is hereby vested in and
exercised by the Mayor. The Mayor shall enforce the Mayor-Council Plan, city
ordinances and orders and all applicable statutes. He or she shall supervise
all departments of city government and the conduct of all city officers and
employees under his or her jurisdiction and shall require each department to
make reports to him or her as required by ordinance or as he or she deems
desirable.
      (2)   The Mayor shall maintain liaison with related units of local
government respecting interlocal contracting and joint activities.
      (3)   The Mayor shall report to the Council and to the public on the
condition and needs of city government as he or she finds appropriate or as
required by ordinance, but not less than annually. He or she shall make any
recommendations for actions by the Council he or she finds in the public
interest.
(KRS 83A.130(3))
      (4)   Subject to disapproval of the Council, the Mayor shall promulgate
procedures to ensure orderly administration of the functions of city government
and compliance with statutes or ordinances. Upon promulgation or upon revision
or rescission of the procedures, copies shall be filed with the person
responsible for maintaining city records.
(KRS 83A.130(4))
      (5)   Any delegation of the Mayor’s power, duties or responsibilities to
subordinate officers and employees and any expression of his or her official
authority to fulfill executive functions shall be made by executive order.
Executive orders shall be sequentially numbered by years and kept in a
permanent file.
(KRS 83A.130(7))
      (6)   All bonds, notes, contracts and written obligations of the city
shall be made and executed by the Mayor or his or her agent designated by
executive order.
(KRS 83A.130(8))
      (7)   The Mayor shall be the appointing authority with power to appoint
and remove all city employees, including police officers, except as tenure and
terms of employment are protected by statute, ordinance or contract and except
for employees of the Council.
(KRS 83A.130(9))
      (8)   The Mayor shall provide for the orderly continuation of the
functions of city government at any time he or she is unable to attend to the
duties of his or her office by delegating responsibility for any function to be
performed, in accordance with division (D)(5) above. However, the Mayor may not
delegate the responsibility of presiding at meetings of the Council, and the
authority to approve ordinances or promulgate administrative procedures may
only be delegated to an elected officer. With approval of the Council, the
Mayor may rescind any action taken in his or her absence under this division
(D)(8) within 30 days of the action. If, for any reason, the disability of the
Mayor to attend to his or her duties persists for 60 consecutive days, the
office of Mayor may be declared vacant by a majority vote of the Council and
the provisions of division (C) above shall apply.
(KRS 83A.130(10)) (1997 Code, § 31.21)
§ 31.17 COUNCIL MEMBERS.
   For provisions concerning City Council, see
Ch. 32 of this code of ordinances.
(1997 Code, § 31.22)
NON-ELECTED CITY OFFICIALS
§ 31.30 ESTABLISHMENT OF NON-ELECTED CITY OFFICES.
   (A)   All non-elected city offices shall be created by ordinance, which
shall specify:
      (1)   Title of office;
      (2)   Powers and duties of office;
      (3)   Oath of office;
      (4)   Bond, if required; and
      (5)   Compensation, which may be specifically established or set by
reference to another ordinance in which the compensation is specifically
established.
   (B)   With the exception of the Police Chief and all city police officers,
all non-elected city officers shall be appointed by the Mayor with approval of
City Council. The Police Chief and all city police officers shall be appointed
by the Mayor at will and such appointments need not be approved by City
Council.
   (C)   All non-elected officers may be removed by the Mayor at will unless
otherwise provided by statute or ordinance. The following are non-elected city
offices:
      (1)   City Clerk;
      (2)   City Attorney;
      (3)   City Engineer;
      (4)   Alcoholic Beverage Control Administrator;
      (5)   License Inspector; and
      (6)   Custodian.
(1997 Code, § 31.35) (Ord. 6-1-99, passed 7-3-1999)
Statutory reference:
   Non-elected city offices, see KRS 83A.080(1),(2)
§ 31.31 CITY CLERK.
   (A)   The city hereby establishes the office of the City Clerk. This office
reports to the Mayor.
   (B)   The Mayor, with approval of City Council, shall appoint a City Clerk
who shall be the official custodian of all records of the city. The Mayor may
remove the City Clerk at will. He or she shall have graduated from an
accredited high school and shall be chosen on the basis of his or her
secretarial and organizational skills.
   (C)   (1)   The duties and responsibilities of the Clerk shall include, but
are not limited to, the following:
         (a)   Keep an accurate record of the proceedings of all regular and
special meetings of the city and handle and maintain all correspondence;
         (b)   Write and sign all money vouchers for approved bills and
payments;
         (c)   Notify the paper, the Mayor and all Council members and post to
the website within the legal time a notice of all meetings called by City
Council and/or the Mayor;
         (d)   Sort the mail;
         (e)   Keep all correspondence, contracts, ordinances and all pertinent
documents filed properly;
         (f)   Post ordinances approved by Council to the website;
         (g)   Issue yard sale permits;
         (h)   Type any letters requested by City Council and/or the Mayor;
         (i)   Oversee maintenance of the office equipment;
         (j)   Prepare address labels as needed for newsletters and the like;
         (k)   Archive records on a monthly basis with the city’s designated IT
firm; and
         (l)   Other duties as assigned.
      (2)   The City Clerk will be in the city office on Tuesday and Wednesday
mornings from 9:00 a.m. to 11:00 a.m., and at other times mutually agreeable to
conduct city business, will attend all regular and special Council meetings.
Other days will be required for audits and/or special projects.
   (D)   Compensation shall be in the amount as established by the City Council
from time to time as set forth in §
31.02 of this chapter.
   (E)   No person shall be appointed or act as the City Clerk unless such
person has taken the oath required by § 228 of the Constitution of the
commonwealth and has provided bond, if required, with corporate surety
authorized to transact business in the commonwealth and conditioned upon the
performance of the duties specified
(1997 Code, § 31.36) (Ord. 6-1-99, passed 7-3-1999; Ord. 2-1-20, passed 3-4-
2020; Ord. 3-1-2021, passed 4-7-2021)
§ 31.32 CITY ATTORNEY.
   (A)   Establishment. There is hereby established the office of City
Attorney.
   (B)   Appointment and qualifications. The Mayor, with the approval of City
Council, shall appoint a City Attorney who shall be the general law officer and
legal counsel of the city. The Mayor may remove the City Attorney at will. He
or she shall be an attorney licensed to practice in the commonwealth. He or she
shall be chosen solely on the basis of his or her legal qualifications, with
special emphasis on actual experience in or knowledge of the commonwealth’s
municipal and administrative law. The City Attorney may also engage in the
private practice of law and may hold other public or private employment.
   (C)   Duties and powers. The City Attorney shall perform the following
duties:
      (1)   Attend regular and special Council meetings;
      (2)   Prepare city ordinances as directed by City Council;
      (3)   Provide legal advice to City Council and the Mayor; and
      (4)   Prepare monthly report for Council. Extra duties to be paid at a
rate mutually agreed upon.
   (D)   Compensation for extraordinary services. In addition to the salary
fixed for City Attorney by annual ordinance of City Council, the City Attorney
shall receive additional compensation as an independent contractor for all
extraordinary services, including appearances in legal actions and
administrative proceedings and hearings involving the city, municipal bond
issues, real estate acquisitions and dispositions and other matters beyond the
scope of usual legal counsel to the city or requiring an unusual amount of
time. For such extraordinary services, the City Attorney shall be paid
reasonable fees commensurate with the amount and value of time devoted thereto,
based upon charges made by other attorneys for comparable legal services.
   (E)   Oath and bond. No person shall be appointed or act as City Attorney
unless such person has taken the oath required by § 228 of the Constitution of
the commonwealth and has provided a bond in the sum as established by City
Council, with corporate surety authorized to transact business in the
commonwealth and conditioned upon the performance of the duties specified
herein.
(1997 Code, § 31.38) (Ord. 6-1-99, passed 7-3-1999)
§ 31.33 CITY ENGINEER.
   (A)   The office of City Engineer is hereby established.
   (B)   The City Engineer shall be appointed by the Mayor with the approval of
the City Council pursuant to KRS 83A.080 and may be removed by the Mayor at
will.
   (C)   No person shall be appointed or act as the City Engineer unless such
person has taken the oath required by § 228 of the Constitution of the
commonwealth and has provided a bond in the sum as established by City Council,
with corporate surety authorized to transact business in the commonwealth and
conditioned upon the performance of the duties specified herein.
   (D)   The City Engineer shall advise the Mayor and City Council on all
matters relating to the maintenance and improvement of streets, alleys and
other public ways, and on matters which may be deemed necessary for the public
good, welfare and convenience, including matters pertaining to sewers and
culverts, and shall perform such work and services in connection therewith, as
may be assigned him or her by the City Council.
   (E)   The compensation of the City Engineer shall be in an amount to be
established by City Council by ordinance.
(1997 Code, § 31.40)
§ 31.34 ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE CONTROL ADMINISTRATOR.
   For provisions concerning the Alcoholic Beverage Control Administrator, see
§
112.03 of this code of ordinances.
(1997 Code, § 31.41) (Ord. 1-2-87, passed - -1987)
§ 31.35 LICENSE INSPECTOR.
   (A)   Established. There is hereby created the office of the License
Inspector.
   (B)   Powers and duties. The powers and duties of the License Inspector are:
      (1)   To provide for the issuance of all licenses required by the
ordinances of the city, including, but not limited to, alcoholic beverage
control licenses, occupational licenses, city motor vehicle sticker licenses
and real estate rental licenses and to act as the City Administrative Officer
pursuant to §§
110.01,
110.02 and
110.15 through
110.21 of this code of ordinances; and
      (2)   To enforce all ordinances, statutes and regulations regarding the
issuance of and maintenance and retention of licenses and enforcement of
violations regarding licenses and conduct of businesses and activities licensed
within the confines of the city.
   (C)   Oath and bond. No person shall be appointed or act as the License
Inspector unless such person has taken the oath required by § 228 of the
Constitution of the commonwealth and the code of ordinances of the city, and
shall provide bond in the sum as established by the City Council, with
corporate surety authorized to transact business in the commonwealth and
conditioned upon the performance of the duty specified herein.
   (D)   Compensation. The compensation of the License Inspector shall be as
established by city ordinance.
   (E)   Emergency passage provision. Due to the lack of a License Inspector
within the confines of the city and the necessity to have a License Inspector
as soon as possible to provide for conformity with laws and regulations
regarding licenses and the issuance and maintenance of same, a second reading
of this section, as required by state revised statutes, is not required, in
that an emergency situation exists within the city due to a lack of a License
Inspector.
(1997 Code, § 31.45) (Ord. 8-1-92, passed 8-11-1992; Ord. 9-2-04, passed 11-3-
2004)
§ 31.36 CUSTODIAN.
   The duties of custodian shall be as follows:
   (A)   Keep the sidewalks free of snow and ice in winter. Do not let salt
stand on sidewalks after snow and ice are removed;
   (B)   Sweep the outside of the building, including the east ramp. Spray
weeds and grass in cracks as needed;
   (C)   Clean outside windows twice a year;
   (D)   Washrooms (three): keep facilities clean, including mopping floors as
needed. Fill paper towels, soap, tissues and toilet tissue;
   (E)   Upstairs: run sweeper, polish furniture in Council room and all
offices, change light bulbs and exit lights as needed, clean inside windows at
least twice a year, take curtains down and clean at least twice a year, empty
all trash cans and replace bags after office hours;
   (F)   Downstairs: keep tables and bar top clean, mop floors once a week.
This includes bathrooms, hall area and bar area, clean and/or mop the steps,
change light bulbs and exit lights as needed, clean inside windows at least
twice a year, take curtains down and clean at least twice a year, arrange
tables and chairs in an orderly fashion, empty all trash cans and replace bags,
take trash out on regular trash days;
   (G)   Purchase supplies as needed, submit bills or credit card receipt to
City Clerk for payment;
   (H)   Clean Hall after rental. The Hall chairperson will advise when the
Hall is rented. Hall needs to be cleaned as soon as possible as rented. The
custodian shall receive $50 extra; and
   (I)   Report to Hall Committee Chairperson and/or the Mayor.
(1997 Code, § 31.46) (Ord. 6-1-99, passed 7-3-1999)
§ 31.37 PUBLIC WORKS MANAGER.
   (A)   The office of Public Works Manager is hereby established.
   (B)   The City Public Works Manager shall be appointed by the Mayor with the
approval of the City Council, pursuant to KRS 83A.080, and may be removed by
the Mayor at will.
   (C)   (1)   The Public Works Manager shall maintain and oversee the city's
street conditions, grounds, buildings, signs, equipment and ensure the general
overall cleanliness of the city. The Public Works Manager shall also be on call
upon request of the Mayor to respond to a variety of issues that are not
uncommon to the well-being of the city.
      (2)   In addition, the Public Works Manager shall provide weekly citywide
litter cleanup of park area, city streets, and curb debris; perform a seasonal
cleanup with the use of the street sweeper citywide; perform street inspections
for repair to include creation and maintenance of a record of all areas;
perform annual trimming of tree branches and bushes interfering with pedestrian
traffic; be responsible for the proper management of the storm water pollution
prevention as outlined in Sanitation District No. 1 storm water management
policy; maintain and provide an accurate inventory of Public Works equipment
and supplies to the City Clerk; perform a variety of administrative duties
associated with the position; and provide all necessary maintenance for the
smooth operation of the City Building as well as providing assistance to the
Clerk and Custodian.
      (3)   The Manager will also be available to assignments beyond his normal
scope of work. Addition compensation will be paid for this type of work as
needed. The Manager will be responsible for maintaining records related to his
or her duties and will submit a detailed report when asked to perform work
outside the normal scope expected.
   (D)   The Public Works Manager shall have a high school diploma or
equivalent GED; be skilled in the use of all types of hand tools as well as
motor operated equipment such as lawn mowers, tractors and street sweepers;
must have or obtain within a reasonable period of time a certification in the
use and care of weed killing products; and must have a valid driver's license.
   (E)   The Public Works Manager shall be compensated at a rate of $11.76 an
hour until the city’s Pay Classification Ordinance is adopted and then be
compensated according to that ordinance.
(Ord. 4-1-22, passed 5-11-2022)
CHAPTER 32: CITY COUNCIL
Section
General Provisions
   
32.01   Members; election, qualifications, compensation
   
32.02   Vacancies
   
32.03   Powers and duties
Rules of Procedure
   
32.15   Mayor as Presiding Officer
   
32.16   Meetings
   
32.17   Quorum
Ordinances
   
32.30   One subject; title
   
32.31   Introduction; enacting clause
   
32.32   Form of amendment
   
32.33   Reading requirement; exception for emergency
   
32.34   Approval, disapproval by Mayor
   
32.35   Adoption of standard codes by reference
   
32.36   Official city records
   
32.37   Indexing and maintenance requirements
   
32.38   Publication requirements
   
32.39   Additional requirements for adoption may be established by city
   
32.40   Periodic review required
   
32.41   Municipal orders
   
32.42   Proved by Clerk; received in evidence
   
32.43   Legislative immunity
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 32.01 MEMBERS; ELECTION, QUALIFICATIONS, COMPENSATION.
   (A)   Election; term of office.
      (1)   Each Council member shall be elected at-large by the voters of the
city at a regular election.
      (2)   Terms of office begin on January 1 following the election and are
for two years, except as provided by §
31.15 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Qualifications. A member shall be at least 18 years of age, shall be a
qualified voter in the city and shall reside in the city throughout his term of
office.
(KRS 83A.040(4)) (1997 Code, § 32.01) (Ord. 11-1-79, passed 1-17-1980)
§ 32.02 VACANCIES.
   (A)   Vacancies. If one or more vacancies on Council occur in a way that one
or more members remain seated, the remaining members shall within 30 days fill
the vacancies one at a time, giving each new appointee reasonable notice of his
or her selection as will enable him or her to meet and act with the remaining
members in making further appointments until all vacancies are filled. If
vacancies occur in a way that all seats become vacant, the Governor shall
appoint qualified persons to fill the vacancies sufficient to constitute a
quorum. Remaining vacancies shall be filled as provided in this section.
(KRS 83A.040(5))
      (1)    No vacancy by reason of a voluntary resignation of a member of the
City Council shall occur unless a written resignation which specifies a
resignation date is tendered to the City Council. The resignation may be
submitted through electronic mail if it originates from the City Council
member’s electronic mail address and includes also the City Council member’s
handwritten signature. The resignation shall be effective at the next regular
or special meeting of the City Council occurring on or after the date specified
in the written letter of resignation. If a resignation date is not specified,
the written resignation shall be deemed to become effective at the first
regular or special meeting of the City Council occurring on or after its
receipt.
(KRS 83A.040(7))
      (2)   Pursuant to KRS 118.305(7), if a vacancy occurs on the City Council
which is required by law to be filled temporarily by appointment, the City
Council or the Governor, whichever is designated to make the appointment, shall
immediately notify in writing both the County Clerk and the Secretary of State
of the vacancy.
(KRS 83A.040(8))
   (B)   Failure to fill vacancies. If, for any reason, any vacancy on Council
is not filled within 30 days after it occurs, the Governor shall promptly fill
the vacancy by appointment of a qualified person who shall serve for the same
period as if otherwise appointed.
(KRS 83A.040(6)) (1997 Code, § 32.02)
Statutory reference:
   Filling of vacancies for non-partisan city office, see KRS 83A.175
§ 32.03 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   (1)   The legislative authority of the city shall be vested in and
exercised by the elected Council of the city.
      (2)   The Council shall not perform any executive functions, except those
functions assigned to it by statute.
(KRS 83A.130(11))
   (B)   The Council shall, by ordinance, establish all appointive offices and
the duties and responsibilities of those offices and codes, rules and
regulations for the public health, safety and welfare.
   (C)   The Council shall provide, by ordinance, for sufficient revenue to
operate city government and shall appropriate the funds of the city in a budget
which provides for the orderly management of city resources.
(KRS 83A.130(12))
   (D)   (1)   The Council shall have the right to investigate all activities
of city government.
      (2)   The Council may require any city officer or employee to prepare and
submit to it sworn statements regarding the performance of his or her official
duties.
      (3)   Any statement required by the Council to be submitted or any
investigation undertaken by the Council, if any office, department or agency
under the jurisdiction of the Mayor is involved, shall not be submitted or
undertaken unless and until written notice of the Council’s action is given to
the Mayor.
      (4)   The Mayor may review any statement before submission to the Council
and to appear personally or through his or her designee on behalf of any
department, office or agency in the course of any investigation.
(KRS 83A.130(13)) (1997 Code, § 32.03)
RULES OF PROCEDURE
§ 32.15 MAYOR AS PRESIDING OFFICER.
   (A)   The Mayor shall preside at meetings of the Council. The Council may
set, by ordinance, the manner in which one of its number may be selected to
preside at meetings of the Council in place of the Mayor.
   (B)   The Mayor may participate in Council proceedings, but shall not have a
vote; except that, he or she may cast the deciding vote in case of a tie.
(KRS 83A.130(5)) (1997 Code, § 32.20)
§ 32.16 MEETINGS.
   (A)    Regular meetings of the Council shall be held on the second Wednesday
of each month at 6:00 p.m. at the City Building.
   (B)   (1)   Special meetings of the Council may be called by the Mayor or
upon written request of a majority of the Council.
      (2)   In the call, the Mayor or Council shall designate the purpose, time
and place of the special meeting with sufficient notice for the attendance of
Council members and for compliance with KRS Chapter 61 and with KRS 61.823.
   (C)   At a special meeting, no business may be considered other than that
set forth in the designation of purpose.
   (D)   The minutes of every meeting shall be signed by the person responsible
for maintaining city records as provided under § 31.31 of this code of
ordinances and by the officer presiding at the meeting.
(KRS 83A.130(11))
   (E)   The City Council shall conduct its meetings in accordance with
Robert’s Rules of Order, newly revised edition.
   (F)   The City Attorney shall act as parliamentarian for the City Council.
(KRS 83A.130(11)) (1997 Code, § 32.21) (Ord. 11-1-92, passed 11-10-1992; Ord.
3-2-02, passed 3-2-2002; Ord. 8-2-18, passed 8-8-2018; Ord. 2-1-22, passed 3-2-
2022)
§ 32.17 QUORUM.
   Unless otherwise provided by statute, a majority of the Council shall
constitute a quorum and a vote of a majority of a quorum is sufficient to take
action.
(KRS 83A.060(6)) (1997 Code, § 32.22)
ORDINANCES
§ 32.30 ONE SUBJECT; TITLE.
   Each ordinance shall embrace only one subject and shall have a title that
shall clearly state the subject.
(KRS 83A.060(1)) (1997 Code, § 32.35)
§ 32.31 INTRODUCTION; ENACTING CLAUSE.
   Each ordinance shall be introduced in writing and shall have an enacting
clause, styled: “Be it ordained by the City of Bromley.”
(KRS 83A.060(2)) (1997 Code, § 32.36)
§ 32.32 FORM OF AMENDMENT.
   No ordinance shall be amended by reference to its title only, and ordinances
to amend shall set out in full the amended ordinance or section indicating any
text being added by a single solid line drawn underneath it. Text that is
intended to be removed shall be marked at the beginning with an opening bracket
and at the end with a closing bracket. The text between the brackets shall be
stricken through with a single solid line.
(KRS 83A.060(3)) (1997 Code, § 32.37)
§ 32.33 READING REQUIREMENT; EXCEPTION FOR EMERGENCY.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (B) below, no ordinance shall be
enacted until it has been read on two separate days. The reading of an
ordinance may be satisfied by stating the title and reading a summary rather
than the full text.
(KRS 83A.060(4))
   (B)   In an emergency, upon the affirmative vote of two-thirds of the
membership, the Council may suspend the requirements of second reading and
publication to provide for an ordinance to become effective by naming and
describing the emergency in the ordinance. Publication requirements of §
32.38 of this chapter shall be complied with within ten days of the enactment
of the emergency ordinance.
(KRS 83A.060(7)) (1997 Code, § 32.38)
§ 32.34 APPROVAL, DISAPPROVAL BY MAYOR.
   (A)   All ordinances adopted by the Council shall be submitted to the Mayor
who, within ten days after submission, shall either approve the ordinance by
affixing his or her signature or disapprove it by returning it to the Council
together with a statement of his or her objections.
   (B)   No ordinance shall take effect without the Mayor’s approval unless he
or she fails to return it to the Council within ten days after receiving it or
unless the Council votes to override the Mayor’s veto, upon reconsideration of
the ordinance not later than the second regular meeting following its return,
by the affirmative vote of one more than a majority of the membership.
(KRS 83A.130(6)) (1997 Code, § 32.39)
§ 32.35 ADOPTION OF STANDARD CODES BY REFERENCE.
   The Council may adopt the provisions of any local, statewide or nationally
recognized standard code and codifications of entire bodies of local
legislation by an ordinance that identifies the subject matter by title, source
and date and incorporates the adopted provisions by reference without setting
them out in full, if a copy accompanies the adopting ordinance and is made a
part of the permanent records of the city.
(KRS 83A.060(5)) (1997 Code, § 32.40)
§ 32.36 OFFICIAL CITY RECORDS.
   (A)   Every action of the Council shall be made a part of the permanent
records of the city, and on passage of an ordinance the vote of each member of
the Council shall be entered on the official record of the meeting.
   (B)   The Council has provided, under the provisions of §§
31.31(C) of this code of ordinances and
32.37 of this chapter, for the maintenance and safekeeping of the permanent
records of the city. The City Clerk and the presiding officer shall sign the
official record of each meeting.
(KRS 83A.060(8)) (1997 Code, § 32.41)
§ 32.37 INDEXING AND MAINTENANCE REQUIREMENTS.
   At the end of each month, all ordinances adopted in the city shall be
indexed and maintained by the City Clerk in the following manner:
   (A)   The city budget, appropriations of money and tax levies shall be
maintained and indexed so that each fiscal year is kept separate from other
years; and
   (B)   All other city ordinances shall be kept in the minute book or an
ordinance book in the order adopted and indexed in a composite index or
maintained in this code of ordinances.
(KRS 83A.060(8)(a), (b)) (1997 Code, § 32.42)
§ 32.38 PUBLICATION REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Except as provided in §
32.33(B) of this chapter, no ordinance shall be enforceable until published
pursuant to KRS Chapter 424.
   (B)   Ordinances may be published in full or in summary as designated by the
Council. If the Council elects to publish an ordinance in summary, the summary
shall be prepared or certified by an attorney licensed to practice law in the
commonwealth and shall include the following:
      (1)   The title of the ordinance;
      (2)   A brief narrative setting forth the main points of the ordinance in
a way reasonably calculated to inform the public in a clear and understandable
manner of the meaning of the ordinance; and
      (3)   The full text of each section that imposes taxes or fees.
   (C)   Ordinances that include descriptions of real property may include a
sketch, drawing or map, including common landmarks, such as streets or roads in
lieu of metes and bounds descriptions.
(KRS 83A.060(9)) (1997 Code, § 32.43)
§ 32.39 ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENTS FOR ADOPTION MAY BE ESTABLISHED BY CITY.
   The city may, by ordinance, specify additional requirements for adoption of
ordinances in greater detail than contained herein, but the city shall not
lessen or reduce the substantial requirements of this chapter or any statute
relating to adoption of ordinances.
(KRS 83A.060(10)) (1997 Code, § 32.44)
§ 32.40 PERIODIC REVIEW REQUIRED.
   At least once every five years, the city shall cause all ordinances in this
code of ordinances to be examined for consistency with state law and with one
another and to be revised to eliminate redundant, obsolete, inconsistent and
invalid provisions.
(KRS 83A.060(11)) (1997 Code, § 32.45)
§ 32.41 MUNICIPAL ORDERS.
   (A)   Council may adopt municipal orders. All municipal orders shall be in
writing and may be adopted only at an official meeting. Orders may be amended
by a subsequent municipal order or ordinance. All orders adopted shall be
maintained in an official order book.
(KRS 83A.060(12))
   (B)   In lieu of an ordinance, a municipal order may be used for matters
relating to the internal operation and functions of the city and to appoint or
remove or approve appointment or removal of members of boards, commissions and
other agencies over which the city has control.
(KRS 83A.060(13)) (1997 Code, § 32.46)
§ 32.42 PROVED BY CLERK; RECEIVED IN EVIDENCE.
   All ordinances and orders of the city may be proved by the signature of the
City Clerk; and, when the ordinances are placed in this code of ordinances by
authority of the city, the printed copy shall be received in evidence by any
state court without further proof of the ordinances.
(KRS 83A.060(14)) (1997 Code, § 32.47)
§ 32.43 LEGISLATIVE IMMUNITY.
   For anything said in debate, Council members shall be entitled to the same
immunities and protections allowed to members of the General Assembly.
(KRS 83A.060(15)) (1997 Code, § 32.48)
Statutory reference:
   Privileges of members of General Assembly, see KRS 6.050 and Ky. Const. § 43
CHAPTER 33: ORGANIZATIONS
Section
Departments, Boards and Commissions
   
33.01   Joint Code Enforcement Board
Committees
   
33.15   City Hall Committee
   
33.16   Law Committee
   
33.17   License Committee
   
33.18   Parks and Playgrounds Committee
   
33.19   Road and Light Committee
   
33.20   Ways and Means Committee
   
33.21   Insurance Committee
DEPARTMENTS, BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS
§ 33.01 JOINT CODE ENFORCEMENT BOARD.
   The city’s Code Enforcement Board be and is hereby eliminated as of the
effective date of this section and, in its place, the city joins the Joint Code
Enforcement Board of Planning and Development Services of Kenton County and all
powers and duties of the city’s Code Enforcement Board be and are hereby
assigned and transferred to the Joint Code Enforcement Board.
(Ord. 8-1-18, passed 8-8-2018)
COMMITTEES
§ 33.15 CITY HALL COMMITTEE.
   (A)   The City Hall Committee is hereby established as a standing committee
of City Council. The Council member or members comprising this Committee shall
be appointed by the Mayor.
   (B)   The City Hall Committee shall advise City Council concerning the
maintenance, supervision and use of City Hall.
(1997 Code, § 32.60) (Ord. 7-1-11, passed 8-3-2011)
§ 33.16 LAW COMMITTEE.
   (A)   The Law Committee is hereby established as a standing committee of
City Council. The Council member or members comprising this Committee shall be
appointed by the Mayor.
   (B)   The Law Committee shall act as the liaison between City Council and
the City Attorney and between the City Council and the Police Department and
shall advise the Council in all ordinary legal matters.
(1997 Code, § 32.61) (Ord. 7-1-11, passed 8-3-2011)
§ 33.17 LICENSE COMMITTEE.
   (A)   The License Committee is hereby established as a standing committee of
City Council. The Council member or members comprising this Committee shall be
appointed by the Mayor.
   (B)   The License Committee shall advise Council as to all licensing
procedures and fees provided for by the city.
(1997 Code, § 32.62) (Ord. 7-1-11, passed 8-3-2011)
§ 33.18 PARKS AND PLAYGROUNDS COMMITTEE.
   (A)   The Parks and Playgrounds Committee is hereby established as a
standing committee of City Council. The Council member or members comprising
this Committee shall be appointed by the Mayor.
   (B)   The Parks and Playgrounds Committee shall advise Council as set forth
in §
95.21 of this code of ordinances.
(1997 Code, § 32.63) (Ord. 7-1-11, passed 8-3-2011)
§ 33.19 ROAD AND LIGHT COMMITTEE.
   (A)   The Road and Light Committee is hereby established as a standing
committee of City Council. The Council member or members comprising this
Committee shall be appointed by the Mayor.
   (B)   The Road and Light Committee shall advise Council concerning all
public ways within the city, the supply of light service to the city and such
needed equipment as light poles, light bulbs and the like.
(1997 Code, § 32.64) (Ord. 7-1-11, passed 8-3-2011)
§ 33.20 WAYS AND MEANS COMMITTEE.
   (A)   The Ways and Means Committee is hereby established as a standing
Committee of City Council. The Council member or members comprising this
Committee shall be appointed by the Mayor.
   (B)   For provisions concerning the duties of the Ways and Means Committee,
see §§
34.40 through
34.46 of this code of ordinances.
(1997 Code, § 32.66) (Ord. 7-1-11, passed 8-3-2011)
§ 33.21 INSURANCE COMMITTEE.
   (A)   The Insurance Committee is hereby established as a standing Committee
of City Council. The Council member or members comprising this Committee shall
be appointed by the Mayor.
   (B)   The duties of the Insurance Committee shall be to review and evaluate
the city’s insurance coverage and then to advise Council as to how to obtain
the most reasonable rates possible.
(1997 Code, § 32.67) (Ord. 7-1-11, passed 8-3-2011)
CHAPTER 34: FINANCE AND REVENUE; TAXATION
Section
Financial Administration
   
34.01   Definitions
   
34.02   Accounting records and financial reports
   
34.03   Annual audit of city funds
   
34.04   Official depositories; disbursement of city funds
   
34.05   Capital asset depreciation policy
   
34.06   Collection of taxes
Improvements
   
34.20   Definitions
   
34.21   Financing of improvements
   
34.22   Apportionment of cost
   
34.23   Comprehensive report required
   
34.24   Public hearing required
   
34.25   Adoption of ordinance; notice to affected owners
   
34.26   Affected owner may contest
   
34.27   When city may proceed; assessment constitutes lien
   
34.28   Effect of additional property or change in financing
Annual Budget Procedures
   
34.40   Definitions
   
34.41   Purpose; powers and duties
   
34.42   Fiscal year
   
34.43   Procedure for adoption
   
34.44   Contents and form of budget
   
34.45   Administration
   
34.46   Emergency appropriations and borrowing
Funds
   
34.55   Capital Improvement Fund
 
   
34.99   Penalty
FINANCIAL ADMINISTRATION
§ 34.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUDGET. A proposed plan for raising and spending money for specified
programs, functions, activities or objectives during a fiscal year.
   DEBT SERVICE. The sum of money required to pay installments of principal and
interest on bonds, notes and other evidences of debt accruing within a fiscal
year, and to maintain sinking funds.
   ENCUMBRANCES. Obligations in the form of purchase orders or contracts that
are chargeable to an appropriation. An obligation ceases to be an ENCUMBRANCE
when paid or when the actual liability is recorded.
   FISCAL YEAR. The accounting period for the administration of fiscal
operations.
   GENERALLY ACCEPTED GOVERNMENTAL AUDITING STANDARDS. Those standards for
audit of governmental organizations, programs, activities and functions issued
by the Comptroller General of the United States.
   GENERALLY ACCEPTED PRINCIPLES OF GOVERNMENTAL ACCOUNTING. Those standards
and procedures promulgated and recognized by the Governmental Accounting
Standards Board.
(KRS 91A.010) (1997 Code, § 33.01)
§ 34.02 ACCOUNTING RECORDS AND FINANCIAL REPORTS.
   (A)   The city shall keep its accounting records and render financial
reports in such a way as to:
      (1)   Determine compliance with statutory provisions; and
      (2)   Determine fairly and with full disclosure the financial operations
of constituent funds and account groups of the city in conformity with
generally accepted governmental accounting principles.
   (B)   The municipal accounting system shall be organized and operated on a
fund basis.
(KRS 91A.020) (1997 Code, § 33.02)
§ 34.03 ANNUAL AUDIT OF CITY FUNDS.
    (A)   Except as provided in divisions (B) to (D) below, each city shall,
after the close of each fiscal year, cause each fund of the city to be audited
by the Auditor of Public Accounts or a certified public accountant. The audit
shall be completed by March 1 immediately following the fiscal year being
audited. The city shall forward an electronic copy of the audit report to the
Department for Local Government for information purposes by no later than April
1 immediately following the fiscal year being audited.
   (B)   In lieu of the annual audit requirements in division (A) above, a city
with a population equal to or less than 1,000 based upon the most recent
federal decennial census may elect to have an audit performed every other
fiscal year in the following manner.
      (1)   After the close of each odd-numbered fiscal year, the city shall
for that odd-numbered year cause each fund of the city to be audited by the
Auditor of Public Accounts or a certified public accountant. The audits shall
be completed by March 1 immediately following the fiscal year to be audited.
The city shall forward an electronic copy of the audit report to the Department
for Local Government for information purposes by no later than April 1
immediately following the fiscal year being audited.
      (2)   After the close of each even-numbered fiscal year, the city shall
not be required to complete an annual audit, but shall forward an electronic
copy of its financial statement prepared in accordance with KRS 424.220 to the
Department for Local Government by no later than October 1 immediately
following the close of the even-numbered fiscal year.
   (C)   In lieu of the annual audit requirements in division (A) above, a city
with a population of more than 1,000, but less than 2,000, based upon the most
recent federal decennial census may elect to have an audit performed every
other fiscal year to cover the two fiscal years occurring since the prior audit
in the following manner.
      (1)   After the close of each odd-numbered fiscal year, the city shall
cause each fund of the city to be audited by the Auditor of Public Accounts or
a certified public accountant. The audit shall include both fiscal years since
the prior audit and shall be completed by March 1 immediately following the
fiscal years to be audited. The city shall forward an electronic copy of the
audit report to the Department for Local Government for information purposes by
no later than April 1 immediately following the fiscal years being audited.
      (2)   After the close of each even-numbered fiscal year, the city shall
not be required to complete an annual audit but shall forward an electronic
copy of its financial statement prepared in accordance with KRS 424.220 to the
Department for Local Government by no later than October 1 immediately
following the close of the even-numbered fiscal year.
   (D)   Any city, which for any fiscal year receives and expends, from all
sources and for all purposes, less than $150,000, and which has no long-term
debt, whether general obligation or revenue debt, shall not be required to
audit each fund of the city for that particular fiscal year. In addition, each
city exempted in accordance with this division (D) shall:
      (1)   Annually prepare a financial statement in accordance with KRS
424.220 and shall, not later than October 1 following the conclusion of the
fiscal year, forward one electronic or paper copy to the Department for Local
Government for information purposes; and
      (2)   If exempted under this division for more than four consecutive
fiscal years after July 1, 2022, have prepared an attestation engagement
covering the fourth fiscal year in which the city qualified for an exemption
under this division. An attestation engagement completed pursuant to this
division shall be:
         (a)   Prepared by an independent certified public accountant or by the
Auditor of Public Accounts pursuant to a contract with the city using generally
accepted attestation standards as promulgated by the American Institute of
Certified Public Accountants and any additional procedures established by the
Department for Local Government through administrative regulation;
         (b)   Completed by no later than March 1 immediately following the
conclusion of the fiscal year in which in the attestation engagement is
required;
         (c)   Submitted to the Department for Local Government as one
electronic copy no later than April 1 after its completion;
         (d)   Advertised to the public within 30 days of its completion by
causing the publication of a legal display advertisement of not less than six
column inches in a newspaper qualified under KRS 424.120 stating that the
attestation has been prepared and copies have been provided to each local
newspaper of general circulation, each news service, and each local radio and
television station which has on file with the city a written request to receive
copies of financial statements under KRS 424.220. Any city advertising under
this division shall be exempt from publishing its financial statement under KRS
424.220(6)(b) for any year in which it is required to have an attestation
engagement completed; and
         (e)   Provided to the Auditor of Public Accounts upon request for
review of the final report and all related work papers and documents regarding
the attestation engagement.
   (E)   If a city is required by another provision of law to audit its funds
more frequently or more stringently than is required by this section, the city
shall also comply with the provisions of that law.
   (F)   Each city required by this section to conduct an annual or biennial
audit shall enter into a written contract with the selected auditor. The
contract shall set forth all terms and conditions of the agreement which shall
include, but not be limited to, requirements that:
      (1)   The auditor be employed to examine the basic financial statements
which shall include the government-wide and fund financial statements;
      (2)   The auditor shall include in the annual or biennial city audit
report an examination of local government economic assistance funds granted to
the city under KRS 42.450 to 42.495. The auditor shall include a certification
with the annual audit or biennial report that the funds were expended for the
purpose intended;
      (3)   All audit information be prepared in accordance with generally
accepted governmental auditing standards which include tests of the accounting
records and auditing procedures considered necessary in the circumstances.
Where the audit is to cover the use of state or federal funds, appropriate
state or federal guidelines shall be utilized;
      (4)   The auditor shall prepare a typewritten or printed report
embodying:
         (a)   The basic financial statements and accompanying supplemental and
required supplemental information;
         (b)   The auditor’s opinion on the basic financial statements or
reasons why an opinion cannot be expressed; and
         (c)   Findings required to be reported as a result of the audit.
      (5)   The completed audit and all accompanying documentation shall be
presented to the City Council at a regular or special meeting; and
      (6)   Any contract with a certified public accountant for an audit shall
require the accountant to forward a copy of the audit report and management
letters to the Auditor of Public Accounts upon request of the city or the
Auditor of Public Accounts, and the Auditor of Public Accounts shall have the
right to review the certified public accountant’s work papers upon request.
   (G)   A copy of an audit report which meets the requirements of this section
shall be considered satisfactory and final in meeting any official request to
the city for financial data, except for statutory or judicial requirements, or
requirements of the Legislative Research Commission necessary to carry out the
purposes of KRS 6.955 to 6.975.
   (H)   Each city shall, within 30 days after the presentation of an audit to
the City Council, publish an advertisement, in accordance with KRS Chapter 424,
containing:
      (1)   The auditor’s opinion letter;
      (2)   The “Budgetary Comparison Schedules - Major Funds”, which shall
include the General Fund and all major funds;
      (3)   A statement that a copy of the complete audit report, including
financial statements and supplemental information, is on file at City Hall and
is available for public inspection during normal business hours;
      (4)   A statement that any citizen may obtain from City Hall a copy of
the complete audit report, including financial statements and supplemental
information, for his or her personal use;
      (5)   A statement which notifies citizens requesting a personal copy of
the city audit report that they will be charged for duplication costs at a rate
that shall not exceed $0.25 per page; and
      (6)   A statement that copies of the financial statement prepared in
accordance with KRS 424.220, when a financial statement is required by KRS
424.220, are available to the public at no cost at the business address of the
officer responsible for preparation of the statement.
   (I)   Any resident of the city or owner of real property within the city may
bring an action in the Circuit Court to enforce the provisions of this section.
   (J)    In the event of extenuating circumstances that prevent a city from
completing and submitting a required audit or financial statement in compliance
with the applicable deadlines in divisions (A) to (D) above, the city may
submit a written request for an extension of time to the Department for Local
Government on a form prescribed by the Department for Local Government. The
Department for Local Government shall approve the request if it is submitted on
or before the applicable deadline and, in the judgment of the Department for
Local Government, the request is warranted by extenuating circumstances beyond
the control of the city. Extensions granted under this division shall not
exceed nine months from the original due date of the audit or financial
statement. If the Department for Local Government approves an extension for a
city and the city fails to complete and submit the required audit or financial
statement in compliance with that extended deadline, then the provisions of
division (K) below shall apply.
   (K)   If a city fails to complete an audit or financial statement and submit
it to the Department for Local Government as required in divisions (A) to (D)
and (J) above, the Department for Local Government shall notify the Finance and
Administration Cabinet that the city has failed to comply with the audit
requirements of this section, and that any funds in the possession of any
agency, entity or branch of state government shall be withheld from the city
until further notice. The Department for Local Government shall immediately
notify the Finance and Administration Cabinet when the city complies with the
requirements of divisions (A) to (D) and (J) above for all prior fiscal years
it has failed to comply with the audit requirements of this section, and the
Finance and Administration Cabinet shall direct the reinstatement of payments
to the city, including any funds that were withheld due to the non-compliance.
   (L)   Within a reasonable time after the completion of a special audit or
examination conducted pursuant to KRS 43.050, the Auditor shall bill the city
for the actual expense of the audit or examination conducted. The actual
expense shall include the hours of work performed on the audit or examination
as well as reasonable associated costs, including, but not limited to, travel
costs. The bill submitted to the city shall include a statement of the hourly
rate, total hours and total costs for the entire audit or examination.
(KRS 91A.040) (1997 Code, § 33.04)
Statutory reference:
   Department for Local Government to provide assistance, see KRS 91A.050
§ 34.04 OFFICIAL DEPOSITORIES; DISBURSEMENT OF CITY FUNDS.
   (A)   The Mayor shall designate as the city’s official depositories one or
more banks, federally insured savings and loan companies or trust companies
within the commonwealth. The amount of funds on deposit in an official
depository shall be fully insured by deposit insurance or collateralized in
accordance with 12 U.S.C. § 1823, to the extent uninsured, by any obligations,
including surety bonds permitted by KRS 41.240(4).
   (B)   All receipts from any source of city money or money for which the city
is responsible, which has not been otherwise invested or deposited in a manner
authorized by law, shall be deposited in official depositories. All city funds
shall be disbursed by written authorization approved by the Mayor which states
the name of the person to whom funds are payable, the purpose of the payment,
and the fund out of which the funds are payable. Each authorization shall be
numbered and recorded.
(KRS 91A.060) (1997 Code, § 33.05)
§ 34.05 CAPITAL ASSET DEPRECIATION POLICY.
   The city’s capital asset depreciation policy is adopted by reference and
incorporated herein as if set out in full.
(Order 12-1-19, passed 12-4-2019)
§ 34.06 COLLECTION OF TAXES.
   (A)   That beginning with the fiscal year 2019-2020, all ad valorem taxes
due to the City of Bromley as established by ordinance, including road taxes
and emergency service taxes previously approved and imposed, shall be collected
by the Kenton County Sheriff pursuant to KRS 91A.070(1).
   (B)   Pursuant to KRS 91A.070(1) the Kenton County Sheriff is authorized to
use any and all methods permitted and available by law to collect all City of
Bromley ad valorem taxes. All procedures utilized by the Sheriff for collection
of county and other taxes are hereby adopted and approved by the City of
Bromley to permit the Sheriff to collect the City of Bromley ad valorem taxes.
   (C)   The Mayor of the City of Bromley is hereby authorized by the city to
execute any and all documents necessary to effectuate the terms of this section
and to otherwise act on behalf of the City of Bromley to accomplish the intent
of this section.
(Ord. 6-1-19, passed 6-12-2019)
IMPROVEMENTS
§ 34.20 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ASSESSED VALUE BASIS. The apportionment of cost of an improvement according
to the ratio the assessed value of individual parcels of property bears to the
total assessed value of all the properties.
   BENEFITS RECEIVED BASIS. The apportionment of cost of an improvement
according to equitable determination by Council of the special benefit received
by property from the improvement, including assessed value basis, front foot
basis and square foot basis, or any combination thereof, and may include
consideration of assessed value of land only, graduation for different classes
of property based on nature and extent of special benefits received, and other
factors affecting benefits received.
   COST. All costs related to an improvement, including planning, design,
property or easement acquisition and construction costs, fiscal and legal fees,
financing costs and publication expenses.
   FAIR BASIS. Assessed value basis, front foot basis, square foot basis or
benefits received basis.
   FRONT FOOT BASIS. The apportionment of cost of an improvement according to
the ratio the front footage on the improvement of individual parcels of
property bears to the front footage of all the properties.
   IMPROVEMENT. Construction of any facility for public use or services or any
addition thereto, which is of special benefit to specific properties in the
area served by the facility.
   PROPERTY. Any real property benefitted by an improvement.
   SPECIAL ASSESSMENT or ASSESSMENT. A special charge fixed on property to
finance an improvement in whole or in part.
   SQUARE FOOT BASIS. The apportionment of cost of an improvement according to
the ratio the square footage of individual parcels of property bears to the
square footage of all the property.
(KRS 91A.210) (1997 Code, § 33.10)
§ 34.21 FINANCING OF IMPROVEMENTS.
   (A)   The city may not finance any improvement in whole or in part through
special assessments, except as provided in this subchapter and in any
applicable statutes.
(KRS 91A.200)
   (B)   Cost of an improvement shall be apportioned equitably on a fair basis.
   (C)   The city may provide for lump sum or installment payment of
assessments or for bond or other long-term financing, and for any improvement
may afford property owners the option as to method of payment or financing.
(KRS 91A.220) (1997 Code, § 33.11)
Statutory reference:
   Improvements; alternate methods, see KRS Chapter 107
§ 34.22 APPORTIONMENT OF COST.
   The cost of any improvement shall be apportioned on a benefits received
basis with respect to any property owned by the state, a local unit of
government or any educational, religious or charitable organization. Council
may assess the property in the same manner as for privately owned property or
it may pay the costs so apportioned out of general revenues.
(KRS 91A.230) (1997 Code, § 33.12)
§ 34.23 COMPREHENSIVE REPORT REQUIRED.
   Before undertaking any improvements pursuant to this subchapter, the city
shall prepare a comprehensive report setting out:
   (A)   The nature of the improvement;
   (B)   The scope and the extent of the improvement, including the boundaries
or other description of the area to be assessed;
   (C)   The preliminary estimated cost of the improvement;
   (D)   The fair basis of assessment proposed;
   (E)   If financing of assessments is provided, the proposed method,
including the proposed years to maturity of any bonds to be issued in
connection with the improvement; and
   (F)   Such other information as may further explain material aspects of the
improvement, assessments or financing.
(KRS 91A.240) (1997 Code, § 33.13)
§ 34.24 PUBLIC HEARING REQUIRED.
   After preparation of the report required by §
34.23 of this chapter, the city shall hold at least one public hearing on the
proposed improvement at which all interested persons shall be heard. Notice of
the hearing shall be published pursuant to KRS Chapter 424, and mailed to each
affected property owner by certified mail, return receipt requested, and shall
include:
   (A)   The nature of the improvement;
   (B)   Description of area of the improvement;
   (C)   Statement that the city proposes to finance the improvement in whole
or in part by special assessment of property and the method to be used;
   (D)   Time and place the report may be examined; and
   (E)   Time and place of the hearing.
(KRS 91A.250) (1997 Code, § 33.14)
§ 34.25 ADOPTION OF ORDINANCE; NOTICE TO AFFECTED OWNERS.
   (A)   Within 90 days of conclusion of the hearing, the city shall determine
whether to proceed with the improvement by special assessments, and if it
determines to proceed shall adopt an ordinance so stating and containing all
necessary terms, including the items referred to in §
34.28 of this chapter and a description of all properties.
   (B)   Promptly upon passage, the city shall publish the ordinance pursuant
to KRS Chapter 424 and shall mail by certified mail to each affected property
owner a notice of determination to proceed with the project, the fair basis of
assessment to be utilized, the estimated cost to the property owner and the
ratio the cost to each property owner bears to the total cost of the entire
project.
(KRS 91A.260) (1997 Code, § 33.15)
§ 34.26 AFFECTED OWNER MAY CONTEST.
   (A)   Within 30 days of the mailing of the notice provided for in §
34.25 of this chapter, any affected property owner may file an action in the
circuit court of the county, contesting the undertaking of the project by
special assessment, the inclusion of his or her property in the improvement or
the amount of his or her assessment. If the action contests the undertaking of
the improvement by the special assessment method of the inclusion of the
property of that property owner, no further action on the improvement insofar
as it relates to any property owner who is a plaintiff shall be taken until the
final judgment has been entered.
   (B)   The city may proceed with the improvement with respect to any
properties whose owners have not filed or joined in an action as provided in
this section or who have contested only the amounts of their assessments, and
the provisions of the resolution shall be final and binding with respect to the
property owners, except as to contested amounts of assessments. After the lapse
of time as herein provided, all actions by owners of properties are forever
barred.
(KRS 91A.270) (1997 Code, § 33.16)
§ 34.27 WHEN CITY MAY PROCEED; ASSESSMENT CONSTITUTES LIEN.
   (A)   After the passage of time for the action provided for in §
34.26 of this chapter, or after favorable final judgment in the action,
whichever comes later, the city may proceed with the improvement or part
thereof stayed by the action, including notice requiring payment of special
assessment or installment thereon and bonds or other method proposed to finance
the improvement. The first installment may be apportioned so that other
payments will coincide with payment of ad valorem taxes.
   (B)   The amount of any outstanding assessment or installments thereof on
any property, and accrued interest and other charges, constitutes a lien on the
property to secure payment to the bondholders or any other source of financing
of the improvement. The lien takes precedence over all other liens, whether
created prior to or subsequent to the publication of the ordinance, except a
lien for state and county taxes, general municipal taxes and prior improvement
taxes and is not defeated or postponed by any private or judicial sale, by any
mortgage or by any error or mistake in the description of the property or in
the names of the owners. No error in the proceedings of the Council shall
exempt any benefitted property from the lien for the improvement assessment,
from payment thereof or from the penalties or interest thereon, as herein
provided.
(KRS 91A.280) (1997 Code, § 33.17)
§ 34.28 EFFECT OF ADDITIONAL PROPERTY OR CHANGE IN FINANCING.
   The city may undertake any further proceedings to carry out the improvement
or any extension or refinancing thereof; except that, §§
34.23 through
34.27 of this chapter apply if additional property is included in the
improvement or if change is made in the method or period of financing; but
additional property may be included in the improvement with the consent of the
owner thereof without compliance with other sections if it does not increase
the cost apportioned to any other property, or any other change may be made
without this compliance, if all property owners of the improvement consent.
(KRS 91A.290) (1997 Code, § 33.18)
ANNUAL BUDGET PROCEDURES
§ 34.40 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUDGET OFFICER. The Mayor.
   BUDGET YEAR. The fiscal year for which a budget is made.
   CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER. The City Treasurer, unless that office is vacant,
and if that office is vacant, the city’s retained accounting consultant.
   CURRENT YEAR. The fiscal year in which a budget is prepared and adopted;
that is, the fiscal year next preceding the budget year.
   PREVIOUS YEAR. The last complete fiscal year before the current year.
(1997 Code, § 33.25) (Ord. 5-3-1978, passed 9-5-1978; Ord. 4-2-21, passed 5-5-
2021)
§ 34.41 PURPOSE; POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   The purpose of this subchapter is to adopt rules governing the City
Council in its proceedings for administering the financial affairs of the city,
and to establish a standard procedure for the making and administration of
budgets, to place responsibility for the tasks related to budget preparation
and administration, the determination of the amount of taxes and other revenues
in such manner that budgets may be balanced on the basis of actual cash
receipts within the budget period, the establishment of appropriations, the
payment of debt and the control of other expenditures. Its provisions are
intended to enable the Council to make financial plans for both current and
capital expenditures, and to permit taxpayers and investors to form intelligent
opinions based on sufficient information as to the financial policies and
administration of the city. For the accomplishment of this purpose, the
provisions of this subchapter shall be broadly construed, and shall be in
effect until repealed or amended by a majority vote of the Council in the same
manner as required by state law.
   (B)   Within the provisions and for the purpose of this subchapter, officers
and employees shall have the power and be subject to the duties expressly
stated or necessarily implied.
(1997 Code, § 33.26) (Ord. 5-3-1978, passed 9-5-1978)
Statutory reference:
   Annual budget ordinance, see KRS 91A.030
§ 34.42 FISCAL YEAR.
   The fiscal year shall begin on July 1 of each year, in accordance with
Kentucky Constitution § 169.
(1997 Code, § 33.27) (Ord. 5-3-1978, passed 9-5-1978)
§ 34.43 PROCEDURE FOR ADOPTION.
   (A)   Preparation and submission of budget. The Budget Officer, after review
by the City Council Ways and Means Committee, shall submit to the Council a
budget and an explanatory budget message. The budget shall include the
following:
      (1)   Organization units within the department or agency;
      (2)   Object of expenditure:
         (a)   Personal services;
         (b)   Contractual services;
         (c)   Materials and supplies;
         (d)   Other expenses; and
         (e)   Capital outlay.
      (3)   Such other supporting data as necessary.
   (B)   Adoption of budget. The budget shall be adopted by the favorable votes
of at least a majority of all the members of the governing body.
   (C)   Effective date of budget; certification; copies. Upon final adoption,
the budget shall be in effect for the budget year. A copy of the budget, as
finally adopted, shall be certified by the Budget Officer and the Clerk and
filed in the office of the Chief Financial Officer. The budget, so certified,
shall be printed or otherwise reproduced and sufficient copies thereof shall be
made available for the use of all offices, departments and agencies, and for
the use of interested persons and civic organizations. A summary shall be
published in accordance with KRS 424.240.
   (D)   Budget established appropriations. From the effective date of the
budget, the several amounts stated therein as proposed expenditures shall be
and become appropriated to the several objects and purposes therein named.
(1997 Code, § 33.28) (Ord. 5-3-1978, passed 9-5-1978)
§ 34.44 CONTENTS AND FORM OF BUDGET.
   (A)   Budget.
      (1)   The budget shall provide a complete program and financial plan for
all General Fund revenues for the budget year. It shall contain in tabular
form:
         (a)   A general summary;
         (b)   Detailed estimates of all anticipated revenues applicable to
proposed expenditures; and
         (c)   All proposed expenditures.
      (2)   The total of such anticipated revenues shall equal the total of
such proposed expenditures.
   (B)   Proposed expenditures. The proposed expenditures shall be itemized as
set out in §
34.43(A) of this chapter and each item numbered generally in accordance with
the classification system recommended in the Kentucky Municipal Accounting
Manual. Separate provision shall be included in the budget for at least:
      (1)   Administration, operation and maintenance of each office,
department or agency of the city supported by the General Fund;
      (2)   Contingent expense in an amount not more than 5% of the total
revenue estimated for the budget year; and
      (3)   Expenditures proposed for capital projects.
   (C)   Budget summary. At the head of the budget, there shall appear a
summary of the budget, which need not be itemized further than by principal
sources of anticipated revenue, stating separately the amount to be raised by
property tax, and by departments and kinds of expenditures, in such a manner as
to present to taxpayers a simple and clear summary of the detailed estimates of
the budget.
(1997 Code, § 33.29) (Ord. 5-3-1978, passed 9-5-1978)
§ 34.45 ADMINISTRATION.
   (A)   Approval of expenditures.
      (1)   The Chief Financial Officer shall have charge of the administration
of the financial affairs of the city and, to that end, shall supervise and be
responsible for the disbursement of all moneys and have control over all
expenditures to insure that appropriations are not exceeded. He or she shall
exercise financial budgetary control over each office, department and agency
and shall cause separate accounts to be kept for the items of appropriation
contained in the budget, each of which accounts shall show the amount of the
appropriation, the amounts paid therefrom and the unencumbered balance.
      (2)   The same classification and numbering system used in the budget and
required by §
34.44(B) of this chapter shall be used. Unless the Chief Financial Officer
shall certify that there is sufficient unencumbered balance available, no
expenditure shall be made.
   (B)   Transfers of appropriations. The Financial Officer may at any time
transfer any unencumbered appropriation balance or portion thereof between
general classifications of expenditures within a departmental unit. At the
request of the Budget Officer, the Council may, by resolution, transfer any
unencumbered appropriation balance or portion thereof from one departmental
unit to another.
   (C)   When contracts and expenditures prohibited. No office, department or
agency shall, during any budget year, expend or contract to expend any money or
incur any liability or enter into any contract which, by its terms, involves
the expenditure of money for any purpose in excess of the amounts appropriated
for that general classification of expenditure pursuant to this subchapter. Any
contract, verbal or written, made in violation of this subchapter shall be null
and void.
   (D)   Appropriations lapse at end of year. All appropriations shall lapse at
the end of the budget year to the extent that they shall not have been expended
or lawfully encumbered.
(1997 Code, § 33.30) (Ord. 5-3-1978, passed 9-5-1978)
§ 34.46 EMERGENCY APPROPRIATIONS AND BORROWING.
   (A)   Emergency appropriations.
      (1)   At any time in any budget year, the City Council may, pursuant to
this section, make emergency appropriations to meet a pressing need for public
expenditure, for other than a regular or recurring requirement, to protect the
public health, safety or welfare.
      (2)   Such appropriation shall be by ordinance adopted by the favorable
votes of at least a majority of the members of the City Council. The total
amount of all emergency appropriations made in any budget year shall not exceed
the amount of unanticipated actual revenue in excess of the budget estimates,
plus transfers from other appropriations.
   (B)   Borrowing in anticipation of taxes. In any budget year in anticipation
of the collection of the revenues for the budget year, but not in excess of 50%
of such revenue then uncollected, the City Council may by resolution borrow
money and issue negotiable notes of the city.
(1997 Code, § 33.31) (Ord. 5-3-1978, passed 9-5-1978)
FUNDS
§ 34.55 CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT FUND.
   There is hereby established a Capital Improvement Fund of the City of
Bromley, Kentucky. The Capital Improvement Fund shall be used for the purchase
of equipment, vehicles, park and playground equipment and machinery, and other
long-lasting goods that are not consumed in the normal course of business, and
the construction, installation, repair, renovation, or maintenance of public
buildings or structures. The Capital Improvement Fund shall not be used to pay
salaries of any public officials or employees or to purchase real property. Any
expenditure made from the Fund must be based on the written recommendation of
the Mayor and approved by City Council in the budget for the Fund. Expenditures
from the Capital Improvement Fund shall be made in accordance with the City of
Bromley Capital Improvement Plan and Policies attached to Ord. 4-3-22 and
incorporated herein by reference.
(Ord. 4-3-22, passed 5-11-2022)
§ 34.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person who violates any provision of §
34.03 of this chapter shall be fined not less than $50, nor more than $500. In
addition, any officer who fails to comply with any of the provisions of §
34.03 of this chapter shall, for each failure, be subject to a forfeiture of
not less than $50, nor more than $500, in the discretion of the court, which
may be recovered only once in a civil action brought by any resident of the
city or owner of real property within the city. The costs of all proceedings,
including a reasonable fee for the attorney of the resident bringing the
action, shall be assessed against the unsuccessful party.
(1997 Code, § 33.04)
CHAPTER 35: PUBLIC RECORDS
Section
General Provisions
   
35.01   Definitions
Procedures for Requesting Public Records
   
35.15   Initial request with immediate inspection
   
35.16   Referral to proper custodian
   
35.17   Public records not immediately available
   
35.18   Refusal of unreasonable requests
   
35.19   Time limitation; denial of inspection
   
35.20   Concealing or destroying records prohibited
   
35.21   Access to records relating to particular individual
   
35.22   Format of copies
   
35.23   Fees for copies
   
35.24   Misstatement of purpose prohibited
   
35.25   Online access to public records in electronic form
   
35.26   Public records protected from disclosure
   
35.27   Notification of the Attorney General
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 35.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BOOKING PHOTOGRAPH AND PHOTOGRAPHIC RECORD OF INMATE. A photograph or image
of an individual generated by law enforcement for identification purposes when
the individual is booked into a detention facility as defined in KRS 520.010 or
photograph and image of an inmate taken pursuant to KRS 196.099.
(KRS 61.870(9))
   CITY. The city government of Bromley.
   COMMERCIAL PURPOSE. The direct or indirect use of any part of a public
record or records, in any form, for sale, resale, solicitation, rent or lease
of a service, or any use by which the user expects a profit either through
commission, salary or fee. COMMERCIAL PURPOSE shall not include:
      (1)   Publication or related use of a public record by a newspaper or
periodical;
      (2)   Use of a public record by a radio or television station in its news
or other informational programs; or
      (3)   Use of a public record in the preparation for prosecution or
defense of litigation, or claims settlement by the parties to the action, or
the attorneys representing the parties.
(KRS 61.870(4))
   CUSTODIAN.
      (1)   The official custodian or any authorized person having personal
custody and control of public records.
(KRS 61.870(6))
      (2)   The CUSTODIAN having personal custody of most of the public records
of this city is the City Clerk.
   MECHANICAL PROCESSING. Any operation or other procedure which is transacted
on a machine, and which may include, but is not limited to a copier, computer,
recorder or tape processor or other automated device.
(KRS 61.870(8))
   MEDIA. The physical material in or on which records may be stored or
represented, and which may include, but is not limited to, paper, microform,
disks, diskettes, optical disks, magnetic tapes and cards.
(KRS 61.870(7))
   OFFICIAL CUSTODIAN.
      (1)   The chief administrative officer or any other officer or employee
of a public agency who is responsible for the maintenance, care and keeping of
public records, regardless of whether the records are in his or her actual
personal custody and control.
(KRS 61.870(5))
      (2)   The OFFICIAL CUSTODIAN of this city shall be the Mayor.
   PERSON. A human being who makes a request for inspection of public records.
   PRESCRIBED FEE or FEE. The fair payment required by the city for making
copies of public records and for mailing public records, which shall not exceed
the actual cost thereof and shall not include the cost of required staff time.
   PUBLIC AGENCY.
      (1)   Every state or local government officer;
      (2)   Every state or local government department, division, bureau,
board, commission and authority;
      (3)   Every state or local legislative board, commission, committee and
officer;
      (4)   Every county and city governing body, council, school district
board, special district board and municipal corporation;
      (5)   Every state or local court or judicial agency;
      (6)   Every state or local government agency, including the policy-making
board of an institution of education, created by or pursuant to state or local
statute, executive order, ordinance, resolution or other legislative act;
      (7)   Any body created by state or local authority in any branch of
government;
      (8)   Any body which, within any fiscal year, derives at least 25% of its
funds expended by it in the commonwealth from state or local authority funds.
However, any funds derived from a state or local authority in compensation for
goods or services that are provided by a contract obtained through a
competitive procurement process shall not be included in the determination of
whether a body is a public agency under this division (8);
      (9)   Any entity where the majority of its governing body is appointed by
a public agency as defined in this division; by a member or employee of the
public agency; or by any combination thereof;
      (10)   Any board, commission, committee, subcommittee, ad hoc committee,
advisory committee, council or agency, except for a committee of a hospital
medical staff, established, created and controlled by a public agency as
defined in this division (10); and
      (11)   Any interagency body of two or more public agencies where each
public agency is defined in this division (11).
(KRS 61.870(1))
   PUBLIC RECORD. All books, papers, maps, photographs, cards, tapes, discs,
diskettes, recordings, software or other documentation regardless of physical
form or characteristics, which are prepared, owned, used, in the possession of
or retained by the public agency. PUBLIC RECORD shall not include any records
owned or maintained by or for a body discussed in division (8) of the
definition of PUBLIC AGENCY, above that are not related to functions,
activities, programs or operations funded by state or local authority.
(KRS 61.870(2))
   REQUEST. An oral or written application by any person to inspect public
records of the agency.
   SOFTWARE. The program code which makes a computer system function, but does
not include that portion of the program code which contains public records
exempted from inspection as provided by KRS 61.878 or specific addresses of
files, passwords, access codes, user identifications or any other mechanism for
controlling the security or restricting access to public records in the public
agency’s computer system. SOFTWARE consists of the operating system,
application programs, procedures, routines and subroutines such as translators
and utility programs, but does not include that material which is prohibited
from disclosure or copying by a license agreement between a public agency and
an outside entity which supplied the material to the agency.
(KRS 61.870(3)) (1997 Code, § 35.01)
PROCEDURES FOR REQUESTING PUBLIC RECORDS
§ 35.15 INITIAL REQUEST WITH IMMEDIATE INSPECTION.
   (A)   Any person desiring to inspect or copy the public records of the city
shall make a request for inspection at the office of the City Clerk during
regular office hours, except during legal holidays. The official custodian, or
the custodian acting under the authority of the official custodian, may require
a request to inspect public records to be in writing, signed by the applicant
and with the applicant’s name printed legibly on the application. A written
request to inspect public records may be presented by hand delivery, mail or
via facsimile, if one is available.
   (B)   If the custodian determines that a person’s request is in compliance
with this chapter and the Open Records Law, and the requested public records
are immediately available, the custodian shall deliver the records for
inspection. A person may inspect public records at the designated office of the
city during the regular office hours, or in appropriate cases, by receiving
copies of the records through the mail.
   (C)   If the public records are to be inspected at the offices of the city,
suitable facilities shall be made available in the office of the City Clerk or
in another office of the city as determined by the official custodian or
custodian for the inspection. No person shall remove original copies of public
records from the offices of the city without the written permission of the
official custodian of the record. When public records are inspected at the city
offices, the person inspecting the records shall have the right to make
abstracts and memoranda of the public records and to obtain copies of all
written public records. When copies are requested, the custodian may require
advance payment of the prescribed fee.
   (D)   Upon proper request, the city shall mail copies of the public records
to a person whose residence or principal place of business is located outside
of the county after the person precisely describes the public records which are
readily available and after the person pays in advance the prescribed fee.
(1997 Code, § 35.05)
Statutory reference:
   Right to inspection, limitations, see KRS 61.872(1) - (3)
§ 35.16 REFERRAL TO PROPER CUSTODIAN.
   If the City Clerk does not have custody or control of the public record or
records requested, the City Clerk shall notify the applicant and shall furnish
the name and location of the official custodian of the agency’s public records.
(KRS 61.872(4)) (1997 Code, § 35.06)
§ 35.17 PUBLIC RECORDS NOT IMMEDIATELY AVAILABLE.
    If the public record is in active use, in storage or not otherwise
available, the official custodian shall immediately notify the applicant and
shall designate a place, time and date for inspection or mailing of the public
records, not to exceed five days (excepting Saturdays, Sundays and legal
holidays) from receipt of the application, unless a detailed explanation of the
cause is given for further delay and the place, time and earliest date on which
the public record will be available for inspection or duplication.
(KRS 61.872(5)) (1997 Code, § 35.07)
§ 35.18 REFUSAL OF UNREASONABLE REQUESTS.
   (A)   If the application places an unreasonable burden in producing public
records, or if the custodian has reason to believe that repeated requests are
intended to disrupt other essential functions of the public agency, the
official custodian may refuse to permit inspection of the public records or
mail copies thereof.
   (B)   However, refusal under this section must be sustained by clear and
convincing evidence.
(KRS 61.872(6)) (1997 Code, § 35.08)
§ 35.19 TIME LIMITATION; DENIAL OF INSPECTION.
    Each public agency, upon any request for records made under this chapter,
shall determine within five days (excepting Saturdays, Sundays and legal
holidays) after the receipt of any request whether to comply with the request
and shall notify in writing the person making the request within the five-day
period of its decision. Any agency response denying, in whole or in part,
inspection of any record shall include a statement of the specific exception
authorizing the withholding of the record and a brief explanation of how the
exception applies to the record withheld. The response shall be issued by the
official custodian or under his or her authority and shall constitute final
agency action.
(KRS 61.880(1)) (1997 Code, § 35.09)
§ 35.20 CONCEALING OR DESTROYING RECORDS PROHIBITED.
   No official of the city shall willfully conceal or destroy any record with
the intent to violate the provisions of this chapter or these rules and
regulations.
(1997 Code, § 35.10)
§ 35.21 ACCESS TO RECORDS RELATING TO PARTICULAR INDIVIDUAL.
   Any person shall have access to any public record relating to him or her or
in which he or she is mentioned by name, upon presentation of appropriate
identification, subject to the provisions of §
35.26 of this chapter.
(KRS 61.884) (1997 Code, § 35.11)
§ 35.22 FORMAT OF COPIES.
   (A)   Upon inspection, the applicant shall have the right to make abstracts
of the public records and memoranda thereof, and to obtain copies of all public
records not exempted by the terms of §
35.26 of this chapter. When copies are requested, the custodian may require a
written request and advance payment of the prescribed fee, including postage
where appropriate. If the applicant desires copies of public records other than
written records, the custodian of the records shall duplicate the records or
permit the applicant to duplicate the records; however, the custodian shall
ensure that the duplication will not damage or alter the original records.
(KRS 61.874(1))
   (B)   (1)   Non-exempt public records used for non-commercial purposes shall
be available for copying in either standard electronic or standard hard copy
format, as designated by the party requesting the records, where the agency
currently maintains the records in electronic format. Non-exempt public records
used for non-commercial purposes shall be copied in standard hard copy format
where agencies currently maintain records in hard copy format. Agencies are not
required to convert hard copy format records to electronic formats.
      (2)   The minimum standard format in paper form shall be defined as not
less than eight and one-half inches by 11 inches in at least one color on white
paper, or for electronic format, in a flat file electronic American Standard
Code for Information Interchange (ASCII) format. If the public agency maintains
electronic public records in a format other than ASCII, and the format conforms
to the requestor’s requirements, the public record may be provided in this
alternate electronic format for standard fees as specified by the public
agency. Any request for a public record in a form other than the forms
described in this section shall be considered a non-standardized request.
(KRS 61.874(2)) (1997 Code, § 35.12)
§ 35.23 FEES FOR COPIES.
   (A)   Non-commercial purposes. The public agency may prescribe a reasonable
fee for making copies of non-exempt public records requested for use for non-
commercial purposes which shall not exceed the actual cost of reproduction,
including the costs of the media and any mechanical processing cost incurred by
the public agency, but not including the cost of staff required. If a public
agency is asked to produce a record in a non-standardized format, or to tailor
the format to meet the request of an individual or a group, the public agency
may at its discretion provide the requested format and recover staff costs as
well as any actual costs incurred.
(KRS 61.874(3))
   (B)   Commercial purposes.
      (1)   Unless an enactment of the General Assembly prohibits the
disclosure of public records to persons who intend to use them for commercial
purposes, if copies of non-exempt public records are requested for commercial
purposes, the public agency may establish a reasonable fee.
      (2)   The public agency from which copies of non-exempt public records
are requested for a commercial purpose may require a certified statement from
the requestor stating the commercial purpose for which they shall be used, and
may require the requestor to enter into a contract with the agency. The
contract shall permit use of the public records for the stated commercial
purpose for a specified fee.
      (3)   The fee provided for in division (B)(1) above may be based on one
or both of the following:
         (a)   Cost to the public agency of media, mechanical processing and
staff required to produce a copy of the public record or records; and
         (b)   Cost to the public agency of the creation, purchase or other
acquisition of the public records.
(KRS 61.874(4)) (1997 Code, § 35.13)
§ 35.24 MISSTATEMENT OF PURPOSE PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for a person to obtain a copy of any part of a public
record for a:
   (A)   Commercial purpose, without stating the commercial purpose, if a
certified statement from the requestor was required by the public agency
pursuant to §
35.23(B)(2) of this chapter;
   (B)   Commercial purpose, if the person uses or knowingly allows the use of
the public record for a different commercial purpose; or
   (C)   Non-commercial purpose, if the person uses or knowingly allows the use
of the public record for a commercial purpose. A newspaper, periodical, radio
or television station shall not be held to have used or knowingly allowed the
use of the public record for a commercial purpose merely because of its
publication or broadcast, unless it has also given its express permission for
that commercial use.
(KRS 61.874(5)) (1997 Code, § 35.14) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 35.25 ONLINE ACCESS TO PUBLIC RECORDS IN ELECTRONIC FORM.
   (A)   Online access to public records in electronic form may be provided and
made available at the discretion of the public agency. If a party wishes to
access public records by electronic means and the public agency agrees to
provide online access, a public agency may require that the party enter into a
contract, license or other agreement with the agency, and may charge fees for
these agreements.
   (B)   Fees shall not exceed:
      (1)   The cost of physical connection to the system and reasonable cost
of computer time access charges; and
      (2)   If the records are requested for a commercial purpose, a reasonable
fee based on the factors set forth in §
35.23(B) of this chapter.
(KRS 61.874(6)) (1997 Code, § 35.15)
§ 35.26 PUBLIC RECORDS PROTECTED FROM DISCLOSURE.
   (A)   The following public records are excluded from the application of this
chapter and these rules and regulations and shall be subject to inspection only
upon order of a court of competent jurisdiction; except that, no court shall
authorize the inspection by any party of any materials pertaining to civil
litigation beyond that which is provided by the Rules of Civil Procedure
governing pretrial discovery:
      (1)   Public records containing information of a personal nature where
the public disclosure thereof would constitute a clearly unwarranted invasion
of personal privacy;
      (2)   Records confidentially disclosed to an agency and compiled and
maintained for scientific research. This exemption shall not, however, apply to
records the disclosure or publication of which is directed by other statute;
      (3)   (a)   Records confidentially disclosed to an agency, or required by
an agency to be disclosed to it, generally recognized as confidential or
proprietary, which if openly disclosed would permit an unfair commercial
advantage to competitors of the entity that disclosed the records;
         (b)   Records confidentially disclosed to an agency or required by an
agency to be disclosed to it, generally recognized as confidential or
proprietary, which are compiled and maintained:
            1.   In conjunction with an application for or the administration
of a loan or a grant;
            2.   In conjunction with an application for or the administration
of assessments, incentives, inducements and tax credits as described in KRS
Chapter 154;
            3.   In conjunction with the regulation of commercial enterprise,
including mineral exploration records, unpatented, secret commercially valuable
plans, appliances, formulae or processes, which are used for the making,
preparing, compounding, treating or processing of articles or materials which
are trade commodities obtained from a person; or
            4.   For the grant or review of a license to do business.
         (c)   The exemptions provided for in divisions (A)(3)(a) and (A)(3)(b)
above shall not apply to records the disclosure or publication of which is
directed by statute;
      (4)   Public records pertaining to a prospective location of a business
or industry where no previous public disclosure has been made of the business’
or industry’s interest in locating in, relocating within or expanding within
the commonwealth. This exemption shall not include those records pertaining to
applications to agencies for permits or licenses necessary to do business or to
expand business operations within the state, except as provided in division (A)
(3) above;
      (5)   Public records which are developed by an agency in conjunction with
the regulation or supervision of financial institutions, including, but not
limited to, banks, savings and loan associations and credit unions, which
disclose the agency’s internal examining or audit criteria and related
analytical methods;
      (6)   The contents of real estate appraisals or engineering or
feasibility estimates and evaluations made by or for a public agency relative
to acquisition of property, until such time as all of the property has been
acquired. The law of eminent domain shall not be affected by this provision;
      (7)   Test questions, scoring keys and other examination data used to
administer a licensing examination, examination for employment or academic
examination before the exam is given or if it is to be given again;
      (8)   Records of law enforcement agencies or agencies involved in
administrative adjudication that were compiled in the process of detecting and
investigating statutory or regulatory violations if the disclosure of the
information would harm the agency by revealing the identity of informants not
otherwise known or by premature release of information to be used in a
prospective law enforcement action or administrative adjudication. Unless
exempted by other provisions of this chapter, public records exempted under
this provision shall be open after enforcement action is completed or a
decision is made to take no action; however, records or information compiled
and maintained by county attorneys or commonwealth’s attorneys pertaining to
criminal investigations or criminal litigation shall be exempted from the
provisions of this chapter and shall remain exempted after enforcement action,
including litigation, is completed or a decision is made to take no action. The
exemptions provided by this division (A)(8) shall not be used by the custodian
of the records to delay or impede the exercise of rights granted by this
chapter;
      (9)   Preliminary drafts, notes or correspondence with private
individuals, other than correspondence which is intended to give notice of
final action of a public agency;
      (10)   Preliminary recommendations and preliminary memoranda in which
opinions are expressed or policies formulated or recommended;
      (11)    All public records or information, the disclosure of which is
prohibited by federal law or regulation or state law;
      (12)   Public records or information, the disclosure of which is
prohibited or restricted or otherwise made confidential by enactment of the
General Assembly;
      (13)   (a)   Public records the disclosure of which would have a
reasonable likelihood of threatening the public safety by exposing a
vulnerability in preventing, protecting against, mitigating or responding to a
terrorist act and limited to:
            1.   Criticality lists resulting from consequence assessments;
            2.   Vulnerability assessments;
            3.   Antiterrorism protective measures and plans;
            4.   Counterterrorism measures and plans;
            5.   Security and response needs assessments;
            6.   Infrastructure records that expose a vulnerability referred to
in this division (A)(13) through the disclosure of the location, configuration,
or security of critical systems, including public utility critical systems.
These critical systems shall include but not be limited to information
technology, communication, electrical, fire suppression, ventilation, water,
wastewater, sewage and gas systems;
            7.   The following records when their disclosure will expose a
vulnerability referred to in this division (A)(13): detailed drawings,
schematics, maps or specifications of structural elements; floor plans and
operating, utility or security systems of any building or facility owned,
occupied, leased or maintained by a public agency; and
            8.   Records when their disclosure will expose a vulnerability
referred to in this division (A)(13) and that describe the exact physical
location of hazardous chemical, radiological or biological materials.
         (b)   As used in this division (A)(13), TERRORIST ACT means a criminal
act intended to:
            1.   Intimidate or coerce a public agency or all or part of the
civilian population;
            2.   Disrupt a system identified in division (A)(13)(a)6. above; or
            3.   Cause massive destruction to a building or facility owned,
occupied, leased or maintained by a public agency.
         (c)   On the same day that a public agency denies a request to inspect
a public record for a reason identified in this division (A)(13), that public
agency shall forward a copy of the written denial of the request, referred to
in KRS 61.880(1), to the Executive Director of the Kentucky Office of Homeland
Security and the Attorney General;
         (d)   Nothing in this division (A)(13) shall affect the obligations of
a public agency with respect to disclosure and availability of public records
under state environmental, health and safety programs;
         (e)   The exemption established in this division (A)(13) shall not
apply when a member of the Kentucky General Assembly seeks to inspect a public
record identified in this division (A)(13) under the Open Records Law;
      (14)   Public or private records, including books, papers, maps,
photographs, cards, tapes, discs, diskettes, recordings, software or other
documentation regardless of physical form or characteristics, having historic,
literary, artistic or commemorative value accepted by the archivist of a public
university, museum or government depository from a donor or depositor other
than a public agency. This exemption shall apply to the extent that non-
disclosure is requested in writing by the donor or depositor of such records,
but shall not apply to records the disclosure or publication of which is
mandated by another statute or by federal law;
      (15)   Records of a procurement process under KRS Chapters 45A or 56.
This exemption shall not apply after:
         (a)   A contract is awarded; or
         (b)   The procurement process is canceled without award of a contract
and there is a determination that the contract will not be resolicited.
      (16)    Client and case files maintained by the Department of Public
Advocacy or any person or entity contracting with the Department of Public
Advocacy for the provision of legal representation under KRS Chapter 31;
      (17)   Except as provided in KRS 61.168, photographs or videos that
depict the death, killing, rape, or sexual assault of a person. However, such
photographs or videos shall be made available by the public agency to the
requesting party for viewing on the premises of the public agency, or a
mutually agreed upon location, at the request of:
         (a)   1.   Any victim depicted in the photographs or videos, his or
her immediate family, or legal representative;
            2.   Any involved insurance company or its representative; or
            3.   The legal representative of any involved party;
         (b)   Any state agency or political subdivision investigating official
misconduct; or
         (c)   A legal representative for a person under investigation for,
charged with, pled guilty to, or found guilty of a crime related to the
underlying incident. The person under investigation for, charged with, pled
guilty to, or found guilty of a crime related to the underlying incident or
their immediate family shall not be permitted to have access to the photographs
or videos; and
      (18)   Records confidentially maintained by a law enforcement agency in
accordance with a wellness program, including an early intervention system, as
described in KRS 15.409; and
      (19)   Communications of a purely personal nature unrelated to any
governmental function.
(KRS 61.878(1))
   (B)   (1)   No exemption under this section shall be construed to prohibit
disclosure of statistical information not descriptive of any readily
identifiable person.
(KRS 61.878(2))
      (2)   In addition, if any public record contains material which is not
excepted under this section, the public agency shall separate the excepted and
make the non-excepted material available for examination, subject to the
possible applicability of §
35.18 of this chapter.
(KRS 61.878(4))
   (C)   The provisions of this section shall in no way prohibit or limit the
exchange of public records or the sharing of information between public
agencies when the exchange is serving a legitimate governmental need or is
necessary in the performance of a legitimate government function.
(KRS 61.878(5))
    (D)   When material is made available pursuant to a request under division
(A)(17) of this section, the public agency shall not be required to make a copy
of the recording except as provided in KRS 61.169, and the requesting parties
shall not be limited in the number of times they may view the material.
(KRS 61.878(6))
   (E)   (1)   No exemption under this section shall be construed to deny,
abridge or impede the right of a municipal employee, an applicant for
employment, or an eligible on a register to inspect and copy any record,
including preliminary and other supporting documentation, that relates to him
or her.
      (2)   These records shall include, but not be limited to, work plans, job
performance, demotions, evaluations, promotions, compensation, classification,
reallocation, transfers, layoffs, disciplinary actions, examination scores and
preliminary and other supporting documentation.
      (3)   A city employee, applicant or eligible shall not have the right to
inspect or copy any examination or any documents relating to ongoing criminal
or administrative investigations by any agency.
(KRS 61.878(3))  (1997 Code, § 35.16)
§ 35.27 NOTIFICATION OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL.
   The official custodian shall notify the Attorney General of any actions
filed against the city in circuit court regarding the enforcement of the Open
Records Law, KRS 61.870 to 61.884.
(1997 Code, § 35.17)
CHAPTER 36: CODE OF ETHICS
Section
General Provisions
   
36.001   Title
   
36.002   Findings
   
36.003   Purpose and authority
   
36.004   Definitions
Standards of Conduct
   
36.015   Conflicts of interest in general
   
36.016   Conflicts of interest in contracts
   
36.017   Receipt of gifts
   
36.018   Use of city property, equipment and personnel
   
36.019   Representation of interests before city government
   
36.020   Misuse of confidential information
   
36.021   Post-employment restriction
   
36.022   Honoraria
Financial Disclosure
   
36.035   Who must file
   
36.036   When to file; amended statements
   
36.037   Form of statement of financial interests
   
36.038   Control and maintenance of statements of financial interests
   
36.039   Contents of financial interests statement
   
36.040   Non-compliance with filing requirement; notice and fine
Nepotism
   
36.055   Nepotism prohibited
Enforcement
   
36.070   Board of Ethics created
   
36.071   Membership
   
36.072   Removal from office
   
36.073   Vacancies
   
36.074   Compensation
   
36.075   Chairperson; meetings
   
36.076   Alternate members
   
36.077   Facilities and staff
   
36.078   Powers and duties
   
36.079   Filing and investigation of complaints
   
36.080   Notice of hearings
   
36.081   Hearing procedure
   
36.082   Appeals
   
36.083   Limitation of actions
   
36.084   Advisory opinions
   
36.085   Reprisals against persons disclosing violations prohibited
 
   
36.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 36.001 TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the “City of Bromley Code of
Ethics”.
(1997 Code, § 38.01) (Ord. 11-3-94, passed 12-6-1994)
§ 36.002 FINDINGS.
   The legislative body of the city finds and declares that:
   (A)   Public office and employment with the city are public trusts;
   (B)   The vitality and stability of the government of the city depends upon
the public’s confidence in the integrity of its elected and appointed officers
and employees. Whenever the public perceives a conflict between the private
interests and public duties of a city officer or employee, that confidence is
imperiled; and
   (C)   The government of the city has a duty to provide its citizens with
standards by which they may determine whether public duties are being
faithfully performed, and to make its officers and employees aware of the
standards which the citizenry rightfully expects them to comply with while
conducting their public duties.
(1997 Code, § 38.02) (Ord. 11-3-94, passed 12-6-1994)
§ 36.003 PURPOSE AND AUTHORITY.
   (A)   It is the purpose of this chapter to provide a method of assuring that
standards of ethical conduct and financial disclosure requirements for officers
and employees of the city shall be clearly established, uniform in their
application and enforceable, and to provide the officers and employees of the
city with advice and information concerning potential conflicts of interest
which might arise in the conduct of their public duties.
   (B)   It is the further purpose of this chapter to meet the requirements of
KRS 65.003, as enacted by the 1994 Kentucky General Assembly.
   (C)   This chapter is enacted under the power vested in the city by KRS
82.082 and pursuant to requirements of KRS 65.003.
(1997 Code, § 38.03) (Ord. 11-3-94, passed 12-6-1994)
§ 36.004 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUSINESS. Any corporation, partnership, sole proprietorship, firm,
enterprise, franchise, association, organization, self-employed individual,
holding company, joint stock company, receivership, trust, professional service
corporation or any legal entity through which business is conducted for profit.
   BOARD OF ETHICS. The City Board of Ethics which is created and vested by
this chapter with the responsibility of enforcing the requirements of the
city’s Code of Ethics.
   CANDIDATE. Any individual who seeks nomination or election to a city office.
An individual is a CANDIDATE when the individual files a notification and
declaration for nomination for office with the County Clerk or Secretary of
State, or is nominated for office by a political party, or files a declaration
of intent to be a write-in candidate with the County Clerk or Secretary of
State.
   CITY AGENCY. Any board, commission, authority, non-stock corporation or
other entity created, either individually or jointly, by the city.
   EMPLOYEE. Any person, whether full time or part time, and whether paid or
unpaid, who is employed by or provides service to the city. The term EMPLOYEE
shall not include any contractor or subcontractor or any of their employees.
   FAMILY MEMBER. A spouse, parent, child, brother, sister, mother-in-law,
father-in-law, son-in-law, daughter-in-law, grandparent or grandchild.
   IMMEDIATE FAMILY MEMBER. A spouse, an unemancipated child residing in the
officer’s or employer’s household, or a person claimed by the officer or
employee, or the officer’s or employee’s spouse, as a dependent for tax
purposes.
   OFFICER. Any person, whether full time or part time, and whether paid or
unpaid, who is one of the following:
      (1)   The Mayor;
      (2)   A legislative body member;
      (3)   The City Clerk;
      (4)   The City Manager;
      (5)   The City Administrator;
      (6)   Any person who occupies a non-elected office created under KRS
83A.080; and
      (7)   A member of the governing body of any city agency who has been
appointed to the governing body of the agency by the city.
(1997 Code, § 38.04) (Ord. 11-3-94, passed 12-6-1994)
STANDARDS OF CONDUCT
§ 36.015 CONFLICTS OF INTEREST IN GENERAL.
   Every officer and employee of the city and every city agency shall comply
with the following standards of conduct.
   (A)   No officer or employee, or any immediate family member of any officer
or employee, shall have an interest in a business or engage in any business,
transaction or activity, which is in substantial conflict with the proper
discharge of the officer’s or employee’s public duties.
   (B)   No officer or employee shall intentionally use or attempt to use his
or her official position with the city to secure unwarranted privileges or
advantages for himself or herself or others.
   (C)   No officer or employee shall intentionally take or refrain from taking
any discretionary action, or agree to take or refrain from taking any
discretionary action, or induce or attempt to induce any other officer or
employee to take or refrain from taking any discretionary action, on any matter
before the city in order to obtain a financial benefit for any of the
following:
      (1)   The officer or employee;
      (2)   A family member;
      (3)   An outside employer;
      (4)   Any business in which the officer or employee or any family member
has a financial interest; and
      (5)   Any business with which the officer or employee or any family
member is negotiating or seeking prospective employment or other business or
professional relationship.
   (D)   No officer or employee shall be deemed in violation of any provision
in this section if, by reason of the officer’s or employee’s participation,
vote, decision, action or inaction, no financial benefit accrues to the officer
or employee, a family member, an outside employer or a business as defined in
divisions (C)(4) and (C)(5) above, as a member of any business, occupation,
profession or other group, to any greater extent than any gain could reasonably
be expected to accrue to any other member of the business, occupation,
profession or other group.
   (E)   Every officer or employee who has a prohibited financial interest
which the officer or employee believes or has reason to believe may be affected
by his or her participation, vote, decision or other action taken within the
scope of his or her public duties shall disclose the precise nature and value
of the interest, in writing, to the governing body of the city or city agency
served by the officer or employee, and the disclosure shall be entered on the
official record of the proceedings of the governing body. The officer or
employee shall refrain from taking any action with respect to the matter that
is the subject of the disclosure.
(1997 Code, § 38.15) (Ord. 11-3-94, passed 12-6-1994)
§ 36.016 CONFLICTS OF INTEREST IN CONTRACTS.
   (A)   No officer or employee of the city or any city agency shall directly
or through others undertake, execute, hold or enjoy, in whole or in part, any
contract made, entered into, awarded or granted by the city or a city agency,
except as follows.
      (1)   The prohibition in division (A) above shall not apply to contracts
entered into before an elected officer filed as a candidate for the city
office, before an appointed officer was appointed to a city or city agency
office, or before an employee was hired by the city or a city agency. However,
if any contract entered into by a city or city agency officer or employee
before he or she became a candidate, was appointed to office, or was hired as
an employee, is renewable after he or she becomes a candidate, assumes the
appointed office, or is hired as an employee, then the prohibition in division
(A) above shall apply to the renewal of the contract.
      (2)   The prohibition in division (A) above shall not apply if the
contract is awarded after public notice and competitive bidding, unless the
officer or employee is authorized to participate in establishing the contract
specifications, awarding the contract or managing contract performance after
the contract is awarded. If the officer or employee has any of the authorities
set forth in the preceding sentence, then the officer or employee shall have no
interest in the contract, unless the requirements set forth in division (A)(3)
below are satisfied.
      (3)   The prohibition in division (A) above shall not apply in any case
where the following requirements are satisfied:
         (a)   The specific nature of the contract transaction and the name of
the officer’s or employee’s interest in the contract are publicly disclosed at
a meeting of the governing body of the city or city agency;
         (b)   The disclosure is made a part of the official record of the
governing body of the city or city agency before the contract is executed;
         (c)   A finding is made by the governing body of the city or city
agency that the contract with the officer or employee is in the best interests
of the public and the city or city agency because of price, limited supply or
other specific reasons; and
         (d)   The finding is made a part of the official record of the
governing body of the city or city agency before the contract is executed.
   (B)   (1)   Any violation of this section shall constitute a Class A
misdemeanor and, upon conviction, the court may void any contract entered into
in violation of this section.
      (2)   Additionally, a violation of this section shall be grounds for
removal from the office or employment with the city in accordance with any
applicable provisions of state law and ordinances, rules or regulations of the
city.
(1997 Code, § 38.16) (Ord. 11-3-94, passed 12-6-1994)
§ 36.017 RECEIPT OF GIFTS.
   No officer or employee of the city or any city agency shall directly, or
indirectly through any other person or business, solicit or accept any gift
having a fair market value of more than $100, whether in the form of money,
service, loan, travel, entertainment, hospitality, thing or promise, or any
other form, under circumstances in which it could reasonably be inferred that
the gift was intended to influence, or could reasonably be expected to
influence the officer or employee in the performance of his or her public
duties.
(1997 Code, § 38.17) (Ord. 11-3-94, passed 12-6-1994) Penalty, see §
36.999
§ 36.018 USE OF CITY PROPERTY, EQUIPMENT AND PERSONNEL.
   No officer or employee of the city shall use or permit the use of any city
time, funds, personnel, equipment or other personal or real property for the
private use of any person, unless:
   (A)   The use is specifically authorized by a stated city policy; and/or
   (B)   The use is available to the general public, and then only to the
extent and upon the terms that such use is available to the general public.
(1997 Code, § 38.18) (Ord. 11-3-94, passed 12-6-1994) Penalty, see §
36.999
§ 36.019 REPRESENTATION OF INTERESTS BEFORE CITY GOVERNMENT.
   (A)   No officer or employee of the city or any city agency shall represent
any person or business, other than the city, in connection with any cause,
proceeding, application or other matter pending before the city agency.
   (B)   Nothing in this section shall prohibit an employee from representing
another employee or employees where the representation is within the context of
official labor union or similar representational responsibilities.
   (C)   Nothing in this section shall prohibit any officer or employee from
representing himself or herself in matters concerning his or her own interests.
   (D)   No elected officer shall be prohibited by this section from making any
inquiry for information on behalf of a constituent, if no compensation, reward
or other thing of value is promised to, given to or accepted by the officer,
whether directly or indirectly, in return for the inquiry.
(1997 Code, § 38.19) (Ord. 11-3-94, passed 12-6-1994) Penalty, see §
36.999
§ 36.020 MISUSE OF CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION.
   (A)   No officer or employee of the city or any city agency shall
intentionally use or disclose information acquired in the course of his or her
official duties, if the primary purpose of the use or disclosure is to further
his or her personal financial interest or that of another person or business.
   (B)   Information shall be deemed confidential, it is not subject to
disclosure pursuant to the commonwealth’s Open Records Act, KRS 61.872 to
61.884, at the time of its use or disclosure.
(1997 Code, § 38.20) (Ord. 11-3-94, passed 12-6-1994) Penalty, see §
36.999
§ 36.021 POST-EMPLOYMENT RESTRICTION.
   No officer or employee of the city or any city agency shall appear or
practice before the city or any city agency with respect to any matter on which
the officer or employee personally worked while in the service of the city or
city agency for a period of one year after the termination of the officer’s or
employee’s service with the city or city agency.
(1997 Code, § 38.21) (Ord. 11-3-94, passed 12-6-1994) Penalty, see §
36.999
§ 36.022 HONORARIA.
   (A)   No officer or employee of the city or a city agency shall accept any
compensation, honorarium or gift with a fair market value greater than $100 in
consideration of an appearance, speech or article unless the appearance, speech
or article is both related to the officer’s or employee’s activities outside of
municipal service and is unrelated to the officer’s or employee’s service with
the city.
   (B)   Nothing in this section shall prohibit an officer or employee of the
city or any city agency from receiving and retaining from the city or on behalf
of the city actual and reasonable out-of-pocket expenses incurred by the
officer or employee in connection with an appearance, speech or article;
provided that, the officer or employee can show by clear and convincing
evidence that the expenses were incurred or received on behalf of the city or
city agency and primarily for the benefit of the city or city agency and not
primarily for the benefit of the officer or employee or any other person.
(1997 Code, § 38.22) (Ord. 11-3-94, passed 12-6-1994) Penalty, see §
36.999
FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE
§ 36.035 WHO MUST FILE.
   The following classes of officers and employees of the city and city
agencies shall file an annual statement of financial interests with the Board
of Ethics:
   (A)   Elected city officials;
   (B)   Candidates for elected city office;
   (C)   Members of the City Planning and Zoning Commission and Board of
Adjustment;
   (D)   Members of the Board of Ethics created by this chapter; and
   (E)   Non-elected officers and employees of the city or any city agency who
are authorized to make purchases of materials or services, or award contracts,
leases or agreements involving the expenditure of more than $500.
(1997 Code, § 38.35) (Ord. 11-3-94, passed 12-6-1994)
§ 36.036 WHEN TO FILE; AMENDED STATEMENTS.
   (A)   The initial statement of financial interests required by this section
shall be filed with the Board of Ethics, or the administrative official
designated as the custodian of its records by the Board of Ethics, no later
than 5:00 p.m. on 3-31-1995. All subsequent statements of financial interest
shall be filed no later than 5:00 p.m. on March 31 each year; provided that:
      (1)   An officer or employee newly-appointed to fill an office or
position of employment with the city or a city agency shall file his or her
initial statement no later than 30 days after the date of the appointment; and
      (2)   A candidate for city office shall file his or her initial statement
no later than 30 days after the date on which the person becomes a candidate
for elected city office.
   (B)   The Board of Ethics may grant a reasonable extension of time for
filing a statement of financial interests for good cause shown.
   (C)   In the event there is a material change in any information contained
in a financial statement that has been filed with the Board, the officer or
employee shall, no later than 30 days after becoming aware of the material
change, file an amended statement with the Board.
(1997 Code, § 38.36) (Ord. 11-3-94, passed 12-6-1994)
§ 36.037 FORM OF STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL INTERESTS.
   (A)   The statement of financial interests shall be filed on a form
prescribed by the Board of Ethics, or the administrative official designated by
the Board of Ethics.
   (B)   The Board, or the designated administrative official, shall deliver a
copy of the form to each officer and employee required to file the statement,
by first class mail or hand delivery, no later than March 1 of each year.
   (C)   The failure of the Board, or the designated administrative official,
to deliver a copy of the form to any officer or employee shall not relieve the
officer or employee of the obligation to file the statement.
(1997 Code, § 38.37) (Ord. 11-3-94, passed 12-6-1994)
§ 36.038 CONTROL AND MAINTENANCE OF STATEMENTS OF FINANCIAL INTERESTS.
   (A)   The Board of Ethics shall be the “official custodian” of the
statements of financial interests and shall have control over the maintenance
of the statements of financial interests. The statements of financial interests
shall be maintained by the Board of Ethics, or the administrative official
designated by the Board of Ethics as the “custodian”, as public documents,
available for public inspection immediately upon filing.
   (B)   A statement of financial interests shall be retained by the Board, or
the designated administrative official, for a period of five years after
filing; provided that:
      (1)   Upon the expiration of three years after a person ceases to be an
officer or employee of the city or a city agency, the Board shall cause to be
destroyed any statements of financial interests or copies of those statements
filed by the person; and/or
      (2)   Upon the expiration of three years after any election at which a
candidate for elected city office was not elected or nominated, the Board shall
cause to be destroyed any statements of financial interests or copies of those
statements filed by the person.
(1997 Code, § 38.38) (Ord. 11-3-94, passed 12-6-1994)
§ 36.039 CONTENTS OF FINANCIAL INTERESTS STATEMENT.
   The statement of financial interests shall include the following information
for the preceding calendar year:
   (A)   The name, current business address, business telephone number and home
address of the filer;
   (B)   The title of the filer’s office, office sought or position of
employment; and
   (C)   The occupation of the filer and the filer’s spouse.
(1997 Code, § 38.39) (Ord. 11-3-94, passed 12-6-1994)
§ 36.040 NON-COMPLIANCE WITH FILING REQUIREMENT; NOTICE AND FINE.
   The Board of Ethics, or the designated administrative official, shall notify
by certified mail each person required to file a statement of financial
interests who fails to file the statement by the due date, files an incomplete
statement or files a statement in a form other than that prescribed by the
Board. The notice shall specify the type of failure or delinquency, shall
establish a date by which the failure or delinquency shall be remedied, and
shall advise the person of the penalties for a violation.
(1997 Code, § 38.40) (Ord. 11-3-94, passed 12-6-1994) Penalty, see §
36.999
NEPOTISM
§ 36.055 NEPOTISM PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No officer or employee of the city or a city agency shall advocate,
recommend or cause the employment, appointment, promotion, transfer or
advancement of a family member to an office or position of employment with the
city or a city agency.
   (B)   No officer or employee of the city or a city agency shall supervise or
manage the work of a family member.
   (C)   No officer or employee shall participate in any action relating to the
employment or discipline of a family member; except that, this prohibition
shall not prevent an elected or appointed official from voting on or
participating in the development of a budget which includes compensation for a
family member; provided that, the family member is included only as a member of
a class of persons or a group, and the family member benefits to no greater
extent than any other similarly situated member of the class or group.
   (D)   The prohibitions in this section shall not apply to any relationship
or situation that would violate the prohibition, but which existed prior to 12-
31-1994.
(1997 Code, § 38.50) (Ord. 11-3-94, passed 12-6-1994) Penalty, see §
36.999
ENFORCEMENT
§ 36.070 BOARD OF ETHICS CREATED.
   There is hereby created a Board of Ethics which shall have the authorities,
duties, and responsibilities as set forth in this chapter to enforce the
provisions of this chapter.
(1997 Code, § 38.60) (Ord. 11-3-94, passed 12-6-1994)
§ 36.071 MEMBERSHIP.
   The Board of Ethics shall consist of three members who shall be appointed by
the executive authority of the city, subject to the approval of the legislative
body (if different from the executive authority). The initial members of the
Board of Ethics shall be appointed within 60 days of the effective date of this
chapter. No member of the Board of Ethics shall hold any elected or appointed
office, whether paid or unpaid, or any position of employment with the city or
any city agency. The members shall serve for a term of three years; except
that, with respect to the members initially appointed, one member shall be
appointed for a term of one year, one member shall be appointed for a term of
two years, and one member shall be appointed for a term of three years.
Thereafter, all appointments shall be for a term of three years. Each member of
the Board of Ethics shall have been a resident of the city for at least one
year prior to the date of the appointment and shall reside in the city
throughout the term in office. The members of the Board of Ethics shall be
chosen by virtue of their known and consistent reputation for integrity and
their knowledge of local government affairs. The members may be re-appointed
for any number of consecutive terms.
(1997 Code, § 38.61) (Ord. 11-3-94, passed 12-6-1994)
§ 36.072 REMOVAL FROM OFFICE.
   A member of the Board of Ethics may be removed by the executive authority,
subject to the approval of the legislative body for misconduct, inability or
willful neglect of duties. Before any member of the Board of Ethics is removed
from office under this section, the member shall be afforded the opportunity
for a hearing before the executive authority and the legislative body.
(1997 Code, § 38.63) (Ord. 11-3-94, passed 12-6-1994)
§ 36.073 VACANCIES.
   Vacancies of the Board of Ethics shall be filled within 60 days by the
executive authority, subject to the approval of the legislative body. If a
vacancy is not filled by the executive authority within 60 days, the remaining
members of the Board of Ethics shall fill the vacancy. All vacancies shall be
filled for the remainder of the unexpired term.
(1997 Code, § 38.63) (Ord. 11-3-94, passed 12-6-1994)
§ 36.074 COMPENSATION.
   Members of the Board of Ethics shall serve without compensation, unless
otherwise approved by the legislative body, but shall be reimbursed for all
necessary and reasonable expenses incurred in the performance of their duties.
(1997 Code, § 38.64) (Ord. 11-3-94, passed 12-6-1994)
§ 36.075 CHAIRPERSON; MEETINGS.
   (A)   The Board of Ethics shall, upon the initial appointment of its
members, and annually thereafter, elect a Chairperson from among the
membership. The Chairperson shall be the presiding officer and a full voting
member of the Board.
   (B)   Meetings of the Board of Ethics shall be held as necessary upon the
call of the Chairperson or at the written request of a majority of the members.
   (C)   The presence of two or more members shall constitute a quorum and the
affirmative vote of two or more members shall be necessary for any official
action to be taken. Any member of the Board of Ethics who has a conflict of
interest with respect to any matter to be considered by the Board shall
disclose the nature of the conflict, shall disqualify himself or herself from
voting on the matter, and shall not be counted for purposes of establishing a
quorum.
   (D)   Minutes shall be kept for all proceedings of the Board of Ethics and
the vote of each member on any issue decided by the Board shall be recorded in
the minutes.
(1997 Code, § 38.65) (Ord. 11-3-94, passed 12-6-1994)
§ 36.076 ALTERNATE MEMBERS.
   The executive of the city, with the approval of the legislative body may
appoint two alternate members of the Board of Ethics who may be called upon to
serve when any regular member of the Board is unable to discharge his or her
duties. An alternate member shall be appointed for a term of one year.
Alternate members shall meet all qualifications and be subject to all of the
requirements of this chapter that apply to regular members.
(1997 Code, § 38.66) (Ord. 11-3-94, passed 12-6-1994)
§ 36.077 FACILITIES AND STAFF.
   Within the limits of the funds appropriated by the legislative body in the
annual budget, the city shall provide the Board of Ethics, either directly or
by contract or agreement, with the facilities, materials, supplies and staff
needed for the conduct of its business.
(1997 Code, § 38.67) (Ord. 11-3-94, passed 12-6-1994)
§ 36.078 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   The Board of Ethics shall have the following powers and duties:
   (A)   To initiate on its own motion, receive and investigate complaints,
hold hearings and make findings of fact and determinations with regard to
alleged violations of the provisions of this chapter;
   (B)   To issue orders in connection with its investigations and hearings
requiring persons to submit in writing and under oath reports and answers to
questions that are relevant to the proceedings and to order testimony to be
taken by deposition before any individual designated by the Board who has the
power to administer oaths;
   (C)   To administer oaths and to issue orders requiring the attendance and
testimony of witnesses and the production of documentary evidence relating to
an investigation or hearing being conducted by the Board;
   (D)   To refer any information concerning violations of this chapter to the
executive authority of the city, the city legislative body, the governing body
of any city agency, the county attorney or other appropriate person or body, as
necessary;
   (E)   To render advisory opinions to city and city agency officers and
employees regarding whether a given set of facts and circumstances would
constitute a violation of any provision of this chapter;
   (F)   To enforce the provisions of this chapter with regard to all officers
and employees of the city and city agencies who are subject to its terms by
issuing appropriate orders and imposing penalties authorized by this chapter;
   (G)   To control and maintain all statements of financial interests that are
required to be filed by this chapter and to ensure that the statements are
available for public inspection in accordance with the requirements of this
chapter and the commonwealth’s Open Records Act;
   (H)   To develop and submit any reports regarding the conduct of its
business that may be required by the executive authority or legislative body of
the city; and
   (I)   To adopt rules and regulations and to take other actions, as
necessary, to implement the provisions of this chapter; provided that, the
rules, regulations and actions are not in conflict with the provisions of this
chapter or any state or federal law.
(1997 Code, § 38.68) (Ord. 11-3-94, passed 12-6-1994)
Statutory reference:
   Kentucky Open Records Act, KRS 61.870 through 61.884
§ 36.079 FILING AND INVESTIGATION OF COMPLAINTS.
   (A)   All complaints alleging any violation of the provisions of this
chapter shall be submitted to the Board of Ethics or the administrative
official designated by the Board of Ethics. All complaints shall be in writing,
signed by the complainant and shall meet any other requirements established by
the Board of Ethics. The Board of Ethics shall acknowledge receipt of a
complaint to the complainant within ten working days from the date of receipt.
The Board shall forward within ten working days to each officer or employee of
the city or city agency who is the subject of the complaint a copy of the
complaint and a general statement of the applicable provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   Within 30 days of the receipt of a proper complaint, the Board of
Ethics shall conduct a preliminary inquiry concerning the allegations contained
in the complaint. The Board shall afford a person who is the subject of the
complaint an opportunity to respond to the allegations in the complaint. The
person shall have the right to be represented by counsel, to appear and be
heard under oath and to offer evidence in response to the allegations.
   (C)   All proceedings and records relating to a preliminary inquiry being
conducted by the Board of Ethics shall be confidential until a final
determination is made by the Board, except:
      (1)   The Board may turn over to the Commonwealth’s Attorney or county
attorney evidence which may be used in criminal proceedings; and
      (2)   If the complainant or alleged violator publicly disclose the
existence of a preliminary inquiry, the Board may publicly confirm the
existence of the inquiry and, at its discretion, make public any documents
which were issued to either party.
   (D)   The Board shall make a determination based on its preliminary inquiry
whether the complaint is within its jurisdiction and, if so, whether it alleges
a minimal factual basis to constitute a violation of this chapter. If the Board
concludes that the complaint is outside of its jurisdiction, frivolous or
without factual basis, the Board shall immediately terminate the inquiry,
reduce the conclusion to writing and transmit a copy of its decision to the
complainant and to all officers or employees against whom the complaint was
filed.
   (E)   If the Board of Ethics concludes, based upon its preliminary inquiry,
that the complaint is within its jurisdiction and contains allegations
sufficient to establish a minimal factual basis to constitute a violation, the
Board shall notify the officer or employee who is the subject of the complaint
and may:
      (1)   Due to mitigating circumstances such as, lack of significant
economic advantage or gain by the officer or employee, lack of economic loss to
the city and its taxpayers, or lack of significant impact on public confidence
in city government issue, in writing, a confidential reprimand to the officer
or employee concerning the alleged violation and provide a copy of the
confidential reprimand to the executive authority and governing body of the
city or city agency; and
      (2)   Initiate a hearing to determine whether there has been a violation.
   (F)   Any person who knowingly files with the Board a false complaint
alleging a violation of any provision of this chapter by an officer or employee
of the city or any city agency shall be guilty of a Class A misdemeanor.
(1997 Code, § 38.69) (Ord. 11-3-94, passed 12-6-1994) Penalty, see §
36.999
§ 36.080 NOTICE OF HEARINGS.
   If the Board of Ethics determines that a hearing regarding allegations
contained in the complaint is necessary, the Board shall issue an order setting
the matter for a hearing within 30 days of the date the order is issued, unless
the alleged violator petitions for and the Board consents to a later date. The
order setting the matter for hearing, along with a copy of any pertinent
regulations of the Board relating to the hearing shall be sent to the alleged
violator within 24 hours of the time the order setting a hearing is issued.
(1997 Code, § 38.70) (Ord. 11-3-94, passed 12-6-1994)
§ 36.081 HEARING PROCEDURE.
   (A)   The commonwealth’s Rules of Civil Procedure and the commonwealth’s
Rules of Evidence shall not apply to hearings conducted by the Board of Ethics;
however, the hearings shall be conducted in accordance with this section and in
accordance with any additional rules and regulations adopted by the Board so as
to afford all parties the full range of due process rights required by the
nature of the proceedings.
   (B)   Prior to the commencement of the hearing, the alleged violator or his
or her representative shall have a reasonable opportunity to examine all
documents and records obtained or prepared by the Board in connection with the
matter to be heard. The Board shall inform the alleged violator, or his or her
representative, of any exculpatory evidence in its possession.
   (C)   All testimony in a Board hearing shall be taken under oath,
administered by the presiding officer. All parties shall have the right to call
and examine witnesses, to introduce exhibits, to cross-examine witnesses, to
submit evidence and to be represented by counsel. All witnesses shall have the
right to be represented by counsel.
   (D)   Any person whose name is mentioned during the hearing and who may be
adversely affected thereby may appear personally before the Board, with or
without counsel, to give a statement regarding the adverse mention, or may file
a written statement regarding the adverse mention for incorporation into the
record of the proceeding.
   (E)   All hearings of the Board of Ethics shall be public, unless the
members vote to go into executive session in accordance with KRS 61.810.
   (F)   After the conclusion of the hearing, the Board of Ethics shall, as
soon as practicable, begin deliberations in executive session for the purpose
of reviewing the evidence before it and making a determination whether a
violation of this chapter has been proven. Within 30 days after completion of
the hearing, the Board shall issue a written report of its findings and
conclusions.
   (G)   If the Board concludes in its report that no violation of this chapter
has occurred, it shall immediately send written notice of this determination to
the officer or employee who was the subject of the complaint and to the party
who filed the complaint.
   (H)   If the Board concludes, in its report, that in consideration of the
evidence produced at the hearing there is clear and convincing proof of a
violation of this chapter, the Board may:
      (1)   Issue an order requiring the violator to cease and desist the
violation;
      (2)   In writing, publicly reprimand the violator for the violations and
provide a copy of the reprimand to the executive authority and governing body
(if different than the executive authority) of the city or city agency with
which the violator serves;
      (3)   In writing, recommend to the executive authority and the governing
body (if different than the executive authority) that the violator be
sanctioned as recommended by the Board, which may include a recommendation for
discipline or dismissal, or removal from office;
      (4)   Issue an order requiring the violator to pay a civil penalty of not
more than $1,000; and/or
      (5)   Refer evidence of criminal violations of this chapter or state laws
to the County Attorney or Commonwealth’s Attorney of the jurisdiction for
prosecution.
(1997 Code, § 38.71) (Ord. 11-3-94, passed 12-6-1994)
§ 36.082 APPEALS.
   Any person who is found guilty of a violation of any provision of this
chapter by the Board of Ethics may appeal the finding to the Circuit Court of
the county within 30 days after the date of the final action by the Board of
Ethics by filing a petition with the court against the Board. The Board shall
transmit to the Clerk of the Court all evidence considered by the Board at the
public hearing.
(1997 Code, § 38.72) (Ord. 11-3-94, passed 12-6-1994)
§ 36.083 LIMITATION OF ACTIONS.
   Except when the period of limitation is otherwise established by state law,
an action for a violation of this chapter must be brought within one year after
the violation is discovered.
(1997 Code, § 38.73) (Ord. 11-3-94, passed 12-6-1994)
§ 36.084 ADVISORY OPINIONS.
   (A)   The Board of Ethics may render advisory opinions concerning matters
under its jurisdiction, based upon real or hypothetical facts and
circumstances, upon its own initiative, or when requested by any officer or
employee of the city or a city agency who is covered by this chapter.
   (B)   An advisory opinion shall be requested in writing and shall state
relevant facts and ask specific questions. The request for an advisory opinion
shall remain confidential unless confidentiality is waived, in writing, by the
requestor.
   (C)   The Board may adopt regulations, consistent with the commonwealth’s
Open Records Law, to establish criteria under which it will issue confidential
advisory opinions. All other advisory opinions shall be public documents;
except that, before an advisory opinion is made public, it shall be modified so
that the identity of any person associated with the opinion shall not be
revealed.
   (D)   The confidentiality of an advisory opinion may be waived either:
      (1)   In writing by the person who requested the opinion; or
      (2)   By majority vote of the members of the Board, if a person makes or
purports to make public the substance or any portion of an advisory opinion
requested by or on behalf of the person. The Board may vote to make public the
advisory opinion request and related materials.
   (E)   A written advisory opinion issued by the Board shall be binding on the
Board in any subsequent proceeding concerning the facts and circumstances of
the particular case if no intervening facts or circumstances arise which would
change the opinion of the Board if they had existed at the time the opinion was
rendered. However, if any fact determined by the Board to be material was
omitted or misstated in the request for an opinion, the Board shall not be
bound by the opinion.
   (F)   A written advisory opinion issued by the Board shall be admissible in
the defense of any criminal prosecution or civil proceeding for violations of
this chapter for actions taken in reliance on that opinion.
(1997 Code, § 38.74) (Ord. 11-3-94, passed 12-6-1994)
Statutory reference:
   Kentucky Open Records Act, KRS 61.870 through 61.884
§ 36.085 REPRISALS AGAINST PERSONS DISCLOSING VIOLATIONS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No officer or employee of the city or any city agency shall subject to
reprisal, or directly or indirectly use, any official authority or influence in
any manner whatsoever which tends to discourage, restrain, deter, prevent,
interfere with, coerce or discriminate against any person who in good faith
reports, discloses, divulges or otherwise brings to the attention of the Board
of Ethics or any other agency or official of the city or the commonwealth any
facts or information relative to an actual or suspected violation of this
chapter.
   (B)   This section shall not be construed as prohibiting disciplinary or
punitive action if an officer or employee of the city or any city agency
discloses information which he or she knows:
      (1)   To be false or which he or she discloses with reckless disregard
for its truth or falsity;
      (2)   To be exempt from required disclosure under the provisions of the
commonwealth’s Open Records Act, KRS 61.870 to 61.884; and/or
      (3)   Is confidential under any other provision of law.
(1997 Code, § 38.75) (Ord. 11-3-94, passed 12-6-1994)
§ 36.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   (1)   Except when another penalty is specifically set forth in this
chapter, any officer or employee of the city or any city agency who is found by
the Board of Ethics to have violated any provision of this chapter shall be
deemed guilty of a civil offense and may be subject to a civil fine imposed by
the Board of Ethics not to exceed $1,000, which may be recovered by the city in
a civil action in the nature of debt if the offender fails to pay the penalty
within a prescribed period of time.
      (2)   In addition to all other penalties which may be imposed under this
chapter, any officer or employee of the city or any city agency who is found by
the Board of Ethics to have violated any provision of this chapter shall
forfeit to the city or the city agency an amount equal to the economic benefit
or gain which the officer or employee is determined by the Board to have
realized as a result of the violation. The amount of any forfeiture may be
recovered by the city in a civil action in the nature of the debt, if the
offender fails to pay the amount of the forfeiture within a prescribed period
of time.
      (3)   In addition to all other penalties which may be imposed under this
chapter, a finding by the Board of Ethics that an officer or employee of the
city or any city agency is guilty of a violation of this chapter shall be
sufficient cause for removal, suspension, demotion or other disciplinary action
by the executive authority of the city or city agency, or by any other officer
or agency having the power of removal or discipline. Any action to remove or
discipline any officer or employee for a violation of this chapter shall be
taken in accordance with all applicable ordinances and regulations of the city
and all applicable laws of the commonwealth.
(1997 Code, § 38.99)
   (B)   (1)   Any person who fails or refuses to file the statement or who
fails or refuses to remedy a deficiency in the filing identified in the notice
under §
36.040 of this chapter within the time period established in the notice shall
be guilty of a civil offense and shall be subject to a civil fine imposed by
the Board in an amount not to exceed $25 per day, up to a maximum total civil
fine of $500. Any civil fine imposed by the Board under §
36.040 of this chapter may be recovered by the city in a civil action in the
nature of debt if the offender fails or refuses to pay the penalty within a
prescribed period of time.
      (2)   Any person who intentionally files a statement of financial
interests which he or she knows to contain false information or intentionally
omits required information shall be guilty of a Class A misdemeanor.
(1997 Code, § 38.40) (Ord. 11-3-94, passed 12-6-1994)
CHAPTER 37: CITY POLICIES AND PROPERTIES
Section
General Provisions
   
37.01   False alarm drops by businesses
   
37.02   Leasing or licensing of city property
   
37.03   Kentucky Standards of Safety adopted by reference
City Hall
   
37.15   Limitation of use of facilities
   
37.16   Conditions for use
   
37.17   Use of facilities
   
37.18   Prohibited acts
   
37.19   Hall Custodian
 
   
37.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 37.01 FALSE ALARM DROPS BY BUSINESSES.
   (A)   It is hereby and herewith determined that more than two false alarm
drops per business establishment per calendar month is a threat to public
safety and convenience, and that any alarm drops in excess of the two false
alarm drops per calendar month per licensed business establishment must be
prohibited by appropriate punitive measures.
   (B)   For each false alarm drop over two per calendar month per licensed
business establishment, the business license holder shall be subject to a civil
penalty as provided in §
37.99(B) of this chapter, payable to the law enforcement agency under contract
with the city.
   (C)   For all other purposes, this section shall be enforced as other city
ordinances and the appropriate criminal action shall be taken to insurance
compliance.
   (D)   The Chief of Police and the Chief of the Fire Department shall certify
such excessive false alarm drops to the City Clerk, who shall bill the
offending license holder. In the event the offending party fails to pay the
billing, cause shall be had to revoke the business license as well as other
appropriate civil and criminal remedies.
(1997 Code, § 39.01) (Ord. 3-1-92, passed 3-7-1992) Penalty, see §
37.99
§ 37.02 LEASING OR LICENSING OF CITY PROPERTY.
   No real or personal property owned by or in the lawful possession of the
City of Bromley shall at any time be leased, licensed or loaned to any person
or entity unless same is accomplished by a written agreement, approved by a
majority of the City Council and signed by the Mayor, which contains at a
minimum the following terms and conditions:
   (A)   A specific description of the property;
   (B)   The duration of the agreement;
   (C)   The amount of the payments to be made to the city as a weekly, monthly
or annual amount; and
   (D)   A provision that in the event of a breach of the terms of the
agreement that the city through its officials or employees shall immediately
upon such breach take all legal and necessary action to return possession of
the property to the city.
(Ord. 3-2-22, passed 4-13-2022)
§ 37.03 KENTUCKY STANDARDS OF SAFETY ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   (A)   Pursuant to KRS 227.320, the city hereby adopts and incorporates by
reference the Kentucky Standards of Safety, as promulgated under 815 KAR 10:060
by the Commissioner of the Department of Housing, Buildings and Construction on
the advice and recommendation of the Kentucky State Fire Marshall. These rules
and regulations shall establish a minimum requirement concerning matters
covered thereby and shall be so construed in relation to any local rules and
regulations. Copies of the code book are available through the Department of
Housing, Building and Construction, 101 Sea Hero Road, Suite 100, Frankfort,
Kentucky 40601.
   (B)   The City of Ludlow Fire Chief, or the chief of any other fire
department under contract with the city for fire emergency services, is
designated as the local enforcement agent/agency for the Standards of Safety.
   (C)   In addition to any other sanctions, violations of the Standards of
Safety shall be deemed a civil offense. All final decisions of the Fire Chief
shall be appealable to the Kenton County Joint Code Enforcement Board pursuant
to its rules, procedures and regulations.
(Ord. 2-1-23, passed 3-8-2023)
CITY HALL
§ 37.15 LIMITATION OF USE OF FACILITIES.
   The use of the facilities in the City Hall shall be limited to the following
bodies and groups: City Council; committees and officers serving under the
Council; the Voluntary Fire Department; the Voluntary Fire Department
Auxiliary; the Bromley Civic Association; and other citizens whose purpose is
lawful and acceptable in the discretion of the City Council; except that, no
person shall be permitted to use the City Hall who has, at the time of request,
any delinquent amount due to the city for unpaid taxes, assessments or liens.
(1997 Code, § 36.01) (Ord. 1-1-19, passed 2-13-2019)
§ 37.16 CONDITIONS FOR USE.
   (A)   The City Council shall designate nights reserved for its own use. Upon
application being filed with the Mayor or his or her designee by any party
covered by §
37.15 of this chapter, permission for use of the facilities and the amount to
be charged therefor shall be determined by the Mayor or his designee, subject
to any limitations established by Council by ordinance or order.
   (B)   It shall be a condition of the granting of such permission that the
party assumes liability for any and all damage to city property during or by
reason of the use of the hall.
   (C)   It is a further condition accompanying the granting of such permission
that the Hall shall be left clean and free from refuse, with all furniture
properly arranged.
   (D)   Failure of user to respect conditions imposed in divisions (B) and (C)
above shall act as revocation of the privileges to continued use of the hall.
(1997 Code, § 36.02)
§ 37.17 USE OF FACILITIES.
   (A)    Any actual bona fide adult resident of the city shall pay to the City
Treasurer the sum of $100 as a deposit for the use of the facilities of the
City Hall. At the conclusion of the event, the $100 deposit shall be refunded
to such person having made the deposit, less any charges for damage, breakage,
loss or other expenses incurred by the city arising from the event referred to
in this section.
   (B)   Any person using the facilities of the City Hall under division (A) or
(C) shall be required to pay a $75 fee to cover charges incurred by the city
for cleanup of the hall and facilities following the use of same. The $75
cleanup fee is non-refundable to any person or group.
   (C)   Any adult non-resident of the city shall pay to the city a non-
refundable sum of $200 for the use of the facilities of the City Hall. In
addition, any adult non-resident shall pay to the city the sum of $100 as a
deposit for the use of the facilities of the City Hall. At the conclusion of
the event, the $100 deposit shall be refunded to such person having made the
deposit, less any charges for damage, breakage, loss, or other expenses
incurred by the city arising from the event referred to in this section.
(1997 Code, § 36.03) (Ord. 6-1-85, passed - -1985; Ord. 9-2-94, passed 10-1-
1994; Ord. 8-1-21, passed 9-1-2021)
§ 37.18 PROHIBITED ACTS.
   No person shall spit upon nor destroy, scratch, mar or deface the City Hall
or any furniture or fixtures therein.
(1997 Code, § 36.04) Penalty, see §
37.99
§ 37.19 HALL CUSTODIAN.
   The City Council shall appoint a Hall Custodian who shall be an employee of
the Council to perform such duties as directed by the Council. The Hall
Custodian shall serve during good behavior and satisfactory service for a term
co-terminus with that of the appointing Council. The compensation for this
office shall be set by appropriate ordinance of the City Council.
(1997 Code, § 36.05)
§ 37.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   (1)   For each false alarm drop over the two alarm limit provided in §
37.01(A) of this chapter, the civil penalty referred to in §
37.01(B) of this chapter shall be $50 per drop.
      (2)   In addition to the civil penalty provided in division (B)(1) above,
any person who violates any provision of §
37.01 of this chapter shall be guilty of a violation and shall be subject to a
fine not to exceed $250.
(1997 Code, § 39.99) (Ord. 3-1-92, passed 3-7-1992)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   GARBAGE AND REFUSE
CHAPTER 50: GARBAGE AND REFUSE
Section
   
50.01   Definitions
   
50.02   Preparation of refuse and garbage
   
50.03   Containers
   
50.04   Storage of refuse and garbage
   
50.05   Collection practices
   
50.06   Bulk items
 
   
50.99   Penalty
Editor’s note:
   Garbage and refuse service for the city is performed by independent
contractors under agreement with the city.
§ 50.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ASHES. The residue resulting from the burning of wood, coal, coke or other
combustible material.
   DISPOSAL. The storage, collection, disposal or handling of refuse or
garbage.
   GARBAGE. All animal and vegetable wastes resulting from the handling,
preparation, cooking or consumption of foods.
   REFUSE. All solid wastes, except body wastes, and shall include ashes and
rubbish.
   RUBBISH. Glass, metal, paper, plant growth, wood or non-putrescible solid
wastes.
(1997 Code, § 51.01) (Ord. 2-1-03, passed 3-5-2003)
§ 50.02 PREPARATION OF REFUSE AND GARBAGE.
   (A)   All refuse and garbage shall be drained free of liquids before
disposal.
   (B)   Garbage shall be wrapped in paper or similar material.
   (C)   All cans, bottles, or other food containers shall be rinsed free of
food particles and drained before disposal.
   (D)   Rubbish shall be either placed in approved containers, or cut and
baled, tied, bundled, stacked or packaged so as not to exceed 36 inches in
length and 50 pounds in weight.
(1997 Code, § 51.02) (Ord. 2-1-03, passed 3-5-2003) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.03 CONTAINERS.
   (A)   Garbage containers shall be made of durable, water-tight, rust-
resistant material having a fly-tight lid and handles to facilitate collection.
   (B)   Refuse containers shall be made of durable, water-tight, rust-
resistant material having a fly-tight lid and handles to facilitate collection
or if plastic bags are used, they shall be of heavy duty construction and
securely tied.
   (C)   Refuse and garbage containers for a residence shall not be less than
ten gallons, nor more than 32 gallons in capacity. Containers for commercial
establishments shall not exceed 40 gallons in capacity.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful to permit the accumulation or residue of liquids,
solids or a combination of such material on the bottom or sides of containers,
it being the intention of this provision that the interior of containers shall
be kept clean by thorough rinsing and draining as often as necessary.
   (E)   Paper or wooden boxes may be used as containers for rubbish; provided,
such boxes when filled do not exceed 32 pounds in weight. Large stones and hot
ashes will not be collected.
   (F)   Large containers to be handled to special equipment may be used if the
contract collection has equipment to handle such containers. The containers
must have fly-tight lids and be placed on the premises where the collector has
ready access.
(1997 Code, § 51.03) (Ord. 2-1-03, passed 3-5-2003) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.04 STORAGE OF REFUSE AND GARBAGE.
   (A)   Each householder having refuse and/or garbage shall provide himself or
herself with approved refuse and garbage containers and shall place and keep
all refuse and/or garbage therein.
   (B)   Containers shall not be placed on the street right-of-way prior to 6:
00 p.m., local time, on the day before scheduled collections, and shall be
removed to the rear of the premises before 9:30 a.m., local time, the day
following scheduled collections.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful to place refuse or garbage in any street, alley,
street, body of water or any other public place, or upon private property,
whether owned or not, unless the refuse or garbage is placed in an approved
container.
(1997 Code, § 51.04) (Ord. 2-1-03, passed 3-5-2003) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.05 COLLECTION PRACTICES.
   (A)   For the purpose of collection, refuse and garbage containers shall be
placed at ground level, and be made readily accessible to the collector. They
shall be on the side of the street from which collection is to be made.
   (B)   Notwithstanding the provisions of division (A) above, householders,
commercial establishments or other persons may, by contract with collectors, be
permitted to place containers at agreed places upon their premises.
   (C)   Hotels, restaurants, institutions, and commercial establishments may
be required to have more frequent collection, if determined by the City Council
to be essential to protect the public health.
(1997 Code, § 51.05) (Ord. 2-1-03, passed 3-5-2003)
§ 50.06 BULK ITEMS.
   Owners and/or their tenants shall encapsulate and securely wrap in plastic
any upholstered furniture, mattresses, pillows, cushions, box springs and
similar items placed out for collection or otherwise placed in the public
right-of-way.
(Ord. 6-1-13, passed 7-3-2013) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and shall be fined not less than $10, nor more than $500, or
imprisoned for not more than 30 days, or both, for each offense or violation.
(1997 Code, § 51.99) (Ord. 2-1-03, passed 3-5-2003)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
71.   TRAFFIC RULES
      
72.   PARKING REGULATIONS
      
73.   RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
      
74.   PARADES
      
75.   TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
      
76.   PARKING SCHEDULES
CHAPTER 70: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
70.01   Definitions
   
70.02   Required obedience to traffic directions
   
70.03   Powers and duties of Police Department
   
70.04   Authority for enforcement
   
70.05   Temporary regulations
   
70.06   Authority to erect signs
   
70.07   Adoption of state law
   
70.08   Parking zones for persons with disabilities
Traffic-Control Devices
   
70.20   Signal legends
   
70.21   Establishment and maintenance of traffic-control devices
   
70.22   Obedience to signals
   
70.23   Interference with signals
   
70.24   Unauthorized signals or markings
   
70.25   Device to be legible and in proper position
   
70.26   Temporary disregard of devices by police officers
 
   
70.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 70.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this traffic code, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLES. Vehicles of the Fire Department or Police
Department, vehicles of the Commonwealth Attorney’s office when on official
business and ambulances on an authorized emergency run.
   BOULEVARD. Any legally designated street at which cross-traffic is required
to stop before entering or crossing the BOULEVARD.
   BUSINESS DISTRICT. Any portion of any street between two consecutive
intersections in which 50% or more of the frontage on either side of the street
is used for business purposes.
   CROSSWALK. The portion of the roadway included within the extension of the
sidewalk across any intersection, and other portions of the roadway between two
intersections that may be legally designated as crossing places and marked by
stanchions, paint lines or otherwise.
   CURB. The boundary of that portion of the street used for vehicles, whether
marked by curbstones or not.
   INTERSECTION. The part of the public way embraced within the extensions of
the street lines of two or more streets which join at an angle, whether or not
one street crosses the other.
   OFFICIAL TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES. All signs, signals, warnings, directions,
markings and devices placed or erected or maintained by authority of the Chief
of Police.
   ONE-WAY STREET. A street on which vehicles are permitted to move in one
direction only.
   OPERATOR. Every person who is in actual physical control of the guidance,
starting and stopping of a vehicle.
   PARK. When applied to vehicles, to leave a vehicle standing, whether
occupied or not, for a period of time longer than is necessary to receive or
discharge passengers or property.
   PEDESTRIAN. Any person afoot.
   PLAY STREET. Any street or portion thereof so designated by the Chief of
Police and reserved as a play area for children, from which all traffic is
barred, except vehicles to and from abutting properties.
   POLICE DEPARTMENT. The Police Department or other persons or agency
authorized to perform the duties of §
70.03 of this chapter or any other acts necessary to implement and enforce this
traffic code.
   PUBLIC WAY. The entire width between property lines of every way, dedicated
passway or street set aside for public travel, except bridle paths and
footpaths.
   REVERSE TURN. To turn a vehicle on any street in such a manner as to proceed
in the opposite direction.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY. The privilege of the immediate and preferential use of the
street.
   ROADWAY. The portion of any street, improved, designated or ordinarily used
for vehicular travel.
   SIDEWALK. The portion of the street between the curb and the property line
intended for the use of pedestrians.
   STOPPING. As applied to vehicles, to stop a vehicle longer than is actually
necessary to receive or discharge passengers.
   STREET. Every public way, including alleys.
   TRAFFIC. Pedestrians, ridden or herded animals, vehicles, buses and other
conveyances, individually or collectively, while using any street for the
purpose of travel.
   VEHICLE. Every device in, on or by which any person or property is or may be
transported or drawn on any street, except devices moved by human power or used
exclusively on stationary rails or tracks.
(1997 Code, § 70.01)
§ 70.02 REQUIRED OBEDIENCE TO TRAFFIC DIRECTIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to fail or refuse to comply with
any lawful order, signal or direction given by a uniformed police officer, or
to fail or refuse to comply with any of the traffic regulations of this traffic
code.
   (B)   The provisions of this traffic code shall apply to the driver of any
vehicle owned or used in the service of the United States government, the
state, county or city, and it shall be unlawful for any driver to violate any
of the provisions of this traffic code, except as otherwise permitted in this
traffic code or by state statute.
   (C)   Every person propelling any pushcart or riding a bicycle or an animal
on any roadway, and every person driving any animal on any roadway, and every
person driving any animal-drawn vehicle shall be subject to the provisions of
this traffic code applicable to the driver of any vehicle, except those
provisions of this traffic code which, by their very nature, can have no
application.
(1997 Code, § 70.02) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.03 POWERS AND DUTIES OF POLICE DEPARTMENT.
   It shall be the duty of the Police Department to direct all traffic in
conformance with this traffic code and to enforce the traffic regulations as
set forth in this traffic code, to make arrest for traffic violations, to
investigate accidents, and to cooperate with other officers of the city in the
administration of the traffic laws, and in developing ways and means to improve
traffic conditions.
(1997 Code, § 70.03)
§ 70.04 AUTHORITY FOR ENFORCEMENT.
   Authority to direct and enforce all traffic regulations of the city in
accordance with the provisions of this traffic code and to make arrests for
traffic violations is given to the Police Department and, except in case of
emergency, it shall be unlawful for any other person to direct or attempt to
direct traffic by voice, hand, whistle or any other signal.
(1997 Code, § 70.04) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.05 TEMPORARY REGULATIONS.
   When required for the convenience and safety of the public and to alleviate
unusual traffic problems, the Chief of Police or other authorized city official
shall, at his or her discretion, have authority to impose traffic regulations
as he or she may deem necessary for temporary periods not to exceed two weeks.
If these temporary regulations are necessary for a period longer than two
weeks, the City Clerk shall be notified in writing of the extended order.
(1997 Code, § 70.05)
§ 70.06 AUTHORITY TO ERECT SIGNS.
   (A)   The Chief of Police or other authorized city official shall mark with
proper signs and signals such major and through streets as have been or may
hereafter be so designated by ordinances enacted by the legislative body.
   (B)   The Chief of Police or other authorized city official shall erect and
maintain suitable signs for the designation of one-way streets.
(1997 Code, § 70.06)
§ 70.07 ADOPTION OF STATE LAW.
   There is hereby adopted by reference the state motor vehicle laws, being KRS
Chapter 186 through 190, which shall be in full force and effect in the city as
if fully set forth herein.
(1997 Code, § 70.07)
§ 70.08 PARKING ZONES FOR PERSONS WITH DISABILITIES.
   (A)   Any person requesting that the city establish a parking zone for the
use of persons with disabilities shall submit a written request to the
Chairperson of the city’s Road and Light Committee, which written request shall
designate a reasonable location for the parking zone, and which written
statement shall be accompanied by written proof of disability as is required
for issuance of parking permits for persons with disabilities that are
available from the commonwealth or its agencies and officials, and a deposit in
an amount as determined by the Chairperson of the city’s Road and Light
Committee for any expenses incurred by the city in designating the parking zone
for persons with disabilities. Any amounts not expended by the city from the
deposit shall be returned to the applicant.
   (B)   After review by the city’s Road and Light Committee Chairperson, the
Chairperson is authorized to designate the area requested, or a nearby
accommodating area, as a parking zone for persons with disabilities, and shall
be authorized to erect such signage and markers as may be necessary to clearly
designate the area as a parking zone for persons with disabilities, which zone
shall, however, not be for the exclusive use of the applicant, but shall be
open for use by any vehicle displaying a parking permit for persons with
disabilities.
   (C)   Acting upon information and belief, the Chairperson of the city’s Road
and Light Committee is further authorized to terminate a parking zone for
persons with disabilities upon notice of a change of circumstances rendering
the previously established parking zone for persons with disabilities no longer
necessary or no longer reasonable.
(1997 Code, § 70.08) (Ord. 8-1-01, passed 8-1-2001; Ord. 6-1-2016, passed 7-6-
2016)
TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES
§ 70.20 SIGNAL LEGENDS.
   Whenever traffic is regulated or controlled exclusively by a traffic-control
sign or signs exhibiting the words “Go”, “Caution” or “Stop”, or exhibiting
different colored lights for purposes of traffic control, the following colors
only shall be used, and these terms and lights shall indicate and be obeyed as
follows.
   (A)   Green alone or “Go”. Vehicular traffic facing the signal may proceed
straight through or turn right or left unless a sign at such place prohibits
either such turn. However, vehicular traffic shall yield the right-of-way to
other vehicles and to pedestrians lawfully within the intersection at the time
such signal is exhibited.
   (B)   Steady yellow alone or “Caution” when shown following the green or
“Go” signal. Vehicular traffic facing a steady yellow signal is thereby warned
that the related green movement is being terminated or that a red indication
will be exhibited immediately thereafter when vehicular traffic shall not enter
the intersection. Vehicular traffic facing a steady yellow signal may enter and
clear the intersection.
   (C)   Red alone or double red or “Stop”. Vehicular traffic facing the signal
shall stop before entering the nearest crosswalk at an intersection or at such
other point as may be indicated by a clearly visible line, and shall remain
standing until green or “Go” is shown alone.
   (D)   Flashing red alone. Vehicular traffic facing the signal shall stop
before entering the nearest crosswalk at an intersection or at such other point
as may be indicated by a clearly visible line, and shall not again proceed
until it can do so without danger.
   (E)   Flashing amber alone. Vehicular traffic facing the signal shall reduce
its speed and proceed cautiously across the intersection controlled by such
signal.
   (F)   “Yield Right-of-Way”. Vehicular traffic facing the “Yield Right-of-
Way” sign shall bear the primary responsibility of safely entering the primary
intersecting or merging right-of-way. All traffic facing the sign shall yield
the right-of-way to all vehicles and pedestrians within such primary
intersecting or merging right-of-way. No vehicle facing a “Yield Right-of-Way”
sign shall enter the merging or intersecting right-of-way at a speed in excess
of 15 mph; except that, this speed limit shall not apply to vehicles entering
an expressway.
   (G)   Lane lights. When lane lights are installed over any street for the
purpose of controlling the direction of flow of traffic, vehicular traffic
shall move only in traffic lanes over which green arrows appear. However, when
flashing amber lights appear above a lane all left turns shall be made from
that lane. Where red arrows appear above such lanes, vehicles shall not move
against them. If flashing amber lights show above a lane, that lane shall be
used only for passing and for left turns unless a sign at such place prohibits
such turn.
(1997 Code, § 70.15) Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Traffic-control signals, see KRS 189.338
§ 70.21 ESTABLISHMENT AND MAINTENANCE OF TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES.
   (A)   The city shall establish and maintain all official traffic-control
devices necessary within the city. All traffic-control devices, including
signs, shall be employed to indicate one particular warning or regulation,
shall be uniform, and as far as possible shall be placed uniformly. All
traffic-control devices and signs shall conform to required state
specifications.
   (B)   All signs, signals, markings and other devices placed or erected at
the time of the adoption of this code, and in use for the purpose of
regulating, warning or guiding traffic, are hereby affirmed, ratified, and
declared to be official traffic-control devices; provided, such traffic-control
devices are not inconsistent with the provisions of this chapter or state law.
(1997 Code, § 70.16)
§ 70.22 OBEDIENCE TO SIGNALS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the driver of any vehicle to disobey the
signal of any official traffic-control device placed in accordance with the
provisions of this traffic code or of a traffic barrier or sign erected by any
of the public departments or public utilities of the city, or any electric
signal, gate or watchman at railroad crossings, unless otherwise directed by a
police officer. However, the type and the right to or necessity for such
barrier or sign must be approved by the city.
   (B)   Such sign, signal, marking or barrier shall have the same authority as
the personal direction of a police officer.
(1997 Code, § 70.17) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.23 INTERFERENCE WITH SIGNALS.
   No person shall without authority attempt to or in fact alter, deface,
injure, knock down or remove any official control device or any railroad sign
or signal, or any inscription, shield or insignia thereon, or any part thereof.
(1997 Code, § 70.18) Penalty see §
70.99
§ 70.24 UNAUTHORIZED SIGNALS OR MARKINGS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, maintain or display on
or in view of any street any unauthorized sign, signal, marking or device which
purports to be or is an imitation of or resembles an official traffic device or
railroad sign or signal which attempts or purports to direct the movement of
traffic, or which conceals or hides from view or interferes with the
effectiveness of any official control device or any railroad sign or signal. No
person shall place or maintain, nor shall any public authority permit on any
street, any traffic sign or signal any commercial advertising. Nothing in this
section shall be construed as restricting any public department or public
utility of the city in any emergency or temporarily from marking or erecting
any traffic barrier or sign whose placing has been approved by the city.
   (B)   Every such prohibited sign, signal or marking is declared to be a
public nuisance and the city is empowered forthwith to remove it or cause it to
be removed.
(1997 Code, § 70.19) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.25 DEVICE TO BE LEGIBLE AND IN PROPER POSITION.
   No provision of this traffic code for which signs or any other traffic-
control device is required shall be enforceable against an alleged violator if
at the time and place of the alleged violation the required device was not in
proper position and sufficiently legible to be seen by an ordinarily observant
person.
(1997 Code, § 70.20)
§ 70.26 TEMPORARY DISREGARD OF DEVICES BY POLICE OFFICERS.
   In an emergency any police officer may, at his or her discretion, disregard
traffic-control lights or signals or established regulations in order to
facilitate the movement of traffic.
(1997 Code, § 70.21)
§ 70.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any provision of this traffic code where no other penalty
is specifically provided shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be fined
not less than $20, nor more than $500.
(1997 Code, § 70.99)
CHAPTER 71: TRAFFIC RULES
Section
Operation Generally
   
71.01   Obstructing traffic
   
71.02   Reverse or U-turns
   
71.03   Backing vehicles
   
71.04   Vehicles crossing sidewalks
   
71.05   Speed limits
Accidents
   
71.20   Duty of operator
   
71.21   Accident report
Prohibitions
   
71.35   Operator of vehicle to drive carefully
   
71.36   Right-of-way of emergency vehicles; following emergency vehicles;
driving over fire hose
   
71.37   Smoke emission or other nuisance
   
71.38   Trucks prohibited on city streets
 
   
71.99   Penalty
OPERATION GENERALLY
§ 71.01 OBSTRUCTING TRAFFIC.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to operate any vehicle or permit it to remain
standing in any street in such manner as to create an obstruction thereof.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to enter any
intersection or crosswalk unless there is sufficient space on the other side of
the intersection or crosswalk to accommodate the vehicle without obstructing
the passage of other vehicles or pedestrians, notwithstanding the indication of
any traffic-control signal which may be located at the intersection or
crosswalk.
   (C)   Any intersection deemed by the city to be of special or critical
importance to the movement of traffic shall be marked in a distinctive manner
in order to indicate its importance. Should the operator of any vehicle enter
any intersection so marked when there is insufficient room on the other side of
the intersection to accommodate the vehicle, the indication of any traffic-
control signal notwithstanding, he or she shall be deemed to have violated this
division (C) rather than division (B) above.
(1997 Code, § 71.01) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.02 REVERSE OR U-TURNS.
   The operator of any vehicle shall not turn the vehicle so as to proceed in
the opposite direction unless the movement can be made in safety without
interfering with other traffic.
(KRS 189.330(8)) (1997 Code, § 71.02) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.03 BACKING VEHICLES.
   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to back the vehicle at
any intersection for the purpose of executing a turning movement. A vehicle
from any parking position shall be backed by the operator in such manner as to
proceed on the same side of the roadway in the lawful direction of travel.
(1997 Code, § 71.03) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.04 VEHICLES CROSSING SIDEWALKS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to drive within
any sidewalk space, except at a permanent or temporary driveway or by special
permit from the Chief of Police or other authorized city official.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to drive the
vehicle out of any alley, driveway, building or lot and across a sidewalk, or
its extension across the alley, unless the vehicle has been brought to a
complete stop immediately prior to crossing the sidewalk or its extension. On
entering the roadway from the alley, driveway or building, the operator shall
yield the right-of-way to all vehicles approaching on the roadway. The operator
of any vehicle intending to cross a sidewalk and turn into an alley from the
roadway may do so at low speed and with caution.
(1997 Code, § 71.04) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.05 SPEED LIMITS.
   Pursuant to KRS 189.390, the maximum speed limit for vehicles and vehicular
traffic on all streets in the city, except those specifically excluded below,
shall be 20 mph. The streets excluded from the maximum 20 mph speed limit are
Kentucky State Route 8 (Pike Street), Bromley-Crescent Springs Road, and Main
Street.
(1997 Code, § 71.05) (Ord. 7-1-97, passed 7-12-1997)
ACCIDENTS
§ 71.20 DUTY OF OPERATOR.
   It shall be the duty of the owner of, operator of or passenger in any motor
vehicle which is involved in an accident, in which any person is injured or
property damaged, to stop immediately and ascertain the extent of the injury or
damage and render any assistance as may be needed.
(1997 Code, § 71.15) Penalty, see §
71.99
Statutory reference:
   Duty in case of accident, see KRS 189.580
§ 71.21 ACCIDENT REPORT.
   The operator, owner or passenger involved in an accident resulting in the
injury or death of any person, or an accident in which property is damaged,
shall immediately report the accident or property damage to the Police
Department.
(1997 Code, § 71.16) Penalty, see §
71.99
PROHIBITIONS
§ 71.35 OPERATOR OF VEHICLE TO DRIVE CAREFULLY.
   (A)   The operator of any vehicle upon a highway shall operate the vehicle
in a careful manner, with regard for the safety and convenience of pedestrians
and other vehicles upon the highway.
   (B)   No person shall willfully operate any vehicle on any highway in such a
manner as to injure the highway.
(KRS 189.290) (1997 Code, § 71.25) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.36 RIGHT-OF-WAY OF EMERGENCY VEHICLES; FOLLOWING EMERGENCY VEHICLES;
DRIVING OVER FIRE HOSE.
   (A)   Upon the approach of an emergency vehicle equipped with, and
operating, one or more flashing, rotating or oscillating red or blue lights
visible under normal conditions from a distance of 500 feet to the front of the
vehicle; or when the driver is giving audible signal by siren, exhaust whistle
or bell, the driver of every other vehicle shall yield the right-of-way,
immediately drive to a position parallel to and as close as possible to the
edge or curb of the highway clear of any intersection and stop and remain in
that position until the emergency vehicle has passed, except when otherwise
directed by a police officer or firefighter.
   (B)   Upon the approach of any emergency vehicle operated in conformity with
the provisions of division (A) above, the operator of every vehicle shall
immediately stop clear of any intersection and shall keep that position until
the emergency vehicle has passed, unless directed otherwise by a police officer
or firefighter.
   (C)   No operator of any vehicle, unless he or she is on official business,
shall follow any emergency vehicle being operated in conformity with the
provisions of division (A) above closer than 500 feet, nor shall he or she
drive into, park the vehicle into or park the vehicle within the block where
the vehicle has stopped in answer to an emergency call or alarm, unless he or
she is directed otherwise by a police officer or firefighter.
   (D)   No vehicle, train or other equipment shall be driven over any
unprotected hose of a Fire Department when the hose is laid down on any street,
private driveway or track for use at any fire alarm unless the Fire Department
official in command consents that the hose be driven over.
   (E)   Upon approaching a stationary emergency vehicle or public safety
vehicle, when the emergency vehicle or public safety vehicle is giving a signal
by displaying alternately flashing yellow, red, red and white, red and blue, or
blue lights, a person who drives an approaching vehicle shall either, while
proceeding with due caution:
      (1)   Yield the right-of-way by moving to a lane not adjacent to that of
the authorized emergency vehicle, if:
         (a)   The person is driving on a highway having at least four lanes
with not fewer than two lanes proceeding in the same direction as the
approaching vehicle; and
         (b)   If it is possible to make the lane change with due regard to
safety and traffic conditions.
      (2)   Reduce the speed of the vehicle, maintaining a safe speed to road
conditions, if changing lanes would be impossible or unsafe.
   (F)   This section does not operate to relieve the person who drives an
emergency vehicle from the duty to operate the vehicle with due regard for the
safety of all persons using the highway.
(KRS 189.930) (1997 Code, § 71.26) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.37 SMOKE EMISSION OR OTHER NUISANCE.
   Every vehicle when on a highway shall be so equipped as to make a minimum of
noise, smoke or other nuisance, to protect the rights of other traffic and to
promote the public safety.
(KRS 189.020) (1997 Code, § 71.27) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.38 TRUCKS PROHIBITED ON CITY STREETS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to drive any truck on the city streets, except
for the purpose of making delivery or picking up a load, within the city
corporate boundaries, in which case such vehicle may be driven on such streets
for not more than the minimum distance necessary for that purpose.
   (B)   TRUCK, as used in this section, shall be defined as a motor vehicle
which has a weight designation of one ton (2,000 pounds) or more.
(1997 Code, § 71.28) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter for which no other
penalty is specifically provided shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be
fined not less than $20, nor more than $500.
   (B)   Any person who violates §
71.05 of this chapter shall be subject to a fine in accordance with the
schedule of fines established under KRS 189.394.
   (C)   Any person who violates §
71.36 of this chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be fined not
less than $60, nor more than $500, or be imprisoned in the county jail for not
more than 30 days, or both.
(KRS 189.993(8)) (1997 Code, § 71.99)
CHAPTER 72: PARKING REGULATIONS
Section
Parking Generally
   
72.01   Obstructional parking; double parking
   
72.02   Manner of parking
   
72.03   Limitations of stopping and parking
   
72.04   Restrictions and prohibitions on designated streets
   
72.05   Parking restricted to allow street cleaning
   
72.06   Parking in excess of certain number of hours prohibited; towing
authorized
   
72.07   Parking on parade route
   
72.08   Parking on off-street facility
   
72.09   Owner responsibility
   
72.10   Parking in parks
   
72.11   Display of parked vehicle for sale
   
72.12   Parking with permits for persons with disabilities
   
72.13   Parking recreational vehicles
   
72.14   Parking trucks and trailers in residential section
   
72.15   Parking trailers in parking areas along public streets
Impounding
   
72.25   Impoundment of vehicles authorized; redemption
   
72.26   Required notice to owner
   
72.27   Sale of vehicle
Snow Emergency
   
72.40   Announcement of snow emergency
   
72.41   Termination of emergency
   
72.42   Snow emergency routes
 
   
72.99   Penalty
PARKING GENERALLY
§ 72.01 OBSTRUCTIONAL PARKING; DOUBLE PARKING.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to leave any vehicle or any other
thing that may be a nuisance, obstruction or hindrance in or on any street,
alley or sidewalk within the city either during the day or night.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to stop or park any vehicle on the
roadway side of any other vehicle stopped or parked at the edge or curb of a
street.
(1997 Code, § 72.01) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.02 MANNER OF PARKING.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to stop or park
the vehicle in a manner other than with its right-hand side toward and parallel
with the curb; except that, where parking is permitted on the left side of a
one-way street, the left-hand side shall be so parked and except for commercial
loading and unloading on one-way streets.
   (B)   No vehicle shall be parked or left standing on any street unless its
two right wheels are within six inches of and parallel with the curb; except
that, on one-way streets where parking is permitted on the left side, the two
left wheels are to be within six inches of and parallel with the curb.
   (C)   No vehicle shall be backed to the curb on any street; except that,
wagons and trucks may do so when loading and unloading; provided that, the
loading and unloading and delivery of property and material shall not consume
more than 30 minutes. This backing of trucks or wagons is prohibited at all
times and on all streets in the city where any truck or wagon so backed
interferes with the use of the roadway by moving vehicles or occupies road
space within ten feet of the centerline of the street.
   (D)   The city may establish diagonal parking at certain places, requiring
the parking of vehicles at a certain angle to the curb and within a certain
portion of the roadway adjacent thereto. However, diagonal parking shall not be
established where the roadway space required therefor would be within ten feet
of the centerline of any street. The diagonal parking places shall be
designated by suitable signs, and shall indicate by markings on the pavement
the required angle and the width of the roadway space within which the vehicle
shall park.
   (E)   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to so park the
vehicle that any part thereof shall extend beyond the lines marking the side or
the rear of the space assigned for one vehicle.
(1997 Code, § 72.02) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.03 LIMITATIONS OF STOPPING AND PARKING.
   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to stop or park such
vehicle, except in a case of real emergency or in compliance with the
provisions of this traffic code or when directed by a police officer or traffic
sign or signal at any time in the following places:
   (A)   On the mainly-traveled portion of any roadway or on any other place in
the roadway where vehicles stand in any manner other than as specified in §
72.02 of this chapter;
   (B)   At any place where official signs prohibit stopping or parking;
   (C)   On a sidewalk;
   (D)   Within four feet of a public or private driveway or garage;
   (E)   Within eight feet of a fire hydrant;
   (F)   Within a crosswalk;
   (G)   Alongside or opposite any street excavation or obstruction when
stopping or parking would obstruct traffic;
   (H)   Close enough to any railroad track so as to obstruct the movement of
locomotives or cars;
   (I)   On that portion of public property located between the sidewalk and
the curb line of the street;
   (J)   In front of sidewalk ramps provided for handicapped persons;
   (K)   Within 30 feet upon the approach to any flashing beacon, stop sign or
traffic-control signal located at the side of a roadway;
   (L)   Within 25 feet of an intersection where traffic-control signs or
devices are not located at the side of a roadway; and
   (M)   Within an area designated as a bus stop.
(1997 Code, § 72.03) (Ord. 5-1-83, passed 6-14-1983) Penalty, see §
72.99
Statutory reference:
   Limitations of stopping and parking, see KRS 189.450(5), (6)
§ 72.04 RESTRICTIONS AND PROHIBITIONS ON DESIGNATED STREETS.
   (A)   The provisions of this section prohibiting the stopping and parking of
a vehicle shall apply at all times or at those times herein specified or as
indicated on official signs, except when it is necessary to stop a vehicle to
avoid conflict with other traffic or in compliance with the directions of a
police officer or official traffic-control devices.
   (B)   The provisions of this section imposing a time limit on parking shall
not relieve any person from his or her duty to observe other and more
restrictive provisions prohibiting or limiting the stopping or parking of
vehicles in specific places or at specified times.
   (C)   When signs are erected in compliance with the provisions of division
(F) below giving notice thereof, no person shall park a vehicle at any time on
any street so marked by official signs.
   (D)   When a curb has been painted in compliance with the provisions of
division (F) below, no person shall park a vehicle at any time at or adjacent
to any curb so marked.
   (E)   When signs are erected in compliance with the provisions of division
(F) below, in each block giving notice thereof, no person shall park a vehicle
between the hours specified by official signs on any day, except Sundays on any
street so marked.
   (F)   (1)   The city shall determine on what streets or portions thereof
stopping or parking shall be restricted or prohibited.
      (2)   Whenever under authority of or by this traffic code or any other
ordinance any parking limit is imposed or parking is prohibited on designated
streets, or parking areas are restricted to parking for persons with
disabilities, appropriate signs shall be erected giving notice thereof.
      (3)   However, in lieu of erecting the signs or in conjunction therewith,
the face and top of a curb or curbs at or adjacent to which parking is
prohibited at all times may be painted a solid yellow color.
      (4)   No regulations or restrictions shall be effective unless the signs
have been erected and are in place or the curbs are painted yellow at the time
of any alleged offense, except in the case of those parking restrictions which,
by their very nature, would not require the signs and markings.
   (G)   When signs are erected in compliance with division (F) above in each
block giving notice thereof, no person shall park a vehicle for a time longer
than specified on official signs any day, except Sunday and on any street so
marked.
(1997 Code, § 72.04) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.05 PARKING RESTRICTED TO ALLOW STREET CLEANING.
   (A)   The city is authorized to designate street cleaning areas and shall
provide suitable signs and markings on the street to be cleaned, restricting
parking on that particular day.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to stop on any
street so designated.
(1997 Code, § 72.05) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.06 PARKING IN EXCESS OF CERTAIN NUMBER OF HOURS PROHIBITED; TOWING
AUTHORIZED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for anyone to park in any one place any vehicle
on any of the public ways or streets of the city for a period of 72 hours or
longer.
   (B)   Any vehicle left parked in any one place on any of the public ways or
streets of the city for a period of 72 hours or longer shall be deemed
abandoned, and shall be subject to all existing regulations of the city
pertaining to abandoned motor vehicles.
(1997 Code, § 72.06) (Ord. 6-1-06, passed 7-5-2006) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.07 PARKING ON PARADE ROUTE.
   (A)   The Chief of Police or other authorized city official shall have the
authority whenever, in his or her judgment, it is necessary to prohibit or
restrict the parking of vehicles along a street or part thereof constituting a
part of the route of a parade or procession, to erect temporary traffic signs
to that effect and to prohibit and prevent parking.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to park or leave unattended any vehicle in
violation of the signs or directions.
(1997 Code, § 72.07) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.08 PARKING ON OFF-STREET FACILITY.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the driver of a motor vehicle to park or
abandon the vehicle or drive on or otherwise trespass on another’s property, or
on an area developed as an off-street parking facility, without the consent of
the owner, lessee or person in charge of the property or facility.
   (B)   If, at any time, a vehicle is parked, abandoned or otherwise
trespasses in violation of division (A) above, the owner, lessee or person in
charge of the property or facility may have the unauthorized motor vehicle
removed in accordance with the provisions of §§
72.25 through
72.27 of this chapter.
   (C)   Every property owner or operator of an off-street parking facility
shall post signs stating thereon that the property or parking lot or facility
is privately owned and that an unauthorized vehicle will be removed at the
owner’s expense before exercising the authority granted in division (B) above.
(1997 Code, § 72.08) Penalty, see §
72.99
Statutory reference:
   Removal of vehicles by owners of private parking lots; signs, see KRS
189.725
§ 72.09 OWNER RESPONSIBILITY.
   If any vehicle is found illegally parked in violation of any provisions of
this subchapter regulating stopping, standing or parking of vehicles, and the
identity of the driver cannot be determined, the owner or person in whose name
the vehicle is registered shall be held prima facie responsible for the
violation.
(1997 Code, § 72.09) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.10 PARKING IN PARKS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to park any motor vehicle in or on any
section of any public park, playground, play lot or tot lot within the city not
designed as a parking area or designed and regularly maintained as a roadway.
However, nothing contained in this section shall be construed as prohibiting
the parking of a motor vehicle parallel to a designated and regularly
maintained roadway in any park or playground where at least two wheels of the
motor vehicle are resting on the roadway.
(1997 Code, § 72.10) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.11 DISPLAY OF PARKED VEHICLE FOR SALE.
   It shall be unlawful to park a motor vehicle displayed for sale or a motor
vehicle on which demonstrations are being made on any street.
(1997 Code, § 72.11) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.12 PARKING WITH PERMITS FOR PERSONS WITH DISABILITIES.
   (A)   Any other provision to the contrary notwithstanding, a motor vehicle
bearing a decal in its front windshield issued by the County Clerk pursuant to
appropriate county ordinances for persons with disabilities, when operated by a
person with disabilities or when transporting a person with disabilities, may
be parked in a designated parking place or, when parked in a metered parking
space, may be parked for two hours for no fee, or when parked where any parking
limit is imposed may be parked for two hours in excess of the parking limit.
The motor vehicle may be parked in a loading zone for that period of time
necessary to permit entrance or exit of the person with disabilities to or from
the parked vehicle, but in no circumstances longer than 30 minutes.
   (B)   This section shall not permit parking in a “no-stopping” or “no-
parking” zone nor where parking is prohibited for the purpose of creating a
fire lane or to accommodate heavy traffic during morning, afternoon or evening
hours, nor permit a motor vehicle to be parked in such a manner as to
constitute a traffic hazard.
(1997 Code, § 72.12) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.13 PARKING RECREATIONAL VEHICLES.
   (A)   RECREATIONAL VEHICLES include campers, trailers, boats, house
trailers, mobile homes or any other such device designed to be mounted upon any
other motor vehicle, towed behind any motor vehicle, or in any way integrated
into a movable, temporary housing facility.
   (B)   No person shall allow a recreational vehicle, not in daily use, to be
parked or otherwise located on a public street, or between the front property
line and the setback line as established by city ordinance, on any property
located in the city.
   (C)   All recreational vehicles must be stored in an inconspicuous manner so
as not to detract from the residential atmosphere of the community, nor may
such vehicles be parked or stored so as to create a nuisance condition as
defined by the ordinances of the city.
(1997 Code, § 72.13) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.14 PARKING TRUCKS AND TRAILERS IN RESIDENTIAL SECTION.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to park a truck over one ton capacity
with six or more weight-bearing wheels in any residential section for longer
than one hour, except when loading or unloading.
(1997 Code, § 72.14) (Ord. 11-1-98, passed 12-5-1998; Ord. 4-1-99, passed 5-1-
1999)
§ 72.15 PARKING TRAILERS IN PARKING AREAS ALONG PUBLIC STREETS.
   (A)   Definition. For purposes of this section, TRAILER is defined as a non-
self-propelled, wheeled vehicle or conveyance generally and customarily used to
carry or haul materials, equipment, or other items by means of towing or being
pulled by another motorized vehicle, and it also includes non-self-propelled
recreational campers.
   (B)   Prohibited acts.
      (1)   No person shall load or unload a trailer in any parking area along
a public street in the city unless it is attached for towing to a motor vehicle
while loading or unloading.
      (2)   No person shall park or leave a trailer in any parking area of a
public street in the city unless they are actively engaged in the process of
loading or unloading the trailer.
      (3)   No person shall park or leave a trailer in any parking area on a
public street in the city for more than two hours in any 24-hour period.
      (4)   In the event of exigent circumstances caused by weather, traffic,
or other such unexpected conditions or circumstances, or with the prior written
consent of the Mayor or a member of the law enforcement department providing
police services to the city, the restrictions and limitations of divisions (B)
(1) and (B)(2) of this section may be waived or extended for a reasonable time
until the exigent circumstance or period of the written extension has ended.
   (C)   Impoundment, towing, storage and disposition on non-payment.
      (1)   In addition to issuing a citation for violations of this section,
all police officers are empowered to authorize the impoundment of a trailer
parked in violation of same.
      (2)   A trailer impounded pursuant to division (C)(1) of this section
will be tagged and placed under control of the Police Department or will be
towed. Should a vehicle be moved without the consent and approval of the Police
Department after being tagged under this section, a warrant shall be issued
immediately for the violator’s arrest.
      (3)   All fines, fees, and charges must be paid in full before a release
of an impounded trailer can be issued for the trailer’s release.
      (4)   When a trailer has been involuntarily towed or transported pursuant
to order of police, the police shall attempt to ascertain the identity and
address of the owner of the trailer, and within ten business days of the
removal shall by mail attempt to notify the owner at such address the police
believe the owner may receive the notice. The notice shall include the
requirements for securing the release of the motor vehicle.
      (5)   If a trailer is towed or transported pursuant to division (C)(4)
and is placed in a garage or other storage facility in the city, the owner of
the facility shall attempt to provide notice in addition to and consistent with
the notice described in division (C)(4) by certified mail to the owner of the
trailer. This notice shall also inform the owner of the trailer of the
requirements for securing the release of the trailer including payment of all
fines, fees and costs due to the city and the owner.
      (6)   Any person engaged in the business of storing or towing motor
vehicles in either a private capacity or for the city who has substantially
complied with the requirements of division (C)(5) above shall have a lien on
the trailer for the reasonable charges for storing or towing the trailer as
long as it remains in his or her possession. If after a period of 45 days, the
reasonable charges for storing and towing a trailer have not been paid, the
trailer may be sold to pay the charges after the owner has been notified by
certified mail ten days prior to the time and place of the sale. If the
proceeds of the sale of any vehicle pursuant to this section are insufficient
to satisfy accrued charges for towing, transporting, and storage, the sale and
collection of proceeds shall not constitute a waiver or release of
responsibility for payment of unpaid towing, transporting, and storage charges
by the owner or responsible casualty insurer of the vehicle.
(Ord. 5-1-20, passed 6-3-2020) Penalty, see §
72.99
IMPOUNDING
§ 72.25 IMPOUNDMENT OF VEHICLES AUTHORIZED; REDEMPTION.
   (A)   All police officers are empowered to authorize the impoundment of a
vehicle violating vehicle-related ordinances once a second citation has been
issued.
   (B)   A vehicle slated for impoundment will be tagged and placed under
control of the Police Department. Should a vehicle be moved without the consent
and approval of the Police Department, a warrant shall be issued immediately
for the violator’s arrest.
   (C)   All fines, fees and charges must be paid in full before a release of
impoundment can be issued for the vehicle’s release.
   (D)   In addition to any other enforcement provisions in this traffic code,
all police officers are empowered to authorize the towing and impoundment of
vehicles parked in violation of restrictions at intersections when appropriate
signage is erected indicating that such areas are “tow zones”, “tow away zones”
or other such language giving notification that vehicles inappropriately parked
are subject to removal.
(1997 Code, § 72.20) (Ord. 12-1-16, passed 1-4-2017)
§ 72.26 REQUIRED NOTICE TO OWNER.
   (A)   When a motor vehicle has been involuntarily towed or transported
pursuant to order of police, other public authority, or private person or
business for any reason; when the vehicle has been stolen or misappropriated,
and its removal from the public ways has been ordered by police, other public
authority or by private person or business; or in any other situation where a
motor vehicle has been involuntarily towed or transported by order of police,
other authority or by private person or business, the police, other authority
or private person or business shall attempt to ascertain from the state’s
Transportation Cabinet the identity of the registered owner of the motor
vehicle or lessor of a motor carrier as defined in KRS Chapter 281 and within
ten business days of the removal shall, by certified mail, attempt to notify
the registered owner at the address of record of the make, model, license
number and vehicle identification number of the vehicle, of the location of the
vehicle, and of the requirements for securing the release of the motor vehicle.
   (B)   If a vehicle described in division (A) above is placed in a garage or
other storage facility, the owner of the facility shall attempt to provide the
notice provided in division (A) above by certified mail to the registered owner
at the address of record of the motor vehicle or lessor of a motor carrier as
defined in KRS Chapter 281 within ten business days of recovery of or taking
possession of the motor vehicle. This notice shall contain the information as
to the make, model, license number and vehicle identification number of the
vehicle, the location of the vehicle and the amount of reasonable charges for
towing, recovery, storage, transporting and other applicable charges due on the
vehicle. When the owner of the facility fails to provide notice as provided
herein, the motor vehicle storage facility shall forfeit all storage fees
accrued after ten business days from the date of tow. This division (B) shall
not apply to a garage or storage facility owned or operated by the city.
(1997 Code, § 72.21)
§ 72.27 SALE OF VEHICLE.
   (A)    Any person engaged in the business of storing or towing motor
vehicles, who has complied with the notification requirements of KRS 281.928,
shall have a lien on the motor vehicle and its contents, except as set forth in
KRS 376.275(2), for the applicable and reasonable charges assessed in
accordance with KRS 281.926 and 281.932, as long as it remains in his or her
possession.
   (B)   If, after a period of 45 days, the applicable and reasonable charges
assessed in accordance with KRS 281.926 and 281.932 have not been paid, the
motor vehicle and its contents, except as set forth in KRS 376.275(2), may be
sold to pay the charges after the owner and any lienholder have been notified
by certified mail at the addresses specified in KRS 281.928(1), ten days prior
to the time and place of the sale. If the proceeds of the sale of any vehicle
pursuant to this section are insufficient to satisfy accrued charges, the sale
and collection of proceeds shall not constitute a waiver or release of
responsibility for payment of unpaid charges by the owner or responsible
casualty insurer of the vehicle. A lien on a vehicle under this division shall
be subject to prior recorded liens, unless released by any existing lienholder
pursuant to division (C) below.
   (C)   A lienholder having a prior recorded lien listed on the title issued
by the Commonwealth of Kentucky shall be notified by certified mail within the
first ten days of impoundment in accordance with KRS 281.928. Such
notification, in addition to the requirements of KRS 281.928, shall include the
make, model, license number, vehicle identification number, owner's name and
last known address, and tentative date of sale for the vehicle, and state that
the towing company or storage facility seeks to obtain a new title free and
clear of any liens, excluding tax liens. If the above-referenced certified
letter is not sent within the ten days by the towing and storage company, then
only ten days of storage may be charged. The lienholder has the right to take
possession of the motor vehicle after showing proof of lien still enforced, and
paying the reasonable or agreed towing and storage charges on the motor
vehicle. If a lienholder does not exercise the right to take possession of the
motor vehicle under this division within 45 days of notification, and all
lienholders agree in writing, the towing company or storage facility may obtain
a new title under KRS 186A.145 free and clear of any liens, excluding tax
liens. Nothing in this section shall allow the transfer of a vehicle subject to
a lien, except as provided in KRS 186A.190.
   (D)   If there are no lienholders required to be notified under KRS 281.920
to 281.936 and 359.230 and this section, and the owner does not exercise the
right to take possession of the motor vehicle under this section within 45 days
of notification required under KRS 281.928, the towing company or storage
facility may obtain a new title under KRS 186A.145 free and clear of any liens,
excluding tax liens.
(KRS 376.275(1)) (1997 Code, § 72.22)
Statutory reference:
   Disposition of contents of motor vehicle, see KRS 376.275(2)
SNOW EMERGENCY
§ 72.40 ANNOUNCEMENT OF SNOW EMERGENCY.
   (A)   Whenever the Chief of Police or other authorized city official finds
that falling snow, sleet or freezing rain will create a condition which makes
it necessary that the parking of motor vehicles on snow emergency routes be
prohibited, or whenever he or she finds on the basis of a firm forecast of
snow, sleet or freezing rain that the weather conditions so forecasted may
create a condition making it necessary that parking be prohibited, he or she is
authorized to announce the prohibition, to become effective at a time specified
by him or her. After the effective time of the prohibition, no person shall
park any vehicle or permit any vehicle to remain parked on a snow emergency
route. However, if a fall of snow, sleet or freezing rain occurs after 11:00
p.m. and prior to 6:00 a.m., and the Chief of Police or other authorized city
official has not announced prior to 11:00 p.m. that parking on snow emergency
routes is to be prohibited after a specified time, a vehicle parked on a snow
emergency route may remain so parked until 7:00 a.m. following the fall.
   (B)   The prohibition of parking announced by the Chief of Police or other
authorized city official under the authority of this section shall remain in
effect until he or she announces the termination of the snow emergency, in part
or in which the prohibition of parking authorized by this section shall no
longer be in effect.
(1997 Code, § 72.35) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.41 TERMINATION OF EMERGENCY.
   (A)   Whenever the Chief of Police or other authorized city official shall
find that some or all of the conditions which gave rise to the snow emergency
prohibition no longer exist, he or she is authorized to declare the termination
of the emergency, in part or in whole, effective immediately on announcement.
   (B)   If the announcement is made other than between 6:00 a.m. and 11:00
p.m., it shall be repeated between those hours.
(1997 Code, § 72.36)
§ 72.42 SNOW EMERGENCY ROUTES.
   The term SNOW EMERGENCY ROUTE shall mean any route designated by the Chief
of Police or other authorized city official. On a street or highway designated
as a SNOW EMERGENCY ROUTE, special signs shall be posted to this effect.
(1997 Code, § 72.37)
§ 72.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter for which no
penalty is provided shall be subject to the terms of §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person receiving a citation for any parking violation in the city
shall be deemed to have committed a violation and shall be fined in an amount
not less than $20, nor more than $100, for each offense.
(KRS 189.990(1))
   (C)   (1)   Violations of §
72.15 may be enforced as a civil violation by the city code enforcement
officers and Code Enforcement Board, subject to the general penalties
established of the Code Enforcement Board and code enforcement ordinance.
      (2)   In addition to enforcement as a civil violation, violations of §
72.15 may also be enforced as a criminal violation, and penalties for
violations shall be as follows:
         (a)   For a first offense in any 12-month period, a fine of between
$100 and $250.
         (b)   For a second and any other subsequent offense from the date of a
prior violation, a fine of between $250 and $500 or incarceration for up to 30
days, or both.
(1997 Code, § 72.99) (Ord. 5-1-20, passed 6-3-2020)
CHAPTER 73: RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
Section
General Provisions
   
73.01   Definitions
   
73.02   Passengers on motorcycles, mopeds, motorized scooters or bicycles
prohibited; exception
   
73.03   Operators must be at least 16 years of age
   
73.04   Driving on sidewalk prohibited
   
73.05   Operator’s license required
   
73.06   Insurance required for motorcycles
   
73.07   Registration of motorcycle required
   
73.08   Motorcycle, motorized scooter and moped operators to obey traffic laws
Bicycles, Motorized Scooters and Foot Scooters
   
73.20   Effect of regulations
   
73.21   Bicycle dealers
   
73.22   Bicycle riders to obey traffic laws
   
73.23   Obedience to traffic-control devices
   
73.24   Riding on roadways and bicycle paths
   
73.25   Speed of bicycles or motorized scooters
   
73.26   Emerging from alley or driveway
   
73.27   Carrying articles
   
73.28   Parking of bicycles and motorized scooters
   
73.29   Riding or driving on sidewalks
   
73.30   Lamps, equipment on bicycles
Golf Carts
   
73.45   Definitions
   
73.46   Operation requirements; exemptions
   
73.47   Permit required
   
73.48   Insurance
   
73.49   Prohibitions
 
   
73.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 73.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BICYCLE. A vehicle with two wheels tandem, handlebars, a saddle seat and
pedals by which it is propelled by the operator.
   FOOT SCOOTER. A vehicle with two wheels that are no more than ten inches in
diameter, has handlebars and is propelled solely by the operator of the
vehicle.
   MOPED. Either a motorized bicycle, whose frame design may include one or
more horizontal crossbars supporting a fuel tank so long as it also has pedals,
or a motorized bicycle with a step-through type frame which may or may not have
pedals rate no more than two brake horsepower, a cylinder capacity not
exceeding 50 cubic centimeters.
   MOTORCYCLE. Any motor driven vehicle having a seat or saddle for the use of
the operator and designed to travel on not more than three wheels in contact
with the ground, but excluding tractors and vehicles on which the operator and
passengers ride in an enclosed cab. Motorized scooters with a cylinder capacity
exceeding 50 cubic centimeters or that are capable of operating a maximum speed
of more than 30 mph are classified as MOTORCYCLES for purposes of this chapter.
   MOTORIZED SCOOTER. A vehicle with two wheels that are no more than ten
inches in diameter, has handlebars, is propelled by a gas or electric motor and
is designed to be stood or sat upon by the operator.
   OPERATOR. Any person in actual control of a bicycle, foot scooter, moped,
motorized scooter or motorcycle upon a highway.
(1997 Code, § 73.01) (Ord. 11-1-04, passed 12-1-2004)
§ 73.02 PASSENGERS ON MOTORCYCLES, MOPEDS, MOTORIZED SCOOTERS, OR BICYCLES
PROHIBITED; EXCEPTION.
   A person operating a motorcycle, moped, motorized scooter or bicycle shall
ride only upon the permanent and regular seat attached thereto, and the
operator shall not carry any other person, nor shall any other person ride on a
such motorcycle, moped, motorized scooter or bicycle unless the vehicle is
designed to carry more than one person, in which event a passenger may ride
upon the permanent and regular seat if designed for two persons, or upon
another seat firmly attached to the rear or side of the operator.
(1997 Code, § 73.02) (Ord. 11-1-04, passed 12-1-2004) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.03 OPERATORS MUST BE AT LEAST 16 YEARS OF AGE.
   All persons operating motorcycles or mopeds must be at least 16 years of age
to operate such vehicles on the highway.
(1997 Code, § 73.03) (Ord. 11-1-04, passed 12-1-2004) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.04 DRIVING ON SIDEWALK PROHIBITED.
   No person shall drive a motorcycle, motorized scooter or moped upon any
sidewalks of the city.
(1997 Code, § 73.04) (Ord. 11-1-04, passed 12-1-2004) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.05 OPERATOR’S LICENSE REQUIRED.
   (A)   Every person must secure a moped operator’s license issued by the
commonwealth’s Transportation Cabinet before operating a moped upon a highway.
   (B)   Every person must secure a motorcycle operator’s license issued by the
commonwealth’s Transportation Cabinet before operating a motorcycle upon a
highway.
   (C)   The operator of a moped or motorcycle shall have his or her license in
his or her immediate possession at all times when driving a moped or motorcycle
and shall display it upon demand to any officer of the Police Department
serving the city.
   (D)   Persons whose motor vehicle operator’s license (driver’s license) has
been suspended or revoked are prohibited from operating a moped or motorcycle
upon a highway.
(1997 Code, § 73.05) (Ord. 11-1-04, passed 12-1-2004) Penalty, see §
73.99
Statutory reference:
   Operator’s license required by Kentucky law, see KRS 186.410 and 186.510
§ 73.06 INSURANCE REQUIRED FOR MOTORCYCLES.
   (A)   All owners of motorcycles that are operated in the city must purchase
the required insurance coverage pursuant to KRS 304.39-090 through 304.39-110.
   (B)   The operator of a motorcycle shall have proof of insurance in his or
her immediate possession at all times when driving a motorcycle and shall
display it upon demand to any officer of the Covington Police Department.
(1997 Code, § 73.06) (Ord. 11-1-04, passed 12-1-2004) Penalty, see §
73.99
Statutory reference:
   Insurance required by Kentucky law, see KRS 304-39-090 through 304.39-110
§ 73.07 REGISTRATION OF MOTORCYCLE REQUIRED.
   Before the owner of a motorcycle may operate it or permit its operation upon
a highway, the owner must register the motorcycle in accordance with
regulations issued by the commonwealth’s Transportation Cabinet.
(1997 Code, § 73.07) (Ord. 11-1-04, passed 12-1-2004) Penalty, see §
73.99
Statutory reference:
   Registration of motor vehicles required, see KRS 186.020
§ 73.08 MOTORCYCLES, MOTORIZED SCOOTER AND MOPED OPERATORS TO OBEY TRAFFIC
LAWS.
   Every person operating a motorcycle, motorized scooter or moped upon a
highway shall be granted all of the rights and shall be subject to all of the
duties imposed by the traffic laws of the state or by the traffic ordinances of
this city.
(1997 Code, § 73.08) (Ord. 11-1-04, passed 12-1-2004)
BICYCLES, MOTORIZED SCOOTERS AND FOOT SCOOTERS
§ 73.20 EFFECT OF REGULATIONS.
   (A)   It is a misdemeanor for any person to do any act forbidden or fail to
perform any act required in this subchapter.
   (B)   The parent of any child and the guardian of any ward shall not
authorize or knowingly permit any such child or ward to violate any of the
provisions of this subchapter.
   (C)   These regulations applicable to bicycles, motorized scooters and foot
scooters shall apply whenever a bicycle, motorized scooter or foot scooter is
operated upon any highway or upon any path set aside for the exclusive use of
bicycles and/or scooters, subject to those exceptions stated herein.
(1997 Code, § 73.09) (Ord. 11-1-04, passed 12-1-2004) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.21 BICYCLE DEALERS.
   Every person engaged in the business of buying or selling new or second-hand
bicycles shall make a report to the Chief of Police of every bicycle purchased
or sold by such dealer, giving the name and address of the person from whom
purchased or to whom sold a description of such bicycle by name or make, the
frame number thereof, and the number of license plate, if any, found thereon.
(1997 Code, § 73.10) (Ord. 11-1-04, passed 12-1-2004) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.22 BICYCLE RIDERS TO OBEY TRAFFIC LAWS.
   Every person riding a bicycle or motorized scooter upon a roadway shall be
granted all of the rights and shall be subject to all of the duties applicable
to the driver of a motor vehicle by the laws of this state declaring rules of
the road applicable to vehicles or by the traffic ordinances of the city
applicable to the driver of a motor vehicle, except as to special regulations
in this section and except as to those provisions of laws and ordinances which,
by their nature, can have no application.
(1997 Code, § 73.11) (Ord. 11-1-04, passed 12-1-2004) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.23 OBEDIENCE TO TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES.
   (A)   Any person operating a bicycle or motorized scooter shall obey the
instructions of official traffic-control signals, signs and other control
devices applicable to vehicles, unless otherwise directed by a police officer.
   (B)   Whenever authorized signs are erected indicating that no right or left
or U-turn is permitted, no person operating a bicycle or motorized scooter
shall disobey the direction of any such signs, except where such person
dismounts from the bicycle or motorized scooter to make any such turn, in which
event, such person shall then obey the regulations applicable to pedestrians.
(1997 Code, § 73.12) (Ord. 11-1-04, passed 12-1-2004) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.24 RIDING ON ROADWAYS AND BICYCLE PATHS.
   (A)   Every person operating a bicycle or a motorized scooter (other than
those defined as motorcycles) upon a roadway shall ride as near to the right
side of the roadway as practicable, exercising due care when passing a standing
vehicle or one proceeding in the same direction.
   (B)   Persons riding bicycles or motorized scooters upon a roadway shall not
ride more than two abreast, except on paths or parts of roadways set aside for
the exclusive use of bicycles.
   (C)   Wherever a usable path for bicycles or scooters has been provided
adjacent to a roadway, bicycle riders or scooter operators shall use such path
and shall not use the roadway.
(1997 Code, § 73.13) (Ord. 11-1-04, passed 12-1-2004) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.25 SPEED OF BICYCLES OR MOTORIZED SCOOTERS.
   No person shall operate a bicycle or motorized scooter at a speed greater
than is reasonable and prudent under the conditions then existing.
(1997 Code, § 73.14) (Ord. 11-1-04, passed 12-1-2004) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.26 EMERGING FROM ALLEY OR DRIVEWAY.
   The operator of a bicycle or motorized scooter emerging from an alley,
driveway or building shall, upon approaching a sidewalk or the sidewalk area
extending across any alleyway, yield the right-of-way to all pedestrians
approaching on said sidewalk or sidewalk area and, upon entering the roadway,
shall yield the right-of-way to all vehicles approaching on said roadway.
(1997 Code, § 73.15) (Ord. 11-1-04, passed 12-1-2004) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.27 CARRYING ARTICLES.
   No person operating a bicycle or motorized scooter shall carry any package,
bundle or article which prevents the rider from keeping at least one hand upon
the handle bars.
(1997 Code, § 73.16) (Ord. 11-1-04, passed 12-1-2004) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.28 PARKING OF BICYCLES AND MOTORIZED SCOOTERS.
   No person shall park a bicycle or motorized scooter upon a street other than
upon the roadway against the curb or upon the sidewalk in a rack to support the
bicycle or against a building or at the curb, in such a manner as to afford the
least obstruction to pedestrian traffic.
(1997 Code, § 73.17) (Ord. 11-1-04, passed 12-1-2004) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.29 RIDING OR DRIVING ON SIDEWALKS.
   (A)   Persons may operate a foot scooter on city sidewalks.
   (B)   No person shall ride a bicycle upon a public sidewalk within any area
zoned for commercial use.
   (C)   No person shall operate a motorized scooter on city sidewalks.
However, this prohibition shall not apply to motorized wheelchairs, electric
personal assistance mobility devices or any city police, fire or public works
vehicle driven by an employee in the course of his or her duties.
   (D)   The Chief of Police is authorized to erect signs on any sidewalk or
roadway prohibiting the riding of bicycles, foot scooters or motorized scooters
thereon and when such signs are in place no person shall disobey them.
   (E)   Whenever any person is riding a bicycle or foot scooter upon a
sidewalk, such person shall yield the right-of-way to any pedestrian and shall
give audible signal before overtaking and passing such pedestrian.
(1997 Code, § 73.18) (Ord. 11-1-04, passed 12-1-2004) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.30 LAMPS; EQUIPMENT ON BICYCLES.
   (A)   (1)   Every bicycle, foot scooter or motorized scooter, when in use at
nighttime, shall be equipped with a lamp in the front which shall emit a white
light visible from a distance of at least 500 feet to the front and with a red
reflector on the rear of a type which shall be visible from all distances from
50 feet to 300 feet to the rear when directly in front of lawful upper beams of
headlamps on a motor vehicle.
      (2)   A lamp emitting a red light visible from a distance of 500 feet to
the rear may be used in addition to the red reflector.
   (B)   No person shall operate a bicycle or motorized scooter unless it is
equipped with a bell or other device capable of giving a signal audible for a
distance of at least 100 feet; except that, a bicycle or motorized scooter
shall not be equipped with, nor shall any person use upon a bicycle or
motorized scooter, any siren or whistle.
   (C)   Every bicycle and motorized scooter shall be equipped with a brake
which will enable the operator to make the braked wheel skid on dry, level,
clean pavement.
(1997 Code, § 73.19) (Ord. 11-1-04, passed 12-1-2004) Penalty, see §
73.99
GOLF CARTS
§ 73.45 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   GOLF CART. Any self-propelled vehicle that:
      (1)   Is designed for the transportation of players or maintaining
equipment on a golf course, while engaged in the playing of golf, supervising
the play of golf or maintaining the condition of the grounds on a golf course;
      (2)   Has a minimum of four wheels;
      (3)   Is designed to operate at a speed of not more than 35 mph;
      (4)   Is designed to carry not more than six persons, including the
driver;
      (5)   Has a maximum gross vehicle weight of 2,500 pounds;
      (6)   Has a maximum rated payload capacity of 1,200 pounds; and
      (7)   Is equipped with the following:
         (a)   Headlamps;
         (b)   Tail lamps;
         (c)   Stop lamps;
         (d)   Front and rear turn signals;
         (e)   One red reflex reflector on each side as far to the rear as
practicable and one red reflex reflector on the rear;
         (f)   An exterior mirror mounted on the driver’s side of the vehicle
and either an exterior mirror mounted on the passenger’s side of the vehicle or
an interior-mirror;
         (g)   A parking brake;
         (h)   For each designated seating position, a seatbelt assembly that
conforms to the federal motor vehicle safety standard provided in 49 C.F.R. §
571.209; and
         (i)   A horn that meets the requirements of KRS 189.080.
   LOCAL GOVERNMENT. A city, county, charter county government, urban county
government, consolidated local government, unified local government or special
district.
(Ord. 7-1-19, passed 8-7-2019)
§ 73.46 OPERATION REQUIREMENTS; EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   The City Council does hereby authorize the operation of a golf cart on
any public roadway under its jurisdiction, subject to the regulations set forth
in this subchapter and KRS 189.260 on all city streets subject to the
provisions of KRS 189.260.
   (B)   A person may operate a golf cart on a public roadway pursuant to
division (A) above if:
      (1)   The posted speed limit of the designated public roadway is 35 mph
or less;
      (2)   The operator of the golf cart does not cross a roadway at an
intersection where the roadway being crossed has a posted speed limit of more
than 35 mph;
      (3)   The operator has a valid operators license in his or her
possession;
      (4)   The golf cart is being operated between sunrise and sunset; and
      (5)   The golf cart displays a slow-moving vehicle emblem in compliance
with KRS 189.820.
   (C)   Any person operating a golf cart on a public roadway under the
provisions of this section shall be subject to the traffic regulations of KRS
Chapter 189.
   (D)   A golf cart operating on a public roadway designated by a local
government under division (A) above is not considered to be motor a vehicle and
is exempt from:
      (1)   Title requirements of KRS 186.020;
      (2)   Vehicle registration requirements of KRS 186.050; and
      (3)   Emissions compliance certificates pursuant to KRS 224.20-720.
(Ord. 7-1-19, passed 8-7-2019) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.47 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   Golf carts operated on the streets of the city shall:
   (A)   Be issued a permit for the golf cart by the city;
   (B)   Display a sticker or permit that identifies that the golf cart is
allowed to be operated on specific roadways within the local government; and
   (C)   Be inspected by a certified inspector designated by the County Sheriff
and certified through the Department of Vehicle Regulation to ensure that the
golf cart complies with the requirements of this section. The inspection fee
under this division (C) shall not exceed $5 with an additional fee not to
exceed $10 per trip charged if it becomes necessary for the certified inspector
to travel to the site of the golf cart rather than having the golf cart brought
to the Sheriff’s inspection area.
(Ord. 7-1-19, passed 8-7-2019) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.48 INSURANCE.
   A golf cart operating on a public roadway under §
73.46(A) of this chapter shall be insured in compliance with KRS 304.39-090
through 304.39-110 by the owner or operator, and the proof of insurance shall
be inside the golf cart at all times of operation on a public roadway.
(Ord. 7-1-19, passed 8-7-2019) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.49 PROHIBITIONS.
   (A)   The Transportation Cabinet may prohibit the operation of a golf cart
on a public roadway designated under §
73.46(A) of this chapter that crosses a state-maintained highway under its
jurisdiction if it determines that such prohibition is necessary in the
interest of public safety.
   (B)   The provisions of this section shall not apply to a golf cart that is
not used on a public roadway, except to cross a roadway while following a golf
cart path on a golf course.
(Ord. 7-1-19, passed 8-7-2019) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Whoever violates §
73.01 of this chapter shall be deemed guilty of a violation and shall be fined
not less than $20, nor more than $250.
   (C)   Whoever violates §§
73.02 through
73.08 and
73.20 through
73.30 of this chapter shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be
fined not less than $5, nor more than $250, or imprisoned not more than 60 days
in the county jail, or both so fined and imprisoned.
   (D)   Any person violating the provisions of §§
73.45 through
73.49 of this chapter, except §
73.47(B) of this chapter, shall, upon conviction of a first offense, be fined
not less than $100, nor more than $250. Any person convicted of a subsequent
violation of §§
73.45 through
73.49 of this chapter within two years of a prior conviction under §§
73.45 through
73.49 of this chapter other than a violation of §
73.47(B) of this chapter, or a first violation of §
73.47(B) of this chapter shall, upon conviction, be fined not less than $250,
nor more than $500. Any person convicted of a subsequent violation of §
73.47(B) of this chapter within two years of a prior conviction under §§
73.45 through
73.49 of this chapter shall be fined not less than $300, nor more than $500,
and/or imprisoned not more than 30 days.
(1997 Code, § 73.99) (Ord. 11-1-04, passed 12-1-2004; Ord. 7-1-19, passed 8-7-
2019)
CHAPTER 74: PARADES
Section
   
74.01   Definitions
   
74.02   Permit required
   
74.03   Application for permit
   
74.04   Standards for issuance of permit
   
74.05   Notice of rejection of permit
   
74.06   Appeal procedure when permit denied
   
74.07   Alternative permit
   
74.08   Notice to city and other officials when permit issued
   
74.09   Contents of permit
   
74.10   Duties of permittee
   
74.11   Public conduct during parades
   
74.12   Revocation of permit
§ 74.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PARADE. Any parade, march, ceremony, show, exhibition, pageant or procession
of any kind, or any similar display in or on any street, sidewalk, park or
other public place in the city.
   PARADE PERMIT. A permit required by this subchapter.
(1997 Code, § 71.40)
§ 74.02 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   No person or persons shall engage in, participate in, aid, form or
start any parade unless a parade permit has been obtained from the Chief of
Police or other authorized city official.
   (B)   This chapter shall not apply to:
      (1)   Funeral processions; or
      (2)   A governmental agency acting within the scope of its functions.
(1997 Code, § 71.41)
§ 74.03 APPLICATION FOR PERMIT.
   A person seeking issuance of a parade permit shall file an application with
the Chief of Police or other authorized city official on forms provided by the
official.
   (A)   Filing period. The application for a parade permit shall be filed not
less than five days or not more than 60 days before the date on which it is
proposed to conduct the parade.
   (B)   Application. The application for a parade permit shall set forth the
following information:
      (1)   The name, address and telephone number of the person seeking to
conduct the parade;
      (2)   If the parade is proposed to be conducted for, on behalf of, or by
an organization, the name, address and telephone number of the headquarters of
the organization and of the authorized and responsible heads of the
organization;
      (3)   The name, address and telephone number of the person who will be
the parade chairperson and who will be responsible for its conduct;
      (4)   The date when the parade is to be conducted;
      (5)   The route to be traveled, the starting point and the termination
point;
      (6)   The approximate number of persons, animals and vehicles which will
constitute the parade, the type of animals, if any, and the description of the
vehicles;
      (7)   The hours when the parade will start and terminate;
      (8)   A statement as to whether the parade will occupy all or only a
portion of the width of the streets, sidewalk, park or other public place
proposed to be traversed;
      (9)   The location by street of any assembly area for the parade;
      (10)   The time at which units of the parade will begin to assemble at
any assembly area or areas;
      (11)   The interval of space to be maintained between units of the
parade;
      (12)   If the parade is designed to be held by and on behalf of or for
any person other than the applicant, the applicant for the permit shall file a
communication in writing from the person authorizing the applicant to apply for
the permit on his or her behalf; and
      (13)   Any additional information reasonably necessary to a fair
determination as to whether a permit should issue.
   (C)   Fee. There shall be paid at the time of filing an application for a
parade permit a fee in an amount as established by the City Council.
(1997 Code, § 71.42)
§ 74.04 STANDARDS FOR ISSUANCE OF PERMIT.
   The Chief of Police or other authorized city official shall issue a permit
when, from a consideration of the application and from other information
obtained, he or she finds that:
   (A)   The conduct of the parade will not substantially interrupt the safe
and orderly movement of other traffic contiguous to its route;
   (B)   The conduct of the parade will not require the diversion of so great a
number of police officers of the city to properly police the line of movement
and the areas contiguous thereto as to prevent normal police protection to the
city;
   (C)   The conduct of the parade will not require the diversion of so great a
number of ambulances as to prevent normal ambulance service to portions of the
city other than that to be occupied by the proposed line of march and areas
contiguous thereto;
   (D)   The concentration of persons, animals and vehicles at assembly points
of the parade will not unduly interfere with proper fire and police protection
of or ambulance service to areas contiguous to the assembly areas;
   (E)   The conduct of the parade will not interfere with the movement of
firefighting equipment en route to a fire; and
   (F)   The parade is scheduled to move from its point of origin to its point
of termination expeditiously and without unreasonable delays en route.
(1997 Code, § 71.43)
§ 74.05 NOTICE OF REJECTION OF PERMIT.
   The Chief of Police or other authorized city official shall act on the
application for a parade permit within three days, Saturdays, Sundays and
holidays excepted, after filing thereof. If he or she disapproves the
application, he or she shall mail to the applicant within the three days,
Saturdays, Sundays and holidays excepted, after the date on which the
application was filed, a notice of his or her action stating the reasons for
his or her denial of the permit.
(1997 Code, § 71.44)
§ 74.06 APPEAL PROCEDURE WHEN PERMIT DENIED.
   Any person aggrieved shall have the right to appeal the denial of a parade
permit to the City Council. The appeal shall be taken within 30 days after
notice of denial. The City Council shall act on the appeal within 30 days after
its receipt.
(1997 Code, § 71.45)
§ 74.07 ALTERNATIVE PERMIT.
   The Chief of Police or other authorized city official, in denying an
application for a parade permit, shall be empowered to authorize the conduct of
the parade on a date, at a time or over a route different than that named by
the applicant. An applicant desiring to accept an alternate permit shall file a
written notice of his or her acceptance. An alternate parade permit shall
conform to the requirements of and shall have the effect of a parade permit
under this chapter.
(1997 Code, § 71.46)
§ 74.08 NOTICE TO CITY AND OTHER OFFICIALS WHEN PERMIT ISSUED.
   Immediately on the issuance of a parade permit, a copy thereof shall be sent
to the following persons:
   (A)   The Mayor;
   (B)   The City Attorney;
   (C)   The Fire Chief; and
   (D)   The general manager or responsible head of each public utility, the
regular routes of whose vehicles will be affected by the route of the proposed
parade.
(1997 Code, § 71.47)
§ 74.09 CONTENTS OF PERMIT.
   Each parade permit shall state the following information:
   (A)   Starting time;
   (B)   Minimum speed;
   (C)   Maximum speed;
   (D)   Maximum interval of space to be maintained between the units of the
parade;
   (E)   The portions of the street, sidewalk, park or other public place to be
traversed that may be occupied by the parade;
   (F)   The maximum length of the parade in miles or fractions thereof; and
   (G)   Other information as is reasonably necessary to the enforcement of
this chapter.
(1997 Code, § 71.48)
§ 74.10 DUTIES OF PERMITTEE.
   A permittee hereunder shall comply with all permit directions and conditions
and with all applicable laws and ordinances. The parade chairperson or other
person heading or leading the activity shall carry the parade permit on his or
her person during the conduct of the parade.
(1997 Code, § 71.49)
§ 74.11 PUBLIC CONDUCT DURING PARADES.
   (A)   Interference. No person shall unreasonably hamper, obstruct, impede or
interfere with any parade or parade assembly or with any person, vehicle or
animal participating or used in a parade.
   (B)   Driving through parades. No driver of a vehicle, except a police car
or other emergency vehicle, shall drive between the vehicles or persons
comprising a parade when the vehicles or persons are in motion and are
conspicuously designated as a parade.
(1997 Code, § 71.50) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 74.12 REVOCATION OF PERMIT.
   The city shall have the authority to revoke a parade permit issued hereunder
on application of the standards for issuance as herein set forth.
(1997 Code, § 71.51)
CHAPTER 75: TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
Schedule
      
I.   One-way streets
      
II.   Stop intersections
SCHEDULE I. ONE-WAY STREETS.
   (A)    Vehicle traffic moving over the following streets shall travel only
in the direction indicated:
 
Street        Location                                        Direction
Shelby Street Between Pleasant Street and Steve Tanner Street West
Short Street  Between Shelby Street and Pike Street
 
   (B)   Whoever violates this schedule shall be subject to a penalty of not
less than $20, nor more than $100, for each offense.
(1997 Code, Ch. 74, Schd. I) (Ord. 5-4-78, passed - -1978; Ord. 10-2-81, passed
- -1981)
SCHEDULE II. STOP INTERSECTIONS.
   (A)   Traffic entering the following intersections shall stop before
entering:
 
Intersection                  Corner    To Stop                       Ord. No.
Steve Tanner Street and Boone Northwest Traffic proceeding southbound 8-1-84
Street                                  from Route 8
 
   (B)   Any person disregarding the stop sign referred to herein shall be
subject to penalty as set forth in KRS 189.990(1) (in other words, a fine of
not less than $20, nor more than $100).
(1997 Code, Ch. 74, Schd. II)
CHAPTER 76: PARKING SCHEDULES
Schedule
      
I.   Prohibited/restricted parking
      
II.   Parking zones for persons with disabilities
SCHEDULE I. PROHIBITED/RESTRICTED PARKING.
   The following streets are designated as fire lanes on the sides indicated,
and parking shall be prohibited thereon:
 
Street  Side  Special Provisions                                                              Ord. Date
        (s)                                                                                   No.  Passed
              Fire lane; any vehicle parked in the fire lanes established in this parking
Hayward       schedule shall be towed at the owner’s expense; the city’s Public Works     7-1- - -
Street  South Department, or its representative, is hereby authorized to establish and place  86   1986
              “No Parking” signs and “Fire Lane” signs and other appropriate signs in
              accordance herewith
Pike          Only allowed if all tires are on pavement, if vehicle does not obstruct
Street  North sidewalk or street traffic and the vehicle is not on any curb or concrete apron 7-2- 8-17-
(300          with is more than three inches above the highway                                19   2019
Block)
 
(1997 Code, Ch. 75, Schd. I) (Ord. 6-1-18, passed 6-20-2018; Ord. 1-1-20,
passed 2-5-2020)
SCHEDULE II. PARKING ZONES FOR PERSONS WITH DISABILITIES.
   There are hereby established parking zones for persons with disabilities in
the locations indicated. No owner or operator of a motor vehicle shall park a
vehicle in the zones described in this parking schedule unless such vehicle has
a valid sign for persons with disabilities displayed, which has been issued by
the commonwealth’s Transportation Cabinet or similar agency.
 
Street/Address    Location                                 Ord. No. Date Passed
                  At such place or places at that address
                  as will, in the discretion of the
8 Pike Street     Chairperson of the Bromley Road          11-1-94  12-5-1994
                  Committee, be most advantageous for the
                  residents and operators of motor
                  vehicles in that area
                  At such place or places at that address
                  as will, in the discretion of the
236 Shelby Street Chairperson of the Bromley Road          10-1-94  11-5-1994
                  Committee, be most advantageous for the
                  residents and operators of motor
                  vehicles in that area
                  Beginning at a point on the north side
                  of Boone Street, said point being 25
                  feet east of the northeast corner of the
Boone Street      intersection of Boone Street and Steve   10-1-95  11-7-1995
                  Tanner Street and from that point
                  extending 25 feet eastwardly on the
                  north side of Boone Street
 
(1997 Code, Ch. 75, Schd. II)
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   ANIMAL CONTROL
      
91.   STREETS AND SIDEWALKS; TREES
      
92.   NUISANCES; HEALTH AND SANITATION
      
93.   FIREWORKS; FIRE PREVENTION
      
94.   LITTERING
      
95.   PARKS AND RECREATION
      
96.   “911” EMERGENCY TELEPHONE SERVICES
      
97.   NOISE CONTROL
      
98.   PRIVATE SECURITY
CHAPTER 90: ANIMAL CONTROL
Section
General Provisions
   
90.01   Definitions
   
90.02   Removal of animal excrement
   
90.03   Habitual violators
Animal Services
   
90.15   Powers of Animal Services
   
90.16   Adoption and mandatory spay/neuter
   
90.17   Dog/cat licensing
   
90.18   Rabies vaccination
   
90.19   Humane treatment of animals
   
90.20   Animals to be under control
   
90.21   Wild and exotic animals
   
90.22   Cat population management
   
90.23   Humane societies; standards and licensing
Commercial Animal Establishments
   
90.35   Definition
   
90.36   Licensing provisions
   
90.37   Minimum standards
   
90.38   Inspections
Carriage Horse Businesses
   
90.50   Definitions
   
90.51   Licensing provisions
   
90.52   Standards
 
   
90.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 90.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABANDON.
      (1)   Any animal left more than 48 hours without a person checking on the
condition of the animal and providing food and potable water or not providing a
timed feeder/waterer; and
      (2)   Any animal left on private property without the owner’s consent or
deserted or dumped on public property or roadways.
   ADEQUATE FOOD. Wholesome food suitable for the species provided at suitable
intervals in a sanitary manner in quantities sufficient to maintain good health
in an animal, considering its age and condition.
   ADEQUATE SHELTER, DOMESTIC ANIMALS.
      (1)   Adequate shelter shall be provided to any animal(s), with the
exception of livestock, that remain outside more than one continuous hour per
day. The SHELTER must be suitable for the species, age and condition of the
animal. The SHELTER shall:
         (a)   Be structurally sound, with a solid, level, raised floor,
enclosed sides or walls, and must be properly ventilated. The shelter shall be
sanitary and weather- and water-proof. Suitable drainage must be provided so
that water is not standing in or around the structure;
         (b)   Be small enough to allow the animal’s body heat to warm the
interior of the structure, but be large enough to allow the animal to stand up,
turn around and lie down without touching the walls;
         (c)   Be made from suitable, appropriate, materials to prevent harm or
injury to the animal(s). Unsuitable materials include, but are not limited to,
lean-tos, metal drums, plastic drums, cardboard or other disposable boxes,
vehicles or the area beneath exposed porches or exposed decks;
         (d)   Provide access to shade from direct sunlight and regress from
exposure to inclement weather conditions, hot or cold, but which does not
exacerbate existing weather conditions;
         (e)   Placed in an area offering the best available protection from
inclement weather, hot or cold; and
         (f)   Have floors that are constructed in a manner that protects the
animals’ feet and legs from injury and that, if of mesh or slatted
construction, do not allow the animal’s feet to pass through the openings of
the floor.
      (2)   Cardboard, fiberboard or any other structure that fails to protect
an animal from adverse atmospheric conditions shall not be considered proper
SHELTER.
   ADEQUATE SHELTER, LIVESTOCK. Adequate shelter shall be provided to all
livestock. The shelter shall be either natural or constructed, and must provide
relief from the elements. Accepted NATURAL SHELTERS are natural windbreak from
tree lines or other low areas, and natural shade under trees. Accepted
CONSTRUCTED SHELTERS are barns, three-sided shelters, lean-tos and widescreens.
CONSTRUCTED SHELTERS should be free of hazards likely to cause injury.
   ADEQUATE VENTILATION. Proper air flow and circulation by mechanical, natural
or other means that provide a constant exchange of air, with fresh, clean,
oxygenated air replacing the contaminated, dirty, un-oxygenated air within a
confined space.
   ADEQUATE WARMTH. Sufficient, comfortable degree of temperature of the
confined space or containment area that will not lower nor raise the average
body temperature as appropriate for the species.
   ADEQUATE WATER. A supply of clean, fresh, potable water provided at suitable
intervals or on a continual basis in a sanitary manner suitable for the
species, condition and age of the animal. The supply shall be in sufficient
amounts to maintain good health in the animal and in a suitable container
secured to prevent turnover.
   ANIMAL. Any live vertebrate creature.
   ANIMAL SERVICES. The department of the county which is designated by the
Fiscal Court to enforce the provisions of this chapter and to operate the
animal shelter.
   ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER. Any person designated by the Director of Animal
Services of the county, who is qualified to perform the duties under the laws
and ordinances of the commonwealth and the county and all peace officers. An
ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER shall be a law enforcement officer for the purposes of
animal control only.
   ANIMAL SHELTER. Any premises operated or approved for operation by the
Fiscal Court for the purpose of impounding and caring for animals held under
the authority of this chapter.
   AUCTION. Any place or facility where animals are regularly bought, sold or
traded, except for those facilities otherwise defined in this chapter.
   BREEDER. Any person who intentionally or accidentally causes the breeding of
more than one litter per female cat or dog in a 12-month period; makes more
than one cat or dog available for breeding purposes in a 12-month period; or
offers for sale, trades, receives any compensation or gives away more than one
litter of dogs or cats in a 12-month period, with the exception of a litter of
dogs or cats taken to the animal shelter.
   COMMERCIAL ANIMAL ESTABLISHMENT. Any pet shop, boarding or breeding kennel,
grooming facility, auction, petting zoo, zoological park, circus, performing
animal exhibit, breeder or any person engaged in the business of breeding,
buying, letting for hire, training for a fee or selling at retail or wholesale
any species of animal for profit.
   COMMUNITY CAT. Any free-roaming cat that may be cared for by one or more
residents of the immediate area who is/are known. A COMMUNITY CAT may or may
not be feral. COMMUNITY CATS are distinguished from other cats by being
sterilized and ear-tipped. COMMUNITY CATS that have been ear-tipped, sterilized
and vaccinated under the trap-neuter-return program are exempt from licensing,
stray and at-large provisions of this chapter.
   DAY. For the purposes of this chapter, a 24-hour period shall constitute a
DAY.
   DIRECTOR OF ANIMAL SERVICES. The person appointed by the Judge/Executive and
approved by the Fiscal Court as the Chief Animal Control Officer.
   DOMESTIC ANIMAL. Animals that are habituated to live in or about the
habitations of human beings, and which are kept, cared for, sheltered, fed or
harbored for use as a pet or as a source of food, raw materials or income.
   DWELLING. The house or other structure in which a human being lives.
   EXOTIC ANIMAL. Any animal not indigenous to the United States.
   EXTREME WEATHER CONDITIONS. When weather conditions are such that a heat
advisory, excessive heat advisory, severe thunderstorm warning, flash flood
warning, blizzard warning, winter storm warning or wind chill advisory is
issued by the National Weather Service.
   GROOMING FACILITY. A commercial establishment where animals are bathed,
clipped or otherwise groomed.
   HUMANE SOCIETY. Any person or organization operating from a fixed site and
taking in or accepting stray or unwanted animals.
   IMPOUNDED. Having been received into the custody of animal services or any
authorized representative thereof.
   LIVESTOCK. Cattle, sheep, swine, goats, horses or any other animals of the
bovine, ovine, porcine, caprine or equine species.
   OWNED CAT. Any cat that is a companion to a person, is regularly fed and
sheltered in that same person’s habitation. All OWNED CATS are required to be
in compliance with licensing, stray and at large provisions of this chapter,
while community cats that have been ear-tipped, sterilized and vaccinated under
the trap-neuter-return program are exempt.
   OWNER. Any person owning, keeping, harboring or sheltering one or more
animals.
   PARAPHERNALIA, ANIMAL FIGHTING. Any bite sticks, weighted chains and/or
collars, spars, animal tread mills, slat mills, carpet mills, fighting pens,
permanent or temporary, injectable or ingestible drugs and supplements used to
enhance fighting, spring poles or weight pull harnesses and equipment.
   PERSON. All natural persons, corporations, partnerships, firms,
associations, governmental bodies, agencies and other entities.
   PET. Domesticated animal kept for pleasure rather than utility.
   PET SHOP. Any person engaged in the business of breeding, buying, selling at
retail or wholesale, including fish, of any species for profit-making purposes,
except farming operations that breed, buy or sell at retail pursuant to and in
conjunction with their agricultural use and shall not be considered PET SHOPS
for purposes of this chapter.
   PUBLIC NUISANCE. Any animal which:
      (1)   Molests passers-by or passing vehicles;
      (2)   Attacks people or other animals;
      (3)   Damages public or private property;
      (4)   Is repeatedly at large;
      (5)   Makes noise in an excessive, continuous or untimely manner for more
than 15 minutes without provocation;
      (6)   Creates unsanitary conditions;
      (7)   Disturbs the peace, comfort or health of persons in any other
manner; or
      (8)   A home, residence, building, shed, yard, property or other
establishment that contains excessive amounts of feces and/or urine or exudes a
foul odor.
   REASONABLE GROOMING. To maintain an animal’s coat to prevent conditions
which inhibits normal walking or the elimination of body waste or which is
medically harmful to the animal.
   RESTRAINT. Enclosed in an area by a form of fencing designed to control the
movement of the animal or secured by a leash, chain or cable tie-out. An animal
shall be deemed to be RESTRAINED if it remains on the premises of its owner or
if it is accompanied by a responsible person and is under that person’s
immediate control.
   RUNNING AT LARGE. Any animal, other than a hunting dog released for the
purpose of hunting, that is off the property of the owner, custodian, possessor
or harborer and is not restrained. Community cats that have been ear-tipped,
sterilized and vaccinated under the trap-neuter-return program shall not be
considered to be RUNNING AT LARGE.
   STRAY. Any animal, other than a hunting dog released for the purpose of
hunting, that is running at large. Community cats that have been ear-tipped,
sterilized and vaccinated under the trap-neuter-return program shall not be
considered STRAY for purposes of this chapter.
   TRAP-NEUTER-RETURN (“TNR”). The method of managing community cats by
humanely trapping, altering, vaccinating, ear-tipping, returning the community
cats to the location where it was trapped where the community cats will be
provided with long-term care by one or more caretakers.
   VETERINARIAN. Any personal licensed by the commonwealth to practice
veterinary medicine.
   VETERINARY HOSPITAL CLINIC. Any establishment maintained and operated by a
licensed veterinarian for surgery, diagnosis and treatment of diseases and
injuries of animals.
   VICIOUS ANIMAL.
      (1)   Any animal:
         (a)   Which constitutes a physical threat to human beings or domestic
animals which, due to a known propensity to endanger life, by an unprovoked
assault or bite which has resulted in serious bodily harm;
         (b)   Which, when unprovoked, approaches in a terrorizing manner, any
person in an attitude of attack upon streets, sidewalks or any public grounds
or places;
         (c)   With a known propensity, tendency or disposition to unprovoked
attacks which cause injury or endanger the safety of human beings or domestic
animals;
         (d)   Which bites to the extent of causing severe injury and assaults
or otherwise attacks human beings or domestic animals; or
         (e)   Owned or harbored primarily or in part for the purpose of
fighting with animals.
      (2)   It shall be prima facie evidence that an animal is VICIOUS if the
animal bites a human being or domestic animal more than once in the same
attack.
      (3)   An animal shall not be deemed VICIOUS solely because:
         (a)   It bites, attacks or menaces:
            1.   Any person assaulting its owner; or
            2.   Any person or animal who has tormented or abused it.
         (b)   It is otherwise acting in defense of any attack from a person or
other animal upon its owner or another person;
         (c)   It is protecting or defending its young or the young of any
other animal; or
         (d)   Its breed or assumed/known component of its breed.
   WILD ANIMAL. Any animal not domesticated or not ordinarily tame and which
is, by nature, an animal that lives apart from human beings.
(Ord. 3-1-20, passed 5-6-2020)
§ 90.02 REMOVAL OF ANIMAL EXCREMENT.
   (A)   Any person or owner of an animal shall remove any excrement deposited
by his or her animal upon public walks, streets, recreation areas or the
private property of another absent the consent of the owner or occupant of the
property.
   (B)   Any excrement not removed in violation of division (A) above is
declared to be a public nuisance.
   (C)   This section shall not apply to guide dogs under the control of a
blind person.
(Ord. 3-1-20, passed 5-6-2020) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.03 HABITUAL VIOLATORS.
   Any person who receives four or more warning citations and/or civil
citations in any 12-month period shall be in violation of being a habitual
violator and subject to penalties.
(Ord. 3-1-20, passed 5-6-2020)
ANIMAL SERVICES
§ 90.15 POWERS OF ANIMAL SERVICES.
   (A)   The Director, Assistant Director and all Animal Control Officers of
Animal Services shall have the powers of a peace officer for the purposes of
enforcing animal control laws or ordinances in the county if they otherwise
qualify as a peace officer under the laws of the commonwealth.
   (B)   All Animal Control Officers of Animal Services shall comply with KRS
61.300.
   (C)   Whenever it is necessary for Animal Services to make an inspection in
order to perform any duty or enforce any provision of this chapter or any other
applicable state statute, they are hereby empowered to enter property at a
reasonable time and inspect the premises. Animal Services shall have the power
only if consent of the owner or occupant of the property is freely given, a
search warrant is obtained or such exigent circumstances exist that a
warrantless, non-consensual search is required.
   (D)   All animals of any age running at large, as defined in this chapter,
and found in the county, may be picked up by Animal Services and impounded in
the animal shelter. If Animal Services can reasonably return the animal they
may do so and may issue a uniform citation to the owner. Community cats that
have been ear-tipped, sterilized and vaccinated under the trap-neuter-return
program may be released back into the community and are not subject to
impoundment under this section.
   (E)   All animals of any age which have bitten a human being may be picked
up by Animal Services and impounded in the animal shelter for any applicable
quarantine period. In the event an animal is impounded for a quarantine period,
the owner shall be responsible for a reasonable fee for board, administration
and medical attention during the impoundment.
   (F)   Any animal that is off the property of its owner and displays behavior
as defined in the definition of “vicious animal” in §
90.01 of this chapter and an Animal Control Officer or law enforcement officer
has reason to believe the animal poses a threat to the safety of the general
public, the animal shall be taken into custody by Animal Services and the owner
shall be issued a uniform citation for harboring a vicious animal. The animal
shall remain in the custody of the county until the accused is given a hearing
before a District Court judge. Should that judge find probable cause for a
charge of harboring a vicious animal, the court shall order temporary
forfeiture of the animal to County Animal Services pending final disposition of
the case.
   (G)   Any dog, required to be licensed but found unlicensed, may be
impounded for a minimum period of five days unless it is earlier claimed by its
owner. If the dog is not claimed by its owner within five days of impoundment,
the dog may then be offered for adoption or may be euthanized at the discretion
of the Director of Animal Services. Any person claiming or reclaiming a dog
pursuant to this section shall pay a reasonable fee for board, administration
and medical attention for the dog during impoundment and obtain proper
licensing, if applicable, from Animal Services. Animal Services shall make
reasonable efforts to locate and inform the owner of any dog that the dog has
been impounded.
   (H)   Any animal involved in an alleged violation of KRS 525.125, 525.130,
525.135, 525.137 or §
90.19 of this chapter may be confiscated by any Animal Control or peace officer
and held in a humane manner. Upon taking custody of an animal pursuant to KRS
525.125, 525.130, 525.135, 525.137 or §
90.19 of this chapter, Animal Services shall give notice of the seized animal
by posting a notice at the location where the animal is taken into custody or
by delivering notice to a person residing at the property. The animal shall
remain in the custody of the county until the accused is given a hearing before
a District Court judge. Should that judge find probable cause for a charge
under KRS 525.125 , 525.130, 525.135, 525.137 or §
90.19 of this chapter, the court shall order temporary forfeiture of the animal
to County Animal Control.
      (1)   Upon a plea or finding of guilt, the animal shall become the
property of the county. The person convicted for violating KRS 525.125,
525.130, 525.135,525.137 or §
90.19 of this chapter shall pay all reasonable expenses related to the
incidents of cruelty, including investigation, disposition, veterinary costs
and all costs of maintaining or disposing of the animal incurred from the date
of confiscation up to and including the date of permanent forfeiture.
      (2)   Upon a dismissal of the charge or a finding of innocence, the
animal shall be immediately returned to the owner. If the owner does not re-
claim the dog within three days of the dismissal or acquittal, the animal may
be offered for adoption or may be euthanized at the discretion of the Director
of Animal Services.
   (I)   When any licensed animal or animal whose owner is known, is impounded
in the Animal Shelter, Animal Services shall notify the owner by certified
mail, return receipt requested, to the last known address, by personal delivery
or by leaving the notice at the person’s usual place of residence with any
individual residing therein who is 18 years of age or older and who is informed
of the contents of the notice, within three business days of impoundment.
   (J)   The registered owner shall reclaim the animal within three days of the
receipt of notice of impoundment. Any licensed animal or animal whose owner is
known which is not reclaimed by its owner within three days of receipt of the
notice of impoundment may then be offered for adoption or may be euthanized at
the discretion of the Director of Animal Services. Any person claiming or
reclaiming an animal pursuant to this section, shall pay all associated fees
for impound, board, administration and medical attention during the impoundment
and any outstanding civil citation fees.
   (K)   An Animal Control Officer or law enforcement officer may choose to
issue a warning citation in lieu of a uniform citation if a violation is minor
in nature. Violations eligible for the issuance of a warning citation include,
but are not limited to, first contact by any officer for; failure to vaccinate
a pet against the rabies virus, failure to license a pet, creating a public
nuisance, animal running at large, the lack of reasonable grooming or
veterinary care were the animal has not suffered harm. The warning citation
shall allow up to 14 days to correct the violation, except violations of public
nuisance or running at large shall be corrected immediately. If a violation is
serious in nature, a uniform citation may be issued.
   (L)   An Animal Control Officer or law enforcement officer may choose to
issue a civil citation in lieu of a uniform citation for violations listed in
division (K) above where multiple violations of this ordinance exists, or where
personal injury occurred or property was damaged or destroyed, or a previous
warning has been issued. The civil citation shall allow up to 14 days to
correct the violation and pay the associated fee. Violations of public nuisance
or running at large shall be corrected immediately. If a violation is serious
in nature, a uniform citation may be issued.
      (1)   The fee for civil citations issued under this section are as
follows.
         (a)   First citation is $30 per violation.
         (b)   Second citation in any 12-month period is $55 per violation.
         (c)   Third citation in any 12-month period is $85 per violation.
      (2)   The fourth or subsequent offenses are deemed to be habitual in
nature and not eligible for civil citation and the Animal Control Officer or
law enforcement officer shall issue a uniform citation.
   (M)   Animal Control Officers are authorized to place, upon request, live-
capture animal traps on private or public property to trap and remove stray, at
large, unwanted or nuisance domestic animals. It shall be unlawful for any
person other than an Animal Control Officer or his or her designee to remove an
animal from the trap or to damage, destroy, move or otherwise tamper with the
trap. Any person requesting a live-capture trap must own the subject property
and shall be responsible for any lost, stolen, damaged or otherwise altered
traps.
   (N)   All impound, boarding, administration and medical fees will be set
annually by the Director of Animal Services, with approval of the Fiscal Court.
(Ord. 3-1-20, passed 5-6-2020) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.16 ADOPTION AND MANDATORY SPAY/NEUTER.
   (A)   Prior to the adoption of any animal from Animal Services an
application must be completed by the person wishing to adopt the animal. The
application is designed to determine the prospective owner’s ability to care
for the animal. Any person wishing to adopt an animal who has been issued a
uniform citation for inhumane treatment of animals will not be able to adopt.
   (B)   County Animal Services is not obligated to sell or transfer possession
of any animal in its custody.
   (C)   All dogs and cats adopted from the Animal Shelter must be surgically
altered to prevent breeding.
   (D)   The fee for adoption of animals shall be set annually by the Director
of Animal Services, with the approval of Fiscal Court.
(Ord. 3-1-20, passed 5-6-2020)
§ 90.17 DOG/CAT LICENSING.
   (A)   The owners of all dogs and cats, or those who harbor or maintain dogs
and cats in the unincorporated or incorporated areas of the county, shall have
each and every dog and cat licensed or, as an option, microchipped and
registered the county’s Animal Services in accordance with the provisions of
this chapter and applicable Kentucky Revised Statutes.
   (B)   The annual license fee for each dog and cat shall be set annually by
the Director of Animal Services, with the approval of the Fiscal Court. The
current license fee period shall begin on 7-1-2019 and will terminate on 1-31-
2021. Licenses must be renewed each year thereafter during the month of
February. Failure to license, or to renew a license, will result in a penalty.
At the time of licensing and registration, the owner shall provide his or her
name, address and telephone number, as well as the name, breed, color and sex
of each dog/cat to be licensed. Upon payment of the license fee, the owner
shall be issued a certificate of registration and a serial numbered license tag
for each dog/cat. The license tag shall be fastened to the dog’s or cat’s
collar and worn by the dog or cat at all times.
   (C)   (1)   All dogs/cats that are microchipped and registered with the
county on or before 6-30-2004 shall be exempt from the annual licensing fee for
the lifetime of the animal. The microchip shall be county-approved, and coded
with a unique identifying number implanted in the neck of the dog or cat. The
owner shall provide his or her name, address and phone number, as well as the
name, breed, color and sex of each dog/cat microchipped. The information, along
with the unique identifying number, will be entered into the computer data base
for future reference.
      (2)   Upon payment of the microchip fee, the owner shall be issued a
certificate of registration for each dog/cat implanted.
      (3)   Should the ownership of the dog/cat change for any reason
whatsoever, the change of ownership shall be made in the data base for a
nominal fee to be set by the Fiscal Court.
   (D)   Failure to register a dog or cat and to obtain the license set forth
herein within 30 days of acquiring or possessing the animal, or failure to
renew during the month of February each year thereafter, or failure to display
the license on the dog, or failure to microchip a dog in place of buying a
license shall result in a fine as provided in §
90.99 of this chapter.
   (E)   Community cats that have been ear-tipped, sterilized and vaccinated
under the trap-neuter-return program are exempt from the licensing requirements
of this section.
(Ord. 3-1-20, passed 5-6-2020) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.18 RABIES VACCINATION.
   (A)   All dogs, cats and ferrets, four months of age and older, shall be
vaccinated for rabies and revaccinated for rabies at the expiration of the
immunization period as certified by a veterinarian.
   (B)   Any dog or cat reclaimed or adopted from the Animal Shelter must have
a valid rabies vaccination or purchase a rabies voucher prior to release.
   (C)   Any dogs or cats found not to have been vaccinated for rabies, whether
discovered by a veterinarian or by other means, must be vaccinated within 14
days of the date of discovery.
(Ord. 3-1-20, passed 5-6-2020) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.19 HUMANE TREATMENT OF ANIMALS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to abandon any animal.
      (1)   In the event that an animal is found abandoned, such animal may be
taken by an Animal Control Officer or peace officer, and impounded at the
Animal Shelter and there be confined in a humane manner. Such animal, if taken
from private property shall be kept for not less than the prescribed period in
accordance with the procedures set forth in §
90.15 of this chapter, or for any longer period required by law, regulation or
medical necessity. In the event an animal is so abandoned, the owner or person,
if any, who he or she has charged with the animal’s care, shall be subject to a
citation or civil penalties for any violation of this section.
      (2)   Any animal found not under restraint without a license or
vaccination tag, or any animal found in a condition that requires immediate
veterinary care, shall be presumed to be abandoned, and shall be seized.
      (3)   Notice of seizure of an abandoned animal from private property
shall be posted on the premises from which the animal was seized, which notice
shall clearly state the address and telephone number for the Animal Shelter.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to inhumanely treat any animal,
including, but not limited to, the deprivation of necessities, beating,
mutilating, torturing, killing, overloading, overworking or otherwise abusing
any animal. Nothing herein shall prevent Animal Services from humanely
euthanizing any animal.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person to exhibit, display or keep any
animal without providing adequate food, adequate water, adequate shelter or
medical attention.
   (D)   Any dog which is chained, tied or otherwise connected by means other
than a leash being held by a person shall be provided no less than ten feet of
chain, rope, cable or other similar material, and shall be situated in a manner
that prevents injury, strangulation or entanglement. Dogs that are chained,
tied or otherwise connected by means other than a leash being held by a person
shall be properly fitted with and wearing non-choke, buckle-type collar or
harness made of leather, nylon or similar material, and shall not be tethered
by use of a choke collar, or on any collar too small for the size and age of
the animal. The tether must be attached to the dog’s collar or harness and not
directly to the dog’s neck, or of such unreasonable weight as to prevent the
animal from moving about freely. Dogs shall be not tethered in any unsafe area,
and must be at least ten feet from the edge of any public road or sidewalk.
Dogs shall not be tethered during extreme weather conditions, or while the dog
is sick or injured. Dogs under the age of five months may not be tethered
unattended, and multiple dogs should be tethered separately.
   (E)   It shall be unlawful for any person to keep an animal within the
passenger compartment of an automobile without adequate ventilation in the
summer or adequate warmth in the winter. No person shall enclose any animal in
the trunk of an automobile. An Animal Control Officer or police officer shall
rescue any animal confined in such a manner. No person shall use any automobile
as a temporary or permanent shelter for animal(s).
   (F)   It shall be unlawful for any person to stage, cause, instigate,
permit, observe or attend any dog fight, cock fight, bull fight or other combat
between animals or between animals and humans. Animals altered for fighting
purposes and animals with scarring from previous fighting may be considered
evidence of unlawful animal combat.
   (G)   It shall be unlawful for any person(s) to own, harbor or be in
possession of animal fighting paraphernalia.
   (H)   It shall be unlawful for any person to set free any hare, rabbit,
gerbil, domesticated rat, guineas pig, other pet rodent, snake, lizard, turtle,
other pet reptile or other animal for the purpose of violating any provision of
this chapter.
   (I)   No performing animal exhibition, circus or horse show, shall be
permitted, in which the animals are induced or encouraged to perform through
the use of chemical, mechanical, electrical or manual devices in a manner which
will cause or is likely to cause physical injury or suffering. All equipment
used on animals in such shows shall fit properly and be in good working order.
   (J)   Any person, who as the operator of a motor vehicle, strikes a domestic
animal, shall stop at once and render assistance as may be possible and shall
immediately report such injury or death to the animal’s owner, if known, or to
Animal Control Officer or any police officer.
   (K)   No person shall expose any poisonous substance, whether mixed with
food or not, so that the same shall be likely to be eaten by a domestic animal;
provided that, the substance shall not be unlawful for a person to expose on
his or her own property, poisonous substance, or to Animal Control or any
police officer.
   (L)   No person shall give away any live animal as a prize or for inducement
to enter any contest, game or other competition or as an inducement to enter
into any business agreement, whereby the offer was for the purpose of
attracting the trade; except that, it shall not be unlawful to give away small
fish, not to exceed four inches, as a prize.
   (M)   It shall be unlawful for any person to color, stain, dye or otherwise
change the natural color of any live animal or to offer such colored animals
for sale in the county; except that, the mane and tail of an equine may be
changed pursuant to accepted practices in showing the equine.
   (N)   It shall be unlawful to sell baby chicks, ducks or rabbits under the
age of two months in quantities less than six.
   (O)   It shall be unlawful to place an animal in the rear of a truck without
securing the animal so that the animal cannot jump out.
   (P)   It shall be unlawful to possess more than six domestic (cats and/or
dogs) or exotic animals or a combination thereof in one’s residential dwelling
if that said dwelling is within 100 feet of a neighbor.
   (Q)   (1)   It shall be unlawful to allow dogs, cats or other domestic
animals to remain outdoors during extreme weather conditions.
      (2)   Dogs, cats or other domestic animals must be moved indoors or to an
area that provides protection from the extreme weather condition.
   (R)   (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person to use a muzzle that causes
injury to a dog, interferes with its vision, respiration or ability to drink.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful to muzzle any dog unless doing so is
reasonably calculated to prevent injury to people or animals.
(Ord. 3-1-20, passed 5-6-2020) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.20 ANIMALS TO BE UNDER CONTROL.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to permit any animal owned or
harbored by him or her to run at large. When livestock are running at large,
Animal Control or the police shall make reasonable efforts to notify the owner
as soon as possible. If reasonably possible and feasible, the owner of the
livestock shall be notified prior to the actual capture and impoundment of the
livestock.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to own or possess a vicious animal.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful to own or possess an animal that conducts itself
in such a manner as to constitute a public nuisance.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful to allow a female dog to be exposed during estrus
(in season, in heat) so as to attract male dogs. Every female that is in season
shall be confined in a building or secure enclosure in such a manner that such
female dog cannot come in contact with a male dog, except for planned breeding.
Females shall not be restrained by tie out, chain, rope, cable, leash or
otherwise restrained and left unattended while in season.
   (E)   Community cats that have been ear-tipped, sterilized and vaccinated
under the trap-neuter-return program shall not be considered to be running at
large under this section.
   (F)   Pursuant to KRS 258.215, a hound or other hunting dog which has been
released from confinement for hunting purposes shall be deemed to be under
reasonable control of its owner or handler while engaged in or returning from
hunting, and, if a hunting dog becomes temporarily lost from a pack or wanders
from actual control or sight of its owner or handler, the owner or handler
shall not be deemed to be in violation of the provisions of this section as a
result of the dog’s having become temporarily lost or having wandered from
immediate control or sight of the owner or handler.
(Ord. 3-1-20, passed 5-6-2020) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.21 WILD AND EXOTIC ANIMALS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to sell, own, harbor or keep as a pet, a wild or
exotic animal, not indigenous to the United States, unless the animal has been
approved for sale or retention by appropriate state and federal governmental
agencies and any required permits have been obtained.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to sell, own, harbor or keep as a pet, a wild
animal native to the United States, unless the animal has been approved for
sale or retention by appropriate state and federal governmental agencies and
any required permits have been obtained.
(Ord. 3-1-20, passed 5-6-2020) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.22 CAT POPULATION MANAGEMENT.
   (A)   A trap-neuter-return program will be developed by animal services to
address the issues presented by feral and other community cats, recognizing
that there are caretakers of community cats.
   (B)   A trap-neuter-return program will permit Animal Services to engage in
the trapping of community cats for the purpose of sterilization, vaccination,
ear-tipping for easy identification and providing of other necessary medical
care for community cats.
   (C)   (1)   A caretaker providing for a community cat(s) may offer certain
necessities on a regular/ongoing basis, including, but not limited to: proper
nutrition of food and water and medical care.
      (2)   If medical care is unavailable or too expensive, a caregiver should
contact Animal Services for assistance to prevent harm to a community cat.
   (D)   If the requirements of division (C) above are met, the caretaker is
exempt from licensing and other provisions of this chapter that apply to owned
cats.
   (E)   (1)   Anyone providing necessities to community cats shall adhere to
the management standards listed below to reduce reproduction and prevent the
attraction of wildlife, vermin or insects.
      (2)   Failure to adhere to standards shall be deemed a public nuisance.
         (a)   Food must be presented in a container and not thrown on the
ground;
         (b)   Uneaten food must be picked up after one hour;
         (c)   Remove trash and keep the area clean;
         (d)   Encourage cats to stay away from people such as by feeding away
from streets and public sidewalks;
         (e)   If providing shelter, ensure that shelters are insulated, blends
in with the surrounding and free of standing water and moisture; and
         (f)   Provide rabies vaccinations and spay/neuter services to prevent
reproduction or contact Animal Services.
(Ord. 3-1-20, passed 5-6-2020) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.23 HUMANE SOCIETIES; STANDARDS AND LICENSING.
   (A)   All humane societies in the county shall be governed by the same
standards set forth in §§
90.35 through
90.38 of this chapter, and shall be subject to any ordinance pertaining to
commercial animal establishments.
   (B)   Humane societies shall maintain records on each animal accepted or
houses, noting the following:
      (1)   Name and address of previous owner or person turning in the animal;
      (2)   Date received;
      (3)   Condition of the animal and any medical treatment;
      (4)   Date of adoption, redemption or euthanasia; and
      (5)   Name and address of new owner.
(Ord. 3-1-20, passed 5-6-2020)
COMMERCIAL ANIMAL ESTABLISHMENTS
§ 90.35 DEFINITION.
   In addition to the definitions provided in §
90.01 of this chapter, the following definition shall apply to the provisions
of this subchapter, unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
   OWNER or OPERATOR. Any person, group of persons, partnership or any entity
owning or operating a commercial animal establishment. This definition does not
apply to veterinarians as long as animals on the premise are there for
treatment only.
(Ord. 3-1-20, passed 5-6-2020)
§ 90.36 LICENSING PROVISIONS.
   (A)   All commercial animal establishments shall obtain and maintain a valid
commercial animal establishment license in order to operate a commercial animal
establishment within the county.
   (B)   The commercial animal establishment licenses shall be issued by the
county’s Fiscal Court through Animal Services. An application to obtain a
commercial animal establishment license shall be completed by each commercial
animal establishment. A separate application must be completed for each
location in the case of commercial animal establishment chains and/or
franchises. The premises for which a license is being granted shall be
inspected by Animal Services. Animal Services shall issue a commercial animal
license establishment license to the applicant upon payment of the required fee
and passing of the required inspection.
   (C)   The commercial animal establishment license shall be valid for a
period of one year. Licenses issued between 7-1-2019 and 6-30-2020 will be
extended until 1-31-2021. After 1-31-2021, all licenses are due for renewal in
the month of February.
   (D)   The commercial animal establishment license shall be renewed annually.
   (E)   The annual fee for a commercial animal establishment license shall be
set by the Director of Animal Services and approved by the Fiscal Court.
(Ord. 3-1-20, passed 5-6-2020) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.37 MINIMUM STANDARDS.
   (A)   All commercial animal establishments shall provide an adequate
environment for each animal which is compatible with the general health and
welfare of the animal.
   (B)   All commercial animal establishments shall provide adequate space for
each animal. Each cage or enclosure shall be large enough for the animal to
stand, sit, lie and turn around without touching the walls or ceiling of the
cage or enclosure, or another animal.
   (C)   All commercial animal establishments shall provide adequate
sanitation. Each cage or enclosure shall be maintained as follows.
      (1)   Indoor containment.
         (a)   Cages or enclosures containing dogs or cats of any age shall be
cleaned with hot water, disinfectant and detergent daily (including holidays)
or more frequently if conditions require additional cleaning or disinfecting to
keep animals out of contact with feces or urine. Litter boxes shall be cleaned
daily (including holidays) and the litter changed when needed.
         (b)   Cages or enclosures containing birds shall contain a perch and
shall be cleaned with hot water and disinfectant at least twice weekly or more
frequently if conditions require additional cleaning.
         (c)   Cages or enclosures containing small animals beside a dog or cat
shall be cleaned with hot water and disinfectant at least twice weekly or more
frequently if conditions require additional cleaning.
         (d)   Cages or enclosures must be designed and constructed of suitable
materials so that they are structurally sound and kept in good repair. Cages or
enclosures must be constructed and maintained so that they:
            1.   Have no sharp points or edges that could injure the animal(s);
            2.   Are safe for their designed use;
            3.   Contain the animal(s) securely;
            4.   Keep other animals from entering the enclosure;
            5.   Enable the animal(s) to remain dry and clean; and
            6.   Provide animals with easy and convenient access to clean food
and water.
      (2)   Outdoor containment.
         (a)   If dogs are contained outdoors, their cage or enclosure must be
designed and constructed of suitable materials so that they are structurally
sound and kept in good repair.
         (b)   Cages or enclosures must be constructed and maintained so that
they:
            1.   Have no sharp points or edges that could injure the animal(s);
            2.   Are safe for their designed use;
            3.   Contain the animal(s) securely;
            4.   Keep other animals from entering the enclosure;
            5.   Enable the animal(s) to remain dry and clean;
            6.   Provide animals with easy and convenient access to clean food
and water;
            7.   Provide protection and shelter from extreme weather
conditions;
            8.   Provide sufficient shade from direct rays of sun;
            9.   Have floors that are constructed in a manner that protects
animal(s) feet and legs from injury and that, if of mesh or slatted
construction, do not allow the animals feet to pass through any openings in the
floors; and
            10.   All surfaces in contact with animals shall be cleaned and
sanitized daily (including holidays), and sanitized.
      (3)   Minimum standards for housing.
         (a)   All commercial animal establishments shall adhere to the
following minimum space standards for enclosures housing dogs, based upon the
individual dog’s height and weight:
 
Canine Category Size/Length/Weight      Square Footage Required Housing Size
                                                                Equivalency
Miniature       0-19” or up to 10 lbs.4 square feet           2 feet x 2 feet
Small           20-29” or up to 20 lbs8 square feet           2 feet x 4 feet
Small/Medium    30-39” or up to 35 lbs12 square feet          3 feet x 4 feet
Medium          40-49” or up to 50 lbs20 square feet          4 feet x 5 feet
Medium/Large    50-59” or up to 75 lbs30 square feet          5 feet x 6 feet
Large           60”+ up to 76 lbs.    36 square feet          6 feet x 6 feet
 
         (b)   Violations of the minimum standards for housing of dogs pursuant
to division (D)(3)(a) above shall not apply to veterinary establishments where
restricting a dog’s movements is medically necessary.
   (E)   All commercial animal establishments shall provide adequate
nourishment and water for each animal as follows.
      (1)   Each animal shall be given fresh food and water daily, including
holidays.
      (2)   Soft food shall be available to those animals unable to chew
standard dry food.
      (3)   Potable water shall be available to each animal at all times.
      (4)   Food and water containers shall be washed and disinfected daily.
   (F)   All commercial animal establishments shall provide proper medical
treatment from a licensed veterinarian for sick or injured animals.
   (G)   All commercial animal establishments shall provide an adequate room
(cage) temperature for the general health and welfare of the animal, suitable
to that species’ general health and welfare.
   (H)   All commercial animal establishments shall provide for general
cleanliness of its establishment, and shall not permit an insect or rodent
infestation.
   (I)   All commercial animal establishments shall obtain any necessary
licenses or permits from an appropriate state or federal agency to offer for
sale any exotic or wild animal.
   (J)   All commercial animal establishments must be sufficiently ventilated
at all times when animals are present to provide for animal health and well-
being, and to minimize odors, drafts, ammonia levels and moisture condensation.
   (K)   All commercial animal establishments keeping animals indoors must be
well lit to permit routine inspection and cleaning of the facility and
observation of animals.
(Ord. 3-1-20, passed 5-6-2020) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.38 INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   The Director or Assistant Director of Animal Services or any Animal
Control Officer shall be permitted and empowered to make an inspection of any
commercial animal establishment within the county and shall further be
permitted to take photographs of commercial animal establishments during the
inspection.
   (B)   The inspection shall take place upon the verbal request of the
Director or Assistant Director of Animal Services or any Animal Control
Officer, during regular business hours of the commercial animal establishment.
(Ord. 3-1-20, passed 5-6-2020)
CARRIAGE HORSE BUSINESSES
§ 90.50 DEFINITIONS.
   In addition to the definitions provided in §
90.01 of this chapter, the following definition shall apply to the provisions
of this subchapter, unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
   CARRIAGE. Any device designed to be drawn by a horse, in, upon or by which
any person may be transported or drawn on public streets or in public or quasi-
public places.
   CARRIAGE HORSE BUSINESS. Any person owning or operating a horse-drawn
carriage for compensation.
   COMPENSATION. Any fare, reward, tip, donation or other thing of value which
a driver, owner or operator of a horse-drawn carriage accepts or receives, or
offers to receive, in return for furnishing such a service.
   HORSE. An animal of genus equis.
   OWNER or OPERATOR. Any person, group of persons, partnership or any entity
owning or operating carriage horse business.
   PERSON. Includes person, firm, partnership, association and corporation.
(Ord. 3-1-20, passed 5-6-2020)
§ 90.51 LICENSING PROVISIONS.
   (A)   All carriage horse businesses shall obtain and maintain a valid
carriage horse business license in order to operate a carriage horse business
within the county.
   (B)   The carriage horse business licenses shall be issued by the County
Fiscal Court through Animal Services. An application to obtain a carriage horse
business license shall be completed by each carriage horse business. A separate
application must be completed for each carriage horse business location. The
premises for which a license is being granted shall be inspected by Animal
Services. Animal Services shall issue a carriage horse business license to the
applicant upon payment of the required fee and passing of the required
inspection.
   (C)   The carriage horse business license shall be valid for a period of one
year. Licenses issued between 7-1-2019 and 6-30-2020 will be extended until 1-
31-2021. After 1-31-2021, all licenses are due for renewal in the month of
February.
   (D)   The carriage horse business license shall be renewed annually.
   (E)   The annual fee for a carriage horse business license shall be set
annually by the Director of Animal Services and approved by the Fiscal Court.
(Ord. 3-1-20, passed 5-6-2020) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.52 STANDARDS.
   (A)   Any person owning or operating a horse-drawn carriage for compensation
shall, in addition to other requirements of this chapter, comply with the
standards of this section.
   (B)   All working horses shall be provided daily with food and water, free
from contamination. Such food shall be wholesome, edible and of sufficient
quantity and nutritive value to meet the normal daily requirements for the
condition, size and species of the animal.
   (C)   All horses shall have adequate shelter.
      (1)   All buildings and sheds used for stabling horses shall be well-lit
and ventilated. The building must provide adequate protection from the weather
and be kept clean and in good repair at all times. Manure and urine shall be
removed daily.
      (2)   Any enclosures where animals are kept shall be graded and raked as
to keep the surface reasonably dry.
      (3)   Clean bedding must be provided.
   (D)   Flies and other insects must be controlled through general sanitation
and necessary means.
   (E)   All horses used in a carriage horse business must weigh at least 800
pounds and be considered in generally good health. Any owner or operator who
desires to use a horse for this purpose which does not weigh 800 pounds must
apply in writing to Animal Services for approval.
   (F)   Any horse working for a carriage horse business must be examined, not
less than every four months, by a veterinarian, who shall certify the fitness
of the animal to perform such work. Horses exhibiting any of the following
shall be deemed unfit for work:
      (1)   Sores or abrasions caused or likely to be aggravated by the bearing
of services, girth, harness or bridles, unless padding could be utilized to
protect the area;
      (2)   Serious injury or illness; and/or
      (3)   Obvious signs of emaciation, malnutrition, lameness or exhaustion.
   (G)   Horses requiring veterinary care shall not be moved, ridden or driven,
except for the purpose of humane keeping, pasturing or obtaining medical care.
   (H)   Horses shall be properly shod and the hooves shall be kept trimmed.
   (I)   Horses shall be kept clean, particularly in the areas in contact with
a harness or other tack.
   (J)   Horses shall not be worked for more than two hours without being given
a total of 30 minutes of rest. The maximum working period for any one animal is
ten hours out of every 24 hours.
   (K)   No horse shall be overridden or driven to result in overheating or
exhaustion.
   (L)   Horses shall not be worked when the temperature of the workplace
reaches or exceeds 95°F. Animals which are on heat stress-preventive treatment
that has been prescribed by a veterinarian may be worked while under such
treatment on contracts entered into prior to the beginning of such treatment.
   (M)   The speed at which any horse is driven shall not exceed a slow trot.
   (N)   Horses shall be provided water at the loading site and on routes at
all times they are working.
   (O)   All harnesses and bridles shall be kept oiled, cleaned and in good
repair.
   (P)   Carriages must be kept properly lubricated and wheels must spin
freely.
   (Q)   Animal Services may order quarantine on the entire premises where the
animals are being stabled or any part thereof or on any particular animal for
any of the following reasons:
      (1)   Excessive parasitism, diagnosed by a veterinarian, which would
cause the animal to be unfit to be ridden or driven;
      (2)   General malnutrition, as diagnosed by a veterinarian; and/or
      (3)   Presence of contagious or transmittable disease, as diagnosed by a
veterinarian.
   (R)   Owners and operators of a carriage horse business shall not permit
unsanitary conditions to be present on any road in the county, animal rest area
or any area where the animals are kept. All such areas shall be kept clean and
free of conditions which might harbor or be conducive to the breeding of
insects or rodents.
   (S)   No horse shall be made to perform by means of any prod, stick,
electrical shock, physical force or by causing pain or discomfort. Any whip or
riding crop must be used so as not to cause injury to the animal.
   (T)   No horse may pull a carriage carrying more people than it is designed
to carry by the manufacturer, nor shall a carriage be pulled by fewer animals
than provided for by design.
(Ord. 3-1-20, passed 5-6-2020) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person failing to comply with the following sections is guilty of
a violation of this chapter and, in addition to proof of compliance where
applicable, on a first offense shall be fines not less than $25, nor more than
$100, and, on a second or subsequent offense, shall be fined not less than $50,
nor more than $250. Each day constitutes a new and separate violation:
      (1)   Failing to comply with the removal of animal excrement, §
90.02 of this chapter;
      (2)   Tampering with Animal Services traps, §
90.15(M) of this chapter;
      (3)   Failing to comply with mandatory spay/neuter requirements, §
90.16 of this chapter;
      (4)   Failing to license or renew a license for a dog or cat, §
90.17 of this chapter;
      (5)   Failing to vaccinate against the rabies virus, §
90.18 of this chapter;
      (6)   Animal running at large, §
90.20(A) of this chapter;
      (7)   Livestock running at large, §
90.20(B) of this chapter. The owner must reimburse county for all reasonable
fees incurred in capturing, impounding, boarding and necessary medical
services;
      (8)   Owning an animal which is a public nuisance, §
90.20(C) of this chapter;
      (9)   Failing to confine a female dog in heat, §
90.20(D) of this chapter;
      (10)   Failing to have permits for wild or exotic animals, §
90.21 of this chapter;
      (11)   Caregiver failing to adhere to standards for community cats, §
90.22 of this chapter;
      (12)   Humane society failing to obtain license, meet standards or keep
records, §
90.23 of this chapter;
      (13)   Commercial animal establishment failing to obtain license, §
90.36 of this chapter;
      (14)   Commercial animal establishment failing to meet standards, §
90.37 of this chapter;
      (15)   Carriage horse business failing to obtain license, §
90.51 of this chapter; and
      (16)   Carriage horse business failing to meet standards, §
90.52 of this chapter.
   (B)   Any person violating the following sections of this chapter shall be
guilty of a Class B misdemeanor and be fined not more than $250, or up to 90
days in the county jail, or both. Each day constitutes a new and separate
violation:
      (1)   First offense of violations related to the humane treatment of
animals, §
90.19 of this chapter;
      (2)   First offense of owning or possessing a vicious animal, §
90.20 of this chapter. In addition to any penalties imposed, the court shall
order one of the following:
         (a)   As a condition of retaining the animal it must be microchipped,
spayed/neutered and registered as a vicious animal with Animal Services. It
must be confined in a secure, locked enclosure, designed to prevent digging out
or escape and prohibits the entry of small children. The enclosure must have a
sign warning of a vicious animal which is visible from the roadway or any
public access. The enclosure must be inspected and approved by Animal Services.
The animal may only leave the enclosure for veterinary care at which time it
must be muzzled, on a leash no longer than three feet and under the direct
control of the owner. The owner must notify Animal Services in the event the
animal is loose, unconfined, has attacked an animal or humane being or is
deceased; or
         (b)   The court may order the animal euthanized.
      (3)   Being a habitual violator, §
90.03 of this chapter. Any humane society, commercial animal establishment or
carriage horse business guilty of being a habitual violator is subject to
license revocation.
   (C)   Any person violating the following sections of this chapter shall be
guilty of a Class A misdemeanor and be fined not more than $500, or up to one
year in the county jail, or both. Each day constitutes a new and separate
violation:
      (1)   Second or subsequent offense relating to the humane treatment of
animals, §
90.19 of this chapter; and
      (2)   Second or subsequent offense relating to owning or possessing a
vicious animal, §
90.20 of this chapter. If the violation involves the same animal, the court
shall order the animal immediately euthanized.
(Ord. 3-1-20, passed 5-6-2020)
CHAPTER 91: STREETS AND SIDEWALKS; TREES
Section
General Provisions
   
91.01   Maintenance of trees; permission required for certain actions
   
91.02   Yard maintenance
   
91.03   Sidewalk maintenance
Street Openings, Excavations and Restoration
   
91.15   Street opening permit required
   
91.16   Work to be performed in accordance with permit
   
91.17   Restoration work
   
91.18   Application and fee
   
91.19   Emergency street openings
   
91.20   Warranty of permit holder
   
91.21   Traffic maintenance and work specifications
Road and Bridge Projects
   
91.35   Public meeting required
   
91.36   Notice requirements
   
91.37   Public may testify; effect of testimony
   
91.38   Meeting to be held prior to construction
   
91.39   Separate meeting for each project not required
   
91.40   Exemptions from meeting requirement
Obstructions
   
91.55   Unloading on street or sidewalk
   
91.56   Street and sidewalk obstruction
   
91.57   Materials on street or sidewalk
   
91.58   Removal of ice and snow
 
   
91.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 91.01 MAINTENANCE OF TREES; PERMISSION REQUIRED FOR CERTAIN ACTIONS.
   (A)   Maintenance of trees. The responsibility of tree maintenance is
outlined as follows.
      (1)   All city trees located on property owned by the city on public
right-of-way planted by the city shall be maintained by the city.
      (2)   Trees present prior to this chapter in the public right-of-way of
the city shall continue to be the responsibility of the abutting property
owner.
   (B)   Permission required for certain actions.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful to commit any of the following acts with
respect to city trees without the prior written permission of the city:
         (a)   Cut, prune, break, injure, alter or remove any tree or cut,
unduly disturb or interfere in any way with any root of a tree or trees;
         (b)   Fasten any object, rope, wire, sign, insulator or other device
to a tree or trees;
         (c)   Install, remove or injure any guard or device placed to protect
trees;
         (d)   Close or obstruct any open spaces provided about the base of a
tree or trees to permit the access of air, water and fertilizer to the roots of
such tree or trees; and/or
         (e)   Cut any roots within ten feet of any trunk or any roots four
inches or more in diameter.
      (2)   The city may grant written permission if the activity for which
such permission is requested, is in the public interest and is not likely to
injure any city tree. Any person or persons who may cause damage to any city
tree shall be held liable for damages to said tree.
      (3)   No person shall operate, place or maintain, within the drip line of
any city tree, any machinery, equipment, heavy object, stone, rocks, cement,
earth, soil or other substance which may harmfully affect such city tree by
preventing the access of water or air to the roots of such tree or excavate
around to remove earth from or cause any water to flow upon the roots of any
tree. The city may waive in writing, in whole or in part such provisions, but
only to the extent absolutely necessary to alleviate undue hardship in the
provision of necessary public utilities and the appropriate use and enjoyment
of property.
(Ord. 11-2-16, passed 12-7-2016) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.02 YARD MAINTENANCE.
   (A)   Any owner of real estate in the city or any person acting on his, her
or their behalf who, in the course of cutting grass, trimming weeds or other
vegetation or otherwise creating yard waste in the care and maintenance of any
yard or vegetated area in the city, shall refrain from permitting or causing
such cut grass, trimmings or other yard waste from remaining in the streets and
alleys within the city for more than two hours.
   (B)   Any person who violates this section may be cited for same to the
city’s Code Enforcement Board by the Building and Zoning Inspector or the
Police Department providing law enforcement for the city and the Code
Enforcement Board will follow its ordained procedures for enforcement of city
ordinances in addressing the alleged violation including imposition of civil
fines.
(Ord. 7-3-15, passed 8-5-2015)
§ 91.03 SIDEWALK MAINTENANCE.
   (A)   In order to promote safety, protect public and private property and
avoid unsightly nuisances in the city, it shall be the duty of all owners of
real estate in the city to maintain all public sidewalks, including driveways
across sidewalks, to maintain the sidewalks in a slate of good repair.
   (B)   Whenever any public sidewalk or driveway across the sidewalk within
the city shall require repair or replacement, the Building/Zoning Administrator
shall notify the property owner of the condition, advise that the condition
violates this section and give the owner a reasonable period of time to make
any necessary repairs. If the property owner does not make the repairs within
the time allowed or any written extensions thereof given by the Building
Inspector, the Building Inspector shall cite the owner to the city’s Code
Enforcement Board for violating this section and the Code Enforcement Board
will follow its ordained procedures fo enforcement of city ordinances in
addressing the alleged violation including imposition of civil fines.
   (C)   The city may enforce the obligation of all property owners to maintain
sidewalks in good repair by undertaking repair at the city’s expense, and the
costs of same shall be recoverable through action of the Code Enforcement Board
pursuant to KRS 65.8835(1), which costs shall be included in the lien provided
to the city by that statute if unpaid.
(Ord. 7-2-15, passed 8-5-2015)
STREET OPENINGS, EXCAVATIONS AND RESTORATION
§ 91.15 STREET OPENING PERMIT REQUIRED.
   Any person or utility company desiring to open or otherwise disrupt the
surface of any public street, sidewalk or any area within publicly dedicated
right-of-way under the ownership and/or maintenance of the city shall first
obtain a street opening permit from the city prior to commencing said work. A
street opening permit application, on a form provided by the city, shall be
completed and submitted to the Mayor, or his or her designee, prior to the
performance of any work. The Mayor, or his or her designee, shall promptly
review the submitted street opening permit application and, upon determination
that all requisite information has been submitted, approve and issue the permit
without undue delay.
(1997 Code, § 91.01) (Ord. 2-1-06, passed 3-1-2006)
§ 91.16 WORK TO BE PERFORMED IN ACCORDANCE WITH PERMIT.
   The issuance of a street opening permit by the city shall obligate the
permit holder to perform all work in accordance with the submitted permit
application. The permit holder, during the course of street opening operations,
shall be responsible to properly secure, maintain and mark the area
sufficiently to warn the public and avoid any safety hazard to vehicles and
pedestrians. The permit holder shall be responsible for the defense of any
claim from any individual regarding personal injury and/or damage to private
property resulting from the work area covered by the street opening permit.
(1997 Code, § 91.02) (Ord. 2-1-06, passed 3-1-2006)
§ 91.17 RESTORATION WORK.
   All restoration work related to the street opening permit shall be completed
in a prompt and expeditious manner to minimize the amount of time any portion
of the public right-of-way area is disturbed. If permanent restoration, in
accordance with specifications as defined herein, does not occur immediately
upon completion of work, the permit holder shall be required to complete
temporary restoration of all disturbed area in accordance with city
specifications. All permanent restoration work shall be completed within 30
days from the date of the permit, or promptly upon the completion of utility
work, whichever is later, during the time period of April 1 through November
30. During the time period of December 1 through March 31, permanent
restoration shall be completed in a timely manner, subject to appropriate
weather conditions. A final inspection of all permanent restoration work is
required by the Mayor, or his or her designee.
(1997 Code, § 91.03) (Ord. 2-1-06, passed 3-1-2006)
§ 91.18 APPLICATION AND FEE.
   (A)   Each application shall be accompanied with payment of a street opening
permit application fee of $25. Utility companies shall have the option to pay
fees on a semi-annual basis by separate invoice from the city. The fee shall be
doubled ($50) for any applicant who commences with the opening of any street
without first having obtained the required permit. In addition, each
application shall require the submission of a performance guaranty, in the form
of cash, certified check, performance bond, irrevocable letter of credit or
similar instrument, which shall serve as a guarantee that all restoration work
will be completed by the permit holder in accordance with the terms and
provisions of §§
91.15 through
91.21 of this chapter. (The performance guarantee requirement shall not apply
to permits encompassing sod-only cuts and other activity in unimproved areas of
the public right-of-way.) The amount of the performance guaranty shall be based
upon the size/area of the street opening permit in accordance with the
following table:
 
Size of Permit Area         Amount of Performance Guaranty
50 square feet or less      $12 per square foot
Greater than 50 square feet $10 per square foot
 
   (B)   As an option to individual performance guarantees identified above and
submitted with each permit, utility companies may submit a single guarantee, in
the amount of $5,000, to cover all permit activity during the course of any
calendar year.
   (C)   If the exact amount of disturbed area is not available or unknown upon
submission of the street opening permit, the applicant may estimate the
approximate size or area of the permit and submit a corresponding performance
guaranty. Utility companies, contractors and other persons who make multiple
openings within the public right-of-way area during the course of a year may
post a single performance guaranty with the city at the beginning of each year,
based upon the prior year’s activity or estimate for the upcoming year.
   (D)   Upon the completion of permanent restoration of a street opening, the
Mayor, or his or her designee, shall inspect all finished work to ensure
conformance with applicable city specifications. If restoration work is
accepted by the city, the performance guaranty shall be promptly released and
returned to the permit holder. If the restoration work is determined to be non-
compliant with city specifications, the Mayor, or his or her designee, shall
notify the permit holder, in writing, of the specific deficiency in restoration
work. A second inspection shall be performed in 30 days by a city
representative to determine if the reported deficiency has been corrected. If a
deficiency still exists, the Mayor, or his or her designee, shall issue a final
written notice to the permit holder advising that if restoration work
compliance is not completed within ten days the city shall order the work
completed at the cost of the permit holder through application of the
performance guaranty and the permit holder shall forfeit any and all rights to
the performance guaranty, or portion of said performance instrument if an
annual guaranty has been posted. Any dispute or disagreement regarding
compliance with the terms and provisions of §§
91.15 through
91.21 of this chapter may be submitted to the City Council, in writing, for
review and consideration.
(1997 Code, § 91.04) (Ord. 2-1-06, passed 3-1-2006)
§ 91.19 EMERGENCY STREET OPENINGS.
   Notwithstanding the provisions of §§
91.15 through
91.21 of this chapter, emergency street openings by utility companies and other
persons shall be permitted when emergency repair of a utility system is
warranted due to breakages, service disruption and safety considerations. Any
person performing an emergency street opening shall promptly, upon the next
regular business day that the city offices are open for business, complete and
submit a street opening permit application along with the required fee and
performance guaranty. All other provisions of §§
91.15 through
91.21 of this chapter shall apply to emergency street opening work and
restoration requirements.
(1997 Code, § 91.05) (Ord. 2-1-06, passed 3-1-2006)
§ 91.20 WARRANTY OF PERMIT HOLDER.
   All completed restoration work performed in conjunction with a street
opening permit shall be warranted, by the permit holder for a period of one
year from the date of acceptance by the city.
(1997 Code, § 91.06) (Ord. 2-1-06, passed 3-1-2006)
§ 91.21 TRAFFIC MAINTENANCE AND WORK SPECIFICATIONS.
   (A)   Traffic maintenance.
      (1)   The permittee shall maintain traffic through the project at all
times in conformance with Kentucky Transportation Cabinet requirements. The
contractor shall adequately mark, through the use of barrels, flashing lights,
portable gates and/or other devices approved the Mayor, or his or her designee,
the limits of the project area and those areas of the site which are
temporarily closed to traffic.
      (2)   During the course of the normal working day, the permittee shall
ensure the safety of the public by providing a sufficient number of flaggers to
assist the traffic flow through the construction area. If, at the completion of
the normal working day, any trench for utility construction has not been
completely backfilled and restored, a temporary cover properly secured, such as
a metal plate or another approved device, shall be placed over the portion of
the trench remaining open. Improperly secured temporary covers requiring
emergency service by the city shall be billed directly to the public utility.
      (3)   The permittee shall notify the residents and businesses at least 48
hours in advance of when their drives will be blocked during construction,
except during emergency repair work. If business property is involved, an
alternate access must be provided if blockage exceeds one hour, except during
emergency repair work. Length of residential driveway closures shall be kept to
a minimum.
   (B)   Restricted working hours. Unless a cut must be made in an “emergency”
situation, Bromley streets have restricted working hours from 7:00 a.m. to 6:00
p.m. Approval is necessary for any deviation.
   (C)   Tunneling, trenching, backfilling and restoration.
      (1)   Tunneling.
         (a)   All streets are to be bored or tunneled unless otherwise
approved by the Mayor, or his or her designee.
         (b)   Tunnelling is often necessary where pipe or conduit passes under
curb, or other underground facilities. The permittee shall not do any tunneling
except by permission of the Mayor, or his or her designee. Where tunneling has
been resorted to, the permittee shall bed the pipe or conduit as specified in
“backfilling and restoration” in division (C)(3) below. The remainder of the
space from top of this fill to the roof of the tunnel shall be completely
filled with 1:4:8 concrete of suitable consistency, thoroughly tamped to fill
the entire space, and to afford a rigid support for the tunnel roof for its
entire area. The complete backfilling of the tunnel shall be performed to pass
the approval of the Mayor, or his or her designee.
         (c)   In the installation of small service pipes, it is suggested that
the pipe be jacked through or that a hole of sufficient size be bored. In such
cases, charge for inspection and issuance of permit only will be made for that
portion of street over services installed.
      (2)   Trenching (including utility repairs).
         (a)   Whenever culverts, sewers, manholes, manholes, valve chambers,
catch basin connections, water mains, gas pipe, electric conduits or house
connections thereto, or any type of subsurface facilities are exposed in
excavating, the permittee shall, at his or her own expense, protect them from
damage.
         (b)   The length, width and location of the trench or street cut, also
the manner in which the work is done, shall be under the direction of the
Mayor, or his or her designee. Every precaution shall be taken to safeguard the
work and to inconvenience the public as little as possible.
         (c)   The permittee shall carefully saw cut and remove the paving and
base course materials and store them in piles separated from the excavated
earth. Excavated material shall be placed so as not to obstruct gutters or
drains and in such manner as will cause minimum inconvenience to the public. If
necessary, temporary covers for gutters shall be installed to insure adequate
drainage. In special cases, it may be necessary to remove part or all of the
excavated material from the street.
         (d)   Openings shall be properly sheeted and braced where necessary to
prevent caving, slipping or cracking of sides. Sheeting and bracing used to
support the sides of the opening shall be carefully removed as the backfilling
of the trench progresses, but if considered, by the Mayor, or his or her
designee, necessary for the protection of the banks, the sheeting and bracing
shall be cut off two feet below the surface of the subgrade and left in place.
If pavement along the sides of the opening is, or becomes undermined and
unsupported, the permittee shall, at his or her own cost and expense, break
down and remove the undermined pavement and the foundation thereof and shall
also remove loose earth and replace with earth properly compacted or low
strength mortar backfill in the manner provided under “backfilling and
restoration” in division (C)(3) below.
      (3)   Backfilling and restoration.
         (a)   Specifications. Backfill and restoration of pavement and sod
areas shall conform to the following specifications.
            1.   Low-strength mortar backfill material; description. This work
shall consist of the placement of a flowable mixture of Portland cement, fly
ash and sand for backfilling conduits under public roadways. Materials shall
be:
               a.   Cement 801.01;
               b.   Fly ash shall meet ASTM C-618;
               c.   Fine aggregate shall be natural sand or sand manufactured
from stone, gravel or air-cooled slag. The gradation of the sand shall meet the
requirements of 8 04. The sand shall be fine enough to stay in suspension in
the mixture to the extent required for proper flow. The Mayor, or his or her
designee reserves the right to reject the sand if a flowable mixture cannot be
produced; and
               d.   Water used for mortar backfill shall be free from oil,
acid, strong alkalies or vegetable matter.
            2.   Mortar mix proportioning. The initial trial mixture shall
consist of the following quantities of materials per cubic yard:
 
Class          LSM
Cement         50 lbs.
Fly ash        250 lbs.
Sand 2         910 lbs.
Water (target) 500 lbs.
 
               a.   Adjustments of the proportions may be made by the providing
the total absolute volume of the materials is maintained.
               b.   The supplier shall make one or more one-cubic yard trial
batches at different water contents to ensure a flowable mortar. Mixture is too
dry when cracks develop in the mortar as it flows into place.
               c.   To expedite settlement of the mortar, it will be necessary
for bleed water to appear on the surface immediately after the mortar is struck
off. A delay in bleeding indicates there are too many fines in the mixture, so
the fly ash quantity shall be reduced in increments of 50 pounds until the
mixture is bleeding freely. Approximately 60 pounds of sand shall be added to
replace each 50-pound increments of fly ash to maintain the original yield.
               d.   The mortar shall be delivered to the site of the work and
discharge shall be completed within two and one-half hours.
               e.   Flowable mortar shall be discharged from the mixer by any
reasonable means into the space to be filled. The fill material shall be
brought up uniformly to the fill line shown on the plans or as directed by the
Mayor, or his or her designee. Placing of material over low-strength mortar
backfill may commence as soon as the surface water is gone or as directed.
Before placing the flowable mortar as backfill for a storm sewer conduit, the
permittee shall secure the conduit to prevent it from floating during placement
of the flowable mortar. The permittee’s proposed method of backfill placement
and proposed method of holding the conduit at the plan grade and flowline
elevations should be discussed prior to construction.
         (b)   Excavation material for compacted backfill. Any material from
excavation of trenches which is desired to be used for backfill above pipes,
which is to be compacted, shall be clean and shall be of such composition that
said material can be compacted to 95% relative density with near optimum water
content.
         (c)   Seeding and protection. All grass areas disturbed by
construction shall be restored by seeding and mulching in conformance with
Kentucky Transportation Cabinet requirements.
         (d)   Full-depth pavement sawing. All existing pavement to be removed
shall be sawed full depth at the limits of removal, using a diamond saw blade
to provide a uniform edge and prevent damage to the pavement that is to remain
in place. All pavement sawing should be performed at right angles whenever
possible.
         (e)   Item 403 - sealing edges. All edges of the asphalt concrete
surface course constructed shall be sealed with asphalt cement meeting the same
specifications as provided in Kentucky Transportation Cabinet requirements.
Sealing edges shall be done neatly and without more than one-half inch of the
sealant being visible on the surface. Any extra sealant applied to visible
surfaces shall be carefully and thoroughly removed by the permittee.
         (f)   Responsibility for dust, dirt and appearance.
            1.   The permittee shall do everything possible to minimize dust
and dirt, and to keep the appearance of the area surrounding the street opening
in good order. The permittee shall use calcium chloride or equal to keep dust
to a minimum. After the close of each working day, the permittee shall see that
the surrounding area around the opening is swept up, and as clean as possible.
At no time will it be permissible to leave piles of excavated dirt in the
street or sidewalk. If necessary, the area will be washed with water.
            2.   The permittee shall do whatever the Mayor, or his or her
designee, deems necessary to clean up the area.
(1997 Code, § 91.07) (Ord. 2-1-06, passed 3-1-2006) Penalty, see §
91.99
ROAD AND BRIDGE PROJECTS
§ 91.35 PUBLIC MEETING REQUIRED.
    Before the city expends state-derived tax revenues on a municipal highway,
road, street or bridge, it shall provide an opportunity to the public to
provide input in a public meeting, for which notice has been given under KRS
61.823(2) to (4) with regard to the project and to priorities for use of tax
moneys for road and bridge purposes.
(KRS 174.100) (1997 Code, § 91.15)
§ 91.36 NOTICE REQUIREMENTS.
    Prior to the contemplated date of expenditure of state-derived tax revenues
on a road or bridge by the city, the city shall include the topic as a specific
item on the public meeting agenda.
(KRS 174.100(1)) (1997 Code, § 91.16)
§ 91.37 PUBLIC MAY TESTIFY; EFFECT OF TESTIMONY.
    (A)   At the meeting, the city shall allow any person to speak with regard
to any proposed project, any project which he or she feels should be built or
done which has not been proposed, priorities for completion of projects, and
any other matter related to road or bridge projects.
(KRS 174.100(1))
   (B)   The city shall not be bound by the comments and input provided as the
meeting, but shall give due consideration to them.
(KRS 174.100(2)) (1997 Code, § 91.17)
§ 91.38 HEARING TO BE HELD PRIOR TO CONSTRUCTION.
    The city shall not begin construction on a road or bridge project wherein
state-derived tax revenues are involved until the meeting as provided in this
subchapter has been held.
(KRS 174.100(3))  (1997 Code, § 91.18)
§ 91.39 SEPARATE MEETING FOR EACH PROJECT NOT REQUIRED.
   (A)   This subchapter shall not be construed to require a separate meeting
for each project.
   (B)   A single meeting encompassing the entire road and bridge program, if
all projects subsequently undertaken have been identified at the meeting, shall
meet the requirements of this subchapter.
(KRS 174.100(4))  (1997 Code, § 91.19)
§ 91.40 EXEMPTIONS FROM MEETING REQUIREMENT.
   The provisions of this subchapter shall not apply to emergency repair or
replacement of roads or bridges necessitated by natural or human-caused
disasters, nor to street cleaning or snow removal operations.
(KRS 174.100(5)) (1997 Code, § 91.20)
OBSTRUCTIONS
§ 91.55 UNLOADING ON STREET OR SIDEWALK.
   No person shall unload any heavy material in the streets of the city by
throwing or letting the material fall upon the pavement of any street, alley,
sidewalk or other public way, without first placing some sufficient protection
over the pavement.
(1997 Code, § 91.30) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.56 STREET AND SIDEWALK OBSTRUCTION.
   (A)   No person shall obstruct any street, alley, sidewalk or other public
way within the city by erecting thereon any fence or building, or permitting
any fence or building to remain thereon.
   (B)   Each day that any fence or building is permitted to remain upon the
public way shall constitute a separate offense.
(1997 Code, § 91.31) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.57 MATERIALS ON STREET OR SIDEWALK.
   (A)   No person shall encumber any street or sidewalk.
   (B)   No owner, occupant or person having the care of any building or lot of
land, bordering on any street or sidewalk, shall permit it to be encumbered
with barrels, boxes, cans, articles or substances of any kind, so as to
interfere with the free and unobstructed use thereof.
(1997 Code, § 91.32) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.58 REMOVAL OF ICE AND SNOW.
   It shall be the duty of the owner or of the occupant of each and every
parcel of real estate in the city abutting upon any sidewalk to keep the
sidewalk abutting his or her premises free and clear of snow and ice to the
extent feasible under the prevailing weather conditions, and to remove
therefrom all snow and ice, to the extent feasible under the prevailing weather
conditions, accumulated thereon within a reasonable time which will ordinarily
not exceed 12 hours after the abatement of any storm during which the snow and
ice may have accumulated.
(1997 Code, § 91.33) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and shall, upon conviction, be fined not more than $500.
(1997 Code, § 91.99)
CHAPTER 92: NUISANCES; HEALTH AND SANITATION
Section
General Provisions
   
92.01   Definitions
   
92.02   Common law and statutory nuisances
   
92.03   Certain conditions declared a nuisance
   
92.04   Abatement procedure
   
92.05   Nuisance created by others
   
92.06   Suspension of license
   
92.07   Criminal activity as public nuisance
Junk Vehicles and Appliances
   
92.20   Definitions
   
92.21   Repair work on motor vehicles within residential districts
   
92.22   Storage of junk motor vehicles and appliances
   
92.23   Exceptions and exemptions
   
92.24   Authority of Police Department
   
92.25   Notice
   
92.26   Implied consent
   
92.27   Removal and disposition
   
92.28   Risk of loss
   
92.29   Reclamation
   
92.30   Removal of nuisance before city removal
   
92.31   Junkyards to have suitable screen
   
92.32   Violation prohibited
   
92.33   Violations; enforcement system
 
   
92.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 92.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AUTOMOBILE COLLECTOR. A person who collects and restores motor vehicles.
(KRS 65.8840(1)(b))
   AUTOMOBILE PARTS. Any portion or parts of any motor-driven vehicle as
detached from the vehicle as a whole.
   IMMINENT DANGER. A condition which is likely to cause serious or life-
threatening injury or death at any time.
(KRS 65.8840(1)(e))
   INOPERATIVE CONDITION. Unable to move under its own power due to defective
or missing parts, and which has remained in that condition for a period of not
less than ten consecutive days.
   MOTOR VEHICLE. Any style or type of motor-driven vehicle used for the
conveyance of persons or property.
   ORDINARY PUBLIC VIEW. A sight line within normal visual range by a person on
a public street or sidewalk adjacent to real property.
(KRS 65.8840(1)(h))
   PARTS CAR. An automobile that is not intended to be operated along streets
and roads, but is used to provide parts for the restoration of other
automobiles.
(KRS 65.8840(1)(j))
   PUBLIC NUISANCE. Any act, thing, occupation, condition or use of property
which shall continue for a length of time as to:
      (1)   Substantially annoy, injure or endanger the comfort, health, repose
or safety of the public;
      (2)   Unlawfully and substantially interfere with, obstruct or tend to
obstruct or render dangerous for passage any street, alley, highway, sidewalk,
stream, ditch or drainage; or
      (3)   Essentially interfere with the comfortable enjoyment of life and
property, or tend to depreciate the value of property of others.
   SCRAP METAL. Pieces or parts of steel, iron, tin, zinc, copper, aluminum or
any alloy thereof, whether covered with porcelain or any other material,
whether intact or in parts, which has served its usefulness in its original
form and can no longer be used for its originally intended purpose.
   UNFIT FOR FURTHER USE. In a dangerous condition; having defective or missing
parts; or in a condition generally as to be unfit for further use as a
conveyance.
(1997 Code, § 92.01)
§ 92.02 COMMON LAW AND STATUTORY NUISANCES.
   In addition to what is declared in this subchapter to be a public nuisance,
those offenses which are known to the common law and statutes of the
commonwealth as public nuisances may be treated as such and be proceeded
against as is provided in this subchapter or in accordance with any other
provision of law.
(1997 Code, § 92.02) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.03 CERTAIN CONDITIONS DECLARED A NUISANCE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the owner, occupant or person having control
or management of any land within the city to permit a public nuisance to
develop thereon.
   (B)   The following conditions are declared to be public nuisances:
      (1)   Dangerous trees or stacks adjoining street. Any tree, stack or
other object standing in such a condition that it will, if the condition is
allowed to continue, endanger the life, limb or property of, or cause hurt,
damage or injury to persons or property upon the public streets or public ways
adjacent thereto, by the falling thereof or of parts thereof;
      (2)   Accumulation of rubbish. An accumulation on any premises of filth,
refuse, trash, garbage or other waste material which endangers the public
health, welfare or safety, or materially interferes with the peaceful enjoyment
by owners or occupants of adjacent property because of the danger that it will
catch or communicate fire, attract and propagate vermin, rodents or insects, or
blow rubbish into any street, sidewalk or property of another;
      (3)   Storage of explosives. The storage of explosive material which
creates a safety hazard to other property or persons in the vicinity;
      (4)   Weeds and grass. The excessive growth of weeds, grass or other
vegetation. Unless otherwise provided, EXCESSIVE shall mean growth to a height
of 12 inches or more;
      (5)   Open wells. The maintenance of any open, uncovered, or insecurely
covered cistern, cellar, well, pit, excavation or vault situated upon private
premises in any open or unfenced lot or place;
      (6)   Trees and shrubbery obstructing streets, sidewalks and drainage.
The growing and maintenance of trees or shrubbery which in any way interfere
with the use, construction or maintenance of streets or sidewalks, cause injury
to streets or sidewalks or constitute an obstruction to drainage;
      (7)   Keeping of animals. The failure to keep an animal’s pen, yard, lot
or other enclosure in a sanitary condition and free from preventable offensive
odors; and
      (8)   Junk; scrap metal; motor vehicles. The storage of motor vehicles in
an inoperative condition, motor vehicles unfit for further use, automobile
parts or scrap metal within the city limits, except on premises authorized by
the city for those purposes.
(1997 Code, § 92.03) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.04 ABATEMENT PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (B) below, it shall be unlawful for the
owner, occupant or person having control or management of any premises within a
local government to permit a public nuisance, health hazard or source of filth
to develop thereon through the accumulation of:
      (1)   Junked or wrecked automobiles, vehicles, machines or other similar
scrap or salvage materials, excluding inoperative farm equipment;
      (2)   One or more mobile or manufactured homes as defined in KRS 227.550
that are junked, wrecked or inoperative and which are not inhabited;
      (3)   Rubbish; or
      (4)   The excessive growth of weeds or grass.
   (B)   The provisions of division (A)(1) above shall not apply to:
      (1)   Junked, wrecked or inoperative automobiles, vehicles, machines or
other similar scrap or salvage materials located on the business premises of a:
         (a)   Licensed automotive recycling dealer as described in KRS 190.010
(8);
         (b)   Used motor vehicle dealer as defined in KRS 190.010(6): or
         (c)   Motor vehicle auction dealer as defined in KRS 190.010(11).
      (2)   Junked, wrecked, or inoperative motor vehicles, including parts
cars, stored on private premises by automobile collectors, whether as a hobby
or a profession, if these motor vehicles and parts cars are stored out of
ordinary public view by means of suitable fencing, trees, shrubbery or other
means; and
      (3)   Any motor vehicle as defined in KRS 281.010 that is owned,
controlled, operated, managed or leased by a motor carrier.
   (C)   An owner shall not permit any structure upon his or her premises to
become unfit and unsafe for human habitation, occupancy or use or to permit
conditions to exist on the structure or premises which are dangerous or
injurious to the health or safety of the occupants of the structure, the
occupants of neighboring structures or other residents of the local government.
   (D)   A local government may provide by ordinance for the abatement and
decontamination of a property where a methamphetamine contamination notice has
been posted as provided in KRS 224.1-410. Pursuant to divisions (G) and (H)
below, notice and an opportunity to request a hearing shall be afforded to an
owner prior to decontamination of the property. A lien for all fees, charges,
and costs incurred by the local government in the enforcement of an ordinance
related to decontaminating a property where a methamphetamine contamination
notice has been posted pursuant to KRS 224.1-410, shall be placed on the
property pursuant to division (I) below. Notwithstanding divisions (L) and (M)
below, the costs of abatement and decontamination of a property where a
methamphetamine contamination notice has been posted are recoverable throughout
the county.
   (E) The city may establish by ordinance reasonable standards and procedures
for the enforcement of this section. The procedures shall comply with all
applicable statutes, administrative regulations or codes. Any ordinance
establishing these procedures may be enforced by any means authorized by law.
Proper notice shall be given to owners before any action is taken pursuant to
this section and, prior to the decontamination of a property where a
methamphetamine contamination notice has been posted pursuant to KRS 224.1-410
or the demolition of any unfit or unsafe structure, the opportunity to request
a hearing shall be afforded the owner.
   (F)   Unless imminent danger exists on the subject premises that
necessitates immediate action, the local government shall send, within 14 days
of a final determination after hearing or waiver of hearing by the owner, a
copy of the determination to any lienholder of record of the subject premises
by first-class mail with proof of mailing. The lienholder of record may, within
45 days from receipt of that notice, correct the violations cited or elect to
pay all civil fines assessed for the violation and all charges and fees
incurred by the local government in connection with the enforcement of the
ordinance, including abatement costs, as permitted by division (G) below.
   (G)   The city shall have a lien against the property for all civil fines
assessed for the violation and for all charges and fees incurred by the city in
connection with the enforcement of the ordinance, including abatement costs.
The affidavit of the code enforcement officer shall constitute prima facie
evidence of the amount of the lien and the regularity of the proceedings
pursuant to this section, and shall be recorded in the office of the County
Clerk. The lien shall be notice to all persons from the time of its recording
and shall bear interest thereafter until paid. The lien created shall take
precedence over all other liens, except state, county, school board and city
taxes, except as provided in division (H) below. The city shall possess the
lien for ten years following the date of the final, non-appealable order of a
code enforcement board or final judgment of the court. The lien may be enforced
by judicial proceeding.
   (H)   The lien provided in division (G) above shall not take precedence or
priority over a previously recorded lien if:
      (1)   The city failed to provide the lienholder a copy of the
determination in accordance with division (F) above; or
      (2)   The lienholder received a copy of the determination as required by
division (F) above, and the lienholder corrected the violations or paid all
civil fines assessed for the violation and all charges and fees incurred by the
local government in connection with the enforcement of the ordinance, including
abatement costs.
   (I)   (1)   In addition to the remedy prescribed in division (E) above or
any other remedy authorized by law, the owner of a premises upon which a lien
has been attached pursuant to this section shall be personally liable for the
amount of the lien, including all civil fines assessed for the violation and
all charges, fees and abatement costs incurred by the city in connection with
the enforcement of the ordinance.
      (2)   The city may bring a civil action against the owner and shall have
the same remedies as provided for the recovery of a debt owed.
      (3)   The failure of the city to comply with division (F) above, and the
failure of a lien to take precedence over previously filed liens as provided in
division (H) above, shall not limit or restrict any remedies that the city has
against the owner of the premises.
   (J)   The provisions of divisions (E), (G) and (I) above shall not apply to
an owner, occupant or person having control or management of any land located
in an unincorporated area if the owner, occupant or person is not the generator
of the rubbish or is not dumping or knowingly allowing the dumping of the
rubbish and has made reasonable efforts to prevent the dumping of rubbish by
other persons onto the premises.
   (K)   The right to request a hearing pursuant to this section shall be
limited to a period of 30 days after notice has been placed on the property and
has been sent by certified mail return receipt requested.
(KRS 65.8840(3) - (14)) (1997 Code, § 92.04) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.05 NUISANCE CREATED BY OTHERS.
   For the purposes of this chapter, it shall not be essential that the
nuisance be created or contributed to by the owner, occupant or person having
control or management of the premises, but merely that the nuisance be created
or contributed to by licensees, invitees, guests or other persons for whose
conduct the owner or operator is responsible, or by persons for whose conduct
the owner or operator is not responsible, but by the exercise of reasonable
care ought to have become aware of.
(1997 Code, § 92.05)
§ 92.06 SUSPENSION OF LICENSE.
   (A)   Whenever it is shown that a nuisance is associated with or caused by
the conduct of a business or activity licensed by the city and that the
existence of the nuisance presents an immediate threat to the public health,
safety or welfare, the City Council may suspend the license of the person or
persons conducting the business or activity.
   (B)   The City Clerk shall cause a notice of the suspension to be served
personally upon the licensee, or upon any responsible agent of the licensee, at
the premises where the licensed business or activity is being conducted. The
notice shall clearly inform the licensee of the reason for the suspension and
the conditions that must be met for the suspension to be removed.
   (C)   Upon application of the licensee, and upon a showing that the nuisance
has been satisfactorily abated and that any other reasonable conditions set
forth in the notice have been met, the City Council may remove the suspension.
(1997 Code, § 92.06)
§ 92.07 CRIMINAL ACTIVITY AS A PUBLIC NUISANCE.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purposes of this section, the definitions are as
set forth herein, or if not established herein, then as defined in §
92.01 of this chapter.
      CRIMINAL ACTIVITY NUISANCE. Any building or premises where law
enforcement officers have, on more than one occasion in the preceding 12-month
period, cited or arrested persons for crimes involving prostitution, controlled
substances, disorderly conduct or gambling, or have executed court-issued
search warrants for crimes involving prostitution, controlled substances,
disorderly conduct or gambling.
      CRIMINAL NUISANCE VIOLATION. A criminal citation, arrest or court-issued
search warrant for crimes involving prostitution, controlled substances,
alcohol, disorderly conduct or gambling.
   (B)   Unlawful use of property. No owner of residential, commercial or
vacant property located in the city shall allow his or her property to be used
as the site for any criminal activity nuisance after having received notice
pursuant to this code that the property has been used for the commission of a
criminal activity nuisance. A legal or equitable owner of such property is
deemed to have knowledge of such activity upon receipt of the notice as set
forth in this code of ordinances.
   (C)   Destroying orders or notices. No person or owner shall destroy, remove
or deface any order or notice posted by any Code Enforcement Officer or other
officer of the city.
   (D)   Disobeying orders. No person or owner shall disobey any order issued
by any Code Enforcement Officer, or other officer of the city, or use or occupy
or permit any other person to use or occupy any premises ordered closed by the
Building Inspector, the Code Enforcement Board, a Code Enforcement Officer or
other city officer.
   (E)   Duty of Police Department; duty of city. The Police Department
utilized by the city shall, as soon as possible but not less than every 30 days
after criminally citing or arresting persons or executing court-issued search
warrants for crimes involving prostitution, controlled substances, alcohol,
disorderly conduct or gambling, notify the Mayor in writing of the specific
violation investigated, the address of the property on or in which the
violations occurred, and the circumstances of the violation. It shall be the
responsibility of the Mayor to pass such information along to the Code
Enforcement Department. After the police notify the Mayor of a criminal
nuisance violation at a property for the first time, the Code Enforcement
Department shall notify the owner of the property of such Violation by regular
U.S. mail at the last known address of record for such property owner. If no
address is noted, mailing the notice of such violation by regular U.S. mail to
the property address, addressed to the last known owner of record shall be
sufficient.
   (F)   Notice of criminal activity nuisance.
      (1)   Whenever the Code Enforcement Department receives information of a
second or subsequent criminal activity nuisance occurring in or upon
residential, commercial or vacant property, in other words, a second criminal
nuisance violation has occurred at the property, it shall notify the owner that
the property is a criminal activity nuisance and that the nuisance must be
abated. If a property owner, or his or her tenant reports an illegal activity
that leads to a criminal citation or court-ordered search warrant, such
citation or warrant will not be considered a criminal nuisance violation for
purposes of this section.
      (2)   The notice required by this section shall be mailed by certified
mail, return receipt requested. If certified mail is not accepted or received
by the property owner, notice may be served by personal delivery upon the
owner. If the whereabouts of the property owner is unknown and it cannot be
ascertained by a Code Enforcement Officer in the exercise of reasonable
diligence, or if the whereabouts of the owner is known and he or she refuses to
accept personal service or the certified letter mailed to him or her, then the
Code Enforcement Officer shall make an affidavit to that effect, and
thereafter, the Officer may serve the notice by posting a copy of it in a
conspicuous place on the premises, by sending a copy of the notice by regular
U.S. mail to the property owner’s last known mailing address, by newspaper
publication, pursuant to KRS Chapter 424, and by recording the notice in the
County Clerk’s office.
   (G)   Abatement.
      (1)   Should the criminal activity nuisance not be abated at the time
stated in the notice, or by any extension granted by the city or its agencies,
the Chief Code Enforcement Officer or Mayor shall be authorized at any time
thereafter to issue an order closing and vacating the premises, or portions
thereof, to the extent necessary to abate the criminal activity nuisance. Such
closing and vacating shall be for such period as the Chief Code Enforcement
Officer or Mayor reasonably may direct, but in no event shall the closing and
vacating be for a period of more than one year from the date of the closing. A
close and vacate order issued by the Chief Code Enforcement Officer or Mayor
pursuant to this section is not an act of possession, ownership or control by
the city or its officers and/or agents. A close and vacate order may be
rescinded within 14 days after the criminal activity nuisance is abated unless
such premises are the site of repeated close and vacate orders.
      (2)   If the premises consist of multi-unit dwellings or mixed uses and
the criminal activity nuisance has occurred solely within a particular unit or
particular units, the authority to close and vacate is restricted to the
particular unit or particular units in which the criminal activity nuisance has
occurred, and does not extend to any other unit or units within the premises.
      (3)   Upon the issuance of any order provided for in this section, a copy
of the order shall be served upon the owner of the property in the same manner
as proscribed in division (F) above, and a copy shall be conspicuously posted
on the property.
      (4)   If any person, or owner fails to comply with an order to close and
vacate issued pursuant to this section, the city may take any or all of the
following actions in order to gain compliance with its order:
         (a)   Prohibit the furnishing of utility service, including, but not
limited to, gas, electric, water, and heating oil, to the premises hy any
public utility holding a franchise to use the streets and public ways of the
city; and
         (b)   Revoke the certificate of occupancy of the premises or the
occupational license of a business; and
         (c)   Use any other legal remedy available under the laws of the
commonwealth.
      (5)   Pursuant to the provisions of KRS 65.8840(8) - (10), the city shall
possess a lien against the property for all fines, penalties, charges and fees
imposed and for the reasonable value of labor and materials used to abate the
public nuisance. This lien shall be superior to and have priority over all
other subsequent liens upon the property, except taxes and may be enforced by
judicial proceeding.
   (H)   Eviction as a defense.
      (1)   After an owner has been provided notice in accordance with the
provisions of this section of such violation, it shall be a defense of the
owner to a violation of this section if the owner has instituted an eviction
proceeding within 30 days against the offending tenant or occupants of the
offending premises, and the owner completes that eviction within 45 days of
commencement. In the event that judicial or quasi-judicial proceedings prohibit
an owner from proceeding with an eviction, abatement of the public nuisance by
eviction will be stayed until the judicial or quasi-judicial proceeding is
resolved.
      (2)   In the case of multi-unit dwellings, the only parties necessary to
name in an eviction proceeding are the occupants of the actual unit or units
involved with the activity suspected, or the occupants suspected of the
activity described in the notice.
   (I)   Other relief from order. Should the property owner request relief from
the close and vacate order, other than as provided within this section, such
property owner may request a hearing before the Code Enforcement Board. The
property owner may appear in person or in person represented by counsel. In any
event such property owner shall be present at such hearing, and prepared to
testify. At such hearing, all parties to testify shall be sworn before the
Board. The Board shall hear evidence first from the property owner as to why
the Board should vacate or suspend the provisions of the order to close and
vacate the property. The burden of proof shall be upon the property owner to
show by clear and convincing evidence that the criminal activity nuisance has
been abated and will not be maintained or permitted in any unit of the
premises. Upon such proof being presented to the Board and the Board finding
that such proof has met the standard of clear and convincing evidence, the
Board shall vacate or suspend the provisions of the order to close and vacate
the property.
   (J)   Abatement actions not in violation of law. Actions taken by an owner
to abate a criminal activity nuisance shall not be deemed to be violations of
fair housing or landlord-tenant laws.
   (K)   Other remedies available. Enforcement of this section does not impair
or restrict the ability of the city to bring a separate action to revoke the
occupational license of a landlord or business who allows a criminal activity
nuisance to exist on the landlord’s property or to bring an action before the
Code Enforcement Board for the imposition of civil fines, as set forth herein.
No civil fines will be assessed by the Code Enforcement Board until after
notice is sent pursuant to division (F) above or if an eviction proceeding has
been instituted pursuant to division (H) above.
(1997 Code, § 92.11) (Ord. 6-2-08, passed 7-2-2008; Ord. 4-1-11, passed 5-4-
2011)
JUNK VEHICLES AND APPLIANCES
§ 92.20 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AUTOMOBILE or MOTOR VEHICLE PARTS. Any portion or parts of any motor-driven
vehicle as detached from the vehicle as a whole.
   IMPOUNDMENT PERIOD. The 60 consecutive day period beginning the day the
nuisance is removed pursuant to this chapter.
   JUNK APPLIANCES. Any unit, or part thereof, of machinery, furniture, or
equipment, whether mechanical or powered by some source of energy or not, which
is not functioning efficiently and effectively, is unfit for further use, or is
abandoned, as those terms are defined in this section, including, but not
limited to stoves, refrigerators, television sets, beds, mattresses, lamps,
tools and objects of art. The term JUNK APPLIANCES shall not apply where the
unit does not exceed 15 cubic feet or a combination of units in the immediate
proximity to each other does not exceed 20 cubic feet.
   JUNK MOTOR VEHICLE.
      (1)   MOTOR VEHICLE IN ANY INOPERATIVE CONDITION. Any style or type of
motor-driven vehicle used or useful for the conveyance of persons or property
which is unable to move under its own power due to defective or missing parts;
or unable to be legally operated on a public highway due to a lack of current
state registration or licensure, or a lack of display of a current city
sticker.
      (2)   MOTOR VEHICLE UNFIT FOR FURTHER USE. Any style or type of motor-
driven vehicle used for the conveyance of persons or property which is in a
dangerous condition, has defective or missing parts, or is in such condition as
to be unfit for further use as a conveyance.
      (3)   ABANDONED MOTOR VEHICLE. Any motor-driven vehicle which the owner
thereof, including any person having a security interest therein, has deserted
and left unclaimed on any lot or parcel of ground, public or private, within
the corporate limits of the city for a period in excess of seven consecutive
days.
   MOTOR VEHICLE JUNKYARD or APPLIANCE JUNKYARD. Any place where one or more
junked vehicles or junked appliances as those terms are defined in this
section, are deposited, parked or otherwise located pursuant to the legitimate
engagement in the business of dealing with junked motor vehicles or appliances,
by one who has obtained the requisite license or written permission of the
governing body of the city.
(1997 Code, § 92.15) (Ord. 3-1-91, passed 4-6-1991)
§ 92.21 REPAIR WORK ON MOTOR VEHICLES WITHIN RESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS.
   The practice of persons repairing, stripping and painting motor vehicles of
which the person is not the owner, whether for remuneration or otherwise,
within the residential districts of thecity is prohibited and declared to be a
public nuisance.
(1997 Code, § 92.16) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.22 STORAGE OF JUNK MOTOR VEHICLES AND APPLIANCES.
   The presence of any junked motor vehicle, junked appliance, related refuse
or rubbish from such vehicles or appliances, or unsightly automobile or motor
vehicle parts on any lot or parcel of land, public or private, within the
territorial limits of the city shall be deemed a public nuisance. However, an
abandoned motor vehicle must be abandoned for a period in excess of seven
consecutive days unless it becomes hazardous due to its location. It shall be
unlawful for any person to cause or maintain such a public nuisance by keeping,
storing, placing or allowing these items to remain in open view. The owners or
occupants of any such lot or parcel of land or other person maintaining or
permitting any such nuisance, shall jointly and severally be responsible for
the abatement of said nuisance by prompt removal of the offending object into
completely enclosed buildings within the territorial limits of the city or to a
location outside the territorial limits of the city.
(1997 Code, § 92.17)
§ 92.23 EXCEPTIONS AND EXEMPTIONS.
   The following items are exempted from compliance with the provisions of §§
92.21 and
92.22 of this chapter:
   (A)   Any motor vehicle or appliance in an enclosed building;
   (B)   Any motor vehicle or appliance on the premises of a business
enterprise operating in a lawful manner and having obtained the requisite
occupational license under
Chapter 110 of this code of ordinances to engage in its business; provided:
      (1)   The vehicle or appliance is necessary to the operation of an
enterprise dealing in motor vehicles or appliances, so long as no more than 12
junk vehicles or appliances are present; or
      (2)   The enterprise is a motor vehicle or appliance junkyard which has
satisfied §
92.26 of this chapter. However, nothing in this section shall authorize the
maintenance of a public or private nuisance as defined under other provisions
of law.
   (C)   Any vehicle or appliance in a designated depository maintained in a
lawful place and manner by the city.
(1997 Code, § 92.18)
§ 92.24 AUTHORITY OF POLICE DEPARTMENT.
   The Chief of Police or his or her subordinates within the Police Department
are granted the authority as enforcement officers hereunder, to enter upon
private or public property to examine, obtain information as to the identity
and owner of, and remove or cause removal, transport, or store, a junked motor
vehicle or junked appliance declared to be a public nuisance pursuant to this
subchapter.
(1997 Code, § 92.19)
§ 92.25 NOTICE.
   (A)   Whenever it is deemed that a public nuisance exists, notice to the
parties as required in division (B) shall be issued. The notice shall:
      (1)   Be in writing;
      (2)   Specify the public nuisance and its location;
      (3)   Order the public nuisance to be abated; and
      (4)   Advise that party that he has five days from the date of service of
the notice to abate the nuisance or to make a written demand for a hearing
before the governing body of the city, or the public nuisance will be removed
and abated by the city.
   (B)   For public nuisances on private property, notice shall be by certified
mail, return receipt requested, or by personal service, to the owner of the
premises, and, if the owner is not the occupant thereof, to the occupant. If
receipt of notice shall be personally refused, notice shall be served by
attachment to the offending objects, or to any one offending object within 100
feet of others, and at a conspicuous place at the entrance of the premises. If
the nuisance is a junked motor vehicle, the notice shall also issue to the last
identifiable owner of same, if not the owner or occupant of the premises. If
the junked motor vehicle is on public property, notice to the vehicle owner
only is required. If the vehicle owner is reasonably undeterminable in the case
of a nuisance on either public or private property, notice to him shall be
given by attaching the notice to a vehicle no less than five days before action
is to be taken. Where a junked appliance is found on public property no notice
shall be required.
(1997 Code, § 92.20)
§ 92.26 IMPLIED CONSENT.
   The owner of any motor vehicle or parts thereof or appliance which is stored
in violation of this subchapter, shall be deemed to have given his consent to
removal and disposition of same as hereinafter provided.
(1997 Code, § 92.21)
§ 92.27 REMOVAL AND DISPOSITION.
   Upon failure either to timely abate the nuisance or demand a hearing, as
hereinabove provided, the city is authorized, empowered, and directed to remove
and dispose of it. Any person designated by the city to remove, transport, or
store any junked motor vehicle or junked appliance, or the city if it does so,
shall have a lien against same for the reasonable charges for the towing,
transporting, or storing and the person or the city may sell the vehicle or
appliance for the charges if the same have not been paid during the impoundment
period. The sale shall be advertised in accordance with KRS Chapter 424 and
notice thereof shall be sent by certified return receipt mail to the owner of
the junked motor vehicle or junked appliance and to any other person known to
have any interest therein, addressed to the persons at their last known
addresses at least ten days before the sale is held. However, all requirements
of KRS Chapter 376 regarding notice and sale for towing and storing charges
shall be satisfied, and the city shall not be liable to any person towing or
storing junked motor vehicles or appliances. Any excess proceeds of sale shall
be paid to or held for the benefit of the owner of the property sold and any
other person known to have an interest therein.
(1997 Code, § 92.22)
Statutory reference:
   Legal notices, see KRS Chapter 424
   Statutory liens, see KRS Chapter 376
§ 92.28 RISK OF LOSS.
   (A)   The owner of any junked motor vehicle or junked appliance removed and
disposed of pursuant to this subchapter shall be solely liable for any loss or
damage to the vehicle or appliance while being removed or as a result of any
subsequent sale or other disposition.
   (B)   However, the person removing such vehicle or appliance shall exercise
ordinary care to prevent damage and loss thereto during transportation and
during the impoundment period.
(1997 Code, § 92.23)
§ 92.29 RECLAMATION.
   The owner of any interest in any junked motor vehicle or appliance which has
been removed, transported, or stored pursuant to this subchapter may, prior to
the sale thereof, present sufficient proof of ownership thereof or security
interest therein to the city, and the city shall order the release of the
vehicle or appliance to the person upon payment of all charges and expenses of
removal, transportation, storage and sale.
(1997 Code, § 92.24)
§ 92.30 REMOVAL OF NUISANCE BEFORE CITY REMOVAL.
   Removal of any junked motor vehicle or appliance prior to time for city
removal shall be considered compliance with the provisions of this subchapter.
(1997 Code, § 92.25)
§ 92.31 JUNKYARDS TO HAVE SUITABLE SCREEN.
   Any motor vehicle or appliance junkyard, auto lot, body shop or the like
located within the corporate limits of the city shall be screened from view
from ground level by a fence, shrubs, trees, other natural foliage or by
natural topography, no less than eight feet in height. The person acting as
operator of the motor vehicle or appliance junkyard, auto lot, body shop, or
the like shall be responsible for the erection and maintenance of the screen
required herein.
(1997 Code, § 92.26)
§ 92.32 VIOLATION PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to continue and maintain a public
nuisance as described herein, and in addition to the civil remedies provided by
this chapter such person shall be punished as provided in §
92.99 of this chapter.
(1997 Code, § 92.27) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.33 VIOLATIONS; ENFORCEMENT SYSTEM.
   (A)   In arriving at realistic penalties for violations of provisions
contained in this chapter, the primary objective has been to establish them as
part of the simplest possible enforcement system.
   (B)   The system has three features:
      (1)   A mail-in ticket which:
         (a)   Identifies the violator;
         (b)   Lists and identifies violations of the ordinance provisions by
section numbers;
         (c)   States the prescribed fine beside each violation listed;
         (d)   Provides simple instructions on where the ticket is to be mailed
with a check or money order in the amount of the stipulated fine; and
         (e)   States a simple procedure to follow if the violator elects to
appear in court to plead his case rather than mail in the fine.
      (2)   Use of the above ticket by all department and city personnel
authorized to enforce this section.
      (3)   Use for particularly flagrant violations (those nuisances which are
dangerous or unhealthful or which are detrimental to the health, safety and
welfare of the citizens and visitors of the city). This would be in the form of
a direct summons to court, with penalty range substantially above those on the
mail-in ticket.
(1997 Code, § 92.98) (Ord. 1988-21, passed 7-11-1988; Ord. 1991-7, passed 6-24-
1991; Ord. 6-1-92, passed 7-14-1992)
§ 92.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter, for which no specific
penalty is prescribed, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be fined not
more than $500 for each offense. Each day’s continued violation shall
constitute a separate offense.
   (B)   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter shall for which
no penalty is otherwise provided shall be guilty of a violation and shall be
subject to a fine not to exceed $250.
      (1)   Whoever violates any of the provisions of §§
92.02 or
92.03 of this chapter shall be guilty of a violation and shall be punished by a
fine of $25 for the first offense, and $50 for the second offense and $75 for
each subsequent offense.
      (2)   The fine provided in division (B)(1) above shall be double if not
paid within five business days after the issuance of a citation. If the fine is
not paid within ten business days after the issuance of a citation, the
violator may be cited to appear before the county’s District Court and all
court costs shall be borne by the violator in addition to any fine imposed by
the court.
      (3)   Any person found guilty of violating any provision of §§
92.02 or
92.03 of this chapter in District Court shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and
shall be fined not less than $50, nor more than $500, for each offense. Each
day that a violation continues shall constitute a separate offense.
(1997 Code, § 92.99) (Ord. 1988-21, passed 7-11-1988; Ord. 1991-7, passed 6-24-
1991; Ord. 6-1-92, passed 7-14-1992)
CHAPTER 93: FIREWORKS; FIRE PREVENTION
Section
Fireworks
   
93.01   Definitions; legality of items
   
93.02   Sale or use prohibited; exception for public display
   
93.03   Consumer fireworks; restrictions on sale
   
93.04   Bond or liability insurance requirement
   
93.05   Exempted sales and uses
   
93.06   Destruction of fireworks
Fire Prevention
   
93.20   Blasting permit
   
93.21   Storage of flammables and other matter
   
93.22   Standards of fire safety
 
   
93.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Use of fireworks restricted, see §
97.04
FIREWORKS
§ 93.01 DEFINITIONS; LEGALITY OF ITEMS.
   (A)   As used in KRS 227.700 to 227.750, FIREWORKS means any composition or
device for the purpose of producing a visible or an audible effect by
combustion, deflagration or detonation, and which meets the definition of
“consumer fireworks” as defined in division (B) below or “display” fireworks as
defined in division (D) below and as set forth in the U.S. Department of
Transportation’s (DOT) hazardous materials regulations. FIREWORKS does not
include:
      (1)   Exception number one. Toy pistols, toy canes, toy guns or other
devices in which paper or plastic caps manufactured in accordance with DOT
regulations, and packed and shipped according to those regulations, are not
considered to be FIREWORKS and shall be allowed to be used and sold at all
times;
      (2)   Exception number two. Model rockets and model rocket motors
designed, sold and used for the purpose of propelling recoverable aero models
are not considered to be FIREWORKS; and
      (3)   Exception number three. Propelling or expelling charges consisting
of a mixture of sulfur, charcoal and saltpeter are not considered as being
designed for producing audible effects.
(KRS 227.700)
   (B)   As used in KRS 227.700 to 227.750, CONSUMER FIREWORKS means fireworks
that are suitable for use by the public, designed primarily to produce visible
effects by combustion, and that comply with the construction, chemical
composition and labeling regulations of the U.S. Consumer Product Safety
Commission. The types, sizes and amount of pyrotechnic contents of these
devices are limited as enumerated in this section. Some small devices designed
to produce audible effects are included, such as whistling devices, ground
devices containing 50 milligrams or less of explosive composition and aerial
devices containing 130 milligrams or less of explosive composition. CONSUMER
FIREWORKS are further defined by the Consumer Product Safety Commission in
CPSC, 16 C.F.R. parts 1500 and 1507, are classified as Division 1.4G Class C
explosives by the U.S. Department of Transportation and include the following:
      (1)   Ground and hand-held sparkling devices.
         (a)   Dipped stick-sparkler or wire sparkler. These devices consist of
a metal wire or wood dowel that has been coated with pyrotechnic composition.
Upon ignition of the tip of the device, a shower of sparks is produced.
Sparklers may contain up to 100 grams of pyrotechnic composition per item.
Those devices containing any perchlorate or chlorate salts may not exceed five
grams of pyrotechnic composition per item. Wire sparklers which contain no
magnesium and which contain less than 100 grams of composition per item are not
included in this category, in accordance with DOT regulations;
         (b)   Cylindrical fountain. Cylindrical tube containing not more than
75 grams of pyrotechnic composition. Upon ignition, a shower of colored sparks,
and sometimes a whistling effect or smoke, is produced. This device may be
provided with a spike for insertion into the ground (spike fountain), a wood or
plastic base for placing on the ground (base fountain), or a wood or cardboard
handle, if intended to be hand-held (handle fountain). When more than one tube
is mounted on a common base, total pyrotechnic composition may not exceed 200
grams, or 500 grams if the tubes are separated from each other on the base by a
distance of at least one-half inch;
         (c)   Cone fountain. Cardboard or heavy paper cone containing up to 50
grams of pyrotechnic composition. The effect is the same as that of a
cylindrical fountain. When more than one cone is mounted on a common base, the
total pyrotechnic composition may not exceed 200 grams, or 500 grams if the
tubes are separated from each other on the base by a distance of at least one-
half inch;
         (d)   Illuminating torch. Cylindrical tube containing up to 100 grams
of pyrotechnic composition. Upon ignition, colored fire is produced. May be
spike, base or hand-held. When more than one tube is mounted on a common base,
total pyrotechnic composition may not exceed 200 grams or 500 grams if the
tubes are separated from each other on the base by a distance of at least one-
half inch;
         (e)   Wheel. A device attached to a post or tree by means of a nail or
string. A wheel may have one or more drivers, each of which may contain not
more than 60 grams of pyrotechnic composition. No wheel may contain more than
200 grams total pyrotechnic composition. Upon ignition, the wheel revolves,
producing a shower of color and sparks and, sometimes, a whistling effect;
         (f)   Ground spinner. Small device containing not more than 20 grams
of pyrotechnic composition, similar in operation to a wheel but intended to be
placed on the ground and ignited. A shower of sparks and color is produced by
the rapidly spinning device;
         (g)   Flitter sparkler. Narrow paper tube attached to a stick or wire
and filled with not more than 100 grams of pyrotechnic composition that
produces color and sparks upon ignition. The paper at one end of the tube is
ignited to make the device function; and
         (h)   Toy smoke device. Small plastic or paper item containing not
more than 100 grams of pyrotechnic composition that, upon ignition, produces
white or colored smoke as the primary effect.
      (2)   Aerial devices.
         (a)   Sky rockets and bottle rockets. Cylindrical tube containing not
more than 20 grams of pyrotechnic composition. Sky rockets contain a wooden
stick for guidance and stability and rise into the air upon ignition. A burst
of color or noise or both is produced at the height of flight;
         (b)   Missile-type rocket. A device similar to a sky rocket in size,
composition and effect that uses fins rather than a stick for guidance and
stability;
         (c)   Helicopter, aerial spinner. A tube containing up to 20 grams of
pyrotechnic composition. A propeller or blade is attached which, upon ignition,
lifts the rapidly spinning device into the air. A visible or audible effect is
produced at the height of flight;
         (d)   Roman candles. Heavy paper or cardboard tube containing up to 20
grams of pyrotechnic composition. Upon ignition, up to ten stars (pellets of
pressed pyrotechnic composition that burn with bright color) are individually
expelled at several-second intervals;
         (e)   Mine, shell. Heavy cardboard or paper tube usually attached to a
wood or plastic base and containing up to 60 grams of total chemical
composition (lift charge, burst charge, and visible or audible effect
composition). Upon ignition, “stars”, components producing reports containing
up to 130 milligrams of explosive composition per report, or other devices are
propelled into the air. The term MINE refers to a device with no internal
components containing a bursting charge, and the term SHELL refers to a device
that propels a component that subsequently bursts open in the air. A mine or
shell device may contain more than one tube; provided, the tubes fire in
sequence upon ignition of one external fuse. The term CAKE refers to a dense-
packed collection of mine or shell tubes. Total chemical composition including
lift charges of any multiple tube devices may not exceed 200 grams. The maximum
quantity of lift charge in any one tube of a mine or shell device shall not
exceed 20 grams, and the maximum quantity of break or bursting charge in any
component shall not exceed 25% of the total weight of chemical composition in
the component. The tube remains on the ground; and
         (f)   Aerial shell kit, reloadable tube. A package kit containing a
cardboard, high-density polyethylene (HDPE), or equivalent launching tube with
multiple-shot aerial shells. Each aerial shell is limited to a maximum of 60
grams of total chemical composition (lift charge, burst charge and visible or
audible effect composition), and the maximum diameter of each shell shall not
exceed one and three-quarter inches. In addition, the maximum quantity of lift
charge in any shell shall not exceed 20 grams, and the maximum quantity of
break or bursting charge in any shell shall not exceed 25% of the total weight
of chemical composition in the shell. The total chemical composition of all the
shells in a kit, including lift charge, shall not exceed 400 grams. The user
lowers a shell into the launching tube, at the time of firing, with the fuse
extending out of the top of the tube. After the firing, the tube is then
reloaded with another shell for the next firing. All launching tubes shall be
capable of firing twice the number of shells in the kit without failure of the
tube. Each package of multiple-shot aerial shells must comply with all warning
label requirements of the Consumer Product Safety Commission.
      (3)   Audible ground devices.
         (a)   Firecrackers, salutes. Small paper-wrapped or cardboard tube
containing not more than 50 milligrams of pyrotechnic composition. Those used
in aerial devices may contain not more than 130 milligrams of explosive
composition per report. Upon ignition, noise and a flash of light is produced;
and
         (b)   Chaser. Small paper or cardboard tube that travels along the
ground upon ignition. A whistling effect, or other noise, is often produced.
The explosive composition used to create the noise may not exceed 50
milligrams.
(KRS 227.702)
   (C)   Items listed below are classified as NOVELTIES and TRICK NOISEMAKERS
and are not classified as common fireworks by the U.S. Department of
Transportation, and their transportation, storage, retail sale, possession,
sale and use shall be allowed throughout the state at all times.
      (1)   Snake, glow worm. Pressed pellet of pyrotechnic composition that
produces a large, snake-like ash upon burning. The ash expands in length as the
pellet burns. These devices may not contain mercuric thiocyanate;
      (2)   Smoke device. Tube or sphere containing pyrotechnic composition
that, upon ignition, produces white or colored smoke as the primary effect;
      (3)   Wire sparkler. Wire coated with pyrotechnic composition that
produces a shower of sparks upon ignition. These items may not contain
magnesium and must not exceed 100 grams of composition per item. Devices
containing any chlorate or perchlorate salts may not exceed five grams of
composition per item; and
      (4)   Trick noisemaker. Item that produces a small report intended to
surprise the user. These devices include:
         (a)   Party popper. Small plastic or paper item containing not more
than 16 milligrams of explosive composition that is friction sensitive. A
string protruding from the device is pulled to ignite it, expelling paper
streamers and producing a small report;
         (b)   Booby trap. Small tube with string protruding from both ends,
similar to a party popper in design. The ends of the string are pulled to
ignite the friction sensitive composition, producing a small report;
         (c)   Snapper. Small, paper-wrapped item containing a minute quantity
of explosive composition coated on small bits of sand. When dropped, the device
explodes, producing a small report;
         (d)   Trick match. Kitchen or book match that has been coated with a
small quantity of explosive or pyrotechnic composition. Upon ignition of the
match, a small report or a shower of sparks is produced;
         (e)   Cigarette load. Small wooden peg that has been coated with a
small quantity of explosive composition. Upon ignition of a cigarette
containing one of the pegs, a small report is produced; and
         (f)   Auto burglar alarm. Tube which contains pyrotechnic composition
that produces a loud whistle or smoke, or both, when ignited. A small quantity
of explosive, not exceeding 50 milligrams, may also be used to produce a small
report. A squib is used to ignite the device.
(KRS 227.704)
   (D)   As used in KRS 227.700 to 227.750, DISPLAY FIREWORKS means pyrotechnic
devices or large fireworks designed primarily to produce visible or audible
effects by combustion, deflagration, or detonation. This term includes, but is
not limited to, firecrackers containing more than two grains (130 milligrams)
of explosive composition, aerial shells containing more than 40 grams of
pyrotechnic composition, and other display pieces which exceed the limits for
classification as consumer fireworks. DISPLAY FIREWORKS are defined by the
Consumer Product Safety Commission in CPSC, 16 C.F.R. parts 1500 and 1507, and
are classified as Class B explosives by the U.S. Department of Transportation.
(KRS 227.706)
   (E)   Legality of items is as follows:
      (1)   Items described in division (B) above are legal for retail sale,
provided all applicable federal and state requirements with respect thereto are
met.
      (2)   Items described in division (D) above are not legal for retail
sale, but are legal under permits granted pursuant to this chapter for the
purposes specified in this chapter for public displays and may be sold at
wholesale as provided in this chapter.
      (3)   Items described in division (C) above are legal for retail sale;
provided, all applicable federal and state requirements with respect thereto
are met.
(KRS 227.708)
(1997 Code, § 93.01)
§ 93.02 SALE OR USE PROHIBITED; EXCEPTION FOR PUBLIC DISPLAY.
   No person, firm, copartnership or corporation shall offer for sale, expose
for sale, sell at retail or keep with intent to sell, possess, use or explode
any display fireworks, except as follows:
   (A)   The Chief of the Fire Department or other authorized city official may
grant permits for supervised public displays of fireworks by the city, fair
associations, amusement parks, and other organizations or groups of
individuals. Every display shall be handled by a competent display operator to
be approved by the public official by whom the permit is granted, and shall be
of a character, and so located, discharged, or fired as in the opinion of the
official, after proper inspection, to not be hazardous to property or endanger
any person. COMPETENT DISPLAY OPERATOR shall be defined as the person with
overall responsibility for the operation and safety of a fireworks display. The
competent display operator shall have a Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms,
and Explosives (ATF) License and have participated as an assistant in firing at
least five public displays. A COMPETENT DISPLAY OPERATOR is also an employee
possessor. A permit under this division (A) shall be issued only to a competent
display operator holding an ATF license. At least one competent display
operator shall be on site during display set-up and firing. This competent
display operator shall maintain a copy of the permit application, as signed by
the local authority having jurisdiction as identified in this section, on site
and at all times the display is in place, and shall be presented on demand of
the State Fire Marshal or local Fire Chief. All public displays that require
issuance of a permit shall be conducted in accordance with the provisions of
National Fire Protection Association (NFPA) 1123 – Code for Fireworks Display
(adopted edition). Permits shall be filed with the State Fire Marshal at least
15 days in advance of the date of the display. After the privilege is granted,
sales, possession, use and distribution of fireworks for the display shall be
lawful for that purpose only. No permit granted under this division shall be
transferable. For the purposes of this division (A), PUBLIC DISPLAY OF
FIREWORKS shall include the use of pyrotechnic devices or pyrotechnic materials
before a proximate audience, whether indoors or outdoors. Any person remaining
within the display area shall be identified as licensed by the ATF, or an
employee thereof, or be an assistant in training to become a competent display
operator. All persons remaining within the display area shall be at least 18
years of age. The Commissioner of the Department of Housing, Buildings and
Construction with recommendation from the State Fire Marshal shall promulgate
administrative regulations in accordance with KRS Chapter 13A to administer the
provisions of this division (A). The regulations shall address the process by
which permits are issued and any other procedures that are reasonably necessary
to effectuate this division (A);
   (B)   The sale, at wholesale, of any display fireworks for permitted
displays by any resident manufacturer, wholesaler, dealer or jobber, in
accordance with regulations of the U.S. Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms
and Explosives if the sale is to the person holding a display permit as
outlined in division (A) above. The permit holder shall present the permit
along with other verifiable identification at the time of sale;
   (C)   The sale of display fireworks in accordance with a license issued by
the United States Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives;
   (D)   The sale and use in emergency situations of pyrotechnic signaling
devices and distress signals for marine, aviation and highway use;
   (E)   The use of fuses and railway torpedoes by railroads;
   (F)   The sale and use of blank cartridges for use in a show or theater or
for signal or ceremonial purpose in athletics or sports;
   (G)   The use of any pyrotechnic device by military organizations;
   (H)   The use of fireworks for agricultural purposes under the direct
supervision of the U.S. Department of the Interior or any equivalent or local
agency; and
   (I)   Nothing in this section shall prohibit a person, firm, co-partnership,
non-profit or corporation from offering for sale, exposing for sale, selling at
retail, keeping with intent to sell, possessing or using consumer fireworks as
defined in KRS 227.702 and as permitted pursuant to KRS 227.715.
(KRS 227.710) (1997 Code, § 93.02) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.03 CONSUMER FIREWORKS; RESTRICTIONS ON SALE.
   Except as provided in §
93.02 of this chapter, the consumer fireworks described in §
93.01(B) of this chapter may be offered for sale, sold at retail or kept with
the intent to sell, only if the following requirements are met:
   (A)   Any person, firm, co-partnership, non-profit, or business intending to
sell consumer fireworks described in §
93.01(B) of this chapter shall register annually with the state’s Fire Marshal,
who may assess a fee of no more than $25 for each site at which fireworks shall
be sold. The registration requirement under this division (A) shall not apply
to permanent business establishments which are open year round and in which the
sale of fireworks is ancillary to the primary course of business. Each location
shall be required to charge sales tax at the current rate imposed on retailers
in KRS 139.200;
   (B)   Permanent business establishments open year-round and in which the
sale of consumer fireworks is ancillary to the primary course of business shall
only be permitted to sell those consumer fireworks described in §
93.01(B) of this chapter, or shall meet the criteria for “seasonal retailer”
described in division (C) below;
   (C)   SEASONAL RETAILERS shall be defined as any person, firm, co-
partnership, non-profit or corporation intending to sell “consumer fireworks”
between June 10 and July 7, or December 26 and January 4 of each year or both,
and shall include permanent businesses, temporary businesses, stores, stands or
tents. A seasonal retailer shall register with the state’s Fire Marshal, who
may assess a fee of no more than $250 for each site at which fireworks shall be
sold. Each location shall be required to charge sales tax at the current rate
imposed on retailers in KRS 139.200;
   (D)   Any person, firm, co-partnership, non-profit or corporation intending
to sell consumer fireworks, as defined in §
93.01(B) of this chapter as the primary source of business, that is not a
seasonal retailer as defined in division (C) above, shall register with the
state’s Fire Marshal, who may assess a fee of no more than $500 for each site
at which fireworks will be sold. Each location shall be required to charge
sales tax at the current rate imposed on retailers in KRS 139.200;
   (E)   The annual registration required by this section shall be received by
the state’s Fire Marshal at least 15 days prior to offering fireworks for sale
at the site for which the registration is intended. Evidence that a sales and
use tax permit has been obtained from the Department of Revenue shall be
presented to the state’s Fire Marshal as a condition of registration. If the
registration is received less than 15 days prior to offering fireworks for sale
at the site for which registration is intended, an additional assessment of
$100 shall be added to the initial fee;
   (F)   Each site at which fireworks are offered for sale shall have its
registration certificate displayed in a conspicuous location at the site;
   (G)   Each site at which fireworks are offered for sale shall comply with
all applicable provisions of the International Building Code, with Kentucky
Amendments (adopted edition), and NFPA 1124 (National Fire Protection
Association) – Code for the Manufacture, Transportation, Storage and Retail
Sales of Fireworks and Pyrotechnic Articles (adopted edition);
   (H)   No person or business shall give, offer for sale or sell any consumer
fireworks listed in §
93.01(B) of this chapter to any person under 18 years of age;
   (I)   No person under 18 years of age may be employed by a fireworks
distribution facility or manufacturing facility. No person under 18 years of
age shall sell consumer fireworks at a consumer fireworks retail sales facility
registered under this section unless the individual is supervised by a parent
or guardian;
   (J)   The state’s Fire Marshal may revoke the registration of any site which
is in violation of a requirement of this section, or any other requirement
provided pursuant to this chapter. If the violation renders any property
especially susceptible to fire loss, and there is present such hazard to human
life or limb that the public safety imperatively requires emergency action, the
state’s Fire Marshal may take that action, as provided in KRS 227.330(6); and
   (K)   A person lawfully possessing consumer fireworks, as defined in §
93.01(B) of this chapter may use those items if:
      (1)   He or she is at least 18 years of age;
      (2)   Fireworks are not ignited within 200 feet of any structure, vehicle
or any other person; and
      (3)   Use of the fireworks does not place him or her in violation of any
lawfully enacted local ordinance.
(KRS 227.715) (1997 Code, § 93.03) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.04 BOND OR LIABILITY INSURANCE REQUIREMENT.
   No permit shall be issued under §
93.02 of this chapter unless the applicant shall give bond or evidence of
liability insurance deemed adequate by the official to whom application for the
permit is made, in a sum not less than $1,000,000. However, the appropriate
city official or the state’s Fire Marshal may require a larger amount if, in
his or her judgment, the situation requires it, conditioned for the payment of
all damages which may be caused thereby either to a person or to property by
reason of the permitted display, and arising from any acts of the licensee, his
or her agents, employees or subcontractors.
(KRS 227.720) (1997 Code, § 93.04) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.05 EXEMPTED SALES AND USES.
   Nothing in this chapter shall prevent the retail sale and use of explosives
or signaling flares used in the course of ordinary business or industry; gold
star producing sparklers, which contain no magnesium or chlorate; toy snakes
which contain no mercury; smoke novelties and party novelties, which contain
less than twenty-five hundredths grain of explosive mixture; shells or
cartridges, used as ammunition in firearms; blank cartridges for a show or
theater, or for signal or ceremonial purposes in athletics or sports, or for
use by military organizations; or the sale of any kind of fireworks; provided,
the same are to be shipped by the seller directly out of the state.
(KRS 227.730) (1997 Code, § 93.05)
§ 93.06 DESTRUCTION OF FIREWORKS.
   (A)   The state’s Fire Marshal, or any fire department having jurisdiction
which has been deputized to act on behalf of the state’s Fire Marshal, shall
cause to be removed at the expense of the owner all stocks of fireworks which
are stored and held in violation of this chapter. After a period of 60 days,
the seized fireworks may be offered for sale by closed bid to a properly
certified fireworks wholesaler.
   (B)   After a period of 60 days, the seized fireworks may be offered for
sale by closed bid to a properly certified manufacturer, distributor or
wholesaler. All seized fireworks or explosives with a Class 1.3G or “Display”
designation shall require the notification of the United States Bureau of
Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives. The state’s Fire Marshal shall
provide the owner or possessor a receipt containing the complete inventory of
any fireworks seized within five business days of the seizure.
   (C)   Before any seized fireworks may be disposed of:
      (1)   If the owner of the seized fireworks is known to the state’s Fire
Marshal, the state’s Fire Marshal shall give notice by registered mail or
personal service to the owner of the State Fire Marshal’s intention to dispose
of the fireworks. The notice shall inform the owner of the State Fire Marshal’s
intent. The state’s Fire Marshal shall conduct an administrative hearing in
accordance with KRS Chapter 13B concerning the disposal of fireworks; or
      (2)   If the identity of the owner of any seized fireworks is not known
to the state’s Fire Marshal, the state’s Fire Marshal shall cause to be
published, in a newspaper of general circulation in the county in which the
seizure was made, notice of the seizure and of the State Fire Marshal’s
intention to dispose of the fireworks. The notice shall be published once each
week for three consecutive weeks. If no person claims ownership of the
fireworks within ten days of the date of the last publication, the state’s Fire
Marshal may proceed with disposal of the fireworks. If the owner does claim the
fireworks within ten days of the date of the last publication, a hearing as set
out in division (C)(1) above shall be held.
   (D)   Nothing in KRS 227.700 to 227.750 shall restrict a local government
from enacting ordinances that affect the sale or use of fireworks within its
jurisdiction.
(KRS 227.750) (1997 Code, § 93.06)
FIRE PREVENTION
§ 93.20 BLASTING PERMIT.
   No person shall cause a blast to occur within the city without making
application in writing beforehand, setting forth the exact nature of the
intended operation, and receiving a permit to blast from the authorized city
official. The authorized city official, before granting the permit, may require
the applicant to provide a bond to indemnify the city and all other persons
against injury or damages which might result from the proposed blasting.
(1997 Code, § 93.20) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.21 STORAGE OF FLAMMABLES AND OTHER MATTER.
   (A)   All flammable or combustible materials shall be arranged and stored in
a manner which affords reasonable safety against the danger of fire.
   (B)   Waste paper, ashes, oil rags, waste rags, excelsior or any material of
a similar hazardous nature shall not be accumulated in any cellar or any other
portion of any building of any kind. Proper fire-proof receptacles shall be
provided for these hazardous materials.
   (C)   No matter shall be stored or arranged in a manner which impedes or
prevents access to or exit from any premises in case of fire.
(1997 Code, § 93.21) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.22 STANDARDS OF FIRE SAFETY.
   (A)   The city hereby adopts and incorporates herein by reference all
standards of fire safety set forth in 815 KAR 10:060.
   (B)   The city hereby designates the Chief of the city’s Volunteer Fire
Department to operate fire inspection programs pursuant to KRS 227.320 and
farther ordains that the Chief of the city’s Volunteer Fire Department shall
have primary jurisdiction for the enforcement of all property within the
boundary of the city, except as provided in subparagraph (a)2 of 815 KAR 10:
060.
(Ord. 5-1-13, passed 6-5-2013)
§ 93.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is provided shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be
fined not more than $500.
   (B)   Any person violating the provisions of §§
93.02 or
93.03, the regulations issued thereunder or any order issued thereunder, or who
knowingly induces another, directly or indirectly, to violate the provisions of
those sections, shall be fined not more than $1,000, or imprisoned for not more
than 30 days, or both.
(KRS 227.990(4)) (1997 Code, § 93.99)
CHAPTER 94: LITTERING
Section
   
94.01   Throwing litter from vehicle
   
94.02   Tracking foreign matter on streets
   
94.03   Hauling loose material
   
94.04   Sweeping litter into gutters
   
94.05   Litter on private property
 
   
94.99   Penalty
§ 94.01 THROWING LITTER FROM VEHICLE.
   No person while a driver or passenger in a vehicle shall throw or deposit
litter upon any street or other public place within the city or upon private
property.
(1997 Code, § 94.01) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.02 TRACKING FOREIGN MATTER ON STREETS.
   No person shall drive or move any vehicle or truck within the city, the
wheels or tires of which carry onto or deposit upon any street, alley or other
public place mud, dirt, sticky substances, litter or foreign matter of any
kind.
(1997 Code, § 94.02) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.03 HAULING LOOSE MATERIAL.
   Every person hauling or causing to be hauled dirt, sand, gravel, cement,
fill dirt or loose material of any kind in or upon any street, alley, sidewalk
or other public place shall haul it or cause it to be hauled in vehicles
provided with tight boxes or beds so constructed or loaded as to prevent any of
the contents from falling or being thrown, blown or deposited upon any street,
alley, sidewalk or other public place. Any materials which fall from or which
are thrown, blown or deposited from any vehicle upon any street, alley,
sidewalk or other public place shall be removed immediately by the person in
charge of the vehicle.
(1997 Code, § 94.03) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.04 SWEEPING LITTER INTO GUTTERS.
   No person shall sweep into or deposit in any gutter, street or other public
place within the city the accumulation of litter from any building or lot or
from any public or private sidewalk or driveway. Persons owning or occupying
property shall keep the sidewalk in front of their premises free of litter.
(1997 Code, § 94.04) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.05 LITTER ON PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   (A)   No person shall throw or deposit litter on any occupied private
property within the city, whether owned by that person or not; except that, the
owner or person in control of private property may maintain authorized private
receptacles for collection in such a manner that litter will be prevented from
being carried or deposited by the elements upon streets, sidewalks or other
public places, or upon any private property.
   (B)   No person shall throw or deposit litter on any open or vacant private
property within the city, whether owned by that person or not.
(1997 Code, § 94.05) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any of the provisions of this chapter shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and shall be fined not more than $500. Each day the violation is
committed or permitted to continue shall constitute a separate offense.
(1997 Code, § 94.99)
CHAPTER 95: PARKS AND RECREATION
Section
Park and Playground Use
   
95.01   Playground and ballfield user fee
   
95.02   Care of facilities by users
   
95.03   Prohibited acts
   
95.04   Park traffic
   
95.05   Animal regulations
   
95.06   Peddling in parks
   
95.07   Alcoholic beverages
   
95.08   Signs
   
95.09   Exemption
Administration and Enforcement
   
95.20   Playground and Park Supervisor
   
95.21   Parks and Playgrounds Committee
   
95.22   Reward for information concerning violator
 
   
95.99   Penalty
PARK AND PLAYGROUND USE
§ 95.01 PLAYGROUND AND BALLFIELD USER FEE.
   (A)   All teams, groups or individuals which are composed primarily and
substantially of residents of the city and which desire to use the playground
or ballfield, shall have the use and enjoyment of the ballfield and playground
with no charge, upon obtaining prior approval of the Playground and Park
Supervisor as to the times and dates the playground and ballfield is available
for use.
   (B)   All teams, groups or individuals which are not, in the sole discretion
of the Playground and Park Supervisor, composed primarily and substantially of
residents of the city, shall only be entitled to the use and enjoyment of the
playground and ballfield upon payment of a $25 user fee and receiving therefor
a receipt from the Playground and Park Supervisor, upon which shall be stated
the date or dates and time such non-resident teams, groups or individuals shall
be permitted to use the facilities.
   (C)   All proceeds generated pursuant to division (B) above shall be payable
to and with the Playground and Park Supervisor for deposit to the city’s
General Fund, but used solely for maintenance and upkeep of the playground and
ballfield, for new playground equipment or supplies, in the discretion of
Council.
(1997 Code, § 95.01) (Ord. 4-3-82, passed 4-13-1982; Ord. 5-3-88, passed - -
1988)
§ 95.02 CARE OF FACILITIES BY USERS.
   Each person, firm or corporation using the public parks and grounds shall
clean up all debris, extinguish all fires when fires are permitted and leave
the premises in good order and the facilities in a neat and sanitary condition.
(1997 Code, § 95.02) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.03 PROHIBITED ACTS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation using such parks to
either perform or permit to be performed any of the following acts:
   (A)   Willfully mark, deface, disfigure, injure, tamper with, displace or
remove, any building, bridges, tables, benches, fireplaces, railings, paving or
paving material, waterlines or other public utilities or parts or appurtenances
thereof, signs, notices or placards, whether temporary or permanent, monuments,
stakes, posts or other boundary markers, or other structures of equipment,
facilities or park property or appurtenances whatsoever, either real or
personal;
   (B)   Throw, discharge or otherwise place or cause to be placed in the water
of any fountain, pond, lake, stream, bay or other body of water in or adjacent
to any park or any tributary, stream, storm sewer or drain flowing into such
waters, any substance, matter or thing, liquid or solid, which will or may
result in the pollution of the waters;
   (C)   Bring in or dump, deposit or leave any bottles, broken glass, ashes,
paper, boxes, cans, dirt, rubbish, waste, garbage, refuse or other trash. No
such refuse or trash shall be placed in any waters in or contiguous to any
park, or left anywhere on the grounds thereof, but shall be placed in the
proper receptacles where these are provided. Where receptacles are not so
provided, all such rubbish or waste shall be carried away from the park by the
person responsible for its presence, and properly disposed of elsewhere;
   (D)   Disturb the peace;
   (E)   Endanger the safety of any person by any conduct or act;
   (F)   Commit any assault, battery or engage in fighting;
   (G)   Carry, possess or drink any alcoholic beverage in any park;
   (H)   Violate any rule for the use of the park, made or approved by the City
Council; and
   (I)   Prevent any person from using any park, or any of its facilities, or
interfere with such use in compliance with this chapter and the rules
applicable to such use.
(1997 Code, § 95.03) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.04 PARK TRAFFIC.
   It shall be unlawful to drive or park any automobile, except on a street,
driveway or parking lot in any park; or to park or leave any such vehicle in
any place other than one established for public parking.
(1997 Code, § 95.04) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.05 ANIMAL REGULATIONS.
   It shall be unlawful to bring any dangerous animal into any park and it
shall be unlawful to permit any dog to be in any park unless the dog is on a
leash not more than six feet long.
(1997 Code, § 95.05) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.06 PEDDLING IN PARKS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person other than employees and officials of
the city, acting on behalf of the city, to vend, sell, peddle or offer for sale
any commodity or article within any park.
(1997 Code, § 95.06) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.07 ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person in any park in the city to have in his
or her possession, custody or control any alcoholic beverage of any kind
whatsoever.
(1997 Code, § 95.07) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.08 SIGNS.
   It shall be unlawful for anyone to paste, glue, tack or otherwise post any
sign, placard, advertisement or inscription whatever, nor shall any person
erect or cause to be erected any sign whatever on any public lands or highways
or roads adjacent to a park.
(1997 Code, § 95.08) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.09 EXEMPTION.
   The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to any properly authorized
government official in pursuant of any official duty.
(1997 Code, § 95.09)
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 95.20 PLAYGROUND AND PARK SUPERVISOR.
   (A)   The Mayor shall appoint a Playground and Park Supervisor with approval
of City Council to perform such duties as are established by this code or other
ordinances of the city. The Playground and Park Supervisor shall serve during
good behavior and satisfactory service. The compensation for this office shall
be set by appropriate ordinance of the City Council. The Mayor may remove the
Supervisor at will.
   (B)   The duties of the Playground Maintenance Worker shall be as follows:
      (1)   Keep the sidewalks free of snow and ice in winter. Do not let salt
stand on sidewalks after snow and ice are removed;
      (2)   Keep the lawn properly mowed and trimmed, at least once every two
weeks, once each week at times of heavy growth. After trimming, sweep and
dispose of grass trimmings;
      (3)   Maintain the city tractor and related equipment. This shall be
approved by the Chairperson of the Parks Committee;
      (4)   Install and remove swings, and the like, as required by the season;
and
      (5)   Report to the Parks Chairperson and/or the Mayor.
(1997 Code, § 95.20) (Ord. 6-1-99, passed 7-3-1999)
§ 95.21 PARKS AND PLAYGROUNDS COMMITTEE.
   The Parks and Playgrounds Committee established under §
33.18 of this code of ordinances shall advise Council concerning all matters
regarding the use of the city’s public parks and playgrounds.
(1997 Code, § 95.21)
§ 95.22 REWARD FOR INFORMATION CONCERNING VIOLATOR.
   Anyone who provides information leading to the arrest and conviction of
anyone violating this chapter shall be rewarded up to $50 from the City
Treasury, at the discretion of the City Council.
(1997 Code, § 95.22)
§ 95.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any of the provisions of this chapter shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and shall be fined not more than $500 or imprisoned for not more
than 90 days, or both. Each day the violation is committed or permitted to
continue shall constitute a separate offense.
(1997 Code, § 95.99)
CHAPTER 96: “911” EMERGENCY TELEPHONE SERVICES
Section
   
96.01   Establishment
   
96.02   Service charge
§ 96.01 ESTABLISHMENT.
   Pursuant to the authority of KRS 65.760, 911 emergency telephone services
are hereby established within the city.
(1997 Code, § 96.01) (Ord. 5-3-08, passed 6-4-2008)
§ 96.02 SERVICE CHARGE.
   Any and all landline telephone service providers including, but not limited
to, Cincinnati Bell, Insight Communications and Time Warner Communications,
submitting bills to customers within the city shall discontinue the collection
of emergency 911 fees within the city. All fees collected before 1-1-2013 shall
be promptly paid to the city in accordance with previous procedures.
(1997 Code, § 96.02) (Ord. 5-3-08, passed 6-4-2008; Ord. 11-1-12, passed 12-5-
2012)
CHAPTER 97: NOISE CONTROL
Section
   
97.01   Unlawful activity
   
97.02   Declaration of noise
   
97.03   Exemptions
   
97.04    Use of fireworks restricted
 
   
97.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Nuisances; Health and Sanitation, see
Chapter 92
§ 97.01 UNLAWFUL ACTIVITY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to make, continue or cause to be made or
continued any excessive, unnecessary or unusually loud noise or any noise which
either annoys, disturbs, injures or endangers the comfort, repose, health,
peace and safety of others, within the confines of the city.
(Ord. 10-1-11, passed 11-2-2011) Penalty, see §
97.99
§ 97.02 DECLARATION OF NOISE.
   The following acts, among others, are declared to be loud, disturbing and
unnecessary noises in violation of this chapter, but said enumeration shall not
be deemed to be exclusive, namely:
   (A)   Horn, signaling devices and the like. The sounding of any horn or
signaling device on any automobile, motorcycle or other vehicle on any street
or public place of the city, except as a danger warning; the creation by means
of any such signaling device of any unreasonably loud or harsh sound; and the
sounding of any such device for an unnecessary and unreasonable period of time;
   (B)   Radios, phonographs and the like. The using, operating or permitting
to be played, used or operated any radio, stereo, television, musical
instrument, phonograph or other machine or device for the producing or
reproducing of sound in such a manner as to disturb the peace, quiet and
comfort of the neighboring inhabitants or at any time with louder volume than
is necessary for convenient hearing for the person or persons who are in the
room, vehicle or chamber in which the machine or devise is operated and who are
voluntarily listeners thereto. The operation of any set, instrument,
phonograph, machine or device in a manner as to be plainly audible at a
distance of 50 feet from the location thereof shall be prima facie evidence of
a violation of this section. Amplified sound is permitted between 7:00 a.m. and
10:00 p.m., Sunday through Thursday, and 7:00 a.m. and 11:00 p. m., Friday and
Saturday. Unamplified sound that does not otherwise violate the provisions of
this section is permitted;
   (C)   Loud speakers, amplifiers for advertising. The using, operation or
permitting to be played, used or operated of any radio receiving set, musical
instrument, loudspeaker, sound amplifier or other machine or device for the
producing or reproducing of sound which is used upon the public streets for the
purpose of commercial advertising or attracting the attention of the public to
any building or structure;
   (D)   Yelling, shouting and the like. Yelling, shouting, hooting, whistling
or singing at any time or place so as to annoy or disturb the comfort or repose
of any persons in the vicinity;
   (E)   Animals, birds and the like. The keeping of any animal or bird which,
by causing frequent or long continued noise, shall disturb the comfort or
repose of any persons in the vicinity;
   (F)   Exhausts. The discharge into open air of the exhaust of any stationary
engine, motor boat, motorcycle or motor vehicle, except through a muffler or
other device which will effectively prevent loud or excessive noises therefrom.
Exhaust noise which is plainly audible at a distance of 100 feet from the
location thereof shall be prima facie evidence of a violation of this section;
   (G)   Defect in vehicle or load. The use of any automobile, motorcycle or
vehicle so out of repair, so loaded, or in a manner as to create loud and
unnecessary grating, grinding, rattling or other noise; and
   (H)   Schools, courts, churches, hospitals. The creation of any excessive
noise on any street adjacent to any school, institution of learning, church or
court while the same are in use, or adjacent to any hospital, which
unreasonably interferes with the workings of the institution, or which disturbs
or unduly annoys patients in the hospital; provided, conspicuous signs are
displayed in the street indicating that the same is a school, hospital or court
street.
(Ord. 10-1-11, passed 11-2-2011; Ord. 12-1-3, passed 1-9-2024) Penalty, see §
97.99
§ 97.03 EXEMPTIONS.
   The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to the following:
   (A)   The emission of sound for the purpose of alerting persons to the
existence of and emergency or for the performance of emergency work; or
   (B)   The discharge of firearms by members of the Police Department or other
sworn peace officers.
(Ord. 10-1-11, passed 11-2-2011)
§ 97.04 USE OF FIREWORKS RESTRICTED.
   (A)   Fireworks defined. As used in this section, FIREWORKS mean any
composition or device for the purpose of producing a visible or an audible
effect by combustion, deflagration, or detonation. FIREWORKS do not include:
      (1)   Exception number 1. Toy pistols, toy canes, toy guns, or other
devices in which paper or plastic cans manufactured in accordance with DOT
regulations, and packed and shipped according to those regulations, are not
considered to be fireworks and shall be allowed to be used and sold at all
times;
      (2)   Exception number 2. Model rockets and model rocket motors designed,
sold, and used for the purpose of propelling recoverable aero models are not
considered to be fireworks; and
      (3)   Exception number 3. Propelling or expelling charges consisting of a
mixture of sulfur, charcoal, and saltpeter are not considered as being designed
for producing audible effects.
   (B)   Use of fireworks restricted. It shall be unlawful for any person to
cause fireworks to be set off or to allow fireworks to be set off on property
in which that person has an interest either by ownership or rental between the
hours of 10:00 p.m. to 8:00 a.m., Sunday through Thursday, or between the hours
of 11:00 p.m. to 8:00 a.m, Friday and Saturday. New Year’s Eve and the Fourth
of July shall be exceptions to these restrictions, whereby fireworks shall be
allowed on July 4, between 8:00 a.m. and 11:00 p.m., and shall be allowed from
11:00 p.m. on December 31 through 12:30 a.m. on January 1.
(Ord. 12-1-3, passed 1-9-2024) Penalty, see §
97.99
§ 97.99 PENALTY.
   Each violation and every other failure to comply with the provisions of this
chapter shall be a misdemeanor and each day of the continuation thereof shall
be a separate and distinct offense for which:
   (A)   Any person convicted of violation of the provisions thereof in a court
of competent jurisdiction shall be sentenced to pay a criminal fine not to
exceed the maximum amount of $500, as set forth in KRS 534.040(2)(a), or a term
of imprisonment not to exceed the maximum period of 12 months, as set forth in
KRS 532.090(1), or both; and
   (B)   The offender shall be subject to a civil penalty of $100 for each
offense, which shall be recovered by the city in a civil action in the nature
of debt if not paid by the offender within 30 days after the citation of the
violation or other failure to comply with the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 10-1-11, passed 11-2-2011)
CHAPTER 98: PRIVATE SECURITY
Section
   
98.01   Definition
   
98.02   Notice
   
98.03   Exemptions
 
   
98.99   Penalty
§ 98.01 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definition shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PRIVATE SECURITY. Refers to companies or persons who are hired by non-
governmental entities to provide safety and protection of persons or property
in the city, including but not limited to prevention of theft, the preservation
of the peace and prevention of disorder, and control of the movement or parking
of motor vehicles on public or private property.
(Ord. 2-1-21, passed 3-3-2021)
§ 98.02 NOTICE.
   No person or entity shall hire or employ or otherwise obtain private
security in the city unless they first notify the city of Park Hills Police
Department or any future law enforcement agency retained by the city for law
enforcement at least 24 hours before acquiring such private security, such
notice to include as follows.
   (A)   If hiring a company whose employees are not licensed in the state as
law enforcement personnel, or hiring an individual who is not licensed in the
state as law enforcement personnel, notice of the name and telephone number of
such each such person or persons providing private security and the dates,
times and locations where such private security it to be provided, and a copy
of a criminal background check conducted by the Kentucky State Police no more
than 30 prior to the first date such individual is to provide private security.
   (B)   If hiring a person or persons licensed in the state as law enforcement
personnel, notice of the name and telephone number of each such person and the
name of the law enforcement agency in the state where each such person is
currently employed or was most recently employed in the state, and the dates,
times and locations where such private security is to be provided.
(Ord. 2-1-21, passed 3-3-2021) Penalty, see §
98.99
§ 98.03 EXEMPTIONS.
   This chapter shall not apply to funeral procession escorts.
(Ord. 2-1-21, passed 3-3-2021)
§ 98.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person or entity who violates the provisions of this chapter shall
be subject to a fine of between $25 and $100 for a first offense, and for each
subsequent offense a fine of between $250 and $500.
   (B)   In addition, violations of this chapter are deemed to be a civil
offense enforceable through the city’s Code Enforcement Board.
(Ord. 2-1-21, passed 3-3-2021)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   BUSINESS LICENSING AND TAXATION
      
111.   PEDDLERS, ITINERANT MERCHANTS AND SOLICITORS
      
112.   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
      
113.   ADVERTISING; DISTRIBUTING HANDBILLS
      
114.   YARD SALES
      
115.   LIVE ENTERTAINMENT
      
116.   INSURANCE COMPANIES
      
117.   MOBILE FOOD VENDING SERVICES
CHAPTER 110: BUSINESS LICENSING AND TAXATION
Section
General Provisions
   
110.01   Definitions
   
110.02   Purpose
Business Regulations
   
110.15   Requirements
   
110.16   Prohibitions
   
110.17   Form and content of annual business regulatory license and application
   
110.18   Application process
   
110.19   Appeals
   
110.20   Expiration date
   
110.21   Kenton County Fiscal Court may perform duties
Business Taxation
   
110.35   Levy and imposition
   
110.36   Rate
   
110.37   Apportionment of gross receipts
Administration and Enforcement
   
110.50   Administrative provisions
   
110.51   Purpose of occupational license fee
   
110.52   Collection
   
110.53   Civil penalties
   
110.54   Severability
 
   
110.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Limitation on false alarm drops by businesses, see §
37.01
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 110.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ANYBODY. Any human being, and any combination thereof, in the form of
partnership, corporation, joint venture, unincorporated association, or
otherwise.
   APPLICABLE LAWS. The constitutions, statutes, ordinances, rules, regulations
and other laws of the United States, Commonwealth of Kentucky, County of Kenton
and any other governmental entity or agency having jurisdiction.
   BUSINESS. Any and all franchises, trades, occupations, professions or other
businesses within the meaning and context of KRS 92.280, KRS 92.281 and § 181
of the Kentucky Constitution.
   BUSINESS REGULATORY LICENSE. A license required by the city, pursuant to the
police power thereof, for the purpose of regulating business activities and
operations within the city.
   BUSINESS REGULATORY LICENSE FEE. A fee required by the city and the police
power thereof, to provide the funds necessary to pay the expenses of regulating
business activities and operations within the city, including, without
limitation, the expense of issuing business regulatory licenses.
   CITY. The City of Bromley, in Kenton County, Kentucky.
   NOBODY. Not anybody, or no human being, or any combination thereof, in the
form of a partnership, corporation, joint venture, unincorporated association,
or otherwise.
   OCCUPATIONAL LICENSE FEE. A tax for revenue, pursuant to the taxing
authority of the City of Bromley, including, without limitation, the authority
therefor established by KRS 82.082, KRS 92.280, KRS 92.281 and § 181 of the
Kentucky Constitution, wherein it is sometimes identified and referred to as a
power to impose and collect license fees on stock used for breeding purposes,
on franchises, trades, occupations and professions.
(1997 Code, § 110.01) (Ord. 12-1-07, passed 12-13-2007)
§ 110.02 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to both regulate and tax those engaged in
franchises, trades, occupations, professions and other businesses.
(1997 Code, § 110.02) (Ord. 12-1-07, passed 12-13-2007)
BUSINESS REGULATIONS
§ 110.15 REQUIREMENTS.
   Everybody who is engaged in any franchise, trade, occupation, profession or
other business in the city, other than those who are only so engaged as an
employee, shall obtain an annual business regulatory license for that
franchise, trade, occupation, profession or other business; and pay to the city
a business regulatory license fee in the amount of either $50 or that part of a
multi-jurisdictional occupational permit fee, collected by the county and
proportionally allocated to the city, pursuant to the provisions of an inter-
local agreement between the city and the county and some other cities therein,
for a single multi-jurisdictional annual occupational permit fee of $225, which
the Mayor is hereby authorized and directed to sign on behalf of the city.
(1997 Code, § 110.15) (Ord. 12-1-07, passed 12-13-2007; Ord. 11-1-08, passed
12-3-2008)
§ 110.16 PROHIBITIONS.
   Nobody, other than those who are only engaged as employees in the city,
shall conspire, cause, permit, promote, allow, aid, assist, encourage or engage
in any franchise, trade, occupation, profession or other business in the city
for which the annual business regulatory license required hereby has not been
issued.
(1997 Code, § 110.16) (Ord. 12-1-07, passed 12-13-2007)
§ 110.17 FORM AND CONTENT OF ANNUAL BUSINESS REGULATORY LICENSE AND
APPLICATION.
   The form and content of the annual business regulatory license required by
this chapter and the application for it shall be determined by the City
Administrative Officer; provided, however, that the application shall include:
   (A)   Sufficient information for the identification of the persons involved
in the franchise, trade, occupation, profession or other business;
   (B)   The computation of the annual occupational license fee imposed by this
chapter;
   (C)   Sufficient information and inspection authorization for a
determination by the city of compliance by the licensee with all applicable
laws;
   (D)   The name in which the business will be conducted; the address of the
real estate upon which the business will be conducted, and the mailing address
of the business if different from the location; and the business telephone
number and the state tax identification numbers of the business;
   (E)   The name, address, date of birth and Social Security number of each
owner of the business and each partner, officer or director, if any;
   (F)   The name, residence address and telephone number of a duly authorized
representative of the business who is responsible for operating and managing
the business in the city, and a night emergency number at which some
responsible representative of the business can be reached in case of an
emergency;
   (G)   A full description of the business operations to be conducted;
   (H)   The date on which the business began or will begin operations in the
city;
   (I)   The accounting period of the business;
   (J)   The number of employees working or expected to be working for the
business in the city during the license year;
   (K)   A statement describing the circumstances of each denial, suspension or
revocation of any business regulatory license for any person named or
identified in the application;
   (L)   A statement describing the circumstances of each conviction of any
person named or identified in the application of a felony, misdemeanor for
which imprisonment or other confinement was a possible penalty, any other crime
in which moral turpitude was involved, or any other crime directly related to a
business similar to that which is the subject of the application;
   (M)   A statement as to whether any license, permit, degree, certification
or similar document is required by any applicable law for the conduct or
employment in the business;
   (N)   A statement as to whether there are hazardous materials kept at the
business premises and the location thereof, and whether there are pets, guard
dogs or other animals usually kept therein and any other information which the
applicant believes would be necessary or helpful to emergency personnel
responding to a call to said premises;
   (O)   The gross receipts and hereinafter described property factor, sales
factor, and payroll factor of the business for the previous calendar year;
   (P)   Such additional information that the City Administrative Officer
determines to be reasonably necessary;
   (Q)   A warning in the following or similar language:
“WARNING: Statements in this application shall be made under oath, by
affirmation or any other legally authorized manner of attesting to the truth of
such statements, with the signatures notarized, according to law; and any false
statements made herein shall be punishable according to law; and may be cause
for denial of the application or the revocation of any business regulatory
license issued pursuant thereto.”
   (R)   All information from any previous application for an annual business
regulatory license required by this ordinance, which continues to be accurate,
may be incorporated by reference into subsequent annual applications for the
same license by the same applicant.
(1997 Code, § 110.17) (Ord. 12-1-07, passed 12-13-2007)
§ 110.18 APPLICATION PROCESS.
   (A)   Signature to application. Each application for an annual business
regulatory license required by this chapter shall be signed by the applicant or
an authorized representative of the applicant, who shall attest to the truth of
the statements therein, with knowledge that any false statements constitute
perjury, for which the signatory may be prosecuted and punished according to
law; and such signatures shall be notarized according to law.
   (B)   Payment of fees. Each application for an annual business regulatory
license required by this chapter shall be presented to the City Clerk/Tax
Collector, or any designee thereof, along with both the business regulatory
license fee and any occupational license fee that is due from the applicant. No
application for a business regulatory license shall be accepted or received by
the City Clerk without payment of the business regulatory license fee and any
occupational license fee due from the applicant.
   (C)   Review of applications. Each application for an annual business
regulatory license required by this chapter that is received and accepted by
the City Clerk/Tax Collector shall be immediately referred to the City
Administrative Officer, who shall review it according to the following
standards within 30 days after the receipt and acceptance thereof by the City
Clerk/Tax Collector.
      (1)   When the applicant, or employees of the applicant, are required to
have any license, permit, degree, certification or other similar document
pursuant to the provision of any applicable law for the conduct of or
employment in the business which is the subject of the application; the
license, permit, degree, certification or other similar document shall have
been duly issued to the applicant or employees of the applicant prior to the
issuance of the business regulatory license. Documentary evidence of the
issuance satisfactory to the City Administrative Officer shall be provided by
the applicant.
      (2)   The criminal record of the persons named or identified in the
application shall be considered to the extent such record includes conviction
of a felony, a misdemeanor for which imprisonment or other confinement was a
possible penalty, any other crime in which moral turpitude was involved; or any
other crime which was directly related to a business of the type which is the
subject of the application. In determining if a conviction was directly related
to a business, the City Administrative Officer shall consider:
         (a)   The nature and seriousness of the crime for which the person was
convicted;
         (b)   The relationship of the crime to the purpose of the regulation
of the business;
         (c)   The relationship of the crime to the ability, capacity and
fitness required to perform the duties and discharge the responsibilities of
the operation of the business; and
         (d)   The extent to which the person convicted has been successfully
rehabilitated.
      (3)   The City Administrative Officer shall consider whether the business
is of a type that the operation, unless closely supervised, has a probability
of generating or resulting in criminal activity or adversely affecting the
health, safety, morals and welfare of occupants or residents of adjoining
property, the citizens and residents of the city, or will constitute a
nuisance.
      (4)   The City Administrative Officer shall consider the business history
of the applicant including:
         (a)   Whether the persons named and identified in the application have
been denied or had suspended or revoked a similar license by the city or any
other city, county or state and the reasons therefor; or
         (b)   Whether complaints have been received by the city about the
business practices or responsibility of the persons named and identified in the
application, and the disposition of those complaints.
      (5)   The City Administrative Officer shall consider whether the persons
named and identified in the application are indebted to the city for delinquent
taxes, assessments, fines or similar obligations.
      (6)   The City Administrative Officer shall consider whether the business
and the proposed location complies with all applicable laws, including, without
limitation, land subdivision and use, zoning, building construction and
maintenance, and fire prevention and life safety regulations.
      (7)   After review of the application in conformity with this chapter,
the City Administrative Officer shall notify the City Clerk/Tax Collector, or
any designee thereof, of either:
         (a)   The approval of the application;
         (b)   The approval of the application conditionally; but if the
application is approved conditionally, the City Administrative Officer shall
determine and require those conditions that are reasonably necessary to
accomplish the intent of this chapter, including, without limitation:
            1.   A requirement that the applicant post bond with surety
acceptable to the City Administrative Officer in a reasonable amount determined
by the City Administrative Officer to ensure compliance;
            2.   A requirement that a debt to the city be paid before a
specified date;
            3.   A requirement that the applicant permit periodic inspection of
certain parts of the premises or of certain records; or
            4.   A requirement that certain alterations be made in the premises
before a specified date.
         (c)   The disapproval of the application.
   (D)   Notice to the applicant. Unless the City Clerk/Tax Collector receives
a written notice from the City Administrative Officer, within 30 days after an
application for a business regulatory license required by this chapter has been
referred to the City Administrative Officer for review pursuant to division (C)
above of this section, that the application was either conditionally approved
or disapproved, the City Clerk/ Tax Collector, or the designee thereof shall
issue the business regulatory license that is the subject of the application
and mail it to the applicant at the address indicated in the application; and,
thereafter, the applicant may engage in the franchise, trade, occupation,
profession or other business described in the application, but only at the
address thereof indicated in the application, until that business regulatory
license expires or is suspended or revoked according to the provisions of this
chapter.
   (E)   Conditional approval of application. In the event that the City Clerk/
Tax Collector receives a written notice from the City Administrative Officer,
within 30 days after an application for a business regulatory license required
by this chapter has been referred to the City Administrative Officer for review
pursuant to division (D) above of this section, that the application was
conditionally approved, the City Clerk/Tax Collector shall notify the applicant
thereof and the reasons therefor identified by the City Administrative Officer,
by certified mail, return receipt requested, to the address of the applicant
indicated in the application, along with a notice that the license will be
issued by the City Clerk/Tax Collector only upon receipt by the City Clerk/Tax
Collector of a written signed acceptance by the applicant of the conditions to
be performed prior to the issuance of the license. The notice shall also state
that if the acceptance is not received by the City Clerk/Tax Collector within
such time, the application will thereby be disapproved.
   (F)   Disapproval of application. In the event that the City Clerk/Tax
Collector receives a written notice from the City Administrative Officer,
within 30 days after an application for a business regulatory license required
by this chapter has been referred to the City Administrative Officer for review
pursuant to division (D) above of this section, that the application was
disapproved by the City Administrative Officer, the City Clerk/Tax Collector
shall notify the applicant of that denial and the reasons therefor identified
by the City Administrative Officer, by certified mail, return receipt
requested, to the address of the applicant indicated in the application, with a
refund of any anticipated city occupational license fee paid with the
application, and a notice of the procedure established in this chapter for an
appeal from the denial of that application.
   (G)   Business regulatory license revocation or suspension. Any business
regulatory license required by this chapter may be revoked or suspended by the
City Administrative Officer for any period of time determined by the City
Administrative Officer to be reasonable and appropriate for any of the
following reasons; but only after a due process evidentiary hearing in regard
thereto, for which a notice has been sent to the licensee at the address
indicated in the licensee’s application, by certified mail, return receipt
requested, at least ten days prior to the hearing:
      (1)   Any false or intentionally misleading statement or information
provided in the license application;
      (2)   Any failure or refusal to perform or abide by any of the conditions
of a conditional license.
      (3)   The criminal conviction of any person named or identified in the
license application of a felony, a misdemeanor for which imprisonment or any
other confinement is a possible penalty, any other crime in which moral
turpitude is involved, or any other crime which directly relates to a business
of the type for which the license was issued. However, the consideration of
such a criminal conviction shall include:
         (a)   The nature and seriousness of the crime for which the person was
convicted;
         (b)   The relationship of the crime to the purposes of the regulation
of the business;
         (c)   The relationship of the crime to the ability, capacity and
fitness required to perform the duties and discharge the responsibilities of
the operation of the business; and
         (d)   The extent to which the person has been successfully
rehabilitated.
      (4)   The revocation, suspension or expiration without renewal of any
license, permit, degree, certification or similar document which is required by
any applicable law for the conduct of or employment in the business for which
the license was issued;
      (5)   The violation of any applicable law in the conduct of the business
by any person engaged therein;
      (6)   Violations of applicable laws by any person within the business
premises of the licensee, or under the control thereof; and
      (7)   The revocation or suspension of a city business regulatory license
pursuant to city ordinance shall be in addition to the imposition of any other
penalty prescribed by city ordinance or any other applicable law.
(1997 Code, § 110.18) (Ord. 12-1-07, passed 12-13-2007)
§ 110.19 APPEALS.
   (A)   Any conditional approval or disapproval of an application for a
business regulatory license required by this chapter, or any suspension or
revocation of any such license may be appealed to the Mayor of the city, by
filing with the City Clerk/Tax Collector, within 30 days after the conditional
approval, disapproval, revocation or suspension:
      (1)   A written notice of the appeal; and
      (2)   A copy of the conditional approval, disapproval, revocation or
suspension that is the subject of the appeal; and
      (3)   A statement why there should be an approval without conditions, or
no disapproval, revocation or suspension; and
      (4)   An appeal fee in the sum of $200, to provide for the expenses of
conducting a due process hearing in regard thereto.
   (B)   In such an appeal, a de novo due process hearing in regard to the
suspension or revocation shall be conducted by the Mayor, or by a hearing
officer appointed by the Mayor, who shall file a record with the Mayor, with a
written recommendation regarding findings of fact, conclusions of law and a
decision based thereon. Within 90 days after the date the appeal was filed, the
Mayor shall issue a written decision in regard thereto, including findings of
fact, conclusions of law and a decision based upon a record of the due process
hearing; and the appellant shall be notified thereof by certified mail, return
receipt requested, at the address thereof indicated in the application for the
license. Unless an appeal from the decision of the Mayor is filed in the court
having jurisdiction thereof within 30 days after the decision of the Mayor, the
decision of the Mayor shall become final.
(1997 Code, § 110.19) (Ord. 12-1-07, passed 12-13-2007)
§ 110.20 EXPIRATION DATE.
   Unless an earlier expiration date is provided therein, all business
regulatory licenses required hereby shall expire at midnight on the fifteenth
day of the fourth month after the end of the fiscal year of the licensee.
(1997 Code, § 110.20) (Ord. 12-1-07, passed 12-13-2007)
§ 110.21 KENTON COUNTY FISCAL COURT MAY PERFORM DUTIES.
   The executive authority of the city may contract with the Fiscal Court of
the county, for the performance of the duties imposed by this chapter on the
City Clerk/Tax Collector.
(1997 Code, § 110.21) (Ord. 12-1-07, passed 12-13-2007)
BUSINESS TAXATION
§ 110.35 LEVY AND IMPOSITION.
   For the purpose of providing funds for the general operating expenses of the
city and the municipal services and functions provided thereby, and subject to
the provisions of KRS 67.750 through 67.795, and except as provided in §
110.17 of this chapter, an occupational license fee is hereby levied and
imposed upon everybody engaged in any franchise, trade, occupation, profession
or other businesses in the city, for the privilege of that engagement.
(1997 Code, § 110.35) (Ord. 12-1-07, passed 12-13-2007)
§ 110.36 RATE.
   The occupational license fee that is levied and imposed by this chapter is
at the rate of 0.125% of the taxable gross receipts of everybody who is engaged
in any franchise, trade, occupation, profession or other business in the city,
and the occupational license fee that is levied and imposed by this chapter is
at the rate of 1% of gross compensation of employees earned by them from their
labor, services, actions and operations within the city.
(1997 Code, § 110.36) (Ord. 12-1-07, passed 12-13-2007; Ord. 5-3-15, passed 6-
3-2015)
§ 110.37 APPORTIONMENT OF GROSS RECEIPTS.
   Pursuant to the authority of KRS 67.753(4), it is hereby determined that the
apportionment provisions of KRS 67.753 do not fairly represent the extent of
the engagement in the city of those, other than employees, who are engaged in
any franchise, trade, occupation, profession or other business both within and
outside of the city; and, accordingly, the following described property factor
is hereby added to the payroll factor and the sales factor provided in KRS
67.753 for the apportionment of the gross receipts of those, other than
employees, who are engaged in any franchise, trade, occupation, profession or
other business both within and outside of the city.
   (A)   The property factor is a fraction, the numerator of which is the
average value of the taxpayers real and tangible personal property owned or
rented and used in the city during the computation period, and the denominator
of which is the average value of all of the taxpayer’s real and tangible
personal property owned or rented and used anywhere during the computation
period. In the determination of the property factor:
      (1)   Property owned by the taxpayer is valued at its original cost.
Property rented by the taxpayer is valued at eight times the net annual rental
rate which is the annual rental rate paid by the taxpayer less any annual
rental rate received by the taxpayer from sub-rentals; or
      (2)   The average value of property shall be determined by averaging the
values at the beginning and ending of the computation period, but the City
Administrative Officer may require the averaging of monthly values during the
computation period if reasonably required to reflect properly the average value
of the taxpayer’s property.
   (B)   The proportion of the total gross receipts everywhere of those, other
than employees, who are engaged in any franchise, trade, occupation, profession
or other business both within and outside of the city that are subject to the
occupational license fee established by this chapter, shall be determined by
multiplying the total gross receipts thereof everywhere by the quotient of the
total of the payroll factor and the sales factor described in KRS 67.753(2) and
(3), and the property factor described in the previous division (A), that the
franchise, trade, occupation, profession or other business had in the city
during the tax period, divided by the total number of those factors that the
franchise, trade, occupation, profession or other business had in the city
during the tax period. The total number of those factors that the franchise,
trade, occupation, profession or other business had in the city during the tax
period will always be either 1, 2 or 3. For example, if the franchise, trade,
occupation, profession or other business:
      (1)   Had only the sales revenue factor in the city, during the tax
period, without either the property factor or the payroll factor in the city,
the total number of those factors that the franchise, trade, occupation,
profession or other business had in the city during the tax period would be 1;
or
      (2)   Had both the sales revenue factor and the payroll factor in the
city, during the tax period, without the property factor in the city, the total
number of those factors that the franchise, trade, occupation, profession or
other business had in the city during the tax period would be 2; or
      (3)   Had the sales revenue factor, and the payroll factor, and the
property factor in the city, during the tax period, the total number of those
factors that the franchise, trade, occupation, profession or other business had
in the city during the tax period would be 3.
(1997 Code, § 110.37) (Ord. 12-1-07, passed 12-13-2007)
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 110.50 ADMINISTRATIVE PROVISIONS.
   The provisions of this chapter shall be administered and enforced by the
City Administrative Officer, who is hereby authorized to promulgate any
additional regulations in regard thereto which are not inconsistent with any
state statute, or any ordinance of the city, or any executive order of the
Mayor.
(1997 Code, § 110.50) (Ord. 12-1-07, passed 12-13-2007)
§ 110.51 PURPOSE OF OCCUPATIONAL LICENSE FEE.
   The purpose of the business regulatory license fees and the occupational
license fees imposed and levied by this chapter is to fund the general
operating expenses of the city, including, without limitation, police, fire,
emergency medical, public works and administrative services.
(1997 Code, § 110.51) (Ord. 12-1-07, passed 12-13-2007)
§ 110.52 COLLECTION.
   The business regulatory license fees and occupational license fees imposed
and levied by this chapter shall be received and collected by the City Clerk/
Tax Collector or by the Fiscal Court of the county, with which the executive
authority of the city is hereby authorized to contract for those services.
(1997 Code, § 110.52) (Ord. 12-1-07, passed 12-13-2007)
§ 110.53 CIVIL PENALTIES.
   Each separate violation of this chapter is hereby classified as a civil
offense, for which:
   (A)   The maximum civil fine required by KRS 65.8808(2)(b(1)) that may be
imposed for each separate violation of this ordinance, is hereby established as
$500; and
   (B)   The specific civil fine required by KRS 65.8808(2)(b)(2) that will be
imposed for each separate offense and violation of this ordinance if the person
who has committed the violation and offense does not contest a citation
therefor, is hereby established as $100;
   (C)   An enforcement officer may, in lieu of immediately issuing a civil
citation , give notice that the violation of this ordinance shall be remedied
within a specific period of time.
(1997 Code, § 110.53) (Ord. 12-1-07, passed 12-13-2007)
§ 110.54 SEVERABILITY.
   The provisions of this chapter are severable; and the invalidity of any
provision of this chapter shall not affect the validity of any other provision
thereof; and such other provisions shall remain in full force and effect as
long as they remain valid in the absence of those provisions determined to be
invalid.
(1997 Code, § 110.54) (Ord. 12-1-07, passed 12-13-2007)
§ 110.99 PENALTY.
   Each violation of this chapter shall be a misdemeanor for which everybody
convicted thereof in a court of competent jurisdiction shall be sentenced to
pay a criminal fine not to exceed the maximum amount of $500 as set forth in
KRS 534.040(2)(a) or a term of imprisonment not to exceed the maximum period of
12 months as set forth in KRS 532.090(1), or both.
(1997 Code, § 110.99) (Ord. 12-1-07, passed 12-13-2007)
CHAPTER 111: PEDDLERS, ITINERANT MERCHANTS AND SOLICITORS
Section
   
111.01   Definitions
   
111.02   License requirement
   
111.03   Application procedure
   
111.04   Revocation procedure
   
111.05   Standards for revocation
   
111.06   Appeal procedure
   
111.07   Exhibition of identification
 
   
111.99   Penalty
§ 111.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUSINESS. The business carried on by any person who is an itinerant
merchant, peddler, or solicitor as defined in this section.
   GOODS. Merchandise of any description whatsoever, and includes, but is not
restricted to, wares and foodstuffs.
   ITINERANT MERCHANT. Any person, whether as owner, agent, or consignee, who
engages in a temporary business of selling goods within the city and who, in
the furtherance of such business, uses any building, structure, vehicle, or any
place within the city.
   PEDDLER.
      (1)   Any person who travels from place to place by any means carrying
goods for sale, or making sales, or making deliveries; or
      (2)   Any person who, without traveling from place to place, sells or
offers goods for sale from any public place within the city.
      (3)   A person who is a PEDDLER is not an itinerant merchant.
   SOLICITOR. Any person who travels by any means from place to place, taking
or attempting to take orders for sale of goods to be delivered in the future or
for services to be performed in the future. A person who is a SOLICITOR is not
a peddler.
(1997 Code, § 111.01)
§ 111.02 LICENSE REQUIREMENT.
   (A)   Any person who is an itinerant merchant, peddler, or solicitor shall
obtain a license before engaging in such activity within the city.
   (B)   The fee for the license required by this chapter shall be as set from
time to time by the legislative body.
   (C)   No license issued under this chapter shall be transferable.
   (D)   All licenses issued under this chapter shall expire 90 days after the
date of issuance thereof.
(1997 Code, § 111.02) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.03 APPLICATION PROCEDURE.
   (A)   All applicants for licenses required by this chapter shall file an
application with the City Clerk. This application shall be signed by the
applicant if an individual, or by all partners if a partnership, or by the
president if a corporation. The applicant may be requested to provide
information concerning the following items:
      (1)   The name and address of the applicant;
      (2)   (a)   The name of the individual having management authority or
supervision of the applicant’s business during the time that it is proposed to
be carried on in the city;
         (b)   The local address of such individual;
         (c)   The permanent address of such individual;
         (d)   The capacity in which such individual will act;
      (3)   The name and address of the person, if any, for whose purpose the
business will be carried on, and, if a corporation, the state of incorporation;
      (4)   The time period or periods during which it is proposed to carry on
applicant’s business;
      (5)   (a)   The nature, character and quality of the goods or services to
be offered for sale or delivered;
         (b)   If goods, their invoice value and whether they are to be sold by
sample as well as from stock; and
         (c)   If goods, where and by whom such goods are manufactured or
grown, and where such goods are at the time of application.
      (6)   The nature of the advertising proposed to be done for the business;
      (7)   Whether or not the applicant, or the individual identified in
division (A)(2)(a) above, or the person identified division (A)(3) has been
convicted of any crime or misdemeanor and, if so, the nature of each offense
and the penalty assessed for each offense.
   (B)   Applicants for peddler or solicitor licenses may be required to
provide further information concerning the following items, in addition to that
requested under division (A) above:
      (1)   A description of the applicant; and
      (2)   A description of any vehicle proposed to be used in the business,
including its registration number, if any.
   (C)   All applicants for licenses required by this chapter shall attach to
their application the following:
      (1)   If required by the city, copies of all printed advertising proposed
to be used in connection with the applicant’s business; and
      (2)   If required by the city, credentials from the person, if any, for
which the applicant proposes to do business, authorizing the applicant to act
as such representative.
   (D)   Applicants who propose to handle foodstuffs shall also attach to their
application, in addition to any attachments required under division (C), a
statement from a licensed physician, dated not more than ten days prior to the
date of application, certifying the applicant to be free of contagious or
communicable disease.
(1997 Code, § 111.03) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.04 REVOCATION PROCEDURE.
   Any license or permit granted under this chapter may be revoked by the City
Clerk after notice and hearing, pursuant to the standards in §
111.05 of this chapter. Notice of hearing for revocation shall be given in
writing, setting forth specifically the grounds of the complaint and the time
and place of the hearing. Such notice shall be mailed to the licensee at his or
her last known address, at least ten days prior to the date set for the
hearing.
(1997 Code, § 111.05)
§ 111.05 STANDARDS FOR REVOCATION.
   A license granted under this chapter may be revoked for any of the following
reasons:
   (A)   Any fraud or misrepresentation contained in the license application;
   (B)   Any fraud, misrepresentation or false statement made in connection
with the business being conducted under the license;
   (C)   Any violation of this chapter;
   (D)   Conviction of the licensee of any felony, or conviction of the
licensee of any misdemeanor involving moral turpitude; or
   (E)   Conducting the business licensed in an unlawful manner or in such a
way as to constitute a menace to the health, safety, morals or general welfare
of the public.
(1997 Code, § 111.06)
§ 111.06 APPEAL PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Any person aggrieved by a decision under §
111.05 of this chapter shall have the right to appeal to the legislative body.
The appeal shall be taken by filing with the legislative body, within 14 days
after notice of the decision has been mailed to such person’s last known
address, a written statement setting forth the grounds for appeal. The
legislative body shall set the time and place for a hearing, and notice for
such hearing shall be given to such person in the same manner as provided in §
111.04 of this chapter.
   (B)   The order of the legislative body after the hearing shall be final.
(1997 Code, § 111.07)
§ 111.07 EXHIBITION OF IDENTIFICATION.
   (A)   Any license issued to an itinerant merchant under this chapter shall
be posted conspicuously in or at the place named therein. In the event more
than one place within the city shall used to conduct the business licensed,
separate licenses shall be issued for each place.
   (B)   The City Clerk shall issue a license to each peddler or solicitor
licensed under this chapter. The license shall contain the words “Licensed
Peddler” or “Licensed Solicitor”, the expiration date of the license, and the
number of the license. The license shall be kept with the licensee during such
time as he is engaged in the business licensed.
(1997 Code, § 111.08) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and shall be fined not more than $500. Each day’s violation shall
constitute a separate offense.
(1997 Code, § 111.99)
CHAPTER 112: ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
Section
General Provisions
   
112.01   Definitions
   
112.02   State law adopted
   
112.03   Alcoholic Beverage Control Administrator
   
112.04   Hours of operation
Licensing
   
112.15   License required
   
112.16   Application
   
112.17   Restrictions on issuance
   
112.18   Number to be issued
   
112.19   Term
   
112.20   Classification; fees
   
112.21   Disposition of fees
   
112.22   Change of location
   
112.23   Renewal; replacement
   
112.24   License to be displayed
Use Regulations
   
112.35   Drinking on parking lots prohibited
   
112.36   Parking lot signs to be posted
   
112.37   Responsibility for controlling alcoholic beverage use on parking lot
 
   
112.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 112.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, all definitions contained in KRS Chapters
241, 242 and 243 are incorporated herein by reference as if fully set forth.
(1997 Code, § 112.01) (Ord. 11-1-13, passed 12-4-2013)
§ 112.02 STATE LAW ADOPTED.
   The provisions of KRS Chapters 243 and 244 are hereby adopted and made a
part of this chapter by reference as fully as though copied herein. No person
or premises who or which may be ineligible or disqualified from holding any
permit or license pursuant to the provisions thereof shall be eligible or
qualified to receive or hold a license under the provisions of this chapter.
(1997 Code, § 112.02)
§ 112.03 ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE CONTROL ADMINISTRATOR.
   The City Clerk shall perform the duties of the Alcoholic Beverage Control
Administrator, as prescribed under state law.
(1997 Code, § 112.03)
§ 112.04 HOURS OF OPERATION.
   Premises which have obtained a malt beverages license may remain open
between the hours of 11:00 a.m. Sunday and 1:00 a.m. Monday and may sell malt
beverages during those hours. Alcoholic beverages may be sold on any special,
general, primary or local issue election day in the city under the general
provisions of any license issued.
(Ord. 9-1-12, passed 12-4-2013; Ord. 11-1-13, passed 12-4-2013)
LICENSING
§ 112.15 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful to sell or offer for sale at retail in the city any
alcoholic beverage without having a retail alcoholic beverage dealer’s license,
as provided in this chapter or in violation of the terms of such license.
(1997 Code, § 112.10) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.16 APPLICATION.
   Application for a license under this chapter shall be made to the Alcoholic
Beverage Control Administrator, in writing, signed by the applicant if an
individual, or by a duly authorized agent thereof if a club or corporation,
verified by oath or affidavit, and shall contain the following statements and
information:
   (A) The name, age and address of the applicant in the case of an individual;
in the case of a co-partnership, the persons entitled to share in the profits
thereof; in the case of a corporation, the names and addresses of the officers,
directors and any stockholder who owns 5% or more of the stock of such
corporation;
   (B) The location and description of the premises or place of business which
is to be operated under the license;
   (C) A statement that the applicant has never been convicted of a felony and
is not disqualified to receive a license by reason of any matter or thing
contained in this chapter, laws of the state or the ordinances of the city; and
   (D) Whether a previous license by any state or subdivision thereof, or by
the federal government, has been revoked and the reasons therefor.
(1997 Code, § 112.11)
§ 112.17 RESTRICTIONS ON ISSUANCE.
   No person shall become a licensee under this chapter who:
   (A) Has been convicted of any felony or misdemeanor directly or indirectly
attributable to the use of alcoholic beverages, within two years preceding the
application;
   (B) Is under the age of 21 years;
   (C) Is a partnership or corporation, unless each member of the partnership
or each of the directors, principal officers or managers of the corporation has
not been convicted of any misdemeanor or felony directly attributable to the
use of alcoholic beverages, is 21 years of age or more, and is a citizen of the
United States;
   (D) Has had any license issued under this chapter relating to the regulation
of the manufacture, sale and transportation of alcoholic beverages revoked for
cause or has been convicted of a violation of any such license until the
expiration of two years from the date of the revocation or conviction; or
   (E) Is a partnership or corporation, if any member of the partnership or any
director or principal officer of the corporation has had any license issued
under any regulation relating to the regulation of the manufacture, sale and
transportation of alcoholic beverages, revoked for cause or has been convicted
of a violation of any such regulation, until the expiration of two years from
the date of the revocation or conviction.
(KRS 243.100)
§ 112.18 NUMBER TO BE ISSUED.
   The number of alcoholic beverage licenses issued under this chapter and in
force at any one time within the city shall be in accordance with the number of
distilled spirits and wine licenses permissible under state law.
(1997 Code, § 112.13)
§ 112.19 TERM.
   (A)   All licenses issued by the city, except special event licenses,
temporary licenses or licenses listed in division (D) below, shall be valid for
a period of no more than a year and shall expire on November 30 of each year,
beginning in the year 2014.
   (B)   (1)   When any person applies for a new license authorized under KRS
Chapters 241 to 244, he or she shall be charged, if the license is issued, the
full fee for the respective license if six months or more remain before the
license is due to be renewed and one-half the fee if less than six months
remain before the license is due to be renewed.
      (2)   No abatement of license fees shall be permitted to any person who
held a license of the same kind for the same premises in the preceding license
period and who was actually doing business under the license during the last
month of the preceding license period.
   (C)   The renewal by the city of the certificate or permit of any alcoholic
beverage license shall not be construed to waive or condone any violation that
occurred prior to the renewal and shall not prevent subsequent proceedings
against the licensee.
   (D)   All alcoholic beverage producers, wholesalers or distributors may
obtain or renew their licenses for either a one-year term or a two-year term.
(1997 Code, § 112.14) (Ord. 11-1-13, passed 12-4-2013)
§ 112.20 CLASSIFICATION; FEES.
   (A)   Pursuant to KRS 243.070, the city hereby imposes the following license
fees for the privilege of manufacturing and trafficking in alcoholic beverages
in the city. Only those licenses set out in this section shall be issued. The
license fees are subject to the provisions of divisions (B), (C) and (D) below.
Bottling house or bottling house storage license, per annum             $1,000
Caterer’s license, per annum                                          $800
Distilled spirit licenses, as set forth in KRS 243.030
   Distiller’s license, per annum                                  $500
   Rectifier’s license, per annum                                  $3,000
   Wholesaler’s distilled spirits and wine license, per annum      $3,000
   Quota retail package license, per annum
      In counties containing a consolidated local government      $1,200
      In all other counties                                       $1,000
Distilled spirits and wine special temporary auction license, per event $200
Extended hours supplemental license, per annum                          $2,000
Limited golf course license (includes distilled spirits, wine, and malt
beverages), per annum
   In counties containing a consolidated local government            $1,800
   In all other counties                                             $1,200
Limited restaurant license (includes distilled spirits, wine and malt
beverages), per annum
   In counties containing a consolidated local government            $1,800
   In all other counties                                             $1,200
Malt beverage licenses, as follows
   Brewer’s license, per annum                                     $500
   Microbrewery license, per annum                                   $500
   Malt beverage distributor’s license, per annum                  $400
   Non-quota retail malt beverage package license, per annum         $200
   Non-quota type 4 retail malt beverage drink license, per annum    $200
   Malt beverage brew-on-premises license, per annum                 $100
Non-quota type 1 retail drink license (includes distilled spirits, wine $2,000
and malt beverages), per annum
Non-quota type 2 retail drink license (includes distilled spirits, wine and
malt beverages), per annum
   In counties containing a consolidated local government            $1,800
   In all other counties                                             $1,000
Non-quota type 3 retail drink license (includes distilled spirits, wine $300
and malt beverages), per annum
Quota retail drink license, per annum
   In counties containing a consolidated local government            $1,600
   In all other counties                                             $1,000
Special Sunday retail drink license, per annum                          $300
Special temporary license, per event
   In counties containing a consolidated local government            $266.66
   In all other counties                                             $166.66
 
   (B)   The fee for the following license types may not be increased by more
than 5% above the 1-1-2013 fee for the current license or the former license
type listed beside it during any five-year period. The fees for the licenses
described in this subsection are still subject to the maximum amounts listed
for those licenses in division (A) above:
      (1)   Quota retail package license: retail package liquor license;
      (2)   Quota retail drink license: retail drink license;
      (3)   Non-quota type 1 retail drink license: convention center or
convention hotel complex license;
      (4)   Non-quota type 2 retail drink license: restaurant drink license;
      (5)   Non-quota retail malt beverage package license: retail malt
beverage license;
      (6)   Non-quota type 4 retail malt beverage drink license: retail malt
beverage license; and
      (7)   Limited restaurant license.
   (C)   The fee for each of the first five supplemental bar licenses shall be
the same as the fee for the primary drink license. There shall be no charge for
each supplemental license issued in excess of five to the same licensee at the
same premises.
   (D)   The holder of a non-quota retail malt beverage package license may
obtain a non-quota type 4 malt beverage drink license for a fee of $50. The
holder of a non-quota type 4 malt beverage drink license may obtain a non-quota
retail malt beverage package license for a fee of $50.
(1997 Code, § 112.15) (Ord. 11-1-13, passed 12-4-2013)
Statutory reference:
   Alcoholic beverage licenses; fees, see KRS 243.030, 243.040, 243.070
§ 112.21 DISPOSITION OF FEES.
   All fees collected under this chapter shall be paid to the City Clerk at the
time application is made, and shall be forthwith turned over to the Treasurer.
In the event the license applied for is denied, the fee shall be returned to
the applicant; if the license is granted, then the fee shall be deposited in
the General Fund or in such other fund as shall have been designated by the
City Council.
(1997 Code, § 112.16)
§ 112.22 CHANGE OF LOCATION.
   (A)   A license issued under this chapter shall permit the sale of alcoholic
beverages only on the premises described in the application and license.
   (B)   Such location may be changed only when the written permit to make such
change shall be issued by the Alcoholic Beverage Control Administrator.
   (C)   No change of location shall be permitted unless the proposed new
location is in compliance with the provisions and regulations of this chapter.
(1997 Code, § 112.17)
§ 112.23 RENEWAL; REPLACEMENT.
   (A)   Renewal.
      (1)   Any licensee under this chapter may renew his or her license at the
expiration thereof; provided, he or she is then qualified to receive a license
and the premises for which such renewal license is sought are suitable for such
purpose.
      (2)   The renewal privilege herein provided for shall not be construed as
a vested right.
   (B)   Replacement. Whenever a license issued under this chapter shall become
lost or destroyed without fault upon the part of the holder, a duplicate of the
original shall be issued by the city upon the payment of a fee of $1 and an
affidavit stating the loss or destruction of the original license.
(1997 Code, § 112.18)
§ 112.24 LICENSE TO BE DISPLAYED.
   Licenses issued pursuant to the provisions of this chapter shall, while in
force, be posted in a conspicuous place where alcoholic beverages are kept for
sale.
(1997 Code, § 112.19)
USE REGULATIONS
§ 112.35 DRINKING ON PARKING LOTS PROHIBITED.
   No person shall drink any alcoholic beverage in any public place, or in any
motor vehicle on any parking lot area, or other facility used by any package
liquor license holder in connection with his or her business in any manner.
(1997 Code, § 112.30) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.36 PARKING LOT SIGNS TO BE POSTED.
   (A)   All persons, firms, corporations, partnerships, joint ventures or sole
proprietorships shall be required to post a sign or signs on all parking lots
adjacent, adjoining or connected with or used by a package liquor retail sales
outlet. The licensee shall provide the Police Chief with a drawing of his or
her normal entrances, driveways or other access onto the parking lot and all
customer or patron driveway entrances to and exits from the building from which
the package alcoholic beverage is dispensed.
   (B)   The licensee shall post lighted signs at such normal vehicle or
pedestrian exterior entrances via driveways or other access into the parking
lot. The licensee shall post signs of identical wording, readable from 50 feet,
at customer or patron driveway entrances to and exits from the building from
which the package alcoholic beverage is dispensed. Wording of all such signs
shall be:
 
NO DRINKING ON PARKING LOT.
VIOLATORS WILL BE PROSECUTED!
MINIMUM FINE $100.00
MAXIMUM FINE $500.00
(CITY ORDINANCE)
 
(1997 Code, § 112.31) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.37 RESPONSIBILITY FOR CONTROLLING ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE USE ON PARKING LOT.
   (A)   Any person, firm, corporation, partnership or joint venture shall
prohibit the drinking of any alcoholic beverage on a parking lot adjacent,
adjoining or connected with a package liquor retail sales outlet.
   (B)   Any person, firm, corporation, partnership or joint venture which has
erected and properly maintained and lighted a sign as required by §
112.36 of this chapter, shall be exempt from the provisions of this section.
(1997 Code, § 112.32) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which a
specific penalty is not provided shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be
fined not more than $500 or imprisoned for not more than 90 days, or both.
   (B)   Any person found to be in violation of the provisions of §
112.35 of this chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be fined not
less than $100, nor more than $500, or imprisoned for not more than 30 days, or
both.
      (1)   Any person, firm, corporation, partnership, joint venture or sole
proprietorship which fails to post signs required in §
112.36 of this chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be subject to
a fine of not less than $100, or more than $500, or imprisoned for not more
than 30 days, or both.
      (2)   Any person, firm, corporation, partnership or joint venture which
fails to prohibit the drinking of any alcoholic beverage on a parking lot
adjacent, adjoining or connected with a package liquor retail sales outlet as
required by §
112.37 of this chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be subject to
a fine of not less than $100, or more than $500, or imprisoned for not more
than 30 days, or both.
(1997 Code, § 112.99)
CHAPTER 113: ADVERTISING; DISTRIBUTING HANDBILLS
Section
   
113.01   Definitions
   
113.02   Distributors of handbills to obtain licenses
   
113.03   Chief of Police to be notified of distribution
   
113.04   Hours when distribution prohibited
   
113.05   Handbills not to be distributed to occupants of motor vehicles
   
113.06   Handbills not to be left on premises where posted notice prohibits
them
   
113.07   Handbills to be secured
 
   
113.99   Penalty
§ 113.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   COMMERCIAL HANDBILL. Any written, copied, reproduced or printed paper,
pamphlet, booklet, circular, notice or other literature which contains
advertisements or offers for sale or trade of any service, commodity,
merchandise or other thing; except that, newspapers of general circulation
published on a regular basis and sold to the general public shall not
constitute a COMMERCIAL HANDBILL for purposes of this chapter, nor shall items
carried and delivered by the United States Postal Service.
   NON-COMMERCIAL HANDBILL. Any written, copied, reproduced or printed paper,
pamphlet, booklet, circular, notice or other literature which is not carried
and delivered by the United States Postal Service, a newspaper or a commercial
handbill.
(1997 Code, § 113.01) (Ord. 3-2-83, passed 4-5-1983)
§ 113.02 DISTRIBUTORS OF HANDBILLS TO OBTAIN LICENSES.
   All persons who distribute commercial handbills shall only do so after
obtaining all necessary state, local and city licenses as may be provided by
ordinance or law.
(1997 Code, § 113.02) (Ord. 3-2-83, passed 4-5-1983) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.03 CHIEF OF POLICE TO BE NOTIFIED OF DISTRIBUTION.
   (A)   No person shall distribute commercial or non-commercial handbills
within the city limits without first notifying the Chief of Police in writing
at least 24 hours in advance of any such distribution. The notice required
hereunder shall state the name of the persons causing such material to be
distributed, his or her address, the approximate date and times of such
distribution and in the event such distribution is of a commercial handbill, a
statement that all necessary licenses and permits have been obtained. The
notice shall be given to the Chief of Police at the city’s Police Station or
any police officer at the Police Station during normal business hours.
   (B)   Notwithstanding any of the above, any person who distributes
commercial or non-commercial handbills within the city on a regular basis may
give the notice required in division (A) above once each year; provided, all
other information and requirements of division (A) are met. For purposes of
this division (B), distribution on a regular basis shall mean distribution on
the same day of the week at approximately the same time at least once every
other week.
(1997 Code, § 113.03) (Ord. 3-2-83, passed 4-5-1983) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.04 HOURS WHEN DISTRIBUTION PROHIBITED.
   No person shall distribute commercial or non-commercial handbills within the
city limits between the hours of 8:00 p.m. and 8:00 a.m. on any day of the
week.
(1997 Code, § 113.04) (Ord. 3-2-83, passed 4-5-1983) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.05 HANDBILLS NOT TO BE DISTRIBUTED TO OCCUPANTS OF MOTOR VEHICLES.
   Commercial and non-commercial handbills shall not be distributed to
occupants of motor vehicles on any federal, state or city street within the
city limits while such vehicles are moving, nor in any manner which would cause
a breach of the peace or create a danger to the life or safety of any
individual or property.
(1997 Code, § 113.05) (Ord. 3-2-83, passed 4-5-1983) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.06 HANDBILLS NOT BE LEFT ON PREMISES WHERE POSTED NOTICE PROHIBITS THEM.
   No commercial or non-commercial handbills shall be left, deposited, attached
or delivered to any premises at which is clearly posted a notice or sign
containing the words: “No Trespassing”, “Post No Bills”, “No Peddlers” or any
other similar notice indicating the occupants do not want handbills left upon
the premises.
(1997 Code, § 113.06) (Ord. 3-2-83, passed 4-5-1983) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.07 HANDBILLS TO BE SECURED.
   No commercial or non-commercial handbill shall be left, deposited, attached
or delivered to any premises unless it is placed or deposited in such a manner
as to secure or prevent it from being blown or drifted about such premises or
any public place. United States mailboxes shall not be used for such purposes
if prohibited by federal postal law or regulation.
(1997 Code, § 113.07) (Ord. 3-2-83, passed 4-5-1983) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and shall be fined not less than $50, nor more than $300.
(1997 Code, § 113.99) (Ord. 3-2-83, passed 4-5-1983)
CHAPTER 114: YARD SALES
Section
   
114.01   Purpose of regulations
   
114.02   Permit required; number limited
   
114.03   Advertisements
   
114.04   Sidewalk areas to be unobstructed
 
   
114.99   Penalty
§ 114.01 PURPOSE OF REGULATIONS.
   It is deemed desirable and necessary that yard and garage sales within the
city be controlled so as to prevent the unnecessary proliferation of nuisances
and the congestion of streets and public ways.
(1997 Code, § 114.01) (Ord. 11-1-78, passed - -1978)
§ 114.02 PERMIT REQUIRED; NUMBER LIMITED.
   (A)   All individuals holding or allowing a yard or garage or household sale
shall obtain from the City Clerk a permit to hold each sale. There shall be no
fee charged for the first such permit issued to an individual in any given
year. A fee in the amount of $25 shall be assessed for subsequent permits in
the same year. The yard or garage sale shall not exceed three days’ duration.
   (B)   Any person, or yard or garage sale location, within the city, shall be
restricted to three permits per year for the holding of any garage, yard or
household sale.
(1997 Code, § 114.02) (Ord. 11-1-78, passed - -1978) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.03 ADVERTISEMENTS.
   All advertisements concerning the yard or garage sale shall be restricted to
the yard, garage and household at which the sale is being conducted.
(1997 Code, § 114.03) (Ord. 11-1-78, passed - -1978) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.04 SIDEWALK AREAS TO BE UNOBSTRUCTED.
   All sidewalks, walk areas or driveways, abutting on and in front of the
property at which any yard or garage sale is being conducted, shall remain free
and uncongested so as to allow normal passage of traffic, both pedestrian and
motor vehicles.
(1997 Code, § 114.04) (Ord. 11-1-78, passed - -1978) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and shall be fined not more than $500 or imprisoned for not more
than 90 days, or both.
(1997 Code, § 114.99)
CHAPTER 115: LIVE ENTERTAINMENT
Section
   
115.01   Definition
   
115.02   License required
   
115.03   Application
   
115.04   License fee; use of fee
   
115.05   Issuance; transferability
   
115.06   License to be displayed
   
115.07   Hours of operation
   
115.08   Prohibited activities
   
115.09   Cancellation or refusal to reissue
   
115.10   Enforcement; access and inspection
   
115.11   Continuation of current license
 
   
115.99   Penalty
§ 115.01 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definition shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   LIVE ENTERTAINMENT. Any performance, act, playing of music or singing or
other similar conduct at a public place by an individual or individuals in
connection with the operation of a commercial place, restaurant, tavern,
nightclub or the like when the performer or performers receive compensation or
would normally be expected to receive compensation in furtherance of the
operation of such places of business.
(1997 Code, § 115.01) (Ord. 7-1-85, passed 8- -1985)
§ 115.02 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   No person or proprietor shall maintain, permit, allow or have at a place of
business in the city live entertainment without first obtaining a license from
the city.
(1997 Code, § 115.02) (Ord. 7-1-85, passed 8- -1985) Penalty, see §
115.99
§ 115.03 APPLICATION.
   (A)   An application for the license required for live entertainment shall
be in writing and accompanied by a check or cash in the amount of the license
fee set forth in §
115.04 of this chapter.
   (B)   The application shall set forth the name of the applicant, who shall
be the owner or proprietor of the business requesting such license, the address
of same, the location of the business where the licensed activity shall take
place and the general nature of the live entertainment to be conducted thereon,
and the frequency of same.
   (C)   The application and fee shall be submitted to the Chief of Police and
upon approval the license shall issue to the owner or proprietor as named on
the application.
(1997 Code, § 115.03) (Ord. 7-1-85, passed 8- -1985)
§ 115.04 LICENSE FEE; USE OF FEE.
   (A)   The annual license fee shall be $150 for live music and $500 for other
forms of live entertainment, and the fee shall be paid irrespective of when the
license is purchased within the license year. If both forms of live
entertainment are provided only one fee need be paid, which shall be the
highest fee applicable.
   (B)   All fees received for live entertainment license shall be paid into
the General Fund of the city.
(1997 Code, § 115.04) (Ord. 7-1-85, passed 8- -1985)
§ 115.05 ISSUANCE; TRANSFERABILITY.
   (A)   Every license issued under this chapter shall be issued for a period
of one year from May 1 through April 30 of the following year.
   (B)   No license for live entertainment shall be assigned or transferred
without the approval and consent of the Chief of Police and only after receipt
by the Chief of an application from the transferee complying with §
115.03 of this chapter.
(1997 Code, § 115.05) (Ord. 7-1-85, passed 8- -1985) Penalty, see §
115.99
§ 115.06 LICENSE TO BE DISPLAYED.
   Every license issued hereunder shall be displayed conspicuously in the
business to which it is issued.
(1997 Code, § 115.06) (Ord. 7-1-85, passed 8- -1985) Penalty, see §
115.99
§ 115.07 HOURS OF OPERATION.
   No person shall permit or allow, and no person shall perform live
entertainment within the city before the hour of 4:00 p.m. or after the hour of
12:00 midnight on Friday and Saturday and after the hour of 10:00 p.m. from
Sunday through Thursday.
(1997 Code, § 115.07) (Ord. 7-1-85, passed 8- -1985; Ord. 10-1-20, passed 12-2-
2020) Penalty, see §
115.99
§ 115.08 PROHIBITED ACTIVITIES.
   No person shall permit or allow and no person shall perform live
entertainment within the city which is obscene, lewd or a violation of any
other ordinance, regulation, statute or law of the city or commonwealth, or
which constitutes a nuisance to the residents of the city. No person shall
continue to permit or allow and no person shall perform live entertainment
following an order or directive of any police officer to cease such live
entertainment when, in the discretion of such police officer, the continued
live entertainment will cause a nuisance to the residents of the city.
(1997 Code, § 115.08) (Ord. 7-1-85, passed 8- -1985) Penalty, see §
115.99
§ 115.09 CANCELLATION OR REFUSAL TO REISSUE.
   (A)   (1)   Any violation of any section or requirement of this chapter, or
upon discovery of any false information upon the application required for
issuance of license required hereby, or any substantial deviation between
actual performance and the general nature of conduct as disclosed by the
application will be grounds for cancellation of any license issued hereunder by
the City Council.
      (2)   Prior to any cancellation, the City Council shall notify the
license holder at the address on the application of such cancellation and the
reasons therefor, and shall notify the license holder that in the event the
license holder requests a hearing before the Council, a written request for
hearing must be made within ten days of the date the notification from the City
Council is sent.
      (3)   A hearing shall be conducted at the next regular meeting of the
City Council and if, following the hearing, a majority of City Council votes
for cancellation on the grounds for which the license holder was notified, the
license shall be cancelled.
   (B)   (1)   Any violation of any section or requirement of this chapter, or
upon discovery of any false information upon the application required for
issuance of the license required hereby, or any substantial deviation between
actual performance and the general nature of conduct as disclosed by the
application will be grounds for the issuer of the license to refuse to reissue
a license for live entertainment.
      (2)   The refusal shall be in writing and shall state the grounds
therefor, and the same procedure for cancellation of a license shall apply for
review by City Council of a refusal to reissue and for notice to the license
holder.
(1997 Code, § 115.09) (Ord. 7-1-85, passed 8- -1985)
§ 115.10 ENFORCEMENT; ACCESS AND INSPECTION.
   (A)   This chapter shall be enforced by the Police Department or any other
peace officer with jurisdiction in the city.
   (B)   The Police Department or any peace officer with jurisdiction within
the city shall have access to all places of business with licenses issued
pursuant to this chapter and shall periodically inspect such businesses to
ensure compliance with this chapter.
(1997 Code, § 115.10) (Ord. 7-1-85, passed 8- -1985)
§ 115.11 CONTINUATION OF CURRENT LICENSE.
   The Chief of Police shall cause a copy of this chapter to be delivered or
mailed to all current live entertainment license holders at their last known
address within ten days of the effective date of this chapter. Any live
entertainment license currently issued shall continue in effect for 90 days
from the effective date of this chapter. Within that time, each license holder
shall comply with §
115.03 of this chapter and failure to do so will result in automatic
termination of such live entertainment licenses. There shall be no further fees
required for current license holders until 5-1-1986. Along with the copy of
this chapter required to be delivered above, the Chief of Police shall notify
the license holders that failure to comply within 90 days with §
115.03 of this chapter shall result in termination of the license.
(1997 Code, § 115.11) (Ord. 7-1-85, passed 8- -1985)
§ 115.99 PENALTY.
   Any violation of this chapter shall be deemed a misdemeanor and shall, upon
conviction in the county’s District Court, result in a punishment of a fine up
to $200 and up to 30 days imprisonment in the county jail or both. Each day of
violation shall constitute a separate offense.
(1997 Code, § 115.99) (Ord. 7-1-85, passed 8- -1985)
CHAPTER 116: INSURANCE COMPANIES
Section
   
116.01   Imposition of license fee
   
116.02   No license fee on life and health insurance policies
   
116.03   Amount of fee for companies issuing policies other than life insurance
   
116.04   Due date interest
   
116.05   Written breakdown of collections
   
116.06   Refund of premium taxes paid
§ 116.01 IMPOSITION OF LICENSE FEE.
   There is hereby imposed on each insurance company a license fee for the
privilege of engaging in the business of insurance within the corporate limits
of the city, on a calendar-year basis.
(1997 Code, § 116.01)
§ 116.02 NO LICENSE FEE ON LIFE AND HEALTH INSURANCE POLICIES.
   There shall be no license fee imposed upon life and health insurance
policies issued on lives or persons within the corporate limits of the city.
(1997 Code, § 116.02) (Ord. 4-1-86, passed - -1986; Ord. 5-1-90, passed - -
1990)
§ 116.03 AMOUNT OF FEE FOR COMPANIES ISSUING POLICIES OTHER THAN LIFE
INSURANCE.
   The license fee imposed upon each insurance company which issues any
insurance policy which is not a life insurance policy shall be 10% of the
premiums actually collected within each calendar quarter by reason of the
issuance of such policies on risks located within the corporate limits of the
city on those classes of business which such company is authorized to transact,
less all premiums returned to policyholders; however, any license fee or tax
imposed upon premium receipts shall not include premiums received for insuring
employers against liability for personal injuries to their employees, or death
caused thereby, under the provisions of the Workers’ Compensation Act, being
KRS Chapter 342, and shall not include premiums received on policies of group
health insurance provided for state employees under KRS 18A.225(2) and 18A.228,
or premiums received by any state employee benefit fund created pursuant to KRS
Chapter 18A for the purpose of providing health benefits to state employees.
(KRS 91A.080(3), (10)) (1997 Code, § 116.03) (Ord. 4-1-86, passed - -1986; Ord.
5-1-90, passed - -1990)
§ 116.04 DUE DATE INTEREST.
   All license fees imposed by this chapter shall be due no later than 30 days
after the end of each calendar quarter. License fees which are not paid on or
before the due date shall bear interest at the tax interest rate as defined in
KRS 131.010(6).
(KRS 91A.080(8), (9)) (1997 Code, § 116.04) (Ord. 4-1-86, passed - -1986; Ord.
5-1-90, passed - -1990)
§ 116.05 WRITTEN BREAKDOWN OF COLLECTIONS.
   Every insurance company subject to the license fees imposed by this chapter
shall annually, by March 31, furnish the city a written breakdown of all
collections in the preceding calendar year for the following categories of
insurance:
   (A)   Casualty;
   (B)   Automobile;
   (C)   Inland marine; and
   (D)   Fire and allied perils.
(KRS 91A.080(8)(a) - (d)) (1997 Code, § 116.05) (Ord. 4-1-86, passed - -1986;
Ord. 5-1-90, passed - -1990)
§ 116.06 REFUND OF PREMIUM TAXES PAID.
   (A)   No insurance company shall be entitled to a refund for any tax
erroneously paid pursuant to the terms of this chapter or for any payment of
the tax pursuant to this chapter for which it claims a refund for any purpose
unless the request for refund be made to the city in writing within 18 months
of the end of the calendar year in which the tax was paid.
   (B)   In addition, any request for refund shall be accompanied by
documentation supporting the request which shall include at least the
following:
      (1)   The name and address of each and every insured by whom the tax was
paid erroneously or from whom the tax was collected by the insurer;
      (2)   The type of risk insured;
      (3)   The original amount charged by the insurer to the insured, and the
date of payment of same by the insured to the insurance company;
      (4)   If the refund is requested as a result of cancellation of a policy,
a statement must be included with any request for refund showing the date of
cancellation, the reason for the cancellation and a copy of a written proof of
cancellation of the policy either to the insurer from the insured or to the
insured from the insurer, as the case may be; and
      (5)   Any other reasonable information required by the city to verify the
nature and amount of the refund.
(1997 Code, § 116.06) (Ord. 6-2-07, passed 7-11-2007)
CHAPTER 117: MOBILE FOOD VENDING SERVICES
Section
   
117.01   Definitions
   
117.02   Permit required to operate a mobile food vending service
   
117.03   Permit application and fees
   
117.04   Review criteria
   
117.05   Authorized locations and location restrictions for mobile food vending
services
   
117.06   Operating restrictions; nuisance prevention and public health and
safety
   
117.07   Suspension or revocation of permit
   
117.08   Termination or amendment of mobile food vending
   
117.09   Appeals
 
   
117.99   Penalty
§ 117.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   MOBILE FOOD UNIT. A licensed, motorized vehicle permitted by the Northern
Kentucky Health Department for food service, which is temporarily parked in a
location to sell food and/or non-alcoholic beverage items to the general
public.
   MOBILE FOOD VENDING SERVICE BOUNDARIES. All rights-of-way within the Bromley
Z21 zones designated as Downtown Core and Neighborhood Commercial, in
accordance with the zoning map attached to Ordinance 12-2-23 and incorporated
herein by reference, are permissible parking areas for mobile food units.
   MOBILE FOOD VENDOR. An itinerant merchant who operates a mobile food unit
business.
(Ord. 12-2-23, passed 1-10-2024)
§ 117.02 PERMIT REQUIRED TO OPERATE MOBILE FOOD VENDING SERVICE.
   (A)   A mobile food unit may not operate within the city without obtaining a
permit for mobile food vending services.
   (B)   Mobile food unit services on city-owned property shall be limited to
the rights-of-way and defined parking lots described in the mobile food vending
service boundaries. Mobile food unit services on other city-owned property
shall be limited to areas approved on a city special event permit.
   (C)   Mobile food service on private property shall be limited to the zones
permitted in the above designated zones, and shall require written permission
of the property owner.
   (D)   A mobile food vendor may obtain a permit to serve customers, provided
all standards identified in this section are met. If demand for mobile food
units exceeds available spaces within the defined locations, the city will
issue permits on a first-come, first-served basis.
   (E)   The granting of a permit under this section shall not constitute a
property interest or right in any city-owned property, including, but not
limited to, city rights-of-way and sidewalks. Any permit granted herein does
not provide a mobile food vendor or mobile food unit exclusive rights to any
public property or parking space.
(Ord. 12-2-23, passed 1-10-2024) Penalty, see §
117.99
§ 117.03 PERMIT APPLICATION AND FEES.
   (A)   Permitting shall be on a per-mobile-food-unit basis, with each
different mobile food vendor requiring a separate license for each individual
mobile food unit.
   (B)   There shall be no permit application fee.
   (C)   All applications for permits shall be submitted to the Mayor and shall
be accompanied with all submittal requirements on the city’s application form,
including the required certificate of insurance, state and county approvals,
proof of Health Department approval, and permitting fee.
   (D)   Permits are valid for the calendar year the permit is issued, unless
otherwise invalidated, revoked or terminated prior to the end of the term.
Mobile food vendors must reapply (including payment of all applicable fees)
each calendar year.
   (E)   The mobile food vendor must submit proof of a valid insurance policy
through an insurance carrier authorized or eligible to do business in the
commonwealth for any damage to the public right-of-way, and for any damages for
which the city might incur liability for property damage, personal injury or
death arising out of the mobile food vendor’s operations. The minimum liability
limit of the policy shall be $1,000,000. The city shall be listed as an
additional insured as its interests may appear on all certificates of
insurance.
   (F)   By submitting a permit application, the mobile food vendor agrees to
abide by all terms and conditions of this chapter, and agrees that it shall
hold the city, its employees, agents and elected officials harmless, and
indemnify them for any loss, liability, damage and costs and expenses arising
from its operations. The city is not liable for any business loss, property
loss or other damage that may result from use of the permit, or suspension or
revocation of the permit, relocation of the mobile food unit, or the
discontinuance of the practice of permitting such activity. No such mobile food
vendor shall maintain any claim or action against the city and/or its
officials, officers, employees or agents on account of any suspension,
relocation, revocation or discontinuance. The indemnifications required herein
shall include, but not be limited to, injury or death resulting from a slip and
fall of the mobile food vendor’s employees or customers due to grease, debris,
snow or ice in the queue areas of the mobile food vending unit.
(Ord. 12-2-23, passed 1-10-2024)
§ 117.04 REVIEW CRITERIA.
   When considering a permit application, the Mayor shall consider the
following criteria:
   (A)   Impact on local economy;
   (B)   Impact on public health and safety;
   (C)   Impact on transportation and traffic;
   (D)   Completeness of the application and accuracy of information;
   (E)   Compliance with the terms of this chapter, and other city, county,
state and federal laws, ordinances, rules and regulations;
   (F)   Outstanding delinquent accounts or liabilities, if any, to the city;
   (G)   The existing number of mobile food unit permits operating within the
city rights-of-way; and
   (H)   If demand exceeds appropriate and available space.
(Ord. 12-2-23, passed 1-10-2024)
§ 117.05 AUTHORIZED LOCATIONS AND LOCATIONS RESTRICTIONS FOR MOBILE FOOD UNIT
VENDING SERVICES.
   (A)   The mobile food unit may only be parked within the mobile food unit
service boundaries or upon private property in an authorized zone.
   (B)   If located upon private property, the mobile food unit shall comply
with all setback, sight-line and other city zoning code regulations regarding
the location of an accessory structure.
   (C)   In order to preserve sufficient public parking, and to prevent
potential traffic congestion on city streets and sidewalks that may present a
risk to public health and safety and the right to quiet enjoyment of property,
at any one time no more than three mobile food units may be located on a single
street within the mobile food unit service boundaries.
   (D)   Mobile food vendors must be actively engaged in vending operations at
all times while occupying any public property.
   (E)   All mobile food units must be situated to allow at least five feet of
unobstructed space for pedestrians on sidewalks, pedestrian paths, and other
locations intended primarily for pedestrian travel. If any applicable law,
including the Americans with Disability Act, shall require a greater distance,
the greater distance shall apply.
   (F)   Mobile food units may not be parked in a location that prohibits or
restricts access to private property or a public facility. A minimum-five-foot
spacing, measured from the driveway apron, is required from any driveway.
   (G)   Mobile food vendors may not operate in any manner that blocks,
obstructs or restricts the free passage of vehicles or pedestrians in the
lawful use of the sidewalks or highways or ingress or egress to the abutting
property.
   (H)   The mobile food unit must be located at least five feet from any
utility box, utility vault, handicapped ramp or emergency call box. The mobile
food unit must be located at least 15 feet from all fire hydrants.
   (I)   Mobile food units may not be parked upon a sidewalk, in grass, or on
any other unpaved surface unless specifically authorized in an applicable city
permit.
   (J)   Mobile food units shall not park on public rights-of-way during
designated street sweeping times, or when a road is closed, or blocked,
including for maintenance. Mobile food units and vendors shall comply with all
ordinances, laws and regulations, including, but not limited to, those
regarding traffic and parking.
(Ord. 12-2-23, passed 1-10-2024) Penalty, see §
117.99
§ 117.06 OPERATING RESTRICTIONS, NUISANCE PREVENTION AND PUBLIC HEALTH AND
SAFETY.
   A mobile food unit must comply with the following standards at all times
during operation.
   (A)   The mobile food vendor must dispose of all waste associated with the
mobile food unit operation, and must make waste and recycling receptacles
available to its customers. City receptacles may not be utilized. No liquid
waste or grease may be poured into any tree pit, storm drain, gutter pan,
sidewalk or any other public space, or in a manner inconsistent with the city’s
solid waste disposal regulations or nuisance code. Grease cannot be released
into the city’s sanitary sewer system. The mobile food vendor shall make hand
sanitizer available to its customers.
   (B)   Permitted mobile food units may operate every day of the week from the
hours of 6:00 a.m. to 10:00 p.m. The mobile food unit may not operate or park
within the mobile food vending service boundaries before 5:30 a.m., and must
cease operation and leave the permitted parking space by 10:30 p.m.
   (C)   Mobile food vending units shall not exceed 31 feet in length or eight
feet, five inches in width. If parked within a public right-of-way, the mobile
food unit shall comply with all applicable parking regulations, and shall not
occupy more than one marked parking space.
   (D)   The mobile food vendor shall not utilize tables or chairs on public
property, including city sidewalks or streets, in conjunction with the mobile
food unit. All equipment shall be contained within or on the mobile food unit.
This section shall not prevent an approved special event permit from
specifically authorizing the use of tables, chairs and other freestanding
equipment on public property.
   (E)   Mobile food vendors shall not utilize the city’s electrical outlets,
unless specifically authorized by the city in writing.
   (F)   Every mobile food vendor to whom a permit is issued shall, at all
times while engaged in that business, have the applicable permit in his or her
possession, prominently displayed in the front windshield of the vehicle, for
public viewing, and shall produce the same at the request of any city official
or at the request of any individual to whom the mobile food vendor is
exhibiting his or her food or attempting to sell the same.
   (G)   Mobile food vendors must comply with all other applicable ordinances,
laws and regulations, including, but not limited to, applicable ordinances
regulating license fees and taxes,
   (H)   During operation, mobile food vendors shall be required to keep the
vending area adjacent to the mobile food unit free from ice, snow, oil or other
material that may cause a slip-and-fall hazard.
(Ord. 12-2-23, passed 1-10-2024) Penalty, see §
117.99
§ 117.07 SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION OF PERMIT.
   (A)   The Mayor may suspend or revoke any permit issued under this chapter,
or require a mobile food vendor to relocate its mobile food unit, for any of
the following reasons:
      (1)   To allow for construction, maintenance or repair of any street,
curb, gutter, sidewalk, storm drain inlet or any other similar facility;
      (2)   Failure to comply with all terms of this chapter, or other
applicable local, state and federal regulations;
      (3)   Revocation of any required permit to conduct the mobile food
service operations, including revocation by the Northern Kentucky Health
Department or other issuing entity;
      (4)   Excessive noise;
      (5)   Improper disposal of solid waste, grease, oil or other materials
from the mobile food unit;
      (6)   When the desired location of the mobile food unit is closed, or
during special events;
      (7)   In the event this chapter is amended or repealed as to render the
mobile food vendor’s activities inconsistent with the city’s mobile food unit
regulations; and
      (8)   To maintain the comfort, health, safety and welfare of the public.
   (B)   If the Mayor exercises the right to suspend or revoke a permit issued
under this chapter, written notice shall be provided to the mobile food vendor
at the address on file for the permit. The city’s delay or failure to issue a
suspension or revocation of any permit shall not constitute a waiver of this
section. No reimbursement for any portion of the permit fee shall be made in
the event a mobile food unit permit is suspended or revoked, or if a mobile
food unit is required to relocate temporarily or permanently.
(Ord. 12-2-23, passed 1-10-2024)
§ 117.08 TERMINATION OR AMENDMENT OF MOBILE FOOD VENDING.
   The City Council may amend, revise or terminate mobile food service by
ordinance duly enacted. The city shall retain the entire fee paid for the
permit by the permit holder; no refund shall be issued to any mobile food unit
permit issued that is no longer valid because of an amendment, revision or
termination.
(Ord. 12-2-23, passed 1-10-2024)
§ 117.09 APPEALS.
   Any person aggrieved by a decision of the Mayor regarding the denial,
suspension or revocation of a mobile food vending service permit shall have the
right to appeal the decision to the City Council by filing a written notice of
appeal with the City Clerk within ten days after the written decision is
rendered. The appeal shall be heard no later than 30 days after the notice of
appeal is filed. The appeal shall be based on the record, except when the City
Council, in its sole discretion, requests additional evidence from the
interested parties or other witnesses. No appeals will be considered if an
appeal is not filed in a timely manner.
(Ord. 12-2-23, passed 1-10-2024)
§ 117.99 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm or corporation found guilty of violating the provisions of
this chapter shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be fined not
less than $100 or imprisoned for not more than ten days, or both, for the first
offense; and fined not less than $250 or imprisoned for not more than 60 days,
or both, for each offense after the first in the same calendar year, plus
mandatory revocation of license with the second offense.
(Ord. 12-2-23, passed 1-10-2024)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   OFFENSES AGAINST MUNICIPAL REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 130: OFFENSES AGAINST MUNICIPAL REGULATIONS
Section
   
130.01   Curfew for minors
   
130.02   Discharging projectiles
   
130.03   Possession or use of alcoholic beverages by minors prohibited
 
   
130.99   Penalty
§ 130.01 CURFEW FOR MINORS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      ALLOW. Either permit or neglect to refrain or prevent. It requires actual
or constructive knowledge on the part of the parent or guardian, that is, the
parent or guardian must actually know about the child violating this section,
or the circumstances must be such that a reasonable prudent parent or guardian
should have known the child was violating this section.
      MINOR. Any person under the age of 18 or, as may be otherwise phrased,
any person of the age of 17 or under.
      PARENT. Any person having legal custody of a minor:
         (a)   As a natural or adoptive parent;
         (b)   As a legal guardian;
         (c)   As a person who stands “in loco parentis”;
         (d)   Or as a person to whom legal custody has been given by order of
the court.
      REMAIN. To stay behind, to tarry or to stay unnecessarily upon or in any
public assembly, building, place, street or highway.
   (B)   (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person under the age of 18 to be or
remain in or upon any public assembly, building, place, street or highway
within the city at night during the following periods:
         (a)   12:00 a.m. Friday to 5:00 a.m. Saturday;
         (b)   12:00 a.m. Saturday to 5:00 a.m. Sunday;
         (c)   11:00 p.m. Sunday to 5:00 a.m. Monday;
         (d)   11:00 p.m. Monday to 5:00 a.m. Tuesday;
         (e)   11:00 p.m. Tuesday to 5:00 a.m. Wednesday;
         (f)   11:00 p.m. Wednesday to 5:00 a.m. Thursday; and
         (g)   11:00 p.m. Thursday to 5:00 a.m. Friday.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful for any parent or guardian having legal
custody of a minor to allow such minor to be or remain in or upon a public
assembly, building, place, street or highway in the city under circumstances
not constituting an exception as enumerated in division (C) below during the
time periods contained in division (B)(1) above.
   (C)   In the following exceptional cases, a minor in or upon any public
assembly, building, place, street or highway in the city during the nocturnal
hours provided for in division (B) above shall not be considered in violation
of this section:
      (1)   When the minor is accompanied by a parent or guardian;
      (2)   When accompanied by an adult authorized by a parent or guardian of
such minor;
      (3)   When exercising the First Amendment rights protected by the United
States Constitution, such as the free exercise of religion, freedom of speech
and the right of assembly; provided that, written notice signed by the minor
and countersigned by a parent is in the possession of such minor specifying
when, where and in what manner the minor will be exercising such First
Amendment rights;
      (4)   In case of reasonable necessity, but only after such minor’s parent
has communicated to the law enforcement agency under contract with the city the
facts establishing such reasonable necessity;
      (5)   When the minor is on the sidewalk of the place where such minor
resides, or on the sidewalk or either next door neighbor who has not
communicated an objection to a police officer or the law enforcement agency
under contract with the city;
      (6)   When returning home, by a direct route from, and within one hour of
the termination of, a school activity, or any activity or a religious or other
voluntary association; provided that, justification indicating the place and
time of termination of the event can be given to any investigating officer of
the law enforcement agency under contract with the city;
      (7)   When authorized by executive order issued by the Mayor in cases of
reasonable necessity involving more minors than may reasonably be dealt with on
an individual basis. Such regulation should be issued sufficiently in advance
to permit publicity through news media and through other agencies such as the
schools. The regulation shall define the activity, the scope of the use of the
public assembly, building, place, street or highway permitted, and the period
of time involved not to extend more than one hour beyond the time for
termination of the activity, and the reason for finding that such regulation is
reasonably necessary. The Mayor shall notify the law enforcement agency under
contract with the city of the information;
      (8)   When engaged in a business or occupation which the laws of the
state authorize a person under 18 years of age to perform;
      (9)   When the minor is, with parental consent, in a motor vehicle with a
lawfully authorized driver; or
      (10)   When the minor, who is a duly authorized and licensed driver, is
operating a motor vehicle within the city for the purpose of passing through,
by direct route, from one location to another either within or out of the city,
including all minors that may also be within the vehicle.
   (D)   (1)   A police officer upon finding or being notified of any minor in
or upon any public assembly, building, place, street or highway reasonably
believed to be in violation of this section, shall follow the duties of a
police officer set forth in KRS 610.200 through 610.280 which governs the
taking or receiving a child into custody on a charge of committing an offense.
All other provisions of the State Unified Juvenile Code shall apply.
      (2)   A police officer upon finding or being notified of any minor in or
upon any public assembly, building, place, street or highway whose parent is
believed to be in violation of this section shall confront such minor and
request such information as his or her name, age, address of his or her parent
or legal guardian.
(1997 Code, § 130.01) (Ord. 3-2-93, passed 4-3-1993; Ord. 9-1-94, passed 10-1-
1994) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.02 DISCHARGING PROJECTILES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to shoot, fire or discharge any
gun, pistol, rifle, shotgun or any other firearm or any air rifle, BB gun,
pellet gun or similar instrument, or to throw with any slingshot, a leaden
bullet, slug, missile, or any other hard substance anywhere within the limits
of the city.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person 18 years of age or younger within
the limits of the city to have in his or her possession any of the instruments
mentioned in division (A) above.
   (C)   Any instrument found in the violation of this section shall be
confiscated and destroyed in accordance with state law.
(1997 Code, § 130.02) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.03 POSSESSION OR USE OF ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES BY MINORS PROHIBITED.
   No person being the owner, occupant or otherwise having care, custody or
control of any property located in the city shall knowingly allow any person
under the age of 21 years to remain on such property while in the possession of
any alcoholic beverage or while consuming any alcoholic beverage.
(1997 Code, § 130.03) (Ord. 1-1-87, passed 2-3-1987) Penalty, see §
130.99
Cross-reference:
   Alcoholic Beverages, see
Ch. 112
§ 130.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   (1) Violation by a minor of the provisions of §
130.01 of this chapter shall constitute a public offense as contemplated in the
provisions of KRS 635.010 et seq. and a complaint filed against a minor for
such a violation shall be proceeded against in accordance with the provisions
of KRS 635.010, 635.020, 635.060, 635.070, 635.080, 635.085 and 635.100.
      (2)   Any parent or guardian violating §
130.01 of this chapter shall be subject to a fine of no more that $500 or
imprisonment for a period not to exceed six months or both.
   (C)   Whoever violates §
130.02 of this chapter shall be fined not more than $500.
   (D)   Any person found to be in violation of §
130.03 of this chapter shall be fined not more than $300 or imprisoned for not
more than 90 days or both.
(1997 Code, § 130.99) (Ord. 1-1-87, passed 2-3-1987; Ord. 3-2-93, passed 4-3-
1993)
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   BUILDING REGULATIONS; CONSTRUCTION
      
151.   HOUSING CODE
      
152.   RENTAL PROPERTY
      
153.   ZONING
CHAPTER 150: BUILDING REGULATIONS; CONSTRUCTION
Section
Building Code; Construction Regulations
   
150.01   Adoption of Kentucky Building Code; application to single-family
dwellings
   
150.02   Adoption of Standards of Safety; enforcement officer; permits and
fees; appeals
   
150.03   Building permits and fees
   
150.04   Building and Zoning Inspector
   
150.05   Civil liability of Building and Zoning Inspector and other city
employees
   
150.06   Inspection of property and buildings; days and times permitted
International Property Maintenance Code
   
150.20   Title; conflict
   
150.21   Administration
   
150.22   Surveys and inspections; records
   
150.23   Amendments
   
150.24   Violation
 
   
150.99   Penalty
BUILDING CODE; CONSTRUCTION REGULATIONS
§ 150.01 ADOPTION OF KENTUCKY BUILDING CODE; APPLICATION TO SINGLE-FAMILY
DWELLINGS.
   (A)   The Kentucky Building Code, promulgated in 815 KAR 7:120 and the
Kentucky Residential Code promulgated in 815 KAR 7:125 by the Board of Housing,
Buildings and Construction, Commonwealth of Kentucky, are to be enforced by the
city as if set out at length herein. A copy of said Kentucky Building Code and
the Kentucky Residential Code is on file in the office of the County Clerk, and
the City Clerk shall at all times keep a copy of said Building Code for
reference.
   (B) The Council may, when allowed by state law, make deletions and additions
to the codes adopted in division (A) above, which deletions or additions shall
be made by ordinance. Unless additions or deletions to the codes are made, each
of the codes, including all penalty provisions thereof and including any
amendments thereto, shall be in force throughout the city.
   (C) The application of the Kentucky Building Code is hereby extended to all
single-family dwellings in the city.
(1997 Code, § 150.01) (Ord. 3-2-80, passed - -1980; Ord. 10-1-16, passed 11-2-
2016)
§ 150.02 ADOPTION OF STANDARDS OF SAFETY; ENFORCEMENT OFFICER; PERMITS AND
FEES; APPEALS.
   (A)   Adoption of Standards of Safety.
      (1)   The Kentucky Standards of Safety (Fire Prevention Code) as
promulgated in 815 KAR 10:060 by the Commissioner of the Department of Housing,
Buildings and Construction on the advice and recommendation of the state’s Fire
Marshal, is hereby adopted in full as an ordinance of the city.
      (2)   Copies of the code book are available through the Department of
Housing, Buildings and Construction, 1047 U.S. 127 South, Frankfort, Kentucky
40601.
   (B)   Enforcement officer. The Fire Chief and Assistant Fire Chief of the
city shall be designated as the local enforcement agent/agency for the
Standards of Safety as appointed by the Fiscal Court or city.
   (C)   Permits and fees. The requirements for permits and required fees shall
be as provided for in the schedule, per §
150.03 of this chapter.
   (D)   Appeal process. All final decisions of the Fire Code Official of the
city shall be appealable to a local appeals board pursuant to the procedures
adopted by the City Council.
(1997 Code, § 150.02) (Ord. 7-1-91, passed 9-7-1991)
§ 150.03 BUILDING PERMITS AND FEES.
   (A)   The city hereby adopts by reference herein as if fully set forth
herein the Schedule of Fees dated 7-1-2017, attached to the ordinance codified
herein, as recommended by PDS for processing and issuance of zoning permits,
building permits, electric permits, Board of Adjustment hearing fees and fines
for violations of these life safety codes when a violation of them has been
classified as a civil offense.
   (B)   (1)   In order for said schedule of fees to continue to reflect the
increasing inflationary costs of administration of the above programs, said
fees shall, on an annual basis, be adjusted by PDS and reviewed by the City
Treasurer to reflect any increase that would be necessary with the conventional
application of the Consumer Price Index as promulgated by the commonwealth’s
Office for Local Government to these fees.
      (2)   That based upon this calculation said fees shall be increased
annually and this Schedule of Fees shall be so amended by operation of this
provision.
(1997 Code, § 150.03) (Ord. 10-1-16, passed 11-2-2016; Ord. 6-3-18, passed 6-
20-2018)
§ 150.04 BUILDING AND ZONING INSPECTOR.
   (A)   The city’s Building and Zoning Inspector shall be designated as the
local enforcement agent/agency for said Kentucky Building Code.
   (B)   All building code inspections shall be performed by persons certified
by the commonwealth’s Department of Housing, Buildings and Construction.
   (C)   All electrical inspections shall be performed by persons certified by
the commonwealth’s Department of Housing, Buildings and Construction as an
electrical inspector.
(1997 Code, § 150.04) (Ord. 10-1-16, passed 11-2-2016)
§ 150.05 CIVIL LIABILITY OF BUILDING AND ZONING INSPECTOR AND OTHER CITY
EMPLOYEES.
   Any suit brought against the Building and Zoning Inspector or employee
because of any act or omission performed by him or her in the enforcement of
any provisions of this subchapter, shall be defended by the City Attorney until
final termination of the proceedings.
(1997 Code, § 150.05)
§ 150.06 INSPECTION OF PROPERTY AND BUILDINGS; DAYS AND TIMES PERMITTED.
   (A)   Any and all inspections of real property or structures or buildings
thereon within the city for which the Building or Zoning Inspector is
empowered, permitted or authorized to conduct shall be performed during the
hours of 9:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m. on Monday through Friday, unless an emergency
exists or upon agreement with the Building Inspector.
   (B)   All persons with any interest in real estate or buildings or
structures thereon within the city shall, upon reasonable notice, make the
premises available for inspection during those times set forth in this section.
(1997 Code, § 150.06) (Ord. 6-3-93, passed 7-3-1993) Penalty, see §
150.99
INTERNATIONAL PROPERTY MAINTENANCE CODE
§ 150.20 TITLE; CONFLICT.
   (A)   This subchapter shall be known and may be cited as the “Property
Maintenance Code”, and it shall apply to every building, structure or
appurtenance connected or attached to such building or structure within the
city.
   (B)   In any case where a provision of this subchapter is found to be in
conflict with any existing code, ordinance or regulation of the city, the
provision which establishes the higher standard shall prevail, except for the
provisions of the Kentucky Building Code.
(Ord. 12-2-17, passed 1-3-2018)
§ 150.21 ADMINISTRATION.
   The administration of this subchapter shall be the responsibility of the
city’s Building and Zoning Administrator and said Administrator shall be free
from personal liability for acts done in good faith in the performance of
official duties.
(Ord. 12-2-17, passed 1-3-2018)
§ 150.22 SURVEYS AND INSPECTIONS; RECORDS.
   (A)   The Building and Zoning Administrator is authorized to conduct surveys
and make inspections in any area of the community to determine compliance with
this subchapter or other ordinance the Administrator is empowered to enforce,
and shall investigate all complaints, alleging or charging that a violation of
this subchapter exists or that a building or dwelling is unfit or unsafe for
human habitation or other occupancy.
   (B)   The Building and Zoning Administrator is authorized, on identification
and statement of purpose, to enter, inspect, survey and investigate between the
hours of 8:00 a.m. and 5:00 p.m., or at any time if an emergency exists, or if
requested by the owner or occupant, all buildings, dwellings, dwelling units,
rooming units and general premises. The owner or occupant of every building,
dwelling, dwelling unit, rooming unit and general premises or the person in
charge thereof shall give the Building and Zoning Administrator free access to
such building, dwelling, dwelling unit, rooming unit or general premises for
the purpose of such inspection, survey or investigation.
   (C)   The Building and Zoning Administrator shall keep records of all
complaints received, inspection reports, orders and complaints issued, and of
other actions taken and those records shall be available for public inspection.
(Ord. 12-2-17, passed 1-3-2018)
§ 150.23 AMENDMENTS.
   The city hereby adopts the International Code Council, Inc., International
Property Maintenance Code and subsequent amendments thereto, subject to the
changes, deletions, and amendments contained in this subchapter (hereinafter
the “Property Maintenance Code” or “this Code”). The Property Maintenance Code
shall apply to the maintenance of any and all buildings and structures in the
city. The 2018 edition of the Property Maintenance Code, as promulgated by the
International Code Council, Inc., is hereby incorporated by reference, subject
to the changes, deletions and amendments contained in this subchapter. A copy
of the Property Maintenance Code shall be available for inspection and copying
in the office of the City Clerk.
(Ord. 12-2-17, passed 1-3-2018)
§ 150.24 VIOLATION.
   No person, firm, corporation or entity shall permit or maintain any property
in the city to be in violation of the provisions of this Property Maintenance
Code and any person, firm, corporation or entity cited with a violation of any
provision can request a hearing before the city’s Code Enforcement Board.
(Ord. 12-2-17, passed 1-3-2018) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person with any interest in real estate or buildings or structures
thereon within the city who fails to permit inspection after reasonable notice
at the times stated in §
150.06 of this chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor offense and be subject
to a fine not to exceed $500.
(1997 Code, § 150.99) (Ord. 6-3-93, passed 7-3-1993)
CHAPTER 151: HOUSING CODE
Section
General Provisions
   
151.01   Definitions
Housing Standards
   
151.15   Minimum standards for basic equipment and facilities
   
151.16   Minimum standards for light, ventilation and heating
   
151.17   General requirements relating to safe and sanitary maintenance
   
151.18   Minimum space, use and location requirements
   
151.19   Rooming house requirements
   
151.20   Responsibilities of owners and occupants
   
151.21   Designation of unfit dwellings and legal procedure of condemnation
Enforcement
   
151.35   Board of Housing Appeals
   
151.36   Enforcement by Building and Zoning Inspector; Police Authority
   
151.37   Rules and regulations adopted for enforcement of Housing Code
   
151.38   Vacancy of rental property to be reported to Building and Zoning
Inspector
   
151.39   Violations; hearing procedure
   
151.40   Emergency conditions
   
151.41   Violations; enforcement system
 
   
151.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 151.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BASEMENT. A portion of a building located partly underground, but having
less than one-half its clear floor-to-ceiling height below the average grade of
the adjoining ground.
   CELLAR. A portion of a building located partly or wholly underground, and
having half or more than one-half of its clear floor-to-ceiling height below
the average grade of the adjoining ground.
   DWELLING. Any building which is wholly or partly used or intended to be used
for living or sleeping by human occupants. “Temporary housing”, as hereinafter
defined, shall not be regarded as a DWELLING. DWELLING shall be construed as
though followed by the words “or any part thereof”.
   DWELLING UNIT. Any room or group of rooms located within a dwelling and
forming a single habitable unit with facilities which are used or intended to
be used for living, sleeping, cooking and eating. DWELLING UNIT shall be
construed as though followed by the words “or any part thereof”.
   EXTERMINATION. The control and elimination of insects, rodents or other
pests by eliminating their harborage places, by removing or making inaccessible
materials that may serve as food, by poisoning, spraying, fumigating, trapping
or by any other recognized and legal pest elimination methods approved by the
Building and Zoning Inspector.
   GARBAGE. The animal and vegetable waste resulting from the handling,
preparation, cooking and consumption of food.
   HABITABLE ROOM. A room or enclosed floor space used or intended to be used
for living, sleeping, cooking or eating purposes, excluding bathrooms, water
closet compartments, laundries, pantries, foyers or communicating corridors,
closets and storage spaces.
   INFESTATION. The presence, within or around a dwelling of any insects,
rodents or other pests in concentrations that constitute health hazards.
   INSPECTOR. The Building and Zoning Inspector designated to administer this
chapter as prescribed in §
151.35 of this chapter.
   MULTIPLE DWELLING. Any dwelling containing more than two dwelling units.
   OCCUPANT. Any person over one year of age, living, sleeping, cooking, eating
in or having actual possession of a dwelling unit or rooming unit.
   OPERATOR. Any person who has charge, care or control of a building or part
thereof in which units or rooming units are let.
   ORDINARY MINIMUM WINTER CONDITIONS. The temperature of 10°F.
   OWNER. Any person who, alone or jointly or severally with others, his, her
or their agent or agents who shall have legal title to any dwelling or dwelling
unit, with or without accompanying actual possession thereof.
   PLUMBING. All of the following supplied facilities and equipment: gas pipes,
gas-burning equipment, water pipes, garbage disposal units, waste pipes, water
closets, sinks, installed dishwashers, lavatories, bathtubs, shower baths,
installed clothes-washing machines, catch basins, drains, vents and any other
similar supplied fixtures, together with all connections to water, sewer or gas
lines.
   PREMISES. Construed as though followed by the words “or any part thereof”.
   ROOMING HOUSE. Any dwelling, or that part of any dwelling containing one or
more rooming units, in which space is let by the owner or operator to three or
more persons. ROOMING HOUSE shall be construed as though followed by the words
“or any part thereof”.
   ROOMING UNIT. Any room or group of rooms forming a single habitable unit
used or intended to be used for living and sleeping, but not for cooking and
eating purposes. ROOMING UNIT shall be construed as though followed by the
words “or any part thereof”.
   RUBBISH. Combustible and non-combustible waste materials, except garbage;
and the term shall include the residue from the burning of wood, coal, coke and
other combustible material, paper, rags, cartons, boxes, excelsior, rubber,
leather, tree branches, yard trimmings, tin cans, metals, mineral matter, glass
crockery and dust.
   SUPPLIED. Paid for, furnished or provided by or under the control of, the
owner or operator, or tenant.
   TEMPORARY HOUSING. Any tent, trailer or other structure used for human
shelter which is designed to be transportable and which is not attached to the
ground, to another structure, or to any utilities system on the same premises
for more than 30 consecutive days, except in approved mobile home parks.
(1997 Code, § 152.01)
HOUSING STANDARDS
§ 151.15 MINIMUM STANDARDS FOR BASIC EQUIPMENT AND FACILITIES.
   No person shall occupy as owner-occupant or let to another for occupancy any
dwelling or dwelling unit, for the purpose of living, sleeping, cooking or
eating therein, which does not comply with the following requirements.
   (A)   Every dwelling unit shall contain a kitchen sink in good working
condition and properly connected to a water and sewer system approved by the
Building and Zoning Inspector.
   (B)   Every dwelling unit (except as otherwise permitted under division (D)
below) shall contain a room which affords privacy to a person within the room
and which is equipped with a flush water closet and a lavatory basin in good
working condition and properly connected to a water and sewer system approved
by the Building and Zoning Inspector.
   (C)   Every dwelling unit (except as otherwise permitted under division (D)
below) shall contain, within a room which affords privacy to a person within
the room, a bathtub or shower in good working condition and properly connected
to a water and sewer system approved by the Building and Zoning Inspector.
   (D)   The occupants of not more than two dwelling units may share a single
flush water closet, a single lavatory basin and a single bathtub or shower if:
      (1)   Neither of the two dwelling units contains more than two rooms. For
the purposes of this division (D), a kitchenette or an efficiency kitchen with
not more than 60 square feet of floor area shall not be counted as a room.
      (2)   The habitable area of each of the dwelling units shall equal not
more than 250 square feet of floor area.
      (3)   The water closet, lavatory basin and bathtub or shower shall be in
good working condition and properly connected to a water and sewer system
approved by the Building and Zoning Inspector.
   (E)   Every kitchen sink, lavatory basin and bathtub or shower required
under the provisions of divisions (A) through (D) above shall be properly
connected with both hot and cold water lines.
   (F)   Every dwelling unit shall have adequate garbage disposal facilities or
garbage storage containers, the type and location of which are approved by the
Building and Zoning Inspector.
   (G)   Every dwelling unit shall be supplied with adequate rubbish storage
facilities, the type and location of which are approved by the Building and
Zoning Inspector.
   (H)   (1)   Every dwelling shall have supplied water-heating facilities
which are properly installed, are maintained in safe and good working
condition, are properly connected with the hot water lines required under the
provisions of division (E) above, and are capable of heating water to such a
temperature as to permit an adequate amount of water to be drawn at every
required kitchen sink, lavatory basin, bathtub or shower at a temperature of
not less than 120°F.
      (2)   Such supplied water-heating facilities shall be capable of meeting
the requirements of this division (H) at all seasons of the year.
   (I)   Every dwelling unit shall have safe, unobstructed means of egress
leading to safe and open space at ground level, as required by the laws of the
state.
(1997 Code, § 152.10) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.16 MINIMUM STANDARDS FOR LIGHT, VENTILATION AND HEATING.
   No person shall occupy as owner-occupant or let to another for occupancy any
dwelling or dwelling unit, for the purpose of living therein, which does not
comply with the following requirements.
   (A)   Every habitable room shall have at least one window or skylight facing
directly to the outdoors. The minimum total window area, measured between
stops, for every habitable room shall be 10% of the floor area of the room.
Whenever walls or other portions of structures face a window of any such room
and the light-obstruction structures are located less than three feet from the
window and extend to a level above that of the ceiling of the room, such a
window shall not be deemed to face directly to the outdoors and shall not be
included as contributing to the required minimum total window area. Whenever
the only window in a room is a skylight-type window in the top of such room,
the total window area of such skylight shall equal at least 15% of the total
floor area of the room.
   (B)   Every habitable room shall have at least one window or skylight which
can be easily opened, or such other device as will adequately ventilate the
room. The total of openable window area in every habitable room shall be equal
to at least 45% of the minimum window area size or minimum skylight-type size,
as required in division (A) above, except where there is supplied some other
device affording adequate ventilation and approved by the Building and Zoning
Inspector.
   (C)   Every bathroom and water closet compartment shall comply with the
light and ventilation requirements for habitable rooms contained in divisions
(A) and (B) above; except that, no window or skylight shall be required in
adequately ventilated bathrooms and water closet compartments equipped with a
ventilation system which is kept in continuous operation during periods of use
and approved by the Building and Zoning Inspector. Exception may be made when
it is determined that such spaces that existed at the time of adoption of this
chapter do not constitute hazards of health.
   (D)   Every habitable room of the dwelling shall contain at least two
separate floor or wall-type electric convenience outlets, or one such
convenience outlet and one supplied ceiling-type electric light fixture; and
every water closet compartment, bathroom, laundry room, furnace room and public
hall shall contain at least one supplied ceiling or wall-type electric light
fixture. Every such outlet and fixture shall be properly installed, shall be
maintained in good and safe working condition and shall be connected to the
source of electric power in a safe manner; provided, the dwelling is within 300
feet of an available power line.
   (E)   Every dwelling shall have heating facilities which are properly
installed, are maintained in safe and good working condition and are capable of
safely and adequately heating all habitable rooms, bathrooms and water closet
compartments in every dwelling unit located therein to a temperature of at
least 70°F, at a distance three feet above floor level, when the outside
temperature is -5°F.
   (F)   Every public hall and stairway in structures devoted solely to
dwelling occupancy and containing not more than four dwelling units may be
supplied with conveniently located light switches, controlling an adequate
lighting system which may be turned on when needed, instead of full-time light.
   (G)   During that portion of each year when the Inspector deems it necessary
for protection against mosquitoes, flies and other insects, every door opening
directly from a dwelling unit to outdoor space shall have supplied screens and
a self-closing device; and every window or other device with openings to
outdoor space, used or intended to be used for ventilation, shall likewise be
supplied with screens.
   (H)   Every basement or cellar window used or intended to be used for
ventilation, and every other opening to a basement which might provide an entry
for rodents, shall be supplied with a screen or such other device as will
effectively prevent their entrance.
(1997 Code, § 152.11) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.17 GENERAL REQUIREMENTS RELATING TO SAFE AND SANITARY MAINTENANCE.
   No person shall occupy as owner-occupant or let to another for occupancy any
dwelling or dwelling unit, for the purpose of living therein, which does not
comply with the following requirements.
   (A)   Every foundation, floor, wall, ceiling and roof shall be reasonably
weather-tight, water-tight and rodent-proof, shall be capable of affording
privacy and shall be kept in good repair.
   (B)   Every window, exterior door and easement hatchway shall be reasonably
weather-tight, water-tight and rodent-proof and shall be kept in sound working
condition and good repair.
   (C)   Every inside and outside stair, every porch and every appurtenance
thereto shall be so constructed as to be safe to use and capable of supporting
the load that normal use may cause to be placed thereon and shall be kept in
sound condition and good repair.
   (D)   Every plumbing fixture and water and waste pipe shall be properly
installed and maintained in good sanitary working condition, free from defects,
leaks and obstructions.
   (E)   Every water closet compartment floor surface and the bathroom floor
surface shall be constructed and maintained so as to be reasonably impervious
to water and so as to permit such floor to be easily kept in a clean and
sanitary condition.
   (F)   Every supplied facility, piece of equipment or utility which is
required under this chapter shall be so constructed or installed that it will
function safely and effectively and shall be maintained in satisfactory working
condition.
   (G)   No owner, operator or occupant shall cause any service, facility,
equipment or utility which is required under this chapter to be removed from or
shut off from or discontinued for an occupied dwelling let or occupied by him
or her, except for such temporary interruption as may be necessary while actual
repairs or alterations are in process, or during temporary emergencies, when
discontinuance of service is approved by the Building and Zoning Inspector.
(1997 Code, § 152.12) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.18 MINIMUM SPACE, USE AND LOCATION REQUIREMENTS.
   No person shall occupy or let to another for occupancy any dwelling or
dwelling unit, for the purpose of living therein, which does not comply with
the following requirements.
   (A)   Every dwelling unit shall contain at least 150 square feet of floor
space for the first occupant thereof and at least 100 additional square feet of
floor space for every additional occupant thereof, the floor space to be
calculated on the basis of total habitable room area.
   (B)   In every dwelling unit of two or more rooms, every room occupied for
sleeping purposes by one occupant shall contain at least 70 square feet of
floor space, and every room occupied for sleeping purposes by more than one
occupant shall contain at least 30 square feet of floor space for each occupant
thereof.
   (C)   No dwelling or dwelling unit containing two or more sleeping rooms
shall have such room arrangements that access to a bathroom or water closet
compartment intended for use by occupants of more than one sleeping room can be
had only by going through another sleeping room; no room arrangements shall be
such that access to a sleeping room can be had only by going through another
sleeping room or a bathroom or water closet compartment.
   (D)   At least one-half of the floor area of every habitable room shall have
a ceiling height of at least seven feet; and the floor area of that part of any
room where the ceiling height is less than five feet shall not be considered as
part of the floor area in computing the total floor area of the room for the
purpose of determining the maximum permissible occupancy thereof.
   (E)   No cellar space shall be used as a habitable room or dwelling unit.
   (F)   No basement space shall be used as a habitable room or dwelling unit
unless:
      (1)   The floor and walls are impervious to leakage of underground and
surface run-off water and are insulated against dampness;
      (2)   The total of window area in each room is equal to at least the
minimum window area sizes as required in §
151.16(A) of this chapter;
      (3)   Such required minimum window area is located entirely above the
grade of the ground adjoining such window area; and
      (4)   The total of openable window area in each room is equal to at least
the minimum as required under §
151.16(B) of this chapter, except where there is supplied some other device
affording adequate ventilation and approved by the Building and Zoning
Inspector.
(1997 Code, § 152.13) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.19 ROOMING HOUSE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   No person shall operate a rooming house, or shall occupy or let to
another for occupancy any rooming unit in any rooming house, except in
compliance with the provisions of every section of this chapter, except the
provisions of §§
151.15 and
151.20 of this chapter.
   (B)   No person shall operate a rooming house unless he or she holds a valid
rooming house permit issued by the Building and Zoning Inspector in the name of
the operator and for the specific dwelling or dwelling unit. The operator shall
apply to the Building and Zoning Inspector for such permit which shall be
issued upon compliance by the operator with the applicable provisions of this
chapter and of any rules and regulations adopted pursuant thereto. This permit
shall be displayed in a conspicuous place within the rooming house, at all
times. No such permit shall be transferable. Every person holding such permit
shall give notice in writing to the Building and Zoning Inspector within 24
hours after having sold, transferred, given away or otherwise disposed of
ownership of, interest in or control of any rooming house. The notice shall
include the name and address of the person succeeding to the ownership or
control of the rooming house. Every rooming house permit shall expire at the
end of two years following its date of issuance, unless sooner suspended or
revoked as hereinafter provided.
   (C)   Any person whose application for a permit to operate a rooming house
has been denied may request and shall be granted a hearing on the matter before
the City Council, under the procedure provided by §
151.39 of this chapter.
   (D)   Whenever upon inspection of any rooming house the Building and Zoning
Inspector finds that conditions or practices exist which are in violation of
any provision of this chapter or of any rule or regulation adopted pursuant
thereto, the Inspector shall give notice in writing to the operator of the
rooming house that unless such conditions or practices are corrected within a
60-day period, the operator’s rooming house permit will be suspended. At the
end of such period, the Building and Zoning Inspector shall re-inspect the
rooming house, and if he or she finds that such conditions or practices have
not been corrected, he or she shall give notice in writing to the operator that
the latter’s permit has been suspended. Upon receipt of notice of suspension,
the operator shall immediately cease operation of the rooming house, and no
person shall occupy for sleeping or living purposes any rooming unit therein
until a new permit is issued.
   (E)   Any person whose permit to operate a rooming house has been suspended,
or who has received notice from the Building and Zoning Inspector that his or
her permit is to be suspended unless existing conditions or practices at his or
her rooming house are corrected, may request and shall be granted a hearing on
the matter before the City Council under the procedure provided by §
151.39 of this chapter; provided that, if no petition for such hearing is filed
within ten days following the day on which the permit was suspended, the permit
shall be deemed to have been automatically revoked.
   (F)   At least one flush water closet, lavatory basin and bathtub or shower,
properly connected to a water and sewer system approved by the Inspector and in
good working condition, shall be supplied for each eight persons or fraction
thereof, residing within a rooming house, including members of the operator’s
family whenever they share the use of the facilities; provided that, in a
rooming house where rooms are let only to males, flush urinals may be
substituted for not more than one-half of the required number of water closets.
All such facilities shall be so located within the dwelling as to be reasonably
accessible from a common hall or passageway to all persons sharing the
facilities. Every lavatory basin and bathtub or shower shall be supplied with
hot water at all times.
   (G)   The operator of every rooming house shall change supplied bed linen
and towels therein at least once each week, and prior to the letting of any
room to any occupant. The operator shall be responsible for the maintenance of
all supplied bedding in a clean and sanitary manner.
   (H)   Every room occupied for sleeping purposes by one person shall contain
at least 70 square feet of floor space, and every room occupied for sleeping
purposes by more than one person shall contain at least 30 square feet of floor
space for each occupant thereof.
   (I)   Every rooming unit shall have safe, unobstructed means of egress
leading to safe and open space at ground level, as required by the laws of the
state.
   (J)   The operator of every rooming house shall be responsible for the
sanitary maintenance of all walls, floors and ceilings and for maintenance of a
sanitary condition in every other part of the rooming house; and he or she
shall be further responsible for the sanitary maintenance of the entire
premises where the entire structure or building is leased or occupied by the
operator.
   (K)   Every provision of this chapter which applies to rooming houses shall
also apply to hotels, except to the extent that any such provisions may be
found in conflict with the laws of the state or with the lawful regulations of
any state board or agency.
(1997 Code, § 152.14) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.20 RESPONSIBILITIES OF OWNERS AND OCCUPANTS.
   (A)   Every owner of a dwelling containing two or more dwelling units shall
be responsible for maintaining in a clean and sanitary condition, the shared or
public areas of the dwelling and premises thereof.
   (B)   Every occupant of a dwelling or dwelling unit shall keep in a clean
and sanitary condition that part of the dwelling unit, and premises thereof
which he or she occupies and controls.
   (C)   Every occupant of a dwelling or dwelling unit shall dispose of all his
or her rubbish in a clean and sanitary manner by placing it in the rubbish
containers required by §
151.15(G) of this chapter.
   (D)   Every occupant of a dwelling or dwelling unit shall dispose of all his
or her garbage and any other organic waste which might provide food for
rodents, in a clean and sanitary manner, by placing it in the garbage disposal
facilities or garbage storage containers required by §
151.15(G) of this chapter. It shall be the responsibility of the occupant to
supply such containers.
   (E)   Every occupant of a dwe1ling or dwelling unit shall be responsible for
handling all screens and double or storm doors and windows whenever the same
are required under the provisions of this chapter or of any rule or regulation
adopted pursuant thereto, except where the owner has agreed to supply such
service.
   (F)   Every occupant of a dwelling containing a single dwelling unit shall
be responsible for the extermination of any insects, rodents or other pests
therein or on the premises; and every occupant of a dwelling unit in a dwelling
containing more than one dwelling unit shall be responsible for such
extermination whenever his or her dwelling unit is the only one infested.
Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this division (F), whenever
infestation is caused by failure of the owner to maintain a dwelling in a
rodent-proof or reasonably insect-proof condition, extermination shall be the
responsibility of the owner. Whenever infestation exists in two or more of the
dwelling units in any dwelling, or in the shared or public parts of any
dwelling containing two or more dwelling units, extermination thereof shall be
the responsibility of the owner.
   (G)   Every occupant of a dwelling unit shall keep all plumbing fixtures
therein in a clean and sanitary condition and shall be responsible for the
exercise of reasonable care in the proper use and operation thereof.
(1997 Code, § 152.15) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.21 DESIGNATION OF UNFIT DWELLING AND LEGAL PROCEDURE OF CONDEMNATION.
   The designation of dwellings or dwelling units as unfit for human habitation
and the procedure for the condemnation and placarding of such unfit dwellings
or dwelling units shall be carried out in compliance with the following
requirements.
   (A)   Any dwelling or dwelling unit which shall be found to have any of the
following defects shall be condemned as unfit for human habitation and shall be
so designated and placarded by the health officer:
      (1)   One which is so damaged, decayed, dilapidated, unsanitary, unsafe
or vermin-infested that it creates a serious hazard to the public;
      (2)   One which lacks illumination, ventilation or sanitation facilities
adequate to protect the health or safety of the occupants or of the public; and
      (3)   One which because of its general condition or location is
unsanitary, or otherwise dangerous, to the health or safety of the occupants or
of the public.
   (B)   Any dwelling or dwelling unit condemned as unfit for human habitation
and so designated and placarded by the Building and Zoning Inspector shall be
vacated within 60 days from date of placarding.
   (C)   No dwelling or dwelling unit which has been condemned and placarded as
unfit for human habitation shall again be used for human habitation until
written approval is secured from, and such placard is removed by the Building
and Zoning Inspector. The Building and Zoning Inspector shall remove such
placard whenever the defect or defects upon which the condemnation and
placarding action were based have been eliminated.
   (D)   No person shall deface or remove the placard from any dwelling or
dwelling unit which has been condemned as unfit for human habitation and
placarded as such, except as provided in division (C) above.
   (E)   Any person affected by any notice or order relating to the condemning
and placarding of a dwelling or dwelling unit as unfit for human habitation may
request and shall be granted a hearing on the matter before the City Council,
under the procedure set forth in §
151.39 of this chapter.
(1997 Code, § 152.16) Penalty, see §
151.99
ENFORCEMENT
§ 151.35 BOARD OF HOUSING APPEALS.
   (A)   In accordance with KRS 198B.070, a Board of Housing Appeals is hereby
established consisting of five technically qualified persons with professional
experience relating to the building industry. No more than two members may be
employees of the city.
   (B)   The Board of Housing Appeals is designated as the agency of the city
to which decisions of the Building and Zoning Inspector may be appealed.
   (C)   Appeals from the decisions of the Building and Zoning Inspector shall
be made as described in §
151.39 of this chapter.
   (D)   Any person aggrieved by any decision rendered by the Board of Housing
Appeals may appeal such decision to any court of competent jurisdiction.
(1997 Code, § 152.25)
§ 151.36 ENFORCEMENT BY BUILDING AND ZONING INSPECTOR; POLICE AUTHORITY.
   (A)   The Building and Zoning Inspector is responsible for the enforcement
of this chapter.
   (B)   The Building and Zoning Inspector is hereby authorized and directed to
make inspections to determine the condition of dwellings, dwelling units,
rooming units and premises located within the city when there is any evidence
that violation of this chapter exists, in order that he may perform his or her
duty of safeguarding the health and safety of the occupants of dwellings and of
the general public. For the purpose of making such inspections, the Building
and Zoning Inspector is hereby authorized to enter, examine and survey at all
reasonable times all dwellings, dwelling units, rooming units and premises.
      (1)   The owner or occupant of every dwelling, dwelling unit and rooming
unit, or the person in charge thereof, shall give the Building and Zoning
Inspector free access to such dwelling, dwelling unit or rooming unit, and its
premises, at all reasonable times for the purpose of such inspection,
examination and survey.
      (2)   Every occupant of a dwelling or dwelling unit shall give the owner
thereof, or his or her agent or employee, access to any part of such dwelling
or dwelling unit or its premises at all reasonable times for the purpose of
making such repairs or alterations as are necessary to effect compliance with
the provisions of this chapter or with any lawful rule or regulation adopted or
any lawful order issued pursuant to the provisions of this chapter.
   (C)   In addition to enforcement by the Building Inspector, violations of
the provisions of the Housing Code which are in plan view of the general public
may be enforced by any member of the law enforcement agency under contract with
the city, who may order any owner or occupant to remedy any such violation
within a reasonable period of time. The provisions of §
151.39 of this chapter shall be followed by the Police Authority in enforcement
of this section.
(1997 Code, § 152.26) (Ord. 11-4-88, passed 12-6-1988)
§ 151.37 RULES AND REGULATIONS ADOPTED FOR ENFORCEMENT OF HOUSING CODE.
   The Building and Zoning Inspector may recommend to the Mayor the adoption of
such written rules and regulations as he or she may deem necessary for the
proper enforcement of the provisions of this chapter. Any rules and regulations
concerning the enforcement of the provisions of this chapter which may be
promulgated by the Mayor shall be subject to the approval of the City Council
in accordance with KRS 83A.130(4) and shall only be adopted after a public
hearing has been held in accordance with the laws governing the conduct of
public hearings by the City Council. Such rules and regulations shall not be in
conflict with the provisions of this chapter. A certified copy of all rules and
regulations which may be adopted pursuant to this section shall be filed with
the City Clerk. Such rules and regulations shall have the same force and effect
as the provisions of this chapter, and the penalty for violation thereof shall
be the same as the penalty for violation of the provisions of this chapter, as
provided in §
151.99 of this chapter.
(1997 Code, § 152.27)
§ 151.38 VACANCY OF RENTAL PROPERTY TO BE REPORTED TO BUILDING AND ZONING
INSPECTOR.
   (A)   It is hereby mandatory that upon rental property located within the
corporate limits of the city becoming vacant, it is the duty, charge and
responsibility under penalty of §
151.99 of this chapter for the owner of the rental property to duly and timely
notify the Building and Zoning Inspector of the vacancy so that an inspection
in conformity with §
151.36 of this chapter may be made by him or her. There shall be a fee assessed
for the inspection in conformity with division (B) below to be paid before any
permit may be issued.
   (B)   The owner shall pay into the General Fund of the city a fee as
determined by the Building and Zoning Inspector. The fee shall be $5 per
dwelling unit. Fees shall be paid before any permit may be issued.
(1997 Code, § 152.28)
§ 151.39 VIOLATIONS; HEARING PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Whenever the Building and Zoning Inspector determines that there is
evidence indicating that there has been a violation of any provision of this
chapter or of any rule or regulation adopted pursuant thereto, he or she shall
give notice of such alleged violation to the person or persons responsible
therefor, as hereinafter provided. Such notice shall:
      (1)   Be put in writing;
      (2)   Include a statement of the reasons why it is being issued;
      (3)   Allow a reasonable time for the performance of any act it requires;
      (4)   Be served upon the owner or his or her agent, or the occupant, as
the case may require. Such notice shall be deemed to be properly served upon
such owner, agent or occupant, if a copy thereof is served upon him or her
personally; if a copy thereof is sent by registered mail to his or her last
known address; or if a copy thereof is posted in a conspicuous place in or
about the dwelling affected by the notice; and
      (5)   Contain specific remedial action which, if taken, will effect
compliance with the provisions of this chapter and with rules and regulations
adopted pursuant thereto.
   (B)   Any person affected by any notice which has been issued in connection
with the enforcement of any provision of this chapter or any rule or regulation
adopted pursuant thereto, may request and shall be granted a hearing on the
matter before the Board of Housing Appeals, provided that person files with the
Board a written petition requesting such hearing and setting forth a brief
statement of the grounds therefor within ten days after the day the notice was
served. Upon receipt of such petition, the Board shall set a time and place for
the hearing and shall give the petitioner written notice thereof. At the
hearing, the petitioner shall be given an opportunity to be heard and to show
why the notice should be modified or withdrawn. The hearing shall be commenced
not later than 30 days after the day on which the petition was filed; provided
that, upon application of the petitioner, the Board may postpone the date of
the hearing for a reasonable time beyond the 30-day period, if, in its
judgment, the petitioner has submitted a good and sufficient reason for such
postponement.
   (C)   After the hearing, the Building and Zoning Inspector shall sustain,
modify or withdraw the notice, depending upon the Board’s findings as to
whether the provisions of this chapter and of the rules and regulations adopted
pursuant thereto have been complied with. If the Building and Zoning Inspector
sustains or modifies the notice, it shall be deemed to be an order. Any notice
served pursuant to division (A) above shall automatically become an order if a
written petition for a hearing is not filed with the Board within ten days
after the notice is served. After a hearing in the case of any notice
suspending any permit required by this chapter or by any rule or regulation
adopted pursuant thereto when the notice has been sustained by the Board, the
permit shall be deemed to have been revoked. Any such permit which has been
suspended by a notice shall be deemed automatically revoked if a petition for
hearing is not filed in the office of the Board within ten days after the
notice is served.
   (D)   The proceedings at such hearing, including the findings and decisions
of the Board, shall be summarized, reduced to writing and entered as a matter
of public record in the office of the Board. The record shall also include a
copy of every notice or order issued in connection with the matter. Any person
aggrieved by the decision of the Board may seek relief therefrom in any court
of competent jurisdiction, as provided by the laws of the state.
(1997 Code, § 152.29)
§ 151.40 EMERGENCY CONDITIONS.
   (A)   Whenever the Building and Zoning Inspector finds that an emergency
exists which requires immediate action to protect the public health, he or she
may, without notice or hearing, issue an order reciting the existence of such
an emergency and requiring that action be taken as he or she deems necessary to
meet the emergency.
   (B)   Notwithstanding the other provisions of this chapter, the order shall
be effective immediately.
   (C)   Any person to whom such an order is directed shall comply therewith
immediately, but upon petition to the Building and Zoning Inspector, shall be
afforded a hearing in accordance with §
151.39 of this chapter as soon as possible. After the hearing, depending upon
its findings as to whether the provisions of this chapter and of the rules and
regulations adopted pursuant thereto have been complied with, the order shall
continue in effect, be modified or be revoked.
(1997 Code, § 152.30)
§ 151.41 VIOLATIONS; ENFORCEMENT SYSTEM.
   (A)   In arriving at realistic penalties for violations of provisions
contained in this chapter, the primary objective has been to establish them as
part of the simplest possible enforcement system.
   (B)   The system has three features.
      (1)   A mail-in ticket which:
         (a)   Identifies the violator;
         (b)   Lists and identifies violations of the ordinance provisions by
section numbers;
         (c)   States the prescribed fine beside each violation listed;
         (d)   Provides simple instructions on where the ticket is to be mailed
with a check or money order in the amount of the stipulated fine; and
         (e)   States a simple procedure to follow if the violator elects to
appear in court to plead his or her case rather than mail in the fine.
      (2)   Use of the above ticket by all department and city personnel
authorized to enforce this section; and
      (3)   Use for particularly flagrant violations (those nuisances which are
dangerous or unhealthful or which are detrimental to the health, safety and
welfare of the citizens and visitors of the city). This would be in the form of
a direct summons to court, with penalty range substantially above those on the
mail-in ticket.
(1997 Code, § 152.98) (Ord. 6-1-92, passed 7-14-1992)
§ 151.99 PENALTY.
   The schedule of penalties for violations of this chapter as follows.
   (A)   Whoever violates any of the provisions of this chapter shall be guilty
of a violation and shall be punished by a fine of $25 for the first offense,
$50 for the second offense and $75 for each subsequent offense.
   (B)   The fine provided in division (A) above shall be doubled if not paid
within five business days after the issuance of a citation. If the fine is not
paid within ten business days after the issuance of a citation, the violator
may be cited to appear before the District Court and all court costs shall be
borne by the violator in addition to and fine imposed by the court.
   (C)   Any person found guilty of violating any provision of this chapter in
district court shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be fined not less
than $50, nor more than $500, for each offense. Each day that a violation
continues shall constitute a separate offense.
(1997 Code, § 152.99) (Ord. 1988-21, passed 7-11-1988; Ord. 1991-7, passed 6-
24-1991; Ord. 6-1-92, passed 7-14-1992)
CHAPTER 152: RENTAL PROPERTY
Section
General Provisions
   
152.01   Landlord-Tenant Act adopted by reference
Owning and Leasing of Property; Licensing
   
152.15   Definitions
   
152.16   License required
   
152.17   Expiration date
   
152.18   Issuance and renewal; procedures
   
152.19   Display and transfer of license
   
152.20   Violations; suspension of license; hearing
   
152.21   Reinstatement of license
   
152.22   Date of compliance; penalty for failure to comply
   
152.23   Use of proceeds
 
   
152.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 152.01 LANDLORD-TENANT ACT ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   (A)   Pursuant to KRS 383.500, the provisions of KRS 383.505 through
383.705, inclusive, be and are hereby enacted as the Landlord-Tenant Act to be
applied to the rental, letting or leasing of any real property in the confines
of the city, and the provisions of the sections of the state’s revised statutes
be and are hereby incorporated by reference herein as if fully set forth.
   (B)   A copy of the Landlord-Tenant Act is attached to Ord. 7-1-94.
(1997 Code, § 153.01) (Ord. 7-1-94, passed 8-6-1994)
OWNING AND LEASING PROPERTY; LICENSING
§ 152.15 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUILDING CODE. The Building Code and Blight Ordinance of the city and all
amendments thereto.
   BUILDING INSPECTOR. The Building Inspector of the city or any of his or her
designees, including, but not limited to, the Building Inspector, Housing
Inspector, Fire Inspector or all other persons authorized by statute or city
ordinance to enforce the city’s Zoning, Building, Housing or Fire Codes.
   DWELLING UNIT. Any enclosed space wholly or partly used for or intended to
be used for living and sleeping, whether or not cooking and eating facilities
are provided.
   FIRE CODE. The Fire Code presently in effect for the city as provided for by
city ordinance or state statute.
   HOUSING CODE. The ordinances of the city pertaining to the maintenance and
use of housing in the city and all amendments thereto.
   OWNER. Any person who, alone or jointly or severally with others, as of
January 1 of each calendar year, beginning with 1-1-1990:
      (1)   Shall have legal title to any premises, building or dwelling unit
with or without accompanying actual possession thereof; or
      (2)   Shall have charge, care or control of any premises, dwelling unit,
as owner or agent of the owner, or any executor, administrator, trustee or
guardian of the estate of the owner. Any such person thus representing the
actual OWNER shall be bound to comply with the provisions of this chapter and
of the rules and regulations adopted pursuant hereto, to the same extent as if
you were the owner.
   ZONING CODE. The zoning ordinance of the city and all amendments thereto.
(1997 Code, § 153.15) (Ord. 3-1-90, passed 4-7-1990)
§ 152.16 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   No person shall rent or offer for rent a dwelling unit unless the dwelling
unit is covered by a current, unrevoked license, as provided in this chapter.
In addition, no person shall permit a non-owner of any residential property to
reside in any dwelling unit therein without the license required by this
section regardless of whether the owner receives rent or remuneration for the
premises, unless the owner also resides in the premises.
(1997 Code, § 153.16) (Ord. 3-1-90, passed 4-7-1990; Ord. 4-1-21, passed 5-5-
2021) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.17 EXPIRATION DATE.
   Every such license shall expire on the last day of February each year.
(1997 Code, § 153.17) (Ord. 3-1-90, passed 4-7-1990; Ord. 6-2-13, passed 7-3-
2013; Ord. 10-2-19, passed 11-6-2019)
§ 152.18 ISSUANCE AND RENEWAL; PROCEDURES.
   (A)   The City Clerk shall issue licenses and renewals in the names of the
applicant owners of residential rental property.
   (B)   No license shall be issued or renewed unless the applicant owner has
first made application therefor on an application form provided by the city.
The form shall contain a blank for the owner to indicate the most convenient
times for inspections, and the application shall be signed by the owner, and
shall contain the full text of §
151.38 of this code of ordinances.
   (C)   No license shall be issued or renewed unless the completed application
form is accompanied by the payment of a license fee in the amount of $100 per
dwelling unit.
   (D)   No license shall be issued or renewed for an applicant not residing in
the county, unless such applicant designates in writing to the Chief of Police
the name and address of his or her agent in the county for the receipt of any
notices regarding any violation of the city or the commonwealth with reference
to the maintenance, use, ownership and possession of real property, and for
service of process pursuant to this chapter.
   (E)   No license shall be issued or renewed for a resident applicant unless
such applicant has first designated an agent for the receipt of notices of
violations of the provisions of this chapter, or any other ordinance of the
city, or statute or requirement of the commonwealth, with reference to the
ownership, maintenance, use and possession of real estate, and for service of
process pursuant to this chapter, when the applicant is absent from the city
for 30 or more days. Such a designation shall be made in writing and shall
accompany each application form. The applicant may designate any person
residing in the county, or having an office in the county as his or her agent
for this purpose.
(1997 Code, § 153.18)
   (F)   No license shall be issued or renewed for any rental units upon
property which have delinquent real estate ad valorem taxes due and unpaid to
the city after the due date for any year.
   (G)   No license shall be issued or renewed for any rental units upon
property which have City Code Enforcement Board fines or liens due and unpaid
to the city.
(Ord. 3-1-90, passed 4-7-1990; Ord. 10-1-93, passed 11-6-1993; Ord. 6-1-08,
passed 7-2-2008; Ord. 3-2-12, passed 4-4-2012; Ord. 3-1-13, passed 4-3-2013;
Ord. 7-1-13, passed 8-7-2013; Ord. 6-2-18, passed 6-20-2018) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.19 DISPLAY AND TRANSFER OF LICENSE.
   Each license shall be displayed in a conspicuous place within the common
ways of the dwelling unit or any other conspicuous place thereon. No license
shall be transferable to another person or to another residential rental
property/unit. Every person holding a license shall give notice in writing to
the Chief of Police within seven days after having transferred or otherwise
disposed of the legal control of any licensed dwelling. Such notice shall
include the name and address of the person succeeding to the ownership thereof.
(1997 Code, § 153.19) (Ord. 3-1-90, passed 4-7-1990) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.20 VIOLATIONS; SUSPENSION OF LICENSE; HEARING.
   (A)   Whenever, upon inspection of the licensed dwelling, the Building
Inspector finds that conditions or practices exist which are in violation of
the Zoning Code, Housing Code, Building Code or Fire Code of the city or
commonwealth, the Building Inspector may serve the owner or his or her designee
with notice of such violation in the manner provided in this chapter. Such
notice shall state that unless the violations cited are corrected within a
reasonable time, the license may be suspended.
   (B)   At the end of the time allowed for correction of any violation cited,
the Building Inspector shall reinspect the dwelling, and if he or she
determines that conditions have not been corrected, the Building Inspector
shall notify the Chief of Police in writing for an order to issue to suspend
the license. The Building Inspector shall notify the owner or his or her
designee at the time he or she notifies the Chief of Police. The notice shall
state that the owner or his or her designee may request a hearing in writing
within ten days.
   (C)   (1)   Any person whose license to rent a dwelling unit has been
suspended and who has been notified as provided in this chapter shall be
entitled to a hearing in the manner provided by §
151.39(B), (C), (D) of this code of ordinances.
      (2)   Any license which has been previously suspended pursuant to this
chapter for failure to correct violations will be considered in effect until
final action is taken by the Hearing Board.
(1997 Code, § 153.20) (Ord. 3-1-90, passed 4-7-1990)
§ 152.21 REINSTATEMENT OF LICENSE.
   If, upon reinspection, the Building Inspector finds that the dwelling in
connection with which the notice was issued is now in compliance with the
applicable code or statute, he or she shall immediately request the Chief of
Police in writing to reinstate the license.
(1997 Code, § 153.21) (Ord. 3-1-90, passed 4-7-1990)
§ 152.22 DATE OF COMPLIANCE; PENALTY FOR FAILURE TO COMPLY.
   (A)   Date of compliance. All persons owning residential rental property
must obtain the license required by this chapter no later than March 1 of each
year.
   (B)   Penalty for failure to comply. Any person who fails to obtain the
license by March 1 shall pay a penalty of $25 per residential dwelling unit,
plus interest at the rate of 1% per month until the license is obtained and, in
addition, any violation of any provision of this chapter is a civil violation
subject to the authority of the Code Enforcement Board.
(1997 Code, § 153.22) (Ord. 3-1-90, passed 4-7-1990; Ord. 4-1-10, passed 5-5-
2010; Ord. 6-2-13, passed 7-3-2013; Ord. 10-2-19, passed 11-6-2019)
§ 152.23 USE OF PROCEEDS.
   All funds paid to the city pursuant to this chapter shall be deposited in
the General Fund of the city for General Fund expenditures, including the cost
of implementation of this chapter and the cost of inspections and enforcement
procedures in this chapter.
(1997 Code, § 153.23) (Ord. 3-1-90, passed 4-7-1990)
§ 152.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter for which no
penalty is otherwise provided shall be guilty of a violation and shall be
subject to a fine not to exceed $250. In addition, any violation of any
provision of this chapter is a civil violation subject to the authority of the
Code Enforcement Board.
   (B)   In addition to other provisions of this section, it shall be a civil
offense for any person to violate the provisions of this chapter, including
failing to obtain or maintain a rental property license. Citations for same may
be issued by the city’s Code Enforcement Officer or Police Department. Civil
offenses arising under this chapter shall be enforced by the Kenton County
Joint Code Enforcement Board, pursuant to city ordinances (Ord. 9-1-17 and Ord.
8-1-18), and penalties for violations shall forth in Ord. 9-1-17.
(1997 Code, § 153.99) (Ord. 12-1-05, passed 1-4-2006; Ord. 4-1-10, passed 5-5-
2010; Ord. 12-1-19, passed 1-8-2020)
CHAPTER 153: ZONING
Section
   
153.01   Zoning Code adopted by reference
§ 153.01 ZONING CODE ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   (A)   The Zoning Code of the city and all amendments thereto are hereby
adopted by reference and made a part of this code as if set out in full herein.
   (B)   This Zoning Code shall be available for public inspection in the
office of the City Clerk.
(1997 Code, § 154.01) (Ord. 10-1-85, passed 11-5-1985; Ord. 10-1-98, passed 11-
7-1998; Ord. 10-2-98, passed 2-6-1999; Ord. 8-2-03, passed 9-3-2003; Ord. 3-2-
13, passed 4-3-2013; Ord. 12-1-14, passed 1-7-2015; Ord. 2-2-18, passed 3-7-
2018; Ord. 4-2-19, passed 5-1-2019; Ord. 7-2-21, passed 7-14-2021; Ord. 3-1-22,
passed 4-13-2022)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   Table
      
I.   ANNEXATIONS
      
II.   CONTRACTS AND AGREEMENTS
      
III.   FRANCHISES
      
IV.   STREET NAME CHANGES
      
V.   VACATIONS
      
VI.   REZONING
TABLE I: ANNEXATIONS
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
                          Annexing a portion of the City of Villa Hills laying
2-1-83        3-1-1983    southwest of the City of Bromley between the south
                          shore of the Ohio River and High Water Road
                          Annexing certain unincorporated territory beginning
12-1-83       - -1984     at a point on the corporation line, said point being
                          the extreme northwest corner of the corporation
                          Annexing certain territory beginning at the southwest
10-1-92       11-10-1992  corner of the city limits, said corner being the
                          common corner of the city limits of the City of
                          Bromley and the City of Villa Hills on Highwater Road
                          Annexing the real property described in Exhibits A, B
                          and C, attached to Ordinance 6-1-96 and incorporated
6-1-96        7-6-1996    herein by reference, and as set forth on Exhibit D to
                          Ordinance 6-1-96, a map showing the property referred
                          to above, which is also incorporated herein by
                          reference as if fully set forth
                          Annexing three parcels of real estate described in
11-1-99       12-4-1999   Exhibit A, attached to Ordinance 11-1-99 and
                          incorporated herein by reference as if fully set
                          forth
                          Annexing a parcel of real estate described in Exhibit
6-3-00        7-19-2000   A, attached to Ordinance 6-3-00 and incorporated
                          herein by reference as if fully set forth
                          Annexing three parcels of real estate described in
3-1-01        4-7-2001    Exhibit A, attached to Ordinance 3-1-01 and
                          incorporated herein by reference as if fully set
                          forth
 
TABLE II: CONTRACTS AND AGREEMENTS
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
Ord./ Date
Res.  Passed Description
No.
             Authorizing the Mayor of the City of Bromley to execute the amendment to the
11-1- 11-12- Dixie Police Authority Inter- Governmental Cooperative Agreement, a copy of
91    1991   which is attached to Ordinance 11-1-91 and incorporated herein as if set forth
             in full, on behalf of the city to allow the City of Bromley to become a member
             of and obtain police protection from the Dixie Police Authority
7-1-  9-2-   Authorizing the Mayor to execute the amendment to the Dixie Police Authority
95    1995   Inter- governmental Cooperative Agreement, attached to Ordinance 7-1-95 and
             incorporated herein by reference and hereby approved by the City Council
9-1-  10-7-  Authorizing the Mayor to sign the Interlocal Cooperation Agreement creating
95    1995   the Telecommunications Board of Northern Kentucky on behalf of the city
10-1- 11-1-  Authorizing a second amendment to the interlocal cooperation agreement
97    1997   establishing the Tele- communications Board of Northern Kentucky
2-1-  2-1-   Authorizing the Mayor to enter into an interlocal agreement with the City of
98    1998   Ludlow for provision of police and related services
4-1-  4-1-   Authorizing the Mayor to enter into an interlocal agreement with the City of
98    1998   Ludlow for provision of police and related services
7-1-  8-1-   Providing for the payment of a contractual obligation of the city to the
98    1998   Sanitation District No. 1 of Campbell and Kenton Counties
3-1-  4-1-   Amending Ordinance 7-1-98, providing for the payment of a contractual
00    2000   obligation of the city to the Sanitation District No. 1 of Campbell and Kenton
             Counties
3-1-  4-3-   Authorizing the Mayor to sign and execute an asset acquisition agreement
02    2002   between the city and the Northern Kentucky Water District
6-4-  6-18-  Approving the terms of an interlocal agreement with Kenton County and other
03    2003   cities therein for animal control services
10-1- 11-4-  Approving the terms of an interlocal agreement with Kenton County for the
09    2009   limited purpose of the consolidation of the administration, enforcement and
             collection of occupational license fee and tax ordinances of the city
1-1-  1-1-   Approving a joint and cooperative program for self- insurance, insurance and
12    2012   the investment of public funds; execution of the “Interlocal Cooperation
             Agreement to Establish the League of Cities Insurance Services Association”
6-1-  - -    Approving interlocal agreement for unified “One Stop Shop” Codes
18           Administration
R.    4-11-  Adopting interlocal agreement between city and Ludlow, Kentucky relating to
2019- 2019   fire protection and emergency service first response
5
R. 8- 8-7-   Adopting interlocal agreement between city and Ludlow, Kentucky relating to
2-    2019   fire protection and emergency service first response
2019
R. 5- 5-1-   Adopting execution of a Municipal Aid Co-op Program Contract Contract between
1-21  2021   the city and the Commonwealth of Kentucky Transportation Cabinet
             Adopting an amended interlocal agreement between the city, the Kenton County
7-1-  7-14-  Fiscal Court, and the cities of Crescent Springs, Crestview Hills, Edgewood,
21    2021   Elsmere, Fort Wright, Independence, Kenton Vale, Lakeside Park, Ludlow, Park
             Hills, Ryland Heights, Taylor Mill and Villa Hills for code enforcement
R. 6- 6-29-  Authorizing the Mayor to execute an addendum to the city’s existing contract
2-22  2022   with Rumpke of Kentucky, Inc., for solid waste collection in the city
 
TABLE III: FRANCHISES
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
                          Granting and offering for sale a 20-year franchise to
8-1-94        9-3-1994    place gas transmission and distribution facilities in
                          public streets and places of the city
                          Granting a 12-year, non- exclusive franchise to TCI-
9-1-97        10-4-1997   TKR Cable of Northern Kentucky, providing for the
                          construction, erection, installation and operation of
                          a cable television system
R. 8-1-19     8-7-2019    Granting a non-exclusive telecommunications franchise
                          for wired telecommuncations facilities
                          Confirming the sale and awarding a nonexclusive
10-1-19       11-6-2019   franchise to MCIMETRO Access Transmission Services
                          Corp. for a term of ten years with options
                          Granting and issuing a competitive, non-exclusive
                          franchise for a combined term of ten years to
10-2-21       11-3-2021   Cincinnati Bell Extended Territories LLC for the
                          construction, erection, installation, upgrade,
                          maintenance, repair and operation of a cable
                          television system
                          Granting a ten-year, non-exclusive franchise to
                          Spectrum Mid-America, LLC, an affiliate of Charter
8-1-23        9-13-2023   Communications, Inc., providing for the construction,
                          erection, installation, repair, maintenance and
                          operation of a cable television system
 
TABLE IV: STREET NAME CHANGES
 
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
                          Changing the name of Shelby Street, beginning at the
                          intersection of Shelby Street and Pleasant Street and
7-2-94        7-2-1994    from that point extending in an easterly direction to
                          the boundary of the City of Ludlow and the City of
                          Bromley, and formerly also known as East Shelby
                          Street to Oak Street
11-2-94       12-6-1994   Changing the name of Harris Street to Steve Tanner
                          Street
 
TABLE V: VACATIONS
 
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
12-1-78       - -1978     Closing a portion of Front Street between Harris
                          Street and Main Street
2-2-81        5-5-1981    Closing a portion of Harris Street north of Pike
                          Street
                          Closing a portion of Front Street being the portion
4-1-87        5-5-1987    lying between Main and Pike Streets as shown on the
                          Original Plat of Bromley
12-3-23       1-10-2024   Closing a public way, 115 Moore Street
 
TABLE VI: REZONING
 
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
4-1-19        5-1-2019    Changes zoning of a certain area from Zone R1-A to
                          Zone I-4
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Kentucky Revised Statutes
References to 1997 Code
References to Resolutions
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO KENTUCKY REVISED STATUTES
KRS Cites Code Sections
KRS Cites                     Code Sections
6.050                         32.43
6.955 to 6.975                34.03
Ch. 13A                       93.02
Ch. 13B                       93.06
15.409                        35.26
Ch. 18A                       116.03
18A.225(2)                    116.03
18A.228                       116.03
Ch. 31                     35.26
41.240(4)                     34.04
42.450 to 42.495              34.03
43.050                        34.03
Ch. 45A                       35.26
Ch. 56                        35.26
Ch. 61                        32.16
61.168                        35.26
61.169                        35.26
61.300                        90.15
61.810                        36.081
61.823                        32.16
61.823(2) - (4)               91.35
                              35.27;
61.870 to 61.884              36.078;
                              36.084;
                              36.085
61.870(1)                     35.01
61.870(2)                     35.01
61.870(3)                     35.01
61.870(4)                     35.01
61.870(5)                     35.01
61.870(6)                     35.01
61.870(7)                     35.01
61.870(8)                     35.01
61.870(9)                     35.01
61.872 to 61.884              36.020
61.872(1) - (3)               35.15
61.872(4)                     35.16
61.872(5)                     35.17
61.872(6)                     35.18
61.874(1)                     35.22
61.874(2)                     35.22
61.874(3)                     35.23
61.874(4)                     35.23
61.874(5)                     35.24
61.874(6)                     35.25
61.878                        35.01
61.878(1)                     35.26
61.878(2)                     35.26
61.878(3)                     35.26
61.878(4)                     35.26
61.878(5)                     35.26
61.878(6)                     35.26
61.880(1)                     35.19 ;
                              35.26
61.884                        35.21
65.003                        36.003
65.760                        96.01
65.8808(2)(b)(1)              110.53
65.8808(2)(b)(2)              110.53
65.8835(1)                    91.03
65.8840(1)(b)                 92.01
65.8840(1)(e)                 92.01
65.8840(1)(h)                 92.01
65.8840(1)(j)                 92.01
65.8840(3) - (14)             92.04
65.8840(8) - (10)             92.07
67.750 through 67.795         110.35
67.753                        110.37
67.753(2) and (3)             110.37
67.753(4)                     110.37
82.082                        36.003;
                              110.01
Ch. 83A                       31.15
83A.010 to 83A.120            30.01
83A.010(5)                    10.02
83A.010(6)                    10.02
83A.010(8)                    10.02
83A.030(1)                    30.02
83A.040(1)                    31.16
83A.040(2)(a), (6)            31.16
83A.040(2)(c)                 31.16
83A.040(2)(d)                 31.16
83A.040(3)                    31.16
83A.040(4)                    32.01
83A.040(5)                    32.02
83A.040(6)                    32.02
83A.040(7)                    31.16;
                              32.02
83A.040(8)                    31.16;
                              32.02
83A.040(9)                    31.03
83A.050                       31.15
83A.060(1)                    32.30
83A.060(2)                    32.31
83A.060(3)                    32.32
83A.060(4)                    32.33
83A.060(5)                    32.35
83A.060(6)                    32.17 
83A.060(7)                    32.33
83A.060(8)                    32.36
83A.060(8)(a), (b)            32.37
83A.060(9)                    32.38
83A.060(10)                   32.39
83A.060(11)                   32.40
83A.060(12)                   32.41
83A.060(13)                   32.41
83A.060(14)                   32.42
83A.060(15)                   32.43
83A.070                       31.02
83A.070(1)                    31.02
83A.070(2)                    31.02
83A.070(3)                    31.02;
                              31.03
83A.075                       31.02
                              31.33;
83A.080                       31.37;  
                              36.004
83A.080(1), (2)               31.30
83A.080(3)                    31.03
83A.080(4)                    31.15
83A.080(5)                    31.15
83A.130 to 83A.150            31.16
83A.130(1)                    30.01
83A.130(2)                    30.02
83A.130(3)                    31.16
83A.130(4)                    31.16
83A.130(5)                    32.15
83A.130(6)                    32.34
83A.130(7)                    31.16
83A.130(8)                    31.16
83A.130(9)                    31.16
83A.130(10)                   31.16
83A.130(11)                   32.03
83A.130(11)                   32.16
83A.130(12)                   32.03
83A.130(13)                   32.03
83A.175                       32.02
91A.010                       34.01
91A.010(8)                    10.02
91A.020                       34.02
91A.030                       34.41
91A.040                       34.03
91A.050                       34.03
91A.060                       34.04
91A.070(1)                    34.06
91A.080(3), (10)              116.03
91A.080(8), (9)               116.04
91A.080(8)(a) - (d)           116.05
91A.200                       34.21
91A.210                       34.20
91A.220                       34.21
91A.230                       34.22
91A.240                       34.23
91A.250                       34.24
91A.260                       34.26
91A.270                       34.25
91A.280                       34.27
91A.290                       34.28
92.280                        110.01
92.281                        110.01
Ch. 107                       34.21
Ch. 116 through 121           31.15
118.305(7)                    32.02
131.010(6)                    116.04
139.200                       93.03
Ch. 154                       35.26
174.100                       91.35
174.100(1)                    91.36,
                              91.37
174.100(2)                    91.37
174.100(3)                    91.38
174.100(4)                    91.39
174.100(5)                    91.40
Ch. 186 through 190           70.07
186.020                       73.07;
                              73.46
186.050                       73.46
186.410                       73.05
186.510                       73.05
186A.145                      72.27
186A.190                      72.27
Ch. 189                       73.46
189.020                       71.37
189.080                       73.45
189.260                       73.46
189.290                       71.35
189.330(8)                    71.02
189.338                       70.20
189.390                       71.05
189.394                       71.99
189.450(5), (6)               72.03
189.580                       71.20
189.725                       72.08
189.820                       73.46
189.930                       71.35
189.990(1)                    72.99;
                              Ch. 75
189.993(8)                    71.99
190.010(6)                    92.04
190.010(8)                    92.04
190.010(11)                   92.04
196.099                       35.01
198B.070                      151.35
224.1-410                     92.04
224.20-720                    73.46
227.320                       37.03,
                              93.22
227.330(6)                    93.03
227.550                       92.04
227.700                       93.01
227.700 to 227.750            93.01;
                              93.06
227.702                       93.01;
                              93.02
227.704                       93.01
227.706                       93.01
227.708                       93.01
227.710                       93.02
227.715                       93.02;
                              93.03
227.720                       93.04
227.730                       93.05
227.750                       93.06
227.990(4)                    93.99
Ch. 241                       112.01
Ch. 241 to 244                112.19
Ch. 242                       112.01
Ch. 243                       112.01;
                              112.02
243.030                       112.20
243.040                       112.20
243.070                       112.20
243.100                       112.17
Ch. 244                       112.02
258.215                       90.20
Ch. 281                       72.26
281.010                       92.04
281.920 to 281.936            72.27
281.926                       72.27
281.928                       72.27
281.928(1)                    72.27
281.932                       72.27
304.39-090 through 304.39-110 73.06;
                              73.48
Ch. 342                       116.03
Ch. 376                       92.27
376.275(1)                    72.27
376.275(2)                    72.27
383.500                       152.01
383.505 through 383.705       152.01
                              32.38;
                              34.03;
Ch. 424                       34.24;
                              34.25;
                              92.07;
                              92.27
424.120                       34.03
424.220                       34.03
424.220(6)(b)                 34.03
424.240                       34.43
446.010(1)                    10.02
446.010(2)                    10.02
446.010(9)                    10.02
446.010(10)                   10.02
446.010(12)                   10.02
446.010(13)                   10.02
446.010(14)                   10.02
446.010(15)                   10.02
446.010(17)                   10.02
446.010(18)                   10.02
446.010(23)                   10.02
446.010(25)                   10.02
446.010(26)                   10.02
446.010(27)                   10.02
446.010(28)                   10.02
446.010(30)                   10.02
446.010(31)                   10.02
446.010(33)                   10.02
446.010(37)                   10.02
446.010(39)                   10.02
446.010(43)                   10.02
446.010(46)                   10.02
446.010(47)                   10.02
446.010(49)                   10.02
446.010(55)                   10.02
446.020(1)                    10.03
446.020(2)                    10.03
446.030                       10.04
446.050                       10.05
446.060                       10.06
446.080(1)                    10.03
446.080(3)                    10.03
446.080(4)                    10.03
446.090                       10.07
446.100                       10.08
446.110                       10.09
446.140                       10.01
520.010                       35.01
525.125                       90.15
525.130                       90.15
525.135                       90.15
525.137                       90.15
532.090(1)                    97.99;
                              110.99
534.040(2)(a)                 97.99;
                              110.99
610.200 through 610.280       130.01
635.010                       130.99
635.010 et seq.               130.99
635.020                       130.99
635.060                       130.99
635.070                       130.99
635.080                       130.99
635.085                       130.99
635.100                       130.99
                              
 
REFERENCES TO 1997 CODE
1997 Code 2021 Code
1997 Code        2021 Code
10.01            10.01
10.02            10.02
10.03            10.03
10.04            10.04
10.05            10.05
10.06            10.06
10.07            10.07
10.08            10.08
10.09            10.09
10.10            10.10
10.11            10.11
10.12            10.12
10.13            10.13
10.14            10.14
10.15            10.15
10.16            10.16
10.17            10.17
10.99            10.99
30.01            30.01
30.02            30.02
31.01            31.01
31.02            31.02
31.03            31.03
31.04            31.04
31.20            31.15
31.21            31.16
31.22            31.17
31.35            31.30
31.36            31.31
31.38            31.32
31.40            31.33
31.41            31.34
31.45            31.35
31.46            31.36
32.01            32.01
32.02            32.02
32.03            32.03
32.20            32.15
32.21            32.16
32.22            32.17 
32.35            32.30
32.36            32.31
32.37            32.32
32.38            32.33
32.39            32.34
32.40            32.35
32.41            32.36
32.42            32.37
32.43            32.38
32.44            32.39
32.45            32.40
32.46            32.41
32.47            32.42
32.48            32.43
32.60            33.15
32.61            33.16
32.62            33.17
32.63            33.18
32.64            33.19
32.66            33.20
32.67            33.21
33.01            34.01
33.02            34.02
33.04            34.03
33.04            34.99
33.05            34.04
33.10            34.20
33.11            34.21
33.12            34.22
33.13            34.23
33.14            34.24
33.15            34.25
33.16            34.26
33.17            34.27
33.18            34.28
33.25            34.40
33.26            34.41
33.27            34.42
33.28            34.43
33.29            34.44
33.30            34.45
33.31            34.46
35.01            35.01
35.05            35.15
35.06            35.16
35.07            35.17
35.08            35.18
35.09            35.19
35.10            35.20
35.11            35.21
35.12            35.22
35.13            35.23
35.14            35.24
35.15            35.25
35.16            35.26
35.17            35.27
36.01            37.15
36.02            37.16
36.03            37.17
36.04            37.18
36.05            37.19
38.01            36.001
38.02            36.002
38.03            36.003
38.04            36.004
38.15            36.015
38.16            36.016
38.17            36.017
38.18            36.018
38.19            36.019
38.20            36.020
38.21            36.021
38.22            36.022
38.35            36.035
38.36            36.036
38.37            36.037
38.38            36.038
38.39            36.039
38.40            36.040
38.40            36.999
38.50            36.055
38.60            36.070
38.61            36.071
38.62            36.072
38.63            36.073
38.64            36.074
38.65            36.075
38.66            36.076
38.67            36.077
38.68            36.078
38.69            36.079
38.70            36.080
38.71            36.081
38.72            36.082
38.73            36.083
38.74            36.084
38.75            36.085
38.99            36.999
39.01            37.01
39.99            37.99
51.01            50.01
51.02            50.02
51.03            50.03
51.04            50.04
51.05            50.05
51.99            50.99
70.01            70.01
70.02            70.02
70.03            70.03
70.04            70.04
70.05            70.05
70.06            70.06
70.07            70.07
70.08            70.08
70.15            70.20
70.16            70.21
70.17            70.22
70.18            70.23
70.19            70.24
70.20            70.25
70.21            70.26
70.99            70.99
71.01            71.01
71.02            71.02
71.03            71.03
71.04            71.04
71.05            71.05
71.15            71.20
71.16            71.21
71.25            71.35
71.26            71.36
71.27            71.37
71.28            71.38
71.40            74.01
71.41            74.02
71.42            74.03
71.43            74.04
71.44            74.05
71.45            74.06
71.46            74.07
71.47            74.08
71.48            74.09
71.49            74.10
71.50            74.11
71.51            74.12
71.99            71.99
72.01            72.01
72.02            72.02
72.03            72.03
72.04            72.04
72.05            72.05
72.06            72.06
72.07            72.07
72.08            72.08
72.09            72.09
72.10            72.10
72.11            72.11
72.12            72.12
72.13            72.13
72.14            72.14
72.20            72.25
72.21            72.26
72.22            72.27
72.35            72.40
72.36            72.41
72.37            72.42
72.99            72.99
73.01            73.01
73.02            73.02
73.03            73.03
73.04            73.04
73.05            73.05
73.06            73.06
73.07            73.07
73.08            73.08
73.09            73.20
73.10            73.21
73.11            73.22
73.12            73.23
73.13            73.24
73.14            73.25
73.15            73.26
73.16            73.27
73.17            73.28
73.18            73.29
73.19            73.30
73.99            73.99
Ch. 74, Schd. I  Ch. 75, Schd. I
Ch. 74, Schd. II Ch. 75, Schd. II
Ch. 75, Schd. I  Ch. 76, Schd. I
Ch. 75, Schd. II Ch. 76, Schd. II
91.01            91.15
91.02            91.16
91.03            91.17
91.04            91.18
91.05            91.19
91.06            91.20
91.07            91.21
91.15            91.35
91.16            91.36
91.17            91.37
91.18            91.38
91.19            91.39
91.20            91.40
91.30            91.55
91.31            91.56
91.32            91.57
91.33            91.58
91.99            91.99
92.01            92.01
92.02            92.02
92.03            92.03
92.04            92.04
92.05            92.05
92.06            92.06
92.11            92.07
92.15            92.20
92.16            92.21
92.17            92.22
92.18            92.23
92.19            92.24
92.20            92.25
92.21            92.26
92.22            92.27
92.23            92.28
92.24            92.29
92.25            92.30
92.26            92.31
92.27            92.32
92.98            92.33
92.99            92.99
93.01            93.01
93.02            93.02
93.03            93.03
93.04            93.04
93.05            93.05
93.06            93.06
93.20            93.20
93.21            93.21
93.99            93.99
94.01            94.01
94.02            94.02
94.03            94.03
94.04            94.04
94.05            94.05
94.99            94.99
95.01            95.01
95.02            95.02
95.03            95.03
95.04            95.04
95.05            95.05
95.06            95.06
95.07            95.07
95.08            95.08
95.09            95.09
95.20            95.20
95.21            95.21
95.22            95.22
95.99            95.99
96.01            96.01
96.02            96.02
110.01           110.01
110.02           110.02
110.15           110.15
110.16           110.16
110.17           110.17
110.18           110.18
110.19           110.19
110.20           110.20
110.21           110.21
110.35           110.35
110.36           110.36
110.37           110.37
110.50           110.50
110.51           110.51
110.52           110.52
110.53           110.53
110.54           110.54
110.99           110.99
111.01           111.01
111.02           111.02
111.03           111.03
111.05           111.04
111.06           111.05
111.07           111.06
111.08           111.07
111.99           111.99
112.01           112.01
112.02           112.02
112.03           112.03
112.10           112.15
112.11           112.16
112.13           112.18
112.14           112.19
112.15           112.20
112.16           112.21
112.17           112.22
112.18           112.23
112.19           112.24
112.30           112.35
112.31           112.36
112.32           112.37
112.99           112.99
113.01           113.01
113.02           113.02
113.03           113.03
113.04           113.04
113.05           113.05
113.06           113.06
113.07           113.07
113.99           113.99
114.01           114.01
114.02           114.02
114.03           114.03
114.04           114.04
114.99           114.99
115.01           115.01
115.02           115.02
115.03           115.03
115.04           115.04
115.05           115.05
115.06           115.06
115.07           115.07
115.08           115.08
115.09           115.09
115.10           115.10
115.11           115.11
115.99           115.99
116.01           116.01
116.02           116.02
116.03           116.03
116.04           116.04
116.05           116.05
116.06           116.06
130.01           130.01
130.02           130.02
130.03           130.03
130.99           130.99
150.01           150.01
150.02           150.02
150.03           150.03
150.04           150.04
150.05           150.05
150.06           150.06
150.99           150.99
152.01           151.01
152.10           151.15
152.11           151.16
152.12           151.17
152.13           151.18
152.14           151.19
152.15           151.20
152.16           151.21
152.25           151.35
152.26           151.36
152.27           151.37
152.28           151.38
152.29           151.39
152.30           151.40
152.98           151.41
152.99           151.99
153.01           152.01
153.15           152.15
153.16           152.16
153.17           152.17
153.18           152.18
153.19           152.19
153.20           152.20
153.21           152.21
153.22           152.22
153.23           152.23
153.99           152.99
154.01           153.01
                 
 
REFERENCES TO RESOLUTIONS
 
Res. No. Date Passed Code Section
2019-5   4-11-2019   TSO Table II
8-1-19   8-7-2019    TSO Table III
8-2-2019 8-7-2019    TSO Table II
5-1-21   5-1-2021    TSO Table II
6-2-22   6-29-2022   TSO Table II
                    
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No.  Date Passed Code Section
6-1-18    - -         TSO Table II
5-4-78    - -1978     Ch. 75, Schd. I
11-1-78   - -1978     114.01—
                      114.04
12-1-78   - -1978     TSO Table V
3-2-80    - -1980     150.01
10-2-81   - -1981     Ch. 75, Schd. I
6-1-85    - -1985     37.17
4-1-86    - -1986     116.02—
                      116.05
7-1-86    - -1986     Ch. 76, Schd. I
1-2-87    - -1987     31.34
5-3-88    - -1988     95.01
5-1-90    - -1990     116.02
5-1-90    - -1990     116.03—
                      116.05
5-3-1978  9-5-1978    34.40—
                      34.46
11-1-79   1-17-1980   32.01
2-2-81    5-5-1981    TSO Table V
4-3-82    4-13-1982   95.01
2-1-83    3-1-1983    TSO Table I
                      113.01—
3-2-83    4-5-1983    113.07;
                      113.99
5-1-83    6-14-1983   72.03
12-1-83   - -1984     TSO Table I
                      115.01—
7-1-85    8- -1985    115.11;
                      115.99
10-1-85   11-5-1985   153.01
1-1-87    2-3-1987    130.03;
                      130.99
4-1-87    5-5-1987    TSO Table V
                      92.33;
1988-21   7-11-1988   92.99;
                      151.99
11-4-88   12-6-1988   151.36
3-1-90    4-7-1990    152.15—
                      152.23
3-1-91    4-6-1991    92.20
                      92.33;
1991-7    6-24-1991   92.99;
                      151.99
7-1-91    9-7-1991    150.02
11-1-91   11-12-1991  TSO Table II
3-1-92    3-7-1992    37.01;
                      37.99
6-1-92    7-14-1992   92.33;
                      92.99
6-1-92    7-14-1992   151.41;
                      151.99
8-1-92    8-11-1992   31.35
10-1-92   11-10-1992  TSO Table I
11-1-92   11-10-1992  32.16
3-2-93    4-3-1993    130.01;
                      130.99
6-3-93    7-3-1993    150.06;
                      150.99
10-1-93   11-6-1993   152.18
7-2-94    7-2-1994    TSO Table IV
7-1-94    8-6-1994    152.01
8-1-94    9-3-1994    TSO Table III
9-1-94    10-1-1994   130.01
9-2-94    10-1-1994   37.17
10-1-94   11-5-1994   Ch. 76, Schd. II
11-1-94   12-5-1994   Ch. 76, Schd. II
11-2-94   12-6-1994   TSO Table IV
                      36.001—
                      36.004;
                      36.015—
                      36.022;
11-3-94   12-6-1994   36.035—
                      36.040;
                      36.055;
                      36.070—
                      36.085;
                      36.999
7-1-95    9-2-1995    TSO Table II
9-1-95    10-7-1995   TSO Table II
10-1-95   11-7-1995   Ch. 76, Schd. II
6-1-96    7-6-1996    TSO Table I
7-1-97    7-12-1997   71.05
9-1-97    10-4-1997   TSO Table III
10-1-97   11-1-1997   TSO Table II
2-1-98    2-1-1998    TSO Table II
4-1-98    4-1-1998    TSO Table II
7-1-98    8-1-1998    TSO Table II
10-1-98   11-7-1998   153.01
11-1-98   12-5-1998   72.14
10-2-98   2-6-1999    153.01
4-1-99    5-1-1999    72.14
                      31.30—
6-1-99    7-3-1999    31.32;
                      31.36;
                      95.20
11-1-99   12-4-1999   TSO Table I
3-1-00    4-1-2000    TSO Table II
6-3-00    7-19-2000   TSO Table I
3-1-01    4-7-2001    TSO Table I
8-1-01    8-1-2001    70.08
3-2-02    3-2-2002    32.16
3-1-02    4-3-2002    TSO Table II
                      50.01—
2-1-03    3-5-2003    50.05;
                      50.99
6-4-03    6-18-2003   TSO Table II
8-2-03    9-3-2003    153.01
12-01-03  1-7-2004    31.04
9-2-04    11-3-2004   31.35
                      73.01—
                      73.08;
11-1-04   12-1-2004   73.20—
                      73.30;
                      73.99
12-1-05   1-4-2006    152.99
2-1-06    3-1-2006    91.15—
                      91.21
6-1-06    7-5-2006    72.06
6-2-07    7-11-2007   116.06
                      110.01;
                      110.02;
                      110.15—
                      110.21;
12-1-07   12-13-2007  110.35—
                      110.37;
                      110.50—
                      110.54;
                      110.99
5-3-08    6-4-2008    96.01;
                      96.02
6-1-08    7-2-2008    152.18
6-2-08    7-2-2008    92.07
11-1-08   12-3-2008   110.15
10-1-09   11-4-2009   TSO Table II
4-1-10    5-5-2010    152.22;
                      152.99
4-1-11    5-4-2011    92.07
7-1-11    8-3-2011    33.15;
                      33.21
                      97.01—
10-1-11   11-2-2011   97.03;
                      97.99
1-1-12    1-1-2012    TSO Table II
3-2-12    4-4-2012    152.18
11-1-12   12-5-2012   96.02
3-1-13    4-3-2013    152.18
3-2-13    4-3-2013    153.01
5-1-13    6-5-2013    93.22
6-1-13    7-3-2013    50.06
6-2-13    7-3-2013    152.17;
                      152.22
7-1-13    8-7-2013    152.18
9-1-12    12-4-2013   112.04
                      112.01;
11-1-13   12-4-2013   112.04;
                      112.19;
                      112.20
12-1-14   1-7-2015    153.01
5-3-15    6-3-2015    110.36
7-2-15    8-5-2015    91.03
7-3-15    8-5-2015    91.02
6-1-2016  7-6-2016    70.08
                      150.01;
10-1-16   11-2-2016   150.03;
                      150.04
11-2-16   12-7-2016   91.01
12-1-16   1-4-2017    72.25
12-2-17   1-3-2018    150.20—
                      150.24
2-2-18    3-7-2018    153.01
6-1-18    6-20-2018   Ch. 76, Schd. I
6-2-18    6-20-2018   152.18
6-3-18    6-20-2018   150.03
8-1-18    8-8-2018    33.01
8-2-18    8-8-2018    32.16
1-1-19    2-13-2019   37.15
4-1-19    5-1-2019    TSO Table VI
4-2-19    5-1-2019    153.01
6-1-19    6-12-2019   34.06
                      73.45—
7-1-19    8-7-2019    73.49;
                      73.99
7-2-19    8-17-2019   Ch. 76, Schd. I
10-1-19   11-6-2019   TSO Table III
10-2-19   11-6-2019   152.17;
                      152.22
12-1-19   1-8-2020    152.99
1-1-20    2-5-2020    Ch. 76, Schd. I
2-1-20    3-4-2020    31.31
                      90.01—
                      90.03;
                      90.15—
                      90.23;
3-1-20    5-6-2020    90.35—
                      90.38;
                      90.50—
                      90.52;
                      90.99
5-1-20    6-3-2020    72.15;
                      72.99
10-1-20   12-2-2020   115.07
                      98.01—
2-1-21    3-3-2021    98.03;
                      98.99
3-1-2021  4-7-2021    31.31
4-1-21    5-5-2021    152.16
4-2-21    5-5-2021    34.40
7-1-21    7-14-2021   TSO Table II
7-2-21    7-14-2021   153.01
8-1-21    9-1-2021    37.17
10-1-21   11-3-2021   Adopting Ordinance
10-2-21   11-3-2021   TSO Table III
12-1-21   1-5-2022    72.16
2-1-22    3-2-2022    32.16
3-1-22    4-13-2022   153.01
3-2-22    4-13-2022   37.02
4-1-22    5-11-2022   31.37
4-3-22    5-11-2022   34.55
2-1-23  3-8-2023    37.03
8-1-23    9-13-2023   TSO Table III
12-1-23   1-9-2024    97.02,
                      97.04
                      117.01—
12-2-23   1-10-2024   117.09,
                      117.99
12-3-23   1-10-2024   TSO Table V
                     
 
