CADIZ, KENTUCKY
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2025 S-18 Supplement contains:
Local legislation current through Ord. 24-04, passed 8-15-2022; and
State legislation current through 2024 KRS Pamphlet
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street, Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
Tel: (800) 445-5588
Internet: http://www.amlegal.com
ADOPTING ORDINANCE
CODE OF ORDINANCES 99-62
AN ORDINANCE ENACTING A CODE OF ORDINANCES FOR THE CITY OF CADIZ, KENTUCKY,
REVISING, AMENDING, RESTATING, CODIFYING AND COMPILING CERTAIN EXISTING GENERAL
ORDINANCES OF THE POLITICAL SUBDIVISION DEALING WITH SUBJECTS EMBRACED IN SUCH
CODE OF ORDINANCES, AND DECLARING AN EMERGENCY.
WHEREAS, the present general and permanent ordinances of the political
subdivision are inadequately arranged and classified and are insufficient in
form and substance for the complete preservation of the public peace, health,
safety and general welfare of the municipality and for the proper conduct of
its affairs; and
WHEREAS, the acts of Legislature of the State of Kentucky empower and empower
and authorize the political subdivision to revise, amend, restate, codify and
compile any existing ordinances and all new ordinances not heretofore adopted
or published and to incorporate such ordinances into one ordinance in book
form; and
WHEREAS, the legislative Authority of the Political Subdivision has authorized
a general compilation, revision and codification of the ordinances of the
Political Subdivision of a general and permanent nature and publication of such
ordinance in book form; and
WHEREAS, it is necessary to provide for the usual daily operation of the
municipality and for the immediate preservation of the public peace, health,
safety and general welfare of the municipality that this ordinance take effect
at an early date.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE LEGISLATIVE AUTHORITY OF THE POLITICAL
SUBDIVISION OF THE CITY OF CADIZ, KENTUCKY.
Section 1.   The general ordinances of the Political Subdivision as revised,
amended, restated, codified, and compiled in book form are hereby adopted as
and shall constitute the "Code of Ordinances of the City of Cadiz, Kentucky."
Section 2.   Such Code of Ordinances as adopted in Section 1 shall consist of
the following Titles:
Chapter
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   10.   Rules of Construction; General Penalty
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   30.   Mayor-Council Plan
   31.   City Officials
   32.   City Council
   33.   Finance and Revenue
   34.   Public Records
   35.   Taxation
   36.   Departments and Commissions
   37.   Personnel
   38.   Code of Ethical Conduct
   39.   City Policy
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   50.   Sewers
   51.   Solid Waste
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   70.   General Provisions
   71.   Traffic Rules
   72.   Parking Regulations
   73.   Bicycles, Motorcycles and Toy Vehicles
   74.   Parking Schedules
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   90.   Animals
   91.   Streets and Sidewalks
   92.   Nuisances
   93.   Fireworks; Fire Prevention
   94.   Littering
   95.   Cemeteries
   96.   Abandoned Vehicles
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   110.   General Licensing Provisions
   111.   Peddlers, Itinerant Merchants, and Solicitors
   112.   Pawnbrokers
   113.   Insurance Companies
   114.   Cable TV
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   130.   General Offenses
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   150.   Building Regulations
   151.   Zoning
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
Table
   I.   Agreements
   II.   Annexations
   III.   Dedications and Acceptances
   IV.   Franchises
   V.   Vacations
PARALLEL REFERENCES
   References to Kentucky Revised Statutes
   References to Resolutions
   References to Ordinances
Section 3.   All prior ordinances pertaining to the subject treated in such
Code of Ordinances shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date
of this ordinance except as they are included and reordained in whole or in
part in such Code; provided, such repeal shall not affect any offense committed
or penalty incurred or any right established prior to the effective date of
this ordinance, nor shall such repeal affect the provisions of ordinances
levying taxes, appropriating money, annexing or detaching territory,
establishing franchises, or granting special rights to certain persons,
authorizing public improvements, authorizing the issuance of bonds or borrowing
of money, authorizing the purchase or sale of real or personal property,
granting or accepting easements, plat or dedication of land to public use,
vacating or setting the boundaries of streets or other public places; nor shall
such repeal affect any other ordinance of a temporary or special nature or
pertaining to subjects not contained in or covered by the Code.
Section 4.   Such Code shall be deemed published as of the day of its adoption
and approval by the Legislative Authority and the Clerk of the Political
Subdivision is hereby authorized and ordered to file a copy of such Code of
Ordinances in the Office of the Clerk.
Section 5.   Such Code shall be in full force and effect as provided in Section
6, and such Code shall be presumptive evidence in all courts and places of the
ordinance and all provisions, sections, penalties and regulations signed,
attested, recorded, and approved and that any public hearings and notices
thereof as required by law have been given.
Section 6.   This ordinance is declared to be an emergency measure necessary
for the immediate preservation of the peace, health, safety and general welfare
of the people of this municipality, and shall take effect at the earliest date
provided by law.
PASSED AND ADOPTED by the Legislative Authority of the Political Subdivision on
this 7th day of September, 1999.
   Date of first public reading August 3, 19999
   Lyn Bailey /s/
   Mayor
Attest:   Jim Lancaster /s/
   City Clerk
ORDINANCE NUMBER 07-03
AN ORDINANCE ENACTING AND ADOPTING A SUPPLEMENT TO THE CODE OF ORDINANCES OF
THE CITY OF CADIZ, KENTUCKY
   WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati, Ohio has
completed the 2006 S-5 supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the City of
Cadiz, Kentucky, which supplement contains all ordinances of a general nature
enacted since the prior supplement to the Code of Ordinances of this
municipality; and
   WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation has recommended the revision
or addition of certain sections of the Code of Ordinances which are based on or
make references to sections of the Kentucky Revised Statutes; and
   WHEREAS, it is the intent of Council to accept these updated sections in
accordance with the changes of the law of the Commonwealth of Kentucky; and
   NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF CADIZ,
KENTUCKY:
   Section I:   That the 2006 S-5 supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the
City of Cadiz, Kentucky, as submitted by American Legal Publishing Corporation
of Cincinnati, and as attached hereto, be and the same is hereby adopted by
reference as if set out in its entirety.
   Section II:   That this ordinance shall take effect and be in force from and
after its date of passage, approval and publication as required by law.
Date of first reading: March 6, 2007.
Date of second reading: April 3, 2007.
    /s/
   LYN BAILEY, MAYOR
ATTEST:
/s/
Lisa Rogers, Interim City Clerk
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Chapter
   
10.   RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
CHAPTER 10: RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
Section
   
10.01   Short titles
   
10.02   Definitions
   
10.03   Rules of construction
   
10.04   Computation of time
   
10.05   Majority may act for all; authorized agent
   
10.06   Writings and signatures
   
10.07   Severability
   
10.08   Revivor
   
10.09   Rights and liabilities accruing before repeal of ordinance
   
10.10   Construction of section references
   
10.11   Ordinances repealed
   
10.12   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.13   Ordinances saved
   
10.14   Amendments to code; amendatory language
   
10.15   Conflicting provisions
   
10.16   Reference to offices
   
10.17   Errors and omissions
   
10.18   Historical and statutory references
 
   
10.99   Penalty
§ 10.01 SHORT TITLES.
   (A)   All ordinances of a permanent and general nature of the city as
revised, codified, rearranged, renumbered, and consolidated into component
codes, titles, chapters, and sections shall be known and designated as the
Cadiz Code, for which designation "codified ordinances" or "code" may be
substituted. Code, title, chapter, and section headings do not constitute any
part of the law as contained in the code.
(KRS 446.140)
   (B)   All references to codes, titles, chapters, and sections are to such
components of the code unless otherwise specified. Any component code may be
referred to and cited by its name, such as the "traffic code." Sections may be
referred to and cited by the designation "§" followed by the number, such as "§
10.01." Headings and captions used in this code other than the title, chapter,
and section numbers, are employed for reference purposes only and shall not be
deemed a part of the text of any section.
§ 10.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this code the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACTION. Includes all proceedings in any court of this state.
(KRS 446.010(1))
   AND. May be read OR, and OR may be read AND, if the sense requires it.
   ANIMAL. Includes every warm-blooded living creature except a human being.
(KRS 446.010(2))
   AVIS. The Automated Vehicle Information System established and maintained by
the Transportation Cabinet to collect tilting and registration information on
vehicles and boats and information on holders of motor vehicle operator’s
licenses and person identification cards.
(KRS 446.010(55))
   BUSINESS TRUST. Includes, except when utilized in KRS Chapter 386, a
“statutory trust” as organized under KRS Chapter 386A.
(KRS 446.010(6))
   CERTIFIED MAIL. Any method of governmental, commercial, or electronic
delivery that allows a document or package to have proof of:
      (1)   Sending the document or package;
      (2)   The date the document or package was delivered or delivery was
attempted; and
      (3)   The signature of the receipt of the document or package.
(KRS 446.010(8))
   CITY, MUNICIPAL CORPORATION, or MUNICIPALITY. When used in this code shall
denote the City of Cadiz irrespective of its population or legal
classification.
   COMPANY. May extend and be applied to any corporation, company, person,
partnership, joint stock company, or association.
(KRS 446.010(9))
   CORPORATION. May extend and be applied to any corporation, company,
partnership, joint stock company, or association.
(KRS 446.010(10))
   COUNCIL. The city legislative body.
(KRS 83A.010(5))
   COUNTY. Trigg County, Kentucky.
   CRUELTY. As applied to animals, includes every act or omission whereby
unjustifiable physical pain, suffering, or death is caused or permitted.
(KRS 446.010(12))
   DIRECTORS. When applied to corporations, includes managers or trustees.
(KRS 446.010(13))
   DOMESTIC. When applied to a corporation, partnership, business trust, or
limited liability company, means all those incorporated or formed by authority
of this state.
(KRS 446.010(14))
   DOMESTIC ANIMAL. Any animal converted to domestic habitat.
(KRS 446.010(15))
   EXECUTIVE AUTHORITY. The Mayor.
(KRS 83A.010(6))
   FEDERAL. Refers to the United States.
(KRS 446.010(17))
   FOREIGN. When applied to a corporation, partnership, business trust, or
limited liability company, includes all those incorporated or formed by
authority of any other state.
(KRS 446.010(18))
   KEEPER or PROPRIETOR. Includes all persons, whether acting by themselves or
as a servant, agent, or employee.
   KRS. Kentucky Revised Statutes.
   LAND or REAL ESTATE. Includes lands, tenements, and hereditaments and all
rights thereto and interest therein, other than a chattel interest.
(KRS 446.010(23))
   LEGISLATIVE BODY. The City Council.
(KRS 91A.010(8))
   LEGISLATIVE BODY MEMBER. A City Councilman.
(KRS 83A.010(8))
   LIVESTOCK. Cattle, sheep, swine, goats, horses, alpacas, llamas, buffaloes,
or any other animals of the bovine, ovine, porcine, caprine, equine, or camelid
species. (KRS 446.010 (25))
   MAY. The act referred to is permissive.
(KRS 446.010(26))
   MONTH. Calendar month.
(KRS 446.010(27))   
   MUNICIPALITY. The City of Cadiz, Kentucky.
   OATH. Includes AFFIRMATION in all cases in which an affirmation may be
substituted for an oath.
(KRS 446.010(28))
   PARTNERSHIP. Includes both general and limited partnerships.
(KRS 446.010(30))
   PEACE OFFICER. Includes sheriffs, constables granted police powers,
coroners, jailers, metropolitan and urban-county government correctional
officers, marshals, policemen, and other persons with similar authority to make
arrests.
(KRS 446.010(31))
   PERSON. May extend and be applied to bodies-politic and corporate,
societies, communities, the public generally, individuals, partnerships, joint
stock companies, and limited liability companies.
(KRS 446.010(33))
   REGISTERED MAIL. Any governmental, commercial, or electronic method of
delivery that allows a document or package to have:
      (1)   Its chain of custody recorded in a register to enable its location
to be tracked;
      (2)   Insurance available to cover its loss; and
      (3)   The signature of the recipient of the document or package available
to the sender.
(KRS 446.010(36))
   PERSONAL PROPERTY. Includes all property except real.
   PREMISES. As applied to property, includes land and buildings.
   PROPERTY. Includes real, personal, mixed estates and interests.
   PUBLIC AUTHORITY. Includes boards of education; the municipal, county,
state, or federal government, its officers or an agency thereof; or any duly
authorized public official.
   PUBLIC PLACE. Includes any street, sidewalk, park, cemetery, school yard,
body of water or watercourse, public conveyance, or any other place for the
sale of merchandise, public accommodation, or amusement.
   REAL PROPERTY. Includes lands, tenements, and hereditaments.
   REGULAR ELECTION. The election in even numbered years at which members of
Congress are elected and the election in odd numbered years at which state
officers are elected.
(KRS 446.010(37))
   SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory.
(KRS 446.010(39))
   SWORN. Includes AFFIRMED in all cases in which an affirmation may be
substituted for an oath.
(KRS 446.010(43))
   SIDEWALK. That portion of the street between the curb line and the adjacent
property line intended for the use of pedestrians.
   STATE. The State of Kentucky.
   STREET. Includes alleys, avenues, boulevards, lanes, roads, highways,
viaducts, and all other public thoroughfares within the city.
   SUBCHAPTER. A division of a chapter, designated in this code by a heading in
the chapter analysis and a capitalized heading in the body of the chapter,
setting apart a group of sections related by the subject matter of the heading.
Not all chapters have subchapters.
   TENANT or OCCUPANT. As applied to premises, includes any person holding a
written or oral lease, or who actually occupies the whole or any part of such
premises, alone or with others.
   VACANCY IN OFFICE. Such as exists when there is an unexpired part of a term
of office without a lawful incumbent therein, or when the person elected or
appointed to an office fails to qualify according to law, or when there has
been no election to fill the office at the time appointed by law; it applies
whether the vacancy is occasioned by death, resignation, removal from the
state, county, city, or district, or otherwise.
(KRS 446.010(46))
   VIOLATE. Includes failure to comply with.
(KRS 446.010(47))
   YEAR. Calendar year.
(KRS 446.010(49))
§ 10.03 RULES OF CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   Singular includes plural. A word importing the singular number only
may extend and be applied to several persons or things, as well as to one
person or thing, and a word importing the plural number only may extend and be
applied to one person or thing as well as to several persons or things.
(KRS 446.020(1))
   (B)   Masculine includes feminine. A word importing the masculine gender
only may extend and be applied to females as well as males.
(KRS 446.020(2))
   (C)   Liberal construction. All sections of this code shall be liberally
construed with a view to promote their objects and carry out the intent of
Council.
(KRS 446.080(1))
   (D)   Retroactivity. No ordinance shall be construed to be retroactive,
unless expressly so declared.
(KRS 446.080(3))
   (E)   Technical terms. All words and phrases shall be construed according to
the common and approved usage of language, but technical words and phrases and
such others as may have acquired a peculiar and appropriate meaning in the law,
shall be construed according to such meaning.
(KRS 446.080(4))
§ 10.04 COMPUTATION OF TIME.
   (A)   In computing any period of time prescribed or allowed by order of
court, or by any applicable ordinance or regulation, the day of the act, event,
or default after which the designated period of time begins to run is not to be
included. The last day of the period so computed is to be included, unless it
is a Saturday, a Sunday, a legal holiday, or a day on which the public office
in which a document is required to be filed is actually and legally closed, in
which event the period runs until the end of the next day which is not one of
the days just mentioned. When the period of time prescribed or allowed is less
than seven days, intermediate Saturdays, Sundays, and legal holidays shall be
excluded in the computation.
   (B)   When an ordinance, regulation, or order of court requires an act to be
done either a certain time before an event or a certain time before the day on
which an event occurs, the day of the event shall be excluded in computing the
time. If the day thereby computed on which or by which the act is required to
be done falls on a Saturday, Sunday, legal holiday, or a day on which the
public office in which the act is required to be completed is actually and
legally closed, the act may be done on the next day which is none of the days
just mentioned.
   (C)   If any proceeding is directed by law to take place, or any act is
directed to be done, on a particular day of a month and that day is Sunday, the
proceeding shall take place, or the act shall be done, on the next day that is
not a legal holiday.
(KRS 446.030)
   (D)   In all cases where the law requires any act to be done in a reasonable
time or reasonable notice to be given, such reasonable time or notice shall
mean the time only as may be necessary for the prompt performance of such duty
or compliance with such notice.
§ 10.05 MAJORITY MAY ACT FOR ALL; AUTHORIZED AGENT.
   (A)   Words giving authority to three or more public officers or other
persons shall be construed as giving such authority to a majority of such
officers or other persons.
(KRS 446.050)
   (B)   When the law requires an act to be done which may by law as well be
done by an agent as by the principal, such requirement shall be construed to
include such acts when done by an authorized agent.
§ 10.06 WRITINGS AND SIGNATURES.
   (A)   When this code requires any writing to be signed by a party thereto,
it shall not be deemed to be signed unless the signature is subscribed at the
end or close of the writing.
   (B)   Every writing contemplated by this code shall be in the English
language.
(KRS 446.060)
§ 10.07 SEVERABILITY.
   It shall be considered that it is the intent of Council in enacting any
ordinance, that if any part of the ordinance be held unconstitutional the
remaining parts shall remain in force, unless the ordinance provides otherwise,
or unless the remaining parts are so essentially and inseparably connected with
and dependent upon the unconstitutional part that it is apparent that Council
would not have enacted the remaining parts without the unconstitutional part,
or unless the remaining parts, standing alone, are incomplete and incapable of
being executed in accordance with the intent of Council.
(KRS 446.090)
§ 10.08 REVIVOR.
   (A)   A repealed ordinance without a delayed effective date is revived when
the ordinance that repealed it is repealed by another ordinance enacted at the
same meeting of Council.
   (B)   A repealed ordinance with a delayed effective date is revived by the
enactment of a repealer of the ordinance that repealed it at the same or any
subsequent meeting of Council as long as it takes effect prior to the effective
date of the original repealer.
   (C)   An amended ordinance without a delayed effective date remains
unchanged with respect to an amendment which is repealed at the same meeting of
Council which enacted the amendment.
   (D)   An amended ordinance with a delayed effective date remains unchanged
with respect to that amendment if the ordinance making the amendment is
repealed at the same or at a subsequent meeting of Council as long as the
repealing ordinance takes effect prior to the effective date of the original
amendment.
   (E)   No other action of Council repealing a repealer or an amendment shall
have the effect of reviving the original language of the repealer or amendment
as the case may be.
(KRS 446.100)
§ 10.09 RIGHTS AND LIABILITIES ACCRUING BEFORE REPEAL OF ORDINANCE.
   No new ordinance shall be construed to repeal a former ordinance as to any
offense committed against a former ordinance, nor as to any act done, or
penalty, forfeiture, or punishment incurred, or any right accrued or claim
arising under the former ordinance, or in any way whatever to affect any such
offense or act so committed or done, or any penalty, forfeiture, or punishment
so incurred, or any right accrued or claim arising before the new ordinance
takes effect, except that the proceedings thereafter had shall conform, so far
as practicable, to the laws in force at the time of such proceedings. If any
penalty, forfeiture, or punishment is mitigated by any provision of the new
ordinance, such provision may, by the consent of the party affected, be applied
to any judgment pronounced after the new ordinance takes effect.
(KRS 446.110)
§ 10.10 CONSTRUCTION OF SECTION REFERENCES.
   (A)   Wherever in a penalty section reference is made to a violation of a
section or an inclusive group of sections, such reference shall be construed to
mean a violation of any provision of the section or sections included in the
reference.
   (B)   References in the code to action taken or authorized under designated
sections of the code include, in every case, action taken or authorized under
the applicable legislative provision which is superseded by this code.
   (C)   Whenever in one section reference is made to another section hereof,
the reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified, or renumbered, unless the subject matter be
changed or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
§ 10.11 ORDINANCES REPEALED.
   This code, from and after its effective date, shall contain all of the
provisions of a general nature pertaining to the subjects herein enumerated and
embraced. All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated by this code
shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date of this code of
ordinances.
§ 10.12 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature and all other ordinances
pertaining to subjects not enumerated and embraced in this code of ordinances,
shall remain in full force and effect unless herein repealed expressly or by
necessary implication.
§ 10.13 ORDINANCES SAVED.
   Whenever an ordinance by its nature either authorizes or enables the
Council, or a certain city officer or employee, to make additional ordinances
or regulations for the purpose of carrying out the intent of the ordinance, all
ordinances and regulations of a similar nature serving such purpose effected
prior to the codification and not inconsistent thereto, shall remain in effect
and are saved.
§ 10.14 AMENDMENTS TO CODE; AMENDATORY LANGUAGE.
   (A)   Any chapter, section, or division amended or added to this code by
ordinances passed subsequent to this code may be numbered in accordance with
the numbering system of this code and printed for inclusion herein. Any
chapter, section, or division repealed by subsequent ordinances may be excluded
from this code by omission from reprinted pages. Subsequent ordinances as
printed or omitted shall be prima facie evidence of such subsequent ordinances
until Council shall adopt a new code of ordinances.
   (B)   The method of amendment set forth in §
32.37 should be used by the city to amend, add, or repeal a chapter, section,
or division of this code of ordinances.
§ 10.15 CONFLICTING PROVISIONS.
   If the provisions of different codes, chapters, or sections of the codified
ordinances conflict with or contravene each other, the provisions bearing the
latest passage date shall prevail. If the conflicting provisions bear the same
passage date, the conflict shall be so construed as to be consistent with the
meaning or legal effect of the questions of the subject matter taken as a
whole.
§ 10.16 REFERENCE TO OFFICES.
   Reference to a public office or officer shall be deemed to apply to any
office, officer, or employee of the city exercising the powers, duties, or
functions contemplated in the provision, irrespective of any transfer of
functions or change in the official title of the functionary.
§ 10.17 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error be discovered consisting of the misspelling of any word
or words, the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention
of the provisions affected, the use of a word or words to which no meaning can
be attached, or the use of a word or words when another word or words was
clearly intended to express the intention, the spelling shall be corrected, and
the word or words supplied, omitted, or substituted as will conform with the
manifest intention, and the provision shall have the same effect as though the
correct words were contained in the text as originally published. No alteration
shall be made or permitted if any question exists regarding the nature or
extent of such error.
§ 10.18 HISTORICAL AND STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   As histories for the code sections, the specific number and passage
date of the original ordinance, and the most recent three amending ordinances,
if any, are listed following the text of the code section. Example: (Ord. 10,
passed 5-13-60; Am. Ord. 15, passed 1-1-70; Am. Ord. 20, passed 1-1-80; Am.
Ord. 25, passed 1-1-85)
   (B)   If a KRS cite is included in the history, this indicates that the text
of the section reads word-for-word the same as the statute. Example: (KRS
83A.090) (Ord. 10, passed 1-17-80; Am. Ord. 20, passed 1-1-85). If a KRS cite
is set forth as a "statutory reference" following the text of the section, this
indicates that the reader should refer to that statute for further information.
Example:
      § 31.10 MAYOR.
         The executive authority of the city shall be vested in and exercised
by the Mayor.
      (Ord. 10, passed 1-1-80)
      Statutory reference:
         For powers and duties of the Mayor, see KRS 83A.130
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   Where an act or omission is prohibited or declared unlawful in this code of
ordinances, and no penalty is otherwise provided, the offense shall be deemed a
violation and the offender shall be fined not more than $250 for each offense.
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
Chapter
   
30.   MAYOR-COUNCIL PLAN
   
31.   CITY OFFICIALS
   
32.   CITY COUNCIL
   
33.   FINANCE AND REVENUE
   
34.   PUBLIC RECORDS
   
35.   TAXATION
   
36.   CITY ORGANIZATIONS
   
37.   PERSONNEL
   
38.   CODE OF ETHICS
   
39.   CITY POLICY
CHAPTER 30: MAYOR-COUNCIL PLAN
Section
   
30.01   Form of government
   
30.02   Governing officers
§ 30.01 FORM OF GOVERNMENT.
   The form of government provided for this city shall be known as the “Mayor-
Council Plan.”
(KRS 83A.130(1))
§ 30.02 GOVERNING OFFICERS.
   (A)   The city shall be governed by an elected executive who shall be called
Mayor and by an elected legislative body which shall be called the City
Council, and by such other officers and employees as are provided for by
statute or city ordinance.
(KRS 83A.130(2))
   (B)   The City Council shall be composed of not less than six nor more than
12 members as prescribed by ordinance. An ordinance amending the number of City
Council members shall be:
      (1)   Enacted and filed with the County Clerk by no later than the first
Wednesday after the first Monday in November of the year preceding the year in
which the legislative offices will appear on the ballot; and
      (2)   Crafted in such a manner that the amended number of City Council
members becomes effective on January 1 of the year following the election of
the number of City Council members specified in the amending ordinance.
(KRS 83A.030(1))
CHAPTER 31: CITY OFFICIALS
Section
General Provisions
   
31.01   Oath; bond
   
31.02   Compensation
   
31.03   Removal from office
Elected Officials
   
31.20   Election procedure
   
31.21   Mayor
   
31.22   Councilmembers
Nonelected City Officials
   
31.35   Establishment of nonelected city offices
   
31.36   City Clerk-Treasurer
   
31.37   Building Inspector
   
31.38   Public Works Director
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 31.01 OATH; BOND.
   (A)   Oath. Each officer of the city shall, before entering upon the
discharge of duties of his office, take the following oath: “I do solemnly
swear (or affirm, as the case may be) that I will support the Constitution of
this Commonwealth, and the Constitution of the United States, and be faithful
and true to the Commonwealth of Kentucky, so long as I continue a citizen
thereof, and that I will faithfully execute, to the best of my ability, the
office of           , according to law; and I do further solemnly swear (or
affirm) that, since the adoption of the present Constitution, I being a citizen
of this United States, have not fought a duel with deadly weapons within this
State, nor out of it, nor have I sent or accepted a challenge to fight a duel
with deadly weapons, nor have I acted as a second in carrying a challenge, nor
aided or assisted any person thus offending, so help me God,” as established by
section 228 of the Kentucky Constitution.
   (B)   Certification. Certification of the person administering the oath of
office to an elected official shall certify in writing that the oath was
administered and the date of its administration. Said certification shall be
filed in accordance with KRS 62.020.
   (C)   Bond.  
      (1)   All officers, officials, and employees of cities, counties, urban-
county governments, charter county governments, a Regional Wastewater
Commission and special districts who handle public funds in the execution of
their duties shall give a good and sufficient bond to the local governing body
for the faithful and honest performance of his or her duties and as security
for all money coming into that person's hands or under that person's control.
The bond amount shall be based upon the maximum amount of public funds the
officer, official, or employee handles at any given time during a fiscal year
cycle. The local governing body shall pay the cost of the bond.
      (2)   Elected officials who post bond as required by statute, and
employees of their offices covered by a blanket or umbrella bond, shall be
deemed to have complied with division (C)(1) of this section.
(KRS 65.067)
§ 31.02 COMPENSATION.
   (A)   City Council shall establish the compensation of every elected city
officer not later than the first Monday in May in the year in which the officer
is elected. An elected officer's compensation shall not be changed after his
election or during his term of office.
      (1)   In order to equate the compensation of Mayors and Councilmembers
with the purchasing power of the dollar, the Department for Local Government
computes by the second Friday in February of every year the annual increase or
decrease in the consumer price index of the preceding year by using 1949 as the
base year in accordance with section 246 of the Constitution of Kentucky, which
provides that the Mayor in cities of the first class shall be paid at a rate no
greater than $12,000 per annum and Mayors in cities other than the first class
and Councilmembers shall be paid at a rate no greater than $7,200 per annum.
      (2)   The City Council shall set the compensation of these officers in
accordance with KRS 83A.070 at a rate no greater than that stipulated by the
Department for Local Government.
   (B)   The City Council shall fix the compensation of each appointed city
officer by ordinance and may change it by ordinance.
   (C)   The City Council shall establish the compensation of city employees in
accordance with the personnel and pay classification plan ordinance of the
city.
   (D)   All fees and commissions authorized by law shall be paid into the city
treasury for the benefit of the city and shall not be retained by any officer
or employee.
Statutory reference:
   Compensation, see KRS 83A.070 and 83A.075
Case law reference:
   The limits on compensation contained in the Kentucky Constitution are not
absolute limits but rather increase or decrease in accordance with changes in
the consumer price index. See Matthews v Allen, 360 SW2d 248 (1948).
Editor's note:
   Compensation ordinances are not set forth in this code but are rather kept
on file and available for public inspection in the office of the City Clerk-
Treasurer.
§ 31.03 REMOVAL FROM OFFICE.
   (A)   Elected officers. Any elected officer, in case of misconduct,
inability, or willful neglect in the performance of the duties of his office,
may be removed from office by a unanimous vote of the members of the City
Council exclusive of any member to be removed, who shall not vote in the
deliberation of his removal. No elected officer shall be removed without having
been given the right to a full public hearing. The officer, if removed, has the
right to appeal to the circuit court of the county and the appeal shall be on
the record. No officer so removed is eligible to fill the office vacated before
the expiration of the term to which originally elected.
   (B)   Nonelected officers. Nonelected city officers may be removed by the
Mayor at will, unless otherwise provided by state law or ordinance.
Statutory reference:
   Removal of elected officers, see KRS 83A.040(9)
   Removal of nonelected officers, see KRS 83A.080(2)
ELECTED OFFICIALS
§ 31.20 ELECTION PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Election of city officers is governed by general election laws as
provided in KRS Chapters 116 through 121 unless City Council otherwise
prescribes by ordinance that election of city officers shall be under
nonpartisan city election laws as provided in KRS Chapter 83A. Such ordinance
shall become effective not later than 23 days prior to the date prescribed by
the election law generally for filing notification and declaration forms with
the County Clerk in a year in which a regular election is to be held in which
any city office is to be filled. Immediately subsequent to publication of any
ordinance prescribing that election of city officers be under nonpartisan city
election laws, a copy of the ordinance shall be filed with the County Clerk of
the county in which the city is located.
   (B)   The city may change the manner of election of city officers within the
provisions of division (A) of this section by ordinance, except that no change
shall be made earlier than five years from the last change.
   (C)   The city shall pay the costs of city elections only if city elections
are held at a time other than prescribed by law for elections generally.
   (D)   Each appointed and elected city office existing on July 15, 1980,
shall continue until abolished by ordinance, except that the offices of Mayor
and City Councilmembers may not be abolished.
   (E)   No abolition of any elected office shall take effect until expiration
of the term of the current holder of the office.
   (F)   No ordinance abolishing any elected office shall be enacted later than
240 days preceding the regular election for that office, except in the event of
a vacancy in the office.
   (G)   The city may not create any elected office. Existing elected offices
may be continued under provision of divisions (D), (E), and (F) above, but no
existing elected office may be changed.
   (H)   The form of the election of the Mayor and the legislative body of the
city has been and shall continue to be non-partisan and will forgo conducting a
primary election as provided for in KRS 83A.170 and 83A.045.
(Ord. 2000-67, passed 3-7-00)
Statutory reference:
   Election of city officers, see KRS 83A.050
   Creation, abolishment of city offices, see KRS 83A.080(4) , (5)
§ 31.21 MAYOR.
   (A)   Election; term of office. The Mayor of this city shall be elected by
the voters of the city at a regular election. A candidate for Mayor shall be a
resident of the city for not less than one year prior to his election. His or
her term of office begins on the first day of January following his or her
election and shall be for four years and until his or her successor qualifies.
If a person is elected or appointed as Mayor in response to a vacancy and
serves less than four calendar years, then that period of service shall not be
considered for purposes of re-election a term of office.
   (B)   Qualifications. The Mayor shall be at least 21 years of age, shall be
a qualified voter in the city, and shall reside in the city throughout his or
her term of office.
   (C)   Vacancy. If a vacancy occurs in the office of Mayor, Council shall
fill the vacancy within 30 days. If for any reason, any vacancy in the office
of Mayor is not filled within 30 days after it occurs, the Governor shall
promptly fill the vacancy by appointment of a qualified person who shall serve
for the same period as if otherwise appointed.
(KRS 83A.040(1), (2), (6))
      (1)   When voting to fill a vacancy in the office of Mayor, a member of
the City Council shall not vote for himself or herself.
(KRS 83A.040(2)(c))
      (2)   When voting to fill a vacancy created by the resignation of the
Mayor, the resigning Mayor shall not vote on his or her successor.
(KRS 83A.040(3))
      (3)   No vacancy by reason of a voluntary resignation in the office of
Mayor shall occur unless a written resignation which specifies the resignation
date is tendered to the City Council. The resignation may be submitted through
electronic mail if it originates from the official’s electronic mail address
and includes also the official’s handwritten signature. The resignation shall
be effective at the next regular or special meeting of the city legislative
body occurring on or after the date specified in the written letter of
resignation. If a resignation date is not specified, the written resignation
shall be deemed to become effective at the first regular or special meeting of
the City Council occurring on or after its receipt.
(KRS 83A.040(7))
      (4)   If a vacancy occurs in the office of Mayor which is required by law
to be filled temporarily by appointment, the City Council shall immediately
notify in writing both the County Clerk and the Secretary of State of the
vacancy.
(KRS 83A.040(8))
      (5)   The City Council shall elect from among its members an individual
to preside over meetings of the City Council during any vacancy in the office
of the Mayor in accordance with the provisions of KRS 83A.130.
(KRS 83A.040(2)(d))
   (D)   Powers and duties.
      (1)   The executive authority of the city is hereby vested in and shall
be exercised by the Mayor. The Mayor shall enforce the Mayor-Council Plan, city
ordinances and orders, and all applicable statutes. He shall supervise all
departments of city government and the conduct of all city officers and
employees under his jurisdiction and require each department to make reports to
him as required by ordinance or as he deems desirable.
      (2)   The Mayor shall maintain liaison with related units of local
government respecting interlocal contracting and joint activities.
      (3)   The Mayor shall report to the Council and to the public on the
condition and needs of city government as he finds appropriate or as required
by ordinance, but not less than annually. He shall make any recommendations for
actions by the Council he finds in the public interest.
(KRS 83A.130(3))
      (4)   Subject to disapproval of the Council, the Mayor shall promulgate
procedures to insure orderly administration of the functions of city government
and compliance with statutes or ordinances. Upon promulgation or upon revision
or rescission of the procedures, copies shall be filed with the person
responsible for maintaining city records.
(KRS 83A.130(4))
      (5)   Any delegation of the Mayor’s power, duties, or responsibilities to
subordinate officers and employees and any expression of his official authority
to fulfill executive functions shall be made by executive order. Executive
orders shall be sequentially numbered by years and kept in a permanent file.
(KRS 83A.130(7))
      (6)   All bonds, notes, contracts, and written obligations of the city
shall be made and executed by the Mayor or his agent designated by executive
order.
(KRS 83A.130(8))
      (7)   The Mayor shall be the appointing authority with power to appoint
and remove all city employees, including police officers, except as tenure and
terms of employment are protected by statute, ordinance, or contract and except
for employees of the Council.
(KRS 83A.130(9))
      (8)   The Mayor shall provide for the orderly continuation of the
functions of city government at any time he is unable to attend to the duties
of his office by delegating responsibility for any function to be performed, in
accordance with division (D)(5) above. However, the Mayor may not delegate the
responsibility of presiding at meetings of the Council, and the authority to
approve ordinances or promulgate administrative procedures may only be
delegated to an elected officer. With approval of the Council, the Mayor may
rescind any action taken in his absence under this section within 30 days of
such action. If for any reason the disability of the Mayor to attend to his
duties persists for 60 consecutive days, the office of Mayor may be declared
vacant by a majority vote of the Council and the provisions of § 31.21(C) shall
apply.
(KRS 83A.130(10))
Statutory reference:
   Continuity of government, see §
39.02
§ 31.22 COUNCILMEMBERS.
   For provisions concerning City Council, see
Chapter 32.
NONELECTED CITY OFFICIALS
§ 31.35 ESTABLISHMENT OF NONELECTED CITY OFFICES.
   (A)   All nonelected city offices shall be created by ordinance which shall
specify:
      (1)   Title of office;
      (2)   Powers and duties of office;
      (3)   Oath of office;
      (4)   Bond, if required; and
      (5)   Compensation, which may be specifically established or set by
reference to another ordinance in which the compensation is specifically
established.
   (B)   With the exception of the Police Chief and all city police officers,
all nonelected city officers shall be appointed by the Mayor with approval of
City Council. The Police Chief and all city police officers shall be appointed
by the Mayor at will and such appointments need not be approved by City
Council.
   (C)   All nonelected officers may be removed by the Mayor at will unless
otherwise provided by statute or ordinance.
   (D)   The following are nonelected city offices:
      (1)   City Clerk-Treasurer.
      (2)   Building Inspector.
Statutory reference:
   Nonelected city offices, see KRS 83A.080(1) - (3)
§ 31.36 CITY CLERK-TREASURER.
   (A)   The city hereby establishes the office of the City Clerk-Treasurer.
   (B)   The officeholder is not required to be a resident or registered voter
of the city. No fixed term of the office is authorized. In the event of a
vacancy a successor shall be appointed by the Mayor subject to the approval of
the legislative body.
   (C)   The duties and responsibilities of the Clerk-Treasurer shall include,
but are not limited to the following:
      (1)   Maintenance and safekeeping of the permanent records of the city;
      (2)   Performance of the duties required of the “official custodian” or
“custodian” pursuant to KRS 61.870 through 61.882;
      (3)   Possession of the seal of the city if used;
      (4)   No later than January 31 of each year, mail to the Department for
Local Government a list containing current city information including but not
limited to the following:
         (a)   The correct name of the Mayor, legislative body members, and the
following appointed officials who are serving as of January 1 of each year:
            1.   City Clerk-Treasurer;
            2.   City Manager;
            3.   City Attorney;
            4.   Finance Director;
            5.   Police Chief;
            6.   Fire Chief; and
            7.   Public Works Director;
         (b)   The correct name of the city, mailing address for city hall, and
telephone number of the city hall; and
         (c)   The name and telephone number of either an elected or appointed
official to serve as a contact person that may be reached during normal
business hours of 8:00 a.m. to 4:30 p.m.;
      (5)   Assists in the preparation of the agenda for and attends regular
and special meetings of the Council.
      (6)   Keeps full and accurate minutes of Council proceedings, recording
them before the regular meeting in a journal kept for that purpose.
      (7)   Prepares copies, for each Council member of all reports from the
various departments and any other correspondence relative to items on the
agenda for Council consideration.
      (8)   Advertises ordinances.
      (9)   Serves as immediate supervisor of the clerical personnel in the
Clerk's office.
      (10)   Prepares and mails notices relating to various taxes, assessments,
fees and receipts.
      (11)   Supervises and participates in the collection of taxes,
assessments, building permits, license fees, insurance premium taxes, special
use, parking fines, and other receipts.
      (12)   Balances cash drawers and prepares bank deposits.
      (13)   Accepts and processes occupational license, and miscellaneous
bills.
      (14)   Orders supplies, maintains office equipment, and issues purchase
orders within established guidelines.
      (15)   Collects delinquent taxes, assessments and fees.
      (16)   Prepares cash reports and maintains records relating to same.
      (17)   Answers complaints and assists in their resolution. Serves as
immediate supervisor of other clerical personnel in the Clerk's office.
      (18)   Assists in the issuance and collection of water, sewer and solid
waste collection bills.
      (19)   Prepares and maintains files for workmen's compensation program.
      (20)   Performance of all other duties and responsibilities required of
the City Clerk and City Treasurer by statute or ordinance.
          (21)   The City Clerk may also have the duties of Police Chief.
       (22)   Advise the executive authority of the city in policy formation on
overall problems of the city.
        (23)   Have major responsibility for preparation and administration of
operating and capital improvement budgets under direction of the executive
authority.
        (24)   Advise the executive authority of the city in the appointment of
subordinate administrative personnel if not delegated appointment authority by
appropriate order.
        (25)   Have continuing direct relationships with operating department
heads on implementation and administration of programs.
(KRS 83A.085)
   (D)   Compensation shall be in the amount as established by the City Council
from time to time as set forth in §
31.02.
   (E)   The clerk shall have professional training and experience sufficient
to insure competence.
   (F)   No person shall be appointed or act as the City Clerk unless such
person has taken the oath required by section 228 of the Constitution of the
Commonwealth of Kentucky and has provided bond, if required, with corporate
surety authorized to transact business in Kentucky and conditioned upon the
performance of the duties specified herein.
   (G)   The City Clerk may also have the alternate titles of City
Administrator or City Administrative Officer.
(Ord. 681, passed - -85; Am. Ord. 05-05, passed 9-6-05)
Statutory reference:
   Continuity of government, see §
39.02
§ 31.37 BUILDING INSPECTOR.
   (A) The city hereby establishes the office of Building Inspector which shall
be by appointment by the Mayor and approved by the City Council.
   (B) The Building Inspector shall review plans and specifications submitted
to him for the purpose of alterations, removing, excavating, and new
construction within the city. He is responsible for maintenance and safekeeping
of the zoning maps and the zoning ordinance. He prepares and issues building
permits and determines compliance with existing building codes of all proposals
reviewed.
(Ord. 685, passed - -85)
   (C) Compensation shall be in the amount as established by the City Council
from time to time.
   (D) No person shall be appointed or act as the Building Inspector unless the
person has taken the oath required by Section 228 of the Constitution of the
Commonwealth of Kentucky and has provided bond, if required, with corporate
surety authorized to transact business in Kentucky and conditioned upon the
performance of the duties specified herein.
Cross-reference:
   Building permit fees, see §
150.04
§ 31.38 PUBLIC WORKS DIRECTOR.
   (A)   The duties and responsibilities of the Public Works Director shall
include, but are not limited to the following:
      (1)   Supervise and direct all outside work as it pertains to the city.
      (2)   Performance of all other duties and responsibilities required of
the City Public Works Director by statute, ordinance, or as required by City
Council.
   (B)   The office holder is not required to be a resident or registered voter
of the city. No fixed term of the office is authorized. In the event of a
vacancy a successor shall be appointed by the Mayor subject to the approval of
the legislative body.
   (C)   Compensation shall be in the amount as established by the City Council
from time to time as set forth in §
31.02.
   (D)   No person shall be appointed or act as the Public Works Director
unless such person has taken the oath required by Section 228 of the
Constitution of the Commonwealth of Kentucky and has provided bond, if
required, with corporate surety authorized to transact business in Kentucky in
condition upon the performance of duties specified herein.
   (E)   The Public Works Director may also have all the duties of the Fire
Chief.
(Ord. 05-03, passed 9-6-05)
CHAPTER 32: CITY COUNCIL
Section
General Provisions
   
32.01   Members; election, qualifications, compensation
   
32.02   Vacancies
   
32.03   Powers and duties
Rules of Procedure
   
32.20   Mayor as Presiding Officer
   
32.21   Meetings
   
32.22   Quorum
Ordinances
   
32.35   One subject; title
   
32.36   Introduction; enacting clause
   
32.37   Form of amendment
   
32.38   Reading requirement; exception for emergency
   
32.39   Approval, disapproval by Mayor
   
32.40   Adoption of standard codes by reference
   
32.41   Official city records
   
32.42   Indexing and maintenance requirements
   
32.43   Publication requirements
   
32.44   Additional requirements for adoption may be established by city
   
32.45   Periodic review required
   
32.46   Municipal orders
   
32.47   Proved by Clerk; received in evidence
   
32.48   Legislative immunity
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 32.01 MEMBERS; ELECTION, QUALIFICATIONS, COMPENSATION.
   (A)   Election; term of office. Each Councilmember shall be elected at-large
by the voters of the city at a regular election. A candidate for City Council
shall be a resident of the city for not less than one year prior to his or her
election. Terms of office begin on the first day of January following the
election and shall be for two years.
   (B)   Qualifications. A member shall be at least 18 years of age, shall be a
qualified voter in the city, and shall reside in the city throughout his or her
term of office.
(KRS 83A.040(4))
   (C)   Compensation. For provisions concerning compensation, see §
31.02.
§ 32.02 VACANCIES.
   (A)   Vacancies. If one or more vacancies on Council occur in a way that one
or more members remain seated, the remaining members shall within 30 days fill
the vacancies one at a time, giving each new appointee reasonable notice of his
or her selection as will enable him or her to meet and act with the remaining
members in making further appointments until all vacancies are filled. If
vacancies occur in a way that all seats become vacant, the Governor shall
appoint qualified persons to fill the vacancies sufficient to constitute a
quorum. Remaining vacancies are filled as provided in this section.
(KRS 83A.040(5))
      (1)   No vacancy by reason of a voluntary resignation of a member of the
City Council shall occur unless a written resignation which specifies a
resignation date is tendered to the City Council. The resignation may be
submitted through electronic mail if it originates from the official’s
electronic mail address and includes also the official’s handwritten signature.
The resignation shall be effective at the next regular or special meeting of
the city legislative body occurring on or after the date specified in the
written letter of resignation. If a resignation date is not specified, the
written resignation shall be deemed to become effective at the first regular or
special meeting of the City Council occurring on or after its receipt.
(KRS 83A.040(7))
      (2)   If a vacancy occurs on the City Council which is required by law to
be filled temporarily by appointment, the City Council shall immediately notify
in writing both the County Clerk and the Secretary of State of the vacancy.
(KRS 83A.040(8))
   (B)   Failure to fill vacancies. If for any reason, any vacancy on Council
is not filled within 30 days after it occurs, the Governor shall promptly fill
the vacancy by appointment of a qualified person who shall serve for the same
period as if otherwise appointed.
(KRS 83A.040(6))
Statutory reference:
   Filling of vacancies for nonpartisan city office, see KRS 83A.175
§ 32.03 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   The legislative authority of the city is hereby vested in and shall be
exercised by the elected Council of the city. The Council may not perform any
executive functions except those functions assigned to it by statute.
(KRS 83A.130(11))
   (B)   The Council shall establish all appointive offices and the duties and
responsibilities of those offices and codes, rules, and regulations for the
public health, safety, and welfare.
(KRS 83A.130(12))
   (C)   The Council shall provide, by ordinance, for sufficient revenue to
operate city government and shall appropriate the funds of the city in a budget
which provides for the orderly management of city resources.
(KRS 83A.130(12))
   (D)   The Council may investigate all activities of city government. The
Council may require any city officer or employee to prepare and submit to it
sworn statements regarding the performance of his official duties. Any
statement required by the Council to be submitted or any investigation
undertaken by the Council, if any office, department, or agency under the
jurisdiction of the Mayor is involved, shall not be submitted or undertaken
unless and until written notice of the Council's action is given to the Mayor.
The Mayor may review any statement before submission to the Council and to
appear personally or through his designee on behalf of any department, office,
or agency in the course of any investigation.
(KRS 83A.130(13))
RULES OF PROCEDURE
§ 32.20 MAYOR AS PRESIDING OFFICER.
   (A)   The Mayor shall preside at meetings of the Council. The Council has
the authority to establish, by ordinance, the manner in which one of its number
may be selected to preside at meetings of the Council in the absence of the
Mayor.
   (B)   The Mayor may participate in Council proceedings, but shall not have a
vote, except that he may cast the deciding vote in case of a tie.
(KRS 83A.130(5))
Cross-reference:
   Council's responsibility to select one of its own members to preside when
there is vacancy in the office of Mayor, see §
31.21
§ 32.21 MEETINGS.
   (A)   Regular meetings of the Council shall be held once each month on the
first Tuesday of each month, at 6:00 p.m., based on the official time then
prevailing throughout Trigg County, and special meetings may be called as
provided by KRS 87.030.
(Ord. 632, passed 4-2-74; Am. Ord. 00-78, passed 3-6-01)
   (B)   The regular meeting place at which the Council shall hold its meetings
shall be at the City Hall.
   (C)   At a special meeting no business may be considered other than that set
forth in the designation of purpose.
   (D)   The minutes of every meeting shall be signed by the person responsible
for maintaining city records as provided under § 31.36 and by the officer
presiding at the meeting.
(KRS 83A.130(11))
§ 32.22 QUORUM.
   Unless otherwise provided by statute, a majority of the Council constitutes
a quorum and a vote of a majority of a quorum is sufficient to take action.
(KRS 83A.060(6))
ORDINANCES
§ 32.35 ONE SUBJECT; TITLE.
   Each ordinance shall embrace only one subject and shall have a title that
clearly states the subject.
(KRS 83A.060(1))
§ 32.36 INTRODUCTION; ENACTING CLAUSE.
   Each ordinance shall be introduced in writing and shall have an enacting
clause styled “Be it ordained by the City of Cadiz.”
(KRS 83A.060(2))
§ 32.37 FORM OF AMENDMENT.
   No ordinance shall be amended by reference to its title only, and ordinances
to amend shall set out in full the amended ordinance or section indicating any
text being added by a single solid line drawn underneath it. Text that is
intended to be removed shall be marked at the beginning with an opening bracket
and at the end with a closing bracket. The text between the brackets shall be
stricken through with a single solid line.
(KRS 83A.060(3))
§ 32.38 READING REQUIREMENT; EXCEPTION FOR EMERGENCY.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (B) of this section, no ordinance shall
be enacted until it has been read on two separate days. The reading of an
ordinance may be satisfied by stating the title and reading a summary rather
than the full text.
   (B)   In an emergency, upon the affirmative vote of two-thirds of the
membership, the Council may suspend the requirements of second reading and
publication in order for an ordinance to become effective by naming and
describing the emergency in the ordinance. Publication requirements of §
32.43 shall be complied with within ten days of the enactment of the emergency
ordinance.
(KRS 83A.060(4), (7))
§ 32.39 APPROVAL, DISAPPROVAL BY MAYOR.
   (A)   All ordinances adopted by the Council shall be submitted to the Mayor
who, within ten days after submission, shall either approve the ordinance by
affixing his signature or disapprove it by returning it to the Council together
with a statement of his objections.
   (B)   No ordinance shall take effect without the Mayor's approval unless he
fails to return it to the legislative body within ten days after receiving it
or unless the Council votes to override the Mayor's veto, upon reconsideration
of the ordinance not later than the second regular meeting following its
return, by the affirmative vote of one more than a majority of the membership.
(KRS 83A.130(6))
§ 32.40 ADOPTION OF STANDARD CODES BY REFERENCE.
   The Council may adopt the provisions of any local, statewide, or nationally
recognized standard code and codifications of entire bodies of local
legislation by an ordinance that identifies the subject matter by title,
source, and date and incorporates the adopted provisions by reference without
setting them out in full, if a copy accompanies the adopting ordinance and is
made a part of the permanent records of the city.
(KRS 83A.060(5))
§ 32.41 OFFICIAL CITY RECORDS.
   (A)   Every action of the Council is hereby made a part of the permanent
records of the city and on passage of an ordinance the vote of each member of
the Council shall be entered on the official record of the meeting.
   (B)   The Council has provided, under the provisions of §§
31.36(C) and
32.42, for the maintenance and safekeeping of the permanent records of the
city. The City Clerk and the presiding officer shall sign the official record
of each meeting.
(KRS 83A.060(8))
§ 32.42 INDEXING AND MAINTENANCE REQUIREMENTS.
   At the end of each month, all ordinances adopted in the city shall be
indexed and maintained by the City Clerk in the following manner:
   (A)   The city budget, appropriations of money, and tax levies shall be
maintained and indexed so that each fiscal year is kept separate from other
years.
   (B)   All other city ordinances shall be kept in the minute book or an
ordinance book in the order adopted and maintained in this code of ordinances.
(KRS 83A.060(8))
§ 32.43 PUBLICATION REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Except as provided in §
32.38(B), no ordinance shall be enforceable until published pursuant to KRS
Chapter 424.
   (B)   Ordinances may be published in full or in summary as designated by the
legislative body. If the legislative body elects to publish an ordinance in
summary, the summary shall be prepared and certified by an attorney licensed to
practice law in the Commonwealth of Kentucky and shall include the following:
      (1)   The title of the ordinance;
      (2)   A brief narrative setting forth the main points of the ordinance in
a way reasonably calculated to inform the public in a clear and understandable
manner of the meaning of the ordinance; and
      (3)   The full text of each section that imposes taxes or fees.
   (C)   Ordinances that include descriptions of real property may include a
sketch, drawing, or map, including common landmarks, such as streets or roads
in lieu of metes and bounds descriptions.
(KRS 83A.060(9))
§ 32.44 ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENTS FOR ADOPTION MAY BE ESTABLISHED BY CITY.
   The city may, by ordinance, specify additional requirements for adoption of
ordinances in greater detail than contained herein, but the city may not lessen
or reduce the substantial requirements of this chapter or any statute relating
to adoption of ordinances.
(KRS 83A.060(10))
§ 32.45 PERIODIC REVIEW REQUIRED.
   Not less than once every five years all ordinances in this code of
ordinances shall be examined for consistency with state law and with one
another and shall be revised to eliminate redundant, obsolete, inconsistent,
and invalid provisions.
(KRS 83A.060(11))
§ 32.46 MUNICIPAL ORDERS.
   (A)   Council may adopt municipal orders. All municipal orders shall be in
writing and shall be adopted only at an official meeting. Orders may be amended
only by a subsequent municipal order or ordinance. All orders adopted shall be
maintained in an official order book.
   (B)   In lieu of an ordinance, municipal orders may be used for matters
relating to the internal operation and functions of the city and to appoint or
remove or approve appointment or removal of members of boards, commissions, and
other agencies over which the Council has control.
(KRS 83A.060(12), (13))
§ 32.47 PROVED BY CLERK-TREASURER; RECEIVED IN EVIDENCE.
   All ordinances and orders of the city may be proved by the signature of the
City Clerk-Treasurer; and when the ordinances are placed in this code of
ordinances by authority of the city, the printed copy shall be received in
evidence by any state court without further proof of such ordinances.
(KRS 83A.060(14))
§ 32.48 LEGISLATIVE IMMUNITY.
   For anything said in debate, Councilmembers shall be entitled to the same
immunities and protections allowed to members of the General Assembly.
(KRS 83A.060(15))
Statutory reference:
   Privileges of members of General Assembly, see KRS 6.050 and Ky.
Constitution § 43
CHAPTER 33: FINANCE AND REVENUE
Section
Financial Administration
   
33.01   Definitions
   
33.02   Accounting records and financial reports
   
33.03   Annual budget ordinance
   
33.04   Annual audit of city funds
   
33.05   Official depositories; disbursement of city funds
Improvements
   
33.10   Definitions
   
33.11   Financing of improvements
   
33.12   Apportionment of cost
   
33.13   Comprehensive report required
   
33.14   Public hearing required
   
33.15   Adoption of ordinance; notice to affected owners
   
33.16   Affected owner may contest
   
33.17   When city may proceed; assessment constitutes lien
   
33.18   Effect of additional property or change in financing
Cross reference:
   Economic development incentives, see §
35.09
FINANCIAL ADMINISTRATION
§ 33.01 DEFINITIONS.
   As used in this subchapter, unless the context otherwise requires, the
following definitions shall apply:
   BUDGET. A proposed plan for raising and spending money for specified
programs, functions, activities, or objectives during a fiscal year.
   DEBT SERVICE. The sum of money required to pay installments of principal and
interest on bonds, notes, and other evidences of debt accruing within a fiscal
year and to maintain sinking funds.
   ENCUMBRANCES. Obligations in the form of purchase orders or contracts that
are chargeable to an appropriation. An obligation ceases to be an encumbrance
when paid or when the actual liability is recorded.
   FISCAL YEAR. The accounting period for the administration of fiscal
operations.
   GENERALLY ACCEPTED GOVERNMENTAL AUDITING STANDARDS. Those standards for
audit of governmental organizations, programs, activities and functions issued
by the Comptroller General of the United States.
(KRS 91A.010(6))
   GENERALLY ACCEPTED PRINCIPLES OF GOVERNMENTAL ACCOUNTING. Those standards
and procedures promulgated and recognized by the Governmental Accounting
Standards Board.
(KRS 91A.010(7))
§ 33.02 ACCOUNTING RECORDS AND FINANCIAL REPORTS.
   (A)   The city shall keep its accounting records and render financial
reports in such a way as to:
      (1)   Determine compliance with statutory provisions; and
      (2)   Determine fairly and with full disclosure the financial operations
of constituent funds and account groups of the city in conformity with
generally accepted governmental accounting principles.
   (B)   The municipal accounting system shall be organized and operated on a
fund basis.
(KRS 91A.020)
§ 33.03 ANNUAL BUDGET ORDINANCE.
   (A)   The city shall operate under an annual budget ordinance adopted and
administered in accordance with the provisions of this section. No moneys shall
be expended from any governmental or proprietary fund except in accordance with
a budget ordinance adopted pursuant to this section.
   (B)   Moneys held by the city as a trustee or agent for individuals, private
organizations, or other governmental units need not be included in the budget
ordinance.
   (C)   If in any fiscal year subsequent to a fiscal year in which the city
has adopted a budget ordinance in accordance with this section, no budget
ordinance is adopted, the budget ordinance of the previous fiscal year has full
force and effect as if readopted.
   (D)   The budget ordinance of the city shall cover one fiscal year.
   (E)   Preparation of the budget proposal shall be the responsibility of the
Mayor.
   (F)   The budget proposal shall be prepared in such form and detail as
follows:
      (1)   The annual budget proposal shall detail the raising of revenue from
all sources including grants and transfers, and the spending of money for
specified programs, functions, activities, or objectives of the city, including
all principle and interest due on debt, for the budget year. The total of
anticipated revenues shall equal or exceed the total of proposed expenditures.
      (2)   The form of the annual budget proposal shall be consistent inform,
to the extent practical, with the accounting system of the city.
      (3)   The annual budget proposal shall provide a complete program and
financial plan for all funds for the budget year.
      (4)   The annual budget proposal together with a budget message shall be
submitted to the legislative body not later than 30 days prior to the beginning
of the fiscal year.
      (5)   The annual budget proposal shall not provide for appropriations to
exceed revenues for the budget year.
(Ord. 674, passed 4-3-84)
   (G)   The budget proposal together with a budget message shall be submitted
to Council not later than 30 days prior to the beginning of the fiscal year it
covers. The budget message shall contain an explanation of the governmental
goals fixed by the budget for the coming fiscal year; explain important
features of the activities anticipated in the budget; set forth the reasons for
stated changes from the previous year in program goals, programs, and
appropriation levels; and explain any major changes in fiscal policy.
   (H)   (1)   Council may adopt the budget ordinance making appropriations for
the fiscal year in such sums as it finds sufficient and proper, whether greater
or less than the sums recommended in the budget proposal. The budget ordinance
may take any form that Council finds most efficient in enabling it to make the
necessary fiscal policy decisions.
      (2)   No budget ordinance shall be adopted which provides for
appropriations to exceed revenues in any one fiscal year in violation of
Section 157 of the Kentucky Constitution.
   (I)   The full amount estimated to be required for debt service during the
budget year shall be appropriated, for all governmental fund types.
   (J)   Council may amend the budget ordinance at any time after the
ordinance's adoption, so long as the amended ordinance continues to satisfy the
requirements of this section.
   (K)   Administration and implementation of an adopted budget ordinance shall
be the responsibility of the Mayor. Such responsibility includes the
preparation and submission to Council of operating statements, including
budgetary comparisons of each governmental fund for which an annual budget has
been adopted. Such reports shall be submitted not less than once every three
months in each fiscal year.
   (L)   To the extent practical, the system utilized in the administration and
implementation of the adopted budget ordinance shall be consistent in form with
the accounting system called for in §
33.02.
   (M)    No city agency, or member, director, officer, or employee of any city
agency, may bind the city in any way to any extent beyond the amount of money
at that time appropriated for the purpose of the agency. All contracts,
agreements, and obligations, express or implied, beyond such existing
appropriations are void; nor shall any city officer issue any bond,
certificate, or warrant for the payment of money by the city in any way to any
extent, beyond the balance of any appropriation made for the purpose.
(KRS 91A.030)
§ 33.04 ANNUAL AUDIT OF CITY FUNDS.
   (A)   Each city of the first through fifth class shall, after the close of
each fiscal year, cause each fund of the city to be audited by the Auditor of
Public Accounts or a certified public accountant. The audit shall be completed
by March 1 immediately following the fiscal year being audited. The city shall
forward an electronic copy of the audit report to the Department for Local
Government for information purposes by no later than April 1 immediately
following the fiscal year being audited.
   (B)   Each city required by this section to conduct an annual or biennial
audit shall enter into a written contract with the selected auditor. The
contract shall set forth all terms and conditions of the agreement which shall
include, but not be limited to, requirements that:
      (1)   The auditor be employed to examine the basic financial statements,
which shall include the government-wide and fund financial statements;
      (2)   The auditor shall include in the annual city audit report an
examination of local government economic assistance funds granted to the city
under KRS 42.450 to 42.495. The auditor shall include a certification with the
annual audit report that the funds were expended for the purpose intended.
      (3)   All audit information be prepared in accordance with generally
accepted governmental auditing standards which includes such tests of the
accounting records and such auditing procedures as considered necessary under
the circumstances. Where the audit is to cover the use of state or federal
funds, appropriate state or federal guidelines shall be utilized;
      (4)   The auditor shall prepare a typewritten or printed report
embodying:
         (a)   The basic financial statements and accompanying supplemental and
required supplemental information;
         (b)   The auditor’s opinion on the basic financial statements or
reasons why an opinion cannot be expressed; and
         (c)   Findings required to be reported as a result of the audit.
      (5)   The completed audit and all accompanying documentation shall be
presented to Council at a regular or special meeting.
      (6)   Any contract with a certified public accountant for an audit shall
require the accountant to forward a copy of the audit report and management
letters to the Auditor of Public Accounts upon request of the city or the
Auditor of Public Accounts, and the Auditor of Public Accounts shall have the
right to review the certified public accountant's workpapers upon request.
   (C)   A copy of an audit report which meets the requirements of this section
shall be considered satisfactory and final in meeting any official request to
the city for financial data, except for statutory or judicial requirements, or
requirements of the Legislative Research Commission necessary to carry out the
purposes of KRS 6.955 to 6.975.
   (D)   The city shall, within 30 days after the presentation of the audit to
the City Council, publish an advertisement, in accordance with KRS Chapter 424,
containing:
      (1)   The auditor’s opinion letter;
      (2)   The “Budgetary Comparison Schedules - Major Funds,” which shall
include the general fund and all major funds;
      (3)   A statement that a copy of the complete auditor’s report, including
financial statements and supplemental information, is on file at city hall and
is available for public inspection during normal business hours;
      (4)   A statement that any citizen may obtain from city hall a copy of
the complete audit report, including financial statements and supplemental
information, for his or her personal use;
      (5)   A statement which notifies citizens requesting a personal copy of
the city audit report that they will be charged for duplication costs at a rate
that shall not exceed $0.25 per page; and
      (6)   A statement that copies of the financial statement prepared in
accordance with KRS 424.220, when a financial statement is required by KRS
424.220, are available to the public at no cost at the business address of the
officer responsible for preparation of the statement.
   (E)   Any resident of the city or owner of real property within the city may
bring an action in the Circuit Court to enforce the provisions of this section.
Any person who violates any provision of this section shall be fined not less
than $50 nor more than $500. In addition, any officer who fails to comply with
any of the provisions of this section shall, for each failure, be subject to a
forfeiture of not less than $50 nor more than $500, in the discretion of the
court, which may be recovered only once, in a civil action brought by any
resident of the city. The costs of all proceedings, including a reasonable fee
for the attorney of the resident bringing the action, shall be assessed against
the unsuccessful party.
   (F)   Within a reasonable time after the completion of a special audit or
examination conducted pursuant to division (A), the auditor shall bill the city
for the actual expense of the audit or examination conducted. The actual
expense shall include the hours of work performed on the audit or examination
as well as reasonable associated costs, including but not limited to travel
costs. The bill submitted to the city shall include a statement of the hourly
rate, total hours, and total costs for the entire audit or examination.
(KRS 91A.040)
Statutory reference:
   Department for Local Government to provide assistance, see KRS 91A.050.
§ 33.05 OFFICIAL DEPOSITORIES; DISBURSEMENT OF CITY FUNDS.
   (A)   The Mayor shall designate as the city's official depositories one or
more banks, federally insured savings and loan companies, or trust companies
within the Commonwealth. The amount of funds on deposit in an official
depository shall be fully insured by deposit insurance or collateralized in
accordance with 12 U.S.C. sec. 1823, to the extent uninsured, by any
obligations, including surety bonds permitted by KRS 41.240(4).
   (B)   All receipts from any source of city money or money for which the city
is responsible, which has not been otherwise invested or deposited in a manner
authorized by law, shall be deposited in official depositories. All city funds
shall be disbursed by written authorization approved by the Mayor which states
the name of the person to whom funds are payable, the purpose of the payment,
and the fund out of which the funds are payable. Each authorization shall be
numbered and recorded.
(KRS 91A.060)
IMPROVEMENTS
§ 33.10 DEFINITIONS.
   As used in this subchapter, unless the context otherwise requires, the
following definitions shall apply:
   ASSESSED VALUE BASIS. The apportionment of cost of an improvement according
to the ratio the assessed value of individual parcels of property bears to the
total assessed value of all such properties.
   BENEFITS RECEIVED BASIS. The apportionment of cost of an improvement
according to equitable determination by Council of the special benefit received
by property from the improvement, including assessed value basis, front foot
basis, and square foot basis, or any combination thereof, and may include
consideration of assessed value of land only, graduation for different classes
of property based on nature and extent of special benefits received, and other
factors affecting benefits received.
   COST. All costs related to an improvement, including planning, design,
property or easement acquisition and construction costs, fiscal and legal fees,
financing costs, and publication expenses.
   FAIR BASIS. Assessed value basis, front foot basis, square foot basis, or
benefits received basis.
   FRONT FOOT BASIS. The apportionment of cost of an improvement according to
the ratio the front footage on the improvement of individual parcels of
property bears to such front footage of all such properties.
   IMPROVEMENT. Construction of any facility for public use or services or any
addition thereto, which is of special benefit to specific properties in the
area served by such facility.
   PROPERTY. Any real property benefitted by an improvement.
   SPECIAL ASSESSMENT or ASSESSMENT. A special charge fixed on property to
finance an improvement in whole or in part.
   SQUARE FOOT BASIS. The apportionment of cost of an improvement according to
the ratio the square footage of individual parcels of property bears to the
square footage of all such property.
(KRS 91A.210)
§ 33.11 FINANCING OF IMPROVEMENTS.
   (A)   The city may not finance any improvement in whole or in part through
special assessments except as provided in this subchapter and in any applicable
statutes.
(KRS 91A.200)
   (B)   Cost of an improvement shall be apportioned equitably on a fair basis.
   (C)   The city may provide for lump sum or installment payment of
assessments or for bond or other long-term financing, and for any improvement
may afford property owners the option as to method of payment or financing.
(KRS 91A.220)
Statutory reference:
   Improvements; alternate methods, see KRS Chapter 107
§ 33.12 APPORTIONMENT OF COST.
   The cost of any improvement shall be apportioned on a benefits received
basis with respect to any property owned by the state, a local unit of
government, or any educational, religious, or charitable organization. Council
may assess such property in the same manner as for privately owned property or
it may pay the costs so apportioned out of general revenues.
(KRS 91A.230)
§ 33.13 COMPREHENSIVE REPORT REQUIRED.
   Before undertaking any improvements pursuant to this subchapter, the city
shall prepare a comprehensive report setting out:
   (A)   The nature of the improvement;
   (B)   The scope and the extent of the improvement, including the boundaries
or other description of the area to be assessed;
   (C)   The preliminary estimated cost of the improvement;
   (D)   The fair basis of assessment proposed;
   (E)   If financing of assessments is provided, the proposed method,
including the proposed years to maturity of any bonds to be issued in
connection with the improvement; and
   (F)   Such other information as may further explain material aspects of the
improvement, assessments, or financing.
(KRS 91A.240)
§ 33.14 PUBLIC HEARING REQUIRED.
   After preparation of the report required by §
33.13, the city shall hold at least one public hearing on the proposed
improvement at which all interested persons shall be heard. Notice of the
hearing shall be published pursuant to KRS Chapter 424, and mailed to each
affected property owner by certified mail, return receipt requested, and shall
include:
   (A)   The nature of the improvement;
   (B)   Description of area of the improvement;
   (C)   Statement that the city proposes to finance the improvement in whole
or in part by special assessment of property and the method to be used;
   (D)   Time and place the report may be examined; and
   (E)   Time and place of the hearing.
(KRS 91A.250)
§ 33.15 ADOPTION OF ORDINANCE; NOTICE TO AFFECTED OWNERS.
   Within 90 days of conclusion of the hearing, the city shall determine
whether to proceed with the improvement by special assessments, and if it
determines to proceed shall adopt an ordinance so stating and containing all
necessary terms, including the items referred to in §
33.13 and a description of all properties. Promptly upon passage the city shall
publish such ordinance pursuant to KRS Chapter 424 and shall mail by certified
mail to each affected property owner a notice of determination to proceed with
the project, the fair basis of assessment to be utilized, the estimated cost to
the property owner, and the ratio the cost to each property owner bears to the
total cost of the entire project.
(KRS 91A.260)
§ 33.16 AFFECTED OWNER MAY CONTEST.
   (A)   Within 30 days of the mailing of the notice provided for in §
33.15, any affected property owner may file an action in the circuit court of
the county, contesting the undertaking of the project by special assessment,
the inclusion of his property in the improvement, or the amount of his
assessment. If the action contests the undertaking of the improvement by the
special assessment method of the inclusion of the property of that property
owner, no further action on the improvement insofar as it relates to any
property owner who is a plaintiff shall be taken until the final judgment has
been entered.
   (B)   The city may proceed with the improvement with respect to any
properties whose owners have not filed or joined in an action as provided in
this section or who have contested only the amounts of their assessments, and
the provisions of the resolution are final and binding with respect to such
property owners except as to contested amounts of assessments. After the lapse
of time as herein provided, all actions by owners of properties are forever
barred.
(KRS 91A.270)
§ 33.17 WHEN CITY MAY PROCEED; ASSESSMENT CONSTITUTES LIEN.
   (A)   After the passage of time for the action provided for in §
33.16, or after favorable final judgment in any such action, whichever comes
later, the city may proceed with the improvement or part thereof stayed by the
action, including notice requiring payment of special assessment or installment
thereon and bonds or other method proposed to finance the improvement. The
first installment may be apportioned so that other payments will coincide with
payment of ad valorem taxes.
   (B)   The amount of any outstanding assessment or installments thereof on
any property, and accrued interest and other charges, constitutes a lien on the
property to secure payment to the bondholders or any other source of financing
of the improvement. The lien takes precedence over all other liens, whether
created prior to or subsequent to the publication of the ordinance, except a
lien for state and county taxes, general municipal taxes, and prior improvement
taxes, and is not defeated or postponed by any private or judicial sale, by any
mortgage, or by any error or mistake in the description of the property or in
the names of the owners. No error in the proceedings of the Council shall
exempt any benefitted property from the lien for the improvement assessment, or
from payment thereof, or from the penalties or interest thereon, as herein
provided.
(KRS 91A.280)
§ 33.18 EFFECT OF ADDITIONAL PROPERTY OR CHANGE IN FINANCING.
   The city may undertake any further proceedings to carry out the improvement
or any extension or refinancing thereof, except that §§
33.13 through
33.17 applies if additional property is included in the improvement or if
change is made in the method or period of financing; but additional property
may be included in the improvement with the consent of the owner thereof
without compliance with other sections if it does not increase the cost
apportioned to any other property, or any other change may be made without such
compliance if all property owners of the improvement consent.
(KRS 91A.290)
CHAPTER 34: PUBLIC RECORDS
Section
General Provisions
   
34.01   Definitions
Procedures for Requesting Public Records
   
34.05   Initial request with immediate inspection
   
34.06   Referral to proper custodian
   
34.07   Public records not immediately available
   
34.08   Refusal of unreasonable requests
   
34.09   Time limitation; denial of inspection
   
34.10   Concealing or destroying records prohibited
   
34.11   Access to records relating to particular individual
   
34.12   Format of copies
   
34.13   Fees for copies
   
34.14   Misstatement of purpose prohibited
   
34.15   Online access to public records in electronic form
   
34.16   Public records protected from disclosure
   
34.17   Notification of the Attorney General
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 34.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For purposes of this chapter the following words and phrases shall have the
following meanings ascribed to them respectively.
   CITY. The city government of this city.
   COMMERCIAL PURPOSE. The direct or indirect use of any part of a public
record or records, in any form, for sale, resale, solicitation, rent, or lease
of a service, or any use by which the user expects a profit either through
commission, salary, or fee. COMMERCIAL PURPOSE shall not include:
      (1)   Publication or related use of a public record by a newspaper or
periodical;
      (2)   Use of a public record by a radio or television station in its news
or other informational programs; or
      (3)   Use of a public record in the preparation for prosecution or
defense of litigation, or claims settlement by the parties to such action, or
the attorneys representing the parties.
   CUSTODIAN. The official custodian or any authorized person having personal
custody and control of public records. The CUSTODIAN having personal custody of
most of the public records of this city is the City Clerk-Treasurer.
   MECHANICAL PROCESSING. Any operation or other procedure which is transacted
on a machine, and which may include, but is not limited to a copier, computer,
recorder or tape processor, or other automated device.
   MEDIA. The physical material in or on which records may be stored or
represented, and which may include, but is not limited to paper, microform,
disks, diskettes, optical disks, magnetic tapes, and cards.
   OFFICIAL CUSTODIAN. The chief administrative officer or any other officer or
employee of a public agency who is responsible for the maintenance, care, and
keeping of public records, regardless of whether such records are in his actual
personal custody and control. The OFFICIAL CUSTODIAN of this city shall be the
Mayor.
   PERSON. A human being who makes a request for inspection of public records.
   PRESCRIBED FEE or FEE. The fair payment required by the city for making
copies of public records and for mailing public records, which shall not exceed
the actual cost thereof and shall not include the cost of required staff time.
   PUBLIC AGENCY. The city, including its legislative body and every officer,
department and division of the city; every entity created by authority of the
city; any board, commission, committee, subcommittee, ad hoc committee,
advisory committee, council or agency created and controlled by the city; and
any interagency body in which the city participates.
   PUBLIC RECORDS. All books, papers, maps, photographs, cards, tapes, discs,
diskettes, recordings, software, or other documentation regardless of physical
form or characteristics, which are prepared, owned, used, in the possession of
or retained by the public agency. PUBLIC RECORDS shall not include any records
owned or maintained by or for the public agency that are not related to
functions, activities, programs, or operations funded by the public agency nor
any records that may be excluded by §
34.16.
   REQUEST. An oral or written application by any person to inspect public
records of the agency.
   RESIDENT OF THE COMMONWEALTH.
      (1)   An individual residing in the Commonwealth;
      (2)   A domestic business entity with a location in the Commonwealth;
      (3)   A foreign business entity registered with the Secretary of State;
      (4)   An individual that is employed and works at a location or locations
within the Commonwealth;
      (5)   An individual or business entity that owns real property within the
Commonwealth;
      (6)   Any individual or business entity that has been authorized to act
on behalf of an individual or business entity defined in divisions (1) through
(5); or
      (7)   A news-gathering organization as defined in KRS 189.635(9)(b)1.a.
to e.
   SOFTWARE. The program code which makes a computer system function, but does
not include that portion of the program code which contains public records
exempted from inspection as provided by KRS 61.878 or specific addresses of
files, passwords, access codes, user identifications, or any other mechanism
for controlling the security or restricting access to public records in the
public agency's computer system. SOFTWARE consists of the operating system,
application programs, procedures, routines, and subroutines such as translators
and utility programs, but does not include that material which is prohibited
from disclosure or copying by a license agreement between a public agency and
an outside entity which supplied the material to the agency.
(KRS 61.870)
PROCEDURES FOR REQUESTING PUBLIC RECORDS
§ 34.05 INITIAL REQUEST WITH IMMEDIATE INSPECTION.
   (A)   Any person desiring to inspect or copy the public records of this city
shall make a request for inspection at the office of the City Clerk-Treasurer
during regular office hours, except during legal holidays. The official
custodian, or the custodian acting under the authority of the official
custodian, may require a request to inspect public records to be in writing,
signed by the applicant and with the applicant's name printed legibly on the
application. A written request to inspect public records may be presented by
hand delivery, mail or via facsimile, if one is available.
   (B)   If the custodian determines that a person's request is in compliance
with this chapter and the open records law, and the requested public records
are immediately available, the custodian shall deliver the records for
inspection. A person may inspect public records at the designated office of the
city during the regular office hours, or in appropriate cases, by receiving
copies of the records through the mail.
   (C)   If the public records are to be inspected at the offices of the city,
suitable facilities shall be made available in the office of the City Clerk-
Treasurer or in another office of the city as determined by the official
custodian or custodian for the inspection. No person shall remove original
copies of public records from the offices of the city without the written
permission of the official custodian of the record. When public records are
inspected at the city offices, the person inspecting the records shall have the
right to make abstracts and memoranda of the public records and to obtain
copies of all written public records. When copies are requested, the custodian
may require advance payment of the prescribed fee.
   (D)   Upon proper request, the city shall mail copies of the public records
to a person whose residence or principal place of business is located outside
of the county after the person precisely describes the public records which are
readily available and after the person pays in advance the prescribed fee.
§ 34.06 REFERRAL TO PROPER CUSTODIAN.
   If the City Clerk-Treasurer does not have custody or control of the public
record or records requested, the City Clerk-Treasurer shall notify the
applicant and shall furnish the name and location of the official custodian of
the agency's public records.
(KRS 61.872(4))
§ 34.07 PUBLIC RECORDS NOT IMMEDIATELY AVAILABLE.
   If the public record is in active use, in storage, or not otherwise
available, the official custodian shall immediately notify the applicant and
shall designate a place, time, and date for inspection or mailing of the public
records, not to exceed five days (excepting Saturdays, Sundays, and legal
holidays) from receipt of the application, unless a detailed explanation of the
cause is given for further delay and the place, time, and earliest date on
which the public record will be available for inspection or duplication.
(KRS 61.872(5))
§ 34.08 REFUSAL OF UNREASONABLE REQUESTS.
   If the application places an unreasonable burden in producing public
records, or if the custodian has reason to believe that repeated requests are
intended to disrupt other essential functions of the public agency, the
official custodian may refuse to permit inspection of the public records or
mail copies thereof. However, refusal under this section must be sustained by
clear and convincing evidence.
(KRS 61.872(6))
§ 34.09 TIME LIMITATION; DENIAL OF INSPECTION.
   The official custodian, upon any request for records made under this
chapter, shall determine within five days (excepting Saturdays, Sundays, and
legal holidays) after the receipt of any request whether to comply with the
request and shall notify in writing the person making the request within the
five-day period of its decision. Any agency response denying, in whole or in
part, inspection of any record shall include a statement of the specific
exception authorizing the withholding of the record and a brief explanation of
how the exception applies to the record withheld. The response shall be issued
by the official custodian or under his authority and shall constitute final
agency action.
(KRS 61.880)
§ 34.10 CONCEALING OR DESTROYING RECORDS PROHIBITED.
   No official of the city shall willfully conceal or destroy any record with
the intent to violate the provisions of this chapter or these rules and
regulations.
§ 34.11 ACCESS TO RECORDS RELATING TO PARTICULAR INDIVIDUAL.
   Any person shall have access to any public record relating to him or in
which he is mentioned by name, upon presentation of appropriate identification,
subject to the provisions of §
34.16 of these rules and regulations.
(KRS 61.884)
§ 34.12 FORMAT OF COPIES.
   (A)   Upon inspection, the applicant shall have the right to make abstracts
of the public records and memoranda thereof, and to obtain copies of all public
records not exempted by the terms of §
34.16. When copies are requested, the custodian may require a written request
and advance payment of the prescribed fee, including postage where appropriate.
If the applicant desires copies of public records other than written records,
the custodian of the records shall duplicate the records or permit the
applicant to duplicate the records; however, the custodian shall ensure that
such duplication will not damage or alter the original records.
   (B)   (1)   Nonexempt public records used for noncommercial purposes shall
be available for copying in either standard electronic or standard hard copy
format, as designated by the party requesting the records, where the agency
currently maintains the records in electronic format. Nonexempt public records
used for noncommercial purposes shall be copied in standard hard copy format
where agencies currently maintain records in hard copy format. Agencies are not
required to convert hard copy format records to electronic formats.
      (2)   The minimum standard format in paper form shall be defined as not
less than 8½ inches x 11 inches in at least one color on white paper, or for
electronic format, in a flat file electronic American Standard Code for
Information Interchange (ASCII) format. If the public agency maintains
electronic public records in a format other than ASCII, and the format conforms
to the requestor's requirements, the public record may be provided in this
alternate electronic format for standard fees as specified by the public
agency. Any request for a public record in a form other than the forms
described in this section shall be considered a nonstandardized request.
(KRS 61.874(1) - (3))
§ 34.13 FEES FOR COPIES.
   (A)   The public agency may prescribe a reasonable fee for making copies of
nonexempt public records requested for use for noncommercial purposes which
shall not exceed the actual cost of reproduction, including the costs of the
media and any mechanical processing cost incurred by the public agency, but not
including the cost of staff required. If a public agency is asked to produce a
record in a nonstandardized format, or to tailor the format to meet the request
of an individual or a group, the public agency may at its discretion provide
the requested format and recover staff costs as well as any actual costs
incurred.
   (B)   (1)   Unless an enactment of the General Assembly prohibits the
disclosure of public records to persons who intend to use them for commercial
purposes, if copies of nonexempt public records are requested for commercial
purposes, the public agency may establish a reasonable fee.
      (2)   The public agency from which copies of nonexempt public records are
requested for a commercial purpose may require a certified statement from the
requestor stating the commercial purpose for which they shall be used, and may
require the requestor to enter into a contract with the agency. The contract
shall permit use of the public records for the stated commercial purpose for a
specified fee.
      (3)   The fee provided for in division (B)(1) of this section may be
based on one or both of the following:
         (a)   Cost to the public agency of media, mechanical processing, and
staff required to produce a copy of the public record or records;
         (b)   Cost to the public agency of the creation, purchase, or other
acquisition of the public records.
(KRS 61.874(3), (4))
Cross-reference:
   Fees for online access to public records, see §
34.15
§ 34.14 MISSTATEMENT OF PURPOSE PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for a person to obtain a copy of any part of a public
record for a:
   (A)   Commercial purpose, without stating the commercial purpose, if a
certified statement from the requestor was required by the public agency
pursuant to §
34.13;
   (B)   Commercial purpose, if the person uses or knowingly allows the use of
the public record for a different commercial purpose; or
   (C)   Noncommercial purpose, if the person uses or knowingly allows the use
of the public record for a commercial purpose. A newspaper, periodical, radio
or television station shall not be held to have used or knowingly allowed the
use of the public record for a commercial purpose merely because of its
publication or broadcast, unless it has also given its express permission for
that commercial use.
(KRS 61.874(5))
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 34.15 ONLINE ACCESS TO PUBLIC RECORDS IN ELECTRONIC FORM.
   (A)   Online access to public records in electronic form may be provided and
made available at the discretion of the public agency. If a party wishes to
access public records by electronic means and the public agency agrees to
provide online access, a public agency may require that the party enter into a
contract, license, or other agreement with the agency, and may charge fees for
these agreements.
   (B)   Fees shall not exceed:
      (1)   The cost of physical connection to the system and reasonable cost
of computer time access charges; and
      (2)   If the records are requested for a commercial purpose, a reasonable
fee based on the factors set forth in §
34.13.
(KRS 61.874(6))
§ 34.16 PUBLIC RECORDS PROTECTED FROM DISCLOSURE.
   (A)   The following public records are excluded from the application of this
chapter and these rules and regulations and shall be subject to inspection only
upon order of a court of competent jurisdiction, except as provided in KRS
61.878(1) that no court shall authorize the inspection by any party of any
materials pertaining to civil litigation beyond that which is provided by the
Rules of Civil Procedure governing pretrial discovery:
      (1)   Public records containing information of a personal nature where
the public disclosure thereof would constitute a clearly unwarranted invasion
of personal privacy.
      (2)   Records confidentially disclosed to an agency and compiled and
maintained for scientific research. This exemption shall not, however, apply to
records the disclosure or publication of which is directed by other statute.
      (3)   (a)   Records confidentially disclosed to the agency, or required
by an agency to be disclosed to it, generally recognized as confidential or
proprietary, which if openly disclosed would permit an unfair commercial
advantage to competitors of the entity that disclosed the records.
         (b)   Records confidentially disclosed to an agency or required by an
agency to be disclosed to it, generally recognized as confidential or
proprietary, which are compiled and maintained:
            1.   In conjunction with an application for or the administration
of a loan or a grant;
            2.   In conjunction with an application for or the administration
of assessments, incentives, inducements, and tax credits as described in KRS
Chapter 154;
            3.   In conjunction with the regulation of commercial enterprise,
including mineral exploration records, unpatented, secret commercially valuable
plans, appliances, formulae, or processes, which are used for the making,
preparing, compounding, treating, or processing of articles or materials which
are trade commodities obtained from a person; or
            4.   For the grant or review of a license to do business.
         (c)   The exemptions provided for in divisions (A)(3)(a) and (b)
above, shall not apply to records the disclosure or publication of which is
directed by statute.
      (4)   Public records pertaining to a prospective location of a business
or industry where no previous public disclosure has been made of the business'
or industry's interest in locating in, relocating within, or expanding within
the Commonwealth. This exemption shall not include those records pertaining to
applications to agencies for permits or licenses necessary to do business or to
expand business operations within the state, except as provided in division (A)
(2) above.
      (5)   Public records which are developed by an agency in conjunction with
the regulation or supervision of financial institutions, including but not
limited to, banks, savings and loan associations, and credit unions, which
disclose the agency's internal examining or audit criteria and related
analytical methods.
      (6)   The contents of real estate appraisals or engineering or
feasibility estimates and evaluations made by or for a public agency relative
to the acquisition of property, until such time as all of the property has been
acquired. The law of eminent domain shall not be affected by this provision.
      (7)   Test questions, scoring keys, and other examination data used to
administer a licensing examination, examination for employment, or academic
examination before the exam is given or if it is to be given again.
      (8)   Records of law enforcement agencies or agencies involved in
administrative adjudication that were compiled in the process of detecting and
investigating statutory or regulatory violations, if the disclosure of the
information would harm the agency by revealing the identity of informants not
otherwise known or by premature release of information to be used in a
prospective law enforcement action or administrative adjudication. Unless
exempted by other provisions of this chapter, public records exempted under
this provision shall be open after enforcement action is completed or a
decision is made to take no action. The exemptions provided by this subdivision
shall not be used by the custodian of the records to delay or impede the
exercise of rights granted by this chapter.
      (9)   (a)   Public records the disclosure of which would have a
reasonable likelihood of threatening the public safety by exposing a
vulnerability in preventing, protecting against, mitigating, or responding to a
terrorist act and limited to:
            1.   Criticality lists resulting from consequence assessments;
            2.   Vulnerability assessments;
            3.   Antiterrorism protective measures and plans;
            4.   Counterterrorism measures and plans;
            5.   Security and response needs assessments;
            6.   Infrastructure records that expose a vulnerability referred to
in this division through the disclosure of the location, configuration, or
security of critical systems, including public utility critical systems. These
critical systems shall include but not be limited to information technology,
communication, electrical, fire suppression, ventilation, water, wastewater,
sewage, and gas systems;
            7.   The following records when their disclosure will expose a
vulnerability referred to in this division: detailed drawings, schematics,
maps, or specifications of structural elements, floor plans, and operating,
utility, or security systems of any building or facility owned, occupied,
leased, or maintained by a public agency; and
            8.   Records when their disclosure will expose a vulnerability
referred to in this division and that describe the exact physical location of
hazardous chemical, radiological, or biological materials.
         (b)   As used in this division, "terrorist act" means a criminal act
intended to:
            1.   Intimidate or coerce a public agency or all or part of the
civilian population;
            2.   Disrupt a system identified in division (A)(9)(a)6.; or
            3.   Cause massive destruction to a building or facility owned,
occupied, leased, or maintained by a public agency.
         (c)   On the same day that a public agency denies a request to inspect
a public record for a reason identified in this division, that public agency
shall forward a copy of the written denial of the request, referred to in KRS
61.880(1), to the executive director of the Kentucky Office of Homeland
Security and the Attorney General;
         (d)   Nothing in this division shall affect the obligations of a
public agency with respect to disclosure and availability of public records
under state environmental, health, and safety programs;
         (e)   The exemption established in this division shall not apply when
a member of the Kentucky General Assembly seeks to inspect a public record
identified in this division under the Open Records Law.
      (10)   Preliminary drafts, notes, or correspondence with private
individuals, other than correspondence which is intended to give notice of
final action of a public agency.
      (11)   Preliminary recommendations and preliminary memoranda in which
opinions are expressed or policies formulated or recommended.
      (12)    All public records or information the disclosure of which is
prohibited by federal law or regulation.
      (13)   Public records or information the disclosure of which is
prohibited or restricted or otherwise made confidential by enactment of the
General Assembly.
      (14)   (a)   Public records, the disclosure of which would have a
reasonable likelihood of threatening the public safety by exposing a
vulnerability in preventing, protecting against, mitigating, or responding to a
terrorist act, and limited to:
            1.   Criticality lists resulting from consequence assessments;
            2.   Vulnerability assessments;
            3.   Antiterrorism protective measures and plans;
            4.   Counterterrorism measures and plans;
            5.   Security and response needs assessments;
            6.    Infrastructure records that expose a vulnerability referred
to in this division through the disclosure of the location, configuration, or
security of critical systems, including public utility critical systems. These
critical systems shall include, but not be limited to, information technology,
communication, electrical, fire suppression, ventilation, water, wastewater,
sewage, and gas systems;
            7.    The following records, when their disclosure will expose a
vulnerability referred to in this division: detailed drawings, schematics,
maps, or specifications of structural elements, floor plans, and operating,
utility, or security systems of any building or facility owned, occupied,
leased, or maintained by a public agency; and
            8.   Records, when their disclosure will expose a vulnerability
referred to in this division, and that describe the exact physical location of
hazardous chemical, radiological, or biological materials.
         (b)   As used in this division, TERRORIST ACT means a criminal act
intended to:
            1.   Intimidate or coerce a public agency or all or part of the
civilian population;
            2.   Disrupt a system identified in division (A)(14)(a)(6) of this
section; or
            3.   Cause massive destruction to a building or facility owned,
occupied, leased, or maintained by a public agency.
         (c)   On the same day that a public agency denies a request to inspect
a public record for a reason identified in this division, that public agency
shall forward a copy of the written denial of the request, referred to in KRS
61.880(1), to the executive director of the Kentucky Office of Homeland
Security and the Attorney General.
         (d)   Nothing in this division shall affect the obligations of a
public agency with respect to disclosure and availability of public records
under state environmental, health, and safety programs.
         (e)   The exemption established in this division shall not apply when
a member of the Kentucky General Assembly seeks to inspect a public record
identified herein under the Open Records Law.
      (15)   Public or private records, including books, papers, maps,
photographs, cards, tapes, discs, diskettes, recordings, software, or other
documentation, regardless of physical form or characteristics, having historic,
literary, artistic, or commemorative value accepted by the archivist of a
public university, museum, or government depository from a donor or depositor
other than a public agency. This exemption shall apply to the extent that
nondisclosure is requested in writing by the donor or depositor of such
records, but shall not apply to records, the disclosure or publication of which
is mandated by another statute or by federal law;
      (16)   Records of a procurement process under KRS Chapter 45A or 56. This
exemption shall not apply after:
         (a)   A contract is awarded; or
         (b)   The procurement process is canceled without award of a contract
and there is a determination that the contract will not be resolicited;
      (17)   Except as provided in KRS 61.168, photographs or videos that
depict the death, killing, rape, or sexual assault of a person. However, such
photographs or videos shall be made available by the public agency to the
requesting party for viewing on the premises of the public agency, or a
mutually agreed upon location, at the request of:
         (a)   1.   Any victim depicted in the photographs or videos, his or
her immediate family, or legal representative;
            2.   Any involved insurance company or its representative; or
            3.   The legal representative of any involved party;
         (b)   Any state agency or political subdivision investigating official
misconduct; or
         (c)   A legal representative for a person under investigation for,
charged with, pled guilty to, or found guilty of a crime related to the
underlying incident. The person under investigation for, charged with, pled
guilty to, or found guilty of a crime related to the underlying incident or
their immediate family shall not be permitted to have access to the photographs
or videos;
      (18)   Records confidentially maintained by a law enforcement agency in
accordance with a wellness program, including an early intervention system, as
described in KRS 12.020; and
      (19)   Communications of a purely personal nature unrelated to any
governmental function.
   (B)   No exemption under this section shall be construed to prohibit
disclosure of statistical information not descriptive of any readily
identifiable person. In addition, if any public record contains material which
is not excepted under this section, the city shall separate the excepted and
make the nonexcepted material available for examination, subject to the
possible applicability of §
34.08.
   (C)   The provisions of this section shall in no way prohibit or limit the
exchange of public records or the sharing of information between public
agencies when the exchange is serving a legitimate governmental need or is
necessary in the performance of a legitimate government function.
   (D)   No exemption under this section shall be construed to deny, abridge,
or impede the right of a municipal employee, an applicant for employment, or an
eligible on a register to inspect and copy any record, including preliminary
and other supporting documentation, that relates to him. Such records shall
include, but not be limited to work plans, job performance, demotions,
evaluations, promotions, compensation, classification, reallocation, transfers,
layoffs, disciplinary actions, examination scores, and preliminary and other
supporting documentation. A city employee, applicant, or eligible shall not
have the right to inspect or copy any examination or any documents relating to
ongoing criminal or administrative investigations by any agency.
   (E)   When material is made available pursuant to a request under division
(18) of this section, the public agency shall not be required to make a copy of
the recording except as provided in KRS 61.169, and the requesting parties
shall not be limited in the number of times they may view the material.
(KRS 61.878)
§ 34.17 NOTIFICATION OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL.
   The official custodian shall notify the Attorney General of any actions
filed against the city in circuit court regarding the enforcement of the open
records law, KRS 61.870 to 61.884.
CHAPTER 35: TAXATION
Section
   
35.01   County assessment adopted
   
35.02   Due date; payment
   
35.03   Delinquency
   
35.04   Ad valorem taxes on motor vehicles
   
35.05   Disposition of funds
   
35.06   Property tax exemption
   
35.07   Bank franchise tax
   
35.08   Restaurant tax
   
35.09   Economic development incentives
   
35.10   Exemption of manufacturing establishments
§ 35.01 COUNTY ASSESSMENT ADOPTED.
   (A)   Pursuant to the authority granted in KRS 132.285, the city hereby
adopts the Trigg County assessment for all real and personal property situated
within the city as the basis of all ad valorem tax levies ordered or approved
by the City Council.
(Ord. 98-56, passed 10-6-98)
   (B)   The assessment as finally determined for county tax purposes shall
serve as the basis for all city levies for the fiscal year commencing after the
assessment date.
§ 35.02 DUE DATE; PAYMENT.
   All taxes, except ad valorem taxes on motor vehicles, shall become due on
December 1.
§ 35.03 DELINQUENCY.
   (A)   All city taxes, except ad valorem taxes on motor vehicles, shall
become delinquent on January 1 following their due dates.
   (B)   Any taxes not paid by December 31 shall be subject to a penalty of 10%
on the taxes due and unpaid. The delinquent taxpayer shall also pay all costs
and expenses incidental to any action taken by the city for collection of the
delinquent tax bill.
(Ord. 98-56, passed 10-6-98)
   (C)   Delinquent taxes shall be collectable under the provisions of the
state law relating to the collection of delinquent taxes by cities of the fifth
class.
§ 35.04 AD VALOREM TAXES ON MOTOR VEHICLES.
   (A)   All ad valorem taxes on motor vehicles shall be collected by the Trigg
County Clerk in accordance with KRS 134.800.
   (B)   Ad valorem taxes on motor vehicles shall become due and delinquent as
set forth in KRS 134.810 and any such taxes not paid by the date when they
become delinquent shall be subject to the penalty and interest specified in KRS
134.810.
§ 35.05 DISPOSITION OF FUNDS.
   All monies collected from the taxes levied in this chapter shall be paid
into the General Fund of the city to be used for the payment of proper
expenditures as determined by the City Council.
§ 35.06 PROPERTY TAX EXEMPTION.
   (A)   There is hereby created a partial property tax exemption to any owner
of a commercial facility in the downtown business district of Cadiz who elects
to participate in the Main Street Revitalization Program for the purpose of
making repairs, rehabilitation, restoration, or stabilization of any existing
improvements.
   (B)   To qualify for the partial exemption, an owner of such commercial
facility located in the area designated shall incur expenditures of a minimum
sum of $2,000 within a 12-month period of construction or renovation. Upon
application of the taxpayer seeking the partial tax exemption, the taxpayer
shall have the obligation to furnish verification to the reviewing city
official that such expenditures have been made as well as the cost of the
improvements.
   (C)   The amount of the property tax exemption from the city property tax
assessment shall be in the sum equal to the expenditures made but subject to
the minimum stated, provided however, that the maximum exemption shall not
exceed 50% of the total property tax assessment.
   (D)   Upon qualification for the exemption granted herein, such exemption
shall be for the five tax years following the qualification. Application for
the exemption shall be made with the City Clerk- Treasurer's Office not later
than six months following the completion of the qualifying improvements.
(Ord. 743, passed 3-5-91)
§ 35.07 BANK FRANCHISE AND LOCAL DEPOSIT TAX.
   (A)   Tax rate.  There is hereby imposed on all financial institutions, as
defined in KRS Chapter 136, located within the corporate limits of the city, a
franchise tax at the rate of 0.025% on all deposits, as defined in KRS Chapter
136, maintained by such financial institutions.
   (B)   Collection. For all tax years subsequent to the 1996 tax year, the
following timetable is hereby established:
      (1)   The city will issue tax bills to financial institutions no later
than December 1 of each year.
      (2)   Payment of the tax shall be due with a 2% discount by December 31
of each year, or without the discount by January 31 of each year.
   (C)   Lien. The city shall have a lien for taxes upon any and all property
subject to the tax imposed by these sections, which lien shall be superior to
all encumbrances prior or subsequent.
   (D)   Delinquency. All taxes due in accordance with these sections which are
not paid before January 31, for all tax years, shall be deemed delinquent, and
shall be subject to a penalty of 5%, and shall bear interest at the rate of 5%
per annum.
   (E)   Tax use. All moneys collected pursuant to this section shall be paid
into the general fund of the city to be used for the payment of proper
expenditures as determined by the City Council.
(Ord. 96-35, passed - -96)
Cross-reference:
   Business regulations, see Title XI
§ 35.08 RESTAURANT TAX.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      CITY. City of Cadiz, Kentucky.
      RESTAURANT. Any fixed or mobile business or portion thereof that engages
in the preparation and serving of ready-to-eat food or beverage to a consumer.
This term includes, but is not limited to, any restaurant, coffee shop, cafe,
tea room, sandwich shop, street vendor that prepares and serves ready-to-eat
food, peddler, itinerant merchant, or solicitor that prepares and serves ready-
to-eat food, or portion of grocery store, convenience store, or other business
that prepares and serves ready-to-eat food. This term does not include any
school cafeteria or temporary food service operation operated by a nonprofit
organization.
      TOURIST AND CONVENTION COMMISSION. The Cadiz-Trigg County Tourist and
Convention Commission.
   (B)   Levy, collection, and remittance of restaurant tax.
      (1)   A restaurant tax in the amount of 3% of the retail sales by all
restaurants doing business in the city is hereby levied.
      (2)   Every restaurant doing business in the city and having purchased an
annual business license from the city shall:
         (a)   Collect the restaurant tax levied pursuant to this section at
the time of sale of ready-to-eat food or beverage to a consumer; and
         (b)   By day 15 of every month remit to the City Clerk all restaurant
tax collected pursuant to this section during the preceding calendar month
along with a completed restaurant tax return on a form obtained from the City
Clerk.
      (3)   Every restaurant doing business in the city and purchasing an
itinerant merchant, peddler, or solicitor license shall at the time of
purchasing the license estimate all of its retail sales to be made in the city
during the term of the license, complete a restaurant tax return on a form
obtained from the City Clerk, and pay to the City Clerk all restaurant tax that
will be owed pursuant to this section.
   (C)   All restaurant tax moneys to be turned over to Tourist and Convention
Commission pursuant to KRS 91A.400. Pursuant to KRS 91A.400, all moneys
collected from the tax authorized by this section shall be turned over by the
City Clerk to the Tourist and Convention Commission.
   (D)   Investigative powers of City Clerk. To determine the accuracy of any
return filed or, if no return was filed when due, to determine the amount of
tax due pursuant to this section, the City Clerk or his or her designee shall
be permitted to examine the books, papers, and records of any restaurant doing
business in the city. The City Clerk may compel the production of any
restaurant's books, papers, records, and vendors' contact information. Any
restaurant shall, upon receipt of a written request from the City Clerk or his
or her designee, authorize its vendors to disclose to the City Clerk or his or
her designee the goods and services, including the quantity and price thereof,
furnished to the restaurant. In the event an investigation is conducted and it
is determined this section has been violated, the violator shall be responsible
for all costs of the investigation and collection in addition to any tax,
interest, or penalties otherwise owed.
   (E)   Information to remain confidential. No present or former employee of
the city shall intentionally and without authorization inspect or divulge any
information acquired by him or her of the affairs of any restaurant,
information regarding the tax returns or remittances required to be filed with
or remitted to the city, or any information produced by a hearing or
investigation insofar as the information may have to do with the affairs of the
restaurant's business. This prohibition does not extend to information required
in prosecutions for making false reports or returns for taxation or any other
infraction of the tax laws or in any way made a matter of public record.
Furthermore, this prohibition does not preclude furnishing any restaurant or
the restaurant's properly authorized agent with information respecting its own
return. Furthermore, this prohibition does not preclude any employee of the
city from testifying in any court or from introducing as evidence returns or
reports filed with the city in any action for violation of a city tax law or in
any action challenging a city tax law.
   (F)   Penalties.
      (1)   Any restaurant that fails to file a restaurant tax return or remit
the required restaurant tax when due shall be subject to a penalty equal to 5%
of the restaurant tax due. The total penalty levied pursuant to this section
shall not be less than $25.
      (2)   In addition to the penalties prescribed in this section, an amount
equal to 12% per annum simple interest shall accrue on any delinquent
restaurant tax. A fraction of a month is counted as an entire month.
      (3)   The city shall be entitled to recover from the violating restaurant
all costs and reasonable attorney's fees incurred by the city in enforcing any
provision of this section.
      (4)   Pursuant to KRS 83A.065(2), a violation of division (E) of this
section is expressly made a Class A misdemeanor subjecting the offender to
imprisonment for a term not to exceed 12 months and a criminal fine not to
exceed $500.
   (G)   Tourist and Convention Commission to provide annual budget to City
Council. The Tourist and Convention Commission shall each year within 30 days
of adopting its annual budget provide a copy of its budget to the City Council.
(Ord. 13-08, passed 5-7-13)
§ 35.09 ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT INCENTIVES.
   (A)   Definitions. For purposes of this section the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      CITY. The City of Cadiz, Kentucky.
      ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT PROJECT or PROJECT. A new or expanded business
activity that generates a minimum of $75,000 in city taxable wages each year by
a qualifying business.
      QUALIFYING BUSINESS. Any corporation, limited liability company,
partnership, limited partnership, sole proprietorship, business trust, or any
other legal entity in the city whose employees are  engaged in manufacturing,
service, tourism, technology, administrative, technical, retail, or
professional occupations and specifically excludes sexually oriented/adult
entertainment businesses.
   (B)   Types of incentives.
      (1)   The following job creation based economic development incentives
may be offered by the city to a qualifying business undertaking an economic
development project:
         (a)   1-50 new employees:            2/3 rebate of the payroll tax due
from the new employees for three years; and 100% rebate of the business license
tax due for two years.
         (b)   51-100 new employees:         2/3 rebate of the payroll tax due
from the new employees for five years; and 100% rebate of the business license
tax due for four years.
         (c)   101 or more new employees:         3/4 rebate of the payroll tax
due from the new employees for eight years; and 100% rebate of the business
license tax due for eight years.
         (d)   Additional incentives on a case-by-case basis as approved by the
City Council.
      (2)   The following economic development incentives may be offered by the
city to new or existing businesses:
         (a)   $10,000 of matching grants up to $2,500 per recipient per
calendar year for approved improvements and/or replacement of signage,
remodeling or refurbishing.
         (b)   Waiver of utility connection fees.
         (c)   Waiver of building permit fees.
         (d)   Additional incentives on a case-by-case basis as approved by the
City Council.
   (C)   Application and review procedure.
      (1)   A qualifying business seeking one or more economic development
incentives from the city may submit to the City Clerk the following:
         (a)   Description of the project;
         (b)   Name, address, and telephone number of authorized
representative;
         (c)   The number of new jobs to be created;
         (d)   The wages, salaries, bonuses, and commissions expected to be
paid and the amount of city employee withholdings expected to be generated by
the project;
         (e)   Description of entity's management capabilities;
         (f)   Marketing strategies; and
         (g)   Such other financial and non-financial information about the
entity deemed necessary by the city.
      (2)   Each submission shall be executed under oath by an authorized
representative of the qualifying business.
      (3)   The City Clerk shall transmit each submission meeting the
requirements set forth above to the city's Finance Committee for its
consideration.
      (4)   A qualifying business may make a presentation to the City Council
in further support of its application.
      (5)   After the city's Finance Committee's review of the submission, it
shall either reject the submission or recommend its approval by the City
Council. The City Council shall determine the specific economic development
incentive(s) to be provided.
   (D)   Written agreement required. Every qualifying business receiving any
economic development incentive from the city shall be required to execute a
written economic development incentive agreement with the city. The Mayor shall
be authorized to execute the written economic development incentive agreement
on behalf of the city.
   (E)   Reporting requirements. Every qualifying business shall certify in
writing one year after its project is completed and annually each year
thereafter during the term of its written economic development incentive
agreement with the city that the obligations set forth in its written economic
development incentive agreement with the city have been and continue to be
satisfied. Failure to provide this written certification by that date is an
event of default and invokes the city's right to a full refund, including
damages, attorney's fees, and collection costs.
   (F)   Events of default. If the qualifying business makes any material
misrepresentation on its economic development incentive application or
supporting documents, fails to meet the obligations set out in its written
economic development incentive agreement with the city, becomes insolvent,
fails to report or to remit employee withholdings from new or existing jobs,
files for bankruptcy or fails to pay any tax, license fee, penalty or other
charge or obligation to the city, then it shall be in default.
   (G)   Remedies. If the qualifying business becomes in default, then the
qualifying business shall refund to the city an amount equal to the total
economic development incentives rebated or paid, and the city shall have no
further obligation to provide any economic development incentives. The city may
use any efforts to collect such sums owed, and the qualifying business agrees
to pay any and all interest and expenses, including attorney's fees and costs
incurred by city.
(Ord. 17-13, passed 12-5-17)
§ 35.10 EXEMPTION OF MANUFACTURING ESTABLISHMENTS.
   (A)   Permissive exemption of manufacturing establishments from city
taxation. As permitted by KRS 92.300, the City Council may exempt manufacturing
establishments, including qualified data centers, from city taxation for a
period not exceeding five years as an inducement to their location in the city.
   (B)   Written agreement required. Every qualifying manufacturing
establishment receiving an exemption from taxation pursuant to this section
shall be required to execute a written agreement with the city, which may be
included in any such entity’s economic development incentive agreement entered
into pursuant to §
35.09. The Mayor shall be authorized to execute the written agreement on behalf
of the city.
(Ord. 21-06, passed 12-7-21)
CHAPTER 36: CITY ORGANIZATIONS
Section
Police Department
   
36.01   Chief of Police
   
36.02   Police officers
Volunteer Fire Department
   
36.15   Compensation for training
Code Enforcement Board
   
36.25   Definitions
   
36.26   Creation and membership
   
36.27   Enforcement powers
   
36.28   Appointment of members; term of office; removal from office; oath;
compensation
   
36.29   Organization of Board; meetings; quorum
   
36.30   Conflict of interest
   
36.31   Powers of the Code Enforcement Board
   
36.32   Enforcement proceedings
   
36.33   Hearing; notice; final order
   
36.34   Presentation of cases
   
36.35   Appeals; final judgment
   
36.36   Lien; fines; charges; fees
   
36.37   Lienholder notification system
   
36.38   Liens
   
36.39   Immediate action
POLICE DEPARTMENT
§ 36.01 CHIEF OF POLICE.
   (A)   There is hereby created the office of Police Chief of the city, which
shall be by appointment of the Mayor and approval by a vote of majority of the
city legislative body.
   (B)   No fixed term of office is authorized. In the event of a vacancy a
successor shall be appointed by the Mayor subject to the approval of the city
legislative body.
   (C)   The powers and duties of the Police Chief are as follows: Plans,
directs, and exercises general supervision over the work of the Department;
formulates and enforces regulations, work methods, and procedures; makes or
reviews all personnel assignments within the Department; reviews activities and
reports of officers; makes recommendations to the Mayor for the appointment,
promotion and dismissal of officers; enforces disciplinary measures when
necessary; ascertains that recruits and regular offices receive adequate
training in modern police methods and procedures; directs the preparation and
maintenance of police records and files; directs the investigation of major
criminal offenses; sees that reports are prepared for the Mayor, and the
Federal Bureau of Investigation; conducts division correspondence, requisitions
supplies, and recommends the purchase of necessary equipment; meets with and
answers questions for the public; attends police conferences and meets with
various commissions and citizen groups; performs related work as required.
   (D)   The oath of office shall be administered by the County Judge-Executive
of Trigg County. The Police Chief shall faithfully execute the duties and
responsibilities of the office of Police Chief and enforces the laws of the
State of Kentucky and the city as prescribed by law and ordinance.
   (E)   The office of the Chief of Police shall be paid in an amount as
established by ordinance from time to time.
(Ord. 682, passed - -85)
§ 36.02 POLICE OFFICERS.
   (A)   The city hereby declares its intention to participate in the Law
Enforcement Foundation Program established by KRS 15.410 to 15.510.
   (B)   Each officer of the Police Department shall be paid an annual salary
as established by ordinance from time to time.
   (C)   (1)   Each officer employed on or after July 1, 1973, shall have as a
minimum educational attainment of a high school degree, or its equivalent as
determined by the Kentucky Law Enforcement Council.
      (2)   Each officer employed on or after July 1, 1972, shall within one
year of the date of employment complete a basic training course of at least 400
hours duration at a school certified or recognized by the Kentucky Law
Enforcement Council.
   (D)   (1)   Each officer, whether originally employed before or after July
1, 1972, shall successfully complete each year an in-service training course of
40 hours duration appropriate to his rank and responsibility at a school
certified or recognized by the Kentucky Law Enforcement Council.
      (2)   Each officer shall receive in each calendar year five days time off
with pay for the purpose of taking the required in-service training.
   (E)   No officer shall have his base salary reduced or be denied a normal
increase to which he is otherwise entitled because of the salary incentive
payments provided by the Kentucky Crime Commission under KRS 15.410 to 15.510.
   (F)   The Police Department and each officer thereof shall comply with all
provisions of law applicable to local police, including the transmission of
data to the Bureau of Criminal Information and Statistics as required by KRS
17.150.
   (G)   The Chief of Police shall prepare or cause to be prepared such
quarterly and other reports as may be reasonably required by the Kentucky Crime
Commission to facilitate administration of the fund and further the purpose of
KRS 15.410 to 15.510.
   (H)   The Police Department and each officer thereof shall further comply
with all reasonable rules and regulations, appropriate to the size and location
of local Police Department, issued by the Kentucky Crime Commission to
facilitate the administration of the fund and further the purpose of KRS 15.410
to 15.510.
   (I)   (1)   The City Clerk-Treasurer shall deposit in an appropriate account
which can be identified separately from all other sources all monies received
under KRS 15.410 to 15.510.
      (2)   Upon receipt of any monies under KRS 15.410 to 15.510 the Clerk-
Treasurer shall pay to each police officer the full amount received on behalf
of that officer, give to each officer a check stub or receipt on which the
gross amount of monies paid to him under KRS 15.410 to 15.510 is included and
identified.
      (3)   All financial records relating to monies received under KRS 15.410
to 15.510 shall be retained for a period of three years and until the
completion of an audit by the Kentucky Crime Commission and the United States
Law Enforcement Assistance Administration.
(Ord. 628, passed - -73)
VOLUNTEER FIRE DEPARTMENT
§ 36.15 COMPENSATION FOR TRAINING.
   The city will pay to each member of the volunteer fire squad a sum of $20
for each meeting actually attended where instructions and/or practice are
provided, as reimbursement for the expenses of use of car and incidental
personal expenses, and $20 for each fire run that constitutes an emergency
response.
(Ord. 98-55, passed 7-7-98; Am. Ord. 02-88, passed 5-7-02)
CODE ENFORCEMENT BOARD
§ 36.25 DEFINITIONS.
   For purposes of this subchapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABATEMENT COSTS. The city's necessary and reasonable costs for and
associated with clearing, preventing unauthorized entry to, or demolishing all
or a portion of a structure or premises, or taking any other action with regard
to a structure or premises necessary to remedy a violation and to maintain and
preserve the public health, safety, and welfare in accordance with any city
ordinance.
   CITY. The City of Cadiz, Kentucky.
   CODE ENFORCEMENT BOARD. An administrative body created and acting under the
authority of the Local Government Code Enforcement Board Act, KRS 65.8801 to
65.8839.
   CODE ENFORCEMENT OFFICER. A city police officer, safety officer, citation
officer, or other public law enforcement officer with the authority to issue a
citation.
   FINAL ORDER. Any order:
      (1)   Issued by the Code Enforcement Board following a hearing in
accordance with §
36.33;
      (2)   Created because a violator neither paid nor contested the citation
within seven days as provided in §
36.32; or
      (3)   Created because the violator failed to appear at a hearing the
violator requested to contest the citation as provided in §
36.33.
   IMMINENT DANGER. A condition which is likely to cause serious or life-
threatening injury or death at any time.
   ORDINANCE. An official action of the local government body, which is a
regulation of a general and permanent nature and enforceable as a local law and
shall include any provision of a code of ordinances adopted by the city
legislative body which embodies all or part of an ordinance.
   OWNER. A person, association, corporation, partnership, or other legal
entity having a legal or equitable title in real property.
   PREMISES. A lot, plot, or parcel of land, including any structures upon it.
(Ord. 17-11, passed 9-5-17)
§ 36.26 CREATION AND MEMBERSHIP.
   There is hereby created within the city pursuant to KRS 65.8801 to KRS
65.8839 a Code Enforcement Board which shall be composed of five members all of
whom shall be residents of the city for a period of at least one year prior to
their appointment and shall reside there throughout the term in office.
(Ord. 17-11, passed 9-5-17; Am. Ord. 22-11, passed 11-7-22)
§ 36.27 ENFORCEMENT POWERS.
   (A)   The Code Enforcement Board shall have the power to issue remedial
orders and impose civil fines as a method of enforcing city ordinances when a
violation of the ordinance has been classified as a civil offense and the
ordinance permits enforcement by the Code Enforcement Board.
   (B)   The Code Enforcement Board shall not have the authority to enforce any
ordinance regulating conduct which would also, under any provision of the
Kentucky Revised Statutes, constitute a criminal offense or a moving motor
vehicle offense.
(Ord. 17-11, passed 9-5-17)
§ 36.28 APPOINTMENT OF MEMBERS; TERM OF OFFICE; REMOVAL FROM OFFICE; OATH;
COMPENSATION.
   (A)   Members of the Code Enforcement Board shall be appointed by the Mayor,
subject to the approval of the City Council.
   (B)   The initial appointment to the Code Enforcement Board shall be as
follows:
      (1)   One member of the Board shall be appointed for a term of one year.
      (2)   One member of the Board shall be appointed for a term of two years.
      (3)   One member of the Board shall be appointed for a term of three
years.
   (C)   All subsequent appointments shall be for a term of three years. A
member may be reappointed, subject to the approval of the City Council.
   (D)   The Mayor may appoint, subject to the approval of the City Council,
two alternate members to serve on the Code Enforcement Board in the absence of
regular members. Alternate members shall meet all of the qualifications and
shall be subject to all of the requirements that apply to regular members of
the Code Enforcement Board.
   (E)   Any vacancy on the Board shall be filled by the Mayor, subject to
approval of the City Council, within 60 days of the vacancy. If the vacancy is
not filled within that time period, the remaining Code Enforcement Board
members shall fill the vacancy. A vacancy shall be filled for the remainder of
the unexpired term.
   (F)   A Board member may be removed from office by the Mayor for misconduct,
inefficiency, or willful neglect of duty. The Mayor shall submit a written
statement to the member and the City Council setting forth the reason(s) for
removal. The member so removed shall have the right of appeal to the Circuit
Court.
   (G)   All members of the Code Enforcement Board shall, before entering upon
the duties of their office, take the oath of office prescribed by Section 228
of the Kentucky Constitution.
   (H)   No member of the Code Enforcement Board shall hold any elected or
nonelected office, paid or unpaid, or any position of employment with the city.
(Ord. 17-11, passed 9-5-17)
§ 36.29 ORGANIZATION OF BOARD; MEETINGS; QUORUM.
   (A)   The Code Enforcement Board shall annually elect a Chair among its
members. The Chair shall be the presiding officer and a full voting member of
the Board. In the absence of the Chair, the remaining members of the Board
shall select a member to preside in place of and exercise the powers of the
Chair.
   (B)   Regular meetings of the Code Enforcement Board shall be held
quarterly.
   (C)   All meetings and hearings of the Code Enforcement Board shall be
public meetings held in accordance with the requirements of KRS 65.8815(5) and
the Kentucky Open Meetings Act.
   (D)   The presence of at least a majority of the Board's entire membership
shall constitute a quorum. The affirmative vote of a majority of a quorum of
the Board shall be necessary for any official action to be taken.
   (E)   Minutes shall be kept for all proceedings of the Code Enforcement
Board, and the vote of any member on any issue decided by the Board shall be
recorded in the minutes.
(Ord. 17-11, passed 9-5-17)
§ 36.30 CONFLICT OF INTEREST.
   Any member of the Code Enforcement Board who has any direct or indirect
financial or personal interest in any matter to be decided shall disclose the
nature of the interest, shall disqualify himself from voting on the matter in
which he has an interest, and shall not be counted for purposes of establishing
a quorum.
(Ord. 17-11, passed 9-5-17)
§ 36.31 POWERS OF THE CODE ENFORCEMENT BOARD.
   The Code Enforcement Board shall have the following powers and duties:
   (A)   To adopt rules and regulation to govern its operations and the conduct
of its hearings consistent with this subchapter;
   (B)   To conduct hearings to determine if there has been a violation of an
ordinance over which it has jurisdiction;
   (C)   To subpoena alleged violators, witnesses, and evidence to its
hearings;
   (D)   To take testimony under oath;
   (E)   To make finding of fact and issue orders necessary to remedy any
violation of a city ordinance or code provision which the board is authorized
to enforce; and
   (F)   To impose civil fines, as authorized, on any person found to have
violated an ordinance over which the Board has jurisdiction.
(Ord. 17-11, passed 9-5-17)
§ 36.32 ENFORCEMENT PROCEEDINGS.
   The following requirements shall govern all enforcement proceedings before
the Code Enforcement Board.
   (A)   Enforcement proceedings shall only be initiated by the issuance of a
citation by a Code Enforcement Officer.
   (B)   The Code Enforcement Officer shall issue a citation by one of the
following methods:
      (1)   Personal service to the alleged violator;
      (2)   Leaving a copy of the citation with any person 18 years of age or
older who is on the premises, if the alleged violator is not on the premises at
the time the citation is issued;
      (3)   Mailing a copy of the citation by regular first-class mail to the
last known recorded mailing address of the alleged violator; or
      (4)   If, in the exercise of reasonable diligence, the issuance of a
citation using the methods set out in divisions (B)(1) to (3) above is not
possible, then the citation is properly served by posting a copy of the
citation in a conspicuous place on the premises.
   (C)   The citation issued by the Code Enforcement Officer shall contain the
following information:
      (1)   The date and time of issuance;
      (2)   The name and address of the person to whom the citation is issued;
      (3)   The physical address of the premises where the violation occurred;
      (4)   The date and time the offense was committed;
      (5)   The facts constituting the offense;
      (6)   The section of the Code or the number of the ordinance violated;
      (7)   The name of the Code Enforcement Officer;
      (8)   The civil fine that may be imposed for the violation;
      (9)   The procedure for the person to follow in order to pay the civil
fine or to contest the citation; and
      (10)   A statement that if the person fails to pay the civil fine set
forth in the citation or contest the citation within the time allowed the
person shall be deemed to have waived the right to a hearing before the Code
Enforcement Board to contest the citation, the determination that the violation
was committed shall be final, the citation as issued shall be deemed a final
order determining that the violation was committed and imposing as civil fine
as set forth in the citation, and the person shall be deemed to have waived the
right to appeal the final order to District Court.
   (D)   After issuing a citation to an alleged violator, the Code Enforcement
Officer shall notify the Code Enforcement Board by delivering the citation to
the City Clerk-Treasurer.
   (E)   The person to whom the citation is issued shall respond to the
citation within seven days of the date of issuance by either paying the civil
fine or requesting in writing a hearing to contest the citation. If the person
fails to respond to the citation within seven days, the person shall be deemed
to have waived the right to a hearing, and the determination that a violation
was committed shall be considered final. In this event, the citation as issued
shall be deemed a final order determining that the violation was committed and
imposing a civil fine as set forth in the citation, and the person shall be
deemed to have waived the right to appeal the final order to District Court.
   (F)   Notice of a final order shall be provided to the cited violator by
regular first-class mail, certified mail (return receipt requested), personal
delivery, or by leaving a copy of the order at that person's usual place of
residence with any individual residing therein who is 18 years of age or older
and who is informed of the contents of the order.
(Ord. 17-11, passed 9-5-17)
§ 36.33 HEARING; NOTICE; FINAL ORDER.
   (A)   When a hearing has been requested, the Code Enforcement Board or its
administrative staff shall schedule a hearing.
   (B)   Not less than seven days before the date of the hearing, the Code
Enforcement Board shall notify the requester of the date, time, and place of
the hearing. The notice may be given by regular first-class mail, certified
mail (return receipt requested), personal delivery, or by leaving the notice at
the person's usual place of residence with any individual residing therein who
is 18 years of age or older and who is informed of the contents of the notice.
   (C)   Any person requesting a hearing who fails to appear at the time and
place set for the hearing shall be deemed to have waived the right to a hearing
to contest the citation, and the determination that a violation was committed
shall be final. In this event, the citation as issued shall be deemed a final
order determining the violation was committed and imposing the civil fine set
forth in the citation, and the alleged violator shall be deemed to have waived
the right to appeal the final order to District Court.
   (D)   Notice of a final order shall be provided to the cited violator by
regular first-class mail, certified mail (return receipt requested), personal
delivery, or by leaving the notice at the person's usual place of residence
with any individual residing therein who is 18 years of age or older and who is
informed of the contents of the order.
   (E)   All testimony at the hearing shall be taken under oath and recorded.
Testimony shall be taken from the Code Enforcement Officer, the alleged
violator, and any witnesses to the violation offered by the Code Enforcement
Officer or alleged violator. Formal rules of evidence shall not apply, but
fundamental due process shall be observed and shall govern the proceedings.
   (F)   The Code Enforcement Board shall, based on the evidence, determine
whether a violation was committed. If it is determined that no violation was
committed, an order dismissing the citation shall be entered. If it is
determined that a violation was committed, an order may be issued upholding the
citation. The Board may impose a fine up to the maximum authorized by
ordinance.
   (G)   Every final order following a hearing shall be reduced to writing,
which shall include the findings and conclusions reached and the date the order
was issued. A copy shall be furnished to the person named in the citation.
   (H)   If the person named in the citation is not present when the final
order is issued, the order shall be delivered to the person by regular first-
class mail, certified mail (return receipt requested), personal delivery, or by
leaving the notice at the person's usual place of residence with any individual
residing therein who is 18 years of age or older and who is informed of the
contents of the notice.
(Ord. 17-11, passed 9-5-17)
§ 36.34 PRESENTATION OF CASES.
   Each case before the Code Enforcement Board shall be presented by an
attorney selected by the city, a Code Enforcement Officer for the city, or by a
member of the city's administrative staff. The City Attorney may either be
counsel to the Code Enforcement Board or may present cases before the Code
Enforcement Board but shall in no case serve in both capacities.
(Ord. 17-11, passed 9-5-17)
§ 36.35 APPEALS; FINAL JUDGMENT.
   (A)   An appeal from a final order of a Code Enforcement Board following a
hearing conducted pursuant to §
36.33 may be made to the Trigg District Court within 30 days of the date the
order is issued. The appeal shall be initiated by the filing of a complaint and
a copy of the final order in the same manner as any civil action under the
Kentucky Rules of Civil Procedure.
   (B)   If no appeal from a final order of the Code Enforcement Board is filed
within the time period established in division (A) above, the Code Enforcement
Board's order shall be deemed final for all purposes.
(Ord. 17-11, passed 9-5-17)
§ 36.36 LIEN; FINES; CHARGES; FEES.
   (A)   The city shall possess a lien on property owned by the person found by
a non appealable final order as defined by §
36.25 or by a final judgment of the court to have committed a violation of a
city ordinance. The lien shall be for all civil fines assessed for the
violation and for all charges and fees incurred by the city in connection with
the enforcement of the ordinance, including abatement costs. An affidavit of
the Code Enforcement Officer shall constitute prima facie evidence of the
amount of the lien and regularity of the proceedings pursuant to KRS 65.8801 to
65.8839.
   (B)   The lien shall be recorded in the office of the County Clerk. The lien
shall be notice to all persons from the time of its recording and shall bear
interest until paid. The lien shall continue for ten years following the date
of the non appealable final order or final court judgment.
   (C)   Subject to §
36.33, the lien shall take precedence over all other liens, except state,
county, school board, and city taxes, and may be enforced by judicial
proceedings, including a foreclosure action.
   (D)   In addition to the remedy prescribed in division (A) above, the person
found to have committed the violation shall be personally responsible for the
amount of all civil fines assessed for the violation and for all charges, fees,
and abatement costs incurred by the city in connection with the enforcement of
the ordinance. The city may bring a civil action against the person and shall
have the same remedies as provided for the recovery of a debt.
(Ord. 17-11, passed 9-5-17)
§ 36. 37 LIENHOLDER NOTIFICATION SYSTEM.
   The city shall obtain and maintain priority over previously filed liens, as
provided in §
36.36, in accordance with the following provisions:
   (A)   Individuals and entities, including but not limited to lienholders,
may register with the city to receive electronic notification of final orders
entered pursuant to this subchapter.
   (B)   In order to receive the notification, the registrant shall submit the
following information to the City Clerk:
      (1)   Name;
      (2)   Mailing address;
      (3)   Phone number; and
      (4)   Electronic mailing address.
   (C)   It shall be the responsibility of the registrant to maintain and
update the required contact information with the city. The city shall inform a
registrant of any evidence received that the electronic mailing address is
invalid or not functional so that the registrant may provide an updated
electronic mailing address.
   (D)   Once per month, the city shall send electronic mail notification of
all final orders entered pursuant to this subchapter since the last date of
notification to each party registered pursuant to this section. The
notification shall provide an electronic link to a document or database that
includes:
      (1)   The name of the person charged with a violation;
      (2)   The physical address of the premises where the violation occurred;
      (3)   The last known mailing address for the owner of the premises where
the violation occurred if, in the exercise of reasonable diligence, it is
ascertainable;
      (4)   A copy of the full citation;
      (5)   A copy of the full final order; and
      (6)   The status of the final order regarding its ability to be appealed
pursuant to this subchapter.
   (E)   If an appeal is filed on a final order pursuant to this subchapter,
the city shall send electronic mail notification to all registrants.
   (F)   The city shall update its code enforcement database to reflect the
issued final order and shall post this notification required by division (D)
above containing an updated link to the code enforcement database in a
conspicuous space on the city's web site at the same time it provides the
electronic notification.
   (G)   The city shall maintain the records created under this section for ten
years following their issuance.
(Ord. 17-11, passed 9-5-17)
§ 36.38 LIENS.
   (A)   A lienholder of record who has registered pursuant to §
36.37 may, within 45 days from the date of issuance of notification under §
36.37:
      (1)   Correct the violation, if it has not already been abated; or
      (2)   Pay all civil fines assessed for the violation and all charges and
fees incurred by the city in connection with enforcement of the ordinance,
including abatement costs.
   (B)   Nothing in this section shall prohibit the city from taking immediate
action if necessary under §
36.39.
   (C)   The lien provide by §
36.36 shall not take precedence over previously recorded liens if:
      (1)   The city failed to comply with the requirements of §
36.37 for notification of the final order; or
      (2)   A prior lienholder complied with division (A) above.
   (D)   A lien that does not take precedence over previously recorded liens
under division (C) above shall, if the final order remains partially
unsatisfied, continue to take precedence over all other subsequent liens except
liens for state, county, school board, and city taxes.
   (E)   The city may record a lien before the 45-day period established in
division (A) above expires. If the lien is fully satisfied prior to the
expiration of the 45-day period, the city shall release the lien in the County
Clerk's office where the lien is recorded within 15 days of satisfaction.
   (F)   Failure of the city to comply with §
36.37 or this section or failure of a lien to take precedence over previously
filed liens as provided in division (C) above shall not limit or restrict any
other remedies the city has against the property or the violator.
(Ord. 17-11, passed 9-5-17)
§ 36.39 IMMEDIATE ACTION.
   Nothing in this subchapter shall prohibit the city from taking immediate
action to remedy a violation of its ordinances when there is reason to believe
that the violation presents a serious threat to the public health, safety, and
welfare, or if in the absence of immediate action, the effects of the violation
will be irreparable or irreversible.
(Ord. 17-11, passed 9-5-17)
CHAPTER 37: PERSONNEL
Section
Affirmative Action Plan
   
37.01   Statement of policy
   
37.02   Dissemination of policy
   
37.03   Personnel actions
   
37.04   Workforce analysis
   
37.05   Implementation of plan
   
37.06   Grievance procedure
Policy for Exempt Employees During Periods of Emergency or Disaster
   
37.10   Definitions
   
37.11   Policy for exempt employees during periods of emergency or disaster
   
37.12   Severability
AFFIRMATIVE ACTION PLAN
§ 37.01 STATEMENT OF POLICY.
   The affirmative action policy of the city is to promote equal employment
opportunity; to prohibit discrimination in employment on account of race,
color, religion, national origin, sex, age or handicapped status not related to
performance of the job; and to bring about a fair representation and
utilization of females and minorities on all levels of city employment.
(Res. passed 6-2-98)
§ 37.02 DISSEMINATION OF POLICY.
   The city will advise all employees and applicants for employment of this
policy and will make known to the public that employment opportunities are
available on the basis of individual ability and will encourage all persons who
are employed by the city to strive for advancement on that basis.
(Res. passed 6-2-98)
§ 37.03 PERSONNEL ACTIONS.
   The city will take affirmative action to ensure that applicants are
recruited and employed and that employees are treated during their employment,
without regard to race, color, religion, sex, national origin, age or
handicapped status not related to ability to perform the job; and such
affirmative action shall include all terms and conditions of employment such
as: hiring, placement, upgrading, demotion, transfer, layoff and termination.
(Res. passed 6-2-98)
§ 37.04 WORKFORCE ANALYSIS.
   (A)   Survey of labor market. The city has determined that the labor market
in which it operates is Trigg County, Kentucky. The latest reliable data that
show the utilization of females and minorities by job category is the most
recent federal general census.
   (B)   City workforce. The number of women and minorities employed by the
city in each job category was compared with those available in the workforce of
the community. The percentage of such employees in the community was multiplied
by the total city employees in each job category to determine the number
required for fair selection.
   (C)   Goals and timetables. The city examined each category in which the
number of females and minorities were fewer than the number required for fair
selection. Appropriate goals for women and for minorities were established to
bring the city's utilization to a level comparable to the community workforce.
Timetables were based on the anticipated annual job openings in each category.
Where a disparity exists between the percentage of a protected group in the
community population and the percentage in the community workforce, the goals
are adjusted to overcome this disparity. The goal of fair utilization of
minorities and females in each category is to be met within the next five years
through the personnel procedures established by this plan without
discrimination of any kind. The maintenance of this policy will be a continuing
effort.
(Res. passed 6-2-98)
§ 37.05 IMPLEMENTATION OF PLAN.
   It is understood that implementation of the affirmative action plan is an
on-going process which will make the plan a viable, effective document.
   (A)   Responsibility. The Affirmative Action Coordinator shall be
responsible for implementation of the affirmative action plan and shall have
authority to require department heads to furnish such information as is
necessary to keep current forms and reports.
   (B)   Duties. The Affirmative Action Coordinator shall disseminate the
City's Equal Employment Opportunity policy as set forth in the affirmative
action plan; maintain current job classifications and minimum requirements
based on the tasks to be performed by each position, an updated workforce
analysis, an applicant flow chart and job roster; and prepare a consolidated
report for the entire city government.
   (C)   Reports. The Affirmative Action Coordinator shall monitor the
operation of this affirmative action plan and shall prepare a consolidated
annual progress report together with indications of problem areas and
recommendations for solutions for the City Council.
(Res. passed 6-2-98)
§ 37.06 GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Any employee who believes he/she has been adversely effected by an act
or decision of the supervisory or managerial personnel of the city and that
such act or decision was based on race, color, sex, religion, national origin
or handicapped condition shall have the right to process a complaint or
grievance in accordance with the following procedure:
      (1)   An employee who has a grievance regarding his employment by the
city may discuss the grievance with his supervisor.
      (2)   If, following the discussion, the decision of the supervisor
regarding the grievance does not satisfy the employee, he may discuss it with
the Affirmative Action Coordinator.
      (3)   If the decision of the Affirmative Action Coordinator does not
satisfy the employee, he may request a hearing with the Council by submitting a
written request for the hearing. The decision of the Council regarding the
grievance shall be final.
      (4)   In thus discussing the grievance, the employee may designate any
person of his choice to appear with him and participate in the discussion. The
Council may require the supervisor to participate in the discussion of the
grievance when it is brought before the Council.
   (B)   Any prospective employee or applicant for employment who is denied
employment with the city and believes that denial was based in whole or in part
on the race, religion, sex, age or physical condition of the applicant may file
a written complaint with the Affirmative Action Coordinator who shall make
every effort to resolve the matter impartially and expeditiously. The appeal
procedure above is also available to such grievant.
(Res. passed 6-2-98)
POLICY FOR EXEMPT EMPLOYEES DURING PERIODS OF EMERGENCY OR DISASTER
§ 37.10 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CITY. The City of Cadiz, Kentucky.
   EXEMPT EMPLOYEE. Each person identified in KRS 337.285(2)(a) through KRS
337.285(2)(e) who is employed by the city.
(Ord. 11-03, passed 8-2-11)
§ 37.11 POLICY.
   During any period of emergency or disaster in the city as declared by
federal, state, or local authorities, each exempt employee shall be allowed, in
addition to such employee’s regular compensation, to be paid for up to 160
hours worked on an hour-for-hour basis in connection with responding to such
emergency or disaster if the city receives reimbursement from the Federal
Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) or any other governmental agency for such
time worked.
(Ord. 11-03, passed 8-2-11)
§ 37.12 SEVERABILITY.
   Each section and each provision of each section of this subchapter are
severable, and if any provision, section, paragraph, sentence, or part thereof,
or the application thereof to any person, licensee, class, or group is held by
a court of law to be unconstitutional or invalid for any reason, such holding
shall not affect or impair the remainder of this subchapter, it being the
legislative intent to ordain and enact each provision, section, paragraph,
sentence, and part thereof separately and independently of the rest.
(Ord. 11-03, passed 8-2-11)
CHAPTER 38: CODE OF ETHICS
Section
General Provisions
   
38.01   Title; findings
   
38.02   Purpose and authority
   
38.03   Definitions
Standards of Conduct
   
38.10   Conflicts of interest in general
   
38.11   Conflicts of interest in contracts
   
38.12   Receipt of gifts
   
38.13   Use of city property, equipment, or personnel
   
38.14   Representation of interests before city government
   
38.15   Misuse of confidential information
   
38.16   Post-employment restriction
   
38.17   Honoraria
Financial Disclosure
   
38.25   Officers and employees required to file
   
38.26   Due date; amended statements
   
38.27   Statement of financial interests form
   
38.28   Control and maintenance of the statements of financial interests
   
38.29   Contents of the financial interests statement
   
38.30   Noncompliance with filing requirement; notice and fine
Nepotism
   
38.40   Nepotism prohibited
Enforcement
   
38.50   Board of ethics created
   
38.51   Membership
   
38.52   Removal from office
   
38.53   Vacancies
   
38.54   Compensation
   
38.55   Chairperson; meetings
   
38.56   Alternate members
   
38.57   Facilities and staff
   
38.58   Power and duties
   
38.59   Filing and investigation of complaints
   
38.60   Notice of hearings
   
38.61   Hearing procedure
   
38.62   Appeals
   
38.63   Limitation of actions
   
38.64   Advisory opinions
   
38.65   Reprisals against persons disclosing violations prohibited
 
   
38.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 38.01 TITLE; FINDINGS.
   (A)   This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the “City of Cadiz
Code of Ethics.”
   (B)   The legislative body of the city finds and declares that:
      (1)   Public office and employment with the city are public trusts.
      (2)   The vitality and stability of the government of this city depends
upon the public's confidence in the integrity of its elected and appointed
officers and employees. Whenever the public perceives a conflict between the
private interests and public duties of a city officer or employee, that
confidence is imperiled.
      (3) The government of this city has a duty to provide its citizens with
standards by which they may determine whether public duties are being
faithfully performed and to make its officers and employees aware of the
standards which the citizenry rightfully expects them to comply with while
conducting their public duties.
(Ord. 94-14, passed 11-1-94)
§ 38.02 PURPOSE AND AUTHORITY.
   (A)   It is the purpose of this chapter to provide a method of assuring that
standards of ethical conduct and financial disclosure requirements for officers
and employees of the city shall be clearly established, uniform in their
application, and enforceable, and to provide the officers and employees of the
city with advice and information concerning potential conflicts of interest
which might arise in the conduct of their public duties.
   (B)   It is the further purpose of this chapter to meet the requirements of
KRS 65.003 as enacted by the 1994 Kentucky General Assembly.
   (C)   This chapter is enacted under the power vested in the city by KRS
82.082 and pursuant to requirements of KRS 65.003.
(Ord. 94-14, passed 11-1-94)
§ 38.03 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUSINESS. Any corporation, partnership, sole-proprietorship, firm,
enterprise, franchise, association, organization, self-employed individual,
holding company, joint stock company, receivership, trust, professional service
corporation, or any legal entity through which business is conducted for
profit.
   BOARD OF ETHICS. The city Board of Ethics which is created and vested by §
38.50 with the responsibility of enforcing the requirements of the city's code
of ethics.
   CANDIDATE. Any individual who seeks nomination or election to a city office.
An individual is a candidate when the individual files a notification and
declaration for nomination for office with the county clerk or secretary of
state, or is nominated for office by a political party, or files a declaration
of intent to be a write-in candidate with the county clerk or secretary of
state.
   CITY AGENCY. Any board, commission, authority, nonstock corporation, or
other entity created, either individually or jointly, by this city.
   EMPLOYEE. Any person, whether full-time or part-time, and whether paid or
unpaid, who is employed by or provides service to the city. The term EMPLOYEE
shall not include any contractor or subcontractor or any of their employees.
   FAMILY MEMBER. A spouse, parent, child, brother, sister, mother-in-law,
father-in-law, son-in- law, daughter-in-law, grandparent, or grandchild.
   IMMEDIATE FAMILY MEMBER. A spouse, an unemancipated child residing in the
officer's or employee's household, or a person claimed by the officer or
employee or the officer's or employee's spouse as a dependent for tax purposes.
   OFFICER. Any person, whether full-time or part-time, and whether paid or
unpaid, who is one of the following:
      (1)   The mayor;
      (2)   City Council member;
      (3)   City Clerk;
      (4)   City Administrator;
      (5)   Any person who occupies a nonelected office under KRS 83A.080;
      (6)   A member of the governing body of any city agency who has been
appointed to the governing body of the agency by the city.
(Ord. 94-14, passed 11-1-94)
STANDARDS OF CONDUCT
§ 38.10 CONFLICTS OF INTEREST IN GENERAL.
   (A)   Every officer and employee of the city and every city agency shall
comply with the standards of conduct set forth in this section.
   (B)   No officer or employee, or any immediate family member of any officer
or employee, shall have an interest in a business or engage in any business,
transaction, or activity, which is in substantial conflict with the proper
discharge of the officer's or employee's public duties.
   (C)   No officer or employee shall intentionally use or attempt to use his
or her official position with the city to secure unwarranted privileges or
advantages for himself or herself or others.
   (D)   No officer or employee shall intentionally take or refrain from taking
any discretionary action, or agree to take or refrain from taking any
discretionary action, or induce or attempt to induce any other officer or
employee to take or refrain from taking any discretionary action, on any matter
before the city in order to obtain a financial benefit for any of the
following:
      (1)   The officer or employee.
      (2)   A family member.
      (3)   An outside employer.
      (4)   Any business in which the officer or employee or any family member
has a financial interest.
      (5)   Any business with which the officer or employee or any family
member is negotiating or seeking prospective employment or other business or
professional relationship.
   (E)   No officer or employee shall be deemed in violation of any provision
in this section if, by reason of the officer's or employee's participation,
vote, decision, action, or inaction, no financial benefit accrues to the
officer or employee, a family member, an outside employer, or a business as
defined in division (D)(4) and (D)(5) of this section, as a member of any
business, occupation, profession, or other group, to any greater extent than
any gain could reasonably be expected to accrue to any other member of the
business, occupation, profession, or other group.
   (F)   Every officer or employee who has a prohibited financial interest
which the officer or employee believes or has reason to believe may be affected
by his or her participation, vote, decision or other action taken within the
scope of his or her public duties shall disclose the precise nature and value
of the interest, in writing, to the governing body of the city or city agency
served by the officer or employee, and the disclosure shall be entered on the
official record of the proceedings of the governing body. The officer or
employee shall refrain from taking any action with respect to the matter that
is the subject of the disclosure.
(Ord. 94-14, passed 11-1-94)
§ 38.11 CONFLICTS OF INTEREST IN CONTRACTS.
   (A)   No officer or employee of the city or any city agency shall directly
or through others undertake, execute, hold, or enjoy in whole or in part any
contract made, entered into, awarded, or granted by the city or a city agency,
except as follows:
      (1)   The prohibition in division (A) of this section shall not apply to
contracts entered into before an elected officer filed as a candidate for city
office, before an appointed officer was appointed to a city or city agency
office, or before an employee was hired by the city or a city agency. However,
if any contract entered into by a city or city agency officer or employee
before he or she became a candidate, was appointed to office or was hired as an
employee is renewable after he or she becomes a candidate, assumes the
appointed office, or is hired as an employee, then the prohibition in division
(A) of this section shall apply to the renewal of the contract.
      (2)   The prohibition in division (A) of this section shall not apply if
the contract is awarded after public notice and competitive bidding, unless the
officer or employee is authorized to participate in establishing the contract
specifications, awarding the contract, or managing contract performance after
the contract is awarded. If the officer or employee has any of the authorities
set forth in the preceding sentence, then the officer or employee shall have no
interest in the contract, unless the requirements set forth in division (3)
below are satisfied.
      (3)   The prohibition in division (A) of this section shall not apply in
any case where the following requirements are satisfied:
         (a)   The specific nature of the contract transaction and the nature
of the officer's or employee's interest in the contract are publicly disclosed
at a meeting of the governing body of the city or city agency;
         (b)   The disclosure is made a part of the official record of the
governing body of the city or city agency before the contract is executed;
         (c)   A finding is made by the governing body of the city or city
agency that the contract with the officer or employee is in the best interests
of the public and the city or city agency because of price, limited supply, or
other specific reasons; and
         (d)   The finding is made a part of the official record of the
governing body of the city or city agency before the contract is executed.
   (B)   Any violation of this section shall constitute a Class A misdemeanor,
and upon conviction, the court may void any contract entered into in violation
of this section. Additionally, a violation of this section shall be grounds for
removal from office or employment with the city in accordance with any
applicable provisions of state law and ordinances, rules, or regulations of the
city.
(KRS 61.252) (Ord. 94-14, passed 11-1-94)
Penalty, see § 38.99
§ 38.12 RECEIPT OF GIFTS.
   No officer or employee of the city or any city agency shall directly, or
indirectly through any other person or business, solicit or accept any gift
having a fair market value of more than $100, whether in the form of money,
service, loan, travel, entertainment, hospitality, thing, or promise or any
other form under circumstances in which it could reasonably be inferred that
the gift was intended to influence, or could reasonably be expected to
influence the officer or employee in the performance of his or her public
duties.
(Ord. 94-14, passed 11-1-94)
§ 38.13 USE OF CITY PROPERTY, EQUIPMENT, OR PERSONNEL.
   No officer or employee of the city shall use or permit the use of any city
time, funds, personnel, equipment, or other personal or real property for the
private use of any person, unless:
   (A)   The use is specifically authorized by a stated city policy; or
   (B)   The use is available to the general public, and then only to the
extent and upon the terms that such use is available to the general public.
(Ord. 94-14, passed 11-1-94)
§ 38.14 REPRESENTATION OF INTERESTS BEFORE CITY GOVERNMENT.
   (A)   No officer or employee of the city or any city agency shall represent
any person or business, other than the city, in connection with any cause,
proceeding, application, or other matter pending before the city or any city
agency.
   (B)   Nothing in this section shall prohibit an employee from representing
another employee or employees where the representation is within the context of
official labor union or similar representational responsibilities.
   (C)   Nothing in this section shall prohibit any officer or employee from
representing himself or herself in matters concerning his or her own interests.
   (D)   No elected officer shall be prohibited by this section from making any
inquiry for information on behalf of a constituent, if no compensation, reward,
or other thing of value is promised to, given to, or accepted by the officer,
whether directly or indirectly, in return for the inquiry.
(Ord. 94-14, passed 11-1-94)
§ 38.15 MISUSE OF CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION.
   No officer or employee of the city or any city agency shall intentionally
use or disclose information acquired in the course or his or her official
duties, if the primary purpose of the use or disclosure is to further his or
her personal financial interest or that of another person or business.
Information shall be deemed confidential, if it is not subject to disclosure
pursuant to the Kentucky Open Records Act, KRS 61.872 to 61.884, at the time of
its use or disclosure.
(Ord. 94-14, passed 11-1-94)
§ 38.16 POST-EMPLOYMENT RESTRICTION.
   No officer or employee of the city or any city agency shall appear or
practice before the city or any city agency with respect to any matter on which
the officer or employee personally worked while in the service of the city or
city agency for a period of one year after the termination of the officer's or
employee's service with the city or city agency.
(Ord. 94-14, passed 11-1-94)
§ 38.17 HONORARIA.
   (A)   No officer or employee of the city or a city agency shall accept any
compensation, honorarium, or gift with a fair market value greater than $100 in
consideration of an appearance, speech, or article unless the appearance,
speech, or article is both related to the officer's or employee's activities
outside of municipal service and is unrelated to the officer's or employee's
service with the city.
   (B)   Nothing in this section shall prohibit an officer or employee of the
city or any city agency from receiving and retaining from the city or on behalf
of the city actual and reasonable out-of-pocket expenses incurred by the
officer or employee in connection with an appearance, speech, or article,
provided that the officer or employee can show by clear and convincing evidence
that the expenses were incurred or received on behalf of the city or city
agency and primarily for the benefit of the city or city agency and not
primarily for the benefit of the officer or employee or any other person.
(Ord. 94-14, passed 11-1-94)
FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE
§ 38.25 OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES REQUIRED TO FILE.
   The following classes of officers and employees of the city and city
agencies shall file an annual statement of financial interests with the Board
of Ethics:
   (A)   Elected city officials.
   (B)   Candidates for elected city office.
   (C)   City Clerk.
   (D)   City Administrator.
   (E)   Nonelected officers and employees of the city or any city agency who
are authorized to make purchases of materials or services, or award contracts,
leases, or agreements involving the expenditure of more than $10,000.
(Ord. 94-14, passed 11-1-94)
Penalty, see § 38.99
Statutory reference:
   Small purchase procedures authorized for purchases under $20,000, see KRS
45A.385
§ 38.26 DUE DATE; AMENDED STATEMENTS.
   (A)   The initial statement of financial interests required by this chapter
shall be filed with the City Clerk no later than 5:00 p.m., January 31, 1995.
All subsequent statements of financial interest shall be filed no later than 5:
00 p.m. on January 31 of each year, provided that:
      (1)   An officer or employee newly-appointed to fill an office or
position of employment with the city or a city agency shall file his or her
initial statement no later than 30 days after the date of the appointment.
      (2)   A candidate for city office shall file his or her initial statement
no later than 30 days after the date on which the person becomes a candidate
for elected city office.
   (B)   The Board of Ethics may grant a reasonable extension of time for
filing a statement of financial interests for good cause shown.
   (C)   In the event there is a material change in any information contained
in a financial statement that has been filed with the Board, the officer or
employee shall, no later than 30 days after becoming aware of the material
change, file an amended statement with the Board.
(Ord. 94-14, passed 11-1-94)
§ 38.27 STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL INTERESTS FORM.
   The statement of financial interests shall be filed on a form prescribed by
the Board of Ethics. The City Clerk shall deliver a copy of the form to each
officer and employee required to file the statement, by first class mail or
hand delivery, no later than November 30 of each year. The failure of the City
Clerk to deliver a copy of the form to any officer or employee shall not
relieve the officer or employee of the obligation to file the statement.
(Ord. 94-14, passed 11-1-94)
§ 38.28 CONTROL AND MAINTENANCE OF THE STATEMENTS OF FINANCIAL INTERESTS.
   (A)   The City Clerk shall be the official custodian of the statements of
financial interests and shall have control over the maintenance of the
statements of financial interests. The statements of financial interests shall
be maintained by the City Clerk as the custodian, as public documents,
available for public inspection immediately upon filing.
   (B)   (1)   Unless conflicting standards are established by the Kentucky
Archives and Records Commission, a statement of financial interests shall be
retained by the City Clerk for a period of five years after filing, provided
that:
         (a)   Upon the expiration of three years after a person ceases to be
an officer or employee of the city or a city agency, the Board shall cause to
be destroyed any statements of financial interests or copies of those
statements filed by the person.
         (b)   Upon the expiration of three years after any election at which a
candidate for elected city office was not elected or nominated, the Board shall
cause to be destroyed any statements of financial interests or copies of those
statements filed by the person.
      (2)   Should the Archives and Records Commission establish standards for
the retention and distribution of the applicable records, such standards shall
supersede this section.
(Ord. 94-14, passed 11-1-94)
§ 38.29 CONTENTS OF THE FINANCIAL INTERESTS STATEMENT.
   (A)   The statement of financial interests shall include the following
information for the preceding calendar year:
      (1)   The name, current business address, business telephone number, and
home address of the filer;
      (2)   The title of the filer's office, office sought, or position of
employment;
      (3)   The occupation of the filer and the filer's spouse;
      (4)   Information that identifies each source of income of the filer and
the filer's immediate family members exceeding $5,000 during the preceding
calendar year and the nature of the income (for example, salary, commission,
dividends, retirement fund distribution, and the like);
      (5)   The name and address of any business located within the state in
which the filer or any member of the filer's immediate family had at any time
during the preceding calendar year an interest of $10,000 at fair market value
or 5% ownership interest or more;
      (6)   The name and address of any business located outside of the state,
if the business has engaged in any business transactions with the city during
the past three years, or which is anticipated to engage in any business
transactions with the city, in which the filer or any member of the filer's
immediate family had at any time during the preceding calendar year an interest
of $10,000 at fair market value or 5% ownership interest or more;
      (7)   A designation as commercial, residential, or rural, and the
location of all real property within the county, other than the filer's primary
residence, in which the filer or any member of the filer's immediate family had
during the preceding calendar year an interest of $10,000 or more;
      (8)   Each source by name and address of gifts or honoraria having an
aggregate fair market value of $100 or more from any single source, excluding
gifts received from family members, received by the filer or any member of the
filer's immediate family during the preceding calendar year;
      (9)   The name and address of any creditor owed more than $10,000, except
debts arising from educational loans, the purchase of a primary residence, or
the purchase of consumer goods which are bought or used primarily for personal,
family, or household purposes;
   (B)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to require any officer or
employee to disclose any specific dollar amounts nor the names of individual
clients or customers of businesses listed as sources of income.
(Ord. 94-14, passed 11-1-94)
§ 38.30 NONCOMPLIANCE WITH FILING REQUIREMENT; NOTICE AND FINE.
   (A)   The Board of Ethics, or the designated administrative official, shall
notify by certified mail each person required to file a statement of financial
interests who fails to file the statement by the due date, files an incomplete
statement, or files a statement in a form other than that prescribed by the
Board. The notice shall specify the type of failure or delinquency, shall
establish a date by which the failure or delinquency shall be remedied, and
shall advise the person of the penalties for a violation.
   (B)   Any person who fails or refuses to file the statement or who fails or
refuses to remedy a deficiency in the filing identified in the notice under
division (A) within the time period established in the notice shall be guilty
of a civil offense and shall be subject to a civil fine imposed by the Board in
an amount not to exceed $25 per day, up to a maximum total civil fine of $500.
Any civil fine imposed by the Board under this section may be recovered by the
city in a civil action in the nature of debt if the offender fails or refuses
to pay the penalty within a prescribed period of time.
   (C)   Any person who intentionally files a statement of financial interests
which he or she knows to contain false information or intentionally omits
required information shall be guilty of a Class A misdemeanor.
(Ord. 94-14, passed 11-1-94)
Penalty, see § 38.99
NEPOTISM
§ 38.40 NEPOTISM PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No officer or employee of the city or a city agency shall advocate,
recommend, or cause the employment, appointment, promotion, transfer, or
advancement of a family member to an office or position of employment with the
city or a city agency.
   (B)   No officer or employee of the city or a city agency shall supervise or
manage the work of a family member.
   (C)   No officer or employee shall participate in any action relating to the
employment or discipline of a family member, except that this prohibition shall
not prevent an elected or appointed official from voting on or participating in
the development of a budget which includes compensation for a family member,
provided that the family member is included only as a member of a class of
persons or a group and that the family member benefits to no greater extent
than any other similarly situated member of the class or group.
   (D)   The prohibitions in this section shall not apply to any relationship
or situation that would violate the prohibition, but which existed prior to
December 6, 1994.
(Ord. 94-14, passed 11-1-94)
ENFORCEMENT
§ 38.50 BOARD OF ETHICS CREATED.
   There is hereby created a Board of Ethics which shall have the authorities,
duties, and responsibilities as set forth in this chapter to enforce the
provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 94-14, passed 11-1-94)
§ 38.51 MEMBERSHIP.
   The Board of Ethics shall consist of five members who shall be appointed by
the executive authority of the city, subject to the approval of the legislative
body (if different from the executive authority). The initial members of the
Board of Ethics shall be appointed within 60 days of the effective date of this
chapter. No member of the Board of Ethics shall hold any elected or appointed
office, whether paid or unpaid, or any position of employment with the city or
any city agency. The members shall serve for a term of three years, except that
with respect to the members initially appointed, one member shall be appointed
for a term of one year, two members shall be appointed for a term of two years,
and two members shall be appointed for a term of three years. Thereafter, all
appointments shall be for a term of three years. Each member of the Board of
Ethics shall have been a resident of the city for at least one year prior to
the date of the appointment and shall reside in the city throughout the term in
office. The members of the Board of Ethics shall be chosen by virtue of their
known and consistent reputation for integrity and their knowledge of local
government affairs. The members may be re-appointed for any number of
consecutive terms.
(Ord. 94-14, passed 11-1-94)
§ 38.52 REMOVAL FROM OFFICE.
   A member of the Board of Ethics may be removed by the executive authority,
subject to the approval of the legislative body (if different from the
executive authority) for misconduct, inability, or willful neglect of duties.
Before any member of the Board of Ethics is removed from office under this
section, the member shall be afforded the opportunity for a hearing before the
executive authority and the legislative body (if different from the executive
authority).
(Ord. 94-14, passed 11-1-94)
§ 38.53 VACANCIES.
   Vacancies on the Board of Ethics shall be filled within 60 days by the
executive authority, subject to the approval of the legislative body (if
different from the executive authority). If a vacancy is not filled by the
executive authority within 60 days, the remaining members of the Board of
Ethics shall fill the vacancy. All vacancies shall be filled for the remainder
of the unexpired term.
(Ord. 94-14, passed 11-1-94)
§ 38.54 COMPENSATION.
   Members of the Board of Ethics shall serve without compensation, unless
otherwise approved by the legislative body, but shall be reimbursed for all
necessary and reasonable expenses incurred in the performance of their duties.
(Ord. 94-14, passed 11-1-94)
§ 38.55 CHAIRPERSON; MEETINGS.
   (A)   The Board of Ethics shall, upon the initial appointment of its
members, and annually thereafter, elect a chairperson from among the
membership. The chairperson shall be the presiding officer and a full voting
member of the Board.
   (B)   Meetings of the Board of Ethics shall be held, as necessary, upon the
call of the chairperson or at the written request of a majority of the members.
   (C)   The presence of three or more members shall constitute a quorum and
the affirmative vote of three or more members shall be necessary for any
official action to be taken. Any member of the Board of Ethics who has a
conflict of interest with respect to any matter to be considered by the Board
shall disclose the nature of the conflict, shall disqualify himself or herself
from voting on the matter, and shall not be counted for purposes of
establishing a quorum.
   (D)   Minutes shall be kept for all proceedings of the Board of Ethics and
the vote of each member on any issue decided by the Board shall be recorded in
the minutes.
(Ord. 94-14, passed 11-1-94)
§ 38.56 ALTERNATE MEMBERS.
   The executive authority of the city, with the approval of the legislative
body (if different than the executive authority) may appoint two alternate
members of the Board of Ethics who may be called upon to serve when any regular
member of the Board is unable to discharge his or her duties. An alternate
member shall be appointed for a term of one year. Alternate members shall meet
all qualifications and be subject to all of the requirements of this chapter
that apply to regular members.
(Ord. 94-14, passed 11-1-94)
§ 38.57 FACILITIES AND STAFF.
   Within the limits of the funds appropriated by the legislative body in the
annual budget, the city shall provide the Board of Ethics, either directly or
by contract or agreement, with the facilities, materials, supplies, and staff
needed for the conduct of its business.
(Ord. 94-14, passed 11-1-94)
§ 38.58 POWER AND DUTIES.
   The Board of Ethics shall have the following powers and duties:
   (A)   To review the annual financial interest statements filed by officers
and employees of the city, on or about February 16 of each year, and determine
the fact and sufficiency of such filings. Within 15 days thereafter, the Board
of Ethics, through the City Clerk, shall forward notifications of failure or
deficiency in accordance with § 38.29(A).
   (B)   To initiate on its own motion, receive and investigate complaints,
hold hearings, and make findings of fact and determinations with regard to
alleged violations of the provisions of this chapter.
   (C)   To issue orders in connection with its investigations and hearings
requiring persons to submit in writing and under oath reports and answers to
questions that are relevant to the proceedings and to order testimony to be
taken by deposition before any individual designated by the Board who has the
power to administer oaths.
   (D)   To administer oaths and to issue orders requiring the attendance and
testimony of witnesses and the production of documentary evidence relating to
an investigation or hearing being conducted by the Board. Such orders may not
be enforced by “contempt” or injunction but shall constitute a violation for
which a fine may be imposed by the City Council, not to exceed $250 per day for
each day the violation persists.
   (E)   To refer any information concerning violations of this chapter to the
executive authority of the city, the city legislative body, the governing body
of any city agency, the county attorney, or other appropriate person or body,
as necessary.
   (F)   To render advisory opinions to city and city agency officers and
employees regarding whether a given set of facts and circumstances would
constitute a violation of any provision of this chapter.
   (G)   To enforce the provisions of this chapter with regard to all officers
and employees of the city and city agencies who are subject to its terms by
issuing appropriate orders and imposing penalties authorized by this chapter.
   (H)   To control and maintain all statements of financial interests that are
required to be filed by this chapter and to insure that the statements are
available for public inspection in accordance with the requirements of this
chapter and the Kentucky Open Records Act, KRS 61.872 to 61.884.
   (I)   To develop and submit any reports regarding the conduct of its
business that may be required by the executive authority or legislative body of
the city.
   (J)   To adopt rules and regulations and to take other actions, as
necessary, to implement the provisions of this chapter, provided that the
rules, regulations, and actions are not in conflict with the provisions of this
chapter or any state or federal law.
(Ord. 94-14, passed 11-1-94)
Statutory reference:
   Kentucky Open Records Act, see KRS 61.870 through 61.884
§ 38.59 FILING AND INVESTIGATION OF COMPLAINTS.
   (A)   All complaints alleging any violation of the provisions of this
chapter shall be submitted to the Board of Ethics, or the administrative
official designated by the Board of Ethics. All complaints shall be in writing,
signed by the complainant, and shall meet any other requirements established by
the Board of Ethics. The Board of Ethics shall acknowledge receipt of a
complaint to the complainant within ten working days from the date of receipt.
The Board shall forward within ten working days to each officer or employee of
the city or city agency who is the subject of the complaint a copy of the
complaint and a general statement of the applicable provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   Within 30 days of the receipt of a proper complaint, the Board of
Ethics shall conduct a preliminary inquiry concerning the allegations contained
in the complaint. The Board shall afford a person who is the subject of the
complaint an opportunity to respond to the allegations in the complaint. The
person shall have the right to be represented by counsel, to appear and be
heard under oath, and to offer evidence in response to the allegations.
   (C)   To the extent allowed by the Kentucky Open Meetings Act and the
Kentucky Open Records Act, all proceedings and records relating to a
preliminary inquiry being conducted by the Board of Ethics shall be
confidential until a final determination is made by the Board, except that:
      (1)   The Board may turn over to the Commonwealth's attorney or county
attorney evidence which may be used in criminal proceedings.
      (2)   If the complainant or alleged violator publicly discloses the
existence of a preliminary inquiry, the Board may publicly confirm the
existence of the inquiry and, at its discretion, make public any documents
which were issued to either party.
   (D)   The Board shall make a determination based on its preliminary inquiry
whether the complaint is within its jurisdiction and, if so, whether it alleges
a minimal factual basis to constitute a violation of this chapter. If the Board
concludes that the complaint is outside of its jurisdiction, frivolous, or
without factual basis, the Board shall immediately terminate the inquiry,
reduce the conclusion to writing, and transmit a copy of its decision to the
complainant and to all officers or employees against whom the complaint was
filed.
   (E)   If the Board of Ethics concludes, based upon its preliminary inquiry,
that the complaint is within its jurisdiction and contains allegations
sufficient to establish a minimal factual basis to constitute a violation, the
Board shall notify the officer or employee who is the subject of the complaint
and may:
      (1)   Due to mitigating circumstances (such as lack of significant
economic advantage or gain by the officer or employee, lack of economic loss to
the city and its taxpayers, or lack of significant impact on public confidence
in city government) issue an appropriate written reprimand to the officer or
employee concerning the alleged violation and provide a copy of the
confidential reprimand to the Mayor and governing body of the city or city
agency; or
      (2)   Initiate a hearing to determine whether there has been a violation.
   (F)   Any person who knowingly files with the Board a false complaint
alleging a violation of any provision of this chapter by an officer or employee
of the city or any city agency shall be guilty of a Class A misdemeanor.
(Ord. 94-14, passed 11-1-94)
Penalty, see § 38.99
§ 38.60 NOTICE OF HEARINGS.
   If the Board of Ethics determines that a hearing regarding allegations
contained in the complaint is necessary, the Board shall issue an order setting
the matter for a hearing within 30 days of the date the order is issued, unless
the alleged violator petitions for and the Board consents to a later date. The
order setting the matter for hearing, along with a copy of any pertinent
regulations of the Board relating to the hearing shall be sent to the alleged
violator within 24 hours of the time the order setting a hearing is issued.
(Ord. 94-14, passed 11-1-94)
§ 38.61 HEARING PROCEDURE.
   (A)   The Kentucky Rules of Civil Procedure and the Kentucky Rules of
Evidence shall not apply to hearings conducted by the Board of Ethics; however,
the hearings shall be conducted in accordance with this section and in
accordance with any additional rules and regulations adopted by the Board so as
to afford all parties the full range of due process rights required by the
nature of the proceedings.
   (B)   Prior to the commencement of the hearing, the alleged violator or his
or her representative shall have a reasonable opportunity to examine all
documents and records obtained or prepared by the Board in connection with the
matter to be heard. The Board shall inform the alleged violator or his or her
representative of any exculpatory evidence it its possession.
   (C)   All testimony in a Board hearing shall be taken under oath,
administered by the presiding officer. All parties shall have the right to call
and examine witnesses, to introduce exhibits, to cross- examine witnesses, to
submit evidence, and to be represented by counsel. All witnesses shall have the
right to be represented by counsel.
   (D)   Any person whose name is mentioned during the hearing and who may be
adversely affected thereby may appear personally before the Board, with or
without counsel, to give a statement regarding the adverse mention, or may file
a written statement regarding the adverse mention for incorporation into the
record of the proceeding.
   (E)   All hearings of the Board of Ethics shall be public, unless the
members vote to go into executive session in accordance with KRS 61.810.
   (F)   After the conclusion of the hearing, the Board of Ethics shall, as
soon as practicable, begin deliberations in executive session for the purpose
of reviewing the evidence before it and making a determination whether a
violation of this ordinance has been proven. Within 30 days after completion of
the hearing, the Board shall issue a written report of its findings and
conclusions.
   (G)   If the Board concludes in its report that no violation of this chapter
has occurred, it shall immediately send written notice of this determination to
the officer or employee who was the subject of the complaint and to the party
who filed the complaint.
   (H)   If the Board concludes in its report that in consideration of the
evidence produced at the hearing there is clear and convincing proof of a
violation of this chapter, the Board may:
      (1)   Issue an order requiring the violator to cease and desist the
violation;
      (2)   In writing, publicly reprimand the violator for the violations and
provide a copy of the reprimand to the executive authority and governing body
(if different than the executive authority) of the city or city agency with
which the violator serves;
      (3)   In writing, recommend to the executive authority and the governing
body (if different than the executive authority) that the violator be
sanctioned as recommended by the Board, which may include a recommendation for
discipline or dismissal or for removal from office.
      (4)   Issue an order requiring the violator to pay a civil penalty of not
more than $1,000; and
      (5)   Refer evidence of criminal violations of this chapter or state laws
to the county attorney or commonwealth's attorney of the jurisdiction for
prosecution.
(Ord. 94-14, passed 11-1-94)
§ 38.62 APPEALS.
   Any person who is found guilty of a violation of any provision of this
chapter by the Board of Ethics may appeal the finding to the circuit court of
the county within 30 days after the date of the final action by the Board of
Ethics by filing a petition with the court against the Board. The Board shall
transmit to the clerk of the court all evidence considered by the Board at the
public hearing.
(Ord. 94-14, passed 11-1-94)
§ 38.63 LIMITATION OF ACTIONS.
   Except when the period of limitation is otherwise established by state law,
an action for a violation of this chapter must be brought within one year after
the violation is discovered.
(Ord. 94-14, passed 11-1-94)
§ 38.64 ADVISORY OPINIONS.
   (A)   The Board of Ethics may render advisory opinions concerning matters
under its jurisdiction, based upon real or hypothetical facts and
circumstances, upon its own initiative or when requested by any officer or
employee of the city or a city agency who is covered by this chapter.
   (B)   An advisory opinion shall be requested in writing and shall state
relevant facts and ask specific questions. The request for an advisory opinion
shall remain confidential unless confidentiality is waived, in writing, by the
requestor.
   (C)   The Board may adopt regulations, consistent with the Kentucky Open
Records Law, to establish criteria under which it will issue confidential
advisory opinions. All other advisory opinions shall be public documents,
except that before an advisory opinion is made public, it shall be modified so
that the identity of any person associated with the opinion shall not be
revealed.
   (D)   The confidentiality of an advisory opinion may be waived either:
      (1)   In writing by the person who requested the opinion; or
      (2)   By majority vote of the members of the Board, if a person makes or
purports to make public the substance or any portion of an advisory opinion
requested by or on behalf of the person. The Board may vote to make public the
advisory opinion request and related materials.
   (E)   A written advisory opinion issued by the Board shall be binding on the
Board in any subsequent proceeding concerning the facts and circumstances of
the particular case if no intervening facts or circumstances arise which would
change the opinion of the Board if they had existed at the time the opinion was
rendered. However, if any fact determined by the Board to be material was
omitted or misstated in the request for an opinion, the Board shall not be
bound by the opinion.
   (F)   A written advisory opinion issued by the Board shall be admissible in
the defense of any criminal prosecution or civil proceeding for violations of
this chapter for actions taken in reliance on that opinion.
(Ord. 94-14, passed 11-1-94)
Statutory reference:
   Kentucky Open Records Act, see KRS 61.870 through 61.884
§ 38.65 REPRISALS AGAINST PERSONS DISCLOSING VIOLATIONS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No officer or employee of the city or any city agency shall subject to
reprisal or directly or indirectly use or threaten to use any official
authority or influence in any manner whatsoever which tends to discourage,
restrain, deter, prevent, interfere with, coerce, or discriminate against any
person who in good faith reports, discloses, divulges, or otherwise brings to
the attention of the Board of Ethics or any other agency or official of the
city or the Commonwealth any facts or information relative to an actual or
suspected violation of this chapter.
   (B)   This section shall not be construed as prohibiting disciplinary or
punitive action if an officer or employee of the city or any city agency
discloses information which he or she knows:
      (1)   To be false or which he or she discloses with reckless disregard
for its truth or falsity;
      (2)   To be exempt from required disclosure under the provisions of the
Kentucky Open Records Act, KRS 61.870 to 61.884; or
      (3)   Is confidential under any other provision of law.
(Ord. 94-14, passed 11-1-94)
Penalty, see § 38.99
§ 38.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Except when another penalty is specifically set forth in this chapter,
any officer or employee of the city or any city agency who is found by the
Board of Ethics to have violated any provision of this chapter shall be deemed
guilty of a civil offense and may be subject to a civil fine imposed by the
Board of Ethics not to exceed $1,000, which may be recovered by the city in a
civil action in the nature of debt if the offender fails to pay the penalty
within a prescribed period of time.
   (B)   In addition to all other penalties which may be imposed under this
chapter, any officer or employee of the city or any city agency who is found by
the Board of Ethics to have violated any provision of this chapter shall
forfeit to the city or the city agency an amount equal to the economic benefit
or gain which the officer or employee is determined by the Board to have
realized as a result of the violation. The amount of any forfeiture may be
recovered by the city in a civil action in the nature of debt if the offender
fails to pay the amount of the forfeiture within a prescribed period of time.
   (C)   In addition to all other penalties which may be imposed under this
chapter, a finding by the Board of Ethics that an officer or employee of the
city or any city agency is guilty of a violation of this chapter shall be
sufficient cause for removal, suspension, demotion, or other disciplinary
action by the executive authority of the city or city agency, or by any other
officer or agency having the power of removal or discipline. Any action to
remove or discipline any officer or employee for a violation of this chapter
shall be taken in accordance with all applicable ordinances and regulations of
the city and all applicable laws of the Commonwealth.
(Ord. 94-14, passed 11-1-94)
CHAPTER 39: CITY POLICY
Section
   
39.01   Grievance procedures relating to discrimination based on handicapped
status
   
39.02   Continuity of government
   
39.03   Identity Theft Prevention Program
§ 39.01 GRIEVANCE PROCEDURES RELATING TO DISCRIMINATION BASED ON HANDICAPPED
STATUS.
   (A)   Any person (employee or citizen) who believes that he or she has been
subjected to discrimination as prohibited by any federal or state law and
Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, being 29 U.S.C. 794, may
personally or by a representative, file a complaint with the office of the
Mayor. A person who has not personally been subjected to discrimination may
also file a complaint.
   (B)   When any person, (citizen, applicant or employee) who believes he or
she has been adversely effected by an act or decision by the city, and that
such act or decision was based on handicapped status shall have the right to
process a complaint or grievance in accordance with the following procedure.
      (1)   Step one: An aggrieved person must submit a written statement to
the Mayor setting forth the nature of the discrimination alleged and facts upon
which the allegation is based.
      (2)   Step two: The Mayor shall contact the complainant no later than 15
days after receiving the written statement to establish an informal meeting
with the objective of resolving the matter informally. However, in no case
shall the informal meeting be conducted sooner than five days nor more than 45
days after receiving the written statement. There shall be prepared a written
documentary of the discussions at the informal meeting, which shall be
preserved in the records of the city.
      (3)   Step three: Within 15 days of the informal meeting, if no decision
has been made by the Mayor or the decision of the Mayor does not satisfy the
complainant, he or she may request a hearing with the City Council by
submitting a written request to the Mayor.
      (4)   Step four: In thus discussing the grievance, the complainant may
designate any person of his choice to appear with him and participate in the
discussion. The City Council shall require the Mayor to participate in the
discussion of the grievance, when it is brought before the city. The city shall
issue a written decision on the matter within 15 days, and the decision shall
be the final procedure for the complainant at the local level. There shall be
prepared a written documentary of the discussion at the hearing, which shall be
preserved in the records of the city.
   (C)   The administration of these procedures and related federal and state
regulations shall be the responsibility of the Executive Authority of the city.
   (D)   These procedures may be amended by ordinance to comply with court
directives or additional federal and state regulations.
(Ord. 675, passed 4-3-84)
§ 39.02 CONTINUITY OF GOVERNMENT.
   When the temporary absence or temporary disability of the Mayor shall
prevent his or her serving in the Office of Mayor during a national, state or
local emergency, the duties and responsibilities of the Mayor shall be
administered temporarily by the City Clerk as set forth in KRS 83A.040.
(Ord. 05-09, passed 9-8-06)
Statutory reference:
   City Clerk-Treasurer, see §
31.36
   Mayor, see §
31.21
§ 39.03 IDENTITY THEFT PREVENTION PROGRAM.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of this program is to detect, prevent, and
mitigate identity theft by identifying and detecting identity theft red flags
and by responding to such red flags in a manner that will prevent identity
theft.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      CITY. The City of Cadiz, Kentucky.
      COVERED ACCOUNT. A utility account.
      CREDIT. The right granted by a creditor to a debtor to defer payment of
debt or to incur debts and defer its payment or to purchase property or
services and defer payment therefor.
      CREDITOR. Any person who regularly extends, renews, or continues credit,
any person who regularly arranges for the extension, renewal, or continuation
of credit, and any assignee of an original creditor who participates in the
decision to extend, renew, or continue credit. This term shall include lenders
such as banks, finance companies, automobile dealers, mortgage brokers, utility
companies, and telecommunications companies.
      CUSTOMER. A person who has a covered account with a creditor.
      PERSON. A natural person, a corporation, government or governmental
subdivision or agency, trust, estate, partnership, cooperative, or association.
      RED FLAG. A pattern, practice, or specific activity that indicates the
possible existence of identity theft.
      SERVICE PROVIDER. A person who provides a service directly to the city.
   (C)   Personal identifying information may be required. As a precondition to
opening a covered account in the city, each applicant may be required to
provide the city with personal identifying information such as a valid
government issued identification card containing a photograph of the applicant.
The authorized city personnel processing the application for a covered account
shall determine in his or her discretion whether personal identifying
information shall be provided by the applicant.
   (D)   Access to covered account information. Access to customer accounts
shall be limited to authorized city personnel. Any unauthorized access to or
other breach of customer accounts is to be reported immediately to the City
Clerk.
   (E)   Sources and types of red flags. All employees responsible for or
involved in the process of opening a covered account, restoring a covered
account, or accepting payment for a covered account shall check for red flags
as indicators of possible identity theft. Such red flags may include, but are
not limited to, the following:
      (1)   Alerts from consumer reporting agencies, fraud detection agencies,
or service providers;
      (2)   Suspicious documents. Examples of suspicious documents may include,
but are not limited to, the following:
         (a)   Documents provided for identification that appear to be altered
or forged;
         (b)   Identification on which the photograph or physical description
is inconsistent with the appearance of the applicant or customer;
         (c)   Identification on which the information is inconsistent with
information provided by the applicant or customer;
         (d)   Identification on which the information is inconsistent with
readily accessible information that is on file with the city; or
         (e)   An application that appears to have been altered or forged, or
appears to have been destroyed and reassembled.
      (3)   Suspicious personal identification such as suspicious address
change. Examples of suspicious personal identification may include, but are not
limited to, the following:
         (a)   Personal identifying information, phone number, or address is
associated with known fraudulent applications or activities as indicated by
internal or third-party sources used by the city;
         (b)   Other information provided such as fictitious mailing address,
mail drop addresses, jail addresses, invalid phone numbers, pager numbers, or
answering services is associated with fraudulent activity;
         (c)   The address or telephone number provided is the same as or
similar to the account number or telephone number submitted by an unusually
large number of applicants or customers;
         (d)   The applicant or customer fails to provide all required personal
identifying information on an application or in response to notification that
the application is incomplete;
         (e)   Personal identifying information is not consistent with personal
identifying information that is on file with the city; and
         (f)   The applicant or customer cannot provide authenticating
information beyond that which generally would be available from a wallet or
consumer report.
      (4)   Unusual use of or suspicious activity relating to a covered
account. Examples of suspicious activity may include, but are not limited to,
the following:
         (a)   Shortly following the notice of a change of address for an
account, the city receives a request for the addition of authorized users on
the account;
         (b)   An account is used in a manner that is not consistent with
established patterns of activity on the account. For example, there is
nonpayment when there is no history of late or missed payments;
         (c)   An account that has been inactive for a long period of time is
used;
         (d)   Mail sent to the customer is returned repeatedly as
undeliverable although transactions continue to be conducted in connection with
the customer’s account; and
         (e)   The city is notified of unauthorized charges or transactions in
connection with a customer’s account.
      (5)   Notice from customers, law enforcement, victims, or other reliable
sources regarding possible identity theft.
   (F)   Prevention and mitigation of identity theft.
      (1)   New account. In the event that any city employee responsible for or
involved in opening a new covered account becomes aware of red flags indicating
possible identity theft with respect to an application for a new account, such
employee shall use his or her discretion to determine whether such red flag or
combination of red flags suggests a threat of identity theft. If such employee
determines that identity theft or attempted identity theft is likely or
probable, such employee shall immediately report such red flags to the City
Clerk. The City Clerk shall determine whether to do one or more of the
following:
         (a)   Request additional identifying information from the applicant;
         (b)   Deny the application for the new account;
         (c)   Notify law enforcement; and
         (d)   Take other appropriate action to prevent or mitigate identity
theft.
      (2)   Existing account. In the event that any city employee responsible
for or involved in restoring an existing covered account or accepting payment
for a covered account becomes aware of red flags indicating possible identity
theft with respect to existing covered accounts, such employee shall use his or
her discretion to determine whether such red flag or combination of red flags
suggests a threat of identity theft. If such employee determines that identity
theft or attempted identity theft is likely or probable, such employee shall
immediately report such red flags to the City Clerk. The City Clerk shall
determine whether to do one or more of the following:
         (a)   Contact the customer;
         (b)   Make the following changes to the account if, after contacting
the customer, it is apparent that someone other than the customer has accessed
the customer’s covered account:
            1.   Change any account numbers, passwords, security codes, or
other security devices that permit access to an account; or
            2.   Close the account.
         (c)   Notify law enforcement; and
         (d)   Take other appropriate action to prevent or mitigate identity
theft.
   (G)   Updating the program. The City Clerk shall annually review and, as
deemed necessary by the City Clerk, recommend to the City Council updates to
the Identity Theft Prevention Program along with any relevant red flags in
order to reflect changes in risks to customers or to the safety and soundness
of the city and its covered accounts from identity theft. In doing so, the City
Clerk shall consider the following factors:
      (1)   The city’s experiences with identity theft;
      (2)   Updates in methods of identity theft;
      (3)   Updates in customary methods used to detect, prevent, and mitigate
identity theft;
      (4)   Updates in the types of accounts that the city offers or maintains;
and
      (5)   Updates in service provider arrangements.
   (H)   Program administration. The City Clerk is responsible for oversight of
the program and for program implementation. The City Clerk is responsible for
distributing a copy of the Identity Theft Prevention Program to all employees
responsible for or involved in opening a new covered account, restoring an
existing covered account, or accepting payment for a covered account.
   (I)   Outside service providers. In the event that the city engages a
service provider to perform an activity in connection with one or more covered
accounts, the City Clerk shall exercise his or her discretion in reviewing such
arrangements in order to reasonably ensure that the service provider’s
activities are designed to detect any red flags that may arise in the
performance of the service provider’s activities and take appropriate steps to
prevent or mitigate identity theft.
(Ord. 09-04, passed 3-3-09)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
Chapter
   
50.     SEWER USE
   
51.     SOLID WASTE
   
52.   WATER
CHAPTER 50: SEWER USE
Section
General Provisions
   
50.001   Purpose and policy
   
50.002   Definitions
   
50.003   Abbreviations
Use of Public Sewers
   
50.015   Mandatory sewer connections
   
50.016   Unlawful discharge to storm sewers or natural outlets
   
50.017   Compliance with local, state and federal law
   
50.018   Discharge of unpolluted waters into sewers
   
50.019   Prohibited discharges
Private Wastewater Disposal
   
50.030   Public sewer not available
   
50.031   Requirements for installation
Building Sewers and Connections
   
50.045   Permits
   
50.046   Prohibited connections
   
50.047   Design and installations
   
50.048   Inspection
Pollutant Discharge Limits
   
50.060   General conditions
   
50.061   Restricted discharges
   
50.062   Dilution of wastewater discharge
   
50.063   Grease, oil, and sand interceptors
   
50.064   Special industrial pretreatment requirements
   
50.065   Protection from accidental and slug discharges
   
50.066   State requirements
   
50.067   City’s right of revision
   
50.068   Federal categorical pretreatment standards
Pretreatment Program Administration
   
50.080   Wastewater discharges
   
50.081   Industrial user discharge permits
   
50.082   Permit modifications
   
50.083   Permit conditions
   
50.084   Alternative discharge limits
   
50.085   Permit duration
   
50.086   Permit transfer
   
50.087   Compliance data reporting
   
50.088   Periodic compliance reports
   
50.089   Permit violations
   
50.090   Monitoring
   
50.091   Inspection and sampling
   
50.092   Pretreatment
   
50.093   Annual publication
   
50.094   Significant non-compliance
   
50.095   Confidential information
   
50.096   Signatory requirements
Fees
   
50.110   Purpose
   
50.111   Charges and fees
Powers and Authority of Inspectors
   
50.125   Right to enter premises
   
50.126   Right to obtain information regarding discharge
   
50.127   Access to easements
Enforcement
   
50.140   General
   
50.141   Notice of violation
   
50.142   Administrative orders
   
50.143   Show cause hearing
   
50.144   Additional enforcement remedies
Penalties
   
50.155   Written notice
   
50.156   Revocation of permit
   
50.157   Liability
   
50.158   Misrepresentation and/or falsifying of documents
   
50.159   Destruction of POTW and legal action
   
50.160   Legal action
   
50.161   Injunctive relief
   
50.162   Civil penalties
   
50.163   Criminal prosecution
Validity
   
50.175   Conflict
Cross-reference:
   Minimum monthly sewer rates, see §
52.01
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 50.001 PURPOSE AND POLICY.
   (A)   This chapter sets forth uniform requirements for direct and indirect
contributors into the wastewater collection and treatment system for the City
of Cadiz and enables the city to comply with all applicable state and federal
laws required by the Clean Water Act of 1977 and the general pretreatment
regulations (40 C.F.R. Part 403).
   (B)   The objectives to this chapter are:
      (1)   To prevent the introduction of pollutants into the municipal
wastewater system which will interfere with the operation of the system or
contaminate the resulting sludge;
      (2)   To prevent the introduction of pollutants into the municipal
wastewater system which will pass through the system inadequately treated into
receiving waters so as to cause violations of the City’s KPDES permit or the
atmosphere or otherwise be incompatible with the system;
      (3)   To improve the opportunity to recycle and reclaim wastewaters and
sludges from the system;
      (4)   To provide for equitable distribution of the cost of the municipal
wastewater system;
      (5)   Provide for the safety of the treatment plant employees; and
      (6)   To ensure that the municipality complies with its KPDES or non-
discharge permit conditions, sludge permit conditions, including use and
disposal requirements and any other federal or state environmental laws to
which the municipal wastewater system is subject.
   (C)   This chapter provides for the regulation of direct and indirect
contribution to the municipal wastewater system through the issuance of permits
to certain non-domestic users and through enforcement of general requirements
for the other users, authorizes monitoring and enforcement activities, requires
user reporting and provides for the setting of fees for the equitable
distribution of costs resulting from the program established herein.
   (D)   This chapter shall apply to the City of Cadiz and to persons outside
the City who are, by contract or agreement with the City, users of the City
Publicly Owned Treatment Works (POTW). Except as otherwise provided herein, the
Superintendent shall administer, implement, and enforce the provisions of this
chapter.
(Ord. 14-11, passed 11-4-14)
§ 50.002 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACT or “THE ACT”.  The Federal Water Pollution Control Act, also known as
the Clean Water Act, as amended, 33 U.S. C. 1251 et seq.
   APPROVAL AUTHORITY.  The Secretary of the Kentucky Natural Resources and
Environmental Protection Cabinet or an authorized representative thereof.
   AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE.
      (1)   An AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE  of a user may be:
         (a)   A principal executive officer of at least the level of vice-
president, if the industrial user is a corporation;
         (b)   A general partner or proprietor if the user is a partnership or
proprietorship, respectively;
         (c)   A duly authorized representative of the individual designated
above if such representative is responsible for the overall operation of the
facilities from which the indirect discharge originates.
      (2)   An AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE of the city may be any person
designated by the city to act on its behalf.
   BASELINE MONITORING REPORT (BMR).  A report submitted by categorical
industrial users within 180 days after the effective date of a categorical
standard which indicates the compliance status of the user with the applicable
categorical standard (40 C.F.R. 403.12(b)).
   BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND (BOD).  The quantity of oxygen utilized in the
biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory procedure,
five days at 20° Celsius expressed in terms of weight and concentration in
milligrams per liter (mg/1).
   BUILDING DRAIN.  That part of the lowest horizontal piping of a drainage
system which receives the discharge from soil, water, and other drainage pipes
inside the walls of the building and conveys it to the building sewer,
beginning five feet outside the inner face of the building wall.
   BUILDING SEWER.  The extension from the building drain to the public sewer
or other place of disposal, also called “house connection”.
   BUILDING SEWER PERMIT.  As set forth in “Building Sewers and Connections”
(§§
50.045 through
50.048).
   CARBONACEOUS BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND (CBOD).  With chemical inhibition of
nitrification, the quantity of oxygen utilized in the biochemical oxidation of
organic matter under standard laboratory procedure, five days at 20° Celsius
expressed in terms of concentration in milligrams per liter (mg/l).
   CATEGORICAL INDUSTRIAL USER.  An industrial user subject to categorical
pretreatment standards which have been promulgated by EPA.
   CATEGORICAL PRETREATMENT STANDARDS.  National categorical pretreatment
standards or pretreatment standard. Any regulation containing pollutant
discharge limits promulgated by the EPA in accordance with § 307(b) and (c) of
the Act (33 U.S. C. § 1347) which applies to a specific category of industrial
users.
   CITY.  The City of Cadiz, Kentucky.
   CLEAN WATER ACT (CWA).  (Also known as the Federal Water Pollution Control
Act) enacted by Public Law 92-500, October 18,1972, 33 USC §§ 1251 et seq.: as
amended by PL 95-217, December 28,1977; PL 97-117, December 29,1981; PL 97-440,
January 8,1983, and PL 100-04, February 4,1987.
   COMBINED SEWER.  Any conduit designed to carry both sanitary sewage and
storm water or surface water.
   COMBINED WASTESTREAM FORMULA (CWF).  Procedure for calculating alternative
discharge limits at industrial facilities where a regulated wastestream is
combined with other non-regulated wastestreams prior to treatment (40 C.F.R.
403.7).
   COMPATIBLE POLLUTANT.  Biochemical oxygen demand, suspended solids and fecal
coliform bacteria; plus any additional pollutants identified in the POTW’s
NPDES/KPDES permit, where the POTW is designed to treat such pollutants and, in
fact, does treat such pollutants so as to ensure compliance with the POTW’s
NPDES/KPDES permit.
   CONCENTRATION-BASED LIMIT.  A limit based on the relative strength of a
pollutant in a wastestream, usually expressed in mg/l.
   CONTROL AUTHORITY.  The city when there exists an approved pretreatment
program under the provisions of 40 C.F.R. 403.11.
   COOLING WATER.  The water discharged from any use such as air conditioning,
cooling or refrigeration, or to which the only pollutant added is heat.
   DAILY MAXIMUM.  The maximum allowable value for any single observation in a
given day.
   DILUTE WASTESTREAM.  Boiler blowdown, sanitary wastewater, noncontact
cooling water and certain process wastestreams that have been excluded from
regulation in categorical pretreatment standards because they contain none or
only trace amounts of the regulated pollutant.
   DIRECT DISCHARGE.  The discharge of treated or untreated wastewater directly
to the waters of the Commonwealth of Kentucky.
   DISCHARGER.  Any person that discharges or causes a discharge to a public
sewer.
   DOMESTIC WASTEWATER.  The water-carried wastes produced from non-commercial
or non-industrial activities and which result from normal human living
processes.
   EASEMENT.  An acquired legal right for the specific use of land owned by
others.
   EFFLUENT.  The liquid overflow of any facility designed to treat, convey or
retain wastewater.
   ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY or EPA.  The U.S. Environmental Protection
Agency, or where appropriate the term may also be used as a designation for the
Administrator or other duly authorized official of the agency.
   EQUIPMENT.  All movable, non-fixed items necessary to the wastewater
treatment process.
   FLOW PROPORTIONAL COMPOSITE SAMPLE.  Combination of individual samples
proportional to the flow of the wastestream at the time of sampling.
   FLOW WEIGHTED AVERAGING FORMULA (FWA).  A procedure used to calculate
alternative limits for a categorical pretreatment standard where regulated and
nonregulated wastestreams combine after treatment, but prior to the monitoring
point as defined in 40 C.F.R. 403.
   GARBAGE.  The animal and vegetable waste resulting from the handling,
preparation, cooking and serving of foods.
   GRAB SAMPLE.  A sample which is taken from a wastestream on a one-time basis
with no regard to the flow in the waste stream and without consideration of
time.
   HOLDING TANK WASTE.  Any waste from holding tanks such as vessels, chemical
toilets, campers, trailers, septic tanks, and vacuum-pump tank trucks.
   INCOMPATIBLE POLLUTANT.  All pollutants other than compatible pollutants as
defined in COMPATIBLE POLLUTANT  herein.
   INDIRECT DISCHARGE.  The discharge or the introduction of non-domestic
pollutants from any source regulated under § 307(b) or (c) of the Act, (33 U.S.
C. § 1317), into the POTW (including holding tank waste discharged into the
system).
   INDUSTRIAL USER (IU).  A source of indirect discharge.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTES.  The wastewater from industrial or commercial processes
as distinct from domestic or sanitary wastes.
   INTERCEPTOR.  A device designed and installed so as to separate and retain
deleterious, hazardous or undesirable matter from normal wastes which permits
normal sewage or liquid wastes to discharge into the sewer or drainage system
by gravity. INTERCEPTOR  as defined herein is commonly referred to as a grease,
oil, or sand trap.
   INTERFERENCE.  A discharge which alone or in conjunction with a discharge or
discharges from other sources:
      (1)   Inhibits or disrupts the POTW, its treatment processes or
operations, or its sludge processes, use or disposal; and/or
      (2)   Is a cause of a violation of any requirement of the POTW’s NPDES/
KPDES permit (including an increase in the magnitude or duration of a
violation) or of the prevention of sewage sludge use or disposal in compliance
with the following statutory provisions and regulations or permits issued
thereunder (or more stringent state or local regulations): § 405 of the Clean
Water Act, the Solid Waste Disposal Act (SWDA) (including Title II, more
commonly referred to as the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act (RCRA), and
including state regulations contained in any state sludge management plan
prepared pursuant to Subtitle D of the SWDA, the Clean Air Act, the Toxic
Substances Control Act, and the Marine Protection, Research and Sanctuaries Act
(40 C.F.R. 403.3).
   MAY.  This is permissive (see SHALL ).
   MEDICAL WASTE.  Isolation wastes, infectious agents, human blood products,
pathological wastes, sharps, body parts, contaminated bedding, surgical wastes,
potentially contaminated laboratory wastes, and dialysis wastes.
   MONTHLY AVERAGE.  The maximum allowable value for the average of all
observations obtained during one month.
   MULTI-UNIT SEWER CUSTOMER.  A location served where there are two or more
residential units or apartments, two or more businesses in the same building or
complex or where there is any combination of business and residence in the same
building or complex.
   NATIONAL CATEGORICAL PRETREATMENT STANDARD OR PRETREATMENT STANDARD.  Any
regulation containing pollutant discharge limits promulgated by the EPA in
accordance with § 307(b) and (c) of the Clean Water Act which applies to a
specific category of industrial users. This term includes prohibitive discharge
limits established pursuant to 40 C.F.R. 403.5.
   NATIONAL (OR KENTUCKY) POLLUTANT DISCHARGE ELIMINATION SYSTEM OR NPDES/KPDES
PERMIT.  A permit issued pursuant to § 402 of the Act (33 U.S. C. § 1332), or a
permit issued by the Commonwealth of Kentucky under this authority and referred
to as KPDES.
   NATURAL OUTLET.  Any outlet, including storm sewers, into a watercourse,
pond, ditch, lake, or other body of surface or groundwater.
   NEW SOURCE.
      (1)   Any building, structure, facility or installation from which there
is, or may be a discharge of pollutants, the construction of which commenced
after the publication of proposed Pretreatment Standards under § 307( c) of the
Act which will be applicable to such source if such standards are thereafter
promulgated in accordance with that section, provided that:
         (a)   The building, structure, facility or installation is constructed
at a site at which no other source is located; or
         (b)   The building, structure, facility or installation totally
replaces the process or production equipment that causes the discharge of
pollutants at an existing source; or
         (c)   The production or wastewater generating processes of the
building, structure, facility or installation are substantially independent of
an existing source at the same site.
         (d)   In determining whether these are substantially independent,
factors such as the extent to which the new facility is integrated with the
existing plant, and the extent to which the new facility is engaged in the same
general type of activity as the existing source should be considered.
      (2)   Construction on a site at which an existing source is located
results in a modification rather than a new source if the construction does not
create a new building, structure, facility, or installation meeting the
criteria of (b) or (c) above but otherwise alters, replaces, or adds to
existing process or production equipment.
   NINETY (90) DAY COMPLIANCE REPORT.  A report submitted by a categorical
industrial user, within 90 days following the date for final compliance with
applicable categorical standards that documents and certifies the compliance
status of the user (40 CFR. 403.12(d)).
   ORDINANCE.  This chapter, unless otherwise specified.
   PASS THROUGH.  A discharge of pollutant which cannot be treated adequately
by the POTW, and therefore exits into waters of the United States in quantities
or concentrations which, alone or in conjunction with a discharge or discharges
from other sources, is a cause of a violation of any requirement of the POTW’s
NPDES/KPDES permit (including an increase in the magnitude or duration of a
violation)(40 CFR 403.3).
   PERIODIC COMPLIANCE REPORT.  A report on compliance status submitted by
significant industrial users to the Control Authority at least semiannually (40
C.F.R. 403.12(e)).
   PERSON.  Any individual, partnership, co-partnership, firm, company,
corporation, association, joint stock company, trust, estates, government
entity or any other legal entity, or their legal representatives, agent or
assigns. The masculine gender shall include the feminine, the singular shall
include the plural where indicated by the context.
   pH.  The logarithm of the reciprocal of the hydrogen ion concentration. The
concentration is the weight of hydrogen ions, in grams, per liter of solution.
   POLLUTION.  The man-made or man-induced alteration of the chemical,
physical, biological, and radiological integrity of water.
   POLLUTANT.  Any dredged spoil, solid waste, incinerator residue, sewage,
garbage, sewage sludge, munitions, chemical, wrecked or discharged equipment,
rock, sand, cellar dirt and industrial, municipal, and agricultural waste
discharged into water, including medical wastes, chemical wastes, biological
materials, radioactive materials, heat, and certain characteristics of
wastewater (e.g. pH, temperature, TSS, turbidity, color, CBOD, COD, toxicity,
or odor).
   POTW TREATMENT PLANT.  That portion of the POTW designed to provide
treatment to wastewater.
   PRETREATMENT OR TREATMENT.  The reduction of the amount of pollutants, the
elimination of pollutants, or the alteration of the nature of pollutant
properties in wastewater to a less harmful state prior to or in lieu of
discharging or otherwise introducing such pollutants into a POTW. The reduction
or alteration can be obtained by physical, chemical or biological processes, or
process change(s), or other means, except as prohibited by 40 C.F.R. 403.6(d).
   PROCESS WASTEWATER.  Any water which, during manufacturing or processing,
comes into direct contact with or results from the production of or use of any
raw material, intermediate product, finished product, by-product, or waste
product.
   PRODUCTION-BASED STANDARD.  A discharge limitation expressed in terms of
allowable pollutant mass discharge rate per unit of production and is applied
directly to an industrial user’s manufacturing process.
   PROHIBITIVE DISCHARGE STANDARD.  Any regulation developed under the
authority of § 307(b) of the Act and 40 C.F.R. § 403.(5).
   PROPERLY SHREDDED GARBAGE.  The wastes from the preparation, cooking, and
dispensing of food that has been shredded to such a degree that all particles
will be carried freely under the flow conditions normally prevailing in public
sewers, with no particle greater than ½ inch in any dimension.
   PUBLIC SEWER.  A common sewer controlled by a governmental agency or public
utility. In general, the public sewer shall include the main sewer in the
street and the service branch to the curb or properly line, or a main sewer on
private property and the service branch to the extent of ownership by public
authority.
   PUBLICLY OWNED TREATMENT WORKS (POTW).  A treatment works as defined by §
212 of the Act, (33 U.S. C. § 1292) which is owned in this instance by the
city. This definition includes any sewers that convey wastewater to the POTW
treatment plant, but does not include pipes, sewers, or other conveyances not
connected to a facility providing treatment. For the purpose of this chapter,
POTW shall also include any sewers that convey wastewaters to the POTW from
persons outside the city who are, by contract or agreement with the city, users
of the city’s POTW .
   REGULATED WASTESTREAM.  An industrial process wastestream regulated by a
National Categorical Pretreatment Standard.
   SANITARY SEWER.  A sewer that carries liquid and water-carried wastes from
residences, commercial buildings, industrial plants and institutions.
   SEWAGE.  Any and all facilities used for collecting, conveying, pumping,
treating and disposing of wastewater.
   SEWER.  A pipe or conduit that carries wastewater or drainage water.
   SEWER SYSTEM OR WORKS.  All facilities for collecting, transporting,
pumping, treatment and disposing of sewage and sludge, namely the sewerage
system and the POTW.
   SEWER USER CHARGES.  A system of charges levied on users of a POTW for the
cost of operation and maintenance, including replacement of such works.
   SEWERAGE.  Any and all facilities used for collecting, conveying, pumping,
treating and disposing of wastewater.
   SHALL.  Is mandatory (see MAY ).
   SIGNIFICANT INDUSTRIAL USER (SIU).  Defined by EPA guidance as:
      (1)   All industrial users subject to categorical pretreatment standards
under 40 C.F.R. 403.6 and 40 C.F.R. Chapter I, Subchapter N; and
      (2)   Any noncategorical industrial user that:
         (a)   Discharges 25,000 gallons per day or more of process wastewater
(“process wastewaters); or
         (b)   Contributes a process wastestream which makes up to five percent
or more of the average dry weather hydraulic or organic (BOD, TSS, and the
like) capacity of the treatment plant; or
         (c)   Has a reasonable potential, in the opinion of the control or
approval authority, to adversely affect the pollutants, sludge contamination or
endangerment of POTW worker(s).
   SLUG DISCHARGE.  Any discharge of a non-routine episodic nature including,
but not limited to, an accidental spill or non-customary batch discharge or any
discharge of water or wastewater in which the concentration of any given
constituent or quantity of flow exceeds, for any duration longer than 15
minutes, more than five times the average 24 hour concentration or flow rate
during normal operation which adversely affects the POTW.
   SLUG LOAD.  Any pollutant (including biochemical oxygen demand) released in
a discharge at a flow rate or concentration which will cause interference with
the operation of the treatment works or which exceeds limits set forth in the
industry’s discharge permit and which include accidental spills.
   SPILL PREVENTION AND CONTROL PLAN.  A plan prepared by an industrial user to
minimize the likelihood of a spill and to expedite control and cleanup
activities should a spill occur.
   SPLIT SAMPLE.  Portion of a collected sample given to the industry or to
another agency to verify or compare laboratory results.
   STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION (SIC).  A classification scheme based on
the type of industry or process at a facility.
   STANDARD METHODS.  The examination and analytical procedures set forth in
the recent editions of Standard Methods for the Examination of Water and
Wastewater, published jointly by the American Public Health Association, the
American Water Works Association, and the Water Pollution Control Federation as
specified at 40 C.F.R. 136.
   STATE.  Commonwealth of Kentucky.
   STORM DRAIN  (Sometimes termed “storm sewer”). A drain or sewer for
conveying water, groundwater, surface water, or unpolluted water from any
source.
   STORM WATER.  Any flow occurring during or following any form of natural
precipitation and resulting therefrom.
   SUPERINTENDENT.  The person designated by the city to supervise the publicly
owned treatment works and who is charged with certain duties and
responsibilities by this chapter or his or her duly authorized representative.
   SURCHARGE.  A charge for services in addition to the basic sewer user and
debt service charges, for those users whose contributions contain Biochemical
Oxygen Demand (BOD5), Chemical Oxygen Demand (COD), Total Suspended Solids
(TSS), oil and grease or ammonia-nitrogen (NH3-N) in concentrations which
exceed limits specified herein for such pollutants. Where authorized by the
control authority, payment of a SURCHARGE  will authorize the discharge of the
referenced pollutants so long as the discharge does not cause pass through or
interference.
   SUSPENDED SOLIDS.  Total suspended matter that either floats on the surface
of, or is in suspension in, water, wastewater, or other liquids and that is
removable by laboratory filtering as prescribed in Standard Methods for the
Examination of Water and Wastewater.
   TIME PROPORTIONAL COMPOSITE SAMPLE.  Combination of individual samples with
fixed volumes taken at special time intervals.
   TOXIC ORGANIC MANAGEMENT PLAN.  Written plan submitted by industrial users
as an alternative to TTO monitoring, which specifies toxic organic compounds
used, the method of disposal used and procedures for assuring that toxic
organics do not routinely spill or leak into wastewater discharge to the POTW.
   TOXIC POLLUTANT.  Any pollutant or combination of pollutants listed as toxic
in regulations promulgated by the Administrator of EPA under the provisions of
the Clean Water Act § 307(a) or any amendments thereto.
   UNPOLLUTED WATER.  Water of quality equal to or better than the treatment
works effluent criteria in effect, or water that would not cause violation of
receiving water quality standards and would not be benefited by discharge to
the sanitary sewers and wastewater treatment facilities.
   UNREGULATED WASTESTREAM.  A wastestream that is not regulated by a National
Categorical Pretreatment Standards.
   USER.  Any person who contributes, causes or permits the contribution of
wastewater into the POTW.
   WASTEWATER.  The spent water of a community, sanitary or domestic wastes
shall mean the liquid and water-carried wastes from residences, commercial
buildings and institutions as distinct from industrial waste.
   WASTEWATER DISCHARGE PERMIT (WDP).  A permit issued to industrial users
which authorizes discharges to the public sewer as set forth in §§ 50.080
through 50.096.
   WASTEWATER FACILITIES.  The structures, equipment, and processes required to
collect, carry away, treat domestic and industrial wastes, and dispose of the
effluent.
   WASTEWATER TREATMENT WORKS.  An arrangement of devices and structures for
treating wastewater, industrial wastes, and sludge. Sometimes used as
synonymous with “waste treatment plant” or “wastewater treatment plant” or
“water pollution control plant” or “sewage treatment plant”.
   WATERCOURSE.  A natural or artificial channel for the passage of water
either continuously or intermittently.
   WATERS OF THE STATE.  All streams, lakes, ponds, marshes, watercourses,
waterways, wells, springs, reservoirs, aquifers, irrigation systems, drainage
systems and all other bodies or accumulations of water, surface or underground,
natural or artificial, public or private, which are contained within, flow
through, or border upon the state or any portion thereof.
(Ord. 14-11, passed 11-4-14)
§ 50.003 ABBREVIATIONS.
   The following abbreviations shall have the designated meanings:
      ADMI   - American Dye Manufacturers Institute
      ASTM   - American Institute for Testing and Materials
      BMP   - Best management practices
      BOD   - Biochemical oxygen demand
      BPJ   - Best professional judgment
      CFR   - Code of Federal Regulations
      CIU   - Categorical industrial user
      COD   - Chemical oxygen demand
      CWA   - Clean Water Act (33 U.S.C. §§ 1251 et seq.)
      CWF   - Combines wastestream formula
      EPA   - Environmental Protection Agency
      FWA   - Flow weighted average
      FR   - Federal Register
      gpd   - Gallons per day
      IU   - Industrial user
      L   - Liter
      mg   - Milligrams
      mg/l   - Milligrams per liter
      NPDES- National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System
      KPDES- Kentucky Pollutant Discharge Elimination System
      POTW   - Publicly owned treatment works
      RCRA   - Resource Conservation and Recovery Act
      SIC   - Standard industrial classification
      SIU   - Significant industrial user
      SWDA   - Solid Waste Disposal Act, 42 U.S.C. 6901 et seq.
      TSS   - Total suspended solids
      TTO   - Total toxic organics
      USC   - United States Code
(Ord. 14-11, passed 11-4-14)
USE OF PUBLIC SEWERS
§ 50.015 MANDATORY SEWER CONNECTION.
   (A)   The owner(s) of all houses, buildings, or properties used for human
occupancy, employment, recreation, or other purposes, situated within the city
and abutting on any street, alley, or right-of-way in which there is now
located or may in the future be located a public sanitary sewer of the city, is
hereby required at the owner’s expense to install suitable toilet facilities
therein, and to connect such facilities directly with the proper sewer in
accordance with the provisions of this chapter, within 90 days after date of
official notice to do so, provided that said public sewer is within one 100
feet (30.5 meters) of the property line.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to construct or maintain any privy, privy vault,
septic tank, cesspool, or other facility intended or used for the disposal of
wastewater where public sanitary sewer service is available, as defined in
division (A) of this section, except as provided for in §§
50.030 and
50.031.
   (C)   At such time as a public sewer becomes available to a property served
by a private wastewater disposal system, a direct connection shall be made to
the public system within 60 days in compliance with this chapter, and any
septic tanks, cesspools and similar private wastewater disposal facilities
shall be cleaned of sludge and filled with suitable material or salvaged and
removed.
(Ord. 14-11, passed 11-4-14) Penalty, see §§
50.155 et seq.
§ 50.016 UNLAWFUL DISCHARGE TO STORM SEWERS OR NATURAL OUTLETS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, deposit, or permit to be
deposited any pollutant in any unsanitary manner on public or private property
within the city or in any area under the jurisdiction of the city except in
compliance with the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to discharge to any natural outlet or storm sewer
within the city or in any area under the jurisdiction of the city, any sanitary
wastewater or other polluted waters, except where suitable treatment or
management has been provided in accordance with subsequent provisions of this
chapter. No provision of this chapter shall be construed to relieve the owner
of a discharge to any natural outlet of the responsibility for complying with
applicable state and federal regulations governing such discharge.
(Ord. 14-11, passed 11-4-14) Penalty, see §§
50.155 et seq.
§ 50.017 COMPLIANCE WITH LOCAL, STATE AND FEDERAL LAWS.
   The discharge of any wastewater into the public sewer system by any person
is unlawful except in compliance with the provisions of this chapter, and any
more stringent state or federal standards promulgated pursuant to the Federal
Water Pollution Control Act Amendments of 1972, the Clean Water Act of 1977,
and subsequent amendments, and 40 C.F.R. 403.
(Ord. 14-11, passed 11-4-14) Penalty, see §§
50.155 et seq.
§ 50.018 DISCHARGE OF UNPOLLUTED WATERS INTO SEWER.
   (A)   No person(s) shall discharge or cause to be discharged, through any
leak, defect, or connection any unpolluted waters such as storm water,
groundwater, roof runoff or subsurface drainage to any sanitary sewer, building
sewer, building drain or building plumbing. The Superintendent or his
representative shall have the right, at any time, to inspect the inside or
outside of buildings or smoke test for connections, leaks, or defects to
building sewers and require disconnection or repair of any pipes carrying such
water to the building sewer. No sanitary drain sump or sump pump discharge by
manual switch-over of discharge connection shall have a dual use for removal of
such water.
   (B)   The owners of any building sewers having such connections, leaks, or
defects shall bear all costs incidental to removal of such sources.
(Ord. 14-11, passed 11-4-14) Penalty, see §§
50.155 et seq.
§ 50.019 PROHIBITED DISCHARGES.
   No user shall contribute or cause to be contributed, directly or indirectly,
any pollutant or wastewater which will interfere with performance of the POTW.
These general prohibitions apply to all such users of a POTW whether or not the
user is subject to National Categorical Pretreatment Standards or any other
national, state, or local pretreatment standards or requirements. A user shall
not contribute the following substances to the POTW:
   (A)   Any liquids, solids or gases which by reason of their nature or
quantity are, or may be, sufficient either alone or by interaction with other
substances to cause fire or explosion or be injurious in any other way to the
POTW or to the operation of the POTW. At no time shall the wastewater exhibit a
closed cup flashpoint of less than 140° Fahrenheit or 60° Centigrade using the
test methods specified in 40 C.F.R. 261.21.
   (B)   Any waters or wastes having a pH lower than five or higher than ten or
having any other corrosive property capable of causing damage or hazard to
structures, equipment, and personnel of the POTW.
   (C)   Any slug load of pollutants, including oxygen demanding pollutants
(BOD and the like) released at a flow rate and/or concentration that will cause
interference with the normal operation of the POTW.
   (D)   Solid or viscous substances in quantities or of such size capable of
causing obstruction to the flow in sewers, or other interference with the
proper operation of the wastewater facilities (i.e., wood, glass, ashes, sand,
cinders, unshredded garbage, paper products such as cups, dishes, napkins and
milk containers, and the like).
   (E)   Any wastewater having a temperature which will inhibit biological
activity in the POTW treatment plant resulting in interference, but in no case
wastewater with a temperature at the introduction into the POTW that will
result in a treatment plant influent temperature which exceeds 40° C (104° F).
   (F)   Any pollutant(s) which result in the presence of toxic gases, vapors
or fumes within the POTW in a quantity that may cause acute worker health and
safety problems.
   (G)   Any substance which may cause the POTW’s effluent or any other product
of the POTW such as residues, sludges, or scum, to be unsuitable for
reclamation and reuse or to interfere with the reclamation process where the
POTW is pursuing a reuse and reclamation program. In no case shall a substance
discharged to the POTW cause the POTW to be in noncompliance with sludge use or
disposal criteria, guidelines or regulations developed under Section 405 of the
act; any criteria, guidelines, or regulations affecting sludge use or disposal
developed pursuant to the Solid Waste Disposal Act, the Clean Air Act, the
Toxic Substances Control Act, or State criteria applicable to the sludge
management method being used.
   (H)   Any substance which will cause the POTW to violate its NPDES/KPDES
Permit and/or sludge disposal system permit.
   (I)   Petroleum oil, non-biodegradable cutting oil, or products of mineral
oil origin in amounts that will cause interference or pass through at the POTW.
   (J)   Any trucked or hauled pollutants except at discharge points designed
by the POTW.
(Ord. 14-11, passed 11-4-14) Penalty, see §§
50.155 et seq.
PRIVATE WASTEWATER DISPOSAL
§ 50.030 PUBLIC SEWER NOT AVAILABLE.
   (A)   Where a public sanitary sewer is not available under the provisions of
“Use of Public Sewer” (§§
50.015 through
50.019), the building sewer shall be connected, until the public sewer is
available, to a private wastewater disposal system complying with the
provisions of the Trigg County Health Department and all applicable local and
state regulations.
   (B)   The owner shall operate and maintain the private sewage disposal
facilities in a sanitary manner at all times, at no expense to the city.
   (C)   No statement contained in this subchapter shall be construed to
interfere with any additional requirements that may be imposed by applicable
local or state regulations.
   (D)   Holders of NPDES/KPDES permits may be excepted. Industries with
current NPDES/KPDES permits may discharge at permitted discharge points
provided they are in compliance with the issuing authority.
(Ord. 14-11, passed 11-4-14)
§ 50.031 REQUIREMENTS FOR INSTALLATION.
   (A)   The type, capacity, location and layout of a private sewage disposal
system shall comply with all local or state regulations.
   (B)   A permit for a private sewage disposal system shall not become
effective until the installation is completed to the satisfaction of the local
and state authorities.
(Ord. 14-11, passed 11-4-14)
BUILDING SEWERS AND CONNECTIONS
§ 50.045 PERMITS.
   (A)   There shall be two classes of building sewer permits required; (a) for
residential and (b) for service to commercial and industrial establishments. In
either case, the owner(s) or his agent shall make application on a special form
furnished by the city. Applicants for service to commercial and industrial
establishments shall be required to furnish information about all waste
producing activities, wastewater characteristics and constituents. The permit
application shall be supplemented by any plans, specifications, or other
information considered pertinent in the judgment of the Superintendent. Details
regarding commercial and industrial permits include, but are not limited to
those required by this chapter. Permit and inspection fees shall be paid to the
city at the time the application is filed.
   (B)   Users shall promptly notify the city in advance of any introduction of
wastewater constituents or any substantial change in the volume or character of
the wastewater constituents being introduced into the POTW. The Superintendent
may deny or condition the new introduction or change in discharge based on the
information submitted in the notification or additional information as may be
requested.
   (C)   No person(s) shall uncover, plug or make any connection with or
opening into, use, alter, or disturb any public sewer or appurtenance thereof
without first obtaining permission from the Superintendent.
(Ord. 14-11, passed 11-4-14) Penalty, see §§
50.155 et seq.
§ 50.046 PROHIBITED CONNECTIONS.
   No person shall make connection of roof downspouts, basement wall seepage or
floor seepage, exterior foundation drains, areaway drains, or other surface
runoff or groundwater to a building sewer or building drain which in turn is
connected directly or indirectly to a public sanitary sewer. Any such
connections which already exist on the effective date of this chapter shall be
completely and permanently disconnected within 60 days of the effective date of
this chapter. The owner(s) of any building sewers having such connections,
leaks or defects shall bear all costs incidental to removal of such sources.
Pipes, sumps, and pumps for such sources of ground and surface water shall be
separate from wastewater facilities. Removal of such sources of water without
presence of separate facilities shall be evidence of drainage to public
sanitary sewer.
(Ord. 14-11, passed 11-4-14) Penalty, see §§
50.155 et seq.
§ 50.047 DESIGN AND INSTALLATIONS.
   (A)   A separate and independent building sewer shall be provided for every
building; except where one building stands at the rear of another on an
interior lot and no private sewer is available or can be constructed to the
rear building through an adjoining alley, courtyard, or driveway. The sewer
from the front building may be extended to the rear building and the whole
considered as one building sewer, but the city does not and will not assume any
obligations or responsibility for damage caused by or resulting from any such
single connection aforementioned.
   (B)   Old building sewers may be used in connection with new buildings only
when they are found, on examination and test by the Superintendent, to meet all
requirements of this chapter. Permit and inspection fees for new buildings
using existing building sewers shall be the same as for new building sewers. If
additional sewer customers are added to the old building sewers, additional
sewer tap fees shall be charged accordingly even though no new sewer tap is
actually made into the city system.
   (C)   Extension of customer service lines from any point on the customer’s
side of the tap for delivery of waste from any location other than that of the
customer in whose name the tap is registered shall not be permitted.
   (D)   The building sewer shall be cast iron soil pipe, ASTM A-74, latest
revision, PVC (polyvinyl-chloride) sewer pipe, ASTM D-3034, latest version, or
ductile iron pipe, AWWA specification C-151 cement lined, and shall meet
requirements of state plumbing code. Joints shall be as set out hereinafter.
Any part of the building sewer that is located within five feet of a water
service pipe shall be constructed with cast iron soil pipe or ductile iron
pipe, unless the building sewer is at least one foot deeper in the ground than
the water service line. Cast iron soil pipe or ductile iron pipe shall be used
in filled or unstable ground, in areas where the cover over the building sewer
is less than three feet, or in areas where the sewer is subject to vehicular or
other external loads.
   (E)   The size, slope, alignment, materials of construction of a building
sewer, and the methods to be used in excavating, placing of the pipe, jointing,
testing, and backfilling the trench, shall all conform to the requirements of
the local and state building and plumbing codes and other applicable rules and
regulations of the city.
   (F)   All costs and expenses incidental to the installation and connection
to the building sewer shall be borne by the owner(s). The owner(s) shall
indemnify the city for any loss or damage that may directly or indirectly be
occasioned by the installation of the building sewer. Fees for connection shall
be as established by the city.
   (G)   The owner shall ensure all excavations for building sewer installation
shall be adequately guarded with barricades and lights so as to protect the
public from hazard. Streets, sidewalks, parkways, and other public property
disturbed in the course of the work shall be restored in a manner satisfactory
to the city.
   (H)   In all buildings in which any sanitary facility drain is too low to
permit gravity flow to the public sewer, sanitary sewage carried by such drain
shall be lifted by an approved means and discharged to the same building sewer.
Drain pipe and sump for collection of such sanitary drainage shall be above
basement floor or in separately watertight or drained sump or channel.
   (I)   The building sewer shall be connected into the public sewer at the
easement or property line. Where no property located service branch is
available, an authorized agent of the city shall cut a neat hole into the main
line of the public sewer and a suitable wye or tee saddle installed to receive
the building sewer. The invert of the building sewer at such point of
connection with a saddle shall be in the upper quadrant to the main line of the
public sewer. A neat workmanlike connection, not extending past the inner
surface of the public sewer, shall be made and the saddle made secure and
watertight by encasement in epoxy cement specially prepared for this purpose. A
wye fitting shall be installed at the property line between the public sewer
and the building sewer. This fitting shall serve the purpose of a clean out and
for applying the smoke test during inspection of the line. After testing, a
cast iron or ductile iron riser will be inserted in this fitting and brought
flush with the ground surface. A stopper or plug, outfitted with a type joint
applicable to the pipe used, shall seal this riser against the intrusion of
ground or surface water.
   (J)   All building sanitary sewer lines will be installed so as to meet or
exceed the most current revision of the State Plumbing Code.
(Ord. 14-11, passed 11-4-14)
§ 50.048 INSPECTION.
   (A)   The applicant for the building sewer permit shall notify the
Superintendent when the building sewer is ready for connection to the public
sewer. The connection shall be made under the supervision of the Superintendent
or his representative. The connections shall be made gastight and watertight
and verified by proper testing.
   (B)   All building sewers shall be smoke tested through the wye branch at
the public sewer connection, with public sewer tightly plugged off, after
connections at both ends are made and after all pipe is properly bedded and
backfilled at least to top of pipe and if backfill is completed, within two
weeks after completion of backfill. At time of test, any openings into the
building drain inside the building shall be water trapped or plugged. Any
leakage of smoke from building sewer or building drain and plumbing shall be
located at test and repaired to stand repetition of smoke test without leakage.
When smoke testing is completed, the temporary flow line plug shall be removed
and a permanent watertight plug shall be placed in branch of test wye-branch
and carefully backfilled by hand and tamped to at least six inches above the
top of the branch.
(Ord. 14-11, passed 11-4-14)
POLLUTANT DISCHARGE LIMITS
§ 50.060 GENERAL CONDITIONS.
   The following described substances, materials, waters or wastes shall be
limited in discharges to municipal systems to concentration or quantities
which: will not harm either the sewers, wastewater treatment process or
equipment, will maintain and protect water quality in the receiving stream, and
will not otherwise endanger lives, limb, public property, or constitute a
nuisance. The Superintendent may set additional limitations or limitations more
stringent than those established in the provisions below if in his opinion more
severe limitations are necessary to meet the above objectives. In forming his
opinion as to the acceptability of a discharge, the Superintendent shall give
consideration to such factors as the quantity of subject waste in relation to
flows and velocities in the sewers, materials of construction of the sewers,
the wastewater treatment process employed, capacity of the wastewater treatment
plant, and other pertinent factors.
(Ord. 14-11, passed 11-4-14)
§ 50.061 RESTRICTED DISCHARGES.
   (A)   Wastewater containing more than 50 milligrams per liter of petroleum
oil, non-biodegradable cutting oils, or products of mineral oil origin.
   (B)   Wastewater containing floatable oils, fat, or grease, whether
emulsified or not, in excess of 100 milligrams per liter (100 mg/l) or
containing substances which may solidify or become viscous at temperatures 32-
150°F (0-65°C).
   (C)   Any garbage that has not been properly shredded. Garbage grinders
maybe connected to sanitary sewers from homes, motels, institutions,
restaurants, hospitals, catering establishments, or similar places where
garbage originates from the preparation of food in kitchens for the purpose of
consumption on the premises or when served by caterers.
   (D)   Any wastewater containing toxic pollutants in sufficient quantity,
either singly or by interaction with other pollutants which: injure or
interfere with any wastewater treatment process, constitute a hazard to humans
or animals, causes the city to violate the terms of its KPDES permit, prevents
the use of acceptable sludge disposal methods, or exceed a limitation set forth
in a categorical pretreatment standard.
   (E)   Any radioactive wastes or isotopes of such half-life or concentration
as may exceed limits established by the city in compliance with applicable
state and federal regulations.
   (F)   Any water or wastes which by interaction with other water or wastes in
the public sewer system, release obnoxious gases, form suspended solids which
interfere with the collection system or create a condition deleterious to
structures and treatment processes.
   (G)   Any wastewater with objectable color which cannot be removed to an
acceptable level within the operation of the wastewater treatment process.
   (H)   Waters or wastes containing substances which are not amenable to
treatment or reduction by the wastewater treatment processes employed to the
extent required by the city’s NPDES/KPDES permit.
   (I)   Any waste(s) or wastewater(s) classified as a hazardous waste by the
Resource Conservation and Recovery Act (RCRA) without a 60 day prior
notification of such discharge to the Superintendent. This notification must
include the name of the hazardous waste, the EPA hazardous waste number, type
of discharge, volume/mass of discharge and time of occurrence(s). The
Superintendent may prohibit or condition the discharge(s) at any time.
   (J)   Wastewater identified as causing, alone or in conjunction with other
sources, the treatment plant’s effluent to fail a toxicity test.
   (K)   Recognizable portions of human or animal anatomy.
   (L)   Any wastes containing detergents, surface active agents, or other
substances which will cause excessive foaming in the municipal wastewater
system.
   (M)   (1)   Any water or wastes which have characteristics based on a 24
hour composite sample, grab or a shorter period composite sample, if more
representative, that exceed the following normal maximum domestic wastewater
parameter concentrations:
 
Parameter            Maximum Allowable
                     Concentration Without Surcharges
BOD                  250 mg/l
COD                  375 mg/l
TSS                  250 mg/l
NH3-N                40 mg/l
Oil & grease (total) 100 mg/l
      (2)   Any person discharging wastewater exceeding the maximum allowable
concentration as noted above, will be subject to a surcharge fee for each pound
loading over and above the set limit. Any other amenable constituents requiring
the addition of specific chemicals for proper treatment will also be subject to
a surcharge as noted on the wastewater discharge permit. Exceeding the effluent
limits specified above shall not be deemed to constitute a violation of a
permit condition of this chapter if the appropriate surcharge fee is paid and
the discharge does not cause interference or pass through of the POTW.
   (N)   The following limitations are established for characteristics of any
wastewaters to be discharged into the municipal sewer system. All significant
industrial users must comply with these limitations where they are more
stringent than applicable state and/or federal regulations.
Parameter Maximum Daily Concentration (mg/l)
Parameter            Maximum Daily Concentration (mg/l)
Arsenic
Cadmium
Chromium
Copper
Cyanide, total       (These parameters are to be determined by amendment if and
Lead                 when applicable)
Mercury
Nickel
Silver
Zinc
Total toxic organics
   (O)   The City has received authority through the U.S. EPA and State
Statutes to enforce the requirements of 40 CFR Subchapter N, 40 CFR 403, and 40
CFR Part 35. All users shall comply with the requirements of those regulations.
(Ord. 14-11, passed 11-4-14)
§ 50.062 DILUTION OF WASTEWATER DISCHARGE.
   No user shall ever increase the use of process water or, in any way, attempt
to dilute a discharge as a partial or complete substitute for adequate
treatment to achieve compliance with the limitations contained in the Federal
Categorical Pretreatment Standards, or in any pollutant specific limitation
developed by the city or state.
(Ord. 14-11, passed 11-4-14) Penalty, see §§
50.155 et seq.
§ 50.063 GREASE, OIL, AND SAND INTERCEPTORS.
   Grease, oil, and sand interceptors shall be provided when, in the opinion of
the Superintendent, they are necessary for the proper handling of liquid wastes
containing floatable grease in excessive amounts, or any flammable wastes,
sand, or other harmful ingredients; except that such interceptor shall not be
required for private living quarters or dwelling units. All interceptors shall
be of a type and capacity approved by the Superintendent and shall be located
as to be readily and easily accessible for cleaning and inspection. In the
maintaining of these interceptors the owner(s) shall be responsible for the
proper removal and disposal by appropriate means of the captured material and
shall maintain records of the dates, and means of disposal. The city may
require that hauling of the collected materials not performed by owner(s)
personnel must be performed by currently licensed waste disposal firms.
Interceptors shall also comply with applicable regulations of the Trigg County
Health Department.
(Ord. 14-11, passed 11-4-14)
§ 50.064 SPECIAL INDUSTRIAL PRETREATMENT REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Pursuant to the requirements imposed on publicly owned wastewater
treatment works by the Federal Water Pollution Control Act Amendments of 1972
and later amendments, all pretreatment standards promulgated by the U.S.
Environmental Protection Agency for new and existing industrial dischargers to
public sewer systems are hereby made a part of this chapter. Any industrial
waste discharge which violates these EPA pretreatment standards shall be in
violation of this chapter.
   (B)   Where pretreatment or flow equalizing facilities are provided or
required for any waters or wastes, the industry shall be solely responsible for
the continued maintenance in satisfactory and effective operation of such
facilities at their own expense. The city may agree to assume these
responsibilities if proper and appropriate arrangement for reimbursement of
costs are made.
   (C)   Any person who transports septic tank, seepage pit or cesspool
contents, liquid industrial waste or other batch liquid waste and wishes to
discharge such waste to the public sewer system shall first have a valid
discharge permit. All applicants for a discharge permit shall complete the
application form, pay the appropriate fee, and receive a copy of the city’s
regulations governing discharge to sewers of liquid wastes from trucks. All
persons receiving such permits shall agree, in writing, to abide by all
applicable provisions of this chapter, and any other special provisions that
may be established by the city as necessary for the proper operation and
maintenance of the sewerage system.
      (1)   In addition any person holding a valid permit and wishing to
discharge to the wastewater treatment plant must submit to the Chief Operator a
sample of each load prior to discharge. A fee and payment schedule shall be
established in the permit to cover cost of the required analysis.
      (2)   It shall be illegal to discharge any batch liquid waste into any
manhole or other part of the public sewer system, or any building sewer or
other facility that discharges to the public sewer system, except at designated
points of discharge specified by the city for such purpose.
      (3)   Any liquid waste hauler illegally discharging to the public sewer
system or discharging wastewater not authorized in the permit shall be subject
to immediate revocation of discharge privileges and further subject to the
penalties and enforcement actions prescribed in §§
50.155 through
50.163 including fines and imprisonment.
      (4)   Waste haulers who have been granted permission to discharge to the
public sewer system shall pay fees for such discharge in accordance with a fee
schedule established by the Superintendent and approved by the city and/or a
mutual agreement for discharge has been established between the hauler and city
officials.
      (5)   Nothing in this chapter shall relieve waste haulers of the
responsibility for compliance with county health department, state, or federal
regulations.
(Ord. 14-11, passed 11-4-14)
§ 50.065 PROTECTION FROM ACCIDENTAL AND SLUG DISCHARGES.
   (A)   (1)   Each significant industrial user shall provide protection from
accidental and/or slug discharges of prohibited materials or other substances
regulated by this chapter which adversely affects the POTW. Facilities to
prevent accidental and/or slug discharges of prohibited materials shall be
provided and maintained at the owner or user’s own cost and expense. Once every
two years, the Superintendent will determine whether each industrial user needs
to develop or update a plan to control slug discharges. If the Superintendent
determines that a slug control plan or revision is necessary, the plan shall
contain the following:
         (a)   Description of discharge practices;
         (b)   Description of stored chemicals;
         (c)   Procedures for notifying the POTW;
         (d)   Prevention procedures for spills.
      (2)   In the case of all possible or actual accidental and/or slug
discharges, it is the responsibility of the user to immediately telephone and
notify the POTW of the incident. The notification shall include location of
discharge, type of waste, concentration and volume, and corrective actions.
   (B)   Written notice. Within five days following an accidental discharge,
the user shall submit to the Superintendent a detailed written report
describing the cause of the discharge and the measures to be taken by the user
to prevent similar future occurrences. Such notification shall not relieve the
user of any expense, loss, damage, or other liability which may be incurred as
a result of damage to the POTW, fish kills, or any other damage to person or
property; nor shall such notification relieve the user of any fines, civil
penalties, or other liability which may be imposed by this subchapter, the
enforcement response plan or other applicable law.
   (C)   Notice to employees. A notice shall be permanently posted on the
user’s bulletin board or other prominent place advising employees whom to call
in the event of a dangerous discharge. Employers shall ensure that all
employees who may cause or suffer such a dangerous discharge to occur are
advised of the emergency notification procedure.
(Ord. 14-11, passed 11-4-14)
§ 50.066 STATE REQUIREMENTS.
   State requirements and limitations on discharges shall apply in any case
where they are more stringent than Federal requirements and limitations or
those in this chapter.
(Ord. 14-11, passed 11-4-14)
§ 50.067 CITY’S RIGHT OF REVISION.
   The city reserves the right to establish more stringent limitations, or
requirements on discharges to the POTW if deemed necessary to comply with the
objectives presented in this chapter.
(Ord. 14-11, passed 11-4-14)
§ 50.068 FEDERAL CATEGORICAL PRETREATMENT STANDARDS.
   Upon the promulgation of Federal Categorical Pretreatment Standards for a
particular industrial subcategory, the Federal Standard, if more stringent than
limitations imposed under this chapter for sources in that subcategory, shall
immediately supersede the limitations imposed under this chapter.
(Ord. 14-11, passed 11-4-14)
PRETREATMENT PROGRAM ADMINISTRATION
§ 50.080 WASTEWATER DISCHARGES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to discharge to the POTW any wastewater except as
authorized by the city in accordance with the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   Any agency, nondomestic user, and/or industry outside the jurisdiction
of the city that desires to contribute wastewater to the POTW must execute
(through an authorized representative) an interjurisdictional agreement,
whereby the agency and/or industry agrees to be regulated by all provisions of
this chapter and state and federal regulations. An industrial user permit may
then be issued by the Superintendent in accordance with §
50.081.
(Ord. 14-11, passed 11-4-14) Penalty, see §§
50.155 et seq.
§ 50.081 INDUSTRIAL USER DISCHARGE PERMITS.
   (A)   General. All significant industrial users proposing to connect to or
to contribute to the POTW shall obtain an Industrial User Permit before
connecting to or contributing to the POTW.
   (B)   Permit application. Users required to obtain an industrial user permit
shall complete and file with the city, an application in the form prescribed by
the city, and accompanied by a permit fee. New users shall apply at least 90
days prior to connecting to or contributing to the POTW. Existing permit holder
shall apply no later than 60 days prior to expiration of permit. In support of
the application, the user shall submit, in units and terms appropriate for
evaluation, the following information:
      (1)   Name, address, and location if different from the address;
      (2)   SIC number(s) according to the Standard Industrial Classification
Manual, United States Bureau of the Budget, 1972, as amended;
      (3)   Wastewater constituents and characteristics as determined by an
analytical laboratory acceptable to the city; sampling and analysis shall be
performed in accordance with procedures established by the EPA pursuant to §
304(g) of the Act and contained in 40 C.F.R. Part 136, as amended;
      (4)   Time and duration of contribution;
      (5)   Average daily and 30 minute peak wastewater flow rates, including
daily, monthly and seasonal variations if any;
      (6)   Site plans, floor plans, mechanical and plumbing plans and details
to show all sewers, sewer connections, and appurtenances by the size, location
and elevation;
      (7)   Description of activities, facilities, and plant processes on the
premises including all materials which are or could be discharged;
      (8)   Where known, the nature and concentration of any pollutants in the
discharge which are limited by the city, state or federal pretreatment
standards, and a statement regarding whether or not the pretreatment standards
are being met on a consistent basis and if not, whether additional pretreatment
is required for the user to meet applicable pretreatment standards;
      (9)   If additional pretreatment will be required to meet the
pretreatment standards, the shortest schedule by which the user will provide
such additional pretreatment. The completion date in this schedule shall not be
later than the compliance date established for the applicable pretreatment
standards. The following conditions shall apply to this schedule:
         (a)   The schedule must be acceptable to the city.
         (b)   The schedule shall contain increments of progress in the form of
dates for the commencement and completion of major events leading to the
construction and operation of additional pretreatment required for the user to
meet the applicable pretreatment standards.
         (c)   Not later than 14 days following each date in the schedule and
the final date for compliance, the user shall submit a progress report to the
Superintendent including, as a minimum, whether or not it complied with the
increment of progress to be met on such date and, if not, the date on which it
expects to comply with this increment of progress and the reason for delay, and
the steps being taken by the user to return the construction to the schedule
established.
      (10)    Each product produced by type, amount, process or processes, and
the rate of production;
      (11)   Type and amount of raw materials processed (average and maximum
per day);
      (12)   Number of employees, and hours of operation of plant and proposed
or actual hours of operation of pretreatment system;
      (13)   Any other information as may be deemed by the city to be necessary
to evaluate the permit application;
      (14)   A copy of the industry’s written environmental control program,
comparable document, or policy.
   (C)   Issuance. The city shall evaluate the data furnished by the user and
may require additional information. After evaluation and acceptance of the data
furnished, the City Engineer or his or her designee may issue an industrial
wastewater discharge permit subject to terms and conditions provided herein.
(Ord. 14-11, passed 11-4-14)
§ 50.082 PERMIT MODIFICATIONS.
   Within nine months of the promulgation of a National Categorical
Pretreatment Standards, the industrial wastewater discharge permit of users
subject to such standards shall be revised to require compliance with such
standards within the time frame prescribed by such standards. Where a user,
subject to National Categorical Pretreatment Standards, has not previously
submitted an application for an industrial wastewater discharge permit as
required, the user shall apply for an industrial wastewater discharge permit
within 90 days after the promulgation of the applicable National Categorical
Pretreatment Standards. In addition, the user with an existing industrial
wastewater discharge permit shall submit, to the City Engineer within 90 days
after the promulgation of an applicable Federal Categorical Pretreatment
Standard, the information required by this chapter.
(Ord. 14-11, passed 11-4-14)
§ 50.083 PERMIT CONDITIONS.
   Industrial wastewater discharge permits shall be expressly subject to all
provisions of this chapter and all other applicable regulations, user charges
and fees established by the city. Permits may contain the following:
   (A)   The unit surcharges or schedule of other charges and fees for the
wastewater to be discharged to a community sewer;
   (B)   Limits on the average and/or maximum wastewater constituents and
characteristics;
   (C)   Limits on the average and/or maximum rate and time of discharge or
requirements for flow regulations and equalization;
   (D)   Requirements for installation and maintenance of inspection and
sampling facilities;
   (E)   Specifications for monitoring programs which may include sampling
location; frequency of sampling; number, type and standards for tests; and
reporting schedule;
   (F)   Compliance schedules;
   (G)   Requirements for submission of technical reports or discharge reports;
   (H)   Requirements for maintaining and retaining, for a minimum of three
years, all plant records relating to pretreatment and/ or wastewater discharge
as specified by the city, and affording city access thereto as required by 40
C.F.R. 403.12(o)(2);
   (I)   Requirements for notification of the city of any new introduction of
wastewater constituents or any substantial change in the volume or character of
the wastewater constituents being introduced into the wastewater treatment
system;
   (J)   Requirements for notification of slug discharges;
   (K)   The permit may require the user to reimburse the city for all expenses
related to monitoring, sampling and testing performed at the direction of the
City Engineer and deemed necessary by the city to verify that the user is in
compliance with the permit;
   (L)   Other conditions as deemed appropriate by the city to ensure
compliance with this chapter.
(Ord. 14-11, passed 11-4-14)
§ 50.084 ALTERNATIVE DISCHARGE LIMITS.
   (A)   Where an effluent from a categorical industrial process(es) is mixed
prior to treatment with wastewater other than that generated by the regulated
process, fixed alternative discharge limits may be derived for the discharge
permit by the Superintendent. These alternative limits shall be applied to the
mixed effluent and shall be calculated using the combined wastestream formula
and/or flow-weighted average formula as defined in § 50.002.
   (B)   Where the effluent limits in a Categorical Pretreatment Standard are
expressed only in terms of mass of pollutants per unit of production
(production-based standard), the Superintendent may covert the limits to
equivalent limitations expressed either as mass of pollutant discharged per day
or of effluent concentration for purposes of calculating effluent permit
limitations applicable to the permittee. The permittee shall be subject to all
permit limits calculated in this manner under 40 C.F.R. 403.6(c) and must fully
comply with these alternative limits.
   (C)   All categorical users subject to production-based standards must
report production rates annually so that alternative permit limits can be
calculated if necessary. The categorical user must notify the Superintendent 30
days in advance of any major change in production levels that will affect the
limits for the discharge permit.
(Ord. 14-11, passed 11-4-14)
§ 50.085 PERMIT DURATION.
   Permits shall be issued for a specified time period, not to exceed five
years. A permit may be issued for a period less than a year or may be stated to
expire on a specific date. The user shall apply for permit reissuance a minimum
of 60 days prior to the expiration of the user’s existing permit. The terms and
conditions of the permit may be subject to modification by the city during the
term of the permit as limitations or requirements as identified in §§
50.060 through
50.068 are modified or other just cause exists. The user shall be informed of
any proposed changes in their permit at least 30 days prior to the effective
date of change. Any changes or new conditions in the permit shall include a
reasonable time schedule for compliance.
(Ord. 14-11, passed 11-4-14)
§ 50.086 PERMIT TRANSFER.
   Industrial user permits are issued to a specific user for a specific
operation. An industrial user permit shall not be reassigned or transferred or
sold to a new owner, new user, different premises, or a new or changed
operation without a 30 day prior notification to the Superintendent and
provision of a copy of the existing permit to the new owner. The Superintendent
may deny the transfer of the permit if it is deemed necessary.
(Ord. 14-11, passed 11-4-14)
§ 50.087 COMPLIANCE DATA REPORTING.
   Within 90 days following the date for final compliance with applicable
categorical pretreatment standards or, in the case of a new user, following
commencement of the introduction of wastewater into the POTW, any user subject
to federal categorical pretreatment standards and requirements shall submit, to
the Superintendent, a report indicating the nature and concentration of all
pollutants in the discharge from the regulated process which are limited by
categorical pretreatment standards and requirements and the average and maximum
daily flow for these process units in the user’s facility which are limited by
such categorical standards and requirements. The report shall state whether the
applicable categorical pretreatment standards and requirements are being met on
a consistent basis and, if not, what additional pretreatment and time schedule
is necessary to bring the user into compliance with the applicable categorical
pretreatment standards or requirements. This statement shall be signed by an
authorized representative of the user.
(Ord. 14-11, passed 11-4-14)
§ 50.088 PERIODIC COMPLIANCE REPORTS.
   (A)   All significant industrial users shall submit, to the Superintendent,
every six months (on dates specified in the industrial user permit) unless
required more frequently by the permit, a report indicating, at a minimum, the
nature and concentration, of pollutants in the effluent which are limited by
such pretreatment standards or discharge permit. In addition, this report shall
include a record of all daily flows which during the reporting period exceeded
the average daily flow. At the discretion of the Superintendent and in
consideration of such factors as local high or low flow rates, holidays, budget
cycles, and the like, the Superintendent may agree to alter the months during
which the above reports are to be submitted.
   (B)   All analyses shall be performed by a laboratory acceptable to the
city. Analytical procedures shall be in accordance with procedures established
by the U.S. EPA Administrator pursuant to § 304(g) of the Act and contained in
40 C.F.R. Part 136 and amendments thereto and 40 C.F.R. 261 or with any other
test procedures approved by the U.S. EPA Administrator. Sampling shall be
performed in accordance with the techniques approved by the U.S. EPA
Administrator.
   (C)   Where 40 C.F.R. Part 136 does not include a sampling or analytical
technique for the pollutant(s) in question, sampling and analysis shall be
performed in accordance with the procedures set forth in the EPA publication
Sampling and Analysis Procedures for Screening of Industrial Effluents for
Priority Pollutants, April 1977, and amendments thereto, or with any other
sampling and analytical procedures approved by the U.S. EPA Administrator.   
   (D)   A baseline monitoring report (BMR) must be submitted to the
Superintendent by all categorical industrial users at least 90 days prior to
initiation of discharge to the sanitary sewer. The BMR must contain, at a
minimum, the following:
      (1)   Production data: a process description, SIC code number, raw
materials used, chemicals used, final product, pretreatment industrial category
(if applicable), and a schematic which indicates points of discharge to the
sewer system.
      (2)   Identifying information to include name, address of facility, owner
(s), contact person and any other permits held by the facility.
      (3)   Wastewater characteristics: total plant flow, types of discharges,
average and maximum flows from each process.
      (4)   Nature/concentration of pollutants: analytical results for all
pollutants regulated by this chapter and/or any applicable federal pretreatment
standard and sample type and location. All analyses must conform with 40 C.F.R.
Part 136 and amendments thereto.
      (5)   Information concerning any pretreatment equipment used to treat the
facility’s discharge.
   (E)   New sources shall give estimates of the information requested in
divisions (D)(3) and (4) of this section, but at no time shall a new source
commence discharge(s) to the public sewer of substances that do not meet
provisions of this chapter. All new sources must be in compliance with all
provisions of this chapter, state and federal pretreatment regulations prior to
commencement of discharge to the public sewer.
(Ord. 14-11, passed 11-4-14)
§ 50.089 PERMIT VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   All significant industrial users must notify the Superintendent within
24 hours of first becoming aware of a permit violation. This notification shall
include the date of violation, the parameter violation and the amount of
excess.
   (B)   The user shall immediately repeat the sampling and analysis of the
parameters) in question and submit the results to the Superintendent within 30
days after becoming aware of the violation. Exception to this regulation is
only if the city performs the sampling within the same time period for the same
parameter(s) in question.
(Ord. 14-11, passed 11-4-14)
§ 50.090 MONITORING.
   (A)   (1)   The city shall require significant users to provide and operate,
at the user’s own expense, monitoring facilities and equipment necessary to
allow inspection, sampling, and flow measurement of the building sewer and/or
internal drainage system. The monitoring facility should normally be situated
on the user’s premises, but the city may, when such a location would be
impractical or cause undue hardship on the user, allow the facility to be
constructed in a public right-of-way. The Superintendent shall review and
approve the location, plans, and specifications for such monitoring facilities
and may require them to be constructed to provide for the separate monitoring
and sampling of industrial waste and sanitary sewage flows.
      (2)   There shall be ample room in or near such sampling manhole or
facility to allow accurate sampling and preparation of samples for analysis.
The facility shall be designed and maintained in a manner such that the safety
of city and industrial personnel shall be foremost. The facility, sampling, and
measuring equipment shall be maintained at all times in a proper operating
condition at the expense of the user.
      (3)   Whether constructed on public or private property, the sampling and
monitoring facilities shall be provided in accordance with the city’s
requirements and all applicable local construction standards and
specifications. Construction shall be completed within 90 days following
approval of the location, plans and specifications.
   (B)   All sampling analyses done in accordance with approved federal EPA
procedures by the industrial user during a reporting period shall be submitted
to the superintendent regardless of whether or not that analysis was required
by the industrial user’s discharge permit.
   (C)   The industrial user must receive the approval of the Superintendent
before changing the sampling point and/or monitoring facilities to be used in
all required sampling.
(Ord. 14-11, passed 11-4-14)
§ 50.091 INSPECTION AND SAMPLING.
   (A)   The city may inspect the facilities of any user to ascertain whether
the purpose of this chapter is being met and all requirements are being
complied with. Persons or occupants of premises where wastewater is created or
discharged shall allow the city or its representative ready access at all
reasonable times to all parts of the premises for the purposes of inspection,
sampling, copying records, records examination or in the performance of any of
its duties.
   (B)   The city, approval authority, and EPA shall have the right to set up
on the user’s property such devices as are necessary to conduct sampling,
inspection, compliance monitoring and/or metering operations. Where a user has
security measures in force which would require property identification and
clearance before entry onto their premises, the user shall make the necessary
arrangements with their security guards so that upon presentation of suitable
identification, personnel from the city, approval authority and EPA will be
permitted to enter, without delay, for the purposes of performing their
specific responsibilities.
(Ord. 14-11, passed 11-4-14)
§ 50.092 PRETREATMENT.
   All significant industrial users shall provide necessary wastewater
treatment as required to comply with this chapter and achieve compliance with
any applicable federal categorical pretreatment standards within the time
limitations as specified by the federal pretreatment regulations. The city may
require the development of a compliance schedule for installation of
pretreatment technology and/or equipment by any industrial user that cannot
meet discharge limits required by this chapter. Any facilities required to
pretreat wastewater to a level required by this chapter shall be provided,
operated, and maintained at the user’s expense. Detailed plans showing the
pretreatment facilities and operating procedures shall be submitted to the city
for review, and shall be acceptable to the city before construction of the
facility. The review of such plans and operating procedures will in no way
relieve the user from the responsibility of modifying the facility as necessary
to produce an effluent that complies with the provisions of this chapter. Any
subsequent changes in the pretreatment facilities or method of operation shall
be reported to and be acceptable to the city prior to the user’s initiation of
the changes.
(Ord. 14-11, passed 11-4-14)
§ 50.093 ANNUAL PUBLICATION.
   (A)   The city shall annually publish in its largest daily newspaper a list
of significant users which were in significant noncompliance with any
pretreatment requirements or standards. The notification shall also summarize
any enforcement actions taken against the user(s) during the same 12 months.
   (B)   All records relating to the city’s pretreatment program shall be made
available to officials of the EPA or approval authority upon request. All
records shall be maintained for a minimum of three years in accordance with 40
C.F.R. 403.12(0)(2).
(Ord. 14-11, passed 11-4-14)
§ 50.094 SIGNIFICANT NON-COMPLIANCE.
   A user is defined as being in significant noncompliance when it commits one
or more of the following conditions:
   (A)   Causes imminent endangerment to human health or the environment or
results in the exercise of emergency authority;
   (B)   Involves failure to report noncompliance accurately;
   (C)   Results in a chronic violation defined here as 66% or more of all
measurements taken during a six month period that exceed (by any magnitude) the
daily maximum limit or the monthly average limit for the same pollutant
parameter;
   (D)   Results in a technical review criteria (TRC) violation defined here as
33% or more of all measurements for each pollutant parameter taken during a six
month period that equal or exceed the product of the daily maximum limit or the
average limit multiplied by the applicable TRC (TRC = 1.4 for BOD, TSS, fats,
and oil and grease and 1.2 for all other pollutants except pH);
   (E)   Any violation of a pretreatment effluent limit that the control
authority determines has caused, along or in combination with other discharges,
interference or pass through or has endangered the health of the POTW personnel
or the public;
   (F)   Any discharge causing imminent endangerment to human health/welfare or
to the environment or resulting in the POTW’s use of its emergency authority to
halt or prevent such a discharge;
   (G)   Violations of compliance schedule milestones, failure to comply with
schedule milestones for starting or completing construction or attaining final
compliance by 90 days after the scheduled date;
   (H)   Failure to provide required reports within 30 days of the due date;
   (I)   Any violation or group of violations which the control authority
determines will adversely affect the operation or implementation of the local
pretreatment program.
(Ord. 14-11, passed 11-4-14)
§ 50.095 CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION.
   (A)   Information and data on a user obtained from reports, questionnaires,
permit applications, permits and monitoring programs and from inspections shall
be available to the public or other governmental agency without restriction
unless the user specifically requests in writing and is able to demonstrate to
the satisfaction of the city that the release of such information would divulge
information, processes, or methods of production entitled to protection as
trade secrets of the user.
   (B)   When requested by the person furnishing a report, the portions of a
report which might disclose trade secrets or secret processes shall not be made
available for inspection by the public but shall be made available to all
governmental agencies for uses related to this chapter, the NPDES/KPDES permit,
sludge disposal system permit and/or the pretreatment programs upon request.
Such portions of a report shall be available for use by the state or any state
agency in judicial review or enforcement proceedings involving the person
furnishing the report. Wastewater constituents and characteristics shall not be
recognized as confidential information and shall be available to the public
without restriction.
(Ord. 14-11, passed 11-4-14)
§ 50.096 SIGNATORY REQUIREMENTS.
   All applications, reports or information submitted to the city shall be
signed and certified.
   (A)   All permit applications shall be signed:
      (1)   For a corporation: by a principal executive officer of at least the
level of vice-president;
      (2)   For a partnership or sole proprietorship: by a general partner or
the proprietor, respectively.
   (B)   All other correspondence, reports and self-monitoring reports shall be
signed by a person described above or by a duly authorized representative of
that person. A person is a duly authorized representative only if:
      (1)   The authorization is made in writing by a person described above;
      (2)   The authorization specifies either an individual or a position
having facility or activity, such as the position of plant manager,
superintendent or position of equivalent responsibility.
   (C)   Certification. Any person signing a document under this section shall
make the following certification:
      “I certify under penalty of law that I am familiar with the information
contained in this report and its attachments and that to the best of my
knowledge and belief such information is true, complete and accurate.”
(Ord. 14-11, passed 11-4-14)
FEES
§ 50.110 PURPOSE.
   This subchapter provides for the recovery of costs from users of the POTW
for the implementation of the program established herein. The applicable
charges or fees shall be set forth in the city’s schedule of charges and fees.
(Ord. 14-11, passed 11-4-14)
§ 50.111 CHARGES AND FEES.
   (A)   The city may adopt charges and fees which may include:
      (1)   Fees for reimbursement of costs of setting up and operating the
city’s pretreatment program;
      (2)   Fees for monitoring, inspections, and surveillance procedures;
      (3)   Fees for reviewing accidental discharge procedures and
construction;
      (4)   Fees for permit applications;
      (5)   Fees for filing appeal;
      (6)   Fees for consistent removal by the POTW of excessive strength
conventional pollutants;
      (7)   Other fees as the city may deem necessary to carry out the
requirements contained herein.
   (B)   These fees relate solely to the matters covered by this chapter and
are separate from all other fees chargeable by the city.
(Ord. 14-11, passed 11-4-14)
Cross-reference:
   Minimum monthly sewer rates, see §
52.01
POWERS AND AUTHORITY OF INSPECTORS
§ 50.125 RIGHT TO ENTER PREMISES.
   The Superintendent and other duly promulgated employees and representatives
of the city and authorized representatives of applicable federal and state
regulatory agencies bearing proper credentials and identification shall be
permitted to enter all properties for the purpose of inspection, observation,
measurement, sampling, and testing pertinent to discharges to the public sewer
system in accordance with the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 14-11, passed 11-4-14)
§ 50.126 RIGHT TO OBTAIN INFORMATION REGARDING DISCHARGE.
   The Superintendent and other duly authorized employees of the city and
authorized representatives of applicable federal and state regulatory agencies
bearing proper credentials and identification are authorized to obtain
information including but not limited to copying of records concerning
character, strength and quantity of industrial wastes which have a direct
bearing on the kind and source of discharge to the wastewater collection
system.
(Ord. 14-11, passed 11-4-14)
§ 50.127 ACCESS TO EASEMENTS.
   Duly authorized employees and representatives of the city bearing proper
credentials and identification shall be permitted to enter all private
properties through which the city holds a duly negotiated easement for the
purpose of, but no limited to, construction, inspection, observation,
measurement, sampling, repair, and maintenance of any portions of the
wastewater facilities lying within said easement. All entry and subsequent
work, if any on said easement shall be done in full accordance with the terms
of the duly negotiated easement pertaining to the private property involved.
(Ord. 14-11, passed 11-4-14)
ENFORCEMENT
§ 50.140 GENERAL.
   (A)   The city, through the Superintendent or his or her designee, to ensure
compliance with this chapter, and as permitted through 40 C.F.R. Subchapter N,
and 401 KAR 5:055, may take the following enforcement steps against users in
noncompliance with the ordinance, The remedies available to the POTW include
injunctive relief, civil and criminal penalties, immediate discontinuance of
discharges and/or water service and the publishing of the list of significant
violators annually. The enforcement authority shall be vested in the
Superintendent or their designee.
   (B)   The Superintendent may suspend the wastewater treatment service and/or
an industrial user permit when such suspension is necessary, in the opinion of
the city, in order to stop an actual or threatened discharge which presents or
may present an imminent or substantial endangerment to the health or welfare of
persons, to the environment, causes interference to the POTW or causes the city
to violate any condition of its NPDES/KPDES permit.
   (C)   Any user notified of a suspension of the wastewater treatment service
and/or the industrial user permit shall immediately stop or eliminate the
contribution. In the event of a failure of the person to comply voluntarily
with the suspension order, the city may take such steps as deemed necessary
including immediate severance of the sewer connection, to prevent or minimize
damage to the POTW system or endangerment to any individuals. The city shall
reinstate the industrial user permit and/or the wastewater treatment service
upon proof of the elimination of the non-complying discharge. A detailed
written statement submitted by the user describing the causes of the harmful
contribution and the measures taken to prevent any future occurrence shall be
submitted to the city within 15 days of the date of occurrence.
(Ord. 14-11, passed 11-4-14)
§ 50.141 NOTICE OF VIOLATION.
   (A)   Any user found to be violating any provisions of this chapter,
wastewater permit, or any order issued hereunder, shall be served by the city
with written notice stating the nature of the violation(s). Within ten days of
the receipt date of this notice, an explanation of the violation and a plan for
the satisfactory correction and prevention thereof, to include specific
required actions, shall be submitted to the Superintendent. Submission of this
plan in no way relieves the user of potential liability for any violation
occurring before or after receipt of the notice of violation.
   (B)   If the violations persist or the explanation and/or plan are not
adequate, the city’s response shall be more formal and commitments (or
schedules as appropriate) for compliance will be established in an enforceable
document. The enforcement response selected will be related to the seriousness
of the violation. Enforcement responses will be escalated if compliance is not
achieved expeditiously after the initial action. A significant noncompliance as
defined in §
50.094, will require a formal enforcement action.
   (C)   The full scale of enforcement actions will be as detailed in the
enforcement response plan.
(Ord. 14-11, passed 11-4-14)
§ 50.142 ADMINISTRATIVE ORDERS.
   Any user who after receiving a notice of violation shall continue to
discharge in violation of this chapter or other pretreatment standards or
requirements or is determined to be a chronic or persistent violator or who is
determined to be a significant violator, shall be ordered to appear before the
city. At the appearance, a compliance schedule will be given to the non-
conforming user and an administrative fine assessed The fine shall be
determined on a case-by-case basis which shall consider the type and severity
of violations, duration of violation, number of violations, severity of impact
on the POTW, impact on human health, users economic benefit from the violation,
history of violations, good faith of the user, and shall be a non-arbitrary but
appropriate amount. The administrative order may take any of the following
three forms:
   (A)   Consent orders. The Superintendent or their designee is hereby
empowered to enter into consent orders, assurances of voluntary compliance, or
other similar documents establishing an agreement with the user responsible for
the noncompliance. Such orders will include specific action to be taken by the
user to correct the noncompliance within a time period also specified by the
order. Consent orders shall have the same force and effect as orders issued
pursuant to §
50.157(C).
   (B)   Compliance order. When the Superintendent or their designee finds that
an user has violated or continues to violate the ordinance or a permit or order
issued thereunder, he or she may issue an order to the user responsible for the
discharge directing that, following a specific time period, sewer service shall
be discontinued unless adequate treatment facilities, devices, or other related
appurtenances have been installed and are properly operated. Orders may also
contain such other requirements as might be reasonably necessary and
appropriate to address the noncompliance, including the installation of
pretreatment technology, additional self-monitoring and management practices.
   (C)   Cease and desist orders. When the Superintendent finds that a user has
violated or continues to violate this chapter or any permit or order issued
hereunder, the Superintendent may issue an order to cease and desist all such
violations and direct those persons in noncompliance to: a) comply forthwith,
or b) take such appropriate remedial or preventative action as may be needed to
properly address a continuing or threatened violation, including halting
operations and terminating the discharge.
(Ord. 14-11, passed 11-4-14)
§ 50.143 SHOW CAUSE HEARING.
   (A)   The Superintendent or their designee may issue to any user who causes
or contributes to violations of this chapter; wastewater permit or order issued
hereunder, an order to appear and show cause why the proposed enforcement
action should not be taken. A notice shall be served on the user specifying the
time and place of the hearing to be held by the Superintendent regarding the
violation, the reasons why the action is to be taken, the proposed enforcement
action, and directing the user to show cause, before the Superintendent, why
the proposed enforcement action should not be taken. The notice of the hearing
shall be served personally or by registered or certified mail (return receipt
requested) at least ten days before the hearing. Service may be made on any
agent or officer of the industrial user. Whether or not a duly notified
industrial user or its representative appears, immediate enforcement action may
be pursued.
   (B)   The city may, itself, conduct the hearing and take the evidence, or
designate a representative to:
      (1)   Issue, in the name of the city, notices of hearings requesting the
attendance and testimony of witnesses and the production of evidence relevant
to any matter involved in such hearing.
      (2)   Take the evidence.
      (3)   Transmit a report of the evidence and hearing, including
transcripts and other evidence, together with recommendations to the city for
action thereon.
   (C)   At any hearing held pursuant to this chapter, testimony taken must be
under oath and recorded stenographically. The transcript, so recorded, will be
made available to any member of the public or any party to the hearing upon
payment of the usual charges thereof.
   (D)   After the city has received the evidence, it may issue an order to the
user responsible for the discharge directing that, following a specified time
period, the sewer service be discontinued unless adequate treatment facilities,
devices, or other related appurtenances are properly operated. Further orders
and directives as are necessary and appropriate may be issued.
(Ord. 14-11, passed 11-4-14)
§ 50.144 ADDITIONAL ENFORCEMENT REMEDIES.
   (A)   Performance bonds. The Superintendent may decline to reissue a permit
to any industrial user which has failed to comply with the provisions of this
chapter or any order or previous permit issued hereunder unless such user first
files with it a satisfactory bond, payable to the POTW, in a sum not to exceed
a value determined by the Superintendent to be necessary to achieve consistent
compliance.
   (B)   Liability insurance. The Superintendent may decline to reissue a
permit to any industrial user which has failed to comply with the provisions of
this chapter or any order or pervious permit issued hereunder, unless the
industrial user first submits proof that it has obtained financial assurances
sufficient to restore or repair POTW damage caused by its discharge.
(Ord. 14-11, passed 11-4-14)
PENALTIES
§ 50.155 WRITTEN NOTICE.
   (A)   Any user found to be violating any provision of this chapter or a
wastewater permit or order issued hereunder, shall be served by the
Superintendent or their designee with written notice stating the nature of the
violation. The offender shall permanently remedy all violations upon receipt of
this notice.
   (B)   As contained in §§
50.140 through
50.144, the notice may be of several forms. Also as contained in §§
50.140 through
50.144, penalties of various forms may be levied against users for violations
of this chapter. The penalties, if levied, shall range from publication of
violators in the local newspaper to administrative fines of at least $1,000 per
day per violation.
(Ord. 14-11, passed 11-4-14)
§ 50.156 REVOCATION OF PERMIT.
   (A)   Any user violating any of the provisions of this chapter or a
wastewater permit order issued hereunder, may be subject to termination of its
authority to discharge sewage into the municipal sewer system. Such termination
may be immediate if necessary for the protection of the POTW. The user may also
have water service terminated.
   (B)   Any user who violates the following conditions of this chapter, or
applicable state or federal regulations, is subject to having his or her permit
revoked in accordance with the procedures of this chapter.
      (1)   Failure of a user to factually report the wastewater constituents
and characteristics of his or her discharge.
      (2)   Failure of the user to report significant changes in operations, or
wastewater constituents and characteristics;
      (3)   Refusal of reasonable access to the user’s premises for the purpose
of inspection or monitoring; or
      (4)   Violation of conditions of the permit.
(Ord. 14-11, passed 11-4-14)
§ 50.157 LIABILITY.
   Any user violating any of the provisions of this chapter, discharge permit
or other order issued hereunder shall become liable to the City of Cadiz for
any expense, loss or damage occasioned by the City by reason of such violation.
This civil liability is as provided by state and federal regulations.
(Ord. 14-11, passed 11-4-14)
§ 50.158 MISREPRESENTATION AND/OR FALSIFYING OF DOCUMENTS.
   Any user who knowingly and/or negligently makes any false statements,
representations or certification of any application, record, report, plan or
other document filed or required pursuant to this chapter or industrial user
discharge permit or who falsifies, tampers with or knowingly and/or negligently
renders inaccurate any monitoring device or method required under this chapter,
shall be guilty of a Class A misdemeanor and shall be punished by a fine of at
least $500 or by imprisonment for not more than 12 months or by both.
(Ord. 14-11, passed 11-4-14)
§ 50.159 DESTRUCTION OF POTW AND LEGAL ACTION.
   No person(s) shall maliciously, willfully, or negligently break, damage,
destroy, uncover, deface, or tamper with any structure, appurtenance or
equipment which is part of the POTW. Any person(s) violating this provision
shall be subject to immediate arrest under charge of disorderly conduct. It
shall be noted that the Clean Water Act does not require proof of specific
intent to obtain conviction.
(Ord. 14-11, passed 11-4-14)
§ 50.160 LEGAL ACTION.
   If any person discharges sewage, industrial wastes or other wastes into the
city’s wastewater disposal system contrary to the provisions of this chapter,
federal or state pretreatment requirements or any order of the city, the city
may commence an action for appropriate legal and/or equitable relief in the
appropriate court of this jurisdiction, and the city shall be entitled to
recover all costs of the legal action, including attorney’s fees, from the
offending party.
(Ord. 14-11, passed 11-4-14)
§ 50.161 INJUNCTIVE RELIEF.
   Whenever a user has violated or continues to violate the provisions of this
chapter or permit or order issued hereunder, the Superintendent, through
counsel may petition the Court for the issuance of a preliminary or permanent
injunction or both (as may be appropriate) which restrains or compels the
activities on the part of the industrial user.
(Ord. 14-11, passed 11-4-14)
§ 50.162 CIVIL PENALTIES.
   (A)   Any user who has significantly violated or continues to violate this
chapter or any order or permit issued hereunder, may be liable to the
Superintendent for a civil penalty of not more than $100 per day plus actual
damages incurred by the POTW per violation per day for as long as the violation
continues. Each day in which such violation shall continue shall be deemed a
separate offense. In addition to the above described penalty and damages, the
Superintendent may recover reasonable attorney’s fees, court costs, court
reporter’s fees, and other expenses associated with the enforcement activities,
including sampling and monitoring expenses.
   (B)   The Superintendent may petition the court to impose, assess and
recover such sums. In determining amount of liability, the court shall take
into account all relevant circumstances, including, but not limited to, the
extent of harm caused by the violation, the magnitude and duration any economic
benefit gained through the user’s violation, corrective actions by the user,
the compliance history of the user, and any other factor as justice requires.
(Ord. 14-11, passed 11-4-14)
§ 50.163 CRIMINAL PROSECUTION.
   (A)   Negligent violations.
      (1)   Any person who negligently violates any provision of this chapter
or any orders or permits issued hereunder shall, upon his first conviction, be
punished by a fine ranging from $2,500 to $25,000 per violation per day and/or
imprisonment for not more than one year.
      (2)   Any person who negligently violates any provision of this chapter
or any orders or permits issued hereunder shall, upon subsequent conviction, be
punished by a fine of $50,000 per violation per day and/or imprisonment for not
more than two years.
   (B)   Knowing violations.
      (1)   Any person who knowingly violates any provision of this chapter or
any orders or permits issued hereunder shall, upon his first conviction, be
punished by a fine ranging from $5,000 to $50,000 per violation per day and/or
imprisonment for not more than three years.
      (2)   Any person who knowingly violates any provision of this chapter or
any orders or permits issued hereunder shall, upon subsequent conviction, be
punished by a fine of $100,000 per violation per day and/or imprisonment for
not more than six years.
(Ord. 14-11, passed 11-4-14)
VALIDITY
§ 50.175 CONFLICT.
   All other ordinances and parts of other ordinances inconsistent or
conflicting with any part of this chapter are hereby repealed to the extent of
such inconsistency or conflict with any part of this chapter are hereby
repealed to the extent of such inconsistency or conflict.
(Ord. 14-11, passed 11-4-14)
CHAPTER 51: SOLID WASTE
Section
   
51.01   Definitions
   
51.02   Solid waste storage
   
51.03   Collection of solid waste
   
51.04   Transportation of hazardous waste
   
51.05   Disposal of hazardous waste
   
51.06   Permits and franchises
   
51.07   Bulky solid waste collection
   
51.08   Prohibited practices
 
   
51.99   Penalty
§ 51.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CITY. The City of Cadiz, Kentucky.
   PERSON. An individual, trust, firm, joint stock company, corporation
(including a government corporation), partnership, association, federal agency,
state agency, commission, or any interstate body.
   SOLID WASTE. Any garbage, refuse, sludge and other discarded material,
including solid, liquid, semisolid, or contained gaseous material resulting
from industrial, commercial, agricultural operations, and from community
activities, but does not include those materials including, but not limited to,
sand, soil, rock, gravel, or bridge debris extracted as part of a public road
construction project funded wholly or in part with state funds, recovered
material, special wastes as designated by KRS 224.50-760, solid or dissolved
material in domestic sewage, manure, crops, crop residue, or a combination
thereof which are placed on the soil for return to the soil as fertilizers or
soil conditions, or solid or dissolved materials in irrigation return flows or
industrial discharges which are point sources subject to permits under Section
402 of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act, as amended (86 Stat. 880), or
source, special nuclear, or by-product material as defined by the Atomic Energy
Act of 1954, as amended (68 Stat. 923).
(Ord. 754, passed 1-9-92; Am. Ord. 13-04, passed 5-7-13)
§ 51.02 SOLID WASTE STORAGE.
   Solid waste stored outside shall only be stored in containers supplied by
the city or the city’s franchisee, and the coverings of the containers, if
applicable, shall be closed at all times except when depositing or removing
solid waste.
(Ord. 754, passed 1-9-92; Am. Ord. 13-04, passed 5-7-13)
§ 51.03 COLLECTION OF SOLID WASTE.
   Collection of solid waste by the city or the city’s franchisee at least once
per week shall be mandatory for all residences, businesses, industries, and all
other locations accumulating solid waste.
(Ord. 754, passed 1-9-92; Am. Ord. 13-04, passed 5-7-13)
§ 51.04 TRANSPORTATION OF SOLID WASTE.
   All transportation vehicles shall be maintained in a safe, clean and
sanitary condition, and shall be so constructed, maintained and operated as to
prevent spillage of solid wastes therefrom. All vehicles to be used for
transportation of solid waste shall be constructed with covers which shall be
an integral part of the vehicle or shall be a separate cover of suitable
material with fasteners designed to secure all sides of the cover to the
vehicle and shall be secured whenever the vehicle is transporting solid waste,
or, as an alternate, the entire bodies thereof shall be enclosed, with only
loading hoppers exposed. No solid waste shall be transported in the loading
hoppers. They shall be cleaned as often as necessary to prevent a nuisance and
insect breeding and shall be maintained in good repair.
(Ord. 754, passed 1-9-92) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.05 DISPOSAL OF HAZARDOUS WASTE.
   All hazardous waste and special waste as defined by state or federal law
shall be disposed of only as prescribed by state or federal law.
(Ord. 754, passed 1-9-92; Am. Ord. 13-04, passed 5-7-13)
§ 51.06 PERMITS AND FRANCHISES.
   No person may engage in the business of solid waste collection unless the
person holds a franchise issued by the city authorizing the person to collect,
transport, and dispose of solid waste.
(Ord. 754, passed 1-9-92; Am. Ord. 13-04, passed 5-7-13) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.07 BULKY SOLID WASTE COLLECTION.
   On the first Monday of every month, the city shall collect solid waste that
is too bulky to be stored in the containers supplied by the city or the city’s
franchisee. Bulky solid waste to be collected by the city pursuant to this
section shall not be placed next to the street more than three days prior to
the date of collection. The city shall not be obligated to collect bulky solid
waste pursuant to this section that is dangerous to the health or safety of
city personnel, unreasonably bulky, or excessive in amount. No person shall
place more than six items of bulky solid waste next to the street to be
collected by the city. No person shall place any airtight container for
collection without first removing all doors from the containers.
(Ord. 754, passed 1-9-92; Am. Ord. 13-04, passed 5-7-13)
§ 51.08 PROHIBITED PRACTICES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to:
   (A)   Dispose of solid waste by dumping same on any premises within the city
with or without the consent of the owner of the premises;
   (B)   Place for collection by the city or the city’s franchisee any solid
waste generated or produced outside of the city;
   (C)   Permit or assist any person to place for collection by the city or the
city’s franchisee any solid waste generated or produced outside of the city;
   (D)   Fail to have solid waste collected as provided in this chapter;
   (E)   Interfere in any manner with solid waste collection and transportation
equipment, or with solid waste collectors in the lawful performance of their
duties as such, whether such equipment or collectors shall be those of the city
or the city’s franchisee;
   (F)   Burn solid waste unless an approved incinerator is provided or unless
a variance has been obtained;
   (G)   Place any dead animal for collection by the city or the city’s
franchisee;
   (H)   Own or operate a dump;
   (I)   Place any tire, paint, chemicals, or any other hazardous waste for
collection by the city or the city’s franchisee;
   (J)   Place any garbage collection rolling cart with hinged lid in public
view more than one day prior to the day of collection; or
   (K)   Permit any garbage collection rolling cart with hinged lid to remain
in public view more than one day after the day of collection.
(Ord. 754, passed 1-9-92; Am. Ord. 13-04, passed 5-7-13; Am. Ord. 17- 09,
passed 9-5-17) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Pursuant to KRS 83A.065(2), a violation of any provision of this
chapter is expressly made a violation subject to a criminal fine. Any person
violating any provision of this chapter shall be guilty of a violation and
shall be fined $250 for each offense. A separate offense shall be deemed
committed on each day during which or on which a violation occurs or continues.
   (B)   The city shall be entitled to recover all costs and reasonable
attorney’s fees incurred by the city in enforcing any provision of this
chapter.
(Ord. 754, passed 1-9-92; Am. Ord. 13-04, passed 5-7-13)
CHAPTER 52: WATER
Section
   
52.01   Rates
   
52.02   Customer processing fees
   
52.03   Billing; collection; penalty
   
52.04   Rules and regulations incorporated by reference
   
52.05   Interruption of service
   
52.06   Cross connection prevention program
§ 52.01 RATES.
   (A)   Minimum monthly rates. Minimum monthly water rates for the first 2,000
gallons or less of water per month for connection are as follows:
               Minimum monthly water rate
Size of connection         Inside city       Outside city
3/4-inch or less          $16.32       $ 21.60
1-inch                27.82       34.41
2-inch                61.69       76.27
3-inch                119.90       148.98
   (B)   Minimum monthly sewer charges. The minimum rate or charge for all
sewer customers in the city limits of the sewer system shall be $16.32. The
minimum rate or charge for all sewer residential customers outside of the city
shall be $21.60. The minimum rate or charge for all sewer commercial customers
outside of the city shall be $35.35.
   (C)   Rates based on water usage. In addition to the minimum rates set out
in division (A) above, the rates of customers of the Waterworks and Sewer
System shall be based on the water consumption of such customer, as follows:
Monthly charges per 1,000 gallons or parts thereof:
                 Water/Sewer      Water/Sewer  Sewer Rates      Sewer Rates
Amount of Water  Rates            Rates        Commercial       Commercial
Consumption each Residential      Residential  Customers Inside Customers
Month            Customers Inside Customers    City             Outside City
                 City             Outside City
                 Water/Sewer      Water/Sewer  Sewer Rates      Sewer Rates
Amount of Water  Rates            Rates        Commercial       Commercial
Consumption each Residential      Residential  Customers Inside Customers
Month            Customers Inside Customers    City             Outside City
                 City             Outside City
*First 2,000     16.32            21.60        22.25            35.35
Gallons
Next 3,000       6.00             8.16         8.20             13.35
Gallons
Next 5,000       4.71             6.87         6.42             11.23
Gallons
Next 10,000      3.42             5.58         4.68             9.14
Gallons
Next 30,000      2.94             4.78         4.01             7.84
Gallons
Next 50,000      2.34             3.52         3.22             5.76
Gallons
Next 100,000     1.87             2.51         2.55             4.19
Gallons
 
   *Minimum rate for 3/4-inch meter or less.
Monthly charges per 2,000 gallons or parts thereof:
Four inch compound water meter
Amount of Water Consumption Water/Sewer Rates      Water/Sewer Rates Commercial
each Month                  Commercial Inside City Outside City
Four inch compound water meter
Amount of Water Consumption Water/Sewer Rates      Water/Sewer Rates Commercial
each Month                  Commercial Inside City Outside City
*First 2,000 Gallons        272.58                 360.87
Next 3,000 Gallons          10.76                  17.53
Next 5,000 Gallons          8.41                   14.74
Next 10,000 Gallons         6.13                   12.00
Next 30,000 Gallons         5.26                   10.29
Next 50,000 Gallons         4.22                   7.55
Next 100,000 Gallons        3.34                   5.51
Six inch compound water meter
*First 2,000 Gallons        408.87                 541.30
Next 3,000 Gallons          10.76                  17.53
Next 5,000 Gallons          8.41                   14.74
Next 10,000 Gallons         6.13                   12.00
Next 30,000 Gallons         5.26                   10.29
Next 50,000 Gallons         4.22                   7.55
Next 100,000 Gallons        3.34                   5.51
Eight inch compound water meter
*First 2,000 Gallons        564.63                 747.51
Next 3,000 Gallons          10.76                  17.53
Next 5,000 Gallons          8.41                   14.74
Next 10,000 Gallons         6.13                   12.00
Next 30,000 Gallons         5.26                   10.29
Next 50,000 Gallons         4.22                   7.55
Next 100,000 Gallons        3.34                   5.51
 
   (D)   On April 1, 2017, there shall be an 8% increase in the rates set forth
in this section. On April 1, 2018, there shall be an additional 8% increase in
the rates set forth in this section. On April 1, 2024, and on April 1 of each
succeeding year, there shall be an additional 5% increase in the rates set
forth in this section.
   (E)   Waterworks tap fee. The waterworks tap fees and associated charges are
adopted as follows:
 
                   Water Tap Fees
Size of connection Inside city  Outside city
3/4-inch or less   $925         $975
1-inch             $1,150       725
2-inch             actual cost* actual cost*
 
   *Deposit of $1,000 required, any additional costs will be billed
(Ord. 02-91, passed 6-4-02; Am. Ord. 04-11, passed 10-14-04; Am. Ord. 05-06,
passed 9-8-05; Am. Ord. 09-11, passed 11-3-09; Am. Ord. 13-01, passed 3-5-13;
Am. Ord. 16-01, passed 3-1-16; Am. Ord. 19-04, passed 4-2-19; Am. Ord. 22-01,
passed 3-1-22; Am. Ord. 22-06, passed 6-7-22; Am. Ord. 24-01, passed 3-12-24)
§ 52.02 CUSTOMER PROCESSING FEES.
   (A)   All new customers of the city waterworks shall pay a processing fee
instead of a deposit. The processing fee shall be non-refundable. The
processing fee rates are as follows:
 
Type of customer Fee
Residential      $50
Business Owner   $100
Industrial       $250
 
   (B)   In the event a customer of the city waterworks desires to transfer
service from one location to another, and the customer has already transferred
his or her service once, a non-refundable transfer fee of $25 shall be paid by
the customer.
   (C)   The processing and transfer fees will begin to be charged on March 1,
2006.
   (D)   Any rules and regulations referenced in §
52.04 of the Cadiz Code are hereby amended in accordance with this section.
(Ord. 02-91, passed 6-4-02; Am. Ord. 04-11, passed 10-14-04; Am. Ord. 05-06,
passed 9-8-05; Am. Ord. 06-01, passed 2-7-06)
§ 52.03 BILLING; COLLECTION; PENALTY.
   The rates and charges in §
52.01 and §
52.02 shall be billed monthly on statements which shall be issued on or about
the first day of each month and all bills for such service shall be considered
due and payable 15 days after the date of issue. If a bill is not paid within
15 days after such date or issue, such bill shall be considered delinquent and
there shall be imposed a penalty on each bill not so paid, in an amount equal
to 10% of the charges other than sales tax shown on the face amount of such
delinquent bill. The city may serve a customer written notice of his or her
delinquency. The city may disconnect the water of such customer without further
notice. If water service is disconnected by the city for reason of delinquency
in the payment of any water bill, reconnection of such service shall not be
made until the owner or user pays a $50 disconnection and reconnection charge.
The $50 reconnection fee may be waived if the customer pays all charges and
penalties owed in full. If any deadline date falls on a Sunday or legal
holiday, such deadline shall not expire until the next secular day thereafter.
A charge of $2 per customer shall be charged for anyone paying without a bill
(or paying by phone with credit card). A charge of $3 shall be charged for
anyone paying with a debit or credit card. In the event a past due bill is
turned over for collection, the customer shall be responsible for all costs of
the collection, including attorney’s fees.
(Ord. 02-91, passed 6-4-02; Am. Ord. 04-11, passed 10-14-04; Am. Ord. 05-06,
passed 9-8-05; Am. Ord. 13-01, passed 3-5-13; Am. Ord. 17-07, passed 9-5-17)
§ 52.04 RULES AND REGULATIONS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE.
   The City Council has concurrently herewith enacted an ordinance adopting
rules and regulations for the operation of the municipal water works system of
the city. Such ordinance is incorporated in this chapter by reference and made
a part hereof. Copies of such rules and regulations are on file at the office
of the City Clerk, where same may be examined by any interested parties.
(Ord. 02-91, passed 6-4-02; Am. Ord. 04-11, passed 10-14-04; Am. Ord. 05-06,
passed 9-8-05; Am. Ord. 13-01, passed 3-5-13)
§ 52.05 INTERRUPTION OF SERVICE.
   The city shall have the right to disconnect unauthorized devices and
discontinue water service or any other connection with or without notice where
the city discovers, finds, or is otherwise made aware of any such installation.
The supply and pressure in the public water system may be affected by
accidents, main breaks, scheduled or unscheduled repairs, alterations,
additions, fire hydrant usage, variations in hydraulic performance, acts of
God, or other causes, and the city shall in no event be liable for any damages
or claims resulting from the interruption of water service.
(Ord. 14-01, passed 3-4-14)
§ 52.06 CROSS CONNECTION PREVENTION PROGRAM.
   (A)   Purpose and authority.
      (1)   It is the purpose of this section to establish a program to assure
that the public water supply is protected from any auxiliary water supply which
may cause contamination due to backflow or cross connections. The city
recognizes that contamination of the public water supply presents an imminent
health hazard to the residential and non-residential users of the public water
system, the threat of significant economic loss due to disrupted water service
to such residential and nonresidential water users, and potential liability to
the city.
      (2)   It is the further purpose of this section to meet the requirements
of 401 KAR 8:020 as enacted by the Kentucky Energy and Environment Cabinet.
      (3)   This section is enacted under the power vested in the city by KRS
82.082.
   (B)   Definitions.
      AUXILIARY WATER SUPPLY. Any water supply on or available to the premises
other than the city's public water supply. These auxiliary waters may include
water from any natural source such as a well, spring, river, stream or body of
water or any water or other substance of unknown or questionable quality that
may present a health or system hazard to the potable public water supply.
      BACKFLOW. The flow of water or other liquids, mixtures, or substances
into the distributing pipes of a potable supply of water from any source or
sources other than its intended source. Back siphonage is one type of backflow.
      BACKFLOW PREVENTOR. A device or means to prevent backflow. A listing of
acceptable backflow prevention assemblies and degree of hazard is available in
the Kentucky State Plumbing Law, Regulations and Code.
      CONTAMINATION. An impairment of the quality of the potable water supply
by any waste product, fluid, substance, compound or other material to a degree
which creates an actual or potential hazard to the public health through
poisoning or through the spread of disease.
      CROSS CONNECTION. Any physical connection or arrangement between two
otherwise separate piping system, one of which contains potable water and the
other being either water of unknown or questionable safety or steam, gas, or
chemicals whereby there may be flow from one system to the other, the direction
of flow depending on the pressure differential between the two systems.
      THERMAL EXPANSION TANK. A device installed on the cold water supply line
near a water heater to compensate for the expansion of water within a water
system when such water is heated.
   (C)   Requirements. The city shall provide protection to the public water
system against backflow by implementing the following requirements.
      (1)   Residential. Buildings used for habitation or occupancy shall be
considered residential buildings. No new water service connection to any
premises shall be installed or allowed to be installed by the city unless such
service connection is protected by a backflow prevention assembly. Residential
service connections shall be considered low hazard applications, and all such
connections shall have at a minimum a dual check valve backflow preventer
installed between the water meter and the residence. The city may require
additional or alternate backflow prevention assemblies if the degree of hazard
constitutes a higher level of protection for the public water system.
      (2)   Non-residential. No new water service connection to any non-
residential facility shall be installed or allowed to be installed by the city
unless such water service connection is protected by a backflow prevention
assembly. The type of protective device required shall be determined at the
time of installation of the service connection and shall be commensurate with
the degree of hazard at the point of such service connection. At a minimum the
service connection shall be installed with a dual check valve backflow
preventer. In the event activities do occur within a non-residential facility
change and creates a higher degree of hazard, then the backflow prevention
assembly shall be replaced with an assembly which provides acceptable
protection.
      (3)   Inspections. The customer's water system shall be open for
inspection at all reasonable times to authorized representatives of the city to
determine whether cross connections or other structural or sanitary hazards,
including violation of this section, exist, when such a condition becomes
known, the city shall deny or immediately discontinue service to the premises
by providing a physical break in the service line until the customer has
corrected the condition in conformance with the state and city laws relating to
plumbing, water supplies and the regulations adopted pursuant thereto. Water
service to any premises shall be discontinued if it is found that a backflow
prevention assembly required by this section has been removed, bypassed, or if
an unprotected cross connection exists on the premises. Service will not be
restored until such conditions or defects are corrected.
   (D)   Existing service connection. All existing water service connections
which do not have backflow prevention assemblies or existing water service
connections which have less than the minimum required backflow prevention
assemblies, shall, except for the inspection requirements, be excluded from the
requirements of this section so long as the city is assured that the public
water system is satisfactorily protected. However, if the city determines that
a hazard to health exists, then a backflow prevention assembly meeting the
requirements of this section may be installed on such existing service
connection. Backflow prevention assemblies shall not be installed on existing
service connections until after the property owner of such residential or
commercial property has been informed of the actual and potential hazards that
may be created as a result of such backflow assembly installation.
(Ord. 15-04, passed 5-5-15)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
Chapter
   
70.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
   
71.   TRAFFIC RULES
   
72.   PARKING REGULATIONS
   
73.   BICYCLES, MOTORCYCLES, AND TOY VEHICLES
   
74.   PARKING SCHEDULES
   
75.   GOLF CARTS AND ALL-TERRAIN VEHICLES
CHAPTER 70: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
70.01   Definitions
   
70.02   Required obedience to traffic directions
   
70.03   Powers and duties of Police Department
   
70.04   Authority for enforcement
   
70.05   Temporary regulations
Traffic-Control Devices
   
70.15   Signal legends
   
70.16   Establishment and maintenance of traffic-control devices
   
70.17   Obedience to signals
   
70.18   Interference with signals
   
70.19   Unauthorized signals or markings
   
70.20   Device to be legible and in proper position
   
70.21   Temporary disregard of devices by police officers
 
   
70.99   General penalty
§ 70.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this title the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLES. Vehicles of the Fire Department or Police
Department, vehicles of the Commonwealth Attorney's office when on official
business, and ambulances on an authorized emergency run.
   BOULEVARD. Any legally designated street at which cross traffic is required
to stop before entering or crossing such boulevard.
   BUSINESS DISTRICT. Any portion of any street between two consecutive
intersections in which 50% or more of the frontage on either side of the street
is used for business purposes.
   CROSSWALK. That portion of the roadway included within the extension of the
sidewalk across any intersection, and such other portions of the roadway
between two intersections, as may be legally designated as crossing places and
marked by stanchions, paint lines, or otherwise.
   CURB. The boundary of that portion of the street used for vehicles whether
marked by curbstones or not.
   INTERSECTION. That part of the public way embraced within the extensions of
the street lines of two or more streets which join at an angle whether or not
one such street crosses the other.
   OFFICIAL TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES. All signs, signals, warnings, directions,
markings, and devices placed or erected or maintained by authority of the Chief
of Police.
   ONE-WAY STREET. A street on which vehicles are permitted to move in one
direction only.
   OPERATOR. Every person who is in actual physical control of the guidance,
starting, and stopping of a vehicle.
   PARK. When applied to vehicles, to leave a vehicle standing, whether
occupied or not, for a period of time longer than is necessary to receive or
discharge passengers or property.
   PEDESTRIAN. Any person afoot.
   PLAY STREET. Any street or portion thereof so designated by the Chief of
Police and reserved as a play area for children, from which all traffic is
barred, except vehicles to and from abutting properties.
   POLICE DEPARTMENT. The Police Department or other persons or agency
authorized to perform the duties of § 70.03 or any other acts necessary to
implement and enforce this traffic code.
   PUBLIC WAY. The entire width between property lines of every way, dedicated
passway, or street set aside for public travel, except bridle paths and foot
paths.
   REVERSE TURN. To turn a vehicle on any street in such a manner as to proceed
in the opposite direction.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY. The privilege of the immediate and preferential use of the
street.
   ROADWAY. That portion of any street, improved, designated, or ordinarily
used for vehicular travel.
   SIDEWALK. That portion of the street between the curb and the property line
intended for the use of pedestrians.
   STOPPING. As applied to vehicles, to stop a vehicle longer than is actually
necessary to receive or discharge passengers.
   STREET. Every public way, including alleys.
   TRAFFIC. Pedestrians, ridden or herded animals, vehicles, buses, and other
conveyances, individually or collectively, while using any street for the
purpose of travel.
   VEHICLE. Every device in, on, or by which any person or property is or may
be transported or drawn on any street except devices moved by human power or
used exclusively on stationary rails or tracks.
§ 70.02 REQUIRED OBEDIENCE TO TRAFFIC DIRECTIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to fail or refuse to comply with
any lawful order, signal, or direction given by a uniformed police officer, or
to fail or refuse to comply with any of the traffic regulations of this traffic
code.
   (B)   The provisions of this traffic code shall apply to the driver of any
vehicle owned or used in the service of the United States government, this
state, county, or city, and it shall be unlawful for any such driver to violate
any of the provisions of this traffic code, except as otherwise permitted in
this traffic code or by state statute.
   (C)   Every person propelling any pushcart or riding a bicycle or an animal
on any roadway, and every person driving any animal on any roadway, and every
person driving any animal-drawn vehicle shall be subject to the provisions of
this traffic code applicable to the driver of any vehicle, except those
provisions of this traffic code which by their very nature can have no
application.
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 70.03 POWERS AND DUTIES OF POLICE DEPARTMENT.
   It shall be the duty of the Police Department to direct all traffic in
conformance with this traffic code and to enforce the traffic regulations as
set forth in this traffic code, to make arrest for traffic violations, to
investigate accidents, and to cooperate with other officers of the city in the
administration of the traffic laws, and in developing ways and means to improve
traffic conditions.
§ 70.04 AUTHORITY FOR ENFORCEMENT.
   Authority to direct and enforce all traffic regulations of this city in
accordance with the provisions of this traffic code and to make arrests for
traffic violations is given to the Police Department, and, except in case of
emergency, it shall be unlawful for any other person to direct or attempt to
direct traffic by voice, hand, whistle, or any other signal.
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 70.05 TEMPORARY REGULATIONS.
   When required for the convenience and safety of the public and to alleviate
unusual traffic problems, the Chief of Police or other authorized city official
shall, at his discretion, have authority to impose such traffic regulations as
he may deem necessary for temporary periods not to exceed two weeks. If these
temporary regulations are necessary for a period longer than two weeks, the
City Clerk-Treasurer shall be notified in writing of the extended order.
TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES
§ 70.15 SIGNAL LEGENDS.
   Whenever traffic is regulated or controlled exclusively by a traffic-control
sign or signs exhibiting the words “Go,” “Caution,” or “Stop,” or exhibiting
different colored lights for purposes of traffic control, the following colors
only shall be used, and these terms and lights shall indicate and be obeyed as
follows:
   (A)   Green alone or “Go”: Vehicular traffic facing the signal may proceed
straight through or turn right or left unless a sign at such place prohibits
either such turn. However, vehicular traffic shall yield the right-of-way to
other vehicles and to pedestrians lawfully within the intersection at the time
such signal is exhibited.
   (B)   Steady yellow alone or “Caution” when shown following the green or
“Go” signal: Vehicular traffic facing a steady yellow signal is thereby warned
that the related green movement is being terminated or that a red indication
will be exhibited immediately thereafter when vehicular traffic shall not enter
the intersection. Vehicular traffic facing a steady yellow signal may enter and
clear the intersection.
   (C)   Red alone or double red or “Stop”: Vehicular traffic facing the signal
shall stop before entering the nearest crosswalk at an intersection or at such
other point as may be indicated by a clearly visible line, and shall remain
standing until green or “Go” is shown alone.
   (D)   Flashing red alone: Vehicular traffic facing the signal shall stop
before entering the nearest crosswalk at an intersection or at such other point
as may be indicated by a clearly visible line, and shall not again proceed
until it can do so without danger.
   (E)   Flashing amber alone: Vehicular traffic facing the signal shall reduce
its speed and proceed cautiously across the intersection controlled by such
signal.
   (F)   “Yield Right-of-Way”: Vehicular traffic facing the “Yield Right-of-
Way” sign shall bear the primary responsibility of safely entering the primary
intersecting or merging right-of-way. All traffic facing the sign shall yield
the right-of-way to all vehicles and pedestrians within such primary
intersecting or merging right-of-way. No vehicle facing a “Yield Right-of-Way”
sign shall enter the merging or intersecting right-of-way at a speed in excess
of 15 miles per hour, except that this speed limit shall not apply to vehicles
entering an expressway.
   (G)   Lane lights: When lane lights are installed over any street for the
purpose of controlling the direction of flow of traffic, vehicular traffic
shall move only in traffic lanes over which green arrows appear. However, when
flashing amber lights appear above a lane all left turns shall be made from
that lane. Where red arrows appear above such lanes, vehicles shall not move
against them. If flashing amber lights show above a lane, that lane shall be
used only for passing and for left turns unless a sign at such place prohibits
such turn.
Penalty, see § 70.99
Statutory reference:
   Traffic-control signals, see KRS 189.338
§ 70.16 ESTABLISHMENT AND MAINTENANCE OF TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES.
   The city shall establish and maintain all official traffic-control devices
necessary within the city. All traffic-control devices, including signs, shall
be employed to indicate one particular warning or regulation, shall be uniform,
and as far as possible shall be placed uniformly. All traffic-control devices
and signs shall conform to required state specifications.
§ 70.17 OBEDIENCE TO SIGNALS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the driver of any vehicle to disobey the
signal of any official traffic- control device placed in accordance with the
provisions of this traffic code or of a traffic barrier or sign erected by any
of the public departments or public utilities of the city, or any electric
signal, gate, or watchman at railroad crossings, unless otherwise directed by a
police officer. However, the type and the right to or necessity for such
barrier or sign must be approved by the city.
   (B)   Such sign, signal, marking, or barrier shall have the same authority
as the personal direction of a police officer.
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 70.18 INTERFERENCE WITH SIGNALS.
   No person shall without authority attempt to or in fact alter, deface,
injure, knock down, or remove any official control device or any railroad sign
or signal, or any inscription, shield, or insignia thereon, or any part
thereof.
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 70.19 UNAUTHORIZED SIGNALS OR MARKINGS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, maintain, or display on
or in view of any street any unauthorized sign, signal, marking, or device
which purports to be or is an imitation of or resembles an official traffic
device or railroad sign or signal which attempts or purports to direct the
movement of traffic, or which conceals or hides from view or interferes with
the effectiveness of any official control device or any railroad sign or
signal. No person shall place or maintain, nor shall any public authority
permit on any street, any traffic sign or signal any commercial advertising.
Nothing in this section shall be construed as restricting any public department
or public utility of the city in any emergency or temporarily from marking or
erecting any traffic barrier or sign whose placing has been approved by the
city.
   (B)   Every such prohibited sign, signal, or marking is declared to be a
public nuisance and the city is empowered forthwith to remove it or cause it to
be removed.
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 70.20 DEVICE TO BE LEGIBLE AND IN PROPER POSITION.
   No provision of this traffic code for which signs or any other traffic-
control device is required shall be enforceable against an alleged violator if
at the time and place of the alleged violation the required device was not in
proper position and sufficiently legible to be seen by an ordinarily observant
person.
§ 70.21 TEMPORARY DISREGARD OF DEVICES BY POLICE OFFICERS.
   In an emergency any police officer may at his discretion disregard traffic-
control lights or signals or established regulations in order to facilitate the
movement of traffic.
§ 70.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   Any person who violates any provision of this traffic code where no other
penalty is specifically provided shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be
fined not less than $20 nor more than $500.
CHAPTER 71: TRAFFIC RULES
Section
Operation Generally
   
71.01   Obstructing traffic
   
71.02   Reverse or U turns
   
71.03   Backing vehicles
   
71.04   Vehicles crossing sidewalks
Accidents
   
71.15   Duty of operator
   
71.16   Accident report
Prohibitions
   
71.25   Operator of vehicle to drive carefully
   
71.26   Right-of-way of emergency vehicles; following emergency vehicles;
driving over fire hose
   
71.27   Smoke emission or other nuisance
Parades and Special Events
   
71.40   Definitions
   
71.41   Permit required; exceptions
   
71.42   Application for permit
   
71.43   Contents of permit application
   
71.44   Standards for issuance of permit
   
71.45   Notice of receipt of application and issuance of permit
   
71.46   Notice of rejection or approval of application for permit; appeal
   
71.47   Alternative permit
   
71.48   Revocation of permit
   
71.49   Duties of the permittee; possession of permit
   
71.50   Public conduct during parades
   
71.51   Performance bond and rental fees
   
71.52   Insurance, hold harmless agreement, and security plan required
   
71.53   Notices
   
71.54   Sanitation and clean-up
   
71.55   Other permits required
   
71.56   Enforcing office; powers and duties
 
   
71.99   Penalty
OPERATION GENERALLY
§ 71.01 OBSTRUCTING TRAFFIC.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to operate any vehicle or permit it to remain
standing in any street in such manner as to create an obstruction thereof.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to enter any
intersection or crosswalk unless there is sufficient space on the other side of
the intersection or crosswalk to accommodate the vehicle without obstructing
the passage of other vehicles or pedestrians, notwithstanding the indication of
any traffic-control signal which may be located at the intersection or
crosswalk.
   (C)   Any intersection deemed by the city to be of special or critical
importance to the movement of traffic shall be marked in a distinctive manner
in order to indicate its importance. Should the operator of any vehicle enter
any intersection so marked when there is insufficient room on the other side of
the intersection to accommodate the vehicle, the indication of any traffic-
control signal notwithstanding, he shall be deemed to have violated this
division rather than division (B) above.
Penalty, see § 71.99
§ 71.02 REVERSE OR U TURNS.
   The operator of any vehicle shall not turn such vehicle so as to proceed in
the opposite direction unless such movement can be made in safety without
interfering with other traffic.
(KRS 189.330(8))
Penalty, see § 71.99
§ 71.03 BACKING VEHICLES.
   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to back the vehicle at
any intersection for the purpose of executing a turning movement. A vehicle
from any parking position shall be backed by the operator in such manner as to
proceed on the same side of the roadway in the lawful direction of travel.
Penalty, see § 71.99
§ 71.04 VEHICLES CROSSING SIDEWALKS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to drive within
any sidewalk space except at a permanent or temporary driveway or by special
permit from the Chief of Police or other authorized city official.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to drive the
vehicle out of any alley, driveway, building, or lot and across a sidewalk, or
its extension across the alley, unless the vehicle has been brought to a
complete stop immediately prior to crossing the sidewalk or its extension. On
entering the roadway from the alley, driveway, or building the operator shall
yield the right-of-way to all vehicles approaching on the roadway. The operator
of any vehicle intending to cross a sidewalk and turn into an alley from the
roadway may do so at low speed and with caution.
Penalty, see § 71.99
ACCIDENTS
§ 71.15 DUTY OF OPERATOR.
   It shall be the duty of the owner of, operator of, or passenger in any motor
vehicle which is involved in an accident in which any person is injured or
property damaged to stop immediately and ascertain the extent of the injury or
damage and render such assistance as may be needed.
Penalty, see § 71.99
Statutory reference:
   Duty in case of accident, see KRS 189.580
§ 71.16 ACCIDENT REPORT.
   The operator, owner, or passenger involved in an accident resulting in the
injury or death of any person, or an accident in which property is damaged,
shall immediately report the accident or property damage to the Police
Department.
Penalty, see § 71.99
PROHIBITIONS
§ 71.25 OPERATOR OF VEHICLE TO DRIVE CAREFULLY.
   (A)   The operator of any vehicle upon a highway shall operate the vehicle
in a careful manner, with regard for the safety and convenience of pedestrians
and other vehicles upon the highway.
   (B)   A person shall not willfully operate any vehicle on any highway in
such a manner as to injure the highway.
   (C)   A person shall not willfully operate any vehicle on any highway in
such a manner as to injure vehicles or equipment located in or near a highway
work zone.
   (D)   A person shall not operate any vehicle in a reckless or negligent
manner as to endanger persons or property in or near a highway, or in or near a
highway work zone.
   (E)   In addition to any other penalty, an operator who violates division
(C) or (D) of this section shall be subject to revocation of his or her
operator's license under KRS 186.560.
(KRS 189.290) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.26 RIGHT-OF-WAY OF EMERGENCY VEHICLES; FOLLOWING EMERGENCY VEHICLES;
DRIVING OVER FIRE HOSE.
   (A)   Upon the approach of an emergency vehicle equipped with, and
operating, one or more flashing, rotating, or oscillating red or blue lights
visible under normal conditions from a distance of 500 feet to the front of the
emergency vehicle; or when the driver is giving audible signal by siren,
exhaust whistle, or bell, the driver of every other vehicle shall yield the
right-of-way, immediately drive to a position parallel to, and as close as
possible to, the edge or curb of the highway clear of any intersection, and
stop and remain stopped until the emergency vehicle has passed, except when
otherwise directed by a police officer or firefighter.
   (B)   Upon the approach of any emergency vehicle operated in conformity with
the provisions of division (A) above, the operator of every vehicle shall
immediately stop clear of any intersection and shall remain stopped until the
emergency vehicle has passed, unless directed otherwise by a police officer or
firefighter.
   (C)   No operator of any vehicle, unless he or she is on official business,
shall follow any emergency vehicle being operated in conformity with the
provisions of division (A) above closer than 500 feet, nor shall he or she
drive into, park the vehicle into, or park the vehicle within the block where
the vehicle has stopped in answer to an emergency call or alarm, unless he or
she is directed otherwise by a police officer or firefighter.
   (D)   No vehicle, train, or other equipment shall be driven over any
unprotected hose of a fire department when the hose is laid down on any street,
private driveway, or track for use at any fire alarm unless the fire department
official in command consents that the hose be driven over.
   (E)   The provisions of division (F) of this section shall apply to any
driver approaching a stationary:
      (1)   Emergency vehicle or public safety vehicle, when the emergency
vehicle or public safety vehicle is giving a signal by displaying alternately
flashing yellow, red, red and white, red and blue, or blue lights; or
      (2)   Disabled vehicle, when the disabled vehicle is displaying some type
of warning signal, such as emergency flashers, flares, or retroreflective
signals.
   (F)   The driver of a vehicle that is approaching a vehicle described in
division (E) of this section shall, while proceeding with due caution:
      (1)   Yield the right-of-way by moving to a lane not adjacent to that of
the vehicle, if:
         (a)   The person is driving on a highway having at least four lanes,
with at least two lanes proceeding in the same direction as the approaching
vehicle; and
         (b)   It is possible to make the lane change with due regard to safety
and traffic conditions; or
      (2)   Reduce the speed of the vehicle, maintaining a safe speed to road
conditions, if the road has less than four lanes or if changing lanes would be
impossible or unsafe.
   (G)   This section does not operate to relieve the person who drives an
emergency vehicle from the duty to operate the vehicle with due regard for the
safety of all persons using the highway.
(KRS 189.930) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.27 SMOKE EMISSION OR OTHER NUISANCE.
   Every vehicle when on a highway shall be so equipped as to make a minimum of
noise, smoke, or other nuisance, to protect the rights of other traffic, and to
promote the public safety.
(KRS 189.020)
Penalty, see § 71.99
PARADES AND SPECIAL EVENTS
§ 71.40 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CHIEF OF POLICE. The Chief of Police of the City of Cadiz, Kentucky.
   PARADE. Any parade, march, ceremony, show, exhibition, pageant or procession
of any kind, or any similar display, consisting of persons, animals or vehicles
or a combination thereof, in or upon any street, sidewalk, park or other public
place in the city with an intent of attracting public attention that interferes
with the normal flow or regulation of traffic upon the streets, parks or other
public grounds.
   PARADE PERMIT or SPECIAL EVENT PERMIT. A permit required by this subchapter.
   SPECIAL EVENT. Any activity which occurs upon private or public property
that will affect the ordinary use of the public property, public streets,
rights-of-way or sidewalks. This includes, but is not limited to fairs,
festivals, foot runs, bicycle runs and block parties. Private social gatherings
which will not require the use of city streets other than for lawful parking
are not included.
(Ord. 762, passed 3-2-93; Am. Ord. 15-07, passed 7-7-15)
§ 71.41 PERMIT REQUIRED; EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to stage, present, or conduct any
parade or special event without first having obtained a permit as herein
provided.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to participate in a parade or
special event for which the person knows a permit has not been granted.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person in charge of, or responsible for
the conduct of a duly licensed parade or special event to knowingly fail to
comply with any condition of the permit.
   (D)   No person shall engage in, participate in, aid, form or start any
parade or special event unless a parade or special event permit shall have been
obtained from the city.
   (E)   This chapter shall not apply to:
      (1)   Funeral processions;
      (2)   Students going to and from school classes or participating in
educational activities, provided such conduct is under the immediate direction
and supervision of the proper school authorities; and
      (3)   A governmental agency acting within the scope of its functions.
(Ord. 762, passed 3-2-93; Am. Ord. 15-07, passed 7-7-15) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.42 APPLICATION FOR PERMIT.
   A person seeking issuance of a parade or special event permit shall file an
application with the city on forms provided by the city not less than 45 days
before the date on which it is proposed to conduct the parade or special event.
The city may waive the minimum filing period and accept an application filed
within a shorter period if, after due consideration of the date, time, place
and nature of the parade or special event, the anticipated number of
participants and the city services required in connection with the parade or
special event, the city determines that the waiver will not present a hazard to
public safety.
(Ord. 762, passed 3-2-93; Am. Ord. 15-07, passed 7-7-15) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.43 CONTENTS OF PERMIT APPLICATION.
   Each parade or special event permit application shall state the following
information:
   (A)   The name, address and telephone number of the person seeking to
conduct such parade or special event.
   (B)   If the parade or special event is proposed to be conducted for, on
behalf of or by an organization, the name, address and telephone number of the
headquarters of the organization, and of the authorized and responsible heads
of such organization.
   (C)   The date when the parade or special event is to be conducted.
   (D)   Starting time and hours of operation of the parade or special event.
   (E)   Minimum speed of the parade.
   (F)   Maximum speed of the parade.
   (G)   Maximum interval of space to be maintained between the units of the
parade.
   (H)   The portions of the street (sidewalks, parks or other public places)
to be traversed that may be occupied by the parade, including the starting
point and the termination point.
   (I)   The maximum length of the parade in miles or fractions thereof.
   (J)   The approximate number of persons who, and animals and vehicles which
will constitute such parade and the type of animals and description of the
vehicles.
   (K)   A statement as to whether the parade will occupy all or only a portion
of the width of the streets proposed to be traversed.
   (L)   The location by streets of any assembly areas for such parade.
   (M)   The time at which units of the parade will begin to assemble at any
such assembly area or areas.
   (N)   If the parade or special event is designed to be held by or on behalf
of any person or entity other than the applicant, the applicant for such permit
shall file a communication in writing from the person proposing to hold the
parade or special event, authorizing the applicant to apply for the permit on
his behalf.
   (O)   A detailed description of the location of the special event with a
site map showing the area of the special event.
   (P)   A description of any outdoor public property to be affected and a
description of any rights-of-way to be closed to the public.
   (Q)   A schedule of proposed events.
   (R)   A listing of vendors, if applicable.
   (S)   A description of any recording equipment, sound amplification
equipment, or other attention-getting devices to be used in connection with the
event.
   (T)   A statement whether food or alcoholic beverages will be served at the
special event.
   (U)   A statement of the approximate number of participants, a designation
of any public facilities or equipment to be used and a statement whether any
utilities such as water and electricity will be used.
   (V)   A description of any temporary facilities such as tents or banners or
signs that will be installed.
   (W)   Such other information as the city shall find necessary for the
enforcement of this subchapter.
(Ord. 15-07, passed 7-7-15)
§ 71.44 STANDARDS FOR ISSUANCE OF PERMIT.
   The city shall issue a permit as provided for hereunder when, after
consideration of the application and from such other information as may
otherwise be obtained, it finds that:
   (A)   The conduct of the parade will not substantially interrupt the safe
and orderly movement of other traffic contiguous to its route or the special
event will not disrupt traffic within the city beyond practical solution.
   (B)   The conduct of the parade will not require the diversion of so great a
number of police officers of the city to properly police the line of movement
and the areas contiguous thereto as to prevent normal police protection to the
city or that the special event will not require the diversion of so many public
employees that allowing the event would unreasonably deny service to the
remainder of the city.
   (C)   The conduct of the parade will not require the diversion of so great a
number of ambulances as to prevent normal ambulance service to portions of the
city other than that to be occupied by the proposed line of march and areas
contiguous thereto.
   (D)   The concentration of persons, animals, and vehicles at assembly points
of the parade will not unduly interfere with proper fire and police protection
of, or ambulance service to, areas contiguous to such assembly areas.
   (E)   The conduct of the parade or special event will not interfere with the
movement of fire-fighting equipment enroute to a fire or will not interfere
with access to fire stations and fire hydrants.
   (F)   The parade is scheduled to move from its point of origin to its point
of termination expeditiously and without unreasonable delays enroute.
   (G)   The parade is not to be held for the sole purpose of advertising any
product, goods, or event, and is not designated to be held purely for private
profit.
   (H)   The location of the special event will not cause undue hardship to
adjacent businesses or residents.
   (I)   There are no other parade or special event permit applications for the
same time and location that have been or will be granted.
   (J)   There are no other parade or special event permit applications that
have been or will be granted for other locations that would reduce police
resources, in combination with the second application, to such an extent that
the welfare and safety of persons and property would be adversely affected.
   (K)   The application contains incomplete or false information or the
applicant fails to comply with the terms of this subchapter.
(Ord. 15-07, passed 7-7-15) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.45 NOTICE OF RECEIPT OF APPLICATION AND ISSUANCE OF PERMIT.
   The city shall forward the application to all appropriate city departments
and such other agencies as deemed necessary, and each department or agency
shall have 15 days to review and comment on the application. Immediately upon
the issuance of a parade or special event permit, the Office of City Clerk
shall send a copy thereof to the Fire Chief, Police Chief, Director of the
Department of Public Works, and such other agencies as deemed necessary.
(Ord. 15-07, passed 7-7-15)
§ 71.46 NOTICE OF REJECTION OR APPROVAL OF APPLICATION FOR PERMIT; APPEAL.
   (A)   If the application is denied by the city, the city shall prepare and
sign an order stating the reasons for the denial of the permit and mail it to
the applicant.
   (B)   If the permit is approved by the city, an order of approval shall be
mailed to the applicant.
   (C)   Any person aggrieved shall have the right to appeal the denial of a
parade or special event permit to the City Council. The appeal shall be
accepted within seven working days after the date of the denial notice by
filing a written notice with the Office of City Clerk. The City Council shall
act upon the appeal within seven working days after its receipt.
(Ord. 762, passed 3-2-93; Am. Ord. 15-07, passed 7-7-15)
§ 71.47 ALTERNATIVE PERMIT.
   The city, in denying an application for a parade or special event permit,
shall be empowered to authorize the conduct of the parade or special event on a
date, at a time, or over a route or location different than that named by the
applicant. An applicant desiring to accept an alternate permit shall, within
three days after notice of the action by the city, file a written notice of his
acceptance with the Office of City Clerk. An alternate parade or special event
permit shall conform to the requirements of and shall have the effect of a
parade or special event permit under this subchapter.
(Ord. 15-07, passed 7-7-15)
§ 71.48 REVOCATION OF PERMIT.
   All permits issued pursuant to this subchapter shall be temporary and do not
vest any permanent rights. Reasons for revocation of a parade or special event
permit include, but are not limited to:
   (A)   Incomplete or false information in an application;
   (B)   Failure of the applicant to comply with all terms and conditions of
the permit;
   (C)   Failure of the applicant to arrange for or adequately remit all fees,
deposits, insurance or bonds to the city;
   (D)   Disaster;
   (E)   Public calamity; or
   (F)   Any other emergency.
(Ord. 15-07, passed 7-7-15)
§ 71.49 DUTIES OF THE PERMITTEE; POSSESSION OF PERMIT.
   (A)   A permittee hereunder shall comply with all permit directions and
conditions and with all applicable laws and ordinances.
   (B)   The Parade or Special Event Chairman or other person heading or
leading such activity, shall have the parade or special event permit available
for review.
(Ord. 762, passed 3-2-93; Ord. 15-07, passed 7-7-15) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.50 PUBLIC CONDUCT DURING PARADES.
   (A)   No person shall unreasonably hamper, obstruct, impede, or interfere
with any parade or parade assembly, or with any person, vehicle or animal
participating or used in a parade.
   (B)   No driver of a vehicle (except a police car or other emergency
vehicle) shall drive between the vehicles of persons comprising a parade when
such vehicles or persons are in motion and are conspicuously designated as a
parade.
   (C)   The Chief of Police or his designee shall have the authority, when
reasonably necessary, to prohibit or restrict the parking of vehicles along a
street or public thoroughfare or part thereof constituting a part of the route
of a parade. The Chief of Police or his designee shall post signs to such
effect, and it shall be unlawful for any person to park or leave unattended any
vehicle in violation thereof. No person shall be in violation of this
subchapter for parking on a street or public thoroughfare that is unposted.
(Ord. 15-07, passed 7-7-15)
§ 71.51 PERFORMANCE BOND AND RENTAL FEES.
   If required by the city, the permittee shall remit to the city a performance
bond before the parade or special event permit is issued. The type and amount
of the performance bond shall be determined within the discretion of the city
based on information contained in the application. The purpose of the
performance bond is to pay for damages to city property and to pay the costs
incurred by the city in the cleanup of the parade or special event. Any part of
the bond not withheld by the city will be returned to the permittee within 30
business days after the event has occurred. In addition to the performance
bond, persons requesting the rental of certain city property shall be required
to comply with established rental fees.
(Ord. 15-07, passed 7-7-15)
§ 71.52 INSURANCE, HOLD HARMLESS AGREEMENT, AND SECURITY PLAN REQUIRED.
   (A)   If required by the city, the permittee shall obtain and present
evidence of comprehensive liability insurance naming the city as an additional
insured in an amount and from an insurance company satisfactory to the city.
   (B)   The permittee shall provide a hold harmless agreement in which the
permittee agrees to defend, pay, and hold harmless the city, its officers and
employees, from any and all claims for personal or property injuries or damages
arising from or in any way connected to the parade or special event.
   (C)   The permittee shall cooperate with the city's Police Department in
designing a security plan for the parade or special event that may involve the
use of city police, whether on-duty or off-duty. The decision to use city
police officers, whether on-duty or off-duty and the number of such employees
and the rank of the police officers provided shall be within the sole
discretion of the Chief of Police based on the appropriateness of the request
and the ability of the Police Department to provide staffing to fulfill the
requested service. Any off-duty use of city police officers in which the police
officer is in his police uniform or using city equipment shall require the
approval of an agreement with the Police Department and the permittee. The city
shall be reimbursed the established service costs of contracted police officers
and on-duty police officers at the portion of the established service cost set
out below. The City Clerk is authorized to determine an established service
cost for each rank of police officer and to modify those established service
costs on an annual basis to account for cost of living increases.
      (1)   Private (for profit) and post secondary education institutions
100%.
      (2)   Non-profit organization and schools located in the city 50%.
      (3)   Certain designated special events are exempt from the provisions of
this subchapter, and police services shall be continued at no cost to the
sponsoring organization so long as the request for police services and the cost
to the city are not significantly increased. Should any of these designated
special events not occur in any fiscal year or the request for police services
and the cost to the city significantly increase, as determined by the Police
Chief, this provision shall cease, and that special event shall be subject to
the provisions of this subchapter. The special events grandfathered by the
provisions of this ordinance are: Veterans Parade, Christmas Parade, and Martin
Luther King, Jr. Parade.
(Ord. 15-07, passed 7-7-15)
§ 71.53 NOTICES.
   If required by the city, the permittee shall pay the cost of publication of
two announcements in the local newspaper one and two weeks prior to the event.
Permittee shall also be required to specifically inform private property and
business owners who might be inconvenienced during the event.
(Ord. 15-07, passed 7-7-15)
§ 71.54 SANITATION AND CLEAN-UP.
   A parade or special event permit may be issued only after adequate waste
disposal facilities have been identified and obtained by permittee. Permittee
will clean the right-of-way or other public property of rubbish and debris,
returning it to its pre-event condition immediately at the conclusion of the
event. If the permittee fails to clean up such refuse, such clean up shall be
arranged by the city and the costs charged to permittee.
(Ord. 15-07, passed 7-7-15)
§ 71.55 OTHER PERMITS REQUIRED.
   Permittee shall obtain all other permits that may be required from all city
and non-city departments prior to the date of the special event.
(Ord. 15-07, passed 7-7-15)
§ 71.56 ENFORCING OFFICE; POWERS AND DUTIES.
   The Office of City Clerk is hereby charged with the enforcement of the
provisions of this subchapter and is empowered to prescribe, adopt, promulgate
and enforce rules and regulations relating to any matter pertaining to the
administration and enforcement of the provisions of this subchapter. All such
rules and regulations shall be subject to the consent and approval of the City
Council.
(Ord. 15-07, passed 7-7-15)
§ 71.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter for which no other
penalty is specifically provided shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be
fined not less than $20 nor more than $500.
   (B)   Any person who violates §
71.26 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be fined not less than $60 nor
more than $500, or be imprisoned in the county jail for not more than 30 days,
or both.
   (C)   (1)   Pursuant to KRS 83A.065(2), a violation of any provision of §§
71.40 et seq. is expressly made a misdemeanor subject to a criminal fine, a
term of imprisonment, or both. Any person violating any provision of this
subchapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be fined not less than
$100 nor more than $500, or imprisoned for not more than 30 days, or both, for
each offense. A separate offense shall be deemed committed on each day during
which or on which a violation occurs or continues.
      (2)   The city shall be entitled to recover all costs and reasonable
attorney's fees incurred by the city in enforcing any provision of this §§
71.40 et seq.
(Am. Ord. 15-07, passed 7-7-15)
CHAPTER 72: PARKING REGULATIONS
Section
Parking Generally
   
72.01   Obstructional parking; double parking
   
72.02   Manner of parking
   
72.03   Limitations of stopping and parking
   
72.04   Restrictions and prohibitions on designated streets
   
72.05   Parking restricted to allow street cleaning
   
72.06   Parking in excess of certain number of hours prohibited; towing
authorized
   
72.07   Parking on parade route
   
72.08   Parking on off-street facility
   
72.09   Owner responsibility
   
72.10   Parking in parks
   
72.11   Display of parked vehicle for sale
   
72.12   Parking with handicapped permits
Impounding
   
72.20   Impoundment of vehicles authorized; redemption
   
72.21   Reserved
   
72.22   Sale of vehicle
Snow Emergency
   
72.35   Announcement of snow emergency
   
72.36   Termination of emergency
   
72.37   Snow emergency routes
 
   
72.99   Penalty
Statutory reference:
   Revenues from fees, fines, and forfeitures related to parking, see KRS
65.120
PARKING GENERALLY
§ 72.01 OBSTRUCTIONAL PARKING; DOUBLE PARKING.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to leave any vehicle or any other
thing that may be a nuisance, obstruction, or hindrance in or on any street,
alley, or sidewalk within the city either during the day or night.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to stop or park any vehicle on the
roadway side of any other vehicle stopped or parked at the edge or curb of a
street.
Penalty, see § 72.99
§ 72.02 MANNER OF PARKING.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to stop or park
the vehicle in a manner other than with its right-hand side toward and parallel
with the curb, except that where parking is permitted on the left side of a
one-way street, the left-hand side shall be so parked, and except for
commercial loading and unloading on one-way streets.
   (B)   No vehicle shall be parked or left standing on any street unless its
two right wheels are within six inches of and parallel with the curb, except
that on one-way streets where parking is permitted on the left side the two
left wheels are to be within six inches of and parallel with the curb.
   (C)   No vehicle shall be backed to the curb on any street, except that
wagons and trucks may do so when loading and unloading provided that such
loading and unloading and delivery of property and material shall not consume
more than 30 minutes. Such backing of trucks or wagons is prohibited at all
times and on all streets in the city where any truck or wagon so backed
interferes with the use of the roadway by moving vehicles or occupies road
space within ten feet of the center line of the street.
   (D)   The city may establish diagonal parking at certain places, requiring
the parking of vehicles at a certain angle to the curb and within a certain
portion of the roadway adjacent thereto. However, diagonal parking shall not be
established where the roadway space required therefor would be within ten feet
of the center line of any street. Such diagonal parking places shall be
designated by suitable signs, and shall indicate by markings on the pavement
the required angle and the width of the roadway space within which such vehicle
shall park.
   (E)   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to so park such
vehicle that any part thereof shall extend beyond the lines marking the side or
the rear of the space assigned for one vehicle.
Penalty, see § 72.99
§ 72.03 LIMITATIONS OF STOPPING AND PARKING.
   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to stop or park such
vehicle except in a case of real emergency or in compliance with the provisions
of this traffic code or when directed by a police officer or traffic sign or
signal at any time in the following places:
   (A)   On the mainly-traveled portion of any roadway or on any other place in
the roadway where vehicles stand in any manner other than as specified in §
72.02.
   (B)   On a sidewalk.
   (C)   In front of sidewalk ramps provided for persons with disabilities.
   (D)   In front of a public or private driveway.
   (E)   Within an intersection or crosswalk, or within ten feet of any
intersection.
(Ord. passed 2-8-34)
   (F)   At any place where official signs prohibit stopping or parking. This
does not apply to police officers when operating properly identified vehicles
during the performance of their official duties.
   (G)   Within 30 feet upon the approach to any flashing beacon, stop sign, or
traffic-control signal located at the side of a roadway.
   (H)   On any controlled access highway.
   (I)   Within a highway tunnel.
   (J)   Within 15 feet of a fire hydrant.
   (K)   In an area between the roadways of a divided highway.
   (L)   No person shall move a vehicle not lawfully under his control into any
such prohibited area.
(KRS 189.450(5), (6)) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.04 RESTRICTIONS AND PROHIBITIONS ON DESIGNATED STREETS.
   (A)   The provisions of this section prohibiting the stopping and parking of
a vehicle shall apply at all times or at those times herein specified or as
indicated on official signs except when it is necessary to stop a vehicle to
avoid conflict with other traffic or in compliance with the directions of a
police officer or official traffic-control devices.
   (B)   The provisions of this section imposing a time limit on parking shall
not relieve any person from his duty to observe other and more restrictive
provisions prohibiting or limiting the stopping or parking of vehicles in
specific places or at specified times.
   (C)   When signs are erected in compliance with the provisions of division
(F) below giving notice thereof, no person shall park a vehicle at any time on
any street so marked by official signs.
   (D)   When a curb has been painted in compliance with the provisions of
division (F) below, no person shall park a vehicle at any time at or adjacent
to any curb so marked.
   (E)   When signs are erected in compliance with the provisions of division
(F) below, in each block giving notice thereof, no person shall park a vehicle
between the hours specified by official signs on any day except Sundays on any
street so marked.
   (F)   (1)   The city shall determine on what streets or portions thereof
stopping or parking shall be restricted or prohibited. Whenever under authority
of or by this traffic code or any other ordinance any parking limit is imposed
or parking is prohibited on designated streets, or parking areas are restricted
to handicapped parking, appropriate signs shall be erected giving notice
thereof. However, in lieu of erecting such signs or in conjunction therewith,
the face and top of a curb or curbs at or adjacent to which parking is
prohibited at all times may be painted a solid yellow color.
      (2)   No such regulations or restrictions shall be effective unless the
signs have been erected and are in place or the curbs are painted yellow at the
time of any alleged offense, except in the case of those parking restrictions
which by their very nature would not require such signs and markings.
   (G)   When signs are erected in compliance with division (F) above in each
block giving notice thereof, no person shall park a vehicle for a time longer
than specified on official signs any day except Sunday and on any street so
marked.
Penalty, see § 72.99
§ 72.05 PARKING RESTRICTED TO ALLOW STREET CLEANING.
   The city is authorized to designate street cleaning areas and shall provide
suitable signs and markings on the street to be cleaned, restricting parking on
that particular day. It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to
stop on any street so designated.
Penalty, see § 72.99
§ 72.06 PARKING IN EXCESS OF CERTAIN NUMBER OF HOURS PROHIBITED; TOWING
AUTHORIZED.
   It shall be unlawful for anyone to park in any one place any vehicle on any
of the public ways or streets of the city for a period of 24 hours or longer.
Any vehicle left parked in any one place on any of the public ways or streets
of the city for a period of 24 hours or longer shall be deemed abandoned, and
shall be subject to all existing regulations of the city pertaining to
abandoned motor vehicles.
Penalty, see § 72.99
Cross-reference:
   Abandoned vehicles, see
Chapter 96
§ 72.07 PARKING ON PARADE ROUTE.
   (A)   The Chief of Police or other authorized city official shall have the
authority, whenever in his judgment it is necessary, to prohibit or restrict
the parking of vehicles along a street or part thereof constituting a part of
the route of a parade or procession, to erect temporary traffic signs to that
effect, and to prohibit and prevent such parking.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to park or leave unattended any vehicle in
violation of such signs or directions.
Penalty, see § 72.99
Cross-reference:
   Parades, see §§
71.40 -
71.51
§ 72.08 PARKING ON OFF-STREET FACILITY.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the driver of a motor vehicle to park or
abandon the vehicle or drive on or otherwise trespass on another's property, or
on an area developed as an off-street parking facility, without the consent of
the owner, lessee, or person in charge of such property or facility.
   (B)   If at any time a vehicle is parked, abandoned, or otherwise trespasses
in violation of division (A) of this section, the owner, lessee, or person in
charge of the property or facility may have the unauthorized motor vehicle
removed in accordance with the provisions of §§
72.20 and
72.22.
   (C)   Every property owner or operator of an off-street parking facility
shall post signs stating thereon that the property or parking lot or facility
is privately owned and that unauthorized vehicle will be removed at the owner's
expense before exercising the authority granted in division (B).
Penalty, see § 72.99
Statutory reference:
   Removal of vehicles by owners of private parking lots; signs, see KRS
189.725
§ 72.09 OWNER RESPONSIBILITY.
   If any vehicle is found illegally parked in violation of any provisions of
this subchapter regulating stopping, standing, or parking of vehicles, and the
identity of the driver cannot be determined, the owner or person in whose name
the vehicle is registered shall be held prima facie responsible for the
violation.
Penalty, see § 72.99
§ 72.10 PARKING IN PARKS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to park any motor vehicle in or on any
section of any public park, playground, play lot, or tot lot within the city
not designed as a parking area or designed and regularly maintained as a
roadway. However, nothing contained in this section shall be construed as
prohibiting the parking of a motor vehicle parallel to a designated and
regularly maintained roadway in any such park or playground where at least two
wheels of the motor vehicle are resting on such roadway.
Penalty, see § 72.99
§ 72.11 DISPLAY OF PARKED VEHICLE FOR SALE.
   It shall be unlawful to park a motor vehicle displayed for sale or a motor
vehicle on which demonstrations are being made on any street.
Penalty, see § 72.99
§ 72.12 PARKING WITH HANDICAPPED PERMITS.
   (A)   Any other provision to the contrary notwithstanding, a motor vehicle
bearing a decal in its front windshield issued by the County Clerk pursuant to
appropriate county ordinances for handicapped persons, when operated by a
handicapped person or when transporting a handicapped person, may be parked in
a designated handicapped parking place, or when parked in a metered parking
space may be parked for two hours for no fee, or when parked where any parking
limit is imposed may be parked for two hours in excess of the parking limit.
The motor vehicle may be parked in a loading zone for that period of time
necessary to permit entrance or exit of the handicapped person to or from the
parked vehicle, but in no circumstances longer than 30 minutes.
   (B)   This section shall not permit parking in a “no stopping” or “no
parking” zone nor where parking is prohibited for the purpose of creating a
fire lane or to accommodate heavy traffic during morning, afternoon, or evening
hours, nor permit a motor vehicle to be parked in such a manner as to
constitute a traffic hazard.
Penalty, see § 72.99
IMPOUNDING
§ 72.20 IMPOUNDMENT OF VEHICLES AUTHORIZED; REDEMPTION.
   (A)   All police officers are empowered to authorize the impoundment of a
vehicle violating vehicle-related ordinances after a citation has been issued.
   (B)   A vehicle slated for impoundment will be tagged and placed under
control of the Police Department. Should a vehicle be moved without the consent
and approval of the Police Department a warrant shall be issued immediately for
the violator's arrest.
   (C)   All fines, fees, and charges must be paid in full before a release of
impoundment can be issued for the vehicle's release.
§ 72.21 RESERVED.
§ 72.22 SALE OF VEHICLE.
   (A)   (1)   Any person engaged in the business of storing or towing motor
vehicles, who has complied with the notification requirements of KRS 281.928,
shall have a lien on the motor vehicle and its contents, except as set forth in
division (B) below, for the applicable and reasonable charges assessed in
accordance with KRS 281.925 and 281.932, as long as it remains in his or her
possession.
      (2)   If, after a period of 45 days, the applicable and reasonable
charges assessed in accordance with KRS 281.925 and 281.932 have not been paid,
the motor vehicle and its contents, except as set forth in division (B) of this
section, may be sold to pay the charges after the owner and any lienholder have
been notified by certified mail at the address specified in KRS 281.928, ten
days prior to the time and place of the sale. If the proceeds of the sale of
any vehicle pursuant to this section are insufficient to satisfy accrued
charges, the sale and collection of proceeds shall not constitute a waiver or
release of responsibility for payment of unpaid charges by the owner or
responsible casualty insurer of the vehicle. A lien on a vehicle under this
division shall be subject to prior recorded liens, unless released by any
existing lienholder pursuant to this section.
      (3)   A lienholder having a prior recorded lien listed on the title
issued by the Commonwealth of Kentucky shall be notified by certified mail
within the first ten days of impoundment in accordance with KRS 281.928.
         (b)   The notification, in addition to the requirements of KRS 281.928
shall include the make, model, license number, vehicle identification number,
owner's name and last known address, and tentative date of sale for the
vehicle, and state that the towing company or storage facility seeks to obtain
a new title free and clear of any liens, excluding tax liens.
         (c)   If the certified letter required under this division is not sent
within the ten days by the towing and storage company, then only ten days of
storage may be charged.
         (d)   The lienholder has the right to take possession of the motor
vehicle after showing proof of lien still enforced, and paying the reasonable
or agreed towing and storage charges on the motor vehicle.
         (e)   If a lienholder does not exercise the right to take possession
of the motor vehicle under this division within 45 days of notification, the
tow company or storage facility may obtain a new title under KRS 186A.145 free
and clear of any liens, excluding tax liens.
         (f)   Nothing in this division shall allow the transfer of a vehicle
subject to a lien, except as provided in KRS 186A.190 or division (A)(3)(e) of
this section.
      (4)   If there are no lienholders required to be notified under this
section, and the owner does not exercise the right to take possession of the
motor vehicle under this section within 45 days of notification required under
KRS 281.928, the tow company or storage facility may obtain a new title under
KRS 186.145 free and clear of any liens, excluding tax liens.
   (B)   Division (A) of this section shall not apply to the following contents
of a motor vehicle, which shall be released to the vehicle owner or the owner's
designated agent upon request, if the request is made within 45 days of the
date the vehicle was towed:
      (1)   Prescription medication in its proper container;
      (2)   Personal medical supplies and equipment or records;
      (3)   Educational materials, including but not limited to calculators,
books, papers, and school supplies;
      (4)   Documents, files, electronic devices, or equipment which may be
able to store personal information or information relating to a person's
employment or business;
      (5)   Firearms and ammunition. Notwithstanding the provisions of division
(C) of this section, firearms and ammunition which are not claimed by the owner
of the vehicle within 45 days of the date the vehicle was towed shall be
transferred to the Department of State Police for disposition as provided by
KRS 16.220;
      (6)   Cargo in the possession of persons engaged in transportation in
interstate commerce as registered under KRS 186.020;
      (7)   Cargo in the possession of an integrated intermodal small package
carrier as defined by KRS 281.605(12);
      (8)   Child restraint systems or child booster seats; and
      (9)   Checks, checkbooks, debit or credit cards, money orders, stocks, or
bonds.
   (C)   Except as provided in division (B)(5) of this section, any contents
exempted under division (B) that are not claimed by the owner of the vehicle
within 45 days of the date the vehicle was towed may be sold or otherwise
legally disposed of by the storage or towing company. Any contents exempted
under division (B) of this section that are not claimed by the owner of the
vehicle within 45 days of the date the vehicle was towed shall not be sold, but
shall be otherwise legally disposed of by the storage or towing company.
   (D)   The storage or towing company shall not be responsible for contents in
a vehicle's trunk or other locked compartment to which the storage or towing
company is without access, unless the towing company intentionally opens the
area without the owner's consent.
   (E)   This section shall not apply when a local government causes a vehicle
to be towed pursuant to KRS 82.605 to 82.640 or if state government causes a
vehicle to be towed.
(KRS 376.275(1) - (5))
SNOW EMERGENCY
§ 72.35 ANNOUNCEMENT OF SNOW EMERGENCY.
   Whenever the Chief of Police or other authorized city official finds that
falling snow, sleet, or freezing rain will create a condition which makes it
necessary that the parking of motor vehicles on snow emergency routes be
prohibited, or whenever he finds on the basis of a firm forecast of snow,
sleet, or freezing rain that the weather conditions so forecasted may create a
condition making it necessary that such parking be prohibited, he is authorized
to announce such prohibition, to become effective at a time specified by him.
After the effective time of such prohibition no person shall park any vehicle
or permit any vehicle to remain parked on a snow emergency route. However, if a
fall of snow, sleet, or freezing rain occurs after 11:00 p.m. and prior to 6:00
a.m., and the Chief of Police or other authorized city official has not
announced prior to 11:00 p.m. that parking on snow emergency routes is to be
prohibited after a specified time, a vehicle parked on a snow emergency route
may remain so parked until 7:00 a.m. following such fall. The prohibition of
parking announced by the Chief of Police or other authorized city official
under the authority of this section shall remain in effect until he announces
the termination of the snow emergency, in part or in which the prohibition of
parking authorized by this section shall no longer be in effect.
Penalty, see § 72.99
§ 72.36 TERMINATION OF EMERGENCY.
   Whenever the Chief of Police or other authorized city official shall find
that some or all of the conditions which gave rise to the snow emergency
prohibition no longer exist, he is authorized to declare the termination of the
emergency, in part or in whole, effective immediately on announcement. If such
announcement is made other than between 6:00 a.m. and 11:00 p.m., it shall be
repeated between those hours.
§ 72.37 SNOW EMERGENCY ROUTES.
   The term SNOW EMERGENCY ROUTE shall mean any route designated by the Chief
of Police or other authorized city official. On such street or highway
designated as a snow emergency route, special signs shall be posted to this
effect.
§ 72.99 PENALTY.
   Any person receiving a citation for any parking violation in the city shall
be deemed to have committed a violation and shall be fined in an amount not
less than $20 nor more than $100.
(KRS 189.990(1))
CHAPTER 73: BICYCLES, MOTORCYCLES, AND TOY VEHICLES
Section
   
73.01   Operation of bicycles
   
73.02   Operation of motorcycles and motorscooters
   
73.03   Skating and coasting
   
73.04   Clinging to vehicles
   
73.05   Skateboards or scooters on sidewalks
 
   
73.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Required obedience to traffic directions, see §
70.02(C)
§ 73.01 OPERATION OF BICYCLES.
   (A)   No person shall operate a bicycle on the sidewalks of the city.
   (B)   No person shall operate a bicycle on any section of a public park,
playground, play lot, or tot lot, except on a roadway or in a parking area.
   (C)   No operator of any bicycle shall carry another person on such bicycle.
Penalty, see § 73.99
Statutory reference:
   Bicycles; safety regulations and standards, see KRS 189.287
§ 73.02 OPERATION OF MOTORCYCLES AND MOTORSCOOTERS.
   (A)   No operator of any motorcycle, motorscooter, or power-driven bicycle
shall carry another person except on a seat attached thereto or in a side car
attached to the vehicle.
   (B)   No operator of a motorcycle, motorscooter, or power-driven bicycle
shall operate such vehicle in any public park, except on a roadway or in a
parking area.
   (C)   No operator of a motorcycle, motorscooter, or power-driven bicycle
shall operate such vehicle in any play lot or tot lot.
Penalty, see § 73.99
Statutory reference:
   Regulations for operating and riding on motorcycles, see KRS 189.285
§ 73.03 SKATING AND COASTING.
   Except on streets which may be declared from time to time as “play streets”
by the city and protected by barriers or official signs, it shall be unlawful
for any person on skates or riding on a coaster sled or toy vehicle of any
kind, to go on any roadway except at a crosswalk.
Penalty, see § 73.99
§ 73.04 CLINGING TO VEHICLES.
   (A)   No person while riding on a bicycle, coaster sled, roller skates, or
any toy vehicle shall cling to any moving vehicle on any street, or fasten or
attach the vehicle on which he is riding thereto.
   (B)   No person shall ride on the projection, running board, or fenders of
any vehicle.
Penalty, see § 73.99
§ 73.05 SKATEBOARDS OR SCOOTERS ON SIDEWALKS.
   No person may operate, control, ride, or otherwise use any skateboard or
scooter upon any sidewalk within the city limits. The carrying with or walking
with a skateboard or scooter does not violate this section.
(Ord. 724, passed 8-1-89)
Penalty, see § 73.99
§ 73.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter for which no specific
penalty is otherwise provided, shall be deemed to have committed a violation
and shall be fined not more than $50 for each offense.
   (B)   Any violation of §
73.05 may subject the violator to be sentenced to 10 to 40 hours of community
service, a fine of $10 to $100, or both fine and community service.
(Ord. 724, passed 8-1-89)
CHAPTER 74: PARKING SCHEDULES
Schedule
   
I.   Parking prohibited
SCHEDULE I. PARKING PROHIBITED.
   Parking is prohibited in the following locations:
 
Street      Location                          Prohibition
                                              No parking either side, except
                                              when a funeral service is
                                              schedule to be held at either of
            From the place where Brown Street the funeral homes located on said
Main Street connects with Main Street         portion of Main Street, parking
            eastward to the easternmost       on south side of the street
            boundary of East End Cemetery     permitted for one hour before,
                                              until one hour after, the funeral
                                              service, for vehicles
                                              participating in service
 
(Ord. 579, passed 11-5-63)
Penalty, see § 72.99
CHAPTER 75: GOLF CARTS AND ALL-TERRAIN VEHICLES
Section
General Provisions
   
75.01   Definitions
   
75.02   Permit fees and annual renewal deadline
Golf Carts
   
75.15   Specification of streets open for golf cart use
   
75.16   Operation of golf carts on city streets
   
75.17   Qualifications for operation of golf carts on city streets
All-Terrain Vehicles
   
75.30   Specification of streets open for all-terrain vehicle use
   
75.31   Operation of all-terrain vehicles on city streets
   
75.32   Qualifications for operation of all-terrain vehicles on city streets
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 75.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALL-TERRAIN VEHICLE. Any motor vehicle used for recreational off-road use.
   CITY. The City of Cadiz, Kentucky.
   GOLF CART. Any self-propelled vehicle that:
      (1)   Is designed for the transportation of players or maintaining
equipment on a golf course, while engaged in the playing of golf, or
maintaining the condition of the grounds on a golf course;
      (2)   Has a minimum of four wheels;
      (3)   Is designed to operate at a speed of not more than 35 miles per
hour;
      (4)   Is designed to carry not more than six persons, including the
driver;
      (5)   Has a maximum gross vehicle weight of 2,500 pounds;
      (6)   Has a maximum rated payload capacity of 1,200 pounds; and
      (7)   Meets the Federal motor vehicle safety standards for low-speed
vehicles set forth in 49 CFR §
571.500.
   HIGHWAY. Any public road, street, avenue, alley or boulevard, bridge,
viaduct, or trestle and the approaches to them and includes private residential
roads and parking lots covered by an agreement under KRS 61.362, off-street
parking facilities offered for public use, whether publicly or privately owned,
except for-hire parking facilities listed in KRS 189.700.
   INTERSECTION.
      (1)   (a)   The area embraced within the prolongation or connection of
the lateral curb lines, or, if none, then the lateral boundary lines of the
roadways of two highways which join one another, but do not necessarily
continue, at approximately right angles, or the area within which vehicles
traveling upon different highways joining at any other angle may come into
conflict; or
         (b)   Where a highway includes two roadways 30 feet or more apart,
then every crossing of each roadway of such divided highway by an intersecting
highway shall be regarded as a separate intersection. If the intersecting
highway also includes two roadways 30 feet or more apart, every crossing of two
roadways of the highways shall be regarded as a separate intersection.
      (2)   The junction of a private alley with a public street or highway
shall not constitute an intersection.
   MOTOR VEHICLE. Includes all vehicles except:
      (1)   Road rollers;
      (2)   Road graders;
      (3)   Farm tractors;
      (4)   Vehicles on which power shovels are mounted;
      (5)   Construction equipment customarily used only on the site of
construction and which is not practical for the transportation of persons or
property upon the highways;
      (6)   Vehicles that travel exclusively upon rails; and
      (7)   Vehicles propelled by muscular power.
   OPERATOR. The person in actual physical control of a vehicle.
   ROADWAY. That portion of a highway improved, designed, or ordinarily used
for vehicular travel, exclusive of the berm or shoulder. If a highway includes
two or more separate roadways, the term ROADWAY as used herein shall refer to
any roadway separately but not to all such roadways collectively.
   VEHICLE. Includes:
      (1)   All agencies for the transportation of persons or property over or
upon the public highways of the Commonwealth; and
      (2)   All vehicles passing over or upon the highways.
(Ord. 15-13, passed 1-5-16)
§ 75.02 PERMIT FEES AND ANNUAL RENEWAL DATE.
   The fee for an initial permit from the city shall be $25. A permit shall be
valid until the first day of March of the following year. The fee for a renewal
permit from the city shall be $15.
(Ord. 15-13, passed 1-5-16)
GOLF CARTS
§ 75.15 SPECIFICATION OF STREETS OPEN FOR GOLF CART USE.
   Each city street with a posted speed limit of 35 miles per hour or less
shall be open for golf cart use.
(Ord. 15-13, passed 1-5-16)
§ 75.16 OPERATION OF GOLF CARTS ON CITY STREETS.
   A person may operate a golf cart on a city street if:
   (A)   The posted speed limit of the city street is 35 miles per hour or
less;
   (B)   The operator of the golf cart does not cross a roadway at an
intersection where the roadway being crossed has a posted speed limit of more
than 35 miles per hour;
   (C)   The operator has a valid operator's license in his or her possession;
   (D)   The golf cart is being operated between sunrise and sunset;
   (E)   The golf cart displays a slow-moving vehicle emblem in compliance with
KRS 189.820;
   (F)   The operator and all passengers use all safety equipment with which
the golf cart is equipped; and
   (G)   No more than the maximum number of occupants for which the golf cart
is designed are onboard.
(Ord. 15-13, passed 1-5-16)
§ 75.17 QUALIFICATIONS FOR OPERATION OF GOLF CARTS ON CITY STREETS.
   (A)   A golf cart operating on a city street shall be insured in compliance
with KRS 304.39-080 by the owner or operator, and the proof of insurance shall
be inside the golf cart at all times of operation on a city street.
   (B)   Any person operating a golf cart on a city street shall be subject to
the traffic regulations of KRS Ch. 189.
   (C)   A golf cart operated on a city street shall:
      (1)   Prior to seeking a city permit, be inspected by a certified
inspector designated by the County Sheriff and certified through the Department
of Vehicle Regulation to ensure that the golf cart complies with the
requirements of KRS 189.286. The inspection fee under this section shall not
exceed $5 with an additional fee not to exceed$10 per trip charged if it
becomes necessary for the certified inspector to travel to the site of the golf
cart rather than having the golf cart brought to the Sheriff’s inspection area;
      (2)   Be issued a permit for the golf cart by the city; and
      (3)   Display a sticker or permit that identifies that the golf cart is
allowed to be operated on city streets within the city.
(Ord. 15-13, passed 1-5-16)
ALL-TERRAIN VEHICLES
§ 75.30 SPECIFICATION OF STREETS OPEN FOR ALL-TERRAIN VEHICLE USE.
   Each city street shall be open for all-terrain vehicle use.
(Ord. 15-13, passed 1-5-16)
2016 S-12
§ 75.31 OPERATION OF ALL-TERRAIN VEHICLES ON CITY STREETS.
   A person may operate an all-terrain vehicle on a city street if:
   (A)   The operator has a valid operator's license in his or her possession;
   (B)   The all-terrain vehicle is being operated during daylight hours,
except when engaged in snow removal or emergency road maintenance;
   (C)   The all-terrain vehicle has at least one headlight and two taillights,
which shall be illuminated at all times the vehicle is in operation;
   (D)   The operator complies with all applicable traffic regulations;
   (E)   The operator and all passengers use all safety equipment with which
the all-terrain vehicle is equipped; and
   (F)   No more than the maximum number of occupants for which the all-terrain
vehicle is designed are onboard.
(Ord. 15-13, passed 1-5-16)
§ 75.32 QUALIFICATIONS FOR OPERATION OF ALL-TERRAIN VEHICLES ON CITY STREETS.
   (A)   An all-terrain vehicle operating on a city street shall be insured in
compliance with KRS 304.39-080 by the owner or operator, and the proof of
insurance shall be inside the all-terrain vehicle at all times of operation on
a city street.
   (B)   Any person operating an all-terrain vehicle on a city street shall be
subject to the traffic regulations of KRS Ch. 189.
   (C)   An all-terrain vehicle operated on a city street shall:
      (1)   Be issued a permit annually for the all-terrain vehicle by the
city; and
      (2)   Display a sticker or permit that identifies that the all-terrain
vehicle is allowed to be operated on city streets within the city.
(Ord. 15-13, passed 1-5-16)
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
Chapter
   
90.   ANIMALS
   
91.   STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
   
92.   NUISANCES
   
93.   FIREWORKS; FIRE PREVENTION
   
94.   LITTERING
   
95.   CEMETERIES
   
96.   ABANDONED VEHICLES
   
97.   TREES
CHAPTER 90: ANIMALS
Section
General Provisions
   
90.01   Definitions
   
90.02   Animals running at large
   
90.03   Cruelty to animals in the second degree
   
90.04   Dyeing or selling dyed chicks or rabbits
   
90.05   Abandoning domestic animals prohibited
   
90.06   Destruction of abandoned and suffering animal
   
90.07   Keeping horses and cows
Dogs
   
90.15   Definition
   
90.16   License required
   
90.17   Registration and issuance of license
   
90.18   License tag to be attached to dog
   
90.19   Dogs running at large
   
90.20   Noise disturbance
   
90.21   Impoundment
   
90.22   Reclaiming impounded dog
 
   
90.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 90.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABANDON. Abandonment shall constitute the relinquishment of all rights and
claims by the owner to the animal.
(KRS 257.100(4))
   AT LARGE. Off the premises of the owner, and not under the control of the
owner or his agent either by leash, cord, chain, or otherwise.
   OWNER. Every person having a right of property to an animal and every person
who keeps or harbors an animal, has it in his care, or permits it to remain on
or about the premises owned or occupied by him.
§ 90.02 ANIMALS RUNNING AT LARGE.
   (A)   No person who is the owner of any animal shall permit it to run at
large in any public road, highway, street, lane, or alley, or upon or enclosure
without the consent of the owner of the yard, lot, or enclosure.
   (B)   The owner of an animal who permits it to run at large in violation of
this section is liable for all damages caused by such animal upon the premises
of another.
Penalty, see § 90.99
§ 90.03 CRUELTY TO ANIMALS IN THE SECOND DEGREE.
   (A)   A person is guilty of cruelty to animals in the second degree when
except as authorized by law he intentionally or wantonly:
      (1)   Subjects any animal to or causes cruel or injurious mistreatment
through abandonment, participates other than as provided in §
90.03 in causing it to fight for pleasure or profit, (including but not limited
to being a spectator or vendor at an event where a four legged animal is caused
to fight for pleasure or profit) mutilation, beating, torturing any animal
other than a dog or cat, tormenting, failing to provide adequate food, drink,
space, or health care, or by any other means;
      (2)   Subjects any animal in his custody to cruel neglect; or
      (3)   Kills any animal other than a domestic animal killed by poisoning.
This subdivision shall not apply to intentional poisoning of a dog or cat.
Intentional poisoning of a dog or cat shall constitute a violation of this
section.
   (B)   Nothing in this section shall apply to the killing of animals:
      (1)   Pursuant to a license to hunt, fish, or trap;
      (2)   Incident to the processing as food or for other commercial
purposes;
      (3)   For humane purposes;
      (4)   For veterinary, agricultural, spaying or neutering, or cosmetic
purposes;
      (5)   For purposes relating to sporting activities, including but not
limited to horse racing at organized races and training for organized races,
organized horse shows, or other animal shows;
      (6)   For bona fide animal research activities of institutions of higher
education; or a business entity registered with the U.S. Department of
Agriculture under the Animal Welfare Act or subject to other federal laws
governing animal research;
      (7)   In defense of self or another person against an aggressive or
diseased animal;
      (8)   In defense of a domestic animal against an aggressive or diseased
animal;
      (9)   For animal or pest control; or
      (10)   For any other purpose authorized by law.
(KRS 525.130)
Penalty, see § 90.99
Statutory reference:
   Cruelty to animals in the first degree, a class D felony, see KRS 525.125
§ 90.04 DYEING OR SELLING DYED CHICKS OR RABBITS.
   No person shall sell, exchange, offer to sell or exchange, display or
possess living baby chicks, ducklings, or other fowl or rabbits which have been
dyed or colored; nor dye or color any baby chicks, ducklings or other fowl or
rabbits; nor sell, exchange, offer to sell or exchange or to give away baby
chicks, ducklings or other fowl or rabbits, under two months of age in any
quantity less than six, except that any rabbit weighing three pounds or more
may be sold at an age of six weeks.
(KRS 436.600)
Penalty, see § 90.99
§ 90.05 ABANDONING DOMESTIC ANIMALS PROHIBITED.
   No owner of a domestic animal shall abandon the animal.
Penalty, see § 90.99
§ 90.06 DESTRUCTION OF ABANDONED AND SUFFERING ANIMAL.
   (A)   Any peace officer, animal control officer, or any person authorized by
the board may destroy or kill or cause to be destroyed or killed, any animal
found abandoned and suffering and not properly cared for, or appearing to be
injured, diseased, or suffering past recovery for any useful purpose.
   (B)   Before destroying the animal the officer shall obtain the judgment to
that effect of a veterinarian, or of two reputable citizens called by him to
view the animal in his presence, or shall obtain consent to the destruction
from the owner of the animal.
   (C)   (1)   Any animal placed in the custody of a licensed veterinarian for
treatment, boarding, or other care, which shall be unclaimed by its owner or
his agent for a period of more than ten days after written notice by certified
mail, return receipt requested, is given the owner or his agent at his last
known address, shall be deemed to be abandoned and may be turned over to the
nearest humane society or animal shelter or disposed of as the custodian may
deem proper.
      (2)   The giving of notice to the owner, or the agent of the owner of the
animal by the licensed veterinarian, shall relieve the licensed veterinarian
and any custodian to whom the animal may be given of any further liability for
disposal.
(KRS 257.100)
§ 90.07 KEEPING HORSES AND COWS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to keep or maintain any horse,
cow, goat, sheep, or other livestock within the city unless such animal be kept
within an enclosure of not less than one acre per animal, or to maintain or
keep any stall, or enclosure for such animals within 200 feet of any dwelling
house, except the dwelling house of the owner of such animals.
   (B)   All pens, stables, and enclosures permitted to be kept in the city
shall be kept in a clean and sanitary condition and shall be open to inspection
by the County Health Officer.
(Ord. 05-04, passed 9-6-05)
DOGS
§ 90.15 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DOG. Any member of the canine family, six months of age or over, male or
female.
§ 90.16 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to own or keep a dog or dogs in the city
without first obtaining a license for each dog. This section and § 90.17 shall
not apply to dogs whose owners are nonresidents temporarily within the city for
a period less than 30 days.
Penalty, see § 90.99
§ 90.17 REGISTRATION AND ISSUANCE OF LICENSE.
   (A)   All dogs kept in the city shall be registered as to sex, breed, name
and address of the owner, and name of the dog. At the time of the registration
the owner shall obtain a license tag for the dog and shall pay a fee as
established by City Council for each dog.
   (B)   The license tag shall be valid for one year from the date of issue. A
new tag shall be obtained each year by every owner and a new fee paid.
Penalty, see § 90.99
§ 90.18 LICENSE TAG TO BE ATTACHED TO DOG.
   The license tag shall be fastened to the collar of the dog and shall be worn
continuously, and the failure to have the tag so attached shall subject the
owner or keeper thereof to the penalties provided herein.
Penalty, see § 90.99
§ 90.19 DOGS RUNNING AT LARGE.
   It shall be unlawful for the owner or keeper of any dog, either licensed or
unlicensed, regardless of the age of the dog, to allow the dog to be at large
and unattended or to run in any street, park, lawn, garden, schoolyard,
playground, or on any other public or private property.
Penalty, see § 90.99
§ 90.20 NOISE DISTURBANCE.
   No person shall keep or harbor any dog within the city which, by frequent
and habitual barking, howling, or yelping, creates unreasonably loud and
disturbing noises of such a character, intensity, and duration as to disturb
the peace, quiet, and good order of one or more of the inhabitants of two or
more separate residences. Any person who shall allow any dog habitually to
remain, be lodged, or fed within any dwelling, yard, or enclosure which he
occupies or owns shall be considered as harboring the dog.
Penalty, see § 90.99
§ 90.21 IMPOUNDMENT.
   Every police officer, peace officer, or other authorized official shall have
the authority to apprehend any dog running at large in violation of this
chapter and any unlicensed dog in the city, and to impound such dog or have
such dog impounded in the appropriate place.
§ 90.22 RECLAIMING IMPOUNDED DOG.
   The owner of any dog so impounded may reclaim the dog upon the payment of
all appropriate fees and after fulfilling any and all other requirements.
§ 90.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter for which
another penalty is not already otherwise provided shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and shall be fined not more than $500 for each offense. Each day
the violation exists shall constitute a separate offense.
   (B)   Any person who violates §
90.03 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be fined not more than $500,
imprisoned for not more than 12 months, or both for each offense.
(KRS 525.130)
   (C)   Any person who violates §
90.04 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be fined not less than $100
nor more than $500.
(KRS 436.600)
CHAPTER 91: STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
Section
Excavations and Construction
   
91.01   Opening permit required
   
91.02   Application and cash deposit
   
91.03   Restoration of pavement
   
91.04   Barriers around excavations
   
91.05   Warning lights
   
91.06   Sidewalk construction
Road and Bridge Projects
   
91.15   Public hearing required
   
91.16   Reserved
   
91.17   Public may testify; effect of testimony
   
91.18   Hearing to be held prior to construction
   
91.19   Separate hearing for each project not required
   
91.20   Exemptions from hearing requirement
Obstructions
   
91.30   Unloading on street or sidewalk
   
91.31   Street and sidewalk obstruction
   
91.32   Materials on street or sidewalk
   
91.33   Removal of ice and snow
Curb, Gutter, and Sidewalk Maintenance
   
91.45   Maintenance within the right-of-way
   
91.46   Curb, gutter and sidewalk replacement agreement
   
91.47   Installation and maintenance of driveway entrance pipes
   
91.48   New development or redevelopment
   
91.49   Driveway entrance aprons
   
91.50   Street shoulders
   
91.51   Undeveloped right-of-way
   
91.52   Notice to property owner
   
91.53   Property owner response to notice
   
91.54   Assessment of work done by city-lien procedure
   
91.55   Enforcement by city
   
91.56   Authority of city to suspend work
Display of Address Numbers
   
91.70   Definition
   
91.71   Application for address
   
91.72   Display of numbers; standards
 
   
91.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Skateboards or scooters on sidewalks, see §
73.05
§ 91.01 OPENING PERMIT REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, other than an authorized city official,
to make any opening in any street, alley, sidewalk, or public way of the city
unless a permit to make the opening has been obtained prior to commencement of
the work.
Penalty, see § 91.99
§ 91.02 APPLICATION AND CASH DEPOSIT.
   Each permit for making an opening shall be confined to a single project and
shall be issued by the authorized city official. Application shall be made on a
form prescribed by the legislative body, giving the exact location of the
proposed opening, the kind of paving, the area and depth to be excavated, and
such other facts as may be provided for. The permit shall be issued only after
a cash deposit sufficient to cover the cost of restoration has been posted with
the authorized city official, conditioned upon prompt and satisfactory
refilling of excavations and restoration of all surfaces disturbed.
§ 91.03 RESTORATION OF PAVEMENT.
   (A)   The opening and restoration of a pavement or other surface shall be
performed under the direction and to the satisfaction of the authorized city
official, and in accordance with rules, regulations, and specifications
approved by the legislative body.
   (B)   Upon failure or refusal of the permittee satisfactorily to fill the
excavation, restore the surface, and remove all excess materials within the
time specified in the permit or where not specified therein, within a
reasonable time after commencement of the work, the city may proceed without
notice to make such fill and restoration and the deposit referred to in §
91.02 shall be forfeited. Thereupon the deposit shall be paid into the
appropriate city fund, except such part demanded and paid to the permittee as
the difference between the deposit and the charges of the city for restoration
services performed by it. If the amount of such services performed by the city
should exceed the amount of the deposit, the Clerk-Treasurer or other proper
administrative officer shall proceed to collect the remainder due from the
permittee.
§ 91.04 BARRIERS AROUND EXCAVATIONS.
   Any person engaged in or employing others in excavating or opening any
street, sidewalk, alley, or other public way shall have the excavation or
opening fully barricaded at all times to prevent injury to persons or animals.
Penalty, see § 91.99
§ 91.05 WARNING LIGHTS.
   Any person engaged in or employing others in excavating or otherwise in any
manner obstructing a portion or all of any street, sidewalk, alley, or other
public way, at all times during the night season shall install and maintain at
least two illuminated red lamps which shall be securely and conspicuously
posted on, at, or near each end of the obstruction or excavation, and if the
space involved exceeds 50 feet in extent, at least one additional lamp for each
added 50 feet or portion thereof excavated or obstructed.
Penalty, see § 91.99
§ 91.06 SIDEWALK CONSTRUCTION.
   It shall be the duty of the authorized city official to supervise
construction or repair of sidewalks within the city. He shall cause
specifications to be prepared for the construction of the various kinds of
pavements and transmit the specifications to the legislative body for approval.
When the specifications are approved, the legislative body shall advertise for
proposals to do all the work which may be ordered by the city in construction
and repair of sidewalks, and shall authorize the Mayor to contract therefor,
for a period not exceeding one year, with the lowest responsible bidder, who
shall for the faithful performance of the work. The Mayor, if authorized by
City Council, may make separate contracts for the different kinds of work with
different parties.
Statutory reference:
   Sidewalks; construction along public roads; specifications, see KRS 178.290
   Sidewalks; ramps for wheelchairs, see KRS 66.660
ROAD AND BRIDGE PROJECTS
§ 91.15 PUBLIC HEARING REQUIRED.
   Before the city expends state derived tax revenues on a municipal highway,
road, street, or municipal bridge, it shall provide an opportunity to the
public to provide input in a public meeting for which notice has been given
under KRS 61.823(2) to (4) with regard to the project and to priorities for use
of tax moneys for road and bridge purposes.
(KRS 174.100)
§ 91.16 RESERVED.
§ 91.17 PUBLIC MAY TESTIFY; EFFECT OF TESTIMONY.
   (A)   Prior to the contemplated date of expenditure of state derived tax
revenues on a road or bridge by the city, the city shall include the topic as a
specific item on the public meeting agenda and shall allow any person to speak
with regard to any proposed project, any project which he or she feels should
be built or done which has not been proposed, priorities for completion of
projects, and any other matter related to road or bridge projects.
   (B)   The city shall not be bound by the comments and input provided at the
meeting but shall give due consideration to them.
(KRS 174.100(1), (2))
§ 91.18 HEARING TO BE HELD PRIOR TO CONSTRUCTION.
   The city shall not begin construction on a road or bridge project wherein
state derived tax revenues are involved until the meeting as provided herein
has been held.
(KRS 174.100(3))
§ 91.19 SEPARATE HEARING FOR EACH PROJECT NOT REQUIRED.
   This subchapter shall not be construed to require a separate meeting for
each project. A single meeting encompassing the entire road and bridge program,
provided all projects subsequently undertaken have been identified at the
meeting, shall meet the requirements of this subchapter.
(KRS 174.100(4))
§ 91.20 EXEMPTIONS FROM HEARING REQUIREMENT.
   The provisions of this subchapter shall not apply to emergency repair or
replacement of roads or bridges necessitated by natural or man-caused disasters
nor to street cleaning or snow removal operations.
(KRS 174.100(5))
OBSTRUCTIONS
§ 91.30 UNLOADING ON STREET OR SIDEWALK.
   No person shall unload any heavy material in the streets of the city by
throwing or letting the material fall upon the pavement of any street, alley,
sidewalk, or other public way, without first placing some sufficient protection
over the pavement.
Penalty, see § 91.99
§ 91.31 STREET AND SIDEWALK OBSTRUCTION.
   No person shall obstruct any street, alley, sidewalk, or other public way
within the city by erecting thereon any fence or building, or permitting any
fence or building to remain thereon. Each day that any fence or building is
permitted to remain upon the public way shall constitute a separate offense.
Penalty, see § 91.99
§ 91.32 MATERIALS ON STREET OR SIDEWALK.
   No person shall encumber any street or sidewalk. No owner, occupant, or
person having the care of any building or lot of land, bordering on any street
or sidewalk, shall permit it to be encumbered with barrels, boxes, cans,
articles, or substances of any kind, so as to interfere with the free and
unobstructed use thereof.
Penalty, see § 91.99
Cross-reference:
   Littering on streets or sidewalks, see
Chapter 94
§ 91.33 REMOVAL OF ICE AND SNOW.
   It shall be the duty of the owner or of the occupant of each and every
parcel of real estate in the city abutting upon any sidewalk to keep the
sidewalk abutting his premises free and clear of snow and ice to the extent
feasible under the prevailing weather conditions, and to remove therefrom all
snow and ice, to the extent feasible under the prevailing weather conditions, a
reasonable time which will ordinarily not exceed 12 hours after the abatement
of any storm during which the snow and ice may have accumulated.
Penalty, see § 91.99
CURB, GUTTER, AND SIDEWALK MAINTENANCE
§ 91.45 MAINTENANCE WITHIN THE RIGHT-OF-WAY.
   The property owner shall be responsible for maintaining in a clean and
sanitary condition, the sidewalks, ditches, curbs and gutters, driveway pipes,
drainage pipes, and unpaved/undeveloped portion of rights-of-way abutting such
premises.
(Ord. 96-33, passed - -96)
§ 91.46 CURB, GUTTER AND SIDEWALK REPLACEMENT AGREEMENT.
   (A)   In order to encourage and support the integrity of the existing
infrastructure facilities within the city rights-of-way, the city will provide
assistance to the property owner in the reconstruction of curb, gutter, and/or
sidewalks. This reconstruction work shall commence upon execution of an
agreement between the city, and the property owner, whereas, the city shall be
responsible for the actual construction work necessary to replace and/or repair
curbs, gutters, and/or sidewalks.
   (B)   The purpose of this assistance by the city shall be to replace
existing curbs, gutters and/or sidewalks located in the right-of-way that are
in need of repair and not for the purpose of construction of new curbs,
gutters, and/or sidewalks or construction of same on private property or
reconstruction of same for cosmetic purposes only. Curbs, gutters, and/or
sidewalks damaged by property owners or replaced for the convenience of the
owner shall be the sole responsibility of the property owner. The city shall be
the sole judge as to which curbs, gutter, and/or sidewalks are in need of
replacement and/or repair under this replacement program.
   (C)   The city shall be the interpreter of this replacement subchapter, and
any questions or unusual circumstances which might arise regarding this chapter
shall be resolved by the city.
(Ord. 96-33, passed - -96; Am. Ord. 14-04, passed 8-5-14)
§ 91.47 INSTALLATION AND MAINTENANCE OF DRIVEWAY ENTRANCE PIPES.
   In order to encourage and support the integrity of the existing
infrastructure facilities within the city rights-of-way, the city will provide
assistance to the property owner in the installation or reinstallation of
driveway entrance pipes within the city rights-of-way. The property owner shall
be responsible for driveway pipes on private property. This work shall commence
upon execution of an agreement between the city and the property owner,
whereas, the city shall be responsible for the actual construction work
necessary to place, install, or reinstall driveway entrance pipes, and the
property owner shall be responsible for the purchase of the pipe required.
   (A)   The city will inspect the drainage ditch and/or existing driveway
entrance pipe and inform the property owner of the required pipe size. All
driveway entrance pipes shall meet the specifications as set forth by the city.
The minimum driveway pipe size shall be 12 inches in diameter.
   (B)   The property owner shall be responsible for supplying the required
pipe as set forth by the city.
   (C)   The city shall be responsible for driveway entrance pipe installation,
reinstallation, and/or maintenance within the right-of-way as follows:
      (1)   The city will install a new driveway entrance pipe in an open
drainage ditch upon request by the adjacent property owner after the new pipe
has been delivered and is on site.
      (2)   The city will remove an existing damaged driveway pipe and install
a new driveway pipe at the existing driveway entrance upon request by the
adjacent property owner after the new pipe has been delivered and is on site.
      (3)   If an existing driveway pipe is blocked with natural material (such
as leaves), which impedes the flow of the drainage facility, the city shall
clear the blockage.
      (4)   If a driveway pipe is blocked due to the pipe being damaged or
collapsed, the city shall attempt to clear the blockage and shall notify the
property owner that the pipe will need to be repaired or replaced.
      (5)   If an existing driveway pipe is too small in diameter to carry
sufficient flow of the drainage facility, the city shall notify the property
owner that the pipe will need to be removed and a new pipe will need to be
installed in the drainage ditch.
      (6)   If an existing driveway pipe is laid at an improper grade, and the
pipe is in good condition, the city shall remove the pipe and reinstall the
pipe at the proper grade.
      (7)   If an existing driveway pipe is laid at an improper grade, and the
pipe is damaged, the city shall notify the property owner that a new pipe will
need to be installed at proper grade.
   (D)   The city shall install and/or reinstall the specified driveway pipe to
proper grade and cover with granular material. In case where pipe is being
replaced, the city shall remove the existing pipe and install the new pipe and
cover with granular material. The city shall not install any other type of
material, nor will additional granular material be supplied after initial
installation of the pipe. The city shall not be responsible for the replacement
of any existing driveway improvements.
(Ord. 96-33, passed - -96)
§ 91.48 NEW DEVELOPMENT OR REDEVELOPMENT.
   When property is developed and/or redeveloped, it shall be the sole
responsibility of the property owner and/or developer to replace and/or
construct curbs, gutters, driveway entrance aprons, and/or sidewalks at the
property owner/developer's own cost in order to conform to the current city
subdivision regulations.
(Ord. 96-33, passed - -96)
Penalty, see § 91.99
§ 91.49 DRIVEWAY ENTRANCE APRONS.
   A property owner is responsible for the total cost of construction and
replacement of driveway entrance aprons. The city shall not share in this cost.
All work done within the city right-of-way shall be in accordance with the
provisions of this chapter and the city standards.
(Ord. 96-33, passed - -96)
Penalty, see § 91.99
§ 91.50 STREET SHOULDERS.
   The city shall not maintain an area adjacent to an improved street which has
not been improved pursuant to city standards and is being used by adjoining
residents as a parking area, nor shall the city furnish granular material or
any other type of material, or keep this area graded. If this area causes a
blockage and prevents proper drainage, at the option of the city, the city will
perform whatever work is necessary to maintain proper drainage. If the city
determines that this type of activity in any way violates or impedes traffic
safety, traffic movement, safety of other citizens, development of the city's
infrastructure, or damage to the city's infrastructure, and/or additional
related ordinances, then the city shall notify the property owner to remove the
improvements within the right-of-way, or the city may perform whatever work is
necessary to remove the improvements within the right-of-way.
(Ord. 96-33, passed - -96)
Penalty, see § 91.99
§ 91.51 UNDEVELOPED RIGHT-OF-WAY.
   The city shall not maintain an area within the undeveloped right-of-way
which has not been improved pursuant to city standards and is being used by
adjoining property owners as private access, driveway, or parking area, nor
shall the city furnish bituminous asphalt, Portland cement concrete, dense
graded aggregate, granular material or any other type of fill or improvement,
or keep this area graded. If this area causes a blockage and prevents proper
drainage, at the option of the city, the city will perform whatever work is
necessary to maintain proper drainage. If maintenance, repair, or installation
of any utility is required within any of these areas, the city and/or utility
company shall be able to remove any improvements within the right-of-way as may
be necessary. If the city determines that this type of activity in any way
violates or impedes traffic safety, traffic movement, safety of other citizens,
development of the city's infrastructure, damage to the city's infrastructure,
or any other provisions within this chapter, city standards, and/or additional
related ordinances, then the city shall notify the property owner to remove the
improvements within the right-of-way, or the city will perform whatever work is
necessary to remove the improvements within the right-of-way.
(Ord. 96-33, passed - -96)
Penalty, see § 91.99
§ 91.52 NOTICE TO PROPERTY OWNER.
   (A)   Whenever circumstances are such, in the opinion of the city, that an
existing driveway tile or culvert will need to be removed and a new pipe
installed, or that any other provision within this chapter needs to be
enforced, and it becomes necessary to effect repairs, and in order to maintain
in a reasonable safe condition for the use of the public, the city may cause a
notice in writing to be given to the property owner of the property abutting
such facility requiring immediate repair and/or work. This notice may inform
the recipient of the necessary repairs required and request that the recipient
proceed immediately to accomplish the work within a period of 30 days after
receipt of the notice.
   (B)   The notice may be given according to any of the following methods:
      (1)   To the owner personally.
      (2)   To the owner by first class mail at the last known address of the
owner of the said real property as it appears on the current tax assessment
roll.
      (3)   To the occupant, tenant or resident of the premises, or person
having control or management of the premises delivered personally or by first
class mail.
      (4)   If the last known address is known to be faulty, and the current
owner cannot be located, an affidavit of diligent search may be filed, and no
further written notice is required.
   (C)   Such notice may:
      (1)   Be in writing.
      (2)   Include a description of the property sufficient for
identification, i.e. the property address.
      (3)   Include a statement of the necessary repairs and/or work required.
      (4)   Allocate a time period for the work to be completed.
      (5)   Include an estimated cost which may be assessed to the property
owner.
(Ord. 96-33, passed - -96; Am. Ord. 14-04, passed 8-5-14)
§ 91.53 PROPERTY OWNER RESPONSE TO NOTICE.
   It is the duty of the property owner, within 30 days of receipt of a notice
to proceed with the required repairs as specified in the notice. The property
owner may elect to have the reconstruction work done by a private contractor,
proceed with the required work himself, or enter into an agreement with the
city as described in §
91.46. A property owner who elects to have the required work performed by a
private contractor or proceed with the work himself shall be responsible for
the entire cost associated with the work.
(Ord. 96-33, passed - -96; Am. Ord. 14-04, passed 8-5-14)
§ 91.54 ASSESSMENT OF WORK DONE BY CITY-LIEN PROCEDURE.
   (A)   In the event the recipient of a notice does not cause the necessary
repair work to be completed within the allotted time period from receipt of the
notice, the city is authorized to bring about the completion of the necessary
repairs. The city shall have the right to assess against the property owner all
costs incurred by the city in the completion of the necessary repairs, and
additionally, the city shall have a lien against the property benefitted by the
repairs.
   (B)   In extreme hardship cases, the city, based on a recommendation by the
city, may waive the costs associated with the required repairs or to enter into
an agreement with the property owner which would establish installment payments
over a noted time period.
   (C)   The city shall notify the property owner of the assessment in writing.
In the event the property owner fails to remit the cost as assessed within 30
days of the notice, the city may take the necessary steps to place a lien
against the property in the office of the County Clerk of Trigg County. The
lien shall remain in full force and effect for the amount due in principal and
interest, and all other related costs and expenses, including but not limited
to attorney fees, legal services and court costs, for collection, until final
payment has been made. Sworn statements recorded in accordance with the
provisions hereof shall be prima facie evidence that all legal formalities have
been complied with and that the work has been done properly and satisfactorily,
and shall be full notice to every person concerned that the amount of the
statement, plus interest, constitutes a charge against the property designated
or described in the statement and that the same is due and collectible as
provided by law.
(Ord. 96-33, passed - -96; Am. Ord. 14-04, passed 8-5-14)
§ 91.55 ENFORCEMENT BY CITY.
   The city has discretion to determine whether and how to utilize or apply
existing resources to enforce the provisions of this chapter. The city is
hereby authorized to give all notices and instructions with reference to any
construction subject to the provisions of this chapter. The decision of the
city with reference to such work and with reference to all materials whether
free or incorporated in the work shall be fully binding on all parties in
interest, and such decision shall be in all cases strictly in keeping with the
intent and purpose of this subchapter and free from all bias and unfairness.
(Ord. 96-33, passed - -96; Am. Ord. 14-04, passed 8-5-14)
§ 91.56 AUTHORITY OF CITY TO SUSPEND WORK.
   The city shall be authorized to suspend work for a given period of time
whenever it may deem such suspension necessary to ensure that the provisions of
this chapter are complied with and adhered to.
(Ord. 96-33, passed - -96)
DISPLAY OF ADDRESS NUMBERS
§ 91.70 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definition shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   STRUCTURE. Any residence, building, mobile home, commercial building,
agriculture related building, or any other building or structure, of any type,
which has been assigned a telephone number by South Central Bell Telephone
Company or other telephone service provider.
(Ord. passed 7-15-97)
§ 91.71 APPLICATION FOR ADDRESS.
   The owner of each structure located in the city, is hereby required to apply
to the Trigg County 911 Coordinator for the establishment and designation of a
mailing address excepting only those structures previously assigned an address
by number and street or roadway.
(Ord. passed 7-15-97)
§ 91.72 DISPLAY OF NUMBERS; STANDARDS.
   (A)   The owner of each structure located in the city, shall display the
number assigned to the structure in such a manner so that said designated
number shall be clearly visible to emergency vehicles.
   (B)   Numerals indicating the official address and number for each structure
shall be posted in a manner to be visible, legible and distinguishable from the
street or roadway on which the property is located by adhering to the following
standards:
      (1)   Numerals shall be plain block arabic numbers. No script or written
numbers shall be permitted under this subchapter.
      (2)   Numerals shall be a minimum of three inches in height.
      (3)   Numbers shall be in contrasting colors to the building wall or mail
box to which said numbers are mounted to. Any structure that utilizes a mail
box for the receipt of mail from the United States Postal Service shall display
said street or road number on both sides of the mail box utilized by said
structure. In no event shall any assigned street numbers be displayed less than
50 feet from the nearest street or roadway.
(Ord. passed 7-15-97)
§ 91.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter for which no penalty is
otherwise provided, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall, upon
conviction, be fined not more than $500.
   (B)   Any person who violates any provision required under §§
91.70 through
91.72 shall be fined an amount not less than $10 nor more than $100 and each
day the violation continues to exist shall be considered a separate violation.
(Ord. passed 7-15-97)
CHAPTER 92: NUISANCES
Section
   
92.01   Public nuisance prohibited
   
92.02   Unsafe and unfit property
   
92.03   Enforcement procedures
   
92.04   Noise disturbances; exemptions
   
92.05   Review by City Council
 
   
92.99   Penalty
Statutory reference:
   Private nuisances, see KRS 411.500 - 411.570
§ 92.01 PUBLIC NUISANCE PROHIBITED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the owner, occupant, or person having control
or management of any land within the city to permit a public nuisance, health
hazard, or source of filth to develop thereon through the accumulation of:
      (1)   Junked or wrecked automobiles, vehicles, machines, or other similar
scrap or salvage materials, excluding inoperative farm equipment;
      (2)   One or more mobile or manufactured homes, as defined in KRS 227.550
that are junked, wrecked, or nonoperative and which are not inhabited;
      (3)   Rubbish; or
      (4)   The excessive growth of weeds or grass.
   (B)   The provisions of this section shall not apply to:
      (1)   Junked, wrecked, or nonoperative automobiles, vehicles, machines,
or other similar scrap or salvage materials located on the business premises of
a licensed automotive recycling dealer as defined under the provisions of KRS
190.010(8);
      (2)   Junked, wrecked, or nonoperative motor vehicles, including parts
cars, stored on private real property by automobile collectors, whether as a
hobby or a profession, if these motor vehicles and parts cars are stored out of
ordinary public view by means of suitable fencing, trees, shrubbery, or other
means; and
      (3)   Any motor vehicle as defined in KRS 281.011 that is owned,
controlled, operated, managed, or leased by a motor carrier.
   (C)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning:
      (1)   AUTOMOBILE COLLECTOR. A person who collects and restores motor
vehicles.
      (2)   ORDINARY PUBLIC VIEW. A sight line within normal visual range by a
person on a public street or sidewalk adjacent to real property.
      (3)   PARTS CAR. As automobile that is not intended to be operated along
streets and roads, but is used to provide parts for the restoration of other
automobiles.
(Ord. passed 3-6-90; Am. Ord. 13-03, passed 3-5-13)
§ 92.02 UNSAFE AND UNFIT PROPERTY.
   It shall be unlawful in the city for the owner of a property to permit any
structure upon the property to become unfit or unsafe for human habitation,
occupancy or use or to permit conditions to exist in the structure which are
dangerous or injurious to the health or safety of the occupants of the
structure, the occupants of neighboring structures or other residents of the
city. No owner of a property shall allow the premises to become unsightly,
dilapidated, unreasonably deteriorated, lacking reasonable repairs, or in a
condition detrimental to the value of the surrounding properties.
(Ord. passed 3-6-90; Am. Ord. 13-03, passed 3-15-13; Am. Ord. 14-09, passed 10-
7-14)
Cross-reference:
   Basic Property Maintenance Code adopted by reference, see §
150.15
§ 92.03 ENFORCEMENT PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Unless imminent danger exists on the subject property that
necessitates immediate action, upon determining that a violation of §§
92.01 or
92.02 exists, the City Clerk, or his or her designee shall cause a written
notice to be served on the owner of the property where the nuisance exists. If
the owner cannot be located after reasonable inquiry, posting the notice on the
premises where the nuisance exists shall be sufficient notice.
   (B)   The written notice required by this section shall set forth the
following:
      (1)   The nature of the nuisance;
      (2)   A statement that the owner of the property shall abate or remove
the nuisance within 72 hours of service or posting of the notice;
      (3)   A statement that if the nuisance is not timely abated or removed,
the city may cause the nuisance to be abated or removed, charge the owner of
the property the reasonable value of materials and labor spent abating or
removing the nuisance, and the city shall have a lien on the property for the
reasonable value of materials and labor spent abating or removing the nuisance;
and
      (4)   A statement that the owner of the property shall have the right to
a public hearing before the City Council regarding the alleged violation if
requested within 72 hours of service or posting of the notice.
   (C)   The owner of the property shall have the right to a public hearing
before the City Council regarding the alleged violation if timely requested as
set forth in this section. If no hearing is timely requested, it is waived.
   (D)   If the nuisance is not timely abated or removed, and no public hearing
before the City Council is scheduled, the City Clerk or his or her designee may
cause the nuisance to be abated or removed, charge the owner of the property
the reasonable value of materials and labor spent abating or removing the
nuisance, and record a lien in favor of the city on the property for the
reasonable value of materials and labor spent abating or removing the nuisance.
   (E)   Performance of the procedures set forth in this section shall not be a
prerequisite to the filing of a criminal case against the owner of the
property, pursuant to §
92.99, and the filing of a criminal case against the owner of the property
pursuant to §
92.99 shall not constitute a waiver of the city’s authority to abate or remove
the nuisance pursuant to this section.
(Ord. passed 3-6-90; Am. Ord. 13-03, passed 3-5-13)
§ 92.04 NOISE DISTURBANCES; EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   Prohibition. It shall be unlawful for any person to make, continue, or
cause or allow to be made or continued any noise disturbance, except as a
danger or emergency warning. Any noise disturbance plainly audible at a
distance of 50 feet from the place from which the noise emanates shall be prima
facie evidence of a violation of this section.
   (B)   Exemptions. None of the terms or prohibitions of this section shall
apply to or be enforced against:
      (1)   All safety signals and warning devices, authorized vehicles when
responding to emergencies (for example, police, fire, and ambulance), or any
other device used to alert persons to an emergency or used during the conduct
of emergency work.
      (2)   The provision, repair and maintenance of municipal services or
public utilities.
      (3)   Bells, chimes, or carillons used in conjunction with religious
purposes, national celebrations, or public holidays.
      (4)   Excavations or repairs on bridges, streets, or highways by or on
behalf of the city, county, or state during the night when the public welfare
and convenience renders it impractical to perform such work during the day.
      (5)   Musical, recreational, and athletic events conducted by schools,
local government and nonprofit entities.
      (6)   Construction operations from 6:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m. on weekdays,
providing all equipment is operated in accordance with manufacturers'
specifications and with all standard equipment, manufacturers' mufflers, and
noise reducing equipment in use and in properly operating condition.
      (7)   Lawn mowers and agricultural equipment used between 6:00 a.m. and
9:00 p.m. when operated with all the manufacturers’ standard mufflers and noise
reducing equipment in use and in properly operating condition.
      (8)   Any variance of this section permitted by the City Council.
(Ord. 00-74, passed 7-6-00; Am. Ord. 13-03, passed 3-5-13) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.05 REVIEW BY CITY COUNCIL.
   Except for any criminal case pending in any court of competent jurisdiction,
the City Council shall have the right to review, modify, or void the decisions
promulgated by an city officer or employee pursuant to this chapter.
(Ord. 13-03, passed 3-5-13)
§ 92.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Pursuant to KRS 83A.065(2), a violation of any provision of this
chapter is expressly made a violation subject to a criminal fine. Any person
violating any provision of this chapter shall be guilty of a violation and
shall be fined not less than $25 nor more than $250 for each offense. A
separate offense shall be deemed committed on each day during which or on which
a violation occurs or continues.
   (B)   The city shall be entitled to recover all costs and reasonable
attorney’s fees incurred by the city in enforcing any provisions of this
chapter.
(Ord. 00-74, passed 7-6-00; Am. Ord. 13-03, passed 3-5-13)
CHAPTER 93: FIREWORKS; FIRE PREVENTION
Section
Fireworks
   
93.01   Definitions; legality of items
   
93.02   Sale or use prohibited; exception for public display
   
93.03   Consumer fireworks; restrictions on sale
   
93.04   Bond or liability insurance requirement
   
93.05   Exempted sales and uses
   
93.06   Destruction of fireworks
Fire Prevention
   
93.20   Blasting permit
   
93.21   Storage of flammables and other matter
 
   
93.99   Penalty
FIREWORKS
§ 93.01 DEFINITIONS; LEGALITY OF ITEMS.
   (A)   As used in KRS 227.700 to 227.750, FIREWORKS means any composition or
device for the purpose of producing a visible or an audible effect by
combustion, deflagration, or detonation, and which meets the definition of
“consumer fireworks” as defined in division (B) or “display” fireworks as
defined in division (D) and as set forth in the U.S. Department of
Transportation’s (DOT) hazardous materials regulations. FIREWORKS does not
include:
      (1)   Exception number 1: Toy pistols, toy canes, toy guns, or other
devices in which paper or plastic caps manufactured in accordance with DOT
regulations, and packed and shipped according to said regulations, are not
considered to be fireworks and shall be allowed to be used and sold at all
times.
      (2)   Exception number 2: Model rockets and model rocket motors designed,
sold, and used for the purpose of propelling recoverable aero models are not
considered to be fireworks.
      (3)   Exception number 3: Propelling or expelling charges consisting of a
mixture of sulfur, charcoal, and saltpeter are not considered as being designed
for producing audible effects.
(KRS 227.700)
   (B)   As used in KRS 227.700 through 227.750, CONSUMER FIREWORKS means
fireworks that are suitable for use by the public, designed primarily to
produce visible effects by combustion, and comply with the construction,
chemical composition, and labeling regulations of the U.S. Consumer Product
Safety Commission. The types, sizes, and amount of pyrotechnic contents of
these devices are limited as enumerated in this chapter. Some small devices
designed to produce audible effects are included, such as whistling devices,
ground devices containing 50 milligrams or less of explosive composition, and
aerial devices containing 130 milligrams or less of explosive composition.
CONSUMER FIREWORKS are further defined by the Consumer Product Safety
Commission in CPSC, 16 CFR Pts. 1500 and 1507, are classified as Division 1.4G
explosives by the U.S. Department of Transportation and include the following:
      (1)   Ground and hand-held sparkling devices.
         (a)   Dipped stick-sparkler or wire sparkler. These devices consist of
a metal wire or wood dowel that has been coated with pyrotechnic composition.
Upon ignition of the tip of the device, a shower of sparks is produced.
Sparklers may contain up to 100 grams of pyrotechnic composition per item.
Those devices containing any perchlorate or chlorate salts may not exceed five
grams of pyrotechnic composition per item. Wire sparklers which contain no
magnesium and which contain less than 100 grams of composition per item are not
included in this category, in accordance with DOT regulations.
         (b)   Cylindrical fountain. Cylindrical tube containing not more than
75 grams of pyrotechnic composition. Upon ignition, a shower of colored sparks,
and sometimes a whistling effect or smoke, is produced. This device may be
provided with a spike for insertion into the ground (spike fountain), a wood or
plastic base for placing on the ground (base fountain), or a wood or cardboard
handle, if intended to be hand-held (handle fountain). When more than one tube
is mounted on a common base, total pyrotechnic composition may not exceed 200
grams, or 500 grams if the tubes are separated from each other on the base by a
distance of at least 1/2 inch.
         (c)   Cone fountain. Cardboard or heavy paper cone containing up to 50
grams of pyrotechnic composition. The effect is the same as that of a
cylindrical fountain. When more than one cone is mounted on a common base, the
total pyrotechnic composition may not exceed 200 grams, or 500 grams if the
tubes are separated from each other on the base by a distance of at least 1/
2 inch.
         (d)   Illuminating torch. Cylindrical tube containing up to 100 grams
of pyrotechnic composition. Upon ignition, colored fire is produced. May be
spike, base, or hand-held. When more than one tube is mounted on a common base,
the total pyrotechnic composition may not exceed 200 grams, or 500 grams if the
tubes are separated from each other on the base by a distance of at least 1/
2 inch.
         (e)   Wheel. A device attached to a post or tree by means of a nail or
string. A wheel may have one or more drivers, each of which may contain not
more than 60 grams of pyrotechnic composition. No wheel may contain more than
200 grams total pyrotechnic composition. Upon ignition, the wheel revolves,
producing a shower of color and sparks and, sometimes, a whistling effect.
         (f)   Ground spinner. Small device containing not more than 20 grams
of pyrotechnic composition, similar in operation to a wheel but intended to be
placed on the ground and ignited. A shower of sparks and color is produced by
the rapidly spinning device.
         (g)   Flitter sparkler. Narrow paper tube attached to a stick or wire
and filled with not more than 100 grams of pyrotechnic composition that
produces color and sparks upon ignition. The paper at one end of the tube is
ignited to make the device function.
         (h)   Toy smoke device. Small plastic or paper item containing not
more than 100 grams of pyrotechnic composition that, upon ignition, produces
white or colored smoke as the primary effect.
      (2)   Aerial devices.
         (a)   Sky rockets and bottle rockets.  Cylindrical tube containing not
more than 20 grams of pyrotechnic composition. Sky rockets contain a wooden
stick for guidance and stability and rise into the air upon ignition. A burst
of color or noise or both is produced at the height of flight.
         (b)   Missile-type rocket. A device similar to a sky rocket in size,
composition, and effect that uses fins rather than a stick for guidance and
stability.
         (c)   Helicopter, aerial spinner. A tube containing up to 20 grams of
pyrotechnic composition. A propeller or blade is attached, which, upon
ignition, lifts the rapidly spinning device into the air. A visible or audible
effect is produced at the height of flight.
         (d)   Roman candles. Heavy paper or cardboard tube containing up to 20
grams of pyrotechnic composition. Upon ignition, up to ten stars (pellets of
pressed pyrotechnic composition that burn with bright color) are individually
expelled at several second intervals.
         (e)   Mine, shell. Heavy cardboard or paper tube usually attached to a
wood or plastic base and containing up to 60 grams of total chemical
composition (lift charge, burst charge, and visible or audible effect
composition). Upon ignition, “stars,” components producing reports containing
up to 130 milligrams of explosive composition per report, or other devices are
propelled into the air. The term MINE refers to a device with no internal
components containing a bursting charge, and the term SHELL refers to a device
that propels a component that subsequently bursts open in the air. A mine or
shell device may contain more than one tube provided the tubes fire in sequence
upon ignition of one external fuse. The term CAKE refers to a dense-packed
collection of mine or shell tubes. Total chemical composition including lift
charges of any multiple tube devices may not exceed 200 grams. The maximum
quantity of lift charge in any one tube of a mine or shell device shall not
exceed 20 grams, and the maximum quantity of break or bursting charge in any
component shall not exceed 25% of the total weight of chemical composition in
the component. The tube remains on the ground.
         (f)   Aerial shell kit, reloadable tube. A package kit containing a
cardboard, high-density polyethylene (HDPE), or equivalent launching tube with
multiple-shot aerial shells. Each aerial shell is limited to a maximum of 60
grams of total chemical composition (lift charge, burst charge, and visible or
audible effect composition), and the maximum diameter of each shell shall not
exceed 1 3/4 inches. In addition, the maximum quantity of lift charge in any
shell shall not exceed 20 grams, and the maximum quantity of break or bursting
charge in any shell shall not exceed 25% of the total weight of chemical
composition in the shell. The total chemical composition of all the shells in a
kit, including lift charge, shall not exceed 400 grams. The user lowers a shell
into the launching tube, at the time of firing, with the fuse extending out of
the top of the tube. After the firing, the tube is then reloaded with another
shell for the next firing. All launching tubes shall be capable of firing twice
the number of shells in the kit without failure of the tube. Each package of
multiple-shot aerial shells must comply with all warning label requirements of
the Consumer Product Safety Commission.
      (3)   Audible ground devices.
         (a)   Firecrackers, salutes. Small paper-wrapped or cardboard tube
containing not more than 50 milligrams of pyrotechnic composition. Those used
in aerial devices may contain not more than 130 milligrams of explosive
composition per report. Upon ignition, noise and a flash of light is produced.
         (b)   Chaser. Small paper or cardboard tube that travels along the
ground upon ignition. A whistling effect, or other noise, is often produced.
The explosive composition used to create the noise may not exceed 50
milligrams.
(KRS 227.702)
   (C)   Items listed below are classified as NOVELTIES and TRICK NOISEMAKERS
and are not classified as consumer fireworks by the U.S. Department of
Transportation, and their transportation, storage, retail sale, possession,
sale, and use shall be allowed throughout the state at all times.
      (1)   Snake, glow worm. Pressed pellet of pyrotechnic composition that
produces a large, snake- like ash upon burning. The ash expands in length as
the pellet burns. These devices may not contain mercuric thiocyanate.
      (2)   Smoke device. Tube or sphere containing pyrotechnic composition
that, upon ignition, produces white or colored smoke as the primary effect.
      (3)   Wire sparkler. Wire coated with pyrotechnic composition that
produces a shower of sparks upon ignition. These items may not contain
magnesium and must not exceed 100 grams of composition per item. Devices
containing any chlorate or perchlorate salts may not exceed five grams of
composition per item.
      (4)   Trick noisemaker. Item that produces a small report intended to
surprise the user. These devices include:
         (a)   Party popper. Small plastic or paper item containing not more
than 16 milligrams of explosive composition that is friction sensitive. A
string protruding from the device is pulled to ignite it, expelling paper
streamers and producing a small report.
         (b)   Booby trap. Small tube with string protruding from both ends,
similar to a party popper in design. The ends of the string are pulled to
ignite the friction sensitive composition, producing a small report.
         (c)   Snapper. Small, paper-wrapped item containing a minute quantity
of explosive composition coated on small bits of sand. When dropped, the device
explodes producing a small report.
         (d)   Trick match. Kitchen or book match that has been coated with a
small quantity of explosive or pyrotechnic composition. Upon ignition of the
match a small report or a shower of sparks is produced.
         (e)   Cigarette load. Small wooden peg that has been coated with a
small quantity of explosive composition. Upon ignition of a cigarette
containing one of the pegs, a small report is produced.
         (f)   Auto burglar alarm. Tube which contains pyrotechnic composition
that produces a loud whistle or smoke, or both, when ignited. A small quantity
of explosive, not exceeding 50 milligrams may also be used to produce a small
report. A squib is used to ignite the device.
(KRS 227.704)
   (D)   As used in KRS 227.700 through 227.750, DISPLAY FIREWORKS means
pyrotechnic devices or large fireworks designed primarily to produce visible or
audible effects by combustion, deflagration or detonation. This term includes,
but is not limited to, firecrackers containing more than two grains (130
milligrams) of explosive composition, aerial shells containing more than 40
grams of pyrotechnic composition, and other display pieces which exceed the
limits for classification as consumer fireworks. Display fireworks are defined
by the Consumer Product Safety Commission in CPSC, 16 CFR Pts. 1500 and 1507,
and are classified as Class B explosives by the U.S. Department of
Transportation.
(KRS 227.706)
   (E)   Legality of items.
      (1)   Items described in division (B) above are legal for retail sale
provided all applicable federal and state requirements with respect thereto are
met.
      (2)   Items described in division (D) are not legal for retail sale but
are legal under permits granted pursuant to this chapter for the purposes
specified in this chapter for public displays and may be sold at wholesale as
provided in this chapter.
      (3)   Items described in division (C) are legal for retail sale provided
all applicable federal and state requirements with respect thereto are met.
(KRS 227.708)
   (F)   Age requirement.  No person or business shall give, offer for sale, or
sell any consumer fireworks listed in KRS 227.702 to any person under 18 years
of age.
(KRS 227.715)
§ 93.02 SALE OR USE PROHIBITED; EXCEPTION FOR PUBLIC DISPLAY.
   No person, firm, co-partnership or corporation shall offer for sale, expose
for sale, sell at retail, keep with intent to sell, possess, use, or explode,
any display fireworks, except as follows:
   (A)   (1)   The Chief of the Fire Department or other authorized city
official may grant permits for supervised public displays of fireworks by the
city, fair associations, amusement parks, and other organizations or groups of
individuals.
      (2)   Every display shall be handled by a competent display operator to
be approved by the public official by whom the permit is granted, and shall be
of such character, and so located, discharged or fired as in the opinion of the
official, after proper inspection, to not be hazardous to property or endanger
any person.
      (3)   COMPETENT DISPLAY OPERATOR shall be defined as the person with
overall responsibility for the operation and safety of a fireworks display. The
competent display operator shall have a Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms,
and Explosives (ATF) license and have participated as an assistant in firing at
least five public displays. A COMPETENT DISPLAY OPERATOR is also an employee
possessor. A permit under division (A)(1) shall be issued only to a competent
display operator holding an ATF license.
      (4)   At least one competent display operator shall be on site during
display set-up and firing. This complement display operator shall maintain a
copy of the permit application, as signed by the local authority having
jurisdiction as identified in this section, on site and at all times the
display is in place, and shall be presented on demand of the State Fire Marshal
or local Fire Chief. All public displays that require issuance of a permit
shall be conducted in accordance with the provisions of National Fire
Protection Association (NFPA) 1123 Code for Fireworks Display (adopted
edition).
      (5)   Permits shall be filed with the office of the State Fire Marshal at
least 15 days in advance of the date of the display. After this privilege shall
have been granted, sales, possession, use and distribution of fireworks for the
display shall be lawful for that purpose only. No permit granted under this
division shall be transferable. For the purpose of this section, PUBLIC DISPLAY
OF FIREWORKS shall include the use of pyrotechnic devices or pyrotechnic
materials before a proximate audience, whether indoors or outdoors.
      (6)   Any person remaining within the display area shall be identified as
licensed by the ATF, or an employee thereof, or be an assistant in training to
become a competent display operator. All persons remaining within the display
area shall be at least 18 years of age.
      (7)   The Commissioner of the Department of Housing, Buildings and
Construction with recommendation from the State Fire Marshal shall promulgate
administrative regulations in accordance with KRS Chapter 13A to administer the
provisions of this division. The regulations shall address the process by which
permits are issued and any other procedures that are reasonably necessary to
effectuate this division.
   (B)   The sale, at wholesale, of any display fireworks for permitted
displays by any resident manufacturer, wholesaler, dealer, or jobber, in
accordance with regulations of the U.S. Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and
Firearms, and Explosives if the sale is to a person holding a display permit as
outlined in division (A) of this section. The permit holder shall present the
permit along with other verifiable identification at the time of sale.
   (C)   The sale of display fireworks in accordance with a license issued by
the U.S. Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms, and Explosives.
   (D)   The sale, and use in emergency situations, of pyrotechnic signaling
devices and distress signals for marine, aviation, and highway use.
   (E)   The use of fuses and railway torpedoes by railroads.
   (F)   The sale and use of blank cartridges for use in a show or theater or
for signal or ceremonial purpose in athletics or sports.
   (G)   The use of any pyrotechnic device by military organizations.
   (H)   The use of fireworks for agricultural purposes under the direct
supervision of the U.S. Department of the Interior or any equivalent or local
agency.
   (I)   Nothing in this section shall prohibit a person, firm, co-partnership,
non-profit, or corporation from offering for sale, exposing for sale, selling
at retail, keeping with intent to sell, possessing or using consumer fireworks
as defined in KRS 227.702 and as permitted pursuant to KRS 227.715.
(KRS 227.710)
Penalty, see § 93.99
§ 93.03 CONSUMER FIREWORKS; RESTRICTIONS ON SALE.
   (A)   Except as provided in §
93.02, the consumer fireworks described in KRS 227.702 may be offered for sale,
sold at retail, or kept with the intent to sell, only if the requirements of
this section are met.
   (B)   Any person, firm, co-partnership, non-profit, or business intending to
sell consumer fireworks described in KRS 227.702(1) shall register annually
with the State Fire Marshal’s office in accordance with KRS 227.715, and
display its registration certificate in a conspicuous location at the site.
   (C)   Each site at which fireworks are offered for sale shall comply with
all applicable provisions of the International Building Code, with Kentucky
Amendments (adopted edition), and NFPA 1124 (National Fire Protection
Association) Code for the Manufacture, Transportation, Storage, and Retail
Sales of Fireworks and Pyrotechnic Articles (adopted addition).
   (D)   No person or business shall give, offer for sale, or sell any consumer
fireworks listed in §
93.01(B) to any person under 18 years of age.
   (E)   No person under 18 years of age may be employed by a fireworks
distribution facility, or manufacturing facility. No person under 18 years of
age shall sell consumer fireworks at a consumer fireworks retail sales facility
registered under KRS 227.715 unless the individual is supervised by a parent or
guardian.
(KRS 227.715(7) through (9))
Penalty, see § 93.99
§ 93.04 BOND OR LIABILITY INSURANCE REQUIREMENT.
   No permit shall be issued under §
93.02 unless the applicant shall give bond or evidence of liability insurance
deemed adequate by the official to whom application for the permit is made, in
a sum not less than $1,000,000. However, the appropriate city official or the
State Fire Marshal may require a larger amount if in their judgment the
situation requires it, conditioned for the payment of all damages which may be
caused thereby either to a person or to property by reason of the permitted
display, and arising from any acts of the licensee, his agents, employees or
subcontractors.
(KRS 227.720)
Penalty, see § 93.99
§ 93.05 EXEMPTED SALES AND USES.
   Nothing in this chapter shall prevent the retail sale and use of explosives
or signaling flares used in the course of ordinary business or industry, or
gold star producing sparklers, which contain no magnesium or chlorate, toy
snakes which contain no mercury, smoke novelties and party novelties, which
contain less than twenty-five hundredths of a grain of explosive mixture, or
shells or cartridges, used as ammunition in firearms, or blank cartridges for a
show or theater, or for signal or ceremonial purposes in athletics or sports,
or for use by military organizations, or the sale of any kind of fireworks
provided the same are to be shipped by the seller directly out of the state.
(KRS 227.730)
§ 93.06 DESTRUCTION OF FIREWORKS.
   (A)   The State Fire Marshal, or any fire department having jurisdiction
which has been deputized to act on behalf of the State Fire Marshal, shall
cause to be removed at the expense of the owner all stocks of fireworks which
are stored and held in violation of this chapter. After a period of 60 days,
the seized fireworks may be offered for sale by closed bid to a properly
certified fireworks wholesaler.
   (B)   After a period of 60 days, the seized fireworks may be offered for
sale by closed bid to a properly certified manufacturer, distributor, or
wholesaler. All seized fireworks or explosives with a Class 1.3G or “display”
designation shall require the notification of the U.S. Bureau of Alcohol,
Tobacco, Firearms, and Explosives. The State Fire Marshal shall provide the
owner or possessor a receipt containing the complete inventory of any fireworks
seized within five business days of the seizure.
   (C)   Before any seized fireworks may be disposed of:
      (1)   If the owner of the seized fireworks is known to the State Fire
Marshal, the State Fire Marshal shall give notice by registered mail or
personal service to the owner of the State Fire Marshal’s intention to dispose
of the fireworks. The notice shall inform the owner of the State Fire Marshal’s
intent. The State Fire Marshal shall conduct an administrative hearing in
accordance with KRS Chapter 13B concerning the disposal of fireworks; or
      (2)   If the identity of the owner of any seized fireworks is not known
to the State Fire Marshal, the State Fire Marshal shall cause to be published,
in a newspaper of general circulation in the county in which the seizure was
made, notice of the seizure, and of the State Fire Marshal’s intention to
dispose of the fireworks. The notice shall be published once each week for
three consecutive weeks. If no person claims ownership of the fireworks within
ten days of the date of the last publication, the State Fire Marshal may
proceed with disposal of the fireworks. If the owner does claim the fireworks
within ten days of the date of the last publication, a hearing as set out in
division (C)(1) shall be held.
   (D)   Nothing in KRS 227.700 to 227.750 shall restrict a local government
from enacting ordinances that affect the sale or use of fireworks within its
jurisdiction.
(KRS 227.750)
FIRE PREVENTION
§ 93.20 BLASTING PERMIT.
   No person shall cause a blast to occur within the city without making
application in writing beforehand, setting forth the exact nature of the
intended operation, and receiving a permit to blast from the authorized city
official. The authorized city official, before granting such permit may require
the applicant to provide a bond to indemnify the city and all other persons
against injury or damages which might result from the proposed blasting.
Penalty, see § 93.99
§ 93.21 STORAGE OF FLAMMABLES AND OTHER MATTER.
   (A)   All flammable or combustible materials shall be arranged and stored in
a manner which affords reasonable safety against the danger of fire.
   (B)   Waste paper, ashes, oil rags, waste rags, excelsior, or any material
of a similar hazardous nature shall not be accumulated in any cellar or any
other portion of any building of any kind. Proper fireproof receptacles shall
be provided for such hazardous materials.
   (C)   No matter shall be stored or arranged in a manner which impedes or
prevents access to or exit from any premises in case of fire.
Penalty, see § 93.99
§ 93.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating the provisions of §§
93.02 or
93.04, the regulations issued thereunder or any order issued thereunder, or who
knowingly induces another, directly or indirectly, to violate the provisions of
those sections, shall be fined not more than $1,000, or imprisoned for not more
than 30 days, or both.
(KRS 227.990(4))
   (B)   Any person who violates any other provision of this chapter shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be fined not more than $500.
CHAPTER 94: LITTERING
Section
   
94.01   Throwing litter from vehicle
   
94.02   Tracking foreign matter on streets
   
94.03   Hauling loose material
   
94.04   Sweeping litter into gutters
   
94.05   Litter on private property
 
   
94.99   Penalty
§ 94.01 THROWING LITTER FROM VEHICLE.
   No person while a driver or passenger in a vehicle shall throw or deposit
litter upon any street or other public place within the city or upon private
property.
Penalty, see § 94.99
§ 94.02 TRACKING FOREIGN MATTER ON STREETS.
   No person shall drive or move any vehicle or truck within the city, the
wheels or tires of which carry onto or deposit upon any street, alley, or other
public place, mud, dirt, sticky substances, litter, or foreign matter of any
kind.
Penalty, see § 94.99
§ 94.03 HAULING LOOSE MATERIAL.
   Every person hauling or causing to be hauled dirt, sand, gravel, cement,
fill dirt, or loose material of any kind in or upon any street, alley,
sidewalk, or other public place shall haul it, or cause it to be hauled in
vehicles provided with tight boxes or beds so constructed or loaded as to
prevent any of the contents from falling or being thrown, blown, or deposited
upon any street, alley, sidewalk, or other public place. Any materials which
fall from, or which are thrown, blown, or deposited from any vehicle upon any
street, alley, sidewalk, or other public place, shall be removed immediately by
the person in charge of the vehicle.
Penalty, see § 94.99
§ 94.04 SWEEPING LITTER INTO GUTTERS.
   No person shall sweep into or deposit in any gutter, street, or other public
place within the city the accumulation of litter from any building or lot or
from any public or private sidewalk or driveway. Persons owning or occupying
property shall keep the sidewalk in front of their premises free of litter.
Penalty, see § 94.99
§ 94.05 LITTER ON PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   (A)   No person shall throw or deposit litter on any occupied private
property within the city, whether owned by that person or not, except that the
owner or person in control of private property may maintain authorized private
receptacles for collection in such a manner that litter will be prevented from
being carried or deposited by the elements upon streets, sidewalks, or other
public places, or upon any private property.
   (B)   No person shall throw or deposit litter on any open or vacant private
property within the city whether owned by that person or not.
Penalty, see § 94.99
§ 94.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any of the provisions of this chapter shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and shall be fined not more than $500. Each day the violation is
committed or permitted to continue shall constitute a separate offense.
CHAPTER 95: CEMETERIES
Section
   
95.01   (Reserved)
   
95.02   Price for lots
§ 95.01 (RESERVED).
§ 95.02 PRICE FOR LOTS.
   The price of each lot in East End Cemetery is $500.
(Ord. 752, passed 11-5-91; Am. Ord. 17-12, passed 11-7-17; Am. Ord. 22-05,
passed 6-7-22)
CHAPTER 96: ABANDONED VEHICLES
Section
   
96.01   Definitions
   
96.02   Abandonment of vehicles
   
96.03   Leaving wrecked, non-operating vehicle on street
   
96.04   Disposition of wrecked or discarded vehicles
   
96.05   Impounding and disposition of wrecked, junked, discarded vehicles
§ 96.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PERSON. Any person, firm, partnership, association, corporation, company, or
organization of any kind.
   PROPERTY. Any real property within the city which is not a street or
highway.
   STREET OR HIGHWAY. The entire width between the boundary lines of every way
publicly maintained when any part thereof is open to the use of the public for
purposes of vehicular travel.
   VEHICLE. A machine propelled by power other than human power designed to
travel along the ground by use of wheels, treads, runners, or slides and
transport persons or property or pull machinery and shall include, without
limitation, automobile, truck, trailer, motorcycle, tractor, buggy, and wagon,
and shall include plural as well as singular.
(Ord. 594, passed 7-1-65)
§ 96.02 ABANDONMENT OF VEHICLES.
   No person shall abandon any vehicle within the city, and no person shall
leave any vehicle at any place within the city for such time and under such
circumstances as to cause such vehicle reasonably to appear to have been
abandoned.
(Ord. 594, passed 7-1-65)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 96.03 LEAVING WRECKED, NON-OPERATING VEHICLE ON STREET.
   No person shall leave any partially dismantled, non-operating, wrecked or
junked vehicle on any street or highway within the city.
(Ord. 594, passed 7-1-65)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 96.04 DISPOSITION OF WRECKED OR DISCARDED VEHICLES.
   No person in charge or control of any property within the city, whether as
owner, tenant, occupant, leasee, or otherwise, shall allow any partially
dismantled, non-operating, wrecked, junked, or discarded vehicle to remain on
private or public property longer than ten days, and no person shall leave any
such vehicle on public or private property within the city for a longer time
than ten days, except that this chapter shall not apply with regard to a
vehicle in an enclosed building, a vehicle on the premises of a business
enterprise operated in a lawful place and manner, when necessary to the
operation of such business enterprise, or a vehicle in an appropriate storage
place or depository maintained in a lawful place and manner by the city.
(Ord. 594, passed 7-1-65)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 96.05 IMPOUNDING AND DISPOSITION OF WRECKED, JUNKED, DISCARDED VEHICLES.
   The Chief of Police, or any member of his department designated by him is
hereby authorized to remove or have removed any vehicle left, stored or parked
in places within the city which reasonably appear to be in violation of this
chapter or lost, stolen or unmarked. The provisions of §§
72.20 through
72.22 shall apply to any vehicle impounded under the provisions of this
chapter.
(Ord. 594, passed 7-1-65)
Cross-reference:
   Impounding procedures, see §§
72.20 through
72.22
CHAPTER 97: TREES
Section
   
97.01   Definitions
   
97.02   City Tree Board
   
97.03   Street tree species to be planted
   
97.04   Distance from curb and sidewalk
   
97.05   Distance from street corners and fireplugs
   
97.06   Utilities
   
97.07   Public tree care
   
97.08   Tree topping
   
97.09   Removal of stumps and replacement of trees
   
97.10   Insurance required
   
97.11   Review by City Council
 
   
97.99   Penalty
§ 97.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BOARD. City Tree Board.
   CITY. City of Cadiz, Kentucky.
   PARK TREE. Any tree, shrub, bush, or other woody vegetation in public parks
having individual names and all areas owned by the city or to which the public
has free access as a park or cemetery.
   STREET TREE. Any tree, shrub, bush, or other woody vegetation on land lying
between property lines on either side of all streets, avenues, or ways within
the city.
(Ord. 12-05, passed 12-4-12)
§ 97.02 CITY TREE BOARD.
   (A)   Established. There is hereby created and established a City Tree
Board, which shall consist of five members who shall be appointed by the Mayor
and serve as a committee of Cadiz Renaissance on Main.
   (B)   Term of office. The term of the five persons to be appointed by the
Mayor shall be three years except that the term of two of the members appointed
to the first board shall be for only one year and the term of two members of
the first board shall be for two years. In the event that a vacancy shall occur
during the term of any member, his or her successor shall be appointed for the
unexpired portion of the term.
   (C)   Compensation. Members of the Board shall serve without compensation.
   (D)   Duties and responsibilities. It shall be the responsibility of the
Board to study, develop, update, and administer a written plan for the care of
trees and shrubs in parks, along streets, in cemeteries, and in other public
areas. It shall further be the responsibility of the Board to provide public
outreach on tree care and urban forest management.
   (E)   Operation. The Board shall make its own rules and regulations and keep
a journal of its proceedings. A majority of the members shall be a quorum for
the transaction of business.
(Ord. 12-05, passed 12-4-12)
§ 97.03 STREET TREE SPECIES TO BE PLANTED.
   The Board shall maintain a list of the official street tree species for the
city. The list shall identify each included species as either a small tree,
medium tree, or large tree. Species other than those included in the list may
be planted as street trees only with written permission of the Board.
(Ord. 12-05, passed 12-4-12)
§ 97.04 DISTANCE FROM CURB AND SIDEWALK.
   The distance trees may be planted from curbs or sidewalks will be in
accordance with the three species size classes listed in §
97.03 of this chapter, and no trees may be planted closer to any curb or
sidewalk than the following:
   (A)   Small tree: two feet.
   (B)   Medium tree: three feet.
   (C)   Large tree: four feet.
(Ord. 12-05, passed 12-4-12)
§ 97.05 DISTANCE FROM STREET CORNERS AND FIREPLUGS.
   (A)   No street tree shall be planted closer than 35 feet from any street
corner measured from the point of nearest intersecting curve or curve line.
   (B)   No street tree shall be planted closer than ten feet from any
fireplug.
(Ord. 12-05, passed 12-4-12)
§ 97.06 UTILITIES.
   No street trees other than those species classified as small trees pursuant
to §
97.03 of this chapter may be planted within ten feet of any overhead utility
wire or within five feet of any underground water line, sewer line,
transmission line, or other utility.
(Ord. 12-05, passed 12-4-12)
§ 97.07 PUBLIC TREE CARE.
   The city shall have the right to plant, prune, maintain, and remove trees,
plants, and shrubs within the lines of all streets, alleys, avenues, lanes,
squares, and public grounds as may be necessary to ensure public safety.
(Ord. 12-05, passed 12-4-12)
§ 97.08 TREE TOPPING.
   It shall be unlawful as a normal practice for any person, firm, or city
department to top any street tree, park tree, or other tree on public property.
TOPPING is defined as the severe cutting back of limbs to stubs larger than
three inches in diameter with the tree's crown to such a degree so as to remove
the normal canopy and disfigure the tree. Trees severely damaged by storms or
other causes or certain trees under utility wires or other obstructions where
other pruning practices are impractical may be exempted from this section at
the determination of the Board.
(Ord. 12-05, passed 12-4-12)
§ 97.09 REMOVAL OF STUMPS AND REPLACEMENT OF TREES.
   When the city removes a street tree or a park tree, the stump shall be
removed below the surface of the ground so that the top of the stump shall not
project above the surface of the ground, and the street tree or park tree shall
be replaced with an appropriate tree in cooperation with the Board.
(Ord. 12-05, passed 12-4-12)
§ 97.10 INSURANCE REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or firm to prune, treat, or remove
street trees or park trees without first filing with the city evidence of
possession of liability insurance in the minimum amounts of $50,000 for bodily
injury and $100,000 for property damage indemnifying the city and any person
injured or damaged from the person's or firm's activities associated with
pruning, treating, or removing street trees or park trees.
(Ord. 12-05, passed 12-4-12)
§ 97.11 REVIEW BY CITY COUNCIL.
   The City Council shall have the right to review the actions and decisions of
the Board. Any person may appeal any ruling or order of the Board to the City
Council, which may hear the matter and make final decision.
(Ord. 12-05, passed 12-4-12)
§ 97.99 PENALTY.
   The city shall be entitled to recover all costs and reasonable attorney's
fees incurred by the city in enforcing any provision of this chapter.
(Ord. 12-05, passed 12-4-12)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
Chapter
   
110.   GENERAL LICENSING PROVISIONS
   
111.   PEDDLERS, ITINERANT MERCHANTS, AND SOLICITORS
   
112.   PAWNBROKERS
   
113.   INSURANCE COMPANIES
   
114.   CABLE TV
   
115.   SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESSES
   
116.   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE CONTROL
CHAPTER 110: GENERAL LICENSING PROVISIONS
Section
Occupational License Taxes
   
110.01   Definitions
   
110.02   Business license tax
   
110.03   Payroll tax
   
110.04   Information to remain confidential
   
110.05   Use of business license tax and payroll tax
Licensing
   
110.20   Application for license
   
110.21   Standards; issuance of license
   
110.22   Reserved
   
110.23   License not transferable
   
110.24   License certificate to be displayed
   
110.25   Revocation or suspension
   
110.26   Appeal and review
   
110.27   Exemptions
 
   
110.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Bank franchise and local deposit tax, see §
35.07
OCCUPATIONAL LICENSE TAXES
§ 110.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUSINESS ENTITY. Each separate corporation, limited liability company,
business development corporation, partnership, limited partnership, registered
limited liability partnership, sole proprietorship, association, joint stock
company, receivership, trust, professional service organization, or other legal
entity through which business is conducted. BUSINESS ENTITY shall not include
funds, foundations, corporations, or associations organized and operated for
the exclusive and sole purpose of religious or charitable purposes.
   CITY. The City of Cadiz, Kentucky.
   COMPENSATION. Wages, salaries, commissions, or any other form of
remuneration paid or payable by an employer for services performed by an
employee, which are required to be reported for federal income tax purposes and
adjusted as follows:
      (1)   Include any amounts contributed by an employee to any retirement,
profit sharing, or deferred compensation plan, which are deferred for federal
income tax purposes under a salary reduction agreement or similar arrangement,
including, but not limited to, salary reduction arrangements under §§ 401(a),
401(k), 402(e), 403(a), 403(b), 408, 414(h), or 458 of the Internal Revenue
Code; and
      (2)   Include any amounts contributed by an employee to any welfare
benefit, fringe benefit, or other benefit plan made by salary reduction or
other payment method which permits employees to elect to reduce federal taxable
compensation under the Internal Revenue Code, including, but not limited to, §§
125 and 132 of the Internal Revenue Code.
   EMPLOYEE. Any person who renders services to another person or business
entity for compensation, including an officer of a corporation and any officer,
employee, or elected official of the United States, a state, or any political
subdivision of a state, or any agency or instrumentality of any one or more of
the above. A person classified as an independent contractor under the Internal
Revenue Code shall not be considered an EMPLOYEE.
   EMPLOYER. The person or entity for which an individual performs or performed
any service, of whatever nature, as the employee of such person or entity.
   GROSS RECEIPTS. All revenues or proceeds derived from the sale, lease, or
rental of goods, services, or property by a business entity reduced by the
following:
      (1)   Sales and excise taxes paid; and
      (2)   Returns and allowances.
   SALES REVENUE. Receipts from the sale, lease, or rental of goods, services,
or property.
   TAXABLE GROSS RECEIPTS.
      (1)   In case of a business entity having payroll or sales revenues both
within and without the city means gross receipts as defined above, as
apportioned under §
110.02.
      (2)   In case of a business entity having payroll or sales revenue only
in the city means gross receipts as defined above.
   TAXABLE YEAR. The calendar year upon the basis of which gross receipts is
computed.
(Ord. 08-01, passed 7-1-08)
§ 110.02 BUSINESS LICENSE TAX.
   (A)   Business license required. Every business entity engaged in any
business in the city shall apply for and obtain a business license from the
city before the commencement of business. Licensees are required to notify the
city of any changes in address or any other changes that render the information
supplied to the city in the license application inaccurate.
   (B)   Business license tax required. The business license tax shall be based
on the following chart:
 
Type of Business Entity Business License Tax
Wholesale               .05% of gross receipts
Retail                  .1% of gross receipts
Professional            .3% of gross receipts
 
   The minimum business license tax shall be $50. The maximum business license
tax for each wholesale business entity shall be $625. The maximum business
license tax for each retail business entity shall be $1,250. The maximum
business license tax for each professional business entity shall be $2,500.
   (C)   Apportionment. This section applies only to business entities doing
business both inside and outside the city. Because the business license tax is
due only for business conducted inside the city limits, this section provides
the formulas to calculate what fraction of a business entity’s gross receipts
is subject to the business license tax. Forms are available at City Hall to
assist with these calculations.
      (1)   Gross receipts. Gross receipts shall be apportioned as follows:
         (a)   For business entities with both payroll and sales revenue in
more than one tax district, by multiplying the gross receipts by a fraction,
the numerator of which is the payroll factor, described in division (C)(2)
below, plus the sales factor, described in division (C)(3) below, and the
denominator of which is two; and
         (b)   For business entities with sales revenue in more than one tax
district, by multiplying the gross receipts by the sales factor as set forth in
division (C)(3) below.
      (2)   Payroll factor. The payroll factor is a fraction, the numerator of
which is the total amount paid or payable in the city during the taxable year
by the business entity for compensation, and the denominator of which is the
total compensation paid or payable by the business entity everywhere during the
taxable year. Compensation is paid or payable in the city based on the time the
individual’s service is performed within the city.
      (3)   Sales factor. The sales factor is a fraction, the numerator of
which is the total sales revenue of the business entity in the tax district
during the taxable year, and the denominator of which is the total sales
revenue of the business entity everywhere during the taxable year.
   (D)   Returns required.
      (1)   Every business entity shall submit a business license tax return
for the preceding taxable year by April 15 each year except returns made on the
basis of a fiscal year, which shall be made by the fifteenth day of the fourth
month following the close of the fiscal year. Blank forms for returns shall be
supplied by the city.
      (2)   Every business entity shall submit a copy of its federal income tax
return at the time of filing its return with the city. Whenever, in the opinion
of the city, it is necessary to examine the federal income tax return of any
business entity in order to audit the return, the city may compel the business
entity to produce for inspection a copy of all statements and schedules in
support thereof. The city may also require copies of reports of adjustments
made by the federal government.
      (3)   Every business entity shall, no later than 60 days following the
enactment of this subchapter, provide to the city a list of all vendors with
whom it conducts business within the city. Thereafter, every business entity
shall furnish with its business license tax return an updated list of all
vendors with whom it conducts business within the city.
(Ord. 08-01, passed 7-1-08; Am. Ord. 09-02, passed 3-3-09)
§ 110.03 PAYROLL TAX.
   (A)   Payroll tax required. The payroll tax shall be measured by 1.9% of all
wages and compensation paid or payable in the city for work done or services
performed or rendered in the city by an employee.
   (B)   Employer to withhold. Every employer making payments of compensation
to an employee shall deduct and withhold upon the payment of the compensation,
the payroll tax required by this subchapter. Amounts withheld shall be paid to
the city in accordance with division (C) below. If an employee’s employer does
not withhold the payroll tax required pursuant to this subchapter, the employee
shall pay over to the city in accordance with division (C) below the payroll
tax due.
   (C)   Returns required. Every employer required to deduct and withhold
payroll tax pursuant to this subchapter shall submit a payroll tax return on a
quarterly basis.
   (D)   Liability of employer for failure to withhold or pay payroll tax.
      (1)   Every employer who fails to withhold or pay to the city any sums of
payroll tax required by this subchapter to be withheld and paid shall be
personally and individually liable to the city for any sum or withheld or
required to be withheld.
      (2)   The city shall have a lien upon all the property of any employer
who fails to withhold or pay over to the city sums required to be withheld
under this subchapter. If the employer withholds but fails to pay to the city
the amounts withheld, the lien shall commence as of the date the amounts
withheld were required to be paid to the city. If the employer fails to
withhold, the lien shall commence at the time the liability of the employer is
assessed by the city.
   (E)   Reporting requirements.
      (1)   Every employer required to deduct and withhold payroll tax pursuant
to this subchapter shall annually, on or before February 28 of each year,
submit a detailed employee listing indicating the amount of compensation paid
to each employee.
      (2)   Every employer shall furnish each employee a statement on or before
January 31 of each year showing the amount of payroll tax deducted by the
employer from the employee’s compensation and paid to the city for the
preceding calendar year.
(Ord. 08-01, passed 7-1-08; Am .Ord. 22-12, passed 1-3-23)
§ 110.04 INFORMATION TO REMAIN CONFIDENTIAL.
   No present or former employee of the city shall intentionally and without
authorization inspect or divulge any information acquired by him or her of the
affairs of any person, or information regarding the tax schedules, returns, or
reports required to be filed with the city, or any information produced by a
hearing or investigation, insofar as the information may have to do with the
affairs of the person’s business. This prohibition does not extend to
information required in prosecutions for making false reports or returns for
taxation, or any other infraction of the tax laws, or in any way made a matter
of public record, nor does it preclude furnishing any taxpayer or the
taxpayer’s properly authorized agent with information respecting his or her own
return. Further, this prohibition does not preclude any employee of the city
from testifying in any court, or from introducing as evidence returns or
reports filed with the city, in an action for violation of a city tax law or in
any action challenging a city tax law.
(Ord. 08-01, passed 7-1-08)
§ 110.05 USE OF BUSINESS LICENSE TAX AND PAYROLL TAX.
   All money derived from the occupational license, designated business license
taxes and payroll taxes herein, shall be paid to the city and placed to the
credit of the city’s general revenue fund.
(Ord. 08-01, passed 7-1-08)
LICENSING
§ 110.20 APPLICATION FOR LICENSE.
   (A)   All original applications for licenses, unless otherwise specifically
provided, shall be made to the City Clerk-Treasurer in writing upon forms to be
furnished by him and shall contain:
      (1)   The name of the applicant and of each officer, partner, or business
associate;
      (2)   His present occupation and place of business;
      (3)   His place of residence for five years next preceding the date of
application;
      (4)   The nature and location of the intended business or enterprise;
      (5)   The period of time for which the license is desired; and
      (6)   A description of the merchandise to be sold, if for a vendor;
      (7)   Such other information concerning the applicant and his business as
may be reasonable and proper, having regard to the nature of the license
desired.
   (B)   Renewal of an annual license may be granted to a licensee in good
standing upon the original application, unless otherwise provided.
   (C)   With each original or renewal application, the applicant shall deposit
the fee required for the license requested.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful knowingly to make any false statement or
representation in the license application.
Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.21 STANDARDS; ISSUANCE OF LICENSE.
   (A)   Upon receipt of such application for a license, accompanied by the
proper fee, if approval by another officer or department is not required, the
City Clerk-Treasurer shall forthwith deposit the fee in the General Fund of the
city and issue to the applicant a proper license certificate signed by the City
Clerk-Treasurer and any other appropriate city official. If for any reason the
license is not issued, the license fee shall be returned to the applicant.
   (B)   Upon receipt of an application, an investigation of the applicant’s
business reputation and moral character shall be made.
   (C)   The application shall be approved unless such investigation discloses
tangible evidence that the conduct of the applicant’s business would pose a
substantial threat to the public health, safety, morals, or general welfare. In
particular, tangible evidence that the applicant has any of the following will
constitute valid reasons for disapproval of an application:
      (1)   Has been convicted of a crime of moral turpitude; or
      (2)   Has made willful misstatements in the application; or
      (3)   Has committed prior violations of ordinances pertaining to
itinerant merchants, peddlers, solicitors, and the like; or
      (4)   Has committed prior fraudulent acts; or
      (5)   Has a record of continual breaches of solicited contracts; or
      (6)   Has an unsatisfactory moral character.
§ 110.22 RESERVED.
§ 110.23 LICENSE NOT TRANSFERABLE.
   Every license shall be issued to a real party in interest in the enterprise
or business, and unless otherwise provided no license shall be assigned or
transferred.
Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.24 LICENSE CERTIFICATE TO BE DISPLAYED.
   Every licensee carrying on business at a fixed location shall keep posted in
a prominent place upon the licensed premises, the license certificate. Other
licensees shall carry their license certificates at all times and whenever
requested by any officer or citizen, shall exhibit the license.
Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.25 REVOCATION OR SUSPENSION.
   (A)   Any license may be revoked by the legislative body at any time for
conditions or considerations which, had they existed at the time of issuance,
would have been valid grounds for its denial; for any misrepresentation of a
material fact in the application discovered after issuance of the license; for
violation of any provision of this chapter or other law or ordinance relating
to the operation of the business or enterprise for which the license has been
issued; or upon conviction of a licensee for any federal, state, or municipal
law or ordinance involving moral turpitude.
   (B)   The revocation shall become effective upon notice served upon the
licensee or posted upon the premises affected.
   (C)   As a preliminary to revocation, the legislative body may issue an
order suspending the license, which shall become effective immediately upon
service of written notice to the licensee. This notice shall specify the reason
for suspension, and may provide conditions under which reinstatement of the
license may be obtained. Upon compliance with these conditions within the time
specified, the license may be restored.
§ 110.26 APPEAL AND REVIEW.
   In case any applicant has been denied a license, or if his license has been
revoked or suspended, the applicant or licensee as the case may be, shall
within three business days have the right to appeal to the legislative body
from the denial, revocation, or suspension. Notice of appeal shall be filed in
writing with the City Clerk-Treasurer who shall fix the time and place for a
hearing which shall be held not later than one week thereafter. The City Clerk-
Treasurer shall notify the Mayor and all members of the legislative body of the
time and place of the hearing not less than 24 hours in advance thereof. A
majority of the legislative body members shall constitute a quorum to hear the
appeal. The appellant may appear and be heard in person or by counsel. If,
after hearing, a majority of the members of the legislative body present at the
meeting declare in favor of the applicant, the license shall be issued or fully
reinstated as the case may be; otherwise the order appealed from shall become
final.
§ 110.27 EXEMPTIONS.
   The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to any business, occupation
or profession which is exempt from municipal licensing and/or license taxes
pursuant to state or federal law.
§ 110.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any business entity that fails to file a business license tax return
or pay the required business license tax by April 15 shall be subject to a
penalty equal to 5% of the business license tax due. The total penalty levied
pursuant to this section shall not be less than $25.
   (B)   Every employer who fails to file a payroll tax return or pay the
payroll tax on or before the quarterly due dates shall be subject to a penalty
in an amount equal to 5% of the payroll tax due for each delinquent quarterly
period. The total penalty levied pursuant to this section shall not be less
than $25. If an employer does not withhold payroll tax due pursuant to §§
110.01 through
110.05, and the employee is therefore responsible for payment of the payroll
tax, the employee shall be subject to the penalty described herein.
   (C)   In addition to the penalties prescribed in this section, an amount
equal to 12% per annum, simple interest shall accrue on any delinquent business
license tax or payroll tax. A fraction of a month is counted as an entire
month.
   (D)   The city shall be entitled to recover all costs and reasonable
attorney’s fees incurred by the city in enforcing any provision of §§
110.01 through
110.05
   (E)   Any person who violates the provisions of §
110.04 by intentionally inspecting confidential taxpayer information without
authorization shall be fined not more than $500 or imprisoned for not longer
than six months, or both. If such violator is a city employee, such employment
with the city shall be immediately terminated.
   (F)   Any person who violates the provisions of §
110.04 by divulging confidential taxpayer information shall be fined not more
than $1,000 or imprisoned for not longer than one year, or both. If such
violator is a city employee, such employment with the city shall be immediately
terminated.
(Ord. 08-01, passed 7-1-08)
CHAPTER 111: PEDDLERS, ITINERANT MERCHANTS, AND SOLICITORS
Section
   
111.01   Definitions
   
111.02   License requirement
   
111.03   Application procedure
   
111.04   Standards for issuance
   
111.05   Revocation procedure
   
111.06   Standards for revocation
   
111.07   Appeal procedure
   
111.08   Exhibition of identification
 
   
111.99   Penalty
§ 111.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUSINESS. The business carried on by any person who is an itinerant
merchant, peddler, or solicitor as defined in this section.
   GOODS. Merchandise of any description whatsoever, and includes, but is not
restricted to, wares and foodstuffs.
   ITINERANT MERCHANT. Any person, whether as owner, agent, or consignee, who
engages in a temporary business of selling goods within the city and who, in
the furtherance of such business, uses any building, structure, vehicle, or any
place within the city.
   PEDDLER.
      (1)   Any person who travels from place to place by any means carrying
goods for sale, or making sales, or making deliveries; or
      (2)   Any person who, without traveling from place to place, sells or
offers goods for sale from any public place within the city.
      (3)   A person who is a peddler is not an itinerant merchant.
   SOLICITOR. Any person who travels by any means from place to place, taking
or attempting to take orders for sale of goods to be delivered in the future or
for services to be performed in the future. A person who is a solicitor is not
a peddler.
§ 111.02 LICENSE REQUIREMENT.
   (A)   Any person who is an itinerant merchant, peddler, or solicitor shall
obtain a license before engaging in such activity within the city.
   (B)   The fee for the license required by this chapter shall be as set from
time to time by the legislative body.
   (C)   No license issued under this chapter shall be transferable.
   (D)   All licenses issued under this chapter shall expire 90 days after the
date of issuance thereof.
Penalty, see § 111.99
§ 111.03 APPLICATION PROCEDURE.
   (A)   All applicants for licenses required by this chapter shall file an
application with the City Clerk-Treasurer. This application shall be signed by
the applicant if an individual, or by all partners if a partnership, or by the
president if a corporation. The applicant may be requested to provide
information concerning the following items:
      (1)   The name and address of the applicant;
      (2)   (a)   The name of the individual having management authority or
supervision of the applicant's business during the time that it is proposed to
be carried on in the city;
         (b)   The local address of such individual;
         (c)   The permanent address of such individual;
         (d)   The capacity in which such individual will act;
      (3)   The name and address of the person, if any, for whose purpose the
business will be carried on, and, if a corporation, the state of incorporation;
      (4)   The time period or periods during which it is proposed to carry on
applicant's business;
      (5)   (a)   The nature, character, and quality of the goods or services
to be offered for sale or delivered;
         (b)   If goods, their invoice value and whether they are to be sold by
sample as well as from stock;
         (c)   If goods, where and by whom such goods are manufactured or
grown, and where such goods are at the time of application;
      (6)   The nature of the advertising proposed to be done for the business;
      (7)   Whether or not the applicant, or the individual identified in
division (A)(2)(a) above, or the person identified division (A)(3) has been
convicted of any crime or misdemeanor and, if so, the nature of each offense
and the penalty assessed for each offense.
   (B)   Applicants for peddler or solicitor licenses may be required to
provide further information concerning the following items, in addition to that
requested under division (A) above:
      (1)   A description of the applicant;
      (2)   A description of any vehicle proposed to be used in the business,
including its registration number, if any.
   (C)   All applicants for licenses required by this chapter shall attach to
their application the following:
      (1)   If required by the city, copies of all printed advertising proposed
to be used in connection with the applicant's business;
      (2)   If required by the city, credentials from the person, if any, for
which the applicant proposes to do business, authorizing the applicant to act
as such representative.
   (D)   Applicants who propose to handle foodstuffs shall also attach to their
application, in addition to any attachments required under division (C), a
statement from a licensed physician, dated not more than ten days prior to the
date of application, certifying the applicant to be free of contagious or
communicable disease.
Penalty, see § 111.99
§ 111.04 STANDARDS FOR ISSUANCE.
   (A)   Upon receipt of an application, an investigation of the applicant's
business reputation and moral character shall be made.
   (B)   The application shall be approved unless such investigation discloses
tangible evidence that the conduct of the applicant's business would pose a
substantial threat to the public health, safety, morals, or general welfare. In
particular, tangible evidence that the applicant has any of the following will
constitute valid reasons for disapproval of an application:
      (1)   Has been convicted of a crime of moral turpitude; or
      (2)   Has made willful misstatements in the application; or
      (3)   Has committed prior violations of ordinances pertaining to
itinerant merchants, peddlers, solicitors, and the like; or
      (4)   Has committed prior fraudulent acts; or
      (5)   Has a record of continual breaches of solicited contracts; or
      (6)   Has an unsatisfactory moral character.
§ 111.05 REVOCATION PROCEDURE.
   Any license or permit granted under this chapter may be revoked by the City
Clerk-Treasurer after notice and hearing, pursuant to the standards in §
111.06. Notice of hearing for revocation shall be given in writing, setting
forth specifically the grounds of the complaint and the time and place of the
hearing. Such notice shall be mailed to the licensee at his last known address,
at least ten days prior to the date set for the hearing.
§ 111.06 STANDARDS FOR REVOCATION.
   A license granted under this chapter may be revoked for any of the following
reasons:
   (A)   Any fraud or misrepresentation contained in the license application;
or
   (B)   Any fraud, misrepresentation, or false statement made in connection
with the business being conducted under the license; or
   (C)   Any violation of this chapter; or
   (D)   Conviction of the licensee of any felony, or conviction of the
licensee of any misdemeanor involving moral turpitude; or
   (E)   Conducting the business licensed in an unlawful manner or in such a
way as to constitute a menace to the health, safety, morals, or general welfare
of the public.
§ 111.07 APPEAL PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Any person aggrieved by a decision under §§
111.04 or
111.06 shall have the right to appeal to the legislative body. The appeal shall
be taken by filing with the legislative body, within 14 days after notice of
the decision has been mailed to such person's last known address, a written
statement setting forth the grounds for appeal. The legislative body shall set
the time and place for a hearing, and notice for such hearing shall be given to
such person in the same manner as provided in §
111.05.
   (B)   The order of the legislative body after the hearing shall be final.
§ 111.08 EXHIBITION OF IDENTIFICATION.
   (A)   Any license issued to an itinerant merchant under this chapter shall
be posted conspicuously in or at the place named therein. In the event more
than one place within the city shall used to conduct the business licensed,
separate licenses shall be issued for each place.
   (B)   The City Clerk-Treasurer shall issue a license to each peddler or
solicitor licensed under this chapter. The license shall contain the words
"Licensed Peddler" or "Licensed Solicitor," the expiration date of the license,
and the number of the license. The license shall be kept with the licensee
during such time as he is engaged in the business licensed.
Penalty, see § 111.99
§ 111.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and shall be fined not more than $500. Each day's violation shall
constitute a separate offense.
CHAPTER 112: PAWNBROKERS
Section
   
112.01   Definitions
   
112.02   Bond
   
112.03   Register to be kept; daily reports
   
112.04   Receipt to be given for each article; sale of article
   
112.05   Maximum interest, resale price
   
112.06   Receipt to be given for payment of loan
   
112.07   Prohibited activities
   
112.08   Enforcement
 
   
112.99   Penalty
§ 112.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PAWNBROKER. Any person who loans money on deposit of personal property;
deals in the purchase of personal property on condition of selling the property
back again at a stipulated price; makes a public display at his place of
business of the sign generally used by pawnbrokers to denote their business; or
who publicly exhibits a sign advertising money to loan on personal property or
deposit.
(KRS 226.010)
§ 112.02 BOND.
   Every person to whom a city license is granted to carry on the business of a
pawnbroker shall annually enter into bond to the city, with good and sufficient
surety to be approved by City Council, in the penal sum of $1000. This bond
shall be conditioned that he will observe the provisions of this chapter and
all ordinances and laws in force in the city not inconsistent with this
chapter.
(KRS 226.020)
§ 112.03 REGISTER TO BE KEPT; DAILY REPORTS.
   (A)   Every pawnbroker shall keep a register of all loans and purchases of
all articles by the pawnbroker from the general public. The register shall:
      (1)   Be reported to an online, Internet-based transaction recording
service accessible to law enforcement agencies;
      (2)   Show the dates and the amounts of all loans or purchases by the
pawnbroker from the general public, and the names and:
         (a)   A driver’s license number;
         (b)   Another state or federally issued picture identification card
number; or
         (c)   If the identification specified in division (A)(1) or (2) of
this section is not available, a Social Security number may be accepted;
of all persons who have left any property that has been pawned or sold;
      (3)   At all times be available to the inspection of any law enforcement
officer of this state when in the discharge of his or her official duty; and
      (4)   Contain a full description of all property purchased by the
pawnbroker from the general public or received on deposit as collateral or
security. When requested by law enforcement and pertaining to an investigation,
a photograph of the merchandise shall be made available to law enforcement if
the property is still in the possession of the pawnbroker. For purposes of this
division, FULL DESCRIPTION includes but is not limited to:
         (a)   Make;
         (b)   Model;
         (c)   Color;
         (d)   Size;
         (e)   Manufacturer;
         (f)   Vintage; and
         (g)   Distinguishing marks or characteristics.
   (B)   When secondhand merchandise is sold to a pawnbroker, the merchandise
shall be held for a minimum of 12 days before being resold.
   (C)   Prior to the release of property to a representative of law
enforcement, the law enforcement representative shall provide to the pawnbroker
a case report or other documentation that the item has been reported as stolen.
(KRS 226.040)
   (D)   Every pawnbroker shall, by 11:00 a.m. each day, make available to the
Chief of Police a true and correct written report of all goods received by him,
whether by pawn or purchase, during the 24 hours preceding each report. The
report shall describe the goods as accurately as practicable. The Chief of
Police shall furnish blanks for these reports.
(KRS 226.070)
Penalty, see § 112.99
§ 112.04 RECEIPT TO BE GIVEN FOR EACH ARTICLE; SALE OF ARTICLE.
   (A)   Every pawnbroker shall give a plain written or printed ticket for the
loan to the person negotiating or selling, and a plain written or printed
receipt of the articles that have been purchased or upon which money is loaned,
having on each a copy of the entries required by §
112.03(A) to be kept in his register. He shall not make any charge for the
ticket or receipt.
   (B)   A pawnbroker may sell any article pawned after the expiration of 60
days from the maturity of the loan. However, not less than ten days before
making the sale, the pawnbroker shall give notice to the person by whom the
article was pawned by mail addressed to the post office address of that person
as shown on the pawnbroker’s register, notifying such person that, unless he
redeems the article within ten days from the date of mailing of the notice, the
article will be sold.
(KRS 226.050)
Penalty, see § 112.99
§ 112.05 MAXIMUM INTEREST, RESALE PRICE.
   Any pawnbroker as defined in §
112.01, may, in loaning money on deposit of personal property, charge, contract
for, or receive interest at a rate not exceeding 2% per month on the unpaid
principal balance of the loan, and may charge, contract for, and receive a
reasonable fee, not to exceed one-fifth of the value of the loan per month, for
investigating the title, storing and insuring the property, closing the loan,
making daily reports to local law enforcement officers if required by §
112.03, and for other expenses, losses, and incidental costs associated with
servicing such loans. Further, this fee, when made and collected, shall not be
deemed as interest for any purpose of law. No pawnbroker shall directly or
indirectly charge, receive, or contract for any interest or consideration
greater than that allowed by this section.
(KRS 226.080)
Penalty, see § 112.99
§ 112.06 RECEIPT TO BE GIVEN FOR PAYMENT OF LOAN.
   Every pawnbroker, upon receiving any payment of money from a borrower, shall
give to that person a plain and complete receipt for such payment, specifying
separately the amount applied to principal and the amount applied to interest.
In a case where the pawnbroker has purchased personal property under an
agreement to sell it back at a stipulated price, the pawnbroker shall, on
receiving any payment of money from the person from whom the purchased, give
that person a receipt stating the original purchase price, the stipulated
resale price, and the amount received.
(KRS 226.090)
Penalty, see § 112.99
§ 112.07 PROHIBITED ACTIVITIES.
   No pawnbroker shall receive, by way of either pledge or pawn, any article
whatever from a minor at any time nor from any person between 8:00 p.m. and 7:
00 a.m.
(KRS 226.030)
Penalty, see § 112.99
§ 112.08 ENFORCEMENT.
   The Police Department shall enforce the provisions of this chapter unless
otherwise provided by KRS 226.100. However, county police, for the purpose of
locating stolen goods, may carry out the provisions of KRS 226.060 within the
city.
(KRS 226.100)
§ 112.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any pawnbroker or pawnbroker's clerk who violates any of the
provisions of this chapter for which no penalty is otherwise provided shall,
upon conviction, be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be fined not less than
$50 nor more than $500, and his license may be forfeited to the city.
(KRS 226.990(1))
   (B)   Any pawnbroker who violates any of the provisions of §
112.03(B) shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be fined not less than $20
nor more than $100.
(KRS 226.990(3))
CHAPTER 113: INSURANCE COMPANIES
Section
   
113.01   Imposition of license fee
   
113.02   Amount of fee for companies issuing life insurance
   
113.03   Amount of fee for companies issuing policies other than life insurance
   
113.04   Due date; interest
   
113.05   Written breakdown of collections
   
113.06   Insurance premium tax refund
§ 113.01 IMPOSITION OF LICENSE FEE.
   There is hereby imposed on each insurance company a license fee for the
privilege of engaging in the business of insurance within the corporate limits
of the city, beginning July 1, 1987, and thereafter on a fiscal year basis,
beginning July 1 and ending June 30.
(Ord. 704, passed 3-3-87; Am. Ord. 09-01, passed 2-3-09)
§ 113.02 AMOUNT OF FEE FOR COMPANIES ISSUING LIFE INSURANCE.
   The license fee imposed upon each insurance company which issues life
insurance policies on the lives of persons residing within the corporate limits
of the city shall be 8% of the first year’s premiums actually collected within
each calendar quarter beginning July 1, 1987.
(KRS 91A.080(2)) (Ord. 704, passed 3-3-87; Am. Ord. 09-01, passed 2-3-09; Am.
Ord. 22-13, passed 1-3-23)
§ 113.03 AMOUNT OF FEE FOR COMPANIES ISSUING POLICIES OTHER THAN LIFE
INSURANCE.
   (A)   The license fee imposed upon each insurance company which issues any
insurance policy which is not a life insurance policy shall be 8% of the
premiums actually collected within each calendar quarter on risks located
within the corporate limits of the city on those classes of business which such
company is authorized to transact, less all premiums returned to policy
holders.
   (B)   Any license fee or tax imposed upon premium receipts shall not include
premiums received for insuring employers against liability for personal
injuries to their employees, or death caused thereby, under the provisions of
the workers’ compensation act and shall not include premiums received on
policies of group health insurance provided for state employees under KRS
18A.225. This chapter does not apply to premiums for health insurance policies
issued to individuals or premiums for policies issued through Kentucky Access,
which was created in Subtitle 17B of KRS Chapter 304. This chapter does not
apply to policies for high deductible health plans as defined in 26 U.S.C. §
223(c)(2). This chapter does not apply to premiums paid to insurers of
municipal bonds, leases, or other debt instruments issued by or on behalf of a
city, county, charter county government, urban-county government, consolidated
local government, special district, nonprofit corporation, or other political
subdivision of the Commonwealth, but this exemption shall not apply if the
bonds, leases, or other debt instruments are issued for profit or on behalf of
for-profit or private organizations.
   (C)   Insurance companies which pay license fees or taxes pursuant to this
chapter shall credit city license fees or taxes against the same license fees
or taxes levied by the county, when the license fees or taxes are levied by the
county on or after July 13, 1990.
(KRS 91A.080(3), (10)) (Ord. 704, passed 3-3-87; Am. Ord. 09-01, passed 2-3-09;
Am. Ord. 22-13, passed 1-3-23)
§ 113.04 DUE DATE; INTEREST.
   All license fees imposed by this chapter shall be due no later than 30 days
after the end of each calendar quarter. License fees which are not paid on or
before the due date shall bear interest at the tax interest rate as defined in
KRS 131.010(6). In addition, there shall be a 10% penalty for a tax or fee not
paid within 30 days after the due date.
(KRS 91A.080(8), (9)) (Ord. 704, passed 3-3-87; Am. Ord. 09-01, passed 2-3-09)
§ 113.05 WRITTEN BREAKDOWN OF COLLECTIONS.
   Every insurance company subject to the license fees imposed by this chapter
shall annually, by March 31, furnish the city with a written breakdown of all
collections in the preceding calendar year for the following categories of
insurance:
   (A)   Casualty;
   (B)   Automobile;
   (C)   Inland marine;
   (D)   Fire and allied perils;
   (E)   Health; and
   (F)   Life.
(KRS 91A.080(8)) (Ord. 704, passed 3-3-87; Am. Ord. 09-01, passed 2-3-09)
§ 113.06 INSURANCE PREMIUM TAX REFUND.
   (A)   Procedure to request refund. No insurance company shall be entitled to
a refund for any insurance premium tax erroneously paid to the city unless the
request for refund be made to the city in writing within two years of the date
when said tax was paid. Each request for a refund shall be accompanied by the
following documentation:
      (1)   The name and address of each and every insured upon whom tax was
erroneously paid;
      (2)   The type of risk being insured against;
      (3)   The amount of the insurance premium charged by the company; and
      (4)   Such other information as may be reasonably requested by the city.
   (B)   Interest. The city shall not be liable for interest to any person or
entity requesting a refund pursuant to this section except as provided by state
law.
   (C)   Form of refund. Any refund made pursuant to this section shall be in
the form of a credit for future insurance premium tax due.
(Ord. 07-13, passed 10-2-07)
CHAPTER 114: CABLE TV
Section
Rate Regulation
   
114.01   Definitions
   
114.02   Initial review of basic cable rates
   
114.03   Review of request for increase in basic cable rates
   
114.04   Cable operator information
   
114.05   Automatic rate adjustments
   
114.06   Refunds
 
   
114.99   Penalty
RATE REGULATION
§ 114.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BASIC CABLE RATES. The monthly charge for a subscription to the basic
service tier and the associated equipment.
   BASIC SERVICE TIER. A separately available service tier to which
subscription is required for access to any other tier of service, including as
a minimum, but not limited to, all must-carry signals, all PEG channels, and
all domestic television signals other than superstations.
   BENCHMARK. A per channel rate of charge for cable service and associated
equipment which the FCC has determined is reasonable.
   CABLE ACT OF 1992. The Cable Television Consumer Protection and Competition
Act of 1992, contained generally in 47 USC 521 et seq.
   CABLE OPERATOR. Any person or group of persons:
      (1)   Who provide cable service over a cable system and directly or
through one or more affiliates owns a significant interest in such a cable
system; or
      (2)   Who otherwise controls or is responsible for, through any
arrangement, the management and operation of such a cable system.
   CHANNEL. A unit of cable service identified and selected by a channel number
or similar designation.
   COST OF SERVICE SHOWING. A filing in which the cable operator attempts to
show that the benchmark rate or the price cap is not sufficient to allow the
cable operator to fully recover the costs of providing the basic service tier
and to continue to attract capital.
   FCC. The Federal Communications Commission.
   INITIAL BASIC CABLE RATES. The rates that the cable operator is charging for
the basic service tier, including charges for associated equipment, at the time
the city notifies the cable operator of the city's qualification and intent to
regulate basic cable rates.
   MUST-CARRY SIGNAL. The signal of any local broadcast station (except
superstations) which is required to be carried on the basic service tier.
   PEG CHANNEL. The channel capacity designated for public, educational, or
governmental use, and facilities and equipment for the use of that channel
capacity.
   PRICE CAP. The ceiling set by the FCC on future increases in basic cable
rates regulated by the city, based on a formula using the GNP fixed weight
price index, reflecting general increases in the cost of doing business and
changes in overall inflation.
   REASONABLE RATE STANDARD. A per channel rate that is at, or below, the
benchmark or price cap level.
   SUPERSTATION. Any non-local broadcast signal secondarily transmitted by
satellite.
(Ord. 772, passed 3-1-94)
§ 114.02 INITIAL REVIEW OF BASIC CABLE RATES.
   (A)   Notice. Upon the adoption of Ordinance 772, and the certification of
the city by the FCC, the city shall immediately notify all cable operators in
the city, by certified mail, return receipt requested, that the city intends to
regulate subscriber rates charged for the basic service tier and associated
equipment as authorized by the Cable Act of 1992.
   (B)   Cable operator response. Within 30 days of receiving notice from the
city, a cable operator shall file with the city, its current rates for the
basic service tier and associated equipment and any supporting material
concerning the reasonableness of its rates.
   (C)   Expedited determination and public hearing.
      (1)   If the City Council is able to expeditiously determine that the
cable operator's rate for the basic service tier and associated equipment are
within the FCC's reasonable rate standard, as determined by the applicable
benchmark the City Council shall:
         (a)   Hold a public hearing at which interested persons may express
their views; and
         (b)   Act to approve the rates within 30 days from the date the cable
operator filed its basic rates with the city.
      (2)   If the City Council takes no action within 30 days from the date
the cable operator filed its basic cable rates with the city, the proposed
rates will continue in effect.
   (D)   Extended review period.
      (1)   If the City Council is unable to determine whether the rates in
issue are within the FCC's reasonable rate standard based on the material
before it, or if the cable operator submits a cost-of-service showing, the City
Council shall, within 30 days from the date the cable operator filed its basic
cable rates with the city and by adoption of a formal resolution, invoke the
following additional periods of time, as applicable, to make a final
determination:
         (a)   Ninety days if the City Council needs more time to ensure that a
rate is within the FCC's reasonable rate standard; or
         (b)   One-hundred fifty days if the cable operator has submitted a
cost-of-service showing seeking to justify a rate above the applicable
benchmark.
      (2)   If the City Council has not made a decision within the 90 or 150
day period, the City Council shall issue a brief written order at the end of
the period requesting the cable operator to keep accurate account of all
amounts received by reason of the proposed rate and on whose behalf the amounts
are paid.
   (E)   Public hearing. During the extended review period and before taking
action on the proposed rate, the City Council shall hold at least one public
hearing at which interested persons may express their views and record
objections.
   (F)   Objections.  An interested person who wishes to make an objection to
the proposed initial basic rate may request the city secretary to record the
objection during the public hearing or may submit the objection in writing
anytime before the decision resolution is adopted. In order for an objection to
be made part of the record, the objector must provide the city secretary with
the objector's name and address.
   (G)   Benchmark analysis. If a cable operator submits its current basic
cable rate schedule as being in compliance with the FCC's reasonable rate
standard, the City Council shall review the rates using the benchmark analysis
in accordance with the standard form authorized by the FCC. Based on the City
Council's findings, the initial basic cable rates shall be established as
follows:
      (1)   If the current basic cable rates are below the benchmark, those
rates shall become the initial basic cable rates and the cable operator's rates
will be capped at that level.
      (2)   If the current basic cable rates exceed the benchmark, the rates
shall be the greater of the cable operator's per channel rate on September 30,
1992, reduced by 10%, or the applicable benchmark, adjusted for inflation and
any change in the number of channels occurring between September 30, 1992 and
the initial date of regulation.
      (3)   If the current basic cable rates exceed the benchmark, but the
cable operator's per channel rate was below the benchmark on September 30,
1993, the initial basic cable rate shall be the benchmark, adjusted for
inflation.
   (H)   Cost-of-service showings. If a cable operator does not wish to reduce
the rates to the permitted level, the cable operator shall have the opportunity
to submit a cost-of-service showing in an attempt to justify initial basic
cable rates above the FCC's reasonable rate standard. The City Council will
review a cost-of-service submission pursuant to FCC standards for cost-of-
service review. The City Council may approve initial basic cable rates above
the benchmark if the cable operator makes the necessary showing; however, a
cost-of-service determination resulting in rates below the benchmark or below
the cable operator's September 30, 1992 rates minus 10% will prescribe the
cable operator's new rates.
   (I)   Decision.
      (1)   By formal resolution. After completion of its review of the cable
operator's proposed rates, the City Council shall adopt its decision by formal
resolution. The decision shall include one of the following:
         (a)   If the proposal is within the FCC's reasonable rate standard or
is justified by cost-of-service analysis, the City Council shall approve the
initial basic cable rates proposed by the cable operator; or
         (b)   If the proposal is not within the FCC's reasonable rate standard
and the cost-of-service analysis, if any, does not justify the proposed rates,
the City Council shall establish initial basic cable rates that are within the
FCC's reasonable rate standard or that are justified by a cost-of-service
analysis.
      (2)   Rollbacks and refunds. If the City Council determines that the
initial basic cable rates as submitted exceed the reasonable rate standard or
that the cable operator's cost-of-service showing justifies lower rates, the
City Council may order the rates reduced in accordance with divisions (G) or
(H) above, as applicable. In addition, the City Council may order the cable
operator to pay to subscribers, refunds of the excessive portion of the rates
with interest (computed at applicable rates
published by the Internal Revenue Service for tax refunds and additional tax
payments), retroactive to September 1, 1993. The method for paying any refund
at the interest rate will be in accordance with FCC regulations as directed in
the City Council's decision resolution.
      (3)   Statement of reasons for decision and public notice. If rates
proposed by a cable operator are disapproved in whole or in part, or if there
were objections made by other parties to the proposed rates, the resolution
must state the reasons for the decision and the City Council must give public
notice of its decision. Public notice will be given by advertisement once in
the official newspaper of the city.
   (J)   Appeal. The City Council's decision concerning rates for the basic
service tier or associated equipment, may be appealed to the FCC in accordance
with applicable federal regulations.
(Ord. 772, passed 3-1-94)
§ 114.03 REVIEW OF REQUEST FOR INCREASE IN BASIC CABLE RATES.
   (A)   Notice. A cable operator in the city who wishes to increase the rates
for the basic service tier or associated equipment shall file a request with
the city and notify all subscribers at least 30 days before the cable operator
desires the increase to take effect. This notice may not be given more often
than annually and not until at least one year after the determination of
initial basic cable rates.
   (B)   Expedited determination and public hearing.
      (1)   If the City Council is able to expeditiously determine that the
cable operator's rate increase request for basic cable service is within the
FCC's reasonable rate standard, as determined by the applicable price cap, the
City Council shall:
         (a)   Hold a public hearing at which interested persons may express
their views; and
         (b)   Act to approve the rate increase within 30 days from the date
the cable operator filed its request with the city.
      (2)   If the City Council takes no action within 30 days from the date
the cable operator filed its request with the city, the proposed rates will go
into effect.
   (C)   Extended review period.
      (1)   If the City Council is unable to determine whether the rate
increase is within the FCC's reasonable rate standard based on the material
before it, or the cable operator submits a cost-of-service showing, the City
Council shall, by adoption of formal resolution, invoke the following
additional periods of time, as applicable, to make a final determination:
         (a)   Ninety days if the City Council needs more time to ensure that
the request increase is within the FCC's reasonable rate standard as determined
by the applicable price cap; and
         (b)   One hundred fifty days if the cable operator has submitted a
cost-of-service showing seeking to justify a rate increase above the applicable
price cap.
      (2)   The proposed rate increase is tolled during the extended review
period.
      (3)   If the City Council has not made a decision within the 90- or 150-
day period, the City Council shall issue a brief written order at the end of
the period requesting the cable operator to keep accurate account of all
amounts received by reason of the proposed rate increase and on whose behalf
the amounts are paid.
   (D)   Public hearing. During the extended review period and before taking
action on the requested rate increase, the City Council shall hold at least one
public hearing at which interested persons may express their views and record
objections.
   (E)   objections. An interested person who wishes to make an objection to
the proposed rate increase may request the city secretary to record the
objection during the public hearing or may submit the objection in writing
anytime before the decision resolution is adopted. in order for an objection to
be made part of the record, the objector must provide the city secretary with
the objector's name and address.
   (F)   Delayed determination. If the City Council is unable to make a final
determination concerning a requested rate increase within the extended time
period, the cable operator may put the increase into effect, subject to
subsequent refund if the City Council later issues a decision.
   (G)   Price cap analysis. If a cable operator presents its request for a
rate increase as being in compliance with the FCC's price cap, the City Council
shall review the rate using the price cap analysis in accordance with the
standard form authorized by the FCC. Based on the City Council's findings, the
basic cable rates shall be established as follows:
      (1)   If the proposed basic cable rate increase is within the price cap
established by the FCC, the proposed rates shall become the new basic cable
rates.
      (2)   If the proposed basic cable rate increase exceeds the price cap
established by the FCC, the City Council shall disapprove the proposed rate
increase and order an increase that is in compliance with the price cap.
   (H)   Cost-of-service showings. If a cable operator submits a cost-of-
service showing in an attempt to justify a rate increase above the price cap,
the City Council will review the submission pursuant to the FCC standards for
cost-of-service review. The City Council may approve a rate increase above the
price cap if the cable operator makes the necessary showing; however, a cost-
of-service determination resulting in a rate below the price cap or below the
cable operator's then current rate will prescribe the cable operator's new
rate.
   (I)   Decision. The City Council's decision concerning the requested rate
increase, shall be adopted by formal resolution. If a rate increase proposed by
a cable operator is disapproved in whole or in part, or if objections were made
by other parties to the proposed rate increase, the resolution must state the
reasons for the decision. Objections may be made at the public hearing by a
person requesting the city secretary to record the objection or may be
submitted in writing at anytime before the decision resolution is adopted.
   (J)   Refunds.
      (1)   The City Council may order refunds of subscribers' rate payments
with interest if:
         (a)   The City Council was unable to make a decision within the
extended time period described in division (C) above; and
         (b)   The cable operator implemented the rate increase at the end of
the extended review period; and
         (c)   The City Council determines that the rate increase as submitted
exceeds the applicable price cap or that the cable operator failed to justify
the rate increase by a cost-of-service showing, and the City Council
disapproves any portion of the rate increase.
      (2)   The method for paying any refund and the interest rate will be in
accordance with regulations as directed in the City Council's decision
resolution.
   (K)   Appeal. The City Council's decision concerning rates for the basic
service tier or associated equipment, may be appealed to the FCC in accordance
with applicable federal regulations.
(Ord. 772, passed 3-1-94)
§ 114.04 CABLE OPERATOR INFORMATION.
   (A)   City may require.
      (1)   In those cases when the cable operator has submitted initial rates
or proposed an increase that exceeds the reasonable rate standard, the City
Council may require the cable operator to produce information in addition to
that submitted, including proprietary information, if needed to make a rate
determination. In these cases, a cable operator may request the information to
be kept confidential in accordance with this section.
      (2)   In cases where initial or proposed rates comply with the reasonable
rate standard the City Council may request additional information only in order
to document that the cable operator's rates are in accord with the standard.
   (B)   Request for confidentiality.
      (1)   A cable operator submitting information to the City Council may
request in writing that the information not be made routinely available for
public inspection. A copy of the request shall be attached to and cover all of
the information and all copies of the information to which it applies.
      (2)   If feasible, the information to which the request applies shall be
physically separated from any information to which the request does not apply.
If this is not feasible, the portion of the information to which the request
applies shall be identified.
      (3)   Each request shall contain a statement of the reasons for
withholding inspection and a statement of the facts upon which those reasons
are based.
      (4)   Casual requests which do not comply with the requirements of this
subsection, shall not be considered.
   (C)   City Council action. Requests which comply with the requirements of
division (B) above, will be acted upon by the City Council. The City Council
will grant the request of the cable operator presented by a preponderance of
the evidence, a case for nondisclosure consistent with applicable federal
regulations. If the request is granted, the ruling will be placed in a public
file in lieu of the information withheld from public inspection. If the request
does not present a case for nondisclosure and the City Council denies the
request, the City Council shall take one of the following actions:
      (1)   If the information has been submitted voluntarily without any
direction from the city, the cable operator may request that the city return
the information without considering it. Ordinarily, the city will comply with
this request. Only in the unusual instance that the public interest so
requires, will the information be made available for public inspection.
      (2)   If the information was required to be submitted by the City
Council, the information will be made available for public inspection.
   (D)   Appeal. If the City Council denies the request for confidentiality,
the cable operator may seek review of that decision from the FCC within five
working days of the City Council's decision, and the release of the information
will be stayed pending review.
(Ord. 772, passed 3-1-94)
§ 114.05 AUTOMATIC RATE ADJUSTMENTS.
   (A)   Annual inflation adjustment. In accordance with FCC regulations, the
cable operator may adjust its capped base per channel rate for the basic
service tier annually by the final GNP-PI index.
   (B)   Other external costs.
      (1)   The FCC regulations also allow the cable operator to increase its
rate for the basic service tier automatically to reflect certain external cost
factors to the extent that the increase in cost of those factors exceeds the
GNP-PI. These factors include retransmission consent fees, programming costs,
state and local taxes applicable to the provision of cable television serviced
and costs of franchise requirements. The total cost of an increase in a
franchise fee may be automatically added to the base per channel rate without
regard to its relation to the GNP-PI.
      (2)   For all categories of external costs other than retransmission
consent and franchise fees, the starting date for measuring changes in external
costs for which the basic service per channel rate may be adjusted will be the
date on which the basic service tier becomes subject to regulation or February
28, 1994, whichever occurs first. The permitted per channel charge may be
adjusted for costs of retransmission consent fees or changes in those fees
incurred before October 6, 1994.
   (C)   Notification and review. The cable operator shall notify the city at
least 30 days in advance of a rate increase based on automatic adjustment
items. The city shall review the increase to determine whether the item qualify
as automatic adjustments. If the city makes no objection within 30 days of
receiving notice of the increase, the increase may go into effect.
(Ord. 772, passed 3-1-94)
§ 114.06 REFUNDS.
   The city may order the cable operator to refund to subscribers a portion of
previously paid rates under the following circumstances:
   (A)   A portion of the previously paid rates have been determined to be in
excess of the permitted tier charge or above the actual cost of equipment; or
   (B)   The cable operator has failed to comply with a valid rate order issued
by the city.
(Ord. 772, passed 3-1-94)
§ 114.99 PENALTY.
   If the cable operator fails to comply with a rate decision or refund order,
the cable operator shall be subject to a fine of $500 for each day the cable
operator fails to comply.
(Ord. 772, passed 3-1-94)
CHAPTER 115: SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESSES
Section
   
115.01   Purpose and findings
   
115.02   Definitions
   
115.03   Classification
   
115.04   License required
   
115.05   Issuance of license
   
115.06   Fees
   
115.07   Inspection
   
115.08   Expiration of license
   
115.09   Suspension
   
115.10   Revocation
   
115.11   Transfer of license
   
115.12   Location
   
115.13   Additional regulations for adult motels
   
115.14   Regulations pertaining to exhibition of sexually explicit films,
videos or live entertainment in viewing rooms
   
115.15   Additional regulations for escort agencies
   
115.16   Additional regulations for nude model studios
   
115.17   Additional regulations concerning public nudity
   
115.18   Prohibition against children in a sexually oriented business
   
115.19   Hours of operation
   
115.20   Exemptions
   
115.21   Injunction
 
   
115.99   Penalty
§ 115.01 PURPOSE AND FINDINGS.
   (A)   Purpose. It is the purpose of this chapter to regulate sexually
oriented businesses in order to promote the health, safety, morals and general
welfare of the citizens of the city, and to establish reasonable and uniform
regulations thereon. The provisions of the chapter have neither the purpose nor
effect of imposing a limitation or restriction on the content of any
communicative materials, including sexually oriented materials. Similarly, it
is not the intent nor effect of this chapter to restrict or deny access by
adults to sexually oriented materials protected by the First Amendment, or to
deny access by the distributors and exhibitors of sexually oriented
entertainment to their intended market. Neither is it the intent nor effect of
this chapter to condone or legitimize the distribution of obscene material.
   (B)   Findings. Based on evidence concerning the adverse secondary effects
of adult uses on the community presented in hearings and in reports made
available to the City Council, and on findings incorporated in the cases of
City of Renton v Playtime Theatres, Inc., 475 U.S. 41 (1986), Young v American
Mini Theatres, 426 U.S. 50 (1976), and Barnes v Glen Theatre, Inc., 501 U.S.
560 (1991), and on studies in other communities including, but not limited to,
Phoenix, Arizona; Minneapolis, Minnesota; Houston, Texas; Indianapolis,
Indiana; Amarillo, Texas; Garden Grove, California; Los Angeles, California;
Whittier, California; Austin, Texas; Seattle, Washington; Oklahoma City,
Oklahoma; Cleveland, Ohio; and Beaumont, Texas; and also on findings from the
report of the Attorney General's Working Group on The Regulation of Sexually
Oriented Businesses, (June 6, 1989, State of Minnesota), the City Council
finds:
      (1)   Sexually oriented businesses lend themselves to ancillary unlawful
and unhealthy activities that are presently uncontrolled by the operators of
the establishments. Further, there is presently no mechanism to make the owners
of these establishments responsible for the activities that occur on their
premises.
      (2)   Certain employees of sexually oriented businesses defined in this
chapter as adult theaters and cabarets engage in higher incidence of certain
types of illicit sexual behavior than employees of other establishments.
      (3)   Sexual acts, including masturbation, and oral and anal sex, occur
at sexually oriented businesses, especially those which provide private or
semi-private booths or cubicles for viewing films, videos, or live sex shows.
      (4)   Offering and providing such space encourage such activities, which
creates unhealthy conditions.
      (5)   Persons frequent certain adult theaters, adult arcades, and other
sexually oriented businesses for the purpose of engaging in sex within the
premises of such sexually oriented businesses.
      (6)   At least 50 communicable diseases may be spread by activities
occurring in sexually oriented businesses, including, but not limited to,
syphilis, gonorrhea, human immunodeficiency virus infection (HIV-AIDS), genital
herpes, hepatitis B, Non A, Non B amebiasis, salmonella infections and shigella
infections.
      (7)   Since 1981 and to the present, there has been an increasing
cumulative number of reported cases of AIDS caused by the human
immunodeficiency virus (HIV) in the United States — 600 in 1982; 2,200 in 1983;
4,600 in 1984; 8,555 in 1985; and 253,448 through December 31, 1992.
      (8)   As of June 1981 through June 1997, there have been 2,401 reported
cases of AIDS in the State of Kentucky. This figure does not include those
diagnosed with HIV alone. Twenty-one people who were infected with the AIDS
virus were under the age of 13.
      (9)   Since 1981 and to the present, there have been an increasing
cumulative number of persons testing positive for the HIV antibody test in
Kentucky.
      (10)   The number of cases of early (less than one year) syphilis in the
United States reported annually has risen, with 33,613 cases reported in 1982
and 45,200 through November of 1990.
      (11)   The number of cases of gonorrhea in the United States reported
annually remains at a high level, with over one-half million cases being
reported in 1990.
      (12)   The Surgeon General of the United States in his report of October
22, 1986, has advised the American public that AIDS and HIV infection may be
transmitted through sexual contact, intravenous drug abuse, exposure to
infected blood and blood components, and from an infected mother to her
newborn.
      (13)   According to the best scientific evidence, AIDS and HIV infection,
as well as syphilis and gonorrhea, are principally transmitted by sexual acts.
      (14)   Sanitary conditions in some sexually oriented businesses are
unhealthy, in part, because the activities conducted there are unhealthy, and
in part, because of the unregulated nature of the activities and the failure of
the owners and the operators of the facilities to self-regulate those
activities and maintain those facilities.
      (15)   Numerous studies and reports have determined that semen is found
in the areas of sexually oriented businesses where persons view "adult"
oriented films.
      (16)   The findings noted in divisions (1) through (15) raise substantial
governmental concerns.
      (17)   Sexually oriented businesses have operational characteristics that
should be reasonably regulated in order to protect those substantial
governmental concerns.
      (18)   A reasonable licensing procedure is an appropriate mechanism to
place the burden of that reasonable regulation on the owners and the operators
of the sexually oriented businesses. Further, such a licensing procedure will
place a heretofore-nonexistent incentive on the operators to see that the
sexually oriented business is run in a manner consistent with the health,
safety and welfare of its patrons and employees, as well as the citizens of the
city. It is appropriate to require reasonable assurances that the licensee is
the actual operator of the sexually oriented business, fully in possession and
control of the premises and activities occurring therein.
      (19)   Removing doors on adult booths and requiring sufficient lighting
on premises with adult booths advance a substantial governmental interest in
curbing the illegal and unsanitary sexual activity occurring in adult theatres.
      (20)   Requiring licensees of sexually oriented businesses to keep
information regarding current employees and certain past employees will help
reduce the incidence of certain types of criminal behavior by facilitating the
identification of potential witnesses or suspects and by preventing minors from
working in such establishments.
      (21)   The disclosure of certain information by those persons ultimately
responsible for the day-to-day operation and maintenance of the sexually
oriented business, where such information is substantially related to the
significant governmental interest in the operation of such uses, will aid in
preventing the spread of sexually transmitted diseases.
      (22)   It is desirable in the prevention of the spread of communicable
diseases to obtain a limited amount of information regarding certain employees
who may engage in the conduct which this chapter is designed to prevent or who
are likely to be witnesses to such activity.
      (23)   The fact that an applicant for an adult use license has been
convicted of a sexually related crime leads to the rational assumption that the
applicant may engage in that conduct in contravention of this chapter.
      (24)   The barring of such individuals from the management of adult uses
for a period of years serves as a deterrent to and prevents conduct which leads
to the transmission of sexually transmitted diseases.
      (25)   The general welfare, health, morals and safety of the citizens of
the city will be promoted by the enactment of this chapter.
(Ord. 04-06, passed 7-6-04)
§ 115.02 DEFINITIONS.
   ADULT ARCADE. Any place to which the public is permitted or invited wherein
coin-operated, slug-operated, or for any form of consideration, or
electronically, or mechanically controlled still or motion picture machines,
projectors, video or laser disc players, or other image-producing devices are
maintained to show images to five or fewer persons per machine at any one time,
and where the images so displayed are distinguished or characterized by the
depicting or describing of "specified sexual activities" or "specified
anatomical areas."
   ADULT BOOKSTORE, ADULT NOVELTY STORE or ADULT VIDEO STORE. A commercial
establishment which, as one of its principal purposes, offers for sale or
rental for any form of consideration any one or more of the following:
      (1)   Books, magazines, periodicals or other printed matter, or
photographs, films, motion pictures, video cassettes or video reproductions,
slides, or other visual representations which are characterized by the
depiction or description of "specified sexual activities" or "specified
anatomical areas"; or
      (2)   Instruments, devices, or paraphernalia which are designed for use
in connection with "specified sexual activities."
   ADULT CABARET. A nightclub, bar, restaurant, or similar commercial
establishment which regularly features:
      (1)   Persons who appear in a state of nudity or semi-nude; or
      (2)   Live performances which are characterized by the exposure of
"specified anatomical areas" or by "specified sexual activities"; or
      (3)   Films, motion pictures, video cassettes, slides or other
photographic reproductions which are characterized by the depiction or
description of "specified sexual activities" or "specified anatomical areas."
   ADULT MOTEL. A hotel, motel or similar commercial establishment which:
      (1)   Offers accommodations to the public for any form of consideration;
provides patrons with closed-circuit television transmissions, films, motion
pictures, video cassettes, slides, or other photographic reproductions which
are characterized by the depiction or description of "specified sexual
activities" or "specified anatomical areas" and has a sign visible from the
public right-of-way which advertised the availability of this adult type of
photographic reproductions; and
      (2)   Offers a sleeping room for rent for a period of time that is less
than ten hours; or
      (3)   Allows a tenant or occupant of a sleeping room to sub-rent the room
for a period of time that is less than ten hours.
   ADULT MOTION PICTURE THEATER. A commercial establishment where, for any form
of consideration, films, motion pictures, video cassettes, slides, or similar
photographic reproductions are regularly shown which are characterized by the
depiction or description of "specified sexual activities" or "specified
anatomical areas."
   ADULT THEATER. A theater, concert hall, auditorium, or similar commercial
establishment, which regularly features persons who appear in a state of nudity
or semi-nude, or live performances which are characterized by the exposure of
"specified anatomical areas" or by "specified sexual activities."
   EMPLOYEE. A person who performs any service on the premises of a sexually
oriented business on a full-time, part-time or contract basis, whether or not
the person is denominated an employee, independent contractor, agent or
otherwise and whether or not said person is paid a salary, wage or other
compensation by the operator of said businesses. Employee does not include a
person exclusively on the premises for repair or maintenance of the premises or
equipment on the premises, or for the delivery of goods to the premises.
   ESCORT. A person who, for consideration, agrees or offers to act as a
companion, guide, or date for another person, or who agrees or offers to
privately model lingerie or to privately perform a striptease for another
person.
   ESCORT AGENCY. A person or business association who furnishes, offers to
furnish, or advertises to furnish escorts as one of its primary business
purposes for a fee, tip, or other consideration.
   ESTABLISHMENT. Includes any of the following:
      (1)   The opening or commencement of any sexually oriented business as a
new business;
      (2)   The conversion of an existing business, whether or not a sexually
oriented business, to any sexually oriented business;
      (3)   The addition of any sexually oriented business to any other
existing sexually oriented business; or
      (4)   The relocation of any such sexually oriented business.
   LICENSEE. A person in whose name a license to operate a sexually oriented
business has been issued, as well as the individual listed as an applicant on
the application for a license; and in the case of an employee, a person in
whose name a license has been issued authorizing employment in a sexually
oriented business.
   PRINCIPAL USE. A substantial or significant use. Evidence that an
establishment maintains more than 10% of its stock in trade in material
distinguished or characterized by an emphasis in sexual activities; or that it
devotes more than 15% of its floor space which is open to either the public
generally or to members of the public other than minors or more than a total of
160 square feet to the display of material distinguished or characterized by
emphasis on sexual activities; or that it provides entertainment, either live
or on film or video tape, and that said entertainment more than 10% of the time
is distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on sexual activities; or that
it advertises in a manner visible from the outside of the business premises the
availability of material or entertainment distinguished or characterized by an
emphasis on sexual activities shall establish that the establishment is
engaging in an adult entertainment activity as a principal use.
   NUDE MODEL STUDIO. Any place where a person who appears semi-nude, in a
state of nudity, or who displays "specified anatomical areas" and is provided
to be observed, sketched, drawn, painted, sculptured, photographed, or
similarly depicted by other persons who pay money or any form of consideration.
Nude Model Studio shall not include a proprietary school licensed by the State
of Kentucky or a college, junior college or university supported entirely or in
part by public taxation; a private college or university which maintains and
operates educational programs in which credits are transferable to a college,
junior college, or university supported entirely or partly by taxation; or in a
structure:
      (1)   That has no sign visible from the exterior of the structure and no
other advertising that indicates a nude or semi-nude person is available for
viewing; and
      (2)   Where in order to participate in a class a student must enroll at
least three days in advance of the class; and
      (3)   Where no more than one nude or semi-nude model is on the premises
at any one time.
   NUDITY or a STATE OF NUDITY. The showing of the human male or female
genitals, pubic area, vulva, anus, anal cleft or cleavage with less than a
fully opaque covering, the showing of the female breast with less than a fully
opaque covering of any part of the nipple, or the showing of the covered male
genitals in a discernibly turgid state.
   PERSON. An individual, proprietorship, partnership, corporation,
association, or other legal entity.
   SEMI-NUDE or in a SEMI-NUDE CONDITION. The showing of the female breast
below a horizontal line across the top of the areola at its highest point or
the showing of the male or female buttocks. This definition shall include the
entire lower portion of the human female breast, but shall not include any
portion of the cleavage of the human female breast, exhibited by a dress,
blouse, skirt, leotard, bathing suit, or other wearing apparel provided the
areola is not exposed in whole or in part.
   SEXUAL ENCOUNTER CENTER. A business or commercial enterprise that, as one of
its principal business purposes, offers for any form of consideration:
      (1)   Physical contact in the form of wrestling or tumbling between
persons of the opposite sex; or
      (2)   Activities between male and female persons and/or persons of the
same sex when one or more of the persons is in a state of nudity or semi-nude.
   SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESS. An adult arcade, adult bookstore, adult novelty
store, adult video store, adult cabaret, adult motel, adult motion picture
theater, escort agency, nude model studio, or sexual encounter center.
   SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL AREAS.
      (1)   The human male genitals in a discernibly turgid state, even if
completely and opaquely covered; or
      (2)   Less than completely and opaquely covered human genitals, pubic
region, buttocks or a female breast below a point immediately above the top of
the areola.
   SPECIFIED CRIMINAL ACTIVITY. Any of the following offenses:
      (1)   Prostitution or promotion of prostitution; dissemination of
obscenity; sale, distribution or display of harmful material to a minor; sexual
performance by a child; possession or distribution of child pornography; public
lewdness; indecent exposure; indecency with a child; engaging in organized
criminal activity; sexual assault; molestation of a child; gambling; or
distribution of a controlled substance; or any similar offenses to those
described above under the criminal or penal code of other states or countries;
      (2)   For which:
         (a)   Less than two years have elapsed since the date of conviction or
the date of release from confinement imposed for the conviction, whichever is
the later date, if the conviction is of a misdemeanor offense;
         (b)   Less than five years have elapsed since the date of conviction
or the date of release from confinement for the conviction, whichever is the
later date, if the conviction is of a felony offense; or
         (c)   Less than five years have elapsed since the date of the last
conviction or the date of release from confinement for the last conviction,
whichever is the later date, if the convictions are of two or more misdemeanor
offenses or combination of misdemeanor offenses occurring within any 24 month
period.
      (3)   The fact that a conviction is being appealed shall have no effect
on the disqualification of the applicant or a person residing with the
applicant.
   SPECIFIED SEXUAL ACTIVITIES. Any of the following:
      (1)   The fondling or other erotic touching of human genitals, pubic
region, buttocks, anus, or female breasts;
      (2)   Sex acts, normal or perverted, actual or simulated, including
intercourse, oral copulation, masturbation, or sodomy; or
      (3)   Excretory functions as part of or in connection with any of the
activities set forth in divisions (1) and (2) above.
   SUBSTANTIAL ENLARGEMENT OF A SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESS. The increase in
floor areas occupied by the business by more than 25%, as the floor areas exist
on the date this chapter takes effect.
   TRANSFER OF OWNERSHIP OR CONTROL OF A SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESS. Includes
any of the following:
      (1)   The sale, lease, or sublease of the business;
      (2)   The transfer of securities which constitute a controlling interest
in the business, whether by sale, exchange, or similar means; or
      (3)   The establishment of a trust, gift, or other similar legal device
which transfers the ownership or control of the business, except for transfer
by bequest or other operation of law upon the death of the person possessing
the ownership or control.
(Ord. 04-06, passed 7-6-04)
§ 115.03 CLASSIFICATION.
   Sexually oriented businesses are classified as follows:
   (A)   Adult arcades;
   (B)   Adult bookstores, adult novelty stores, or adult video stores;
   (C)   Adult cabarets;
   (D)   Adult motels;
   (E)   Adult motion picture theaters;
   (F)   Adult theaters;
   (G)   Escort agencies;
   (H)   Nude model studios; and
   (I)   Sexual encounter centers.
(Ord. 04-06, passed 7-6-04)
§ 115.04 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   (A)   It is unlawful:
      (1)   For any person to operate a sexually oriented business without a
valid sexually oriented business license issued by the city pursuant to this
chapter.
      (2)   For any person who operates a sexually oriented business to employ
a person to work for the sexually oriented business who is not licensed as a
sexually oriented business employee by the city pursuant to this chapter.
      (3)   For any person to obtain employment with a sexually oriented
business without having secured a sexually oriented business employee license
pursuant to this chapter.
   (B)   An application for a license must be made on a form provided by the
city.
   (C)   All applicants must be qualified according to the provisions of this
chapter. The application may request and the applicant shall submit to
registration, finger printing, and photographing by the Cadiz Police Department
prior to commencing his or her business operations or employment with such
establishment. This process enables the city to determine whether the applicant
meets the qualifications established in this chapter.
   (D)   If a person who wishes to operate a sexually oriented business is an
individual, the person must sign the application for a license as applicant. If
a person who wishes to operate a sexually oriented business is other than an
individual, each individual who has a 20% or greater interest in the business
must sign the application for a license as applicant. Each applicant must be
qualified under the following section and each applicant shall be considered a
licensee if a license is granted.
   (E)   The completed application for a sexually oriented business license
shall contain the following information and shall be accompanied by the
following documents:
      (1)   If the applicant is:
         (a)   An individual, the individual shall state his or her legal name
and any aliases and submit proof that he or she is 18 years of age;
         (b)   A partnership, the partnership shall state its complete name,
and the names of all partners, whether the partnership is general or limited,
and a copy of the partnership agreement, if any;
         (c)   A corporation, the corporation shall state its complete name,
the date of its incorporation, evidence that the corporation is in good
standing under the laws of its state of incorporation, the names and capacity
of all officers, directors and principal stockholders, and the name of the
registered corporate agent and the address of the registered office for service
of process.
      (2)   If the applicant intends to operate the sexually oriented business
under a name other than that of the applicant, he or she must state:
         (a)   The sexually oriented business's fictitious name; and
         (b)   Submit the required registration documents.
      (3)   Whether the applicant, or a person residing with the applicant, has
been convicted of a specified criminal activity as defined in this chapter, and
if so, the specified criminal activity involved, the date, place, and
jurisdiction of each.
      (4)   Whether the applicant, or a person residing with the applicant, has
had a license under this chapter or other similar sexually oriented business
regulations from another city denied, suspended or revoked, including the name
and location of the sexually oriented business for which the permit was denied,
suspended or revoked, as well as the date of denial, suspension or revocation,
and whether the applicant or a person residing with the applicant has been a
partner in a partnership or an officer, director or principal stockholder of a
corporation that is licensed under this chapter whose license has previously
been denied, suspended or revoked, including the name and location of the
sexually oriented business for which the permit was denied, suspended or
revoked as well as the date of denial, suspension or revocation.
      (5)   Whether the applicant or a person residing with the applicant holds
any other licenses under this chapter or other similar sexually oriented
business regulations from another city, and, if so, the names and locations of
such other licensed businesses.
      (6)   The single classification of license for which the applicant is
filing.
      (7)   The location of the proposed sexually oriented business, including
a legal description of the property, street address, and telephone number(s),
if any.
      (8)   The applicant's mailing address and residential address.
      (9)   A recent photograph and fingerprints of the applicants taken by the
Cadiz Police Department or their designated agency prior to the date of
commencing his or her business operations or employment with such
establishment. No person shall fail to register or be fingerprinted and
photographed prior to commencing such employment.
      (10)   The applicant's driver's license number, Social Security number,
and/or his or her state or federally issued tax identification number.
      (11)   A sketch or diagram showing the configuration of the premises,
including a statement of total floor space occupied by the business. The sketch
or diagram need not be professionally prepared, but it must be drawn to a
designated scale or drawn with marked dimensions of the interior of the
premises to an accuracy of plus or minus six inches.
      (12)   If an applicant wishes to operate a sexually oriented business,
other than an adult motel, which shall exhibit on the premises, in a viewing
room or booth of less than 150 square feet of floor space, films, video
cassettes, other video reproductions, or live entertainment which depict
specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas, then the applicant
shall comply with the application requirements set forth in §
115.13.
   (F)   Before any applicant may be issued a sexually oriented business
employee license, the applicant shall submit on a form to be provided by the
city the following information:
      (1)   The applicant's name or any other name (including "stage" names) or
aliases used by the individual;
      (2)   Age, date, and place of birth;
      (3)   Height, weight, hair and eye color;
      (4)   Present residence address and telephone number;
      (5)   Present business address and telephone number;
      (6)   Date, issuing state and number of driver's permit or other
identification card information;
      (7)   Social Security number; and
      (8)   Proof that the individual is at least 18 years of age.
   (G)   Attached to the application form for a sexually oriented business
employee license as provided above shall be the following:
      (1)   A color photograph of the applicant clearly showing the applicant's
face, and the applicant's fingerprints on a form provided by the Police
Department or Sheriff's Department. Cadiz Police Department will fingerprint,
photograph and provide the applicant with this information.
      (2)   A statement detailing the license history of the applicant for the
five years immediately preceding the date of the filing of the application,
including whether such applicant previously operated or is seeking to operate,
in this or any other county, city, state, or country or has ever had a license,
permit, or authorization to do business denied, revoked, or suspended, or had
any professional or vocational license or permit denied, revoked, or suspended.
In the event of any such denial, revocation, or suspension, a copy of any order
of denial, revocation, or suspension shall be attached to the application.
      (3)   A statement whether the applicant has been convicted of a specified
criminal activity as defined in this chapter and, if so, the specified criminal
activity involved, the date, place and jurisdiction of each.
(Ord. 04-06, passed 7-6-04)
§ 115.05 ISSUANCE OF LICENSE.
   (A)   Upon the filing of said application for a sexually oriented business
employee license, the city shall issue a temporary license to said applicant.
The application shall then be referred to the appropriate city departments for
an investigation to be made on such information as is contained on the
application. The application process shall be completed within 30 days from the
date the completed application is filed. After the investigation, the city
shall issue a license, unless it is determined by a preponderance of the
evidence that one or more of the following findings is true:
      (1)   The applicant has failed to provide information reasonably
necessary for issuance of the license or has falsely answered a question or
requires more information on the application form;
      (2)   The applicant is under the age of 18 years;
      (3)   The applicant has been convicted of a "specified criminal activity"
as defined in this chapter;
      (4)   The sexually oriented business employee license is to be used for
employment in a business prohibited by local or state law, statute, rule or
regulation, or prohibited by a particular provision of this chapter; or
      (5)   The applicant has had a sexually oriented business employee license
revoked by the city within two years of the date of the current application. If
the sexually oriented businesses employee license is denied, the temporary
license previously issued is immediately deemed null and void. Denial,
suspension, or revocation of a license issued pursuant to this section shall be
subject to appeal as set forth in §
115.10.
   (B)   A license granted pursuant to this section shall be subject to annual
renewal upon the written application of the applicant and a finding by the city
that the applicant has not been convicted of any specified criminal activity as
defined in this chapter or committed any act during the existence of the
previous license that would be grounds to deny the initial license application.
The renewal of the license shall be subject to the payment of the fee as set
forth in §
115.06.
   (C)   Within 30 days after a receipt of a completed sexually oriented
business application, the city shall approve or deny the issuance of a license
to an applicant. The city shall approve the issuance of a license to an
applicant unless it is determined by a preponderance of the evidence that one
or more of the following findings is true:
      (1)   An applicant is under 18 years of age.
      (2)   An applicant or a person with whom the applicant is residing is
overdue in payment to the city of taxes, fees, fines, or penalties assessed
against or imposed upon him or her in relation to any business.
      (3)   An applicant has failed to provide information reasonably necessary
for issuance of the license or has falsely answered a question or request for
information on the application form.
      (4)   An applicant or a person with whom the applicant is residing has
been denied a license by the city to operate a sexually oriented business
within the preceding 12 months or whose license to operate a sexually oriented
business has been revoked within the preceding 12 months.
      (5)   An applicant or a person with whom the applicant is residing has
been convicted of a specified criminal activity defined in this chapter.
      (6)    The premises to be used for the sexually oriented business have
not been approved by the health department, fire department, and the building
official as being in compliance with applicable laws and regulations.
      (7)   The license fee required by this chapter has not been paid.
      (8)   An applicant of the proposed establishment is in violation of or is
not in compliance with any of the provisions of this chapter.
   (D)   The license, if granted, shall state on its face the name of the
person or persons to whom it is granted, the expiration date, the address of
the sexually oriented business and the classification for which the license is
issued pursuant to §
115.03. All licenses shall be posted in a conspicuous place at or near the
entrance to the sexually oriented business so that they may be easily read at
any time.
   (E)   The health department, fire department, and the building official
shall complete their certification that the premises are in compliance prior to
issuance of a license by the city.
   (F)   A sexually oriented business license shall be issued for only one
classification as found in §
115.03.
(Ord. 04-06, passed 7-6-04)
§ 115.06 FEES.
   (A)   Every application for a sexually oriented business license (whether
for a new license or for a renewal of an existing license) shall be accompanied
by a $500 non-refundable application and investigation fee.
   (B)   In addition to the application and investigation fee required above,
every sexually oriented business that is granted a license (new or renewal)
shall pay to the city an annual non-refundable license fee of $5,000 within 30
days of license or renewal.
   (C)   Every application for a sexually oriented business employee license
(whether for a new license or for renewal of an existing license) shall be
accompanied by an annual $50 non-refundable application, investigation,
fingerprinting and license fee.
   (D) All license applications and fees shall be submitted to the Finance
Department of the city.
(Ord. 04-06, passed 7-6-04)
§ 115.07 INSPECTION.
   (A)   An applicant or licensee shall permit representatives of the Police
Department, Sheriff's Department, Health Department, Fire Department, Zoning
Department, or other city departments or agencies to inspect the premises of a
sexually oriented business for the purpose of insuring compliance with the law,
at any time it is occupied or open for business.
   (B)   A person who operates a sexually oriented business or his agent or
employee commits a violation if he or she refuses to permit such lawful
inspection of the premises at any time it is open for business.
(Ord. 04-06, passed 7-6-04)
§ 115.08 EXPIRATION OF LICENSE.
   (A)   Each license shall be effective as of May 1 of a given year and shall
expire annually on April 30 and may be renewed only by making application as
provided in §
115.04. Application for renewal shall be made at least 30 days before the
expiration date, and when made less than 30 days before the expiration date,
the expiration of the license will not be affected. There shall be no prorating
of any fees.
   (B)   When the city denies renewal of a license, the applicant shall not be
issued a license for one year from the date of denial. If, subsequent to
denial, the city finds that the basis for denial of the renewal license has
been corrected or abated, the applicant may be granted a license if at least 90
days have elapsed since the date the denial became final.
(Ord. 04-06, passed 7-6-04)
§ 115.09 SUSPENSION.
   The city shall suspend a license for a period not to exceed 30 days if it
determines that a licensee or an employee of a licensee has:
   (A)   Violated or is not in compliance with any section of this chapter.
   (B)   Refused to allow an inspection of the sexually oriented business
premises as authorized by this chapter.
(Ord. 04-06, passed 7-6-04)
§ 115.10 REVOCATION.
   (A)   The city shall revoke a license if a cause of suspension in §
115.09 occurs and the license has been suspended within the preceding 12
months.
   (B)   The city shall revoke a license if it determines that:
      (1)   A licensee gave false or misleading information in the material
submitted during the application process;
      (2)   A licensee has knowingly allowed possession, use;
      (3)   A licensee has knowingly allowed prostitution on the premises;
      (4)   A licensee knowingly operated the sexually oriented business during
a period of time when the licensee's license was suspended;
      (5)   Except in the case of an adult motel, a licensee has knowingly
allowed any act of sexual intercourse, sodomy, oral copulation, masturbation,
or other sex act to occur in or on the licensed premises; or
      (6)   A licensee is delinquent in payment to the city, county, or state
for any taxes or fees past due.
      (7)   Any person or entity presently holding a business license who is
found to be in violation of this chapter shall be subject to revocation of said
license.
   (C)   When the city revokes a license, the revocation shall continue for one
year, and the licensee shall not be issued a sexually oriented business license
for one year from the date the revocation became effective. If, subsequent to
revocation, the city finds that the basis for revocation has been corrected or
abated, the applicant may be granted a license if at least 90 days have elapsed
since the date the revocation became effective.
   (D)   If the city representative determines that grounds exist to deny,
suspend or revoke an adult entertainment license, the representative shall
notify the applicant or licensee in writing of the city's intent to deny,
suspend or revoke, including the grounds therefor. The notice shall be sent to
the applicant or licensee by certified mail at the address specified in the
application and a copy shall be sent to the City Clerk. Within five business
days of receipt of such notice, the applicant or licensee may provide to the
city representative, in writing, a response which shall include a statement of
reasons why the license should not be denied, suspended or revoked and may
include a request for a hearing. A copy shall be sent to the City Clerk. If a
response is not timely received by the city representative, the notice shall be
a final administrative act of denial, suspension or revocation. If a timely
response is received by the city representative, he or she shall, within three
business days of his or her receipt of the response, either withdraw the
written notice of intent to deny, suspend or revoke by giving notice of such
withdrawal to the applicant or licensee or schedule a hearing before the City
Council and shall give notice of such hearing to the applicant or licensee. A
copy thereof shall be provided to the City Clerk. The hearing shall be informal
in nature and shall be conducted within 20 business days of the city
representative's receipt of the applicant or licensee's response. The City
Council shall issue an oral decision at the conclusion of the hearing and shall
render a written decision within five business days after the completion of the
hearing and shall serve the applicant or licensee with a copy of the decision
by certified mail. The applicant or licensee may appeal a decision of the City
Council to the Trigg Circuit Court after receipt of the written notice of the
decision. If an applicant or licensee pursues a judicial appeal of a final
decision of the City Council, then that licensee or applicant may continue to
operate the adult entertainment establishment pending the completion of
judicial review.
   (E)   If any license holder is convicted of three or more violations within
the one-year license period then said license shall be revoked and licensee
shall be prohibited from applying again for a one-year period from the date of
revocation.
(Ord. 04-06, passed 7-6-04)
§ 115.11 TRANSFER OF LICENSE.
   A licensee shall not transfer his or her license to another, nor shall a
licensee operate a sexually oriented business under the authority of a license
at any place other than the address designated in the application.
(Ord. 04-06, passed 7-6-04)
§ 115.12 LOCATION.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate or cause to be operated
a sexually oriented business within 1,000 feet of;
      (1)   A church, or place of religious worship;
      (2)   Day care facility;
      (3)   School;
      (4)   Hospital;
      (5)   Public building;
      (6)   Public park;
      (7)   Residentially zoned property;
      (8)   Residentially used property; or
      (9)   Agricultural land use.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to cause or permit the operation,
establishment, substantial enlargement, or transfer of ownership or control of
a sexually oriented business within 2,500 feet of another sexually oriented
business.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person to cause or permit the operation,
establishment, or maintenance of more than one sexually oriented business in
the same building, structure, or portion thereof containing another sexually
oriented business.
   (D)   For the purposes of §
115.12(A), measurement shall be made in a straight line, without regard to the
intervening structures or objects, from the nearest portion of the building or
structure used as a part of the premises where a sexually oriented business is
conducted to the nearest property line of the premises of a church or place of
religious worship, day care facility, school, hospital, public building or
public park, residentially zoned property, residentially used property, or
agricultural land use.
   (E)   For the purpose of §
115.12(B), the distance between any two sexually oriented businesses shall be
measured in a straight line without regard to intervening structures or
objects, from the closest exterior wall of the structure in which each business
is located.
   (F)   All sexually oriented businesses must be located and operated in a B-
2 zone (General Business District) unless the business qualifies as a non-
conforming use mentioned in §
115.12(G). Operation of such businesses in any other zone is prohibited.
   (G)   Any sexually oriented business lawfully operating on the effective
date of this chapter that is in violation of this section shall be deemed a
non-conforming use.
      (1)   Such non-conforming uses shall not be increased, enlarged, extended
or altered, except that the use may be changed to a conforming use.
      (2)   If two or more sexually oriented businesses are within 1,000 feet
of one another and otherwise in a permissible location, the sexually oriented
business that was first established and continually operating at a particular
location is the conforming use and the later established business is non-
conforming.
      (3)   A sexually oriented business lawfully operating as a conforming use
is not rendered a non-conforming use by the location, subsequent to the grant
or renewal of the sexually oriented business license, of a church or place of
religious worship, day care facility, school, hospital, public building or
public park, residentially zoned property, residentially used property, or
agricultural land use within 1,000 feet of the sexually oriented business.
(Ord. 04-06, passed 7-6-04)
§ 115.13 ADDITIONAL REGULATIONS FOR ADULT MOTELS.
   (A)   Evidence that a sleeping room in a hotel, motel, or a similar
commercial establishment has been rented and vacated two or more times in a
period of time that is less than ten hours creates a rebuttable presumption
that the establishment is an adult motel as that term is defined in this
chapter.
   (B)   A person commits a violation if, as the person in control of a
sleeping room in a hotel, motel, or similar commercial establishment that does
not have a sexually oriented license, he rents or sub-rents a sleeping room to
a person and within ten hours from the time the room is rented, he rents or
sub-rents the same sleeping room again.
   (C)   For purposes of §
115.13(B), the terms "rent" or "sub-rent" mean the act of permitting a room to
be occupied for any form of consideration.
(Ord. 04-06, passed 7-6-04)
§ 115.14 REGULATIONS PERTAINING TO EXHIBITION OF SEXUALLY EXPLICIT FILMS,
VIDEOS OR LIVE ENTERTAINMENT IN VIEWING ROOMS.
   (A)   A person who operates or causes to be operated a sexually oriented
business, other than an adult motel, which exhibits on the premises in a
viewing room of less than 150 square feet of floor space a film, video
cassette, live entertainment, or other video reproduction which depicts
specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas shall comply with the
following requirements:
      (1)   Upon application for a sexually oriented license, the application
shall be accompanied by a diagram of the premises showing a plan thereof
specifying the location of one or more manager's stations and the location of
all overhead lighting fixtures and designating any portion of the premises in
which patrons will not be permitted. A manager's station may not exceed 32
square feet of floor area. The diagram shall also designate the place at which
the permit will be conspicuously posted, if granted. A professionally prepared
diagram in the nature of an engineer's or architect's blueprint shall not be
required; however, each diagram should be oriented to the north or to some
designated street or object and should be drawn to a designated scale or with
marked dimensions sufficient to show the various internal dimensions of all
areas of the interior of the premises to an accuracy of plus or minus six
inches. The city may waive the foregoing diagram for renewal applications if
the application adopts a diagram that was previously submitted and certifies
that the configuration of the premises has not been altered since it was
prepared.
      (2)   The application shall be sworn to be true and correct by the
applicant.
      (3)   No alteration in the configuration or location of a manager's
station may be made without the prior approval of the city.
      (4)   It is the duty of the licensee of the premises to ensure that at
least one licensed employee is on duty and situated in each manager's station
at all times that any patron is present inside the premises.
      (5)   The interior of the premises shall be configured in such a manner
that there is an unobstructed view from a manager's station of every area of
the premises to which any patron is permitted access for any purpose, excluding
restrooms. Restrooms may not contain video reproduction equipment. If the
premises has two or more manager's stations designated, then the interior of
the premises shall be configured in such a manner that there is an unobstructed
view of each area of the premises to which any patron is permitted access for
any purpose from at least one of the manager's stations. The view required in
this subdivision must be by direct line of sight from the manager's station.
      (6)   It shall be the duty of the licensee to ensure that the view area
specified in §
115.14(A)(5) remains unobstructed by any doors, curtains, partition, walls,
merchandise, display racks or other materials and, at all times, to ensure that
no patron is permitted access to any area of the premises which has been
designated as an area in which patrons will not be permitted in the application
filed pursuant to §
115.14(A)(1).
      (7)   No viewing room may be occupied by more than one person at any
time.
      (8)   The premises shall be equipped with overhead lighting fixtures of
sufficient intensity to illuminate every place to which patrons are permitted
access at an illumination of not less that five foot-candles as measured at the
foot level.
      (9)   It shall be the duty of the licensee to ensure that the
illumination described above is maintained at all times that any patron is
present in the premises.
      (10)   No licensee shall allow openings of any kind to exist between
viewing rooms or booths.
      (11)   No person shall make or attempt to make an opening of any kind
between viewing booths or rooms.
      (12)   The licensee shall, during each business day, regularly inspect
the walls between the viewing booths to determine if any openings or holes
exist.
      (13)   The licensee shall cause all floor coverings in viewing booths to
be nonporous, easily cleanable surfaces, with no rugs or carpeting.
      (14)   The licensee shall cause all wall surfaces and ceiling surfaces in
viewing booths to be constructed of, or permanently covered by, nonporous,
easily cleanable material. No wood, plywood, composition board or other porous
material shall be used within 48 inches of the floor.
      (15)   It shall be the duty of the licensee of the premises to ensure
than an employee who is 18 years of age or older shall be present at any and
all entrances to the premises. This employee shall verify that any individual
who enters the premises is 18 years of age or older.
   (B)   A person having a duty under §
115.14(A)(1) through (15) commits a violation if he knowingly fails to fulfill
that duty.
(Ord. 04-06, passed 7-6-04)
§ 115.15 ADDITIONAL REGULATIONS FOR ESCORT AGENCIES.
   (A)   An escort agency shall not employ any person under the age of 18
years.
   (B)   A person commits an offense if the person acts as an escort or agrees
to act as an escort for any person under the age of 18 years.
   (C)   No escort agency or employee of an escort agency shall offer or
provide sexual services for money or any other form of consideration.
(Ord. 04-06, passed 7-6-04)
§ 115.16 ADDITIONAL REGULATIONS FOR NUDE MODEL STUDIOS.
   (A)   A nude model studio shall not employ any person under the age of 18
years.
   (B)   A person under the age of 18 years commits an offense if the person
appears semi-nude or in a state of nudity in or on the premises of a nude model
studio. It is a defense to prosecution under this division if the person under
18 years was in a restroom not open to public view or visible to any other
person.
   (C)   A person commits an offense if the person appears in a state of
nudity, or knowingly allows another to appear in a state of nudity, in an area
of a nude model studio premises that can be viewed from the public right-of-
way.
   (D)   A nude model studio shall not place or permit a bed, sofa, or mattress
in any room on the premises, except that a sofa may be placed in a reception
room open to the public.
(Ord. 04-06, passed 7-6-04)
§ 115.17 ADDITIONAL REGULATIONS CONCERNING PUBLIC NUDITY.
   (A)   It shall be a violation for a person who knowingly and intentionally,
in a sexually oriented business, appears in a state of nudity or depicts
specified sexual activities.
   (B)   It shall be a violation for a person who knowingly or intentionally in
a sexually oriented business appears in a semi-nude condition unless the person
is an employee who, while semi-nude, shall be at least ten feet from any patron
or customer and on a stage at least two feet from the floor.
   (C)   It shall be a violation for an employee, while semi-nude in a sexually
oriented business, to solicit any pay or gratuity from any patron or customer
or for any patron or customer to pay or give any gratuity to any employee,
while said employee is semi-nude in a sexually oriented business.
   (D)   It shall be a violation for an employee, while seminude, to touch a
customer or the clothing of a customer.
(Ord. 04-06, passed 7-6-04)
§ 115.18 PROHIBITION AGAINST CHILDREN IN A SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESS.
   A person commits a violation if the person knowingly allows a person under
the age of 18 years on the premises of a sexually oriented business.
(Ord. 04-06, passed 7-6-04)
§ 115.19 HOURS OF OPERATION.
   No sexually oriented business, except for an adult motel, may remain open at
any time between the hours of 12 a.m. and 8:00 a.m. on weekdays and Saturdays
and at any time during the 24 hours of a Sunday.
(Ord. 04-06, passed 7-6-04)
§ 115.20 EXEMPTIONS.
   It is a defense to prosecution under §
115.16 that a person appearing in a state of nudity did so in a modeling class
operated:
   (A)   By a proprietary school licensed by the State of Kentucky, a college,
junior college, or university supported entirely or partly by taxation;
   (B)   By a private college or university which maintains and operates
educational programs in which credits are transferable to a college, junior
college, or university supported entirely or partly by taxation; or
   (C)   In a structure:
      (1)   Which has no sign visible from the exterior of the structure and no
other advertising that indicates a nude person is available for viewing; and
      (2)   Where, in order to participate in a class a student must enroll at
least three days in advance of the class; and
      (3)   Where no more than one nude model is on the premises at any one
time.
(Ord. 04-06, passed 7-6-04)
§ 115.21 INJUNCTION.
   A person who operates or causes to be operated a sexually oriented business
without a valid license is subject to a suit for injunction as well as
prosecution for criminal violations. Each day a sexually oriented business so
operates is a separate offense or violation.
(Ord. 04-06, passed 7-6-04)
§ 115.99 PENALTY.
   Violation of this chapter shall be deemed a violation, and upon conviction,
the violator shall be fined not less than $20 nor more than $500 plus court
costs. Any person violating this chapter may also be found guilty of a civil
offense. The civil fine shall be paid directly to the city. If the fine is not
paid within 30 days from the date of notification, then the city may recover
said fine in a civil action in a court of proper jurisdiction. The city may
also obtain injunctions or abatement orders to insure compliance with this
chapter or pursue administrative remedies when appropriate, including
injunctions and abatement proceedings. Each day a sexually oriented business so
operates is a separate offense or violation.
(Ord. 04-06, passed 7-6-04)
CHAPTER 116: ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE CONTROL
Section
General Provisions
   
116.001   Title
   
116.002   Definitions
   
116.003   Incorporation of state law
   
116.004   Scope of coverage
   
116.005   Deposit of fees, fines to general funds
   
116.006   Notice to State ABC Board of fees levied
Administration
   
116.015   Office of Alcoholic Beverage Control Administrator established
   
116.016   Oath; bond
   
116.017   City Alcoholic Beverage Control Administrator (CABC) to enforce
   
116.018   Functions: duties and powers
   
116.019   Administrator to have police power
   
116.020   Right to inspection
Licensing Regulations
   
116.030   Number of licenses
   
116.031   Distilled spirits and wine licenses; fees
   
116.032   Malt beverage licenses; fees
   
116.033   Reserved
   
116.034   Consumption of drink on premises; license required; fee
   
116.035   Nonquota Type 3 license; fee
   
116.036   Limited golf course license; fees
   
116.037   Reserved
   
116.038   Special Sunday sale licenses not authorized
   
116.039   License term; renewal
   
116.040   Pro-ration: refunds prohibited
   
116.041   Assignment, transfer, continuance, license replacement
   
116.042   Location of business restricted
   
116.043   Application: contents; emergency action
   
116.044   Approval or denial of application
   
116.045   Payment of fees
   
116.046   Posting of licenses; public record
   
116.047   License to become void if business dormant; license renewal
   
116.048   Causes for refusal to issue or renew license; suspension or
revocation of license
Sale of Alcoholic Beverages
   
116.060   License required for sale
   
116.061   Hours of sale
   
116.062   Exceptions to mandatory closing times; requirements
   
116.063   Confiscation authorized if violation occurs
   
116.064   Advertising restrictions
   
116.065   Retail sales to certain persons prohibited
   
116.066   Minors neither to possess or purchase alcoholic beverages nor to
misrepresent age; use of fraudulent identification
   
116.067   Licensee to display notice regarding sale to minors
   
116.068   Mandatory responsible beverage service training
Regulatory License Fee
   
116.080   Regulatory license fee imposed
   
116.081   Payment
   
116.082   Failure to pay
   
116.083   Interest on late payments
   
116.084   Adequate record keeping required
 
   
116.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 116.001 TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the Alcoholic Beverage
Control Ordinance of the City of Cadiz, Kentucky.
(Ord. 10-01, passed 6-1-10)
§ 116.002 DEFINITIONS.
   The definitions contained in KRS 241.010 are adopted as the meaning of such
word as used in this chapter.
(Ord. 10-01, passed 6-1-10)
§ 116.003 INCORPORATION OF STATE LAW.
   (A)   The provisions of KRS Chapters 241, 242, 243 and 244, as well as
amendments and supplements thereto, are hereby adopted as part of the alcoholic
beverage control law of the city, except as otherwise lawfully provided herein.
As used herein “state” means the Commonwealth of Kentucky, and “city” means the
City of Cadiz, Kentucky.
   (B)   Any violation of state law relating to the sale, production, storing,
or otherwise trafficking in alcoholic beverages shall also constitute a
violation of this chapter.
   (C)   No person shall sell, deal in, barter or exchange or possess for sale,
or for the purpose of evading any law or ordinance, give away any alcoholic
beverage in any quantity whatever, or cause the same to be done, without
complying with all of the provisions of this chapter and all state statutes and
regulations applicable thereto.
   (D)   All prohibitions, restrictions and regulations pertaining to alcoholic
beverages contained in KRS Chapter 244 shall apply to alcoholic beverages in
the city.
(Ord. 10-01, passed 6-1-10)
§ 116.004 SCOPE OF COVERAGE.
   (A)   This chapter shall be construed to apply to the traffic in malt
beverages, distilled spirits, and wine where the context permits such
applications. Unless the context otherwise admits or requires, the term
“alcoholic beverage” or “alcoholic beverages” shall mean and shall include
distilled spirits, wine, and malt beverages.
   (B)   Nothing contained in this chapter shall excuse or relieve the owner,
proprietor, employee or person in charge of any licensed premises in the city
where alcoholic beverages are sold from the restrictions, requirements and
penalties of any other ordinance or ordinances of the city or of any state
statutes or regulations.
(Ord. 10-01, passed 6-1-10)
§ 116.005 DEPOSIT OF FEES, FINES TO GENERAL FUNDS.
   All monies derived from license fees or from fines as provided in this
chapter shall be paid to the treasury of the city and become a part of the
general funds of the city.
(Ord. 10-01, passed 6-1-10)
§ 116.006 NOTICE TO STATE ABC BOARD OF FEES LEVIED.
   This chapter is and shall be subject to the provisions of KRS 243.610. The
City Clerk shall give notice to the State Alcoholic Beverage Board of any fees
or assessments levied under the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 10-01, passed 6-1-10)
ADMINISTRATION
§ 116.015 OFFICE OF ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE CONTROL ADMINISTRATOR ESTABLISHED. 
   (A)   Pursuant to KRS 241.160, the office of Cadiz Alcoholic Beverage
Control Administrator (CABC) is created.
   (B)   Pursuant to KRS 241.170, the City Alcoholic Beverage Control
Administrator (CABC) shall be appointed by the Mayor. The City Alcoholic
Beverage Control Administrator (CABC) shall serve at the pleasure of the Mayor.
(Ord. 10-01, passed 6-1-10)
§ 116.016 OATH; BOND.
   Prior to entering upon the duties of the position, the CABC shall take the
oath prescribed in Section 228 of the Constitution of the Commonwealth, and he
or she shall execute a bond with a good corporate surety in the penal sum of
not less than $1,000. Any city employee under the supervision of the CABC shall
execute a similar bond in such penal sum as the CABC may deem necessary.
(Ord. 10-01, passed 6-1-10)
§ 116.017 CITY ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE CONTROL ADMINISTRATOR (CABC) TO ENFORCE.
   The CABC shall have the power and authority to promulgate such regulations
as may be necessary to implement and/or administer this chapter.
(Ord. 10-01, passed 6-1-10)
§ 116.018 FUNCTIONS: DUTIES AND POWERS.
   (A)   The functions of the CABC shall be the same with respect to city
licenses and regulations as is the function of the Kentucky Alcoholic Beverage
Control Board (“Board”) with respect to state licenses and regulations, except
that no regulation of the CABC shall be less stringent than the state statutes
and regulations relating to alcoholic beverage control.
   (B)   The CABC shall have the same powers and duties with respect to
suspension and revocation for cause of City licenses as the State Alcoholic
Beverage Control Board has with respect to state licenses under KRS 241.060.
The CABC, on his or her own initiative, or on the complaint of any person, may
institute proceedings to revoke or suspend any license issued under this
chapter.
(Ord. 10-01, passed 6-1-10)
§ 116.019 ADMINISTRATOR TO HAVE POLICE POWER.
   The CABC and the CABC's Investigators shall have the full police powers of
peace officers, and their jurisdiction shall be coextensive with the boundaries
of the city. They may inspect any premises where alcoholic beverages are
manufactured, sold, stored or otherwise trafficked in, without first obtaining
a search warrant. They may confiscate any contraband property.
(Ord. 10-01, passed 6-1-10)
§ 116.020 RIGHT TO INSPECTION.
   The CABC shall have access at all reasonable times, for inspection to all
books and records required to be maintained by licensees under KRS 244.150 and
shall simultaneously receive copies of all reports submitted by licensees to
the State Alcoholic Beverage Control Board.
(Ord. 10-01, passed 6-1-10)
LICENSING REGULATIONS
§ 116.030 NUMBER OF LICENSES.
   The number of licenses issued in the city shall not exceed the number and
type as set forth in KRS Chapter 241, 242, 243 or 244 and all administrative
regulations promulgated pursuant thereto, as may be amended from time to time.
(Ord. 10-01, passed 6-1-10; Am. Ord. 13-12, passed 12-3-13)
§ 116.031 DISTILLED SPIRITS AND WINE LICENSES; FEES.
   (A)   The city shall have the power and authority to issue the following
kinds of distilled spirits and wine licenses upon proper application and the
payment of prescribed fee. This section shall not be construed to limit the
city’s authority under § 116.034 or any other provision of law to issue
licenses permitted by KRS 243.070.
 
License Type                                            Fee
Quota retail package license, per annum                 $600
Special temporary license, per event                    $50
Nonquota type 2 (“NQ2”) retail drink license, per an$600
 
   (B)   A special temporary license shall only be issued for the purposes
enumerated in KRS 243.260.
   (C)   A non quota type 2 retail license shall only be issued to a qualifying
entity as described in KRS 243.084.
(Ord. 10-01, passed 6-1-10; Am. Ord. 13-12, passed 12-3-13)
§ 116.032 MALT BEVERAGE LICENSES; FEES.
   The city shall have the power and authority to issue the following kinds of
malt beverage licenses upon proper application and the payment of prescribed
fee:
 
License Type                                             Fee
Nonquota retail malt beverage package license, per annum $200
 
(Ord. 10-01, passed 6-1-10; Am. Ord. 13-12, passed 12-3-13)
§ 116.033 RESERVED.
§ 116.034 CONSUMPTION OF DRINK ON PREMISES; LICENSE REQUIRED; FEE.
   (A)   The City Council, pursuant to KRS 243.072, has determined that
economic hardship exists within the city, as is evidenced by its high rate of
unemployment, slow rate of growth, loss due to plant closings, and a
significant number of vacancies in the Central Business District. The City
Council has further determined that the licensing authorization contained in
divisions (B) and (C) could aid economic growth. Further, the City Council
adopts this chapter as a comprehensive, regulatory ordinance covering, inter
alia, the licensing and operation of hotels, motels, inns, and restaurants for
the sale of alcoholic beverages by the drink for consumption on the premises.
   (B)   The city shall have the power and authority to issue licenses
authorizing hotels, motels, inns or restaurants to sell alcoholic beverages by
the drink for consumption on the premises. The licenses shall only be issued to
hotels, motels or inns containing not less than 50 sleeping units and having
dining facilities for not less than 100 persons, or bona fide restaurants open
to the general public having dining facilities for not less than 100 persons.
The term “bona fide restaurants” as used in this section shall mean, in
addition to having the minimum seating requirements set forth above,
restaurants which derive at least 50% of their gross revenue from the sale of
food for consumption on the premises. The fee for such a license shall be $600
per annum.
   (C)   In accordance with KRS 243.072(4), the CABC is authorized to issue any
license permitted by KRS 243.070, and the activity thereby licensed is
permitted in accordance with state law and city law.
   (D)   Unless a different license fee is provided for in this chapter, the
city license fee for any license authorized by KRS 243.070 shall be the maximum
license fee allowed to the city by KRS 243.070, as it may be amended from time
to time.
   (E)   All regulations which may be issued to administer KRS 243.072, this
section of this chapter, and any other provision of this chapter or state law,
shall conform to the requirements of KRS 241.190.
(Ord. 10-01, passed 6-1-10; Am. Ord. 13-12, passed 12-3-13)
§ 116.035 NONQUOTA TYPE 3 LICENSE; FEE.
   (A)   The city shall have the power and authority to issue a nonquota type 3
(“NQ3") retail drink license to any nonprofit social, fraternal, military or
political organization, club, or entity which for more than one year prior to
the date of application has maintained and operated a club room, club rooms, or
premises from which the general public is excluded. The license shall authorize
the licensee to exercise the privileges of an NQ2 retail drink licensee at the
designated premises if the general public is excluded.
   (B)   The fee for this category of license shall be:
 
License Type                               Fee
Nonquota type 3 (“NQ3”) license, per an   $300
 
(Ord. 10-01, passed 6-1-10; Am. Ord. 13-12, passed 12-3-13)
§ 116.036 LIMITED GOLF COURSE LICENSE; FEES.
   (A)   The city shall have the power and authority to issue limited golf
course licenses as authorized by KRS 243.070. The licenses shall include
distilled spirits, wine, and malt beverages.
   (B)   The fee for this category of license shall be:
 
License Type                           Fee
Limited golf course license, per annum $800
 
(Ord. 10-01, passed 6-1-10)
§ 116.037 RESERVED.
§ 116.038 SPECIAL SUNDAY SALE LICENSES NOT AUTHORIZED.
   This chapter shall not be construed to authorize city special Sunday sale
retail drink licenses.
(Ord. 10-01, passed 6-1-10)
§ 116.039 LICENSE TERM: RENEWAL.
   Licenses expiring in the year 2014 shall only be renewed for a term ending
January 31, 2015, and the fee for the renewals shall be 75% of the annual fee.
Thereafter, applications for renewal of licenses required by this chapter shall
be made for each license year, which, in order to coincide with the state
license year, shall begin the first day of February and extend through the last
day of January of the succeeding year. Applications for renewal are to be filed
with the CABC no less than 15 nor more than 45 days prior to expiration.
(Ord. 10-01, passed 6-1-10; Am. Ord. 13-12, passed 12-3-13)
§ 116.040 PRO-RATION: REFUNDS PROHIBITED.
   Pro-ration of fees shall be as provided for state licenses in KRS 243.090.
In the event any licensee shall cease doing business for any reasons, no refund
of the city license shall be granted to such licensee.
(Ord. 10-01, passed 6-1-10)
§ 116.041 ASSIGNMENT, TRANSFER, CONTINUANCE, LICENSE REPLACEMENT.
   (A)   The assignment, transfer, continuance, pledge or hypothecation of city
licenses shall be governed by the provisions of KRS 243.630, 243.640, 243.650
and 243.660. An approval by the state, under those statutes, shall be deemed an
approval by the city. Non-approval by the state shall be deemed non-approval by
the city. No city license may be sold or otherwise transferred (including
transfer to any premises) unless the proposed transfer shall have first
received the approval of the State Board, and thereafter the acknowledgment of
the CABC is given. A transfer fee of $25 shall be paid to the city.
   (B)   When a license has been lost or destroyed, the CABC may issue a
duplicate or replacement license upon payment of a fee of $25.
(Ord. 10-01, passed 6-1-10)
§ 116.042 LOCATION OF BUSINESS RESTRICTED.
   Licenses under this chapter shall not authorize the conduct of business in
any place other than that specifically described in the original State
application and license. Any additional buildings or rooms attached to licensed
premises and requiring separate service bars shall require a city supplemental
bar license.
(Ord. 10-01, passed 6-1-10)
§ 116.043 APPLICATION: CONTENTS; EMERGENCY ACTION.
   An applicant for a license under this chapter shall file with the CABC a
copy of such applicant's state license application containing the information
required by KRS 243.380 and 243.390. The city application shall include the
consent of the applicant permitting the CABC to inspect and search the licensed
premises at any reasonable time, to confiscate articles found on the premises
in violation of any ordinance, statute, or regulation, and to order an
emergency temporary closure of the premises if the public health, safety,
morals and welfare is threatened by one or more violations of any ordinance or
statute involving disturbance of the peace or public disorder. The temporary
closure shall remain in effect until review of the alleged violations by the
CABC, which review shall occur within 36 hours of the imposition of the
temporary closure.
(Ord. 10-01, passed 6-1-10)
§ 116.044 APPROVAL OR DENIAL OF APPLICATION.
   (A)   Upon review of the application, the CABC may approve the application
if the CABC determines that:
      (1)   The applicant has complied with all requirements of the State
Alcoholic Beverage Control Law, as well as all regulatory provisions of this
chapter.
      (2)   The location is one that can be approved, including but not limited
to the requirements of KRS 243.220;
      (3)   A license may be issued within the quota limits fixed by the State
Alcoholic Beverage Control Board; and
      (4)   There are no other causes for denial of the license.
   (B)   If the CABC has reasonable grounds to believe that an applicant has
violated any law, rule or regulation relating to alcoholic beverages, the CABC
may issue to the applicant a written order setting forth such violation and
requiring the applicant to show cause why the requested license should be
issued. The CABC shall have the right to order, and the applicant shall have
the right to request, an evidentiary hearing to examine the violation set forth
in the show cause order issued by the CABC. Any decision by the CABC on the
application shall be subject to appeal as provided by law.
   (C)   As prescribed by KRS 243.550, hearings upon appeals from orders of the
CABC or upon proceedings for revocation or suspension shall be held by the
board. The board may, at is discretion, hold the hearing in Frankfort, or in
the county where the licensed premises, or the premises to be licensed, are
located. Decisions shall be made and final orders entered only upon the vote of
a majority of the board. The hearings shall be conducted in accordance with the
provisions of KRS Chapter 13B.
   (D)   Pursuant to KRS 243.560, any final order of the board refusing,
revoking or suspending a license may be appealed from by the applicant or
licensee, and any final order of the board granting or refusing to revoke or
suspend a license may be appealed from by any citizen feeling himself
aggrieved.
(Ord. 10-01, passed 6-1-10; Am. Ord. 13-12, passed 12-3-13)
§ 116.045 PAYMENT OF FEES.
   Upon approval of the application by the CABC, the applicant shall pay to the
City Clerk the amount of the license fee provided in this chapter in the form
of a certified check, money order or cash. Payment shall be held on deposit by
the city pending state license approval and issuance of the city license by the
CABC.
(Ord. 10-01, passed 6-1-10)
§ 116.046 POSTING OF LICENSES; PUBLIC RECORD.
   Each city license shall be in substantially the same form prescribed by KRS
243.440 for state licenses, and shall be posted at the licensed premises in the
same manner prescribed by KRS 243.620 for state licenses. An exact duplicate or
facsimile of each city license shall remain in the CABC's office as part of the
public record.
(Ord. 10-01, passed 6-1-10)
§ 116.047 LICENSE TO BECOME VOID IF BUSINESS DORMANT; LICENSE RENEWAL.
   (A)   Under the provisions of the Kentucky Revised Statutes, all
administrative regulations promulgated pursuant to the provisions of the
Kentucky Revised Statutes, and this chapter, as they may be amended from time
to time, a quota system may exist for the number of licenses to sell alcoholic
beverages in the city. Therefore, it is necessary that a licensee actually
conduct the business, may suffer an interruption of business by situations not
under the licensee's control and various exceptions to this dormancy rule are
included in division (B).
   (B)   Any license under which no business is transacted during a period of
90 days shall become null and void. At the expiration of the 90-day period, the
license shall be surrendered to the CABC, except that any licensee who is
unable to continue in business at the licensed premises may apply to the State
Alcoholic Beverage Control Department, pursuant to 804 KAR 4:110, as amended
from time to time, to continue such license in dormancy. In the event a period
of dormancy is applied for or granted by the state, to the licensee, the
licensee shall immediately notify the CABC. Upon resumption of business or
transfer or assignment of the license, the licensee shall notify the CABC and a
fee shall be due and payable to the CABC for the period the licensee was in
dormancy in the same amount due had the license remained active for the same
period.
   (C)   Applications approved by the CABC and based on pending construction or
development on the premises shall be null and void after 90 days of the
commitment to issue a license if the applicant fails to proceed in an orderly
fashion to initiate construction or development on the premises involved.
Extensions may be granted by the CABC as he or she deems appropriate in
exercise of sound discretion based on facts and circumstances surrounding each
request.
   (D)   Applications for renewal of licenses and payment of the license fee
must be on file with the CABC at least 15 days, but not more than 45 days,
before the expiration of the licenses for the preceding license period, or the
license shall be cancelled. However, the licensee may file a written, verified
statement at least 15 days prior to the expiration date of the license, setting
forth facts justifying an extension. The CABC may then extend the time for
filing an application for renewal of the license for a reasonable length of
time within the exercise of his or her sound discretion. The licensee shall pay
the license fee from the expiration date of the former license or licenses and
payment shall be refunded to the licensee in the event that the license or
licenses are not renewed at or before the end of the extension period.
(Ord. 10-01, passed 6-1-10)
§ 116.048 CAUSES FOR REFUSAL TO ISSUE OR RENEW LICENSE; SUSPENSION OR
REVOCATION OF LICENSE.
   (A)   Causes for refusal to issue or renew a city license and for suspension
or revocation of a city license shall be the same as provided for state
licenses according to KRS 243.450, 243.500, as well as violation of any city
ordinance regarding alcoholic beverage licensing, sales, the administration of
licenses, or a licensee allowing conduct on the licensed premises which is
prohibited by this chapter.
   (B)   No license to sell alcoholic beverages shall be granted or renewed to
any person or other entity delinquent in the payment of any taxes or fees due
the city at the time of issuing the license; nor shall any license be granted
or renewed to sell upon any premises or property, owned and occupied by the
licensee, upon which there are any delinquent taxes or fees due the city. If a
licensee becomes delinquent in the payment of any taxes or any fees due the
city at any time during the license period, the license to sell alcoholic
beverages shall be subject to revocation or suspension. The CABC may, in his or
her discretion, approve a license to sell after receiving from the City Clerk,
a written statement to the effect that the applicant for the license has paid
the indebtedness represented by the unpaid and delinquent taxes or fees. This
section shall apply only to taxes and fees which are due and payable by the
licensee.
   (C)   No quota retail package license shall be issued for any premises
unless the applicant certifies under oath that 90% of the total projected gross
receipts from sale made at the licensed premises during the 12-month period
following the issuance of the license shall consist of the projected gross
receipts from sales of alcoholic beverages. No quota retail package license
shall be renewed for any premises unless 90% of its gross receipts from sales
for the immediate past month and the immediate past 12 months have been derived
from the sale of alcoholic beverages.
   (D)   Appeals may be taken from decisions of the CABC to the State Alcoholic
Beverage Control Board according to the provisions of KRS 241.200 and 243.550.
(Ord. 10-01, passed 6-1-10; Am. Ord. 13-12, passed 12-3-13)
SALE OF ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
§ 116.060 LICENSE REQUIRED FOR SALE.
   No person shall sell or dispense at retail, or have in his possession for
sale, any alcoholic beverages, nor manufacture or transport any alcoholic
beverages in the city unless first procuring a license under the provisions of
this chapter, all state statutes, and all regulations adopted pursuant thereto.
The revocation, suspension, non-renewal, or other action which obviates the
state license shall also operate to invalidate the corresponding city license.
(Ord. 10-01, passed 6-1-10)
§ 116.061 HOURS OF SALE.
   (A)   Premises for which there has been granted a license for the sale at
retail of distilled spirits and wine by the package shall be permitted to
remain open during the hours of 6:00 a.m. to 12:00 midnight, but shall remain
closed during the 24 hours of Sunday and Christmas.
   (B)   Premises for which there has been granted a license for other retail
sales of alcoholic beverages by the drink shall be permitted to remain open
between the hours of 6:00 a.m. and 12:00 midnight, but shall be closed during
the 24 hours of each Sunday and Christmas. However, if the licensee provides a
separate department within the licensed premises capable of being locked and
closed off, within which is kept all stocks of alcoholic beverages, and if the
department is kept locked during the aforesaid time the licensee is not
permitted to remain open to sell alcoholic beverages, the licensee shall be
deemed to have complied with division (A).
   (C)   Retail sales of malt beverages may be made between the hours of 6:00
a.m. and 12:00 midnight each day except that no such sales shall be made during
the 24 hours of each Sunday or Christmas. Premises for which a license for the
sale of malt beverages has been issued shall be permitted to remain open during
the periods such sales are prohibited if all iced or chilled malt beverages are
locked up and/or unshelved malt beverages are properly placarded indicating
that the sale of such goods is prohibited.
   (D)   Any licensee for sales of alcoholic beverages by the drink or package
who violates the preceding section shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor,
shall be punished in accordance with the provisions of this chapter, and the
license shall be subject to revocation or suspension within the discretion of
the CABC.
   (E)   During the time a licensee’s business is actually closed, the premises
of any licensee for the sale of alcoholic beverages by the drink or package
must be closed to and vacant of all customers and all persons except the
licensee and employees, who shall be allowed on the premises for business
purposes only. Alcoholic beverages shall not be sold, given away, delivered or
consumed by anyone in any room of the premises during the closing hours, and no
parties, private or public, shall be held on the premises. The premises shall
not be loaned, rented or leased to anyone during closing hours for a party or
for any other purposes.
   (F)   Wholesalers shall not deliver alcoholic beverages on Sunday.
(Ord. 10-01, passed 6-1-10; Am. Ord. 13-12, passed 12-3-13)
§ 116.062 EXCEPTIONS TO MANDATORY CLOSING TIMES; REQUIREMENTS.
   A licensee of a premises holding a nonquota type 2 retail license shall be
allowed to remain open during hours when the sale of alcoholic beverages is
prohibited for the sole purpose of providing food services to the public.
However, all stocks of alcoholic beverages shall be locked and closed off from
the public during said time period.
(Ord. 10-01, passed 6-1-10; Am. Ord. 13-12, passed 12-3-13)
§ 116.063 CONFISCATION AUTHORIZED IF VIOLATION OCCURS.
   If any alcoholic beverages are found on the outside of the locked or closed-
off department of any licensed premises at any hours during which the licensee
is prohibited by the state law or by this chapter from selling alcoholic
beverages, a prima facie presumption shall arise that such alcoholic beverages
were kept outside the locked or closed-off section for the purpose of sale in
violation of this chapter and the state law and shall be grounds for revocation
or suspension of the license. In addition to other penalties provided for the
violation of this chapter, the CABC is hereby authorized to confiscate the
alcoholic beverages.
(Ord. 10-01, passed 6-1-10)
§ 116.064 ADVERTISING RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   No sign, banner, poster or other type of display advertising which
refers, either directly or indirectly, to alcoholic beverages, shall be
displayed on, nor shall it be visible from, the exterior of any premises
licensed for the sale of alcoholic beverages, except that reference to such may
be included in the name of the business. This restriction shall not prevent any
licensee from placing in the window of the licensed premises business price
cards not larger than 2 1/2 inches in size, setting forth the price at which he
offers alcoholic beverages for sale.
   (B)   No flashing, oscillating, rotating, shimmering, or other lights
demonstrating movement, or the illusion of movement, shall be used to
illuminate, or be visible from, the exterior of any premises licensed under
this chapter.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person holding any license under this
chapter to give away or offer to give away anything tangible of value as a
premium or prize, or for any other purpose in connection with the sale of
alcoholic beverages.
   (D)   Any advertising by any licensee under this chapter shall be in
compliance with this chapter, KRS 244.130, and any regulation promulgated
pursuant to KRS 244.130.
(Ord. 10-01, passed 6-1-10)
§ 116.065 RETAIL SALES TO CERTAIN PERSONS PROHIBITED.
   No retail licensee shall sell, give away or deliver any alcoholic beverages,
or procure or permit any alcoholic beverages to be sold, given away or
delivered to:
   (A)   A minor, except that in any prosecution for selling alcoholic
beverages to a minor it shall be an affirmative defense that the sale was
induced by the use of false, fraudulent, or altered identification papers or
other documents, and that the appearance and character of the purchaser were
such that his or her age could not have been ascertained by any other means and
that the purchaser's appearance and character indicated strongly that he or she
was of legal age to purchase alcoholic beverages. This evidence may be
introduced either in mitigation of the charge or as a defense to the charge
itself.
   (B)   A person actually or apparently under the influence of alcoholic
beverages.
   (C)   Anyone known to the seller or server to be an habitual drunkard or any
person known to the seller or server to have been convicted of drunkenness as
many as three times within the most recent 12- month period.
   (D)   Anyone known to the seller or server to have been convicted of any
misdemeanor attributable directly or indirectly to the use of alcoholic
beverages or anyone known to the seller or server to have been convicted of a
felony.
(Ord. 10-01, passed 6-1-10; Am. Ord. 13-12, passed 12-3-13)
§ 116.066 MINORS NEITHER TO POSSESS OR PURCHASE ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES NOR TO
MISREPRESENT AGE; USE OF FRAUDULENT IDENTIFICATION.
   (A)   As used in KRS 244.083 and this section PREMISES means the place of
business of a person licensed to sell alcoholic beverages including, in the
case of drive-in establishments, the entire lot upon which the business
establishment is situated.
   (B)   With regard to persons under 21 years of age:
      (1)   Except as herein provided, no person under 21 years of age shall
enter any premises licensed for the sale of alcoholic beverages for the purpose
of purchasing or receiving any alcoholic beverages.
      (2)   No person holding any license for on-premises consumption of
distilled spirits and wine or a license for retail malt beverage sales, or any
clerk, servant, agent or employee thereof shall permit any person under the age
of 21 years on the licensed premises unless such premises is a restaurant,
grocery store, hotel, private club, or upon the premises for a temporary
licensed event, including plays or bona fide concerts. In such exempted
premises, persons under 21 years of age shall not enter the barroom area.
      (3)   Minors not accompanied by a parent or legal guardian shall not
remain on a licensed premises classified herein as a restaurant after the hour
of 10:00 p.m. unless the minor remains only in the designated restaurant area
which is clearly separated from both the barroom area and any area provided for
dancing.
      (4)   The prohibitions set forth in divisions (1), (2) and (3) shall not
apply to persons under the age of 21 who are working on the premises, either as
an employee or an independent contractor, which persons may enter and remain on
said premises while they are working, and at no other time.
   (C)   A licensee or any of his or her clerks, servants, agents or employees
is guilty of permitting the unlawful possession or consumption of alcoholic
beverages on licensed premises when he or she:
      (1)   Owns, occupies, maintains, controls, leases, or exercises control
or ownership of real estate, including but not limited to the buildings and
other structures located thereon, and permits any person under the age of 21 to
possess or consume any alcoholic beverage on the premises; or
      (2)   Owns, occupies, maintains, controls, leases, or exercises control
or ownership of real estate, including but not limited to the buildings and
other structures located thereon, and allows or permits any person under the
age of 21 years to remain on the premises while that person possesses or
consumes any alcoholic beverage.
   (D)   In the event a violation occurs under the provisions of this section,
the CABC shall forthwith determine whether the licensee, at whose business
establishment the prohibited activity occurred, may have such license suspended
or revoked. In the event three or more violations under the provisions of this
section occur at a business establishment within a 12-month period, the CABC
shall suspend or revoke said license.
   (E)   No person under 21 years of age shall possess for his or her own use
or purchase or attempt to purchase or have another purchase for him or her, any
alcoholic beverages. No person shall aid or assist any person under 21 years of
age in purchasing or having delivered or served to him or her any alcoholic
beverages.
   (F)   No person under 21 years of age shall misrepresent his or her age for
the purpose of inducing any licensee, or other employee of any licensee, to
sell or serve any alcoholic beverages to such person.
   (G)   No person under 21 years of age shall use, or attempt to use, any
false, fraudulent, or altered identification card or paper, or any other
document, to purchase or attempt to purchase or otherwise obtain any alcoholic
beverage.
(Ord. 10-01, passed 6-1-10)
§ 116.067 LICENSEE TO DISPLAY NOTICE REGARDING SALE TO MINORS.
   (A)   Every retail licensee shall display at all times in a prominent place
a printed card at least 8 inches by 11 inches in size which shall show, in 30
point or larger type, substantially as follows:
   (B)   Persons under the age of 21 are subject to a fine up to $100 if they:
      (1)   Enter licensed premises to buy, or have served to them, alcoholic
beverages.
      (2)   Possess, purchase or attempt to purchase, or get another to
purchase alcoholic beverages.
      (3)   Misrepresent their age for the purpose of purchasing or obtaining
alcoholic beverages.
(Ord. 10-01, passed 6-1-10)
§ 116.068 MANDATORY RESPONSIBLE BEVERAGE SERVICE TRAINING.
   (A)   SERVER. Any person employed or working in any capacity, whether as an
employee, volunteer help or as a working proprietor, in any premise licensed
for the sale of alcoholic beverages where alcoholic beverages are sold or
dispensed by the drink or where malt beverages are sold for consumption on the
premises and whose job duties include the sale, dispensing or service of
alcoholic beverages or the management of the licensed premises.
   (B)   All persons employed in the selling and serving of alcoholic beverages
shall participate in and complete a city-approved responsible beverage service
training program. For a responsible beverage service training program to be
approved by the city, it must effectively train its participants in the
identification of false age documents and recognition of characteristics of
intoxication. The city will not require enrollment in particular classes, but
only that the training be obtained from a recognized program meeting the goals
expressed in this chapter.
   (C)   All persons required to complete training under division (A) above
shall complete that training within 60 days of the date on which the person
first becomes subject to the training requirement. All persons completing the
training required by this section shall be re-certified in responsible beverage
service training from a program approved by the city not less than once every
three years thereafter.
   (D)   The manager of the restaurant shall be responsible for compliance with
the training requirements and shall maintain for inspection by the CABC a
record or file on each employee that shall contain the pertinent training
information.
   (E)   Any person working at a special event for which a temporary alcoholic
beverage license has been approved shall not be required to comply with this
section.
(Ord. 10-01, passed 6-1-10)
REGULATORY LICENSE FEE
§ 116.080 REGULATORY LICENSE FEE IMPOSED.
   (A)   A regulatory license fee is imposed upon the gross receipts of each
establishment licensed to sell alcoholic beverages. The regulatory license fee
is for the purpose of insuring full reimbursement to the city for the costs of
any additional policing, regulatory, or administrative expenses related to the
sale of alcoholic beverages in the city. The City Council shall adopt, at the
budget adoption for the fiscal year, an annual rate for the regulatory license
fee as shall be reasonably estimated to insure full reimbursement to the city
for the cost of any additional policing, regulatory, or administrative expenses
related to the sale of alcoholic beverages in the city. The regulatory license
fee shall be in addition to any other taxes, fees, or licenses permitted by
law, but a credit against the fee shall be allowed in an amount equal to the
licenses or fees imposed under the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   The regulatory license fee shall be 6% for the licensing year
beginning May 1, 2010, and continuing thereafter until amended or repealed.
(Ord. 10-01, passed 6-1-10)
§ 116.081 PAYMENT.
   Payment of the regulatory license fee shall accompany tax returns approved
for use by the CABC and the City Clerk. The return shall be submitted to the
CABC by the fifteenth day of each month for the preceding month's sales. The
fraction of the fee required under the provisions of this chapter, represented
by one divided by the number of months for which the city license was issued,
shall be deducted each month as a credit.
(Ord. 10-01, passed 6-1-10)
§ 116.082 FAILURE TO PAY.
   Failure to pay the monthly remittance within ten days after the due date
shall constitute a violation of this chapter.
(Ord. 10-01, passed 6-1-10)
§ 116.083 INTEREST ON LATE PAYMENTS.
   Interest shall be assessed upon any past due payments at the rate of 12%
percent per annum.
(Ord. 10-01, passed 6-1-10)
§ 116.084 ADEQUATE RECORD KEEPING REQUIRED.
   Every licensee shall keep and maintain adequate books and records of all
transactions involved in the sale of alcoholic beverages in the same manner
required by the rules and regulations of the State Alcoholic Beverage Control
Board, or such rules and regulations as may be from time to time promulgated by
the CABC. Where the sales of alcoholic beverages as they relate to other sales
are determinative of the licensee's eligibility to retain a license, the
licensee shall maintain adequate records to show that relationship. The books
and records shall be available at all reasonable times for inspection by the
CABC, the City Auditor, or any authorized representatives.
(Ord. 10-01, passed 6-1-10)
§ 116.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Penalty for nonpayment. If the holder of any license shall fail to pay
the regulatory license fee imposed by this chapter within ten days of the due
date, an automatic penalty of $50 shall be assessed for the first offense. An
automatic penalty of $100 shall be assessed on the second offense, and an
automatic penalty of $200 shall be assessed on the third offense. In addition
to the monetary penalty, the CABC may hold a hearing for a second and third
offense requiring the licensee to show cause why the license should not be
suspended or revoked with full authority to do so upon appropriate findings.
The calculation of the number of offenses for the purpose of invoking the above
penalties shall be done on a 12-month basis, with the number of offenses being
reduced to zero at the beginning of each new license period.
   (B)   Infraction constitutes a misdemeanor.
      (1)   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is otherwise provided shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and
shall, in addition to other penalties provided by law, be subject to the
following penalties:
         (a)   For the first offense a fine not to exceed $500;
         (b)   For any subsequent offense a fine not to exceed $500 or
confinement in jail not more than six months, or both.
      (2)   In addition to any other penalty provided for herein, any licensee
violating any provision of this chapter shall be subject to suspension or
revocation of such licensee's license, subsequent to a hearing before the CABC.
(Ord. 10-01, passed 6-1-10)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
Chapter
   
130.   GENERAL OFFENSES
CHAPTER 130: GENERAL OFFENSES
Section
General Provisions
   
130.01   Carrying concealed deadly weapons in governmental buildings
   
130.02   Minor to furnish identification to play billiards or pool
Curfew for Minors
   
130.20   Definitions
   
130.21   Hours of curfew
   
130.22   Liability of parent or guardian
   
130.23   Exceptions
   
130.24   Enforcement
 
   
130.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 130.01 CARRYING CONCEALED DEADLY WEAPONS IN GOVERNMENTAL BUILDINGS.
   (A)   Except as provided in KRS 527.020, no person licensed to carry a
concealed deadly weapon may carry a concealed deadly weapon in that portion of
a building owned, leased, or controlled by the city. This section specifically
exempts any building used for public housing by private persons, highway rest
areas, firing ranges, and private dwelling owned, leased, or controlled by the
city from any restriction on the carrying or possession of deadly weapons.
   (B)   That portion of a building in which the carrying of concealed deadly
weapons is prohibited shall be clearly identified by signs posted at the
entrance to the restricted area.
   (C)   There shall be no criminal penalty for violation of this section, but
persons violating this section may be denied entrance to the building, ordered
to leave the building, and if employees of the city, be subject to employee
disciplinary measures for violation of the provisions of this section.
(Ord. 96-31, passed - -96; Am. Ord. 13-05, passed 5-7-13)
§ 130.02 MINOR TO FURNISH IDENTIFICATION TO PLAY BILLIARDS OR POOL.
   No person owning or controlling a billiard or pool table shall permit, for
compensation or reward, any minor under 18 years of age to play any game on the
table, unless the minor shall have first displayed an identification card
containing his name, age, photograph, and the signature of his parents or
guardian. The minor shall keep such identification card on his person, and it
shall be subject to inspection at any time by any peace officer. The person
owning or controlling the billiard or pool table shall keep and maintain a
registration book in which each minor shall sign. The person owning or
controlling the billiard or pool table shall supply a blank identification card
to each parent or guardian who makes request for same.
(KRS 436.320)
Penalty, see § 130.99
CURFEW FOR MINORS
§ 130.20 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALLOW. Either to permit or neglect to prevent. It requires actual or
constructive knowledge on the part of the parent or guardian, that is, the
parent or guardian must actually know about the child violating this
subchapter, or the circumstances must be such that a reasonably prudent parent
or guardian should have known the child was violating this subchapter.
   MINOR. Any person under the age of 18, or as may be otherwise phrased, any
person of the age of 17 or under.
   General Offenses
   PARENT. Any person having legal custody of a minor:
      (1)   As a natural or adoptive parent;
      (2)   As a legal guardian;
      (3)   As a person who stands "in loco parentis;" or
      (4)   As a person to whom legal custody has been given by order of court.
   REMAIN. To stay behind, to tarry, or to stay unnecessarily upon or in any
public assembly, building, place, street, or highway.
§ 130.21 HOURS OF CURFEW.
   Except as set forth in §
130.23, it shall be unlawful for any person under the age of 18 to be or remain
in or upon any public assembly, building, place, street, or highway within the
city at night during the following periods:
   (A)   1:00 a.m. to 6:00 a.m. Saturday;
   (B)   1:00 a.m. to 6:00 a.m. Sunday;
   (C)   11:00 p.m. Sunday to 6:00 a.m. Monday;
   (D)   11:00 p.m. Monday to 6:00 a.m. Tuesday;
   (E)   11:00 p.m. Tuesday to 6:00 a.m. Wednesday;
   (F)   11:00 p.m. Wednesday to 6:00 a.m. Thursday; and
   (G)   11:00 p.m. Thursday to 6:00 a.m. Friday.
§ 130.22 LIABILITY OF PARENT OR GUARDIAN.
   It shall be unlawful for any parent or guardian having legal custody of a
minor to allow such minor to be or remain in or upon a public assembly,
building, place, street, or highway in the city under circumstances not
constituting an exception as enumerated in §
130.23, during the time periods contained in §
130.21.
§ 130.23 EXCEPTIONS.
   In the following exceptional cases a minor in or upon any public assembly,
building, place, street, or highway in the city during the nocturnal hours
provided for in §
130.21 shall not be considered in violation of this subchapter:
   (A)   When the minor is accompanied by a parent or guardian;
   (B)   When accompanied by an adult authorized by a parent or guardian of
such minor;
   (C)   When exercising First Amendment rights protected by the United States
Constitution, such as the free exercise of religion, freedom of speech, and the
right of assembly, provided that written notice signed by the minor and
countersigned by a parent is in the possession of such minor specifying when,
where, and in what manner said minor will be exercising such First Amendment
rights;
   (D)   In case of reasonable necessity but only after such minor's parent has
communicated to the police department the facts establishing such reasonable
necessity;
   (E)   When the minor is on the sidewalk of the place where such minor
resides, or on the sidewalk of either next-door neighbor who has not
communicated an objection to a police officer or the police department;
   (F)   When returning home, by a direct route from, and within one hour of
the termination of, a school activity, or any activity of a religious or other
voluntary association, provided that justification indicating the place and
time of termination of said event can be given to any investigating officer of
the police department;
   (G)   When authorized by regulation issued by the City Manager in cases of
reasonable necessity involving more minors than may reasonably be dealt with on
an individual basis. Such regulation should be issued sufficiently in advance
to permit publicity through news media and through other agencies such as the
schools. The regulation shall define the activity, the scope of the use of the
public assembly, building, place, street, or highway permitted, and the period
of time involved not to extend more than one hour beyond the time for
termination of the activity, and the reason for finding that such regulation is
reasonably necessary. The City Manager shall notify the police department of
said information;
   (H)   When engaged in a business or occupation which the laws of Kentucky
authorize a person under 18 years of age to perform;
   (I)   When the minor is, with parental consent, in a motor vehicle with a
lawfully authorized driver; and
   (J)   When the minor, who is a duly authorized and licensed driver, is
operating a motor vehicle within the city for the purpose of passing through,
by direct route, from one location to another either within or out of the city,
including all minors that may also be within the vehicle.
§ 130.24 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   A police officer, upon finding or being notified of any minor in or
upon any public assembly, building, place, street, or highway whose parent is
believed to be in violation of this subchapter may stop and question such minor
and request such information as his or her name, age, and the name and address
of his or her parent, guardian, or person having legal custody.
   (B)   If the police officer determines or has reasonable cause to believe
that a curfew violation has occurred, the police officer may obtain from the
minor the information necessary to issue a citation to the minor's parent,
guardian, or person having legal custody and then either take the minor to the
minor's home or direct the minor to proceed immediately to the minor's home.
§ 130.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who violates a provision of this chapter to which no other
specific penalty applies shall be punished as set forth in §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person who violates §
130.02 shall be fined not less than $10 nor more than $100 for each offense.
(KRS 436.320)
   (C)   Any parent, guardian, or person having legal custody allowing a minor
to violate any provision of §§
130.20 through
130.24 shall be subject to a fine of not more than $500 or imprisonment for a
period not to exceed six months or both.
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
Chapter
   
150.   BUILDING REGULATIONS
   
151.   ZONING
   
152.   FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
   
153.   CELLULAR ANTENNA TOWER REGULATIONS
   
154.   RENTAL UNIT PERMIT
CHAPTER 150: BUILDING REGULATIONS
Section
Building Code
   
150.01   Adoption of Kentucky Building Code and Standards of Safety;
enforcement agents
   
150.02   Application
   
150.03   Appeals
   
150.04   Building permit fees
   
150.05   Electrical permit and inspection fees
Unsafe Buildings
   
150.15   Application; Basic Property Maintenance Code adopted by reference
   
150.16   Order to make safe, close or remove
   
150.17   Notice of unsafe buildings or structures
   
150.18   Vacating unsafe buildings or structures and closing streets
   
150.19   Issuance of certificate of occupancy
   
150.20   Recovery of costs
   
150.21   Conflicting ordinances
 
   
150.99   Penalty
BUILDING CODE
§ 150.01 ADOPTION OF KENTUCKY BUILDING CODE AND STANDARDS OF SAFETY;
ENFORCEMENT AGENTS.
   (A)   Adoption. The Kentucky Building Code, promulgated in Chapter 7,
Section 120, Title 815 of the Kentucky Administrative Regulations and the
Kentucky Residential Code promulgated in Chapter 7, Section 125, Title 815 of
the Kentucky Administrative Regulations by the Board of Housing, Buildings and
construction, Commonwealth of Kentucky, are hereby adopted as if fully set out
herein. A copy of said Kentucky Building Code is on file in the office of the
Cadiz City Clerk, and the City Clerk shall at all times keep a copy of the
Building Code for reference. An attested copy of this section shall be
transmitted to the Office of Housing, Buildings and Construction of the
Commonwealth of Kentucky.
   (B)   Designated enforcement officer. The Building Inspector shall be
designated as the local enforcement agent for said Kentucky Building Code. All
Building Code inspections shall be performed by persons certified by the
Kentucky Office of Housing, Buildings and Construction. All electrical
inspections shall be performed by a state certified electrical inspector
specifically approved by this jurisdiction.
   (C)   Building inspection program. Pursuant to KRS 198B.060(8), a building
inspection program is hereby established within the city for application to all
buildings except single-family residential buildings.
   (D)   Permits and fees. The Fire Code Inspector as appointed by the city and
all other designated officers, agents, and employees of the city are hereby
charged with the enforcement of the provisions of the Standards of Safety.
      (1)   The city shall collect a fee of $15 for each annual inspection made
by the Fire Code Inspector pursuant to Ord. 742.
      (2)   All final decisions of the fire code official of the city shall be
appealable to a local appeals board pursuant to the procedures adopted by the
City Council.
(Ord. 742, passed 3-5-91; Am. Ord. 11-04, passed 9-6-11)
Penalty, see § 150.99
§ 150.02 APPLICATION.
   The application of the State Building Code shall be extended to all single-
family dwellings in the city which are to be constructed or remodeled.
§ 150.03 APPEALS.
   Appeals from decisions made by the Building Inspector under this chapter may
be taken to the State Board of Housing, Buildings and Construction unless and/
or until a local board of housing appeals, as set forth in KRS Chapter 198B, is
established to hear such appeals.
Statutory reference:
   Appeals procedure, see KRS 198B.070
§ 150.04 BUILDING PERMIT FEES.
   The fee schedule attached to Ordinance 11-04 is hereby adopted and
incorporated by reference herein as if fully set out in this section.
(Ord. 685, passed - -85; Am. Ord. 11-04, passed 9-6-11)
Cross-reference:
   Building Inspector, see §
31.38
§ 150.05 ELECTRICAL PERMIT AND INSPECTION FEES.
   The fee schedule attached to Ordinance 15-11 is hereby adopted and
incorporated by reference herein as if fully set out in this section.
(Ord. 15-06, passed 6-23-15; Am. Ord. 15-11, passed 9-1-15)
UNSAFE BUILDINGS
§ 150.15 APPLICATION; BASIC PROPERTY MAINTENANCE CODE ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   (A)   The term unsafe building or structure shall apply to buildings or
structures or portions thereof, existing or hereafter erected, as follows:
      (1)   Those deemed structurally unsafe; unstable; unsanitary;
constituting a hazard to life because of inadequate exit facilities;
constituting a fire hazard; unsuitable or improper for use or occupancy to
which they are put; constituting a hazard of health or safety because of
inadequate maintenance, dilapidation, obsolescence or abandonment; or otherwise
dangerous to life or property.
      (2)   Vacant buildings or structures or portions thereof deemed to
constitute a hazard.
(Ord. 734, passed 3-6-90)
   (B)   The Basic Property Maintenance Code adopted by the city on March 6,
1990, is hereby adopted by reference into this code of ordinances as if set
forth fully herein. Copies of the code shall be kept on file and be available
for public inspection in the office of the City Clerk.
§ 150.16 ORDER TO MAKE SAFE, CLOSE OR REMOVE.
   When a building or structure or any portion thereof is found unsafe upon
inspection by the building official, he shall order such building or structure
or any portion thereof to be made safe, or closed and secured, or taken down
and removed.
(Ord. 734, passed 3-6-90)
§ 150.17 NOTICE OF UNSAFE BUILDINGS OR STRUCTURES.
   Upon determining that a building or structure or portion thereof is unsafe,
the City Codes Enforcement Officer shall serve or cause to be served on the
owner, or some of the owners, or other persons who may have a vested or
contingent interest in the same a written notice containing a description of
the building or structure or portion thereof deemed unsafe, a statement of the
particulars in which the building or structure or portion thereof is unsafe,
and order requiring the same to be made safe and secure or removed, as may be
deemed necessary by him. If the person to whom such notice and order is
addressed cannot be found after diligent search, then such notice and order
shall be sent by certified or registered mail to the last known address of such
person; and a copy of such notice shall be posted in a conspicuous place on the
premises to which it relates. Such mailing and posting shall be deemed adequate
service.
(Ord. 734, passed 3-6-90)
§ 150.18 VACATING UNSAFE BUILDINGS OR STRUCTURES AND CLOSING STREETS.
   When a building or structure or portion thereof is in an unsafe condition so
that life is endangered thereby, the City Codes Enforcement Officer shall order
and require the inmates and occupants to vacate the same forthwith, provided
the building official shall find a suitable dwelling for said inmates and/or
occupants agreeable to both them and the Building Inspector, before
condemnation of property shall commence. He shall, when necessary for the
public safety, temporarily close sidewalks, streets, buildings, structures and
places adjacent to such buildings or structure and prohibit same from being
used.
(Ord. 734, passed 3-6-90)
§ 150.19 ISSUANCE OF CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY.
   Any structure that is vacated must be inspected by the Building Official and
brought up to the City of Cadiz Property Maintenance Code and certificate of
occupancy issued before said structure may be re-occupied.
(Ord. 734, passed 3-6-90)
§ 150.20 RECOVERY OF COSTS.
   The corporation counsel shall constitute proper action against the owner of
premises for the recovery of costs incurred by the City Codes Enforcement
Officer in the performance of emergency work.
(Ord. 734, passed 3-6-90)
§ 150.21 CONFLICTING ORDINANCES.
   All ordinances in conflict herewith are to the extent of such conflict
hereby repealed.
(Ord. 734, passed 3-6-90)
§ 150.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who violates any provision of the state codes adopted in §
150.01 shall be subject to the following penalties:
   (A)   Violators of the State Building Code or the State Residential Code
shall, upon conviction, be subject to a fine of not less than $10 nor more than
$1,000 for each offense.
(KRS 198B.990(1))
   (B)   Violators of the State Standards of Safety shall, upon conviction, be
subject to a fine of not less than $25 nor more than $1000, imprisonment for
not more than 60 days, or both, for each offense.
(KRS 227.990(1))
   (C)   Violators of the State Plumbing Code shall, upon conviction, be
subject to a fine of not less than $10 nor more than $100, imprisonment for not
more than 90 days, or both, for each offense.
(KRS 318.990)
CHAPTER 151: ZONING
Section
General Provisions
   
151.001   Title
   
151.002   Purpose
   
151.003   Definitions
   
151.004   Conformance required
   
151.005   Continuance of nonconforming uses
   
151.006   Conflicting provisions
General Regulations
   
151.020   Rear dwellings
   
151.021   Reductions in lot area prohibited
   
151.022   Off-street automobile storage
   
151.023   Obstruction to vision at street intersections prohibited
   
151.024   Off-street loading and unloading space
   
151.025   Building line setback
   
151.026   Temporary signs, pennants, banners and advertising displays
Establishment of Districts
   
151.035   Districts designated
   
151.036   Boundaries of districts
Residential Districts
   
151.050   General provisions for residential districts
   
151.051   R-1 and R-1S Districts
   
151.052   R-2 Districts
Business Districts
   
151.065   Neighborhood-Highway Business Districts (B-2)
   
151.066   Central Business District (B-1)
Industrial Districts
   
151.080   Light Industrial Districts (I-1)
   
151.081   Heavy Industrial District (I-2)
Flood Plains
   
151.095   General provisions
   
151.096   Establishment of floodplain overzones
   
151.097   Specific standards
Exceptions and Modifications
   
151.110   Lot of record
   
151.111   Group housing
   
151.112   Exception on height limits
Administration and Enforcement
   
151.125   Enforcing officer
   
151.126   Fees, charges and expenses
   
151.127   Building permits and certificates of occupancy
   
151.128   Board of Adjustment
   
151.129   Amendments
   
151.130   Remedies
 
   
151.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 151.001 TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known as the Zoning Ordinance of the City of Cadiz,
Kentucky. The map herein referred to, which is identified by the title, Zoning
Map of Cadiz, Kentucky, dated July 11, 1989, and all explanatory matter thereon
are hereby adopted and made a part of this chapter.
(Ord. 722, passed 7-11-89)
§ 151.002 PURPOSE.
   The zoning regulations and districts as herein set forth have been made in
accordance with a comprehensive plan for the purpose of promoting the public
health, safety, morals, and convenience, order, prosperity, and the general
welfare of the community. They have been designed to lessen congestion in the
streets, to secure safety from fire, flood, panic and other dangers, to provide
adequate light and air, to prevent the overcrowding of land, to avoid undue
concentration of population, to facilitate the adequate provision of
transportation, water, sewerage, schools, parks and other public requirements.
They have been made with reasonable consideration, among other things, as to
the character of each district and its peculiar suitability for particular
uses, and with a view of conserving the value of buildings and encouraging the
most appropriate use of land throughout the city.
(Ord. 722, passed 7-11-89)
§ 151.003 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACCESSORY BUILDING. A subordinate building, the use of which is incidental
to that of a principal building on the same lot.
   ALLEY. Any public or private way set aside for public travel less than 20
feet in width.
   BUILDING. Any structure constructed or intended for residence, business,
industry, for either public or private purposes, or accessory thereto, and
including tents, lunch wagons, dining cars, house trailers, billboards, signs
and similar structures whether stationary or movable.
   CENTER LINE OF A STREET. The center of the surveyed street right-of-way.
   DOUBLE-WIDE OR TRIPLE-WIDE MOBILE HOME. A mobile home consisting
respectively of two or three sections combined horizontally at the site to form
a single dwelling, while still retaining their individual chassis for possible
future movement.
   DWELLING. A house, apartment building, or other building designed or used
primarily for human habitation. The word DWELLING shall not include boarding or
rooming houses, hotels, motels, or other structures designed for transient
residence.
   DWELLING UNIT. A dwelling or portion thereof providing living accommodations
for one family and including at least one kitchen.
   FAMILY. One or more persons occupying premises and living as a single non-
profit housekeeping unit.
   HEIGHT OF BUILDING. The vertical distance from the established average
sidewalk grade or street grade, or finished grade at the building line,
whichever is the highest, to the highest point of the building.
   LOT. A piece, parcel, or plot of land occupied by, or to be occupied by, one
principal building and its accessory buildings and including the open spaces
required under this chapter.
   LOT OF RECORD. Any lot which is duly recorded and on file at the time of
enactment of this chapter in the office of the County Clerk.
   MOBILE HOME. A transportable structure, which exceeds either eight body feet
in width or 32 in length, built on a chassis and designed to be used as a
dwelling with or without a permanent foundation when connected to the required
utilities.
   MOBILE HOME PARK. A tract of land prepared and approved according to the
procedures in this chapter to accommodate ten or more mobile homes.
   NONCONFORMING USE. A use of a building or land lawful at the time of the
enactment of this chapter that does not conform with the permitted use
provisions of this chapter for the district in which it is located.
   PRINCIPAL BUILDING. A building including covered porches and paved patios,
in which is conducted the principal use of the lot on which it is situated. In
any residence district any dwelling shall be deemed to be the principal
building on the lot on which the same is situated.
   STREET. Any public or private way set aside for public travel that is 20
feet or more in width. The word STREET shall include the words "ROAD",
"HIGHWAY" and "THOROUGHFARE."
   TOTAL FLOOR AREA. The area of all floors of a building, including finished
attics, finished basements, paved patios and covered porches.
   TRAVEL TRAILER. A vehicular, portable structure built on a chassis, designed
to be used as a temporary dwelling for travel and recreational purposes, having
a body width not exceeding eight feet.
   USE. The purpose or activity for which a building, structure or land is
occupied or maintained.
   YARD. An open space on the same lot with a principal building, open
unoccupied and unobstructed by buildings from the ground to the sky except as
otherwise provided in this chapter.
      (1)   FRONT YARD. The yard extending across the entire width of the lot
between the front lot line and the nearest part of the principal building.
      (2)   REAR YARD. The yard extending across the entire width of the lot
between the rear lot line and the nearest part of the principal building.
      (3)   SIDE YARD. A yard extending along the side lot line from the front
yard to the rear yard and lying between the side lot line and the nearest part
of the principal building.
(Ord. 722, passed 7-11-89)
§ 151.004 CONFORMANCE REQUIRED.
   No building or land shall hereafter be used and no building or part thereof
shall be erected, moved, or altered unless for a use expressly permitted by and
in conformity with the regulations herein specified for the district in which
it is located, except as hereinafter provided.
(Ord. 722, passed 7-11-89)
§ 151.005 CONTINUANCE OF NONCONFORMING USES.
   Any use of land or structure existing at the time of enactment or subsequent
amendment of this chapter, but not in conformity with its provisions, may be
continued with the following limitations:
   (A)   Structures containing a nonconforming use shall not expand to add
usable floor space except for the purposes of a like business and only within
the limits of the recorded lot and structure now occupied.
   (B)   Structures containing a nonconforming use which are damaged or
destroyed shall not rebuild except for the same business and/or in accordance
with that provided in division (C) below of this section.
   (C)   No nonconforming use may be reestablished after it has been
discontinued for one year. Vacating of premises or building or non-operative
status shall be evidence of a discontinued use.
   (D)   One nonconforming use may replace another nonconforming use provided
the Board of Zoning Adjustment determines that the proposed new use is
decidedly less detrimental to the district than the existing nonconforming use.
   (E)   All nonconforming signs, billboards, junk yards, lumber yards and
similar uses of open land not involving a substantial investment in permanent
buildings shall be town down, altered or otherwise made to conform within five
years from the date of the adoption of this chapter.
(Ord. 722, passed 7-11-89)
§ 151.006 CONFLICTING PROVISIONS.
   In case of conflict between this chapter and/or any part thereof, and the
whole or part of any existing or future ordinance of the city, or the whole or
part of any existing or future private covenants and deeds, the most
restrictive in each case shall apply.
(Ord. 722, passed 7-11-89)
GENERAL REGULATIONS
§ 151.020 REAR DWELLINGS.
   (A)   No dwelling shall be erected on a lot which does not abut on at least
one street for at least 40 feet.
   (B)   No building in the rear of a principal building on the same lot may be
erected or modified for residential purposes, unless the criteria stated in §
151.125 are met.
(Ord. 722, passed 7-11-89)
Penalty, see § 151.999
§ 151.021 REDUCTIONS IN LOT AREA PROHIBITED.
   No lot, even though it may consist of one or more adjacent lots of record,
shall be reduced in area so that yards, lot area per family, lot width,
building area, or other requirements of this chapter are not maintained. This
section shall not apply when a portion of a lot is acquired for a public
purpose.
(Ord. 722, passed 7-11-89)
Penalty, see § 151.999
§ 151.022 OFF-STREET AUTOMOBILE STORAGE.
   (A)   Off-street automobile storage or standing space shall be provided on
any lot on which any of the following uses are hereafter established; such
space shall be provided with vehicular access to a street or an alley. For
purposes of computing the number of parking spaces available in a given area,
the ratio of 250 square feet per parking space shall be used. The following are
minimum requirements for specific uses:
      (1)   Dwellings - One space for each family dwelling unit.
      (2)   Boarding houses and rooming houses - One space for each two rooms
occupied or intended for occupancy by boarders or roomers, in addition to the
requirements of division (1) above.
      (3)   Tourist accommodations - One space for each room offered for
tourist accommodations.
      (4)   Theater, auditorium, church, stadium, or other place of public
assembly - One space for each ten seats available at maximum capacity.
      (5)   Industrial plant - One space for every five persons employed or
intended to be employed on such lot.
      (6)   Commercial or business building in a Neighborhood Business District
- Four spaces for the first 1,000 feet of ground floor space and one additional
space for each additional 150 square feet of such floor space.
      (7)   Mobile Home Park - One space for each mobile home unit.
      (8)   Hospitals - One space for each four patient beds (excluding
bassinets), plus one space for each staff or visiting doctor, based on the
average number, plus one space for each four employees, including nurses.
      (9)   Medical or dental clinics - One space per doctor, plus one
additional space for every two employees.
   (B)   If vehicle storage space or standing space required above cannot be
reasonably provided on the same lot on which the principal use is conducted in
the opinion of the Board of Zoning Adjustment may permit such space to be
provided on other off-street property provided such space lies within 400 feet
of an entrance to such principal use. Such vehicle standing space shall be
deemed to be required open space associated with the permitted use and shall
not thereafter be reduced or encroached upon in any manner.
(Ord. 722, passed 7-11-89)
§ 151.023 OBSTRUCTION TO VISION AT STREET INTERSECTIONS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   On a corner lot, within the area formed by the center lien of
intersecting streets and a line joining points on such center lines at a
distance of 90 feet, there shall be no obstruction to vision between a height
of 3½ feet and a height of ten feet above the average elevation of the existing
surfaces of each street at the center line thereof.
   (B)   The provisions of this section do not apply to the Central Business
District nor shall the requirements of this section be deemed to prohibit any
necessary retaining wall.
   (C)   The Board of Zoning Adjustment may either reduce or increase the
requirements of this section for the interest of safety where unusual or
special conditions warrant consideration.
(Ord. 722, passed 7-11-89)
§ 151.024 OFF-STREET LOADING AND UNLOADING SPACE.
   Every new building or structure intended for use for business or trade shall
provide not less than one loading and unloading space that will accommodate
semi-trailers and tractors for the loading and unloading of vehicles off the
street or public alley. Such place shall have access to a public alley or if
there is no alley, to a public street.
(Ord. 722, passed 7-11-89)
§ 151.025 BUILDING LINE SETBACK.
   (A)   A building line to establish a front yard for all buildings and
structures shall be established at a distance from the surveyed center line of
the street or center of the paved area equivalent to the width of the right-of-
way of the street on which the building fronts. In no case shall this distance
be less than 25 feet from the right-of-way line.
   (B)   The side yard requirements for all principal buildings on corner lots
shall have a minimum of 25 feet setback line from side street right-of-way.
Accessory buildings shall conform to the setback lines established on both
streets.
   (C)   Variances may be granted by the Board of Zoning Adjustment where
existing development on adjoining lots does not meet this front yard
requirement.
   (D)   This section shall not apply to the Central Business District.
(Ord. 722, passed 7-11-89)
§ 151.026 TEMPORARY SIGNS, PENNANTS, BANNERS AND ADVERTISING DISPLAYS.
   (A)   Signs, pennants, banners or other advertising displays which relate
specifically to a scheduled event. All such signs, pennants, banners and
advertisements shall not be displayed more than 60 calendar days prior to the
event.
   (B)   All such items shall be removed within five calendar days from the
final day of the event.
   (C)   All signs displayed shall be a minimum of five feet from the right-of-
way of the road.
   (D)   SPECIAL EVENTS shall be defined as not to exceed 30 calendar days.
(Ord. 02-93, passed 8-6-02)
ESTABLISHMENT OF DISTRICTS
§ 151.035 DISTRICTS DESIGNATED.
   (A)   For the purpose of this chapter the city is hereby divided into seven
principle districts, designated as follows:
      Residential District - R-1 (Low Density)
      Residential District - R-1S (Single Unit Low Density)
      Residential District - R-2 (Medium Density)
      Central Business District - B-l
      Neighborhood-Highway Business District - B-2
      Light Industrial District - I-I
      Heavy Industrial District - I-2
   (B)   In addition two overlay districts are created, designated as:
      Floodplain District - FP-1
      Floodplain District - FP-2.
(Ord. 722, passed 7-11-89)
§ 151.036 BOUNDARIES OF DISTRICTS.
   (A)   The boundaries of the districts are hereby established as shown on the
zoning map which is on file in the office of the City Clerk-Treasurer. The city
expressly adopts the May 2024 map of the zoning boundaries and city limits as
the official version of its designations based on the recommendation and
approval of the Cadiz-Trigg County Planning Commission.
   (B)   Unless otherwise shown on the zoning map, the boundary lines of
districts are lot lines, the center lines of streets or alleys, or such lines
extended, railroad right-of-way lines, the, center line of creeks or corporate
limit line as it existed at the time of enactment of this chapter.
   (C)   Questions concerning the exact location of district boundary lines
shall be determined by the Board of Zoning Adjustment.
(Ord. 722, passed 7-11-89; Am. Ord. 24-04, passed 8-15-24)
RESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS
§ 151.050 GENERAL PROVISIONS FOR RESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS.
   Within all residential districts (R-1), (R-1S) and (R-2), the following
regulations shall apply:
   (A)   Uses permitted (R-1) and (R-2).
      (1)   Single and multiple family dwellings, customary general
horticultural uses and buildings incidental thereto.
      (2)   Single family dwellings only, and buildings incidental thereto.
      (3)   Conditional uses (R-1) and (R-2). The following uses are
conditional uses requiring written approval of the Board of Zoning Adjustment:
Churches and other places of worship; parish houses, public libraries; schools
offering general education courses; public parks; and non-commercial public
recreational facilities--municipal, county, state or federal use; public
utilities; funeral homes; cemeteries; fraternity and/or sorority houses; nurses
homes; nursing homes; hospitals for human care; philanthropic institutions and
clubs, except a club which the chief activity is customarily carried on as a
business; animal or poultry farms and kennels; physicians’ offices; and bed and
breakfast establishments. The Board of Zoning Adjustment may attach certain
conditions to its approval which it feels are necessary to preserve and protect
the character of the districts in which the proposed use would locate.
      (4)   The use of a mobile home as a dwelling or business on any lot,
other than a lot in a licensed and/or approved trailer court mobile home park,
for a period of more than 30 days is prohibited.
      (5)   Modular homes delivered to lot, set up on permanent solid or
continuous foundation, shall be allowed in any subdivision in the city, subject
to compliance with existing subdivision regulations, deed covenant and
restrictions.
      (6)   A mobile home parking on any lot on which a principal building
exists for a period under 30 days, as provided in this section, shall conform
to the requirements for an accessory building, as provided in this chapter.
      (7)   Accessory buildings or uses customarily incidental to any
aforementioned use under the following conditions:
         (a)   The taking of boarders or tourists or the leasing of rooms by
the family resident on the premises provided not more than six rooms are used
for such purposes. For the purposes of advertising, one sign (unlighted) not
over four square feet in area, may be used.
         (b)   Professional offices, studios or customary incidental home
occupations, which shall be those occupations that Board of Zoning Adjustment
finds to be non-objectionable in residential areas of the city, conducted
within the principal building but only by a person resident in the dwellings,
provided, no more than one person, not a resident of the building or premises
is employed regularly and that no more than 25% of the total floor area in any
dwelling unit is devoted to such use. For the purpose of advertising, one sign
(unlighted) not over four square feet in area may be used.
         (c)   Real estate signs advertising the sale, rental or lease of
premises on which they are maintained, and not over six square feet in area.
   (B)   Height. No buildings shall exceed three stories or 35 feet in height,
unless each side yard is increased over the required minimum by five feet or
fraction thereof of additional height over 35 feet.
   (C)   Side and rear yards. All buildings, except unattached one-story
buildings of accessory use shall have the following minimum yard space:
      Rear depth         25 feet
      Side width - R1 District   10 feet
      Side width - R1S District   10 feet (each side)
      Side width - R2 District   7 feet (each side)
   (D)   Location of accessory buildings.
      (1)   Unattached one-story buildings of accessory use unless there is a
party wall, shall have the following space to the lot line:
         Rear depth - 5 feet
         Side width - 5 feet
      (2)   On any corner lot adjoining in the rear another lot which is in a
residential district, accessory structures within the rear yard shall conform
to the side yard setback on the corner lots as indicated in §
151.025 of this chapter.
   (E)   Billboards. No advertising signs or billboards, other than those
specifically permitted under divisions (A)(7)(a) and (c) above of this section
shall be allowed.
(Ord. 722, passed 7-11-89; Am. Ord. 14-05, passed 7-1-14; Am. Ord. 21-03,
passed 4-6-21) Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.051 R-1 AND R-1S DISTRICTS - LOW DENSITY RESIDENTIAL.
   The following regulations shall apply in R-1 and R-1S Districts only.
   Required lot area and width. Minimum required lot area for one-family
dwelling, 10,000 square feet; for multi-family dwelling add 3,500 square feet
for each additional dwelling unit. Minimum required lot width at building line
for one-family dwelling, 75 feet; for multi-family dwelling, 100 feet.
Distances between the principle building and side property lines shall be ten
feet each side.
(Ord. 722, passed 7-11-89)
§ 151.052 R-2 DISTRICTS - MEDIUM DENSITY RESIDENTIAL.
   The following regulations shall apply in R-2 districts only.
   (A)   Permitted uses. Single and multiple family dwellings, customary
general horticultural uses for private consumption and buildings incidental
thereto.
   (B)   Required lot area and lot width. Minimum, required lot area for a one-
family dwelling, 7,500 square feet; for multi-family dwelling add 2,500 square
feet for each additional dwelling unit. Minimum-required lot width, at building
line for one-family dwelling; 60 feet; for multi-family dwelling, 70 feet.
Minimum side yard distances between the principle building and side property
lines shall be seven feet each side.
(Ord. 722, passed 7-11-89)
BUSINESS DISTRICTS
§ 151.065 NEIGHBORHOOD-HIGHWAY BUSINESS DISTRICTS (B-2).
   Within the Neighborhood - Highway Business Districts the following
regulations shall apply.
   (A)   Uses permitted.
      (1)   Grocery, self-service laundries, restaurants, drug and hardware
stores; meat or fruit markets, barber or beauty shops, shoe repair shops,
motels, hotels, filling stations, theaters, places of amusement and assembly,
car wash, public garages or other places of motor vehicle service, dyeing and
dry cleaning works, printing, publication and engraving.
      (2)   Any accessory use or building customarily incidental to the above
permitted uses.
      (3)   Any retail or wholesale business or service (except warehouses),
including the making of articles to be sold at retail on the premises,
provided, however, that any manufacturing shall be restricted to light
manufacturing incidental to a retail business or service where the products are
sold principally on the premises by the producer to the consumed and where not
more than five persons are employed in such manufacture; provided further,
however, that the following uses shall not be permitted; animal hospital; auto
wrecking; coal or lumber yards; dairy; electric welding; gasoline, oil or
alcohol storage above the ground in excess of 500 gallons; grist or flour mill;
junk, scrap paper or rag storage; bailing; laundry or bakery employing more
than five persons; machine shop; slaughter house or stock yards; tinsmith shop;
or sheet metal works; or any other use which in the opinion of the Board of
Zoning Adjustment would be injurious because of offensive fumes, odors, noises,
dust, vibrations or other objectionable features, or hazardous to the community
on account of danger of fire or explosion, even when conducted under
safeguards.
      (4)   Any accessory use or building customarily incidental to the above
permitted uses.
      (5)   Advertising signs or billboards shall be 15 feet from the street
right-of-way and not less than eight feet from the ground. Not more than one
advertising sign shall be constructed or erected on a lot of record unless said
sign is indicating the name and type of business conducted on the premises
only.
   (B)   Required lot area and yard area.
 
Uses           Lot Area Ft. Frontage Ft. Front Yard Side Yard     Rear Yard
                                         Depth Ft.  Width Ft.     Depth Ft.
                                                    None; except  None; except
                                                    when          when
                                                    adjoining a   adjoining a
                                                    Residential   Residential
                                                    District -    District -
                                                    then all      then all
                                                    buildings     buildings
                                                    shall be so   shall be so
Nonresidential                                      located as to located as to
Uses           None         None         25         comply with   comply with
                                                    the           the
                                                    requirements  requirements
                                                    of the        of the
                                                    adjoining     adjoining
                                                    Residential   Residential
                                                    District for  District for
                                                    lot coverage, lot coverage,
                                                    lot width and lot width and
                                                    yards         yards
Residential    Same as required in an R-2 District
Uses
 
   All buildings on corner lots adjoining a Residential District shall be
located so as to conform with corner lot side yard requirements of Residential
Districts as set forth in §
151.025 of this chapter.
   (C)   Height. All buildings shall meet height requirements as set forth for
residential districts.
   (D)   Off-street automobile storage. As required in §
151.022 of this chapter.
   (E)   Screening. Where a side lot line is shared with an adjoining
residential district, a well maintained compact hedge, a solid fence or similar
solid screening device four to six feet in height shall be installed to screen
the business use from the adjoining lot in the residential district. The screen
shall begin at the front building line and extend along the common side lot
line to the rear property line.
(Ord. 722, passed 7-11-89)
§ 151.066 CENTRAL BUSINESS DISTRICT (B-1).
   (A)   Uses permitted. Any use permitted in a Neighborhood - Highway Business
District.
   (B)   Uses prohibited. Any use prohibited in a Neighborhood-Highway District
and such similar uses which in the opinion of the Board of Zoning Adjustment
would be detrimental to the development of the Central Business District as a
retail shopping area.
   (C)   Required lot area and yard area.
      (1)   Commercial uses-None.
      (2)   Residential uses--Same as required for R-2 District.
   (D)   Height. No building shall exceed six stories or 75 feet in height.
   (E)   Off-street automobile storage.  As required in §
151.022 of this chapter.
   (F)   Signs. Exterior business signs shall be for advertising merchandise or
services sold on the premises only and in no case shall there be more than one
exterior sign for each business. No sign shall be placed closer than three feet
from the street right-of-way.
   (G)   Screening. Where a side lot line is shared with an adjoining
residential district, a well maintained compact hedge, a solid fence or similar
solid screening device four to six feet in height shall be installed to screen
the business use from the adjoining lot in the residential district. The screen
shall begin at the front building line and extend along the common side lot
line to the rear property line.
(Ord. 722, passed 7-11-89)
Penalty, see § 151.999
INDUSTRIAL DISTRICTS
§ 151.080 LIGHT INDUSTRIAL DISTRICTS (I-1).
   Within the Light Industrial Districts, the following regulations shall
apply:
   (A)   Uses permitted.
      (1)   Any use permitted in a Business District (B-2 and/or B-1). Except
that no building, structure or portion thereof shall be erected or constructed
for any dwelling use.
      (2)   Wholesale, storage, warehouse, animal hospital, bakery, bottling
works, building material yard, cabinet making and carpenter's shop, clothing
manufacturer, dairy, dyeing, dry cleaning works, fruit canning or packing, ice
plants, laundry, milk distribution station, optical goods, paper boxes,
pencils, printing publication or engraving, trucking terminal.
      (3)   Gasoline, oil or alcohol storage above ground in excess of 500
gallons and other light industrial uses not listed above shall be considered
special exceptions and will require written approval of the Board of Zoning
Adjustment. The Board may grant such approval if it determines that the
proposed use will not constitute a fire hazard or emit smoke, noise, odor, or
dust which would be obnoxious or detrimental to neighboring properties.
   (B)   Required side and rear yards. On lots adjacent to a residential
district, all buildings shall be located so as to provide a minimum side and
rear yard of 25 feet along that portion of the property adjacent to the
residential district.
   (C)   Height. No building shall exceed six stories or 75 feet in height.
   (D)   Off-street automobile storage. As required in §
151.022.
(Ord. 722, passed 7-11-89)
Penalty, see § 151.999
§ 151.081 HEAVY INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT (I-2).
   Within the Heavy Industrial District, the following regulations shall apply:
   (A)   Uses permitted.
      (1)   Any uses permitted in Light Industrial Districts. (I-I).
      (2)   The following uses shall be considered special exceptions and will
require the written approval of the Board of Zoning Adjustment: Bag cleaning,
boiler and tank works; central mixing plant for cement, mortar, plaster or
paving materials; coke oven; curing, tanning and storage of raw hides and
skins; distillation of bones, coal, wood or tar; fat rendering; forge plant;
foundry or metal fabrication plant; gasoline or oil storage above the ground in
excess of 500 gallons; slaughter houses or stockyards; smelting plant; and the
manufacture of acetylene, acid, alcohol, or alcoholic beverages; ammonia,
bleaching powder, chemicals, brick, pottery, terra-cotta or tile; candles;
disinfectants; dyestuffs; fertilizers; illuminating or heating gas (or storage
of same); linseed oil, paint, oil, turpentine, varnish, soap and tar products,
or any other use in the opinion of the Board of Zoning Adjustment would emit
detrimental or obnoxious noise, vibrations, smoke, odors, dust or other
objectionable conditions beyond the confines of its property. The Board shall
grant such approval if it determines that the proposed use will not extend its
detrimental or obnoxious effects beyond the limits of the Heavy industrial
District in which it is located.
   (B)   Required side and rear yards. On lots adjacent to a residential zone
all buildings shall be located so as to provide a minimum side and rear yard of
50 feet along that portion of the property adjacent to the residential
district.
   (C)   Height. No building shall exceed ten stories or 120 feet in height.
   (D)   Off-street automobile storage. As required in §
151.022.
(Ord. 722, passed 7-11-89)
Penalty, see § 151.999
FLOOD PLAINS
§ 151.095 GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   (A)   The designation of Floodplain Districts and the regulations imposed on
this overzone are designed to:
      (1)   Protect human life and health;
      (2)   Minimize public and private property damage;
      (3)   Protect individuals from buying lands and structures which are
unsuited for intended purposes because of flood hazards;
      (4)   Minimize surface and ground water pollution and erosion of the
floodplain soils which will adversely affect human, animal or plant life;
      (5)   Control development which will, when acting alone or in combination
with similar development, create an unjustified demand for public investment in
flood control works by requiring that users vulnerable to floods, including
public facilities which serve such uses, shall be protected against flood
damage at the time of initial construction and which cause additional flood
losses if public streets, sewer, water and other utilities must be extended
below the flood level to serve the development which creates an additional
burden to the storm sewer systems and that which creates an additional burden
to the public for business interruptions, disruption of transportation routes,
interference with utility services and other factors that result in the loss of
wages, sales production and tax revenue;
      (6)   Provide for public awareness of the flooding potential;
      (7)   Control the uses allowed within the flood hazard areas, such as
fill, dumping, storage of materials, structures, buildings and other works
which, acting alone or in combination with existing or future uses, would cause
damaging flood heights and velocities by obstructing flows and reducing valley
storage in the flood heights and velocities by obstructing flows and reducing
valley storage in the flood hazard areas.
   (B)   These goals will be accomplished by:
      (1)   Restricting or prohibiting uses which are dangerous to health,
safety and property due to water or erosion hazards or which result in damaging
increases in erosion or in flood heights and velocity;
      (2)   Requiring that uses vulnerable to floods, including facilities
which serve such uses, be protected against flood damage at the time of initial
construction;
      (3)   Controlling the alteration of natural protective barriers which are
involved in a combination of floodwaters;
      (4)   Controlling filling, grading, dredging and other development which
may increase erosion or flood damage;
      (5)   Preventing or regulating the construction of flood barriers which
will unnaturally divert floodwaters or which may increase flood hazards to
other lands.
   (C)   The boundaries of the Floodplain Overzone shall be determined by
scientific and engineering studies prepared by the Federal Insurance
Administration employing customarily accepted scientific and engineering
practices of flood protection, etc., and the results thereof shall be plotted
on the official zoning map for Cadiz. Boundaries for construction or use
restrictions set forth within this chapter shall be determined by scaling
distances on the official zoning map. where interpretation is needed in order
to allow a surveyor to locate the exact boundaries of the overzone as shown on
the official zoning map, the administrative officer shall initially make the
necessary interpretation based on flood profile information.
(Ord. 722, passed 7-11-89)
§ 151.096 ESTABLISHMENT OF FLOODPLAIN OVERZONES.
   (A)   The floodplain areas within the jurisdiction of this chapter are
hereby divided into two zones - Floodway Zone (FP-1) and Floodway Fringe Zone
(FP-2). The FP-1 zones are adjacent to the stream channel and are the areas of
most frequent and severe flooding. This area is required to maintain stream
flow at flood stage. The FP-2 zones are areas of streams, overflow and
backwater. Construction in the FP-2 zone would not inhibit stream flow nor
significantly affect flooding on properties upstream.
   (B)   The overzones established by this chapter shall include all areas
designated as floodway on the National Flood Insurance program Flood Boundaries
and Floodway Map, City of Cadiz, Kentucky, dated           or an approved
subsequent amendment to that map.
   (C)   Where Floodplain Overzone areas are designated, regulations for these
areas shall be in addition to the regular zoning district requirements. The
floodplain district shall overlay regular zoning districts.
(Ord. 722, passed 7-11-89)
§ 151.097 SPECIFIC STANDARDS.
   In all areas of special flood hazard where an applicant wishes to establish
a permitted use, he/she must conform to the following requirements when
relevant:
   (A)   Encroachments. All encroachment, including fill, new construction and
substantial improvements are prohibited unless permitted by the Kentucky
Department of Natural Resources and certification by a registered professional
engineer or architect is provided which demonstrates, beyond reasonable doubt,
that said encroachments shall not result in an increase of more than a one-foot
rise in flood levels during occurrence of the base flood discharge.
   (B)   Residential construction. New construction or substantial improvement
of any residential structure shall have the lowest floor, including basement,
elevated to or above base flood elevation.
   (C)   Nonresidential construction. New construction or substantial
improvement of any commercial, industrial or other nonresidential structure
shall either have the lowest floor, including basement, elevated to the level
of the base flood elevation or together with attendant utility and sanitary
facilities, be flood-proofed so that below the base flood level the structure
is watertight with walls substantially impermeable to the passage of water and
with structural components having the capability of resisting hydrostatic and
hydrodynamic loads and effects of buoyancy. A registered professional engineer
or architect shall certify that the standards of this subsection are satisfied.
(Ord. 722, passed 7-11-89)
EXCEPTIONS AND MODIFICATIONS
§ 151.110 LOT OF RECORD.
   Where the owner of a lot of official record, which lot at the time of the
adoption of this chapter does not include sufficient land to conform to the
yard or other requirements of this chapter, an application may be submitted to
the Board of Zoning Adjustment for a variance of the terms of this chapter in
accordance with provisions of §§
151.125 through
151.127. Such lot may be used as a building site to conform with the district
in which it is located, provided, however, that the yard and other requirements
of the district are complied with as closely as is possible in the opinion of
the Board of Zoning Adjustment.
(Ord. 722, passed 7-11-89)
§ 151.111 GROUP HOUSING.
   In the case of group housing of two or more buildings to be constructed on a
plot of ground, not subdivided into the customary streets and lots, and which
will not be so subdivided or where the existing or contemplated street and lot
layout make it impracticable to apply the requirements of this chapter to the
individual building units in such group housing, the application of the terms
of this chapter may be varied by the Board of Zoning Adjustment in a manner
which will be in harmony with the character of the neighborhood. However, in no
case shall the Board of Zoning Adjustment authorize a use prohibited in the
district in which the housing is to be located, or a smaller lot area per
family than the minimum required in such district, or a greater height, or a
smaller yard area than the requirements of this chapter permit in such a
district.
(Ord. 722, passed 7-11-89)
§ 151.112 EXCEPTION ON HEIGHT LIMITS.
   The height limitations of this chapter shall not apply to church spires,
belfries, cupolas and domes not intended for human occupancy; monuments, water
towers, observation towers, transmission towers, windmills, chimneys,
smokestacks, derricks, conveyors, flag poles, radio towers, masts and aerials.
(Ord. 722, passed 7-11-89)
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 151.125 ENFORCING OFFICER.
   (A)   There is hereby created the office of Building Inspector, which shall
be by appointment by the Mayor and approved by the City Council.
   (B)   No fixed term of office shall be authorized.
   (C)   The Building Inspector shall review plans and specifications for the
purpose of alterations, removing, excavating, and new construction within the
city. The Building Inspector will be responsible for maintenance and
safekeeping of the zoning maps and zoning ordinance; prepare and issue building
permits; and determine compliance with existing building codes of all proposals
reviewed.
(Ord. 722, passed 7-11-89; Am. Ord. 04-07, passed 9-7-04)
§ 151.126 FEES, CHARGES AND EXPENSES.
   (A)   The City Council shall establish a schedule of fees, charges, and
expenses, and a collection procedure for building permits, certificates of
zoning compliance, appeals, and other matters pertaining to this chapter. The
schedule of fees shall be posted in the office of the Building Inspector, and
may be altered or amended only by the City Council.
   (B)   No permit, certificate, special exception, or variance shall be issued
unless or until such costs, charges, fees, or expenses have been paid in full.
(Ord. 722, passed 7-11-89)
§ 151.127 BUILDING PERMITS AND CERTIFICATES OF OCCUPANCY.
   (A)   Building permit required. It shall be unlawful to commence the
excavation for or the construction of any building, or any accessory buildings,
or to commence the moving or alteration of any buildings including accessory
buildings, until the Building Inspector has issued a building permit for such
work.
   (B)   Issuance of building permit. In applying to the Building Inspector for
a building permit, the applicant shall submit a dimensioned sketch or a scale
plan indicating the shape, size and height and location of all buildings to be
erected, altered or moved and of any building already on the lot. He shall also
state the existing and intended use of all such buildings and supply such other
information as may be required by the Building inspector for determining
whether the provisions of this chapter are being observed. If the proposed
excavation or construction as set forth in the application is in conformity
with the provisions of this chapter, and other ordinances of the city then in
force, the Building Inspector shall issue a building permit for such excavation
or construction. If a building permit is refused, the Building Inspector shall
state such refusal in writing, with the cause, and shall immediately thereupon
mail notice of such refusal to the applicant at the address indicated upon the
application. The Building Inspector shall grant or deny the permit within a
reasonable time from the date the application is submitted.
      (1)   The issuance of a permit shall, in no case, be construed as waiving
any provisions of this chapter.
      (2)   A building permit shall become void six months from the date of
issuance unless substantial progress has been made by that date on the project
described therein.
   (C)   Certificate of occupancy. No land or building or part thereof
hereafter erected or altered in its use or structure shall be used until the
Building Inspector shall have issued a certificate of occupancy stating that
such land, building or part thereof, and the proposed use thereof are found to
be in conformity with the provisions of this chapter. Within five days after
notification that a building or premises is ready for occupancy or use, it
shall be the duty of the Building Inspector to make a final inspection thereof
and to issue a certificate of occupancy if the land, building, or part thereof
and the proposed use thereof are found to conform with the provisions of this
chapter or, if such certification is refused, to state refusal in writing, with
the cause, and immediately thereupon mail notice of such refusal to the
applicant at the address indicated upon the application.
(Ord. 722, passed 7-11-89)
Cross-reference:
   Building permit fees, see §
150.04
§ 151.128 BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT.
   (A)   Creation and appointment. A Board of Adjustment is hereby established
in accordance with KRS 100.217. The Board of Adjustment shall consist of seven
members, not more than two of whom may be citizen members of the Planning
Commission. They shall be appointed by the Mayor subject to the approval of the
City Council. The term of membership shall be four years except that the
initial individual appointments to the Board shall be staggered so that a
proportionate number serve terms of one, two, three, and four years
respectively. Vacancies shall be filled for any unexpired term by the Mayor
subject to the approval of the City Council.
   (B)   Procedure. The Board of Adjustment shall conduct meetings at the call
of the Chairman who shall give written or oral notice to all members of the
Board at least seven days prior to the meeting, which notice shall contain the
date, time and place for the meeting and the subject or subjects which will be
discussed. All meetings of the Board shall be open to the public. The Board
shall adopt bylaws for the transaction of business and shall keep minutes and
records of all proceedings, including regulations, transactions, findings and
determinations and the number of votes for and against each question and if any
member is absent or abstains from voting, indicating the fact, all of which
shall, immediately after adoption, be filed in the office of the Board. If the
Board has no office, such records may be kept in custody of an officer of the
Board and shall be available to the general public. A transcript of the minutes
of the Board of Adjustment shall be provided if requested by a party, at the
expense of the requesting party and the transcript shall constitute the record.
The Board annually shall elect a Chairman, Vice Chairman and Secretary and any
other officers it deems necessary and any officer shall be eligible for
reeelection at the expiration of his term.
   (C)   Appeals; how taken. Appeals to the Board may be taken by any person or
entity claiming to be injuriously affected or aggrieved by an official action,
order, requirement, interpretation, grant, refusal or decision of any Zoning
Enforcement Officer. Such appeal shall be taken within 30 days after the
appellant or his agent receives notice of the action of the official by filing
with said officer and with the Board a notice of appeal specifying the grounds
thereof and giving notice of such appeal to any and all parties of record. Said
officer shall forthwith transmit to the Board all papers constituting the
record upon which the action appealed from was taken and shall be treated as
and be the respondent in such proceedings. At the public hearing on the appeal
held by the Board, any interested person may appear and enter his appearance
and all shall be given an opportunity to be heard.
   (D)   Powers. The Board of Adjustment shall have the powers set forth in KRS
100.217 through 100.271.
   (E)   Whenever the Board of Adjustments grants a variance, conditional use
or any other form of land use restriction, a certificate of land use
restriction shall be filed with the County Clerk pursuant to KRS 100.3681 et
seq.
(Ord. 722, passed 7-11-89; Am. Ord. 17-14, passed 12-5-17)
§ 151.129 AMENDMENTS.
   (A)   General. Whenever the public necessity, convenience, general welfare,
or good zoning practices require, the legislative body may by ordinance after
receiving a recommendation thereon from the Planning Commission, and subject to
procedures by law, amend, supplement, change or repeal the regulations,
restrictions, and boundaries or classification of property.
   (B)   Application for amendment. A proposal for amendment to the official
zoning map may originate with the Planning Commission, the City Commission, the
Fiscal Court, any other government body, the owner of the subject property, or
by a person having written authorization from the owner of the subject
property. A proposal for amendments to the text of this chapter may originate
with any person or governmental body. Regardless of the origin of the proposed
amendment an application must be filed with the Planning Commission requesting
the proposed amendment in such form and accompanied by such information as
required by this chapter and the Planning Commission. The Planning Commission
may require the submission of further information subsequent to the filing of
an application. At the time of filing an application, a non-returnable filing
fee shall be paid according to the schedule of fees; however, there shall be no
filing fee for an amendment requested by the City Council, the Fiscal Court,
the Planning Commission, or any governmental agency. Upon the filing of an
application for a map amendment by a governmental body, the Planning Commission
shall promptly notify the owner of the subject property by registered mail or
certified mail, receipt requested.
   (C)   Planning Commission procedure. Upon the filing of an application for
an amendment to the official zoning map or the text of this chapter, the
Planning Commission shall study and review the application as provided in this
chapter and the bylaws of the Planning Commission. The Planning Commission
shall then hold at least one public hearing after notice as required by KRS 424
and KRS 100 and shall make findings of fact and a recommendation for approval
or disapproval of the proposed amendment to the various legislative bodies or
fiscal court involved. A tie vote shall be subject to further consideration by
the Planning Commission for a period not to exceed 30 days, at the end of which
if the tie has not been broken, the application shall be forwarded to the
fiscal court or legislative body without a recommendation for approval or
disapproval.
      (1)   Notice of public hearing.
         (a)   Notice of the time, place and reason for the required public
hearing shall be given by one publication in the newspaper of general
circulation in the county, not earlier than 21 days or later than seven days
before the public hearing in accordance with KRS 424.130 and KRS 100.211.
         (b)   Any published notice shall include the street address of the
property in question, or if one is not available or practicable due to the
number of, addresses involved, a geographic description sufficient to locate
and identify the property, and the names of two streets on either side of the
property which intersect the street on which the property is located; and when
the property in question is located at the intersection of two streets, the
notice shall designate the intersection by name of both streets rather than
name the two streets on either side of the property.
         (c)   When a hearing is scheduled on a proposal by a property owner to
amend any zoning map, the following notice shall be given in addition to any
other notice required by statute, local regulation or chapter:
            1.   Notice of the hearing shall be posted conspicuously on the
property the classification of which is proposed to be changed for 14
consecutive days immediately prior to the hearing. Posting shall be as follows:
               a.   The sign shall state "zoning change" and the proposed
classification change in letters three inches in height. The time, place and
date of hearing shall be in letters at least one inch in height; and
               b.   The sign shall be constructed of durable material and shall
state the telephone number of the appropriate zoning commission; and
            2.   Notice of the hearing shall be given at least 14 days in
advance of the hearing by first class mail, with certification by the
Commission secretary or other officer of the Planning Commission that the
notice was mailed to an owner of every parcel or property adjoining the
property the classification of which is proposed to be changed. It shall be the
duty of the person or persons proposing the map amendment to furnish to the
Planning Commission the names and addresses of the owners of all adjoining
property. Records maintained by the property valuation administrator may be
relied upon conclusively to determine the identity and address of the owner. In
the event such property is in condominium or cooperative forms of ownership,
then the person notified by mail shall be the president or chairman of the
owner group which administers property commonly owned by the condominium or
cooperative owners. A joint notice may be mailed to two or more co-owners of an
adjoining property who are listed in the property valuation administrators
records as having the same address.
         (d)   In addition to the public notice requirements of this section,
when the Planning Commission, Fiscal Court or legislative body of any planning
unit originates a proposal to amend the zoning map of that unit, notice of the
public hearing shall be given at least 30 days in advance of the hearing by
first class mail to an owner of every parcel of property the classification of
which is proposed to be changed. Records by the property valuation
administrator may be relied upon to determine the identity and address of the
owner.
      (2)   Public hearing on application. After notice of the public hearing
as provided for above, the Planning Commission shall hold a public hearing on
the proposed amendment.
      (3)   Recommendation of Commission for zoning map amendment.
         (a)   Before recommending to the city commissions that an application
for amendment to the zoning map be granted, the Planning Commission, or the
legislative body must find that the map amendment is in agreement with the
community's comprehensive plan, or in the absence of such a finding, that the
original zoning classification given to the property was inappropriate or
improper, or there have been major changes of an economic, physical or social
nature within the area involved which were not anticipated in the comprehensive
plan adopted by the Planning Commission and which have substantially altered
the basic character of the area.
         (b)   After voting to recommend that an application for amendment to
the official zoning map be granted or denied, the Planning Commission shall
forward its findings of fact and recommendation in writing to the City Council.
      (4)   Action by City Council on zoning map amendments.
         (a)   The City Council shall not act upon a proposed amendment to the
zoning map until it shall have received the written findings of fact
recommendation thereon from the Planning Commission. The Planning Commission
recommendation relating to the proposed amendment shall be final and the map
amendment shall be automatically implemented subject to the provisions of KRS
100.347, all as set forth in the Planning Commission recommendations, unless
within 21 days after the final act by the Planning Commission:
            1.   Any aggrieved person files a written request with the Planning
Commission that the final decision shall be made by the appropriate legislative
body or fiscal court; or
            2.   The appropriate legislative body or fiscal court files a
notice with the Planning Commission that the legislative body or fiscal court
shall decide the map amendment.
         (b)   It shall take a majority of the entire City Council to override
the recommendation of the Planning Commission and it shall take a majority of
the City Council to adopt a zoning map amendment whenever the Planning
Commission forwards the application to the City Council without a
recommendation of approval or disapproval due to a tie vote. Unless a majority
of the entire City Council votes to override the Planning Commission's
recommendation, such recommendation shall become final and effective and if a
recommendation of approval was made by the Planning Commission, the ordinance
of the fiscal court or legislative body adopting the zoning map amendment shall
be deemed to have passed by operation of law.
         (c)   If the City Council chooses to decide the map amendment, the
city shall take final action upon a proposed zoning map amendment within 90
days of the date upon which the Planning Commission takes its action upon such
proposal. The City Council shall also notify the Enforcement Officer and the
Chairman of the Planning Commission as the proposed map amendment will be heard
by the City Council prior to the City Council's final action. The City Council
shall complete and file for recording with the County Clerk, a certificate of
land use restriction for any map amendment approved by the Commission and/or
the City Council.
      (5)   Recommendation of Commission for text amendment. After voting to
recommend that an application for amendment to the text of this chapter be
granted or denied, the Planning Commission shall forward its recommendation in
writing to the City Council. In the case of a proposed amendment originating
within the City Council, the Planning Commission shall make its recommendation
within 60 days of its receipt of the proposed amendment.
      (6)   Action by City Council on text amendments. The City Council shall
not act upon a proposed amendment to the text of this chapter until it shall
have received the written recommendation thereon from the Planning Commission.
If the proposed amendment originated with the Planning Commission, it shall
take a majority of the entire City Council to override the recommendation of
the Commission. If the proposed amendment originated with the City Council, it
shall take the affirmative vote of the majority of the City Council to adopt
the proposed amendment. The City Council shall take final action within 90 days
of the date upon which the Planning Commission takes its action upon such
proposal.
   (D)   Special conditions to the granting of zoning changes. As a condition
to the granting of any zoning change, the Planning Commission may require
substantial construction be initiated within two years; provided that such
zoning change not revert to its original designation unless there has been a
public hearing.
(Ord. 722, passed 7-11-89)
§ 151.130 REMEDIES.
   In case any building or structure is, or is proposed to be, erected,
constructed, reconstructed, repaired, converted, or maintained, or any
building, structure, or land is, or is proposed to be, used in violation of
this chapter, the Building Inspector or any other appropriate authority, or any
adjacent or neighboring property owner who would be damaged by such violation,
in addition to other remedies, may institute an injunction, mandamus, or other
appropriate action or proceeding to prevent the work or occupancy of such
building, structure, or land in any court of competent jurisdiction.
(Ord. 722, passed 7-11-89)
§ 151.999 PENALTY.
   Any person violating any provisions of this chapter shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor, and upon conviction shall be fined no less than $10 nor more than
$100 for each offense. Each day such violation shall continue shall constitute
a separate offense.
(Ord. 722, passed 7-11-89)
CHAPTER 152: FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
Section
General Provisions
   
152.01   Statutory authorization
   
152.02   Findings of fact
   
152.03   Statement of purpose
   
152.04   Objectives
   
152.05   Definitions
   
152.06   Lands to which this chapter applies
   
152.07   Basis for establishing the special flood hazard areas
   
152.08   Establishment of development permit
   
152.09   Compliance
   
152.10   Abrogation and greater restrictions
   
152.11   Interpretation
   
152.12   Warning and disclaimer of liability
   
152.13   Enforcement, violation notice and penalties
Administration
   
152.25   Designation of local administrator
   
152.26   Establishment of development permit
   
152.27   Duties and responsibilities of the local administrator
Provisions for Flood Hazard Reduction
   
152.40   General construction standards
   
152.41   Specific standards
   
152.42   Standards for streams without established base flood elevation and/or
floodways
   
152.43   Standards for shallow flooding zones
   
152.44   Standards for subdivision proposals
   
152.45   Standards for accessory structures in all zones beginning with the
letter “A”
   
152.46   Critical facilities
Appeals and Variance Procedures
   
152.60   Nature of variances
   
152.61   Variance and Appeal Board
   
152.62   Variance procedures
   
152.63   Conditions for variances
   
152.64   Variance notification
   
152.65   Historic structures
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 152.01 STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION.
   The Legislature of the Commonwealth of Kentucky has in KRS 82.082 delegated
to local government units the authority to adopt regulations designed to
promote the public health, safety, and general welfare of its citizenry.
Therefore, the City Council of Cadiz, Kentucky, hereby adopts the following
floodplain management chapter, as follows.
(Ord. 13-02, passed 3-5-13)
§ 152.02 FINDINGS OF FACT.
   (A)   The flood hazard areas of Cadiz are subject to periodic inundation
which results in loss of life and property, health and safety hazards,
disruption of commerce and governmental services, extraordinary public
expenditures for flood protection and relief, and impairment of the tax base,
all which adversely affect the public health, safety, and general welfare.
   (B)   These flood losses are caused by the cumulative effect of obstructions
in floodplains causing increased flood height and velocity, and by the location
in flood hazard areas of uses vulnerable to floods or hazardous to other lands
which are inadequately elevated, flood-proofed, or otherwise protected from
flood damage.
(Ord. 13-02, passed 3-5-13)
§ 152.03 STATEMENT OF PURPOSE.
   It is the purpose of this chapter to promote the public health, safety, and
general welfare and to minimize public and private loss due to flooding by
provisions designed to:
   (A)   Restrict or prohibit uses which are dangerous to health, safety, and
property due to water erosion hazards, or which result in damaging increases in
erosion or in flood height or velocity;
   (B)   Require that uses vulnerable to floods, including facilities which
serve such uses, be protected against flood damage at the time of initial
construction;
   (C)   Control the alteration of natural floodplains, stream channels, and
natural protective barriers which accommodate or channel flood waters;
   (D)   Control filling, grading, dredging, and other development which may
increase erosion or flood damage; and
   (E)   Prevent or regulate the construction of flood barriers which will
unnaturally divert floodwaters or which may increase flood hazards to other
areas.
(Ord. 13-02, passed 3-5-13)
§ 152.04 OBJECTIVES.
   The objectives of this chapter are to:
   (A)   Protect human life and health;
   (B)   Minimize expenditure of public money for costly flood control
projects;
   (C)   Minimize the need for rescue and relief efforts associated with
flooding and generally undertaken at the expense of the general public;
   (D)   Minimize prolonged business interruptions;
   (E)   Minimize damage to public facilities and utilities such as water and
gas mains, electric, telephone and sewer lines; streets and bridges located in
areas of special flood hazard;
   (F)   Help maintain a stable tax base by providing for the sound use and
development of areas of special flood hazard or other flood-prone areas in such
a manner as to minimize future flood blighted areas caused by flooding;
   (G)   Ensure that potential homebuyers are on notice that property is in a
special flood hazard area; and
   (H)   Ensure that those who occupy a special flood hazard area assume
responsibility for their actions.
(Ord. 13-02, passed 3-5-13)
§ 152.05 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   A ZONE. Special flood hazard areas inundated by the 1% annual chance flood
(100-year flood). Base flood elevations (BFEs) are not determined.
   A99 ZONE. That part of the SFHA inundated by the 100-year flood which is to
be protected from the 100-year flood by a federal flood protection system under
construction. No base flood elevations are determined.
   ACCESSORY STRUCTURE (APPURTENANT STRUCTURE). A structure located on the same
parcel of property as the principal structure and the use of which is
incidental to the use of the principal structure. Accessory structures should
constitute a minimal initial investment, may not be used for human habitation,
and should be designed to have minimal flood damage potential. Examples of
accessory structures are detached garages, carports, storage sheds, pole barns,
and hay sheds.
   ACCESSORY USE. A use which is incidental and subordinate to the principal
use of the parcel of land on which it is located.
   ADDITION (TO AN EXISTING STRUCTURE). Any walled and roofed expansion to the
perimeter or height of a structure.
   AE ZONES. Special flood hazard areas inundated by the 1% annual chance flood
(100-year flood). Base flood elevations (BFEs) are determined.
   AH ZONE. An area of 100-year shallow flooding where depths are between one
and three feet (usually shallow ponding). Base flood elevations are determined.
   AO ZONE. An area of 100-year shallow flooding where water depth is between
one and three feet (usually sheet flow on sloping terrain). Flood depths are
determined.
   APPEAL. A request for a review of the Floodplain Administrator's
interpretation of any provision of this chapter or from the Floodplain
Administrator's ruling on a request for a variance.
   AR/A1 - A30, AR/AE, AR/AH, AR/AO, AND AR/A ZONES. Special flood hazard areas
(SFHAs) that result from the de-certification of a previously accredited flood
protection system that is in the process of being restored to provide a 100-
year or greater level of flood protection. After restoration is complete these
areas will still experience residual flooding from other flooding sources.
   AREA OF SHALLOW FLOODING. A designated AO or AH Zone on a community's Flood
Insurance Rate Map (FIRM) where the base flood depths range from one to three
feet, there is no clearly defined channel, the path of flooding is
unpredictable and indeterminate; and velocity flow may be evident. This
flooding is characterized by ponding or sheet flow.
   BASE FLOOD. A flood which has a 1% chance of being equaled or exceeded in
any given year (also called the 100-year flood). Base flood is the term used
throughout this chapter.
   BASE FLOOD ELEVATION (BFE). The elevation shown on the Flood Insurance Rate
Map (FIRM) for Zones AE, AH, A1-30, AR, AR/A, AR/AE, AR/A1-A30, AR/AH, and AR/
AO that indicates the water surface elevation resulting from a flood that has a
1% or greater chance of being equaled or exceeded in any given year.
   BASEMENT. Any area of a structure having its floor sub-grade (below ground
level) on all sides.
   BUILDING. See definition for STRUCTURE.
   COMMUNITY. A political entity having the authority to adopt and enforce
floodplain ordinances for the area under its jurisdiction.
   COMMUNITY FLOOD HAZARD AREA (CFHA). An area that has been determined by the
Floodplain Administrator (or other delegated, designated, or qualified
community official) from available technical studies, historical information,
and other available and reliable sources, which may be subject to periodic
inundation by floodwaters that can adversely affect the public health, safety
and general welfare. This includes areas downstream from dams.
   COMMUNITY RATING SYSTEM (CRS). A program developed by the Federal Insurance
Administration to provide incentives to those communities in the regular
program to go beyond the minimum floodplain management requirements to develop
extra measures for protection from flooding.
   CRITICAL FACILITY. Any property that, if flooded, would result in severe
consequences to public health and safety or a facility which, if unusable or
unreachable because of flooding, would seriously and adversely affect the
health and safety of the public. Critical facilities include, but are not
limited to: housing likely to contain occupants not sufficiently mobile to
avoid injury or death unaided during a flood; schools, nursing homes,
hospitals, police, fire and emergency response installations, vehicle and
equipment storage facilities, emergency operations centers likely to be called
upon before, during and after a flood, public and private utility facilities
important to maintaining or restoring normal services before, during and after
a flood, and those facilities or installations which produce, use or store
volatile, flammable, explosive, toxic and/or water-reactive materials,
hazardous materials or hazardous waste.
   D ZONE. An area in which the flood hazard is undetermined.
   DEVELOPMENT. Any manmade change to improved or unimproved real estate,
including, but not limited to, buildings or other structures, mining, dredging,
filling, grading, paving, excavating, drilling operations, or storage of
equipment or materials.
   ELEVATED STRUCTURE. For insurance proposes, a non-basement structure built
to have the lowest floor elevated above ground level by foundation walls, shear
walls, posts, piers, pilings or columns.
   ELEVATION CERTIFICATE. A statement certified by a registered professional
engineer or surveyor on the FEMA-approved form in effect at the time of
certification that verifies a structure's elevation and other related
information to verify compliance with this chapter.
   EMERGENCY PROGRAM. The initial phase under which a community participates in
the NFIP, intended to provide a first layer amount of insurance at subsidized
rates on all insurable structures in that community before the effective date
of the initial FIRM.
   ENCLOSURE. That portion of a structure below the lowest floor used solely
for parking of vehicles, limited storage, or access to the structure.
   ENCROACHMENT. The physical advance or infringement of uses, plant growth,
fill, excavation, structures, or development into a floodplain, which may
impede or alter the flow capacity of a floodplain.
   EXISTING CONSTRUCTION. Any structure for which the start of construction
commenced before the effective date of the FIRM or before January 1, 1975, for
FIRMs effective before that date. Existing construction may also be referred to
as existing structures.
   EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including, at a minimum the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed before the effective date
of the first floodplain management ordinance adopted by a community.
   EXPANSION TO AN EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. The
preparation of additional sites by the construction of facilities for servicing
the lots on which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads).
   FIVE-HUNDRED YEAR FLOOD. The flood that has a 0.2% chance of being equaled
or exceeded in any year. Areas subject to the 500-year flood have a moderate
risk of flooding.
   FLOOD or FLOODING. A general and temporary condition of partial or complete
inundation of normally dry land areas from:
      (1)   The overflow of inland or tidal waters.
      (2)   The unusual and rapid accumulation or runoff of surface waters from
any source.
      (3)   Mudslides which are proximately caused by flooding and are akin to
a river of liquid and flowing mud on the surfaces of normally dry land areas,
as when earth is carried by a current of water and deposited along the path of
the current.
      (4)   The collapse or subsidence of land along the shore of a lake or
other body of water as a result of erosion or undermining caused by waves or
currents of water exceeding anticipated cyclical levels or suddenly caused by
an unusually high water level in a natural body of water, accompanied by a
severe storm, or by an unanticipated force of nature, such as flash flood or an
abnormal tidal surge, or by some similarly unusual and unforeseeable event
which results in flooding.
   FLOOD BOUNDARY AND FLOODWAY MAP (FBFM). A map on which the Federal Emergency
Management Agency (FEMA) has delineated the areas of flood hazards and the
regulatory floodway.
   FLOOD HAZARD BOUNDARY MAP (FHBM). A map on which the boundaries of the
flood, mudslide (i.e. mudflow), and flood-related erosion areas having special
hazards have been designated as Zones A, M, and/or E by the Federal Emergency
Management Agency (FEMA).
   FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (FIRM). A map on which the Federal Emergency
Management Agency (FEMA) has delineated special flood hazard areas and risk
premium zones.
   FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY. The report provided by the Federal Emergency
Management Agency (FEMA) containing flood profiles, the Flood Insurance Rate
Map (FIRM), and/or the Flood Boundary Floodway Map (FBFM), and the water
surface elevation of the base flood.
   FLOODPLAIN or FLOOD-PRONE AREA. Any land area susceptible to being inundated
by flood waters from any source.
   FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR. The individual appointed by the community to
administer and enforce the floodplain management chapter.
   FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT. The operation of an overall program of corrective and
preventive measures for reducing flood damage and preserving and enhancing
natural resources in the floodplain, including but not limited to emergency
preparedness plans, flood control works, floodplain management ordinances, and
open space plans.
   FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT REGULATIONS. This chapter and other zoning ordinances,
subdivision regulations, building codes, health regulations, special purpose
ordinances (such as grading and erosion control), and other applications of
police power, which control development in flood-prone areas. This term
describes federal, state and/or local regulations, in any combination thereof,
which provide standards for the purpose of flood damage prevention and
reduction.
   FLOODPROOFING. Any combination of structural and non-structural additions,
changes, or adjustments to structures which reduce or eliminate flood damage to
real estate or improved real property, water and sanitation facilities,
structures, and their contents.
   FLOODPROOFING CERTIFICATE. A certification by a registered professional
engineer or architect, the FEMA form in effect at the time of certification
stating that a non-residential structure, together with attendant utilities and
sanitary facilities is watertight to a specified design elevation with walls
that are substantially impermeable to the passage of water and all structural
components are capable of resisting hydrostatic and hydrodynamic flood forces,
including the effects of buoyancy and anticipated debris impact forces.
   FLOODWAY. The channel of a river or other watercourse and the adjacent land
areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the base flood without
cumulatively increasing the water surface elevation more than one foot. Also
referred to as the regulatory floodway.
   FLOODWAY FRINGE. That area of the floodplain on either side of the
regulatory floodway.
   FRAUD AND VICTIMIZATION. As related in §§
152.60 through
152.65, Appeals and Variance Procedures, of this chapter, means that the
variance granted must not cause fraud on or victimization of the public. In
examining this requirement, the City Council will consider the fact that every
newly constructed structure adds to government responsibilities and remains a
part of the community for 50 to 100 years. Structures that are permitted to be
constructed below the base flood elevation are subject during all those years
to increased risk of damage from floods, while future owners of the property
and the community as a whole are subject to all the costs, inconvenience,
danger, and suffering that those increased flood damages may incur. In
addition, future owners may purchase the property, unaware that it is subject
to potential flood damage, and can be insured only at very high flood insurance
rates.
   FREEBOARD. A factor of safety, usually expressed in feet above the BFE,
which is applied for the purposes of floodplain management. It is used to
compensate for the many unknown factors that could contribute to flood heights
greater than those calculated for the base flood. Freeboard must be applied not
just to the elevation of the lowest floor or floodproofing level, but also to
the level of protection provided to all components of the structure, such as
building utilities, HVAC components, and the like.
   FUNCTIONALLY DEPENDENT USE FACILITY. A facility, structure, or other
development, which cannot be used for its intended purpose unless it is located
or carried out in close proximity to water. The term includes only a docking or
port facility necessary for the loading and unloading of cargo or passengers,
shipbuilding, or ship repair. The term does not include long-term storage,
manufacture, sales, or service facilities.
   GOVERNING BODY. The local governing unit, i.e. county or municipality that
is empowered to adopt and implement ordinances to provide for the public
health, safety and general welfare of its citizenry.
   HAZARD POTENTIAL. The possible adverse incremental consequences that result
from the release of water or stored contents due to failure of a dam or mis-
operation of a dam or appurtenances. The hazard potential classification of a
dam does not reflect in any way the current condition of a dam and its
appurtenant structures (e.g. safety, structural integrity, flood routing
capacity).
   HIGHEST ADJACENT GRADE. The highest natural elevation of the ground surface,
prior to construction, next to the proposed walls of a structure.
   HISTORIC STRUCTURE. Any structure that is:
      (1)   Listed individually in the National Register of Historic Places (a
listing maintained by the Department of Interior) or preliminarily determined
by the Secretary of the Interior as meeting the requirements for individual
listing on the National Register;
      (2)   Certified or preliminarily determined by the Secretary of the
Interior as contributing to the historical significance of a registered
historic district or a district preliminarily determined by the Secretary to
qualify as a registered historic district;
      (3)   Individually listed on a state inventory of historic places in
states with historic preservation programs which have been approved by the
Secretary of the Interior; or
      (4)   Individually listed on a local inventory of historic places in
communities with historic preservation programs that have been certified
either:
         (a)   By an approved state program as determined by the Secretary of
the Interior; or
         (b)   Directly by the Secretary of the Interior in states without
approved programs.
   INCREASED COST OF COMPLIANCE (ICC). Increased cost of compliance coverage
means under the standard flood insurance policy the cost to repair a
substantially flood damaged building that exceeds the minimal repair cost and
that is required to bring a substantially damaged building into compliance with
the local flood damage prevention ordinance. Acceptable mitigation measures are
floodproofing (nonresidential), relocation, elevation, demolition, or any
combination thereof. ICC coverage is available on residential and non-
residential buildings (this category includes public or government buildings,
such as schools, libraries, and municipal buildings) insured under the NFIP.
   LETTER OF MAP CHANGE (LOMC). An official FEMA determination, by letter, to
amend or revise effective Flood Insurance Rate Maps, Flood Boundary and
Floodway Maps, and Flood Insurance Studies. LOMC's include the following
categories:
      (1)   LETTER OF MAP AMENDMENT (LOMA). A revision based on technical data
showing that a property was inadvertently included in a designated SFHA. A LOMA
amends the current effective FIRM and establishes that a specific property is
not located in a SFHA.
      (2)   LETTER OF MAP REVISION (LOMR). A revision based on technical data
that, usually due to manmade changes, shows changes to flood zones, flood
elevations, floodplain and floodway delineations, and planimetric features.
      (3)   LETTER OF MAP REVISION - BASED ON FILL (LOMR-F). A determination
that a structure or parcel has been elevated by properly placed engineered fill
above the BFE and is, therefore, excluded from the SHFA.
   LEVEE. A man-made structure, usually an earthen embankment, designed and
constructed in accordance with sound engineering practices to contain, control,
or divert the flow of water so as to provide protection from temporary
flooding.
   LEVEE SYSTEM. A flood protection system that consists of a levee, or levees,
and associated structures, such as closure and drainage devices, which are
constructed and operated in accordance with sound engineering practices.
   LIMITED STORAGE. An area used for storage and intended to be limited to
incidental items which can withstand exposure to the elements and have low
flood damage potential. Such an area must be of flood resistant material, void
of utilities except for essential lighting, and cannot be temperature
controlled.
   LOWEST ADJACENT GRADE. The lowest elevation of the sidewalk, patio, attached
garage, deck support, basement entryway or grade immediately next to the
structure and after the completion of construction.
   LOWEST FLOOR. The lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area including
basement. An unfinished or flood resistant enclosure, usable solely for parking
of vehicles, structure access, or storage in an area other than a basement area
is not considered a structure's lowest floor, provided that the enclosure is
not built so as to render the structure in violation of the applicable non-
elevation design requirements of this chapter.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. A structure, transportable in one or more sections, which
is built on a permanent chassis and is designed to be used with or without a
permanent foundation when connected or attached to the required utilities. The
term also includes park trailers, travel trailers, and similar transportable
structures placed on a site for 180 consecutive days or longer and intended to
be improved property. The term manufactured home does not include a
recreational vehicle (see RECREATIONAL VEHICLE).
   MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A parcel (or contiguous parcels) of
land divided into two or more manufactured home lots for rent or sale.
   MAP. The Flood Hazard Boundary Map (FHBM) or the Flood Insurance Rate Map
(FIRM) for a community issued by the Federal Emergency Management Agency
(FEMA).
   MAP PANEL NUMBER. The four-digit number on a flood map, followed by a letter
suffix, assigned by FEMA. The first four digits represent the map panel. The
letter suffix represents the number of times the map panel has been revised.
(The letter "A" is not used by FEMA, the letter "B" is the first revision.)
   MARKET VALUE. The property value (as agreed between a willing buyer and
seller), excluding the value of the land as established by what the local real
estate market will bear. Market value of the structure can be established by
independent certified appraisal; replacement cost depreciated by age of
structure (actual cash value) or adjusted assessed values.
   MEAN SEA LEVEL (MSL). The average height of the sea for all stages of the
tide. For the purposes of the National Flood Insurance Program, the MSL is used
as a reference for establishing various elevations within the floodplain as
shown on the community's FIRM. For purposes of this chapter, the term is
synonymous with either National Geodetic Vertical Datum (NGVD) of 1929 or North
American Vertical Datum (NAVD) of 1988.
   MITIGATION. Sustained actions taken to reduce or eliminate long-term risk to
people and property from hazards and their effects. The purpose of mitigation
is twofold: to protect people and structures, and to minimize the costs of
disaster response and recovery.
   MUDSLIDE (I.E. MUDFLOW). Describes a condition where there is a river, flow,
or inundation of liquid mud down a hillside, usually as a result of a dual
condition of loss of brush cover and the subsequent accumulation of water on
the ground, preceded by a period of unusually heavy or sustained rain. A
mudslide (i.e. mudflow) may occur as a distinct phenomenon while a landslide is
in progress, and will be recognized as such by the Floodplain Administrator
only if the mudflow, and not the landslide, is the proximate cause of damage
that occurs.
   MUDSLIDE (I.E. MUDFLOW) AREA MANAGEMENT. The operation of and overall
program of corrective and preventative measures for reducing mudslide (i.e.
mudflow) damage, including but not limited to emergency preparedness plans,
mudslide control works, and floodplain management regulations.
   MUDSLIDE (I.E. MUDFLOW) PRONE AREA. An area with land surfaces and slopes of
unconsolidated material where the history, geology, and climate indicate a
potential for mudflow.
   NATIONAL FLOOD INSURANCE PROGRAM (NFIP). The federal program that makes
flood insurance available to owners of property in participating communities
nationwide through the cooperative efforts of the federal government and the
private insurance industry.
   NATIONAL GEODETIC VERTICAL DATUM (NGVD). As corrected in 1929, a vertical
control used as a reference for establishing varying elevations within the
floodplain. (Generally used as the vertical datum on the older FIRM's. Refer to
FIRM legend panel for correct datum.)
   NEW CONSTRUCTION. Structures for which the start of construction commenced
on or after the effective date of a floodplain management regulation adopted by
a community and includes any subsequent improvements to such structures.
   NEW MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed on or after the effective
date of floodplain management regulations adopted by a community.
   NON-RESIDENTIAL. Structures that are not designed for human habitation,
including but is not limited to: small business concerns, churches, schools,
farm structures (including grain bins and silos), pool houses, clubhouses,
recreational structures, mercantile structures, agricultural and industrial
structures, warehouses, and hotels or motels with normal room rentals for less
than six months duration.
   NORTH AMERICAN VERTICAL DATUM (NAVD). As corrected in 1988, a vertical
control used as a reference for establishing varying elevations within the
floodplain. (Generally used on the newer FIRMs and Digitally Referenced FIRMs
(DFIRMs). (Refer to FIRM or DFIRM panel legend for correct datum.)
   OBSTRUCTION. Includes but is not limited to any dam, wall, embankment,
levee, dike, pile, abutment, protection, excavation, channelization, bridge,
conduit, culvert, structure, wire, fence, rock, gravel, refuse, fill,
structure, vegetation or other material in, along, across or projecting into
any watercourse which may alter, impede, retard or change the direction and/or
velocity of the flow of water, due to its location, its propensity to snare or
collect debris carried by the flow of water, or its likelihood of being carried
downstream.
   ONE-HUNDRED YEAR FLOOD (100-YEAR FLOOD) (see BASE FLOOD). The flood that has
a 1% or greater chance of being equaled or exceeded in any given year. Any
flood zone that begins with the letter A is subject to inundation by the 100-
year flood. Over the life of a 30-year loan, there is a 26% chance of
experiencing such a flood with the SFHA.
   PARTICIPATING COMMUNITY. A community that voluntarily elects to participate
in the NFIP by adopting and enforcing floodplain management regulations that
are consistent with the standards of the NFIP.
   PRE-FIRM CONSTRUCTION. New construction or substantial improvements for
which start of construction occurred on or before December 31, 1974, or before
the effective date of the initial FIRM of the community, whichever is later.
   POST-FIRM CONSTRUCTION. New construction or substantial improvements for
which start of construction occurred after December 31, 1974, or on or after
the effective date of the initial FIRM of the community, whichever is later.
   PROBATION. A FEMA imposed change in community's status resulting from
violations and deficiencies in the administration and enforcement of the local
floodplain management regulations.
   PROGRAM DEFICIENCY. A defect in a community's floodplain management
regulations or administrative procedures that impairs effective implementation
of those floodplain management standards.
   PUBLIC SAFETY AND NUISANCE. Anything which is injurious to safety or health
of an entire community or neighborhood, or any considerable number of persons,
or unlawfully obstructs the free passage or use, in the customary manner, of
any navigable lake, or river, bay, stream, canal, or basin.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. A vehicle that is:
      (1)   Built on a single chassis;
      (2)   Four hundred square feet or less when measured at the largest
horizontal projection;
      (3)   Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable to a light
duty truck; and
      (4)   Designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling but as
temporary living quarters for recreational, camping, travel, or seasonal use.
   REGULAR PROGRAM. The phase of a community's participation in the NFIP where
more comprehensive floodplain management requirements are imposed and higher
amounts of insurance are available based upon risk zones and flood elevations
determined in the FIS.
   REGULATORY FLOODWAY. The channel of a river or other watercourse and the
adjacent land areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the base flood
without cumulatively increasing the water surface elevation more than one foot.
See BASE FLOOD.
   REMEDY A VIOLATION. The process by which a community brings a structure or
other development into compliance with state or local floodplain management
regulations, or, if this is not possible, to reduce the impact of non-
compliance. Reduced impact may include protecting the structure or other
affected development from flood damages, implementing the enforcement
provisions of the ordinance or otherwise deterring future similar violations,
or reducing state or federal financing exposure with regard to the structure or
other development.
   REPAIR. The reconstruction or renewal of any part of an existing structure.
   REPETITIVE LOSS. Flood-related damages sustained by a structure on two
separate occasions during a ten-year period for which the cost of repairs at
the time of each such flood event, on average, equals or exceeds 25% of the
market value of the structure before the damage occurred.
   REPETITIVE LOSS PROPERTY. Any insurable building for which two or more
claims of more than $1,000 were paid by the National Flood Insurance Program
(NFIP) within any rolling ten-year period, since 1978. At least two of the
claims must be more than ten days apart, but within ten years of each other. A
RL property may or may not be currently insured by the NFIP.
   RIVERINE. Relating to, formed by, or resembling a river (including
tributaries), stream, brook, and the like.
   SECTION 1316. That section of the National Flood Insurance Act of 1968, as
amended, which states that no new or renewal flood insurance coverage shall be
provided for any property that the Administrator finds has been declared by a
duly constituted state or local zoning authority or other authorized public
body to be in violation of state or local laws, regulations, or ordinances that
are intended to discourage or otherwise restrict land development or occupancy
in flood-prone areas.
   SEVERE REPETITIVE LOSS STRUCTURE. Any insured property that has met at least
one of the following paid flood loss criteria since 1978, regardless of
ownership:
      (1)   Four or more separate claim payments of more than $5,000 each
(including building and contents payments); or
      (2)   Two or more separate claim payments (building payments only) where
the total of the payments exceeds the current market value of the property.
      (3)   In either case, two of the claim payments must have occurred within
ten years of each other. Multiple losses at the same location within ten days
of each other are counted as one loss, with the payment amounts added together.
   SHEET FLOW AREA. See AREA OF SHALLOW FLOODING.
   SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA (SFHA). That portion of the floodplain subject to
inundation by the base flood and/or flood-related erosion hazards as shown on a
FHBM or FIRM as Zone A, AE, A1 - A30, AH, AO, or AR.
   START OF CONSTRUCTION (includes substantial improvement and other proposed
new development). The date a building permit is issued, provided the actual
start of construction, repair, reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition
placement or other improvement is within 180 days of the permit date. The
actual start means the first placement of permanent construction of a structure
(including manufactured home) on a site, such as the pouring of slabs or
footings, the installation of piles, construction of columns, or any work
beyond the stage of excavation; or the placement of a manufactured home on a
foundation. Permanent construction does not include land preparation, such as
clearing, grading, and filling; nor does it include the installation of streets
and/or walkways; nor does it include excavation for a basement, footings,
piers, or foundations or the erection of temporary forms; the installation on
the property of accessory structures, such as garages or sheds not occupied as
dwelling units or not part of the main structure. For a substantial
improvement, the actual start of construction means the first alteration of any
wall, ceiling, floor, or other structural part of a building, whether or not
that alteration affects the external dimensions of the structure.
   STRUCTURE. A walled and roofed building, including gas or liquid storage
tank that is principally above ground, as well as a manufactured home.
   SUBDIVISION. Any division, for the purposes of sale, lease, or development,
either on the installment plan or upon any and all other plans, terms and
conditions, of any tract or parcel of land into two or more lots or parcels.
   SUBROGATION. A legal action brought by FEMA to recover insurance money paid
out where all or part of the damage can be attributed to acts or omissions by a
community or other third party.
   SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE. Damage of any origin sustained by a structure whereby
the cost of restoring the structure to its before damaged condition would equal
or exceed 50% of the market value of the structure before the damage occurred.
   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT. Any reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition, or
other improvement of a structure, taking place during a one-year period in
which the cumulative percentage of improvements equals or exceeds 50% of the
market value of the structure before the start of construction of the
improvement. This term includes structures which have incurred substantial
damage, regardless of the actual repair work performed. The term does not,
however, include either:
      (1)   Any project for improvement of a structure to correct existing
violations of state or local health, sanitary, or safety code specifications
which have been identified by the local Code Enforcement Official and which are
the minimum necessary to assure safe living conditions; or
      (2)   Any alteration of a historic structure provided that the alteration
will not preclude the structure's continued designation as a historic
structure.
   SUBSTANTIALLY IMPROVED EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARKS OR SUBDIVISIONS.
Repair, reconstruction, rehabilitation, or improvement of the streets,
utilities, and pads equaling or exceeding 50% of the value of the streets,
utilities, and pads before the repair, reconstruction, or improvement
commenced.
   SUSPENSION. Removal of a participating community from the NFIP for failure
to enact and/or enforce floodplain management regulations required for
participation in the NFIP.
   UTILITIES. Include, but not limited to, electrical, heating, ventilation,
plumbing, and air conditioning equipment that service the structure and the
site.
   VARIANCE. Relief from some or all of the requirements of this chapter.
   VIOLATION. Failure of a structure or other development to fully comply with
this chapter. A structure or other development without the elevation
certificate, other certifications, or other evidence of compliance required in
this chapter is presumed to be in violation until such time as that
documentation is provided.
   WATERCOURSE. A lake, river, creek, stream, wash, channel or other
topographic feature on or over which water flows at least periodically.
   WATER SURFACE ELEVATION. The height, in relation to the National Geodetic
Vertical Datum (NGVD) of 1929, (or other datum, where specified) of floods of
various magnitudes and frequencies in the floodplains of coastal or riverine
areas.
   WATERSHED. All the area within a geographic boundary from which water,
sediments, dissolved materials, and other transportable materials drain or are
carried by water to a common outlet, such as a point on a larger stream, lake,
or underlying aquifer.
   X (SHADED) AND B ZONES. Areas of the 0.2% annual chance (500-year) flood
that are outside of the SFHA, areas subject to the 100-year flood with average
depths of less than one foot or with contributing drainage area less than one
square mile, and areas protected by levees from the base flood.
   X (UNSHADED) AND C ZONES. Areas determined to be outside the 500-year
floodplain.
   ZONE. A geographical area shown on a Flood Hazard Boundary Map or a Flood
Insurance Rate Map that reflects the severity or type of flooding in the area.
(Ord. 13-02, passed 3-5-13)
§ 152.06 LANDS TO WHICH THIS CHAPTER APPLIES.
   This chapter shall apply to all special flood hazard areas (SFHA), areas
applicable to KRS 151.250 and, as determined by the Floodplain Administrator or
other delegated, designated, or qualified community official as determined by
the City Council from available technical studies, historical information, and
other available and reliable sources, areas within the jurisdiction of the City
Council which may be subject to periodic inundation by floodwaters that can
adversely affect the public health, safety, and general welfare of the citizens
of Cadiz.
(Ord. 13-02, passed 3-5-13)
§ 152.07 BASIS FOR ESTABLISHING THE SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREAS.
   The areas of special flood hazard identified by the Federal Emergency
Management Agency (FEMA) in the Flood Insurance Study (FIS) for Trigg County,
dated March 19, 2013, with the accompanying Flood Insurance Rate Maps (FIRMS),
other supporting data and any subsequent amendments thereto, are hereby adopted
by reference and declared to be a part of these regulations by Cadiz, and for
those land areas acquired by Cadiz through annexation. This FIS and attendant
mapping is the minimum area of applicability of this chapter and may be
supplemented by studies for other areas which allow implementation of this
chapter and which are recommended to the City Council by the Floodplain
Administrator and are enacted by City Council pursuant to statutes governing
land use management regulations. The FIS and/or FIRM are permanent records of
Cadiz and are on file and available for review by the public during regular
business hours at Cadiz City Hall.
(Ord. 13-02, passed 3-5-13)
§ 152.08 ESTABLISHMENT OF DEVELOPMENT PERMIT.
   (A)   A development permit shall be required in conformance with the
provision of this chapter prior to the commencement of any development
activities in the special flood hazard areas (SFHA). See §
152.26 for instructions and explanation.
   (B)   Application for a development permit shall be made on forms furnished
by the Floodplain Administrator.
(Ord. 13-02, passed 3-5-13)
§ 152.09 COMPLIANCE.
   No structure or land shall hereafter be constructed, located, extended,
converted or structurally altered without full compliance with the terms of
this chapter and other applicable state regulations. Violation of the
requirements (including violations of conditions and safeguards established in
connection with conditions) shall constitute a misdemeanor. Nothing herein
shall prevent the City Council from taking such lawful action as is necessary
to prevent or remedy any violation.
(Ord. 13-02, passed 3-5-13)
§ 152.10 ABROGATION AND GREATER RESTRICTIONS.
   This chapter is not intended to repeal, abrogate, or impair any existing
easements, covenants, or deed restrictions. However, where this chapter and
another ordinance, easement, covenant or deed restriction conflict or overlap,
whichever imposes the more stringent restrictions shall prevail.
(Ord. 13-02, passed 3-5-13)
§ 152.11 INTERPRETATION.
   In the interpretation and application of this chapter, all provisions shall
be:
   (A)   Considered minimum requirements;
   (B)   Liberally construed in favor of the governing body; and
   (C)   Deemed neither to limit nor repeal any other powers granted under
state statutes.
(Ord. 13-02, passed 3-5-13)
§ 152.12 WARNING AND DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY.
   The degree of flood protection required by this chapter is considered
reasonable for regulatory purposes and is based on scientific and engineering
considerations. Larger floods can and will occur on rare occasions. Flood
heights may be increased by man-made or natural causes. This chapter does not
imply that land outside the areas of special flood hazard or uses permitted
within such areas will be free from flooding or flood damage. This chapter
shall not create liability on the part of the City Council, any officer or
employee, thereof for any flood damages that result from reliance on this
chapter or any administrative decision lawfully made hereunder.
(Ord. 13-02, passed 3-5-13)
§ 152.13 ENFORCEMENT, VIOLATION NOTICE AND PENALTIES.
   (A)   Civil offense. If, at any time, development occurs which is not in
accordance with the provisions of this chapter including obtaining or complying
with the terms and conditions of a floodplain development permit and any
approved modifications, this development shall constitute a civil offense.
   (B)   Notice of violation. If, at any time, a duly authorized employee or
agent of the Floodplain Administrator has reasonable cause to believe that a
person has caused development to occur which is not in accordance with the
provisions of this chapter including obtaining or complying with the terms and
conditions of a floodplain development permit and any approved modifications
thereof, a duly authorized employee of the Floodplain Administrator shall issue
a notice to the person responsible for the violation and/or the property owner,
stating the facts of the offense or violation, the section of this chapter and/
or of the permit violated, when it occurred, how the violation is to be
remedied to bring the development into conformity with this chapter or with the
approved permit, and within what period of time the remedy is to occur, which
period of time shall be reasonable and shall be determined by the nature of the
violation and whether or not it creates a nuisance or hazard. The remedy may
include an order to stop work on the development. The notice shall also state
that a citation may be forthcoming in the event that the requested remedies and
corrective actions are not taken, which citation will request a civil monetary
fine and shall state the maximum fine which could be imposed. See below.
   (C)   Notice of citation. If, at any time, a duly authorized employee or
agent of the Floodplain Administrator has reasonable cause to believe that a
person has caused development to occur which is not in accordance with the
provisions of this chapter including obtaining or complying with the terms and
conditions of a floodplain development permit and any approved modifications
thereof, a duly authorized employee of the Floodplain Administrator may issue a
citation to the offender stating the violation, prior notices of violation
issued, how the violation is to be remedied to bring the development into
conformity with this chapter or with the approved permit, and within what
period of time the remedy is to occur, and what penalty or penalties are
recommended. When a citation is issued, the person to whom the citation is
issued shall respond to the citation within seven days of the date the citation
is issued by either carrying out the remedies and corrections set forth in the
citation, paying the civil fine set forth in the citation or requesting a
hearing before the governing body. If the person to whom the citation is issued
does not respond to the citation within seven days, that person shall be deemed
to have waived the right to a hearing and the determination that a violation
occurred shall be considered final.
   (D)   Penalties. Violation of the provisions of this chapter or failure to
comply with any of its requirements, including violation of conditions and
safeguards established in connection with granting of a variance or special
exceptions, shall constitute a misdemeanor civil offense. Any person who
violates this chapter or fails to comply with any of its requirements shall,
upon conviction thereof, be fined no less than $100 or imprisoned for not more
than ten days, or both, and in addition, shall pay all costs and expenses
involved in the case. Each day the violation continues shall be considered a
separate offense. Nothing herein contained shall prevent the Floodplain
Administrator from taking other lawful action as is necessary to prevent or
remedy any violation.
(Ord. 13-02, passed 3-5-13)
ADMINISTRATION
§ 152.25 DESIGNATION OF LOCAL ADMINISTRATOR.
   The City Council hereby appoints the Mayor or designee to administer,
implement, and enforce the provisions of this chapter by granting or denying
development permits in accordance with its provisions, and is herein referred
to as the Floodplain Administrator.
(Ord. 13-02, passed 3-5-13)
§ 152.26 ESTABLISHMENT OF DEVELOPMENT PERMIT.
   A development permit shall be obtained before any construction or other
development begins within any special flood hazard area established in §
152.07. Application for a development permit shall be made on forms furnished
by Floodplain Administrator prior to any development activities, and may
include, but not be limited to, the following: plans in duplicate drawn to
scale showing the nature, location, dimensions, and elevations of the area in
question; existing or proposed structures, fill, storage of materials, drainage
facilities; and the location of the foregoing. Endorsement of Floodplain
Administrator is required before a state floodplain construction permit can be
processed. Specifically, the following information is required.
   (A)   Application stage.
      (1)   Proposed elevation in relation to mean sea level (MSL) of the
proposed lowest floor (including basement) of all structures in Zone A and
elevation of highest adjacent grade;
      (2)   Proposed elevation in relation to mean sea level to which any non-
residential structure will be flood-proofed;
      (3)   All appropriate certifications from a registered professional
engineer or architect that the non-residential flood-proofed structure will
meet the flood-proofing criteria in §
152.41(B) and §
152.43(B);
      (4)   Description of the extent to which any watercourse will be altered
or relocated as a result of proposed development.
   (B)   Construction stage.
      (1)   Upon placement of the lowest floor, and before construction
continues, or flood proofing by whatever construction means, it shall be the
duty of the permit holder to submit to the Floodplain Administrator and to the
state a certification of the elevation of the lowest floor or flood-proofed
elevation, as built, in relation to mean sea level. In AE, A1-30, AH, and A
Zones where the community has adopted a regulatory base flood elevation, the
certification shall be prepared by or under the direct supervision of a
registered land surveyor or professional engineer and certified by same.
      (2)   When flood proofing is utilized for a particular structure, the
certification shall be prepared by or under the direct supervision of a
certified professional engineer or architect. Any continued work undertaken
prior to the submission of the certification shall be at the permit holder's
risk. The Floodplain Administrator shall review the lowest floor and flood
proofing elevation survey data submitted. Deficiencies detected by the review
shall be corrected by the permit holder immediately and prior to further
progressive work being permitted to proceed. Failure to submit the survey or
failure to make the corrections required hereby, shall be cause to issue a
stop-work order for the project.
(Ord. 13-02, passed 3-5-13)
§ 152.27 DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE LOCAL ADMINISTRATOR.
   (A)   The Floodplain Administrator and/or staff is hereby appointed,
authorized and directed to administer, implement and enforce the provisions of
this chapter. The Floodplain Administrator is further authorized to render
interpretations of this chapter, which are consistent with its spirit and
purpose by granting or denying development permits in accordance with its
provisions.
   (B)   The duties and responsibilities of the Floodplain Administrator shall
include, but not be limited to the following:
      (1)   Permit review. Review all development permits to ensure that:
         (a)   Permit requirements of this chapter have been satisfied;
         (b)   All other required state and federal permits have been obtained:
review proposed development to assure that all necessary permits have been
received from those governmental agencies from which approval is required by
federal or state law, including Section 404 of the Federal Water Pollution
Control Act Amendments of 1972, 33 USC 1334;
         (c)   Flood damages will be reduced in the best possible manner;
         (d)   The proposed development does not adversely affect the carrying
capacity of affected watercourses. For purposes of this chapter, ADVERSELY
AFFECTS means that the cumulative effect of the proposed development when
combined with all other existing and anticipated development will increase the
water surface elevation of the base flood more than one foot at any point.
      (2)   Review and use of any other base flood data. When base flood
elevation data has not been provided in accordance with §
152.07, the Floodplain Administrator shall obtain, review, and reasonably
utilize any base flood elevation and floodway data available from a federal or
state agency, or other source, in order to administer the provisions of §§
152.40 through
152.46. Any such information shall be submitted to the City Council for
adoption.
      (3)   Notification of other agencies.
         (a)   Notify adjacent communities, the Kentucky Division of Water, and
any other federal and/or state agencies with statutory or regulatory authority
prior to any alteration or relocation of the watercourse;
         (b)   Submit evidence of the notification to the Federal Emergency
Management Agency (FEMA); and
         (c)   Assure that the flood carrying capacity within the altered or
relocated portion of the watercourse is maintained.
      (4)   Documentation of floodplain development. Obtain and maintain for
public inspection and make available as needed the following:
         (a)   Certification required by §
152.41(A) (lowest floor elevations) as shown on an accurately completed and
certified elevation certificate. Verify and record the actual elevation (in
relation to mean sea level) of the lowest floor (including basement) of all new
and substantially improved structures, in accordance with §
152.41(B);
         (b)   Certification required by §
152.41(B) (elevation or floodproofing of nonresidential structures) as shown on
an accurately completed and certified FEMA flood proofing certificate. Verify
and record the actual elevation (in relation to mean sea level) to which the
new and substantially improved structures have been flood-proofed, in
accordance with §
152.41(B);
         (c)   Certification required by §
152.41(C) (elevated structures);
         (d)   Certification of elevation required by §
152.44(A) (subdivision standards);
         (e)   Certification required by §
152.41(E) (floodway encroachments);
         (f)   Assure that maintenance is provided within the altered or
relocated portion of the watercourse so that the flood-carrying capacity is
maintained;
         (g)   Review certified plans and specifications for compliance; and
         (h)   Remedial action. Take action to remedy violations of this
chapter as specified in §
152.13.
      (5)   Map determinations. Make interpretations where needed, as to the
exact location of the boundaries of the special flood hazard areas, for
example, where there appears to be a conflict between a mapped boundary and
actual field conditions.
         (a)   Where interpretation is needed as to the exact location of
boundaries of the areas of special flood hazard (for example, where there
appears to be a conflict between a mapped boundary and actual field conditions)
the Floodplain Administrator shall make the necessary interpretation. The
person contesting the location of the boundary shall be given a reasonable
opportunity to appeal the interpretation as provided in §
152.61(B)(1);
         (b)   When base flood elevation data and floodway data have not been
provided in accordance with §
152.07, then the Floodplain Administrator shall obtain, review, and reasonable
utilize any base flood elevation and floodway data available from a federal,
state, or other source, in order to administer the provisions of §§
152.40 through
152.46;
         (c)   When flood-proofing is utilized for a particular structure, the
Floodplain Administrator shall obtain certification from a registered
professional engineer or architect, in accordance with §
152.41(B) a floodproofing certificate;
         (d)   All records pertaining to the provisions of this chapter shall
be maintained in the office of the Floodplain Administrator and shall be open
for public inspection.
      (6)   Right of entry.
         (a)   Whenever necessary to make an inspection to enforce any of the
provisions of this chapter, or whenever the Floodplain Administrator has
reasonable cause to believe that there exists in any structure or upon any
premises any condition or ordinance violation which makes the building,
structure or premises unsafe, dangerous or hazardous, the Floodplain
Administrator may enter the building, structure or premises at all reasonable
times to inspect the same or perform any duty imposed upon the Floodplain
Administrator by this chapter.
         (b)   If the structure or premises are occupied, the Floodplain
Administrator shall first present proper credentials and request entry. If the
building, structure, or premises are unoccupied, he or she shall first make a
reasonable effort to locate the owner or other persons having charge or control
of the request entry.
         (c)   If entry is refused, the Floodplain Administrator shall have
recourse to every remedy provided by law to secure entry.
         (d)   When the Floodplain Administrator shall have first obtained a
proper inspection warrant or other remedy provided by law to secure entry, no
owner or occupant or any other persons having charge, care or control of any
building, structure, or premises shall fail or neglect, after proper request is
made as herein provided, to promptly permit entry therein by the Floodplain
Administrator for the purpose of inspection and examination pursuant to this
chapter.
      (7)   Stop work orders. Upon notice from the Floodplain Administrator,
work on any building, structure or premises that is being done contrary to the
provisions of this chapter shall immediately cease. The notice shall be in
writing and shall be given to the owner of the property, or to his or her
agent, or to the person performing the work, and shall state the conditions
under which work may be resumed.
      (8)   Revocation of permits.
         (a)   The Floodplain Administrator may revoke a permit or approval,
issued under the provisions of this chapter, in case there has been any false
statement or misrepresentation as to the material fact in the application or
plans on which the permit or approval was based.
         (b)   The Floodplain Administrator may revoke a permit upon
determination that the construction, erection, alteration, repair, moving,
demolition, installation, or replacement of the structure for which the permit
was issued is in violation of, or not in conformity with, the provisions of
this chapter.
      (9)   Liability. Any officer, employee, or member of the Floodplain
Administrator's staff, charged with the enforcement of this chapter, acting for
the applicable governing authority in the discharge of his or her duties, shall
not thereby render personally liable, and is hereby relieved from all personal
liability, for any damage that may accrue to persons or property as a result of
any act required or permitted in the discharge of his or her duties. Any suit
brought against any officer, employee, or member because of the act performed
by him or her in the enforcement of any provision of this chapter shall be
defended by the department of law until the final termination of the
proceedings.
      (10)   Expiration of floodplain construction permit. A floodplain
development permit, and all provisions contained therein, shall expire if the
start of construction has not occurred within 180 calendar days from the date
of its issuance.
(Ord. 13-02, passed 3-5-13)
PROVISIONS FOR FLOOD HAZARD REDUCTION
§ 152.40 GENERAL CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS.
   In all special flood hazard areas the following provisions are required:
   (A)   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be adequately
anchored to prevent flotation, collapse, and lateral movement of the structure
resulting from hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads, including the effects of
buoyancy.
   (B)   Manufactured homes shall be anchored to prevent flotation, collapse,
and lateral movement. Methods of anchoring may include, but are not limited to,
use of over-the-top or frame ties to ground anchors. This standard shall be in
addition to and consistent with applicable state requirements for resisting
wind forces.
   (C)   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be constructed
with materials and utility equipment resistant to flood damage.
   (D)   New construction and substantial improvements shall be constructed by
methods and practices that minimize flood damage.
   (E)   Electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing, air condition equipment,
and other service facilities shall be designed and/or located so as to prevent
water from entering or accumulating within the components during conditions of
flooding; and if
   (F)   Within Zones AH or AO, so that there are adequate drainage paths
around structures on slopes to guide flood waters around and away from proposed
structures.
   (G)   New and replacement water supply systems shall be designed to minimize
or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the system.
   (H)   New and replacement sanitary sewage systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the systems and
discharges from the systems into flood waters.
   (I)   On-site waste disposal systems shall be located and constructed to
avoid impairment to them or contamination from them during flooding.
   (J)   Any alteration, repair, reconstruction, or improvements to a
structure, which is not in compliance with the provisions of this chapter shall
meet the requirements of new construction as contained in this chapter.
   (K)   Any alteration, repair, reconstruction, or improvements to a
structure, which is not in compliance with the provisions of this chapter,
shall be undertaken only if said non-conformity is not furthered, extended, or
replaced.
(Ord. 13-02, passed 3-5-13)
§ 152.41 SPECIFIC STANDARDS.
   In all special flood hazard areas where base flood elevation data have been
provided, as set forth in §
152.07, the following provisions are required.
   (A)   Residential construction. New construction and substantial improvement
of any residential structure (including manufactured home) shall have the
lowest floor, including basement, mechanical equipment, and ductwork elevated
no lower than at or above feet above the base flood elevation. Should solid
foundation perimeter walls be used to elevate a structure, openings sufficient
to facilitate automatic equalization of hydrostatic flood forces on walls shall
be provided in accordance with standards of §
152.41(C).
      (1)   In an AO Zone, the lowest floor shall be elevated above the highest
adjacent grade to a height equal to or higher than the depth number specified
in feet on the FIRM, or elevated at least two feet above the highest adjacent
grade if no depth number is specified.
      (2)   In an A Zone, where no technical data has been produced by the
Federal Emergency Management Agency, the Floodplain Administrator will
determine the method by which base flood elevations are determined. Methods
include, but are not limited to, detailed hydrologic and hydraulic analyses,
use of existing data available from other sources, approximate methods, use of
historical data, best supportable and reasonable judgment in the event no data
can be produced. The lowest floor shall be elevated no lower than at or above
feet above the base flood elevation. Title 401 KAR (Kentucky Administrative
Regulations) Chapter 4, Regulation 060, Section 5(5)a, states as a part of the
technical requirements for a state floodplain permit: the applicant shall
provide cross sections for determining floodway boundaries (and thereby base
flood elevations) at any proposed construction site where FEMA maps are not
available. All cross sections shall be referenced to mean sea level and shall
have vertical error tolerances of no more than + five-tenths (0.5) foot. Cross
sections elevations shall be taken at those points which represent significant
breaks in slope and at points where hydraulic characteristics of the base
floodplain change. Each cross section shall extend across the entire base
floodplain and shall be in the number and at the locations specified by the
cabinet. If necessary to ensure that significant flood damage will not occur,
the cabinet may require additional cross sections or specific site elevations
which extend beyond those needed for making routine regulatory floodway
boundary calculations.
      (3)   In all other Zones, elevated at or above feet above the base flood
elevation.
      (4)   Upon the completion of the structure, the elevation of the lowest
floor (including basement) shall be certified by a registered professional
engineer or surveyor, and verified by the community building inspection
department to be properly elevated. The certification and verification shall be
provided to the Floodplain Administrator.
   (B)   Non-residential construction. New construction and substantial
improvement of any commercial, industrial, or non-residential structure
(including manufactured homes used for nonresidential purposes) shall be
elevated to conform with §
152.41(A) or together with attendant utility and sanitary facilities.
      (1)   Be flood proofed to an elevation at or above feet above the level
of the base flood elevation so that the structure is watertight with walls
substantially impermeable to the passage of water.
      (2)   Have structural components capable of resisting hydrostatic and
hydrodynamic loads and effects of buoyancy and debris.
      (3)   A registered professional engineer or architect shall certify that
the standards of this section are satisfied. The certification along with the
design and operational maintenance plans shall be provided to the Floodplain
Administrator.
      (4)   Manufactured homes shall meet the standards in §
152.41(D).
      (5)   All new construction and substantial improvement with fully
enclosed areas below the lowest floor (including basements) that are usable
solely for parking of vehicles, building access or storage, and which are
subject to flooding, shall be constructed of flood resistant materials to an
elevation at or above feet above the base flood elevation, and, shall be
designed to automatically equalize hydrostatic flood forces on exterior walls
by allowing for the entry and exit of floodwater. Openings for meeting this
requirement must meet or exceed the standards of §
152.51(C).
   (C)   Elevated structures. New construction and substantial improvements of
elevated structures on columns, posts, or pilings that include fully enclosed
areas formed by foundation and other exterior walls below the lowest floor
shall be designed to preclude finished living space and designed to allow for
the entry and exit of floodwaters to automatically equalize hydrostatic flood
forces on exterior walls.
      (1)   Openings for complying with this requirement must either be
certified by a professional engineer or architect or meet the following minimum
criteria:
         (a)   Provide a minimum of two openings having a total net area of not
less than one square inch for every square foot of enclosed area subject to
flooding;
         (b)   The bottom of all openings shall be no higher than one foot
above foundation interior grade (which must be equal to in elevation or higher
than the exterior foundation grade); and
         (c)   Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, valves, or other
coverings or devices provided they permit the automatic flow of floodwaters in
both directions.
      (2)   Access to the enclosed area shall be the minimum necessary to allow
for parking of vehicles (garage door), limited storage of maintenance equipment
used in connection with the premises (standard exterior door), or entry to the
living area (stairway or elevator); and
      (3)   The interior portion of the enclosed areas shall not be finished or
partitioned into separate rooms.
   (D)   Standards for manufactured homes and recreational vehicles.
      (1)   All new and substantially improved manufactured homes placed on
sites located within A, A1-30, AO, AH, and AE on the community's Flood
Insurance Rate Map (FIRM) must meet all the requirements for new construction,
including elevation and anchoring.
         (a)   Locations include:
            1.   On individual lots or parcels;
            2.   In expansions to existing manufactured home parks or
subdivisions;
            3.   In new manufactured home parks or subdivisions; or
            4.   In substantially improved manufactured home parks or
subdivisions;
            5.   Outside of a manufactured home park or subdivision; and
            6.   In an existing manufactured home park or subdivision on a site
upon which a manufactured home has incurred substantial damage as the result of
a flood.
         (b)   All manufactured homes must be:
            1.   Elevated on a permanent foundation;
            2.   Have its lowest floor elevated no lower than at or above feet
above the level of the base flood elevation; and
            3.   Be securely anchored to an adequately anchored foundation
system to resist flotation, collapse and lateral movement.
      (2)   (a)   Except manufactured homes that have incurred substantial
damage as a result of a flood, all manufactured homes placed or substantially
improved in an existing manufactured home park or subdivision must be elevated
so that:
         (b)   The manufactured home is securely anchored to an adequately
anchored foundation system to resist flotation, collapse and lateral movement,
so that either:
            1.   The lowest floor of the manufactured home is elevated no lower
than at or above feet above the base flood elevation; or
            2.   The manufactured home chassis is supported by reinforced piers
or other foundation elements of at least an equivalent strength, of no less
than 36 inches in height above the highest adjacent grade.
      (3)   All recreational vehicles placed on sites located within A, A1-30,
AO, AH, and AE on the community's Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM) must either:
         (a)   Be on the site for fewer than 180 consecutive days;
         (b)   Be fully licensed and ready for highway use; or
         (c)   Meet the permit requirements for new construction of this
chapter, including anchoring and elevation requirements for manufactured homes.
      (4)   A recreational vehicle is ready for highway use if it is licensed
and insured in accordance with the state motor vehicle regulations, is on its
wheels or jacking system, is attached to the site only by quick disconnect type
utilities and security devices, and has no permanently attached additions.
   (E)   Floodways. Located within areas of special flood hazard established in
§
152.07, are areas designated as floodways. Since the floodway is an extremely
hazardous area due to the velocity of flood waters which carry debris,
potential projectiles, and has erosion potential, the following provisions
shall apply:
      (1)   Prohibit encroachments, including fill, new construction,
substantial improvements, and other developments unless certification (with
supporting technical data) by a registered professional engineer is provided
demonstrating that encroachments shall not result in any increase in the base
flood elevation levels during occurrence of base flood discharge.
      (2)   If §
152.41(E) is satisfied, all new construction and substantial improvements and
other proposed new development shall comply with all applicable flood hazard
reduction provisions of §§
152.40 through
152.46.
(Ord. 13-02, passed 3-5-13)
§ 152.42 STANDARDS FOR STREAMS WITHOUT ESTABLISHED BASE FLOOD ELEVATION AND/OR
FLOODWAYS.
   Located within the special flood hazard areas established in §
152.07, where streams exist but where no base flood data has been provided or
where base flood data has been provided without floodways, the following
provisions apply:
   (A)   No encroachments, including fill material or structures shall be
located within special flood hazard areas, unless certification by a registered
professional engineer is provided demonstrating that the cumulative effect of
the proposed development, when combined with all other existing and anticipated
development will not increase the water surface elevation of the base flood
more than one foot at any point within the community. The engineering
certification should be supported by technical data that conforms to standard
hydraulic engineering principles.
   (B)   New construction and substantial improvements of structures shall be
elevated or flood proofed to elevations established in accordance with §
152.07.
(Ord. 13-02, passed 3-5-13)
§ 152.43 STANDARDS FOR SHALLOW FLOODING ZONES.
   Located within the special flood hazard areas established in §
152.07, are areas designated as shallow flooding areas. These areas have flood
hazards associated with base flood depths of one to three feet, where a clearly
defined channel does not exist and the water path of flooding is unpredictable
and indeterminate; therefore, the following provisions apply:
   (A)   All new construction and substantial improvements of residential
structures shall have the lowest floor, including basement, elevated to or
above either the base flood elevation or in Zone AO the flood depth specified
on the Flood Insurance Rate Map above the highest adjacent grade. In Zone AO,
if no flood depth is specified, the lowest floor, including basement, shall be
elevated no less than two feet above the highest adjacent grade.
   (B)   All new construction and substantial improvements of non-residential
structures shall:
      (1)   Have the lowest floor, including basement, elevated to or above
either the base flood elevation or in Zone AO the flood depth specified on the
Flood Insurance Rate Map, above the highest adjacent grade. In Zone AO, if no
flood depth is specified, the lowest floor, including basement, shall be
elevated no less than two feet above the highest adjacent grade.
      (2)   Together with attendant utility and sanitary facilities be
completely floodproofed either to the base flood elevation or above or, in Zone
AO, to or above the specified flood depth plus a minimum of one foot so that
any space below that level is watertight with walls substantially impermeable
to the passage of water and with structural components having the capability of
resisting hydrostatic and hydrodynamic loads and effects of buoyancy.
Certification is required as stated in §
152.41(B).
(Ord. 13-02, passed 3-5-13)
§ 152.44 STANDARDS FOR SUBDIVISION PROPOSALS.
   (A)   All subdivision proposals shall identify the flood hazard area and the
elevation of the base flood and be consistent with the need to minimize flood
damage.
   (B)   All subdivision proposals shall have public utilities and facilities
such as sewer, gas, electrical and water systems located and constructed to
minimize flood damage.
   (C)   All subdivision proposals shall have adequate drainage provided to
reduce exposure to flood hazards.
   (D)   In areas where base flood elevation and floodway data is not
available, base flood elevation and floodway data for subdivision proposals and
other proposed development (including manufactured home parks and subdivisions)
greater than 50 lots or five acres, whichever is the lesser, shall be provided.
   (E)   All subdivision plans will include the elevation of proposed structure
(s) and lowest adjacent grade. If the site is filled above the base flood
elevation, the lowest floor and lowest adjacent grade elevations shall be
certified by a registered professional engineer or surveyor and provided to the
Floodplain Administrator.
(Ord. 13-02, passed 3-5-13)
§ 152.45 STANDARDS FOR ACCESSORY STRUCTURES IN ALL ZONES BEGINNING WITH THE
LETTER “A”.
   For all accessory structures in special flood hazard areas designated “A”
the following provisions shall apply:
   (A)   Must be non-habitable;
   (B)   Must be anchored to resist floatation and lateral movement;
   (C)   Must be provided with flood openings in accordance with the standards
of §
152.41(C);
   (D)   Must be built of flood resistant materials to at or above feet above
the base flood elevation;
   (E)   Must elevate utilities at or above feet above the base flood
elevation;
   (F)   Can only be used for storage or parking; and
   (G)   Must not be modified for a different use after permitting.
(Ord. 13-02, passed 3-5-13)
§ 152.46 CRITICAL FACILITIES.
   Construction of new critical facilities shall be, to the extent possible,
located outside the limits of the SFHA (100-year floodplain). Construction of
new critical facilities shall not be permissible within the floodway; however,
they may be permissible within the SFHA if no feasible alternative site is
available. Critical facilities constructed within the SFHA shall have the
lowest floor elevated one foot or more above the base flood elevation at the
site. Floodproofing and sealing measures must be taken to ensure that toxic
substances will not be displaced by or released into floodwaters. Access routes
elevated to or above the level of the base flood elevation shall be provided to
all critical facilities to the extent possible.
(Ord. 13-02, passed 3-5-13)
APPEALS AND VARIANCE PROCEDURES
§ 152.60 NATURE OF VARIANCES.
   (A)   The variance criteria set forth in §§
152.60 through
152.65 of this chapter are based on the general principle of zoning law that
variances pertain to a piece of property and are not personal in nature. A
variance may be granted for a parcel of property with physical characteristics
so unusual that complying with the requirements of this chapter would create an
exceptional hardship to the applicant or the surrounding property owners. The
characteristics must be unique to the property and not be shared by adjacent
parcels. The unique characteristic must pertain to the land itself, not to the
structure, its inhabitants, or the property owners.
   (B)   It is the duty of the City Council to help protect its citizens from
flooding. This need is so compelling and the implications of the cost of
insuring a structure built below flood level is so serious that variances from
the flood elevation or from other requirements in the flood ordinance are quite
rare. The long-term goal of preventing and reducing flood loss and damage can
only be met if variances are strictly limited. Therefore, the variance
guidelines provided in this chapter are more detailed and contain multiple
provisions that must be met before a variance can be properly granted. The
criteria are designed to screen out those situations in which alternatives
other than a variance are more appropriate.
(Ord. 13-02, passed 3-5-13)
§ 152.61 VARIANCE AND APPEAL BOARD.
   (A)   Designation of Variance and Appeal Board. The City Council shall
establish a Variance and Appeal Board consisting of members of the City
Council.
   (B)   Duties of Variance and Appeals Board.
      (1)   The Variance and Appeal Board shall hear and decide requests for
variances from the requirements of this chapter and appeals of decisions or
determinations made by the Floodplain Administrator in the enforcement or
administration of this chapter.
      (2)   Any person aggrieved by the decision of the Variance and Appeal
Board may appeal the decision to the Circuit Court, as provided in Kentucky
Revised Statutes.
(Ord. 13-02, passed 3-5-13)
§ 152.62 VARIANCE PROCEDURES.
   In passing upon the applications, the Variance and Appeal Board shall
consider all technical evaluations, all relevant factors, all standards
specified in other sections of this chapter, and the:
   (A)   Danger that materials may be swept onto other lands to the injury of
others;
   (B)   Danger to life and property due to flooding or erosion damage;
   (C)   Susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents to flood
damage and the effect of the damage on the existing individual owner and future
owners of the property;
   (D)   Importance to the community of the services provided by the existing
or proposed facility;
   (E)   Necessity that the facility be located on a waterfront, in the case of
functionally dependent use;
   (F)   Availability of alternative locations, which are not subject to
flooding or erosion damage;
   (G)   Compatibility of the proposed use with existing and anticipated
development;
   (H)   Relationship of the proposed use to the comprehensive plan and
floodplain management program for that area;
   (I)   Safety of access to the property in times of flood for ordinary and
emergency vehicles;
   (J)    Expected height, velocity, duration, rate of rise, and sediment
transport of the flood waters and the effects of wave action, if applicable,
expected at the site; and
   (K)   Costs of providing governmental services during and after flood
conditions, including maintenance and repair of public utilities and facilities
such as sewer, gas, electrical, water systems, streets, and bridges and
culverts.
(Ord. 13-02, passed 3-5-13)
§ 152.63 CONDITIONS FOR VARIANCES.
   Upon consideration of the factors listed above and the purposes of this
chapter, the Variance and Appeal Board may attach such conditions to the
granting of variances as it deems necessary to further the purposes of this
chapter.
   (A)   Variances shall not be issued within any mapped regulatory floodway if
any increase in flood levels during the base flood discharge would result.
   (B)   Variances shall only be issued upon a determination that the variance
is the minimum necessary to afford relief considering the flood hazard. MINIMUM
NECESSARY means to afford relief with a minimum of deviation from the
requirements of this chapter. For example, in the case of variances to an
elevation requirement, this means the City Council need not grant permission
for the applicant to build at grade, or even to whatever elevation the
applicant proposes, but only to that elevation which the City Council believes
will both provide relief and preserve the integrity of the local ordinance.
   (C)   Variances shall only be issued upon:
      (1)   A showing of good and sufficient cause;
      (2)   A determination that failure to grant the variance would result in
exceptional hardship to the applicant; and
      (3)   A determination that the granting of a variance will not result in
increased flood height, additional threats to public safety, cause
extraordinary public expense, create nuisance (as defined in §
152.05 under public safety and nuisance), cause fraud or victimization of the
public (as defined in §
152.05) or conflict with existing local laws or ordinances.
   (D)   Any applicant to whom a variance is granted shall be given written
notice specifying the difference between the base flood elevation and the
elevation to which the structure is to be built and stating that the cost of
flood insurance will be commensurate with the increased risk resulting from the
lowest floor being situated below the base flood elevation.
   (E)   The Floodplain Administrator shall maintain the records of all appeal
actions and report any variances to the Federal Emergency Management Agency
(FEMA) upon request.
   (F)   Variances may be issued for new construction, substantial improvement,
and other proposed new development necessary for the conduct of a functionally
dependent use provided that the provisions of §
152.62 are satisfied and that the structure or other development is protected
by methods that minimize flood damages during the base flood and does not
result in additional threats to public safety and does not create a public
nuisance.
(Ord. 13-02, passed 3-5-13)
§ 152.64 VARIANCE NOTIFICATION.
   Any applicant to whom a variance is granted shall be given written notice
over the signature of a community official that:
   (A)   The issuance of a variance to construct a structure below the base
flood elevation will result in increased premium rates for flood insurance up
to amounts as high as $25 for $100 of insurance coverage;
   (B)   Construction below the base flood level increases risks to life and
property. A copy of the notice shall be recorded by the Floodplain
Administrator in the Office of the Cadiz Recorder and shall be recorded in a
manner so that it appears in the chain of title of the affected parcel of land.
   (C)   The Floodplain Administrator shall maintain a record of all variance
actions, including justification for their issuance or denial, and report
variances issued in the community's biennial report submission to the Federal
Emergency Management Agency.
(Ord. 13-02, passed 3-5-13)
§ 152.65 HISTORIC STRUCTURES.
   Variances may be issued for the repair or rehabilitation of historic
structures (see definition in §
152.05) upon determination that the proposed repair or rehabilitation will not
preclude the structure's continued designation as an historic structure and the
variance is the minimum necessary to preserve the historic character and design
of the structure.
(Ord. 13-02, passed 3-5-13)
CHAPTER 153: CELLULAR ANTENNA TOWER REGULATIONS
Section
   
153.01   Purpose
   
153.02   Pre-application conference
   
153.03   Definitions
   
153.04   Applicability
   
153.05   Application requirements
   
153.06   Confidentiality of information contained in application
   
153.07   Application fee
   
153.08   Processing of application
   
153.09   Design standards
   
153.10   Dismantling and removing a cellular antenna tower
   
153.11   Criteria for approval or disapproval
   
153.12   Amendment to plans
§ 153.01 PURPOSE.
   The purposes of these regulations are: to provide for the safest and most
efficient integration of cellular antenna towers for cellular
telecommunications services or personal communications services within the
city; to provide for such facilities in coordination with the recommendations
of the comprehensive plan; and to allow for such facilities with the intention
of furthering the public health, safety, and general welfare.
(Ord. 16-06, passed 8-2-16)
§ 153.02 PRE-APPLICATION CONFERENCE.
   Applicants are encouraged to notify the Planning Commission to discuss
proposals, to allow for early coordination, and to identify those items that
are in conformance/nonconformance with the comprehensive plan, zoning
ordinances, and the provisions of these regulations.
(Ord. 16-06, passed 8-2-16)
§ 153.03 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALTERNATIVE CELLULAR ANTENNA TOWER. Man-made trees, clock towers, bell
towers, steeples, light poles, and similar alternative-design mounting
structures that accommodate, camouflage, minimize, or conceal the presence of
cellular antennas or cellular antenna towers and that are constructed primarily
for the purpose of accommodating cellular antennas or cellular antenna towers
or are reconstructed for the purpose of accommodating cellular antennas or
cellular antenna towers. This does not include existing structures erected for
another primary purpose but which subsequently have cellular antennas attached
to or located within them without any reconstruction of the original structure.
For the provisions of these regulations, an alternative cellular antenna tower
is considered a cellular antenna tower.
   ANTENNAS OR RELATED EQUIPMENT. Transmitting, receiving, or other equipment
used to support cellular telecommunications service or personal communications
service. This definition does not include towers.
   CELLULAR ANTENNA TOWER. A tower constructed for, or an existing facility
that has been adapted for, the location of transmission or related equipment to
be used in the provision of cellular telecommunications services or personal
communications services.
   CELLULAR TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICE. A retail telecommunications service
that uses radio signals transmitted through cell sites and mobile switching
stations.
   CITY. The City of Cadiz, Kentucky.
   CO-LOCATION. Locating two or more transmission antennas or related equipment
on the same cellular antenna tower.
   GUYED CELLULAR ANTENNA TOWER. A type of wireless transmission tower that is
supported by thin guy wires.
   LATTICE CELLULAR ANTENNA TOWER. A self-supporting tower with multiple legs
and cross bracing of structural steel.
   MONOPOLE CELLULAR ANTENNA TOWER. A slender self-supporting tower on which
wireless antenna can be placed.
   PERSONAL COMMUNICATION SERVICE. As defined in 47 U.S.C. § 332(c).
   PLANNING COMMISSION. The Cadiz-Trigg County Planning Commission.
   UNIFORM APPLICATION. An application to construct a cellular antenna tower
submitted to a planning commission in conformity with KRS 100.9865 and 100.987.
   UTILITY. As defined in KRS 278.010(3).
(Ord. 16-06, passed 8-2-16)
§ 153.04 APPLICABILITY.
   Cellular antenna towers for cellular telecommunications services or personal
communication services may be allowed in any zone after a Planning Commission
review in accordance with the procedures set forth in this chapter to ascertain
agreement with the adopted comprehensive plan and the regulations contained
within the zoning ordinances. Every utility or a company that is engaged in the
business of providing the required infrastructure to a utility that proposes to
construct an antenna tower for cellular telecommunications services or personal
communications services shall submit a copy of the applicant's completed
uniform application to the Planning Commission to construct an antenna tower
for cellular or personal telecommunications services.
(Ord. 16-06, passed 8-2-16)
§ 153.05 APPLICATION REQUIREMENTS.
   A uniform application shall include:
   (A)   The full name and address of the applicant;
   (B)   The applicant's articles of incorporation, if applicable;
   (C)   A geotechnical investigation report, signed and sealed by a
professional engineer registered in Kentucky, that includes boring logs and
foundation design recommendations;
   (D)   A written report, prepared by a professional engineer or land
surveyor, of findings as to the proximity of the proposed site to flood hazard
areas;
   (E)   Clear directions from the county seat to the proposed site, including
highway numbers and street names, if applicable, with the telephone number of
the person who prepared the directions;
   (F)   The lease or sale agreement for the property on which the tower is
proposed to be located, except that, if the agreement has been filed in
abbreviated form with the County Clerk, an applicant may file a copy of the
agreement as recorded by the County Clerk and, if applicable, the portion of
the agreement demonstrating compliance with KRS 100.987(2);
   (G)   The identity and qualifications of each person directly responsible
for the design and construction of the proposed tower;
   (H)   A site development plan or survey, signed and sealed by a professional
engineer registered in Kentucky, that shows the proposed location of the tower
and all easements and existing structures within 500 feet of the proposed site
of the property on which the tower will be located, and all easements and
existing structures within 200 feet of the access drive, including the
intersection with the public street system;
   (I)   A vertical profile sketch of the tower, signed and sealed by a
professional engineer registered in Kentucky, indicating the height of the
tower and the placement of all antennas;
   (J)   The tower and foundation design plans and a description of the
standard according to which the tower was designed, signed, and sealed by a
professional engineer registered in Kentucky;
   (K)   A map, drawn to a scale no less than one inch equals 200 feet, that
identifies every structure and every owner of real estate within 500 feet of
the proposed tower;
   (L)   A statement that every person who, according to the records of the
Property Valuation Administrator, owns property within 500 feet of the proposed
tower or property contiguous to the site upon which the tower is proposed to be
constructed, has been:
      (1)   Notified by certified mail, return receipt requested, of the
proposed construction, which notice shall include a map of the location of the
proposed construction;
      (2)   Given the telephone number and address of the local planning
commission; and
      (3)   Informed of his or her right to participate in the Planning
Commission's proceedings on the application;
   (M)   A list of the property owners who received the notice, together with
copies of the certified letters sent to the listed property owners;
   (N)   A statement that the chief executive officer of the affected local
governments and their legislative bodies have been notified, in writing, of the
proposed construction;
   (O)   A copy of the notice sent to the chief executive officer of the
affected local governments and their legislative bodies;
   (P)   A statement that:
      (1)   A written notice, of durable material at least two feet by four
feet in size, stating that "[Name of applicant] proposes to construct a
telecommunications tower on this site" and including the addresses and
telephone numbers of the applicant and the Planning Commission, has been posted
and shall remain in a visible location on the proposed site until final
disposition of the application; and
      (2)   A written notice, at least two feet by four feet in size, stating
that "[Name of applicant] proposes to construct a telecommunications tower near
this site" and including the addresses and telephone numbers of the applicant
and the Planning Commission, has been posted on the public road nearest the
site;
   (Q)   A statement that notice of the location of the proposed construction
has been published in a newspaper of general circulation in the county in which
the construction is proposed;
   (R)   A brief description of the character of the general area in which the
tower is proposed to be constructed, which includes the existing land use for
the specific property involved;
   (S)   A statement that the applicant has considered the likely effects of
the installation on nearby land uses and values and has concluded that there is
no more suitable location reasonably available from which adequate service to
the area can be provided, and that there is no reasonably available opportunity
to locate its antennas and related facilities on an existing structure,
including documentation of attempts to locate its antennas and related
facilities on an existing structure, if any, with supporting radio frequency
analysis, where applicable, and a statement indicating that the applicant
attempted to locate its antennas and related facilities on a tower designed to
host multiple wireless service providers' facilities or on an existing
structure, such as a telecommunications tower or other suitable structure
capable of supporting the applicant's antennas and related facilities;
   (T)   A map of the area in which the tower is proposed to be located, that
is drawn to scale, and that clearly depicts the necessary search area within
which an antenna tower should, pursuant to radio frequency requirements, be
located; and
   (U)   A grid map that shows the location of all existing cellular antenna
towers and that indicates the general position of proposed construction sites
for new cellular antenna towers within an area that includes:
      (1)   All of the planning unit's jurisdiction; and
      (2)   A one-half mile area outside of the boundaries of the planning
unit's jurisdiction, if that area contains either existing or proposed
construction sites for cellular antenna towers.
(Ord. 16-06, passed 8-2-16)
§ 153.06 CONFIDENTIALITY OF INFORMATION CONTAINED IN APPLICATION.
   All information contained in the application and any updates, except for any
map or other information that specifically identifies the proposed location of
the cellular antenna tower then being reviewed, shall be deemed confidential
and proprietary within the meaning of KRS 61.878. The Planning Commission shall
deny any public request for the inspection of this information, whether
submitted under Kentucky's Open Records Act or otherwise, except when ordered
to release the information by a court of competent jurisdiction. Any person
violating this section shall be guilty of official misconduct in the second
degree as provided under KRS 522.030.
(Ord. 16-06, passed 8-2-16)
§ 153.07 APPLICATION FEE.
   The fee to submit a uniform application shall be $2,500.
(Ord. 16-06, passed 8-2-16)
§ 153.08 PROCESSING OF APPLICATION.
   After an applicant's submission of the uniform application to construct a
cellular antenna tower, the Planning Commission shall:
   (A)   Review the uniform application in light of its agreement with the
comprehensive plan and locally adopted zoning regulations;
   (B)   Make its final decision to approve or disapprove the uniform
application; and
   (C)   Advise the applicant in writing of its final decision within 60 days
commencing from the date that the uniform application is submitted to the
Planning Commission or within a date certain specified in a written agreement
between the Planning Commission and the applicant. If the Planning Commission
fails to issue a final decision within 60 days and if there is no written
agreement between the Planning Commission and the applicant to a specific date
for the Planning Commission to issue a decision, the uniform application shall
be deemed approved. If the Planning Commission disapproves of the proposed
construction, it shall state the reasons for disapproval in its written
decision and may make suggestions which, in its opinion, better accomplish the
objectives of the comprehensive plan and the locally adopted zoning
regulations. No permit for construction of a cellular or personal
communications services antenna tower shall be issued until the Planning
Commission approves the uniform application or the 60 day time period has
expired, whichever occurs first.
(Ord. 16-06, passed 8-2-16)
§ 153.09 DESIGN STANDARDS.
   Potential sites that should be considered (in order from most-preferred to
least-preferred) include street right-of-way, existing utility towers,
industrial zones, commercial zones, and government buildings.
   (A)   Monopole cellular antenna towers are permitted in any zone.
   (B)   Guyed cellular antenna towers are permitted in any zone except
residential zones. Any guyed cellular antenna tower constructed in an
agricultural zone shall be located at least 250 feet from all existing
residential structures. Distance shall be measured from the base of the tower
to the nearest wall of the residential structure.
   (C)   Lattice cellular antenna towers are permitted in any zone except
residential zones. Any lattice cellular antenna tower constructed in an
agricultural zone shall be located at least 250 feet from all existing
residential structures. Distance shall be measured from the base of the tower
to the nearest wall of the residential structure.
   (D)   Setbacks for all structures constructed in connection with guyed or
lattice cellular antenna towers, except fences and/or guy wires, shall be a
minimum distance from the property line or lease line equal to at least one-
half the height of the tower, but not less than 50 feet. All structures
constructed in connection with any monopole or alternative cellular antenna
tower shall comply with the applicable setback requirements established for
other structures within the applicable zoning district. Alternative cellular
antenna towers that are to be located as part of a utility service facility
(e.g., power pole or telephone pole) shall comply with setback requirements
applicable to such utility service facilities, if any.
   (E)   No cellular antenna tower or alternative cellular antenna tower may be
constructed to a height exceeding 200 feet, regardless of the maximum height
requirements listed in the specific zoning district. This height restriction
also applies to any tower taller than 15 feet constructed on the top of another
building or structure, with the height being the overall height of the
building/structure and tower together, measured from the grade to the highest
point. The Planning Commission may allow antennas greater than 200 feet in
height upon review of the applicant's justification that the additional height
meets the criteria identified in §
153.10 below.
   (F)   Every cellular antenna tower shall be constructed in compliance with
the current ANSI/EIA/TIA 222-F standards and other applicable state and federal
standards.
   (G)   Cellular antenna towers shall not be illuminated except in accordance
with state and federal regulations.
   (H)   The site of a cellular antenna tower shall be unstaffed. Personnel may
periodically visit the site for maintenance, equipment modification, or
repairs. To accommodate such visits, ingress/egress shall only be from approved
access points.
   (I)   Woven wire or chain link (80% open) or solid fences made from wood or
other materials (less than 50% open) shall be used to enclose the site. Such
fences shall not be more than eight feet in height and may be located within
the front, side, or rear yard. The use of barbed wire or sharp pointed fences
shall be prohibited in or along any boundary adjoining residential zones.
   (J)   Screening shall be provided by evergreen trees with a minimum height
of six feet, planted in a staggered pattern at a maximum distance of 15 feet on
center. The screening shall be placed in an area between the property line, or
lease line, and a ten foot setback.
   (K)   Surfacing of all driveways and off-street parking areas shall comply
with the requirements of the applicable local zoning ordinances.
   (L)   There shall be no signs permitted, except those displaying emergency
information, owner contact information, warning or safety instructions, or
signs that are required by a federal, state, or local agency. Such signs shall
not exceed five square feet in area unless otherwise required by federal or
state law.
   (M)   All new cellular antenna towers shall be designed and constructed to
accommodate a minimum of three service providers.
(Ord. 16-06, passed 8-2-16)
§ 153.10 DISMANTLING AND REMOVING A CELLULAR ANTENNA TOWER.
   Every utility or a company that is engaged in the business of providing the
required infrastructure to a utility that proposes to construct an antenna
tower for cellular telecommunications services or personal communications
services shall include in any contract with an owner of property upon which a
cellular antenna tower is to be constructed a provision that specifies, in the
case of abandonment, a method that the utility will follow in dismantling and
removing a cellular antenna tower, including a timetable for removal.
(Ord. 16-06, passed 8-2-16)
§ 153.11 CRITERIA FOR APPROVAL OR DISAPPROVAL.
   (A)   The Planning Commission may require the applicant to make a reasonable
attempt to co-locate additional transmitting or related equipment. The Planning
Commission may provide the location of existing cellular antenna towers on
which the Commission deems the applicant can successfully co-locate its
transmitting and related equipment. If the Planning Commission requires the
applicant to attempt co-location, the applicant shall provide the local
planning unit with a statement indicating that the applicant has:
      (1)   Successfully attempted to co-locate on towers designed to host
multiple wireless service providers’ facilities or existing structures such as
a telecommunications tower or another suitable structure capable of supporting
the applicant's facilities, and that identifies the location of the tower or
suitable structure on which the applicant will co-locate its transmission and
related facilities; or
      (2)   Unsuccessfully attempted to co-locate on towers designed to host
multiple wireless service providers’ facilities or existing structures such as
a telecommunications tower or another suitable structure capable of supporting
the applicant's facilities and that:
         (a)   Identifies the location of the towers or other structures on
which the applicant attempted to co-locate; and
         (b)   Lists the reasons why the co-location was unsuccessful in each
instance.
   (B)   The Planning Commission may deny a uniform application to construct a
cellular antenna tower based on an applicant's unwillingness to attempt to co-
locate additional transmitting or related equipment on any new or existing
towers or other structures.
   (C)   The Planning Commission shall not:
      (1)    Regulate the placement of a cellular antenna tower on the basis of
the environmental effects of radio frequency emissions to the extent that these
facilities comply with the regulations of the Federal Communications Commission
concerning radio frequency emissions;
      (2)   Institute a moratorium upon the siting of cellular antenna towers;
      (3)   Regulate the placement of antennas or related equipment on an
existing structure; or
      (4)   Require the submission of application materials in addition to
those required by this chapter, unless agreed by both parties.
(Ord. 16-06, passed 8-2-16)
§ 153.12 AMENDMENT TO PLANS.
   Any amendments to plans, except for minor adjustments as determined by the
Planning Commission or its duly authorized representative, shall require a new
uniform application.
(Ord. 16-06, passed 8-2-16)
CHAPTER 154: RENTAL UNIT PERMIT
Section
   
154.01   Purpose and scope
   
154.02   Definitions
   
154.03   Permit required
   
154.04   Ongoing requirements of permittees
   
154.05   Effect of noncompliance
   
154.06   Enforcement
 
   
154.99   Penalty
§ 154.01 PURPOSE AND SCOPE.
   (A)   The purpose of this chapter is to establish a rental unit permit
program in order to promote health and safety standards for rental properties,
to protect tenants from substandard housing, and to maintain neighborhood
stability. These standards relate to the condition, maintenance, and occupancy
of rental units and are intended to ensure that rental housing is safe,
sanitary, and suitable in accordance with all applicable laws.
   (B)   This chapter shall apply to all rental units within the city.
(Ord. 17-10, passed 9-5-17)
§ 154.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For purposes of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CITY. The City of Cadiz, Kentucky.
   OCCUPANT. Any lessee of a rental unit.
   RENTAL UNIT. Any residential space available for or being leased.
   RENTAL UNIT PERMIT. A permit issued by the city pursuant to this chapter.
(Ord. 17-10, passed 9-5-17)
§ 154.03 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   Every owner of a rental unit in the city shall apply for and obtain a
rental unit permit before leasing a rental unit to an occupant. The rental unit
permit shall be in addition to the occupational license tax requirements of the
city.
   (B)   Application shall be made on a form furnished by the city and shall at
a minimum set forth the following information:
      (1)   The physical address of the rental unit;
      (2)   The name, address, and telephone number of the owner of the rental
unit; and
      (3)   The name, address, and telephone number of the owner's agent, if
any, employed to manage or maintain the rental unit,
   (C)   After receipt of a complete application, the city's designee shall
inspect the rental unit utilizing a rental inspection checklist approved by the
City Council.
   (D)   Every owner of a rental unit in the city shall notify the city within
14 days of any changes in address or any other changes that render the
information supplied to the city in the rental unit permit application
inaccurate.
   (E)   There shall be no fee charged for a rental unit permit, but there
shall be a fee of $500 to reinstate any revoked rental unit permit.
   (F)   A rental unit permit shall expire one year after issuance or upon a
change in occupant, whichever is sooner. A valid rental unit permit shall be
required at all times that a rental unit is leased to an occupant.
   (G)   City utility services shall not be placed in an occupant's name prior
to issuance of a rental unit permit. No occupant shall occupy a rental unit for
which no rental unit permit has been issued.
   (H)   A rental unit permit is nontransferable.
   (I)   A separate rental unit permit shall be required for each rental unit.
   (J)   No rental unit permit shall be issued regarding a rental unit for
which there are delinquent city property taxes or assessments, unpaid city
utility bills, unpaid city fines, or unpaid city liens.
(Ord. 17-10, passed 9-5-17)
§ 154.04 ONGOING REQUIREMENTS OF PERMITTEES.
   Every permittee shall at all times ensure compliance with the following
minimum requirements:
   (A)   No structure may exceed the maximum permitted number of rental units.
   (B)   No rental unit may be overcrowded or illegally occupied in violation
of any local, state, or federal fire, zoning, property maintenance, building
code, or other law.
   (C)   Every permittee shall maintain a current register of all tenants with
a lawful right to occupy any rental unit.
   (D)   All utility bills, assessments, and taxes shall be timely paid on
every rental unit.
   (E)   The city's designee shall be permitted to inspect every rental unit
that is the subject of a complaint regarding an alleged violation of any local,
state, or federal fire, zoning, property maintenance, building code, or other
law.
(Ord. 17-10, passed 9-5-17)
§ 154.05 EFFECT OF NONCOMPLIANCE.
   (A)   If the city's designee determines that any requirement of this chapter
has been violated, the city's designee who qualifies as a Code Enforcement
Officer pursuant to KRS 66.8805(4) shall issue a citation to the owner of the
rental unit. Said citation may be served by any of the following methods:
      (1)   Personal service to the alleged violator;
      (2)   Leaving a copy of the citation with any person 18 years of age or
older who is on the premises, if the alleged violator is not on the premises at
the time the citation is issued;
      (3)   Mailing a copy of the citation by regular first-class mail to the
last known recorded mailing address of the alleged violator; or
      (4)   If, in the exercise of reasonable diligence, the issuance of a
citation using the methods set out in divisions (A)(1) to (3) above is not
possible, then the citation is properly served by posting a copy of the
citation in a conspicuous place on the premises.
   (B)   Whenever a citation is issued, the city's designee shall also cause a
notice to the tenant(s) to be prominently posted on the rental unit indicating
that the tenant(s) may be required to vacate the rental unit if compliance is
not established. No person other than the city's designee may remove the notice
posted on the rental unit.
   (C)   When a rental unit is condemned, any rental unit permit issued
regarding the condemned rental unit is automatically revoked.
(Ord. 17-10, passed 9-5-17)
§ 154.06 ENFORCEMENT.
   The provisions of this chapter may be enforced by the Code Enforcement
Board.
(Ord. 17-10, passed 9-5-17)
§ 154.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Pursuant to KRS 83A.065(2), a violation of any provision of this
chapter is expressly made a violation subject to a criminal fine. Any person
violating any provision of this chapter shall be guilty of a violation and
shall be fined not less than $25 nor more than $250 for each offense. A
separate offense shall be deemed committed on each day during which or on which
a violation occurs or continues.
   (B)   Pursuant to KRS Chapter 65, a violation of any provision of this
chapter is expressly made a civil offense subject to a civil fine. Any person
violating any provision of this chapter shall be guilty of a violation and
shall be fined not less than $25 nor more than $250 for each offense. A
separate offense shall be deemed committed on each day during which or on which
a violation occurs or continues.
   (C)   The city shall be entitled to pursue a criminal fine, civil fine, or
both, and the pursuit of one shall not be a prerequisite for pursuing the
other.
   (D)   The city shall be entitled to recover all costs and reasonable
attorney's fees incurred by the city in enforcing any provision of this
chapter.
(Ord. 17-10, passed 9-5-2017)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
Table
   
I.   AGREEMENTS
   
II.   ANNEXATIONS
   
III.   DEDICATIONS AND ACCEPTANCES
   
IV.   FRANCHISES
   
V.   VACATIONS
TABLE I: AGREEMENTS
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
                     Agreeing to participate and cooperate in the managed care
Res. 364 6-4-96      program of the KLC Trust that is to be provided by the
                     Bluegrass Occupational Health Network (BOHN) under
                     contract to the KLC Trust
 
   Editor’s note:
          This table is no longer updated. Please contact the office of the
City Clerk for further information regarding ordinances of the subject covered
in this table.
TABLE II: ANNEXATIONS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
676      4-3-84      Annexing certain territory situated north along Lafayette
                     Street
                     Annexing certain territory situated east of the existing
765      4-6-93      city limits along U.S. Highway 68 and the new four-lane
                     highway under construction to and including Trigg County
                     Industrial Park II
                     Annexing certain territory beginning at the north right-
766      4-15-93     of-way line of U.S. 68 and east line of present city
                     limits, this point being approximately 546 feet south of
                     the northeast corner of Wilbur F. Boggess property
94-16    - -94       Annexing certain territory to the city
96-36    12-3-96     Annexing certain territory commonly known as the Aldray
                     Motel property
                     Annexing certain territory located approximately 175 feet
97-46    12-2-97     northwest of the intersection of Hillview Street and
                     Powerline Drive, containing 4.273 acres
                     Annexing certain territory located approximately 625 feet
2000-66  2-1-00      west of Lakota Drive, approximately 320 feet south of Lone
                     Oak Drive, and approximately 200 feet east of Anna Street
                     Extension
                     Annexing certain territory located approximately 625 feet
2000-68  4-4-00      west of Lakota Drive, approximately 320 feet south of Lone
                     Oak Drive, and approximately 200 feet east of Anna Street
                     Extension
                     Annexing certain territory located approximately 0.3 mile
02-86    3-5-02      west of I-24 and 0.15 mile west of Jct. KY 276, on the
                     north side of U.S. 68.
                     Annexing certain territory located approximately 0.3 mile
02-89    6-4-02      west of I-24 and 0.15 mile west of Jct. KY 276, on the
                     north side of U.S. 68. This property is the site of Cadiz-
                     Trigg County Industrial Park No. 3.
11-07    1-3-12      Annexing certain territory into the city limits.
 
   Editor’s note:
          This table is no longer updated. Please contact the office of the
City Clerk for further information regarding ordinances of the subject covered
in this table.
TABLE III: DEDICATIONS AND ACCEPTANCES
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
                     Accepting the dedication of the interior streets in the
755      3-3-92      low-rent public housing development, and approving the
                     names and identifications of the streets as Martindale
                     Street and Mary White Boulevard
94-21    6-6-95      Dedicating and accepting Lovers Lane as a public way or
                     easement
                     Dedicating and accepting the interior streets in the Great
05-10    1-10-06     Oaks Subdivision development (Fairway Trace, Cambridge
                     Court, and Lone Oak Drive)
 
   Editor’s note:
          This table is no longer updated. Please contact the office of the
City Clerk for further information regarding ordinances of the subject covered
in this table.
TABLE IV: FRANCHISES
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
                     Authorizing the transfer of Cable television franchise
Res. 368 11-4-97     from U.S. Cable Television Group, L.P., to Mediacom
                     Southeast
                     Providing for the creation and sale of a franchise for the
04-10    10-14-04    privilege of constructing, transporting, operating,
                     maintaining and distributing natural gas along and under
                     the public right-of-way within the city.
                     Providing for the creation and sale of a franchise for the
09-07    8-4-09      privilege of constructing, transporting, operating,
                     maintaining and distributing natural gas along and under
                     the public right-of-way within the city.
                     Confirming the sale and awarding a gas franchise to Atmos
                     Energy Corporation, of a term of five years for the
09-10    10-6-09     construction, operation and maintenance of a natural gas
                     distribution system along and under public right-of-way
                     within the city.
 
   Editor’s note:
          This table is no longer updated. Please contact the office of the
City Clerk for further information regarding ordinances of the subject covered
in this table.
TABLE V: VACATIONS
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
723      7-11-89     Closing the public way known previously as Barry Road
 
   Editor’s note:
          This table is no longer updated. Please contact the office of the
City Clerk for further information regarding ordinances of the subject covered
in this table.
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Kentucky Revised Statutes
References to Resolutions
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO KENTUCKY REVISED STATUTES
KRS Section Code Section
KRS Section                   Code Section
Ky Constitution, Section 228  36.28
6.050                         32.48
6.955 - 6.975                 33.04
12.020                        34.16
Ch. 13A                       93.02
Ch. 13B                       93.06,
                              116.044
15.410 - 15.510               36.02
16.220                        72.22
17.150                        36.02
18A.225(2)                    113.03
41.240(4)                     33.05
42.450 - 42.495               33.04
Ch. 45A                       34.16
45A.385                       38.25
Ch. 56                        34.16
61.168                        34.16
61.169                        34.16
61.252                        38.11
61.362                        75.01
61.810                        38.61
61.282(2) - (4)               91.15
61.870                        34.01
61.870 - 61.882               31.36
                              34.17,
61.870 - 61.884               38.58,
                              38.64,
                              38.65
61.872 - 61.884               38.15,
                              38.58
61.872(4)                     34.06
61.872(5)                     34.07
61.872(6)                     34.08
61.874(1) - (3)               34.12
61.874(3),(4)                 34.13
61.874(5)                     34.14
61.874(6)                     34.15
                              34.01,
61.878                        34.16,
                              153.06
61.878(1)                     34.16
61.880                        34.09
61.880(1)                     34.16
61.884                        34.11
62.020                        31.01
Ch. 65                        154.99
65.003                        38.02
65.067                        31.01
65.120                        71.99
                              36.25,
65.8801 - 65.8839             36.26,
                              36.36
65.8815(5)                    36.29
66.660                        91.06
66.8805(4)                    154.05
                              38.02,
82.082                        52.06,
                              152.01
82.605 - 82.640               72.22
Ch. 83A                       31.20
83A.010(5)                    10.02
83A.010(6)                    10.02
83A.010(8)                    10.02
83A.030(1)                    30.02
83A.040                       39.02
83A.040(1),(2),(6)            31.21
83A.040(2)(c)                 31.21
83A.040(2)(d)                 31.21
83A.040(3)                    31.21
83A.040(4)                    32.01
83A.040(5)                    32.02
83A.040(6)                    32.02
83A.040(7)                    31.21,
                              32.02
83A.040(8)                    31.21,
                              32.02
83A.040(9)                    31.03
83A.045                       31.20
83A.050                       31.20
83A.060(1)                    32.35
83A.060(2)                    32.36
83A.060(3)                    32.37
83A.060(4),(7)                32.38
83A.060(5)                    32.40
83A.060(6)                    32.22
83A.060(8)                    32.41,
                              32.42
83A.060(9)                    32.43
83A.060(10)                   32.44
83A.060(11)                   32.45
83A.060(12),(13)              32.46
83A.060(14)                   32.47
83A.060(15)                   32.48
                              35.08,
                              51.99,
83A.065(2)                    71.99,
                              92.99,
                              154.99
83A.070                       31.02
83A.075                       31.02
83A.080                       38.03
83A.080(1) - (3)              31.35
83A.080(3)                    31.03
83A.080(4), (5)               31.20
83A.085                       31.36
83A.130                       31.21
83A.130(1)                    30.01
83A.130(2)                    30.02
83A.130(3)                    31.21
83A.130(4)                    31.21
83A.130(5)                    32.20
83A.130(6)                    32.39
83A.130(7)                    31.21
83A.130(8)                    31.21
83A.130(9)                    31.21
83A.130(10)                   31.21
83A.130(11)                   32.03,
                              32.21
83A.130(12)                   32.03
83A.130(13)                   32.03
83A.170                       31.20
83A.175                       32.02
87.030                        32.21
91A.010(6)                    33.01
91A.010(7)                    33.01
91A.010(8)                    10.02
91A.020                       33.02
91A.030                       33.03
91A.040                       33.04
91A.050                       33.04
91A.060                       33.05
91A.080(2)                    113.02
91A.080(3),(10), (13)         113.03
91A.080(8)                    113.05
91A.080(8),(9)                113.04
91A.200                       33.11
91A.210                       33.10
91A.220                       33.11
91A.230                       33.12
91A.240                       33.13
91A.250                       33.14
91A.260                       33.15
91A.270                       33.16
91A.280                       33.17
91A.290                       33.18
91A.400                       35.08
92.300                        35.10
Ch. 100                       151.129
100.211                       151.129
100.217                       151.128
100.217 - 100.271             151.128
100.347                       151.129
100.3681 et seq.              151.128
100.9865                      153.03
100.987                       153.03
100.987(2)                    153.05
Ch. 107                       33.11
Ch. 116 - 121                 31.20
131.010(6)                    113.04
132.285                       35.01
134.800                       35.04
Ch. 136                       35.07
151.250                       152.06
Ch. 154                       34.16
174.100                       91.15
174.100(1),(2)                91.17
174.100(3)                    91.18
174.100(4)                    91.19
174.100(5)                    91.20
178.290                       91.06
186.145                       72.22
186.020                       72.22
186.560                       71.25
186A.145                      72.22
186A.190                      72.22
Ch. 189                       75.17,
                              75.32
189.020                       71.27
189.285                       73.02
189.286                       75.17
189.287                       73.01
189.290                       71.25
189.330(8)                    71.02
189.338                       70.15
189.450(5), (6)               72.03
189.580                       71.15
189.635(9)(b)1.a. to e.       34.01
189.700                       75.01
189.725                       72.08
189.820                       75.16
189.930                       71.26
189.990(1)                    72.99
189.993(8)                    71.99
190.010(8)                    92.01
Ch. 198B                      150.03
198B.060(8)                   150.01
198B.070                      150.03
198B.990(1)                   150.99
224.50-760                    51.01
226.010                       112.01
226.020                       112.02
226.030                       112.07
226.040                       112.03
226.050                       112.04
226.060                       112.08
226.070                       112.03
226.080                       112.06
226.090                       112.06
226.100                       112.08
226.990(1)                    112.99
226.990(3)                    112.99
227.550                       92.01
227.700                       93.01
227.700 - 227.750             93.01,
                              93.06
227.702                       93.01 -
                              93.03
227.702(1)                    93.03
227.704                       93.01
227.706                       93.01
227.708                       93.01
227.710                       93.02
227.715                       93.01 -
                              93.03
227.715(7)-(9)                93.03
227.720                       93.04
227.730                       93.05
227.750                       93.06
227.990(1)                    150.99
227.990(4)                    93.99
Ch. 241                       116.003,
                              116.030
241.010                       116.002
241.060                       116.018
241.190                       116.034
241.160                       116.015
241.170                       116.015
241.200                       116.048
Ch. 242                       116.003,
                              116.030
Ch. 243                       116.003,
                              116.030
                              116.031,
243.070                       116.034,
                              116.036
243.072                       116.034
243.072(4)                    116.034
243.083                       116.034
243.084                       116.031
243.090                       116.040
243.220                       116.044
243.260                       116.031
243.270                       116.035
243.380                       116.043
243.390                       116.043
243.440                       116.046
243.450                       116.048
243.500                       116.048
243.550                       116.048
243.560                       116.044
243.610                       116.006
243.620                       116.046
243.630                       116.041
243.640                       116.041
243.650                       116.041
243.660                       116.041
Ch. 244                       116.003,
                              116.030
244.083                       116.020,
                              116.066
244.130                       116.064
257.100                       90.06
257.100(4)                    90.01
278.010(3)                    153.03
281.011                       92.01
281.605(12)                   72.22
281.925                       72.22
281.928                       72.22
281.932                       72.22
Ch. 304                       113.03
304.39-080                    75.17,
                              75.32
318.990                       150.99
337.285(2)(a) - 337.285(2)(e) 37.10
376.275(1) - (5)              72.22
Ch. 386                       10.02
Ch. 386A                      10.02
411.500 - 411.570             91.99
                              32.43,
                              33.04,
Ch. 424                       33.14,
                              33.15,
                              151.129
424.130                       151.129
424.220                       33.04
436.320                       130.02,
                              130.99
436.600                       90.04,
                              90.99
446.010(1)                    10.02
446.010(2)                    10.02
446.010(6)                    10.02
446.010(8)                    10.02
446.010(9)                    10.02
446.010(10)                   10.02
446.010(12)                   10.02
446.010(13)                   10.02
446.010(14)                   10.02
446.010(15)                   10.02
446.010(17)                   10.02
446.010(18)                   10.02
446.010(23)                   10.02
446.010(25)                   10.02
446.010(26)                   10.02
446.010(27)                   10.02
446.010(28)                   10.02
446.010(30)                   10.02
446.010(31)                   10.02
446.010(33)                   10.02
446.010(36)                   10.02
446.010(37)                   10.02
446.010(39)                   10.02
446.010(43)                   10.02
446.010(46)                   10.02
446.010(47)                   10.02
446.010(49)                   10.02
446.010(55)                   10.02
446.020(1)                    10.03
446.020(2)                    10.03
446.030                       10.04
446.050                       10.05
446.060                       10.06
446.080(1)                    10.03
446.080(3)                    10.03
446.080(4)                    10.03
446.090                       10.07
446.100                       10.08
446.110                       10.09
446.140                       10.01
522.030                       153.06
525.125                       90.03
525.130                       90.03,
                              90.99
525.135                       90.03
527.020                       130.01
                              
 
REFERENCES TO RESOLUTIONS
 
Res. No. Date Passed Code Section
364      6-4-96      T.S.O. I
368      11-4-97     T.S.O. IV
—      6-2-98      37.01 -
                     37.06
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
—      2-8-34      72.03
579      11-5-63     Ch. 74, Sch. I
594      7-1-65      96.01 -
                     96.05
628      - -73       36.02
632      4-2-74      32.21
674      4-3-84      33.03
675      4-3-84      39.01
676      4-3-84      T.S.O. II
681      - -85       31.36
682      - -85       36.01
685      - -85       31.38,
                     150.04
704      3-3-87      113.01 -
                     113.05
                     151.001 -
                     151.006,
                     151.020 -
                     151.025,
                     151.035,
                     151.036,
                     151.050 -
                     151.052,
                     151.065,
722      7-11-89     151.066,
                     151.080,
                     151.081,
                     151.095 -
                     151.097,
                     151.110 -
                     151.112,
                     151.125 -
                     151.130,
                     151.999
723      7-11-89     T.S.O. V
724      8-1-89      73.05,
                     73.99
                     92.01 -
—      3-6-90      92.03,
                     92.99
734      3-6-90      150.15 -
                     150.21
742      3-5-91      150.01
743      3-5-91      35.06
752      11-5-91     95.02
                     51.01 -
754      1-9-92      51.08,
                     51.99
755      3-3-92      T.S.O. III
                     71.40 -
762      3-2-93      71.42,
                     71.46,
                     71.49
765      4-6-93      T.S.O. II
766      4-15-93     T.S.O. II
                     114.01 -
772      3-1-94      114.06,
                     114.99
                     38.01,
                     38.02,
                     38.10 -
                     38.17,
94-14    11-1-94     38.25 -
                     38.30,
                     38.40,
                     38.50 -
                     38.65,
                     38.99, 39.03
94-16    - -94       T.S.O. II
94-21    6-6-95      T.S.O. III
96-31    - -96       130.01
96-33    - -96       91.45 -
                     91.56
96-35    - -96       35.07
96-36    12-3-96     T.S.O. II
                     91.70 -
—      7-15-97     91.72,
                     91.99
97-46    12-2-97     T.S.O. II
98-55    7-7-98      36.15
98-56    10-6-98     35.01,
                     35.03
99-62    9-7-99      Adopting Ordinance
2000-66  2-1-00      T.S.O. II
2000-67  3-7-00      31.20
2000-68  4-4-00      T.S.O. II
2000-74  7-6-00      92.04
00-78    3-6-01      32.21
02-86    3-5-02      T.S.O. II
02-88    5-7-02      36.15
02-89    6-4-02      T.S.O. II
02-91    6-4-02      52.01 -
                     52.04
02-93    8-2-02      151.026
                     115.01 -
04-06    7-6-04      115.21,
                     115.99
04-07    9-7-04      151.125
04-10    10-14-04    T.S.O. IV
04-11    10-14-04    52.01 -
                     52.04
05-03    9-6-05      31.38
05-04    9-6-05      90.07
05-05    9-6-05      31.36
05-06    9-8-05      52.01 -
                     52.04
05-09    9-8-05      39.02
05-10    1-10-06     T.S.O. III
06-01    2-7-06      52.02
07-03    4-3-07      Adopting Ordinance
07-13    10-2-07     113.06
                     110.01 -
08-01    7-1-08      110.05,
                     110.99
09-01    2-3-09      113.01 -
                     113.05
09-02    3-3-09      110.02
09-04    3-3-09      39.03
09-07    8-4-09      T.S.O. IV
09-10    10-6-09     T.S.O. IV
09-11    11-3-09     52.01
                     116.001 -
                     116.006,
                     116.015 -
                     116.020,
10-01    6-1-10      116.030,
                     116.060 -
                     116.068,
                     116.080 -
                     116.084,
                     116.999
11-03    8-2-11      37.10 -
                     37.12
11-04    9-6-11      150.01,
                     150.04
11-07    1-3-12      T.S.O. II
                     97.01 -
12-05    12-4-12     97.11,
                     97.99
13-01    3-5-13      52.03
                     152.01 -
                     152.13,
                     152.25 -
13-02    3-5-13      152.27,
                     152.40 -
                     152.46,
                     152.60 -
                     152.65
                     92.01 -
13-03    3-5-13      92.05,
                     92.99
                     51.01 -
13-04    5-7-13      51.08,
                     51.99
13-05    5-7-13      130.01
13-08    5-7-13      35.08
                     116.030 -
                     116.035,
                     116.039,
13-12    12-3-13     116.044,
                     116.048,
                     116.061,
                     116.062,
                     116.065
14-01    3-4-14      52.05
                     91.46,
14-04    8-5-14      91.52 -
                     91.55
14-05    7-1-14      151.050
14-09    10-7-14     92.02
                     50.001 -
                     50.003,
                     50.015 -
                     50.019,
                     50.030,
                     50.031,
                     50.045 -
                     50.048,
                     50.060 -
                     50.068,
14-11    11-4-14     50.080 -
                     50.096,
                     50.110,
                     50.111,
                     50.125 -
                     50.127,
                     50.140 -
                     50.144,
                     50.155 -
                     50.163,
                     50.175
15-04    5-5-15      52.06
15-06    6-23-15     150.05
                     71.40 -
15-07    7-7-15      71.56,
                     71.99
15-11    9-1-15      150.05
                     75.01,
                     75.02,
15-13    1-5-16      75.15 -
                     75.17,
                     75.30 -
                     75.32
16-01    3-1-16      52.01
16-06    8-2-16      153.01 -
                     153.12
17-07    9-5-17      52.03
17–09  9-5-17      51.08
                     154.01 -
17-10    9-5-17      154.06,
                     154.99
17-11    9-5-17      36.25 -
                     36.39
17-12    11-7-17     95.02
17-13    12-5-17     35.09
17-14    12-5-17     151.128
19-04    4-2-19      52.01
21-03    4-6-1       151.050
21-06    12-7-21     35.10
22-01    3-1-22      52.01
22-05    6-7-22      95.02
22-06    6-7-22      52.01
22-11    11-7-22     36.26
22-12    1-3-23      110.03
22-12    1-3-23   110.03
22-13    1-3-23      113.02,
                     113.03
24-01    3-12-24     52.01
24-04  8-15-24     151.036
                    
 
 
