CATLETTSBURG, KENTUCKY
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2025 S-6 Supplement contains:
Local legislation current through Ord. 9, 2025, passed 6-30-2025; and
State legislation current through KRS 2025
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street, Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
Tel: (800) 445-5588
Internet: http://www.amlegal.com
CITY OFFICIALS OF CATLETTSBURG, KENTUCKY
COUNCIL MEMBER
Susan Campbell
Billy Cornette
Rose Marcum
Mindy Stanley
Tina Taylor
CITY OFFICIALS
MAYOR           Faith Day
CITY CLERK      Vacant
CITY TREASURER  Vacant
CHIEF OF POLICE Cameron E. Logan
FIRE CHIEF      John Carroll
CITY ATTORNEY   Martin, Wheeler, Vincent, PSC
 
ADOPTING ORDINANCES
ORDINANCE NUMBER 1 OF THE 2015 SERIES
AN ORDINANCE PROVIDING FOR A CODE OF ORDINANCES FOR THE CITY OF CATLETTSBURG,
REVISING, AMENDING, RESTATING, CODIFYING, AND COMPILING CERTAIN EXISTING
GENERAL ORDINANCES OF THE CITY DEALING WITH SUBJECTS EMBRACED IN THE CODE.
   WHEREAS, the present general ordinances of the City of Catlettsburg are
incomplete and inadequate and the manner of arrangement, classification and
indexing thereof is insufficient to meet the immediate needs of the City; and
   WHEREAS, the Acts of the Legislature of the Commonwealth of Kentucky empower
and authorize the Legislative Body of this City to revise, amend, restate,
codify and to compile any existing ordinance or ordinances and all new
ordinances not heretofore adopted or published and to incorporate the
ordinances into one ordinance in book form; and
   WHEREAS, the Legislative Body of the City of Catlettsburg has authorized a
general compilation, revision and codification of the ordinances of the City of
a general and permanent nature and publication of such ordinances in book form;
   NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the Legislative Body of the City of
Catlettsburg, Kentucky, that:
   Section 1. The general ordinances of the City of Catlettsburg as herein
revised, amended, restated, codified, and compiled in book form are adopted as
and shall constitute the “Code of Ordinances of the City of Catlettsburg.”
   Section 2. The Code as adopted in Section 1 shall consist of the following
titles:
AS SET FORTH IN EXHIBIT 1 HERETO ATTACHED AND INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE HEREIN
AS IF SET FORTH IN ITS ENTIRETY.
   Section 3. All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated in the
Code shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date of the Code,
except as they are included and reordained in whole or in part in the Code;
provided that such repeal shall not affect any offense committed or penalty
incurred or any right established prior to the effective date of the Code, nor
shall such repeal affect the provisions of ordinances levying taxes,
appropriating money, annexing or detaching territory, establishing franchises
or granting special rights to certain persons, authorizing public improvements,
authorizing the issuance of bonds or borrowing of money, authorizing the
purchase or sale of real or personal property, granting or accepting easements
or plats, accepting dedications of land to public use, vacating or setting the
boundaries of streets or other public places; nor shall such repeal affect any
other ordinance of a temporary or special nature or pertaining to subjects not
contained in or covered by the Code.
   Section 4. The Code shall be deemed published as of the day of its adoption
and approved by the City Legislative Body and the Clerk of the City of
Catlettsburg, Kentucky, is hereby authorized and ordered to file a copy of the
Code in the Office of the City Clerk.
   Section 5. The Code shall be in full force and effect from and after its
date of passage, approval and publication as required by law. The code shall be
presumptive evidence in all courts and places of the ordinance and all
provisions, sections, penalties and regulations therein contained, and of the
date of passage, and that the same is properly signed, attested, recorded and
approved, and that any public hearings and notices thereof as required by law
have been given.
   Passed this 26th day of February, 2015.
   Mayor Randall Peterman \s\
   Mayor of the City of Catlettsburg, Kentucky
First Reading:       January 20, 2015
Second Reading:    February 26, 2015
Published:       March 13, 2015
Recorded:       March 13, 2015
ATTEST:
Helen Barker \s\
Clerk of the city of Catlettsburg, Kentucky
ORDINANCE NUMBER 8 OF THE 2017 SERIES
AN ORDINANCE PROVIDING FOR A CODE OF ORDINANCES FOR THE CITY OF CATLETTSBURG,
REVISING, AMENDING, RESTATING, CODIFYING, AND COMPILING CERTAIN EXISTING
GENERAL ORDINANCES OF THE CITY DEALING WITH SUBJECTS EMBRACED IN THE CODE.
   WHEREAS, the present general ordinances of the City of Catlettsburg are
incomplete and inadequate and the manner of arrangement, classification and
indexing thereof is insufficient to meet the immediate needs of the City; and
   WHEREAS, the Acts of the Legislature of the Commonwealth of Kentucky empower
and authorize the Legislative Body of this City to revise, amend, restate,
codify and to compile any existing ordinance or ordinances and all new
ordinances not heretofore adopted or published and to incorporate the
ordinances into one ordinance in book form; and
   WHEREAS, the Legislative Body of the City of Catlettsburg has authorized a
general compilation, revision and codification of the ordinances of the City of
a general and permanent nature and publication of such ordinances in book form;
   NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the Legislative Body of the City of
Catlettsburg, Kentucky, that:
   Section 1. The general ordinances of the City of Catlettsburg as herein
revised, amended, restated, codified, and compiled in book form are adopted as
and shall constitute the “Code of Ordinances of the City of Catlettsburg.”
   Section 2. The Code as adopted in Section 1 shall consist of the following
titles:
AS SET FORTH IN EXHIBIT 1 HERETO ATTACHED AND INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE HEREIN
AS IF SET FORTH IN ITS ENTIRETY.
   Section 3. All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated in the
Code shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date of the Code,
except as they are included and reordained in whole or in part in the Code;
provided that such repeal shall not affect any offense committed or penalty
incurred or any right established prior to the effective date of the Code, nor
shall such repeal affect the provisions of ordinances levying taxes,
appropriating money, annexing or detaching territory, establishing franchises
or granting special rights to certain persons, authorizing public improvements,
authorizing the issuance of bonds or borrowing of money, authorizing the
purchase or sale of real or personal property, granting or accepting easements
or plats, accepting dedications of land to public use, vacating or setting the
boundaries of streets or other public places; nor shall such repeal affect any
other ordinance of a temporary or special nature or pertaining to subjects not
contained in or covered by the Code.
   Section 4. The Code shall be deemed published as of the day of its adoption
and approved by the City Legislative Body and the Clerk of the City of
Catlettsburg, Kentucky, is hereby authorized and ordered to file a copy of the
Code in the Office of the City Clerk.
   Section 5. The Code shall be in full force and effect from and after its
date of passage, approval and publication as required by law. The code shall be
presumptive evidence in all courts and places of the ordinance and all
provisions, sections, penalties and regulations therein contained, and of the
date of passage, and that the same is properly signed, attested, recorded and
approved, and that any public hearings and notices thereof as required by law
have been given.
   Passed this 19th day of September, 2017.
   Mayor Randall Peterman /s/
   Mayor of the City of Catlettsburg, Kentucky
First Reading:       8-15-17
Second Reading:    9-19-17
Published:       9-25-17
Recorded:                         
ATTEST:
Kay Cole /s/
Clerk of the City of Catlettsburg, Kentucky
ORDINANCE 14, 2021 SERIES
AN ORDINANCE ENACTING AND ADOPTING A SUPPLEMENT TO THE CODE OF ORDINANCES
OF THE CITY OF CATLETTSBURG, KENTUCKY.
   WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati, Ohio has
completed the 2021 S-4 supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the City of
Catlettsburg, which supplement contains all ordinances of a general nature
enacted since the prior supplement to the Code of Ordinances of this
municipality; and
   WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation has recommended the revision
or addition of certain sections of the Code of Ordinances which are based on or
make references to sections of the Kentucky Revised Statutes;
   WHEREAS, it is the intent of Council to accept these updated sections in
accordance with the changes of the law of the Commonwealth of Kentucky;
   NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED, by the City of Catlettsburg:
   Section 1. That the 2021 S-4 supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the
City of Catlettsburg, Kentucky, as submitted by the American Legal Publishing
Corporation of Cincinnati, and as attached hereto, be and the same is hereby
adopted by reference as if set out in its entirety.
   Section 2. That this ordinance shall take effect and be in force from and
after its date of passage, approval and publication as required by law.
   Passed this 29th day of June, 2021.
 
Passed on First Reading:    6-28-21
Adopted on Second Reading:    6-29-21
Signed by Mayor:       Faith Day /s/
Published in the Paper:    7-14-21
 
ATTEST:
Kay Cole /s/
City Clerk
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
CHAPTER 10: RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
Section
   
10.01   Short titles
   
10.02   Definitions
   
10.03   Rules of construction
   
10.04   Computation of time
   
10.05   Majority may act for all; authorized agent
   
10.06   Writings and signatures
   
10.07   Severability
   
10.08   Revivor
   
10.09   Rights and liabilities accruing before repeal of ordinance
   
10.10   Construction of section references
   
10.11   Ordinances repealed
   
10.12   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.13   Ordinances saved
   
10.14   Amendments to code; amendatory language
   
10.15   Conflicting provisions
   
10.16   Reference to offices
   
10.17   Errors and omissions
   
10.18   Historical and statutory references
 
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01 SHORT TITLES.
   (A)   All ordinances of a permanent and general nature of the city as
revised, codified, rearranged, renumbered, and consolidated into component
codes, titles, chapters, and sections shall be known and designated as the
Catlettsburg Code, for which designation “codified ordinances” or “code” may be
substituted. Code, title, chapter, and section headings do not constitute any
part of the law as contained in the code.
   (B)   All references to codes, titles, chapters, and sections are to those
components of the code unless otherwise specified. Any component code may be
referred to and cited by its name, such as the “traffic code.” Sections may be
referred to and cited by the designation “§” followed by the number, such as
“§
10.01.” Headings and captions used in this code other than the title, chapter,
and section numbers are employed for reference purposes only and shall not be
deemed a part of the text of any section.
(Prior Code, § 10.01)
§ 10.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this code, the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACTION. Includes all proceedings in any court of this state.
(KRS 446.010(1))
   AND. May be read OR, and OR may be read AND, if the sense requires it.
   ANIMAL. Includes every warm-blooded living creature except a human being.
(KRS 446.010(2))
   AVIS. The automated vehicle information system established and maintained by
the Transportation Cabinet to collect titling and registration information on
vehicles and boats and information on holders of motor vehicle operator’s
licenses and personal identification cards.
(KRS 446.010(55))
   CITY, MUNICIPAL CORPORATION, or MUNICIPALITY. When used in this code, shall
denote the City of Catlettsburg irrespective of its population or legal
classification.
   COMPANY. May extend and be applied to any corporation, company, person,
partnership, joint stock company, or association.
(KRS 446.010(9))
   CORPORATION. May extend and be applied to any corporation, company,
partnership, joint stock company, or association.
(KRS 446.010(10))
   COUNCIL. The city legislative body.
(KRS 83A.010(5))
   COUNTY. Boyd County, Kentucky.
   CRUELTY. As applied to animals, includes every act or omission whereby
unjustifiable physical pain, suffering, or death is caused or permitted.
(KRS 446.010(12))
   DIRECTORS. When applied to corporations, includes managers or trustees.
(KRS 446.010(13))
   DOMESTIC. When applied to a corporation, partnership, business trust, or
limited liability company, means all those incorporated or formed by authority
of this state.
(KRS 446.010(14))
   DOMESTIC ANIMAL. Any animal converted to domestic habitat.
(KRS 446.010(15))
   EXECUTIVE AUTHORITY. The Mayor.
(KRS 83A.010(6))
   FEDERAL. Refers to the United States.
(KRS 446.010(17))
   FOREIGN. When applied to a corporation, partnership, limited partnership,
business trust, statutory trust, or limited liability company, includes all
those incorporated or formed by authority of any other state.
(KRS 446.010(18))
   KEEPER or PROPRIETOR. Includes all persons, whether acting by themselves or
as a servant, agent, or employee.
   LAND or REAL ESTATE. Includes lands, tenements, and hereditaments and all
rights thereto and interest therein, other than a chattel interest.
(KRS 446.010(23))
   LEGISLATIVE BODY. The City Council.
(KRS 91A.010(8))
   LEGISLATIVE BODY MEMBER. A City Council member.
(KRS 83A.010(8))
   LIVESTOCK. Cattle, sheep, swine, goats, horses, alpacas, llamas, buffaloes,
or any other animals of the bovine, ovine, porcine, caprine, equine, or camelid
species.
(KRS 446.010(25)
   MAY. The act referred to is permissive.
(KRS 446.010(26))
   MONTH. Calendar month.
(KRS 446.010(27))
   MUNICIPALITY. The City of Catlettsburg, Kentucky.
   OATH. Includes affirmation, in all cases in which an affirmation may be
substituted for an OATH. (KRS 446.010(28))
   PARTNERSHIP. Includes both general and limited PARTNERSHIPS.
(KRS 446.010(30))
   PEACE OFFICER. Includes sheriffs, constables granted police powers,
coroners, jailers, metropolitan and urban-county government correctional
officers, marshals, police officers, and other persons with similar authority
to make arrests.
(KRS 446.010(31))
   PERSON. May extend and be applied to bodies-politic and corporate,
societies, communities, the public generally, individuals, partnerships, joint
stock companies, and limited liability companies.
(KRS 446.010(33))
   PERSONAL PROPERTY. Includes all property except real.
   PREMISES. As applied to property, includes land and buildings.
   PROPERTY. Includes real, personal, mixed estates, and interests.
   PUBLIC AUTHORITY. Includes boards of education; the municipal, county,
state, or federal government, its officers or an agency thereof; or any duly
authorized public official.
   PUBLIC PLACE. Includes any street, sidewalk, park, cemetery, school yard,
body of water or watercourse, public conveyance, or any other place for the
sale of merchandise, public accommodation, or amusement.
   REAL PROPERTY. Includes lands, tenements, and hereditaments.
   REGULAR ELECTION. The election in even-numbered years at which members of
Congress are elected, and the election in odd-numbered years at which state
officers are elected.
(KRS 446.010(37))
   SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory.
(KRS 446.010(39))
   SIDEWALK. The portion of the street between the curb line and the adjacent
property line intended for the use of pedestrians.
   STATE. The Commonwealth of Kentucky.
   STREET. Includes alleys, avenues, boulevards, lanes, roads, highways,
viaducts, and all other public thoroughfares within the city.
   SUBCHAPTER. A division of a chapter, designated in this code by a heading in
the chapter analysis and a capitalized heading in the body of the chapter,
setting apart a group of sections related by the subject matter of the heading.
Not all chapters have SUBCHAPTERS.
   SWORN. Includes affirmed in all cases in which an affirmation may be
substituted for an oath.
(KRS 446.010(43))
   TENANT or OCCUPANT. As applied to premises, includes any person holding a
written or oral lease, or who actually occupies the whole or any part of the
premises, alone or with others.
   VACANCY IN OFFICE. Exists when there is an unexpired part of a term of
office without a lawful incumbent therein, when the person elected or appointed
to an office fails to qualify according to law, or when there has been no
election to fill the office at the time appointed by law; it applies whether
the VACANCY is occasioned by death, resignation, removal from the state,
county, city, or district, or otherwise.
(KRS 446.010(46))
   VIOLATE. Includes failure to comply with.
(KRS 446.010(47))
   YEAR. Calendar year.
(KRS 446.010(49))
(Prior Code, § 10.02)
§ 10.03 RULES OF CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   Singular includes plural. A word importing the singular number only
may extend and be applied to several persons or things, as well as to one
person or thing, and a word importing the plural number only may extend and be
applied to one person or thing as well as to several persons or things.
(KRS 446.020(1))
   (B)   Masculine includes feminine. A word importing the masculine gender
only may extend and be applied to females as well as males.
(KRS 446.020(2))
   (C)   Liberal construction. All sections of this code shall be liberally
construed with a view to promote their objects and carry out the intent of
Council.
(KRS 446.080(1))
   (D)   Retroactivity. No ordinance shall be construed to be retroactive,
unless expressly so declared.
(KRS 446.080(3))
   (E)   Technical terms. All words and phrases shall be construed according to
the common and approved usage of language, but technical words and phrases and
others as may have acquired a peculiar and appropriate meaning in the law,
shall be construed according to that meaning.
(KRS 446.080(4))
(Prior Code, § 10.03)
§ 10.04 COMPUTATION OF TIME.
   (A)   In computing any period of time prescribed or allowed by order of
court, or by any applicable ordinance or regulation, the day of the act, event,
or default after which the designated period of time begins to run is not to be
included. The last day of the period so computed is to be included, unless it
is a Saturday, a Sunday, a legal holiday, or a day on which the public office
in which a document is required to be filed is actually and legally closed, in
which event the period runs until the end of the next day which is not one of
the days just mentioned. When the period of time prescribed or allowed is less
than seven days, intermediate Saturdays, Sundays, and legal holidays shall be
excluded in the computation.
   (B)   When an ordinance, regulation, or order of court requires an act to be
done either at a certain time before an event or a certain time before the day
on which an event occurs, the day of the event shall be excluded in computing
the time. If the day thereby computed on which or by which the act is required
to be done falls on a Saturday, Sunday, legal holiday, or a day on which the
public office in which the act is required to be completed is actually and
legally closed, the act may be done on the next day which is none of the days
just mentioned.
   (C)   If any proceeding is directed by law to take place, or any act is
directed to be done, on a particular day of a month and that day is Sunday, the
proceeding shall take place, or the act shall be done, on the next day that is
not a legal holiday.
(KRS 446.030)
   (D)   In all cases where the law requires any act to be done in a reasonable
time or reasonable notice to be given, REASONABLE TIME OR NOTICE shall mean the
time only as may be necessary for the prompt performance of the duty or
compliance with the notice.
(Prior Code, § 10.04)
§ 10.05 MAJORITY MAY ACT FOR ALL; AUTHORIZED AGENT.
   (A)   Words giving authority to three or more public officers or other
persons shall be construed as giving the authority to a majority of the
officers or other persons.
(KRS 446.050)
   (B)   When the law requires an act to be done which may by law as well be
done by an agent as by the principal, the requirement shall be construed to
include those acts when done by an authorized agent.
(Prior Code, § 10.05)
§ 10.06 WRITINGS AND SIGNATURES.
   (A)   When this code requires any writing to be signed by a party thereto,
it shall not be deemed to be signed unless the signature is subscribed at the
end or close of the writing.
   (B)   Every writing contemplated by this code shall be in the English
language.
(KRS 446.060) (Prior Code, § 10.06)
§ 10.07 SEVERABILITY.
   It shall be considered that it is the intent of Council in enacting any
ordinance, that if any part of the ordinance be held unconstitutional the
remaining parts shall remain in force, unless the ordinance provides otherwise,
or unless the remaining parts are so essentially and inseparably connected with
and dependent upon the unconstitutional part that it is apparent that Council
would not have enacted the remaining parts without the unconstitutional part;
or unless the remaining parts, standing alone, are incomplete and incapable of
being executed in accordance with the intent of Council.
(KRS 446.090) (Prior Code, § 10.07)
§ 10.08 REVIVOR.
   (A)   A repealed ordinance without a delayed effective date is revived when
the ordinance that repealed it is repealed by another ordinance enacted at the
same meeting of Council.
   (B)   A repealed ordinance with a delayed effective date is revived by the
enactment of a repealer of the ordinance that repealed it at the same or any
subsequent meeting of Council as long as it takes effect prior to the effective
date of the original repealer.
   (C)   An amended ordinance without a delayed effective date remains
unchanged with respect to an amendment which is repealed at the same meeting of
Council which enacted the amendment.
   (D)   An amended ordinance with a delayed effective date remains unchanged
with respect to that amendment if the ordinance making the amendment is
repealed at the same or at a subsequent meeting of Council, as long as the
repealing ordinance takes effect prior to the effective date of the original
amendment.
   (E)   No other action of Council repealing a repealer or an amendment shall
have the effect of reviving the original language of the repealer or amendment,
as the case may be.
(KRS 446.100) (Prior Code, § 10.08)
§ 10.09 RIGHTS AND LIABILITIES ACCRUING BEFORE REPEAL OF ORDINANCE.
   No new ordinance shall be construed to repeal a former ordinance as to any
offense committed against a former ordinance, nor as to any act done, or
penalty, forfeiture, or punishment incurred, or any right accrued or claim
arising under the former ordinance, or in any way whatever to affect any
offense or act so committed or done, or any penalty, forfeiture, or punishment
so incurred, or any right accrued or claim arising before the new ordinance
takes effect, except that the proceedings thereafter had shall conform, so far
as practicable, to the laws in force at the time of the proceedings. If any
penalty, forfeiture, or punishment is mitigated by any provision of the new
ordinance, the provision may, by the consent of the party affected, be applied
to any judgment pronounced after the new ordinance takes effect.
(KRS 446.110) (Prior Code, § 10.09)
§ 10.10 CONSTRUCTION OF SECTION REFERENCES.
   (A)   Wherever in a penalty section reference is made to a violation of a
section or an inclusive group of sections, the reference shall be construed to
mean a violation of any provision of the section or sections included in the
reference.
   (B)   References in the code to action taken or authorized under designated
sections of the code include, in every case, action taken or authorized under
the applicable legislative provision which is superseded by this code.
   (C)   Whenever in one section reference is made to another section hereof,
the reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified, or renumbered, unless the subject matter be
changed materially altered by the amendment or revision.
(Prior Code, § 10.10)
§ 10.11 ORDINANCES REPEALED.
   This code, from and after its effective date, shall contain all of the
provisions of a general nature pertaining to the subjects herein enumerated and
embraced. All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated by this code
shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date of this code of
ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 10.11)
§ 10.12 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature, and all other ordinances
pertaining to subjects not enumerated and embraced in this code of ordinances,
shall remain in full force and effect unless herein repealed expressly or by
necessary implication.
(Prior Code, § 10.12)
§ 10.13 ORDINANCES SAVED.
   Whenever an ordinance by its nature either authorizes or enables the
Council, or a certain city officer or employee, to make additional ordinances
or regulations for the purpose of carrying out the intent of the ordinance, all
ordinances and regulations of a similar nature serving the purpose effected
prior to the codification and not inconsistent thereto shall remain in effect
and are saved.
(Prior Code, § 10.13)
§ 10.14 AMENDMENTS TO CODE; AMENDATORY LANGUAGE.
   (A)   Any chapter, section, or division amended or added to this code by
ordinances passed subsequent to this code may be numbered in accordance with
the numbering system of this code and printed for inclusion herein. Any
chapter, section, or division repealed by subsequent ordinances may be excluded
from this code by omission from reprinted pages. Subsequent ordinances as
printed or omitted shall be prima facie evidence of the subsequent ordinances
until Council shall adopt a new code of ordinances.
   (B)   The method of amendment set forth in §
32.32 should be used by the city to amend, add, or repeal a chapter, section,
or division of this code of ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 10.14)
§ 10.15 CONFLICTING PROVISIONS.
   If the provisions of different codes, chapters, or sections of the codified
ordinances conflict with or contravene each other, the provisions bearing the
latest passage date shall prevail. If the conflicting provisions bear the same
passage date, the conflict shall be so construed as to be consistent with the
meaning or legal effect of the questions of the subject matter taken as a
whole.
(Prior Code, § 10.15)
§ 10.16 REFERENCE TO OFFICES.
   Reference to a public office or officer shall be deemed to apply to any
office, officer, or employee of the city exercising the powers, duties, or
functions contemplated in the provision, irrespective of any transfer of
functions or change in the official title of the functionary.
(Prior Code, § 10.16)
§ 10.17 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   (A)   If a manifest error be discovered, consisting of the misspelling of
any word or words, the omission of any word or words necessary to express the
intention of the provisions affected, the use of a word or words to which no
meaning can be attached, or the use of a word or words when another word or
words was clearly intended to express the intention, the spelling shall be
corrected, and the word or words supplied, omitted, or substituted as will
conform with the manifest intention, and the provision shall have the same
effect as though the correct words were contained in the text as originally
published.
   (B)   No alteration shall be made or permitted if any question exists
regarding the nature or extent of the error.
(Prior Code, § 10.17)
§ 10.18 HISTORICAL AND STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   As histories for the code sections, the specific number and passage
date of the original ordinance, and the amending ordinances, if any, are listed
following the text of the code section. Example:
(Ord. 10, passed 5-13-1960; Ord. 15, passed 1-1-1970; Ord. 20, passed 1-1-1980;
Ord. 25, passed 1-1-1985)
   (B)   If a KRS cite is included in the history, this indicates that the text
of the section reads word-for-word the same as the statute. Example:
(KRS 83A.090)
   (C)   If a KRS cite is set forth as a “statutory reference” following the
text of the section, this indicates that the reader should refer to that
statute for further information. Example:
§ 39.01 PUBLIC RECORDS AVAILABLE.
   This municipality shall make available to any person for inspection or
copying all public records, unless otherwise exempted by state law.
Statutory reference:
   Inspection of public records, see KRS 61.870 et seq.
(Prior Code, § 10.18)
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   Where an act or omission is prohibited or declared unlawful in this code of
ordinances, and no penalty is otherwise provided, the offense shall be deemed a
violation, and the offender shall be fined not more than $250 for each offense.
(Prior Code, § 10.99)
Statutory reference:
   Enforcement of ordinances, see KRS 83A.065
   Maximum fine for violations, see KRS 534.040(2)(c)
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   MAYOR-COUNCIL PLAN
      
31.   CITY OFFICIALS AND EMPLOYEES
      
32.   CITY COUNCIL
      
33.   FINANCE AND REVENUE
      
34.   TAXATION
      
35.   CITY ORGANIZATIONS
      
36.   POLICE DEPARTMENT; FIRE DEPARTMENT
      
37.   EMPLOYMENT POLICIES
      
38.   PROCUREMENT CODE
      
39.   PUBLIC RECORDS
      
40.   ANTI-DISPLACEMENT AND RELOCATION ASSISTANCE
CHAPTER 30: MAYOR-COUNCIL PLAN
Section
   
30.01   Form of government
   
30.02   Governing officers
§ 30.01 FORM OF GOVERNMENT.
   The form of government provided for this city shall be known as the “Mayor-
Council Plan.”
(KRS 83A.130(1)) (Prior Code, § 30.01)
§ 30.02 GOVERNING OFFICERS.
   (A)   The city shall be governed by an elected executive who shall be called
Mayor and by an elected legislative body which shall be called the City
Council, and by other officers and employees as are provided for by statute or
city ordinance.
(KRS 83A.130(2))
   (B)   The City Council shall be composed of not less than six nor more than
12 members as prescribed by ordinance in cities of the second, third, and
fourth classes. An ordinance amending the number of Council members shall be:
      (1)   Enacted and filed with the County Clerk of any county or counties
in which the city is located by no later than the first Wednesday after the
first Monday in November of the year preceding the year in which the
legislative offices will appear on the ballot; and
      (2)   Crafted in such a manner that the amended number of Council members
becomes effective on January 1 of the year following the election of the number
of Council members specified in the amending ordinance.
(KRS 83A.030(1))
(Prior Code, § 30.02)
CHAPTER 31: CITY OFFICIALS AND EMPLOYEES
Section
General Provisions
   
31.01   Oath; bond
   
31.02   Compensation
   
31.03   Removal from office
Elected Officials
   
31.15   Election procedure
   
31.16   Mayor
   
31.17   Council members
Nonelected Officials
   
31.30   Establishment of nonelected city offices
   
31.31   Building Inspector
City Employees
   
31.45   Legal Counsel (City Attorney)
   
31.46   Fire Chief
   
31.47   Police Chief
   
31.48   City Clerk
   
31.49   City Treasurer
Electrical Inspector
   
31.60   Scope, purpose, and compliance
   
31.61   Position of Electrical Inspector
   
31.62   Approval required on new installation
   
31.63   Inspection of buildings and disconnection of defective equipment
   
31.64   Notice of intention to install wiring or to make alterations;
exceptions
   
31.65   Permits
   
31.66   Schedule of electric permit and inspection fees
   
31.67   Certification
   
31.68   Conflict
   
31.69   Effective date
 
   
31.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 31.01 OATH; BOND.
   (A)   Each officer of the city shall, before entering upon the discharge of
duties of his or her office, take the following oath: “I do solemnly swear (or
affirm, as the case may be) that I will support the Constitution of this
Commonwealth, and the Constitution of the United States, and be faithful and
true to the Commonwealth of Kentucky, so long as I continue a citizen thereof,
and that I will faithfully execute, to the best of my ability, the office of
__________, according to law; and I do further solemnly swear (or affirm) that,
since the adoption of the present Constitution, I, being a citizen of this
United States, have not fought a duel with deadly weapons within this State,
nor out of it, nor have I sent or accepted a challenge to fight a duel with
deadly weapons, nor have I acted as a second in carrying a challenge, nor aided
or assisted any person thus offending, so help me God,” as established by § 228
of the commonwealth’s Constitution.
   (B)   Official bonds shall, if required, meet the standards of KRS 62.060.
   (C)   All officers and employees of the city who handle public funds in the
execution of their duties shall give a good and sufficient bond to the city for
the faithful and honest performance of their duties, and as security for all
money coming into the officer’s hands or under the officer’s control. The
amount of the bond shall be established based on the amount of public funds the
officer handles at any point in time during the fiscal year and may be
satisfied by a blanket or umbrella bond covering all or a group of city
officers and employees. The cost of the bond shall be paid by the city.
   (D)   Elected officials who post bond as required by statute, and employees
of their offices covered by a blanket or umbrella bond, shall be deemed to have
complied with division (B) above.
(KRS 65.067) (Prior Code, § 31.01)
§ 31.02 COMPENSATION.
   (A)   City Council shall establish the compensation of every elected city
officer not later than the first Monday in May in the year in which the officer
is elected. An elected officer’s compensation shall not be changed after his or
her election or during his or her term of office.
(KRS 83A.070(1))
      (1)   In order to equate the compensation of mayors and Council members
with the purchasing power of the dollar, the Governor’s Office for Local
Development computes by the second Friday in February of every year the annual
increase or decrease in the consumer price index of the preceding year by using
1949 as the base year in accordance with § 246 of the Constitution of the
commonwealth, which provides that the mayor in cities of the first class shall
be paid at a rate no greater than $12,000 per annum, and mayors in cities other
than the first class and Council members shall be paid at a rate no greater
than $7,200 per annum.
      (2)   The City Council shall set the compensation of these officers in
accordance with KRS 83A.070 at a rate no greater than that stipulated by the
Governor’s Office for Local Development.
(KRS 83A.075)
   (B)   The City Council shall establish the compensation of city employees
and nonelected city officers in accordance with the personnel and pay
classification plan ordinance of the city.
(KRS 83A.070(2))
   (C)   All fees and commissions authorized by law shall be paid into the city
treasury for the benefit of the city and shall not be retained by any officer
or employee.
(KRS 83A.070(3))
(Prior Code, § 31.02)
Case law reference:
   The limits on compensation contained in the Kentucky Constitution are not
absolute limits but rather increase or decrease in accordance with changes in
the consumer price index. See Matthews v Allen, 360 SW2d 248 (1948).
Editor’s note:
   Compensation ordinances are not set forth in this code but are rather kept
on file and available for public inspection in the office of the Clerk-
Treasurer.
§ 31.03 REMOVAL FROM OFFICE.
   (A)   Elected officers.
      (1)   Any elected officer, in case of misconduct, incapacity, or willful
neglect in the performance of the duties of his or her office, may be removed
from office by a unanimous vote of the members of the City Council exclusive of
any member to be removed, who shall not vote in the deliberation of his or her
removal.
      (2)   No elected officer shall be removed without having been given the
right to a full public hearing. The officer, if removed, has the right to
appeal to the Circuit Court of the county and the appeal shall be on the
record.
      (3)   No officer so removed is eligible to fill the office vacated before
the expiration of the term to which originally elected.
   (B)   Nonelected officers. Nonelected city officers may be removed by the
Mayor at will, unless otherwise provided by state law or ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 31.03)
Statutory reference:
   Removal of elected officers, see KRS 83A.040(9)
   Removal of nonelected officers, see KRS 83A.080(3)
ELECTED OFFICIALS
§ 31.15 ELECTION PROCEDURE.
   (A)   (1)   Election of city officers is governed by general election laws
as provided in KRS Ch. 116 through 121 unless City Council otherwise prescribes
by ordinance that election of city officers shall be under nonpartisan city
election laws as provided in KRS Ch. 83A.
      (2)   The ordinance shall become effective not later than 23 days prior
to the date prescribed by the election law generally for filing notification
and declaration forms with the County Clerk in a year in which a regular
election is to be held in which any city office is to be filled.
      (3)   Immediately subsequent to publication of any ordinance prescribing
that election of city officers be under nonpartisan city election laws, a copy
of the ordinance shall be filed with the County Clerk.
   (B)   The city may change the manner of election of city officers within the
provisions of division (A) above by ordinance, except that no change shall be
made earlier than five years from the last change.
   (C)   The city shall pay the costs of city elections only if city elections
are held at a time other than prescribed by law for elections generally.
(KRS 83A.050)
   (D)   Each appointed and elected city office existing upon adoption of this
chapter shall continue until abolished by ordinance, except that the offices of
Mayor and City Council members may not be abolished.
   (E)   No abolition of any elected office shall take effect until expiration
of the term of the current holder of the office.
   (F)   No ordinance abolishing any elected office shall be enacted later than
240 days preceding the regular election for that office, except in the event of
a vacancy in the office.
(KRS 83A.080(4))
   (G)   The city may not create any elected office. Existing elected offices
may be continued under provision of divisions (D), (E), and (F) above, but no
existing elected office may be changed.
(KRS 83A.080(5))
(Prior Code, § 31.20)
§ 31.16 MAYOR.
    (A)   Election; term of office.
      (1)   The Mayor of this city shall be elected by the voters of the city
at a regular election. A candidate for Mayor shall be a resident of the city
for not less than one year prior to his or her election. His or her term of
office begins on January 1 following his or her election and shall be for four
years and until his or her successor qualifies.
      (2)   If a person is selected or appointed as Mayor in response to a
vacancy and serves less than four calendar years, then that period of service
shall not be considered for purposes of re-election to a term of office.
   (B)   Qualifications. The Mayor shall be at least 25 years of age, shall be
a qualified voter in the city, and shall reside in the city throughout his or
her term of office.
(KRS 83A.040(1))
   (C)   Vacancy. If a vacancy occurs in the office of Mayor, Council shall
fill the vacancy within 30 days. If for any reason, any vacancy in the office
of Mayor is not filled within 30 days after it occurs, the Governor shall
promptly fill the vacancy by appointment of a qualified person who shall serve
for the same period as if otherwise appointed.
(KRS 83A.040(2)(a), (6))
      (1)   When voting to fill a vacancy in the office of Mayor, a member of
the City Council shall not vote for himself or herself.
(KRS 83A.040(2)(c))
      (2)   When voting to fill a vacancy created by the resignation of the
Mayor, the resigning Mayor shall not vote on his or her successor.
(KRS 83A.040(3))
      (3)   No vacancy by reason of a voluntary resignation in the office of
Mayor shall occur unless a written resignation which specifies the resignation
date is tendered to the City Council. The resignation may be submitted through
electronic mail if it originates from the Mayor’s electronic mail address and
includes also the Mayor’s handwritten signature. The resignation shall be
effective at the next regular or special meeting of the City Council occurring
on or after the date specified in the written letter of resignation. If a
resignation date is not specified, the written resignation shall be deemed to
become effective at the first regular or special meeting of the City Council
occurring on or after its receipt.
(KRS 83A.040(7))
      (4)   If a vacancy occurs in the office of Mayor which is required by law
to be filled temporarily by appointment, the City Council shall immediately
notify in writing both the County Clerk and the Secretary of State of the
vacancy.
(KRS 83A.040(8))
      (5)   The City Council shall elect from among its members an individual
to preside over meetings of the City Council during any vacancy in the office
of the Mayor in accordance with the provisions of KRS 83A.130 to 83A.150.
(KRS 83A.040(2)(d))
   (D)   Powers and duties.
      (1)   (a)   The executive authority of the city is hereby vested in and
shall be exercised by the Mayor. The Mayor shall enforce the Mayor-Council
Plan, city ordinances and orders, and all applicable statutes.
         (b)   He or she shall supervise all departments of city government and
the conduct of all city officers and employees under his or her jurisdiction
and require each department to make reports to him or her as required by
ordinance or as he or she deems desirable.
      (2)   The Mayor shall maintain liaison with related units of local
government respecting interlocal contracting and joint activities.
      (3)   The Mayor shall report to the Council and to the public on the
condition and needs of city government as he or she finds appropriate or as
required by ordinance, but not less than annually. He or she shall make any
recommendations for actions by the Council he or she finds in the public
interest. (KRS 83A.130(3))
      (4)   Subject to disapproval of the Council, the Mayor shall promulgate
procedures to ensure orderly administration of the functions of city government
and compliance with statutes or ordinances. Upon promulgation or upon revision
or rescission of the procedures, copies shall be filed with the person
responsible for maintaining city records.
(KRS 83A.130(4))
      (5)   Any delegation of the Mayor’s power, duties, or responsibilities to
subordinate officers and employees and any expression of his or her official
authority to fulfill executive functions shall be made by executive order.
Executive orders shall be sequentially numbered by years and kept in a
permanent file.
(KRS 83A.130(7))
      (6)   All bonds, notes, contracts, and written obligations of the city
shall be made and executed by the Mayor or his or her agent designated by
executive order.
(KRS 83A.130(8))
      (7)   The Mayor shall be the appointing authority with power to appoint
and remove all city employees, including police officers, except as tenure and
terms of employment are protected by statute, ordinance, or contract and except
for employees of the Council.
(KRS 83A.130(9))
      (8)   (a)   The Mayor shall provide for the orderly continuation of the
functions of city government at any time he or she is unable to attend to the
duties of his or her office by delegating responsibility for any function to be
performed, in accordance with division (D)(5) above. However, the Mayor may not
delegate the responsibility of presiding at meetings of the Council, and the
authority to approve ordinances or promulgate administrative procedures may
only be delegated to an elected officer.
         (b)   With approval of the Council, the Mayor may rescind any action
taken in his or her absence under this section within 30 days of the action. If
for any reason, the disability of the Mayor to attend to his or her duties
persists for 60 consecutive days, the office of Mayor may be declared vacant by
a majority vote of the Council and the provisions of division (C) above.
(KRS 83A.130(10))
(Prior Code, § 31.21)
§ 31.17 COUNCIL MEMBERS.
   For provisions concerning City Council, see
Chapter 32 of this code of ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 31.22)
NONELECTED OFFICIALS
§ 31.30 ESTABLISHMENT OF NONELECTED CITY OFFICES.
   (A)   All nonelected city offices shall be created by ordinance which shall
specify:
      (1)   Title of office;
      (2)   Powers and duties of office;
      (3)   Oath of office; and
      (4)   Bond, if required.
(KRS 83A.080)
   (B)   With the exception of the Police Chief and all city police officers,
all nonelected city officers shall be appointed by the Mayor with approval of
City Council. The Police Chief and all city police officers shall be appointed
by the Mayor at will and these appointments need not be approved by City
Council.
   (C)   (1)   All nonelected officers may be removed by the Mayor at will
unless otherwise provided by state law or ordinance. Upon removal of a
nonelected officer at will, the Council shall give the officer a written
statement setting forth the reason or reasons for the removal.
      (2)   However, this requirement shall not be construed as limiting in any
way the at-will dismissal power of the Mayor.
(KRS 83A.080(3))
(Prior Code, § 31.35)
Statutory reference:
   Nonelected city offices, see KRS 83A.080(2),(3)
§ 31.31 BUILDING INSPECTOR.
   (A)   The city hereby establishes the office of the Building Inspector.
   (B)   The Building Inspector shall scrutinize all requests for and issue
building permits. Other duties of the Building Inspector are as listed in §
150.16.
   (C)   Compensation shall be in the amount as established by Council from
time to time as set forth in §
31.02.
   (D)   No person shall be appointed or act as the Building Inspector unless
such person has taken the oath required by § 228 of the Constitution of the
commonwealth and has provided a bond in the sum as may be established by
Council with corporate surety authorized to transact business in the
commonwealth and conditioned upon the performance of the duties specified
herein.
(Prior Code, § 31.37)
CITY EMPLOYEES
§ 31.45 LEGAL COUNSEL (CITY ATTORNEY).
   (A)   The position of Legal Counsel for the city is hereby established.
   (B)   The Legal Counsel will be responsible for preparing routine
ordinances, attending regular Council meetings, giving legal advice to the
Mayor and City Council, and other routine matters.
   (C)   Appointment to the position of Legal Counsel shall be filled by the
Mayor. The Mayor is authorized to execute an annual personal service contract
with the person so appointed.
(Prior Code, § 31.50) (Ord. 2-1986, passed - -)
§ 31.46 FIRE CHIEF.
   For provisions concerning the Fire Chief, see §
36.15.
(Prior Code, § 31.51)
§ 31.47 POLICE CHIEF.
   For provisions concerning the Police Chief, see §
36.31.
(Prior Code, § 31.52)
§ 31.48 CITY CLERK.
   (A)   Established. The city hereby establishes the office of the City Clerk.
   (B)   Appointment. The City Clerk shall be appointed by the Mayor and shall
assume office upon approval by the City Council.
   (C)   Oath. However, before assuming office, the City Clerk shall take the
oath required under §
31.01(A).
   (D)   Salary. The annual salary of the City Clerk shall be in an amount as
established by Council from time to time.
   (E)   Duties and responsibilities. The duties and responsibilities of the
City Clerk shall include, but are not limited to the following:
      (1)   Maintenance and safekeeping of the permanent records of the city.
      (2)   Performance of the duties under the required of the “official
custodian” or “custodian” of records under the Kentucky Open Records Act.
      (3)   Possession of the seal of the city, if used.
      (4)   No later than January 31, of each year, mail to the Governor's
Office for Local Development, a list of current city information, as set forth
by statute.
      (5)   The City Clerk shall also hold the responsibility of publishing the
legal advertisements for the city, unless a statute specifically requires
publication by another person.
      (6)   Perform light bookkeeping and prepare the city payroll.
      (7)   Take and type minutes for the City Council meetings.
      (8)   Performance of any other duties and responsibilities required of a
city clerk by statute or ordinance.
(Ord. 3-2009, passed 3-17-2009)
§ 31.49 CITY TREASURER.
(A)   Established. The city hereby establishes the office of the City
Treasurer.
   (B)   Appointed. The City Treasurer shall be appointed by the mayor and
shall assume office upon approval by the City Council.
   (C)   Oath. However, before assuming office the City Treasurer shall take
the oath required under §
31.01(A) of the city code.
   (D)   Salary. The annual salary of the City Treasurer shall be in an amount
as established by Council from time to time.
   (E)   Duties. The Treasurer shall be designated as a cashier for the city
and is charged with the following duties and responsibilities:
      (1)   The receipt and safekeeping of all money paid or belonging to the
city.
      (2)   The disbursement of money as directed by the City Council upon
warrants drawn the Mayor and countersigned by the City Clerk.
      (3)   The maintenance of complete, and accurate accounts and records
showing when receipts are received, from whom and the purposes for such
receipts.
      (4)   The maintenance of complete and accurate accounts and records
showing when disbursements are made, to whom, and the basis for such
disbursements.
      (5)   The presentation of a monthly report to the City Council showing
the receipts and disbursements during the previous month.
      (6)   The submission of a quarterly report showing the current status of
expenditures under the city budget.
      (7)   The performance of any other duties and responsibilities required
of a City Treasurer by statute or ordinance.
   (F)   Bonded. The City Treasurer shall be bonded in accordance with the
requirements of the Kentucky Revised Statutes.
   (G)   Tax Collector. The City Treasurer is designated tax collector for the
city and shall collect the taxes provided for by ordinance and shall perform
all tasks not specifically designated by ordinances as the responsibility of
another to accomplish such collection of taxes.
(Ord. 4-2009, passed 3-17-2009)
ELECTRICAL INSPECTOR
§ 31.60 SCOPE, PURPOSE, AND COMPLIANCE.
   (A)   Scope. This subchapter shall be known and may be cited as the
“Electrical Ordinance of the City of Catlettsburg, Kentucky” (“the
subchapter”).
   (B)   Purpose. This subchapter is hereby declared to be remedial and shall
be construed to secure the beneficial interests and purposes of public safety,
health, and welfare through structural strength and stability, and safety of
life and property from fire hazards incidental to the installation, alteration,
repair, and/or removal of electrical wiring or equipment.
   (C)   Compliance with national code. All electrical wiring installation of
electrical apparatus and appliances for furnishing light, heat, or power in the
city from and after the passage of the ordinance codified herein, shall comply
in all respects with the rules and regulations of the National Electric Code of
the National Fire Protection Association as issued, revised, and in effect from
time to time hereafter, and with the provisions of this subchapter, the laws of
the commonwealth, and other applicable ordinances of the city as now exist and
as may be amended.
   (D)   Compliance with American Society of Heating and Air Conditioning
Engineers. All installations of resistance electric heating shall comply with
the latest recommendations of the American Society of Heating and Air
Conditioning Engineers.
(Ord. 4, 2012 Series, passed 4-17-2012)
§ 31.61 POSITION OF ELECTRICAL INSPECTOR.
   (A)   Position of Electrical Inspector.
      (1)   There is hereby created the position of Electrical Inspector, said
party(ies) to be appointed by the City Council and shall report to the City
Building Inspector. The position shall be filled by contract unless the City
Council determines otherwise. A person(s) chosen to act as an Electrical
Inspector shall be a competent electrician(s) of good moral character and
certified as an Electrical Inspector for residential and commercial uses by the
State Department of Housing, Building and Construction, Division of Fire
Protection.
      (2)   (a)   He or she shall have substantial bona fide experience in
construction of work and shall have such extensive ability as required for the
faithful performance of his or her duties, and shall have a thorough knowledge
of standard materials and methods used in the installation of electrical wiring
devices, appliances, and equipment. He or she shall be well versed in approved
methods of electrical construction to assure the safety of life and property,
the laws of the commonwealth and the ordinances of the city, relating to
electrical work, the rules and regulations issued under the authority of the
Kentucky Revised Statutes and the National Electrical Code.
         (b)   In the discretion of the City Building Inspector, alternate
persons may be named to conduct electrical inspections, as may be required from
time to time. It shall be unlawful for any Electrical Inspector or any of his
or her authorized assistants, agents, or employees, to engage in the business
of sales, installation, or maintenance of electric wiring devices, appliances,
or equipment, either directly or indirectly, and he or she shall not have any
financial interest in any business or enterprise engaged in such electrical
business in the city at any time while such individual is the Electrical
Inspector for the city.
   (B)   Duties. It shall be the duty of the Electrical Inspector to see that
the provisions of this subchapter are enforced and to enforce within the city
the laws of the commonwealth relating to the installation of electrical wiring,
devices, appliances, and equipment. He or she shall make inspections of all new
electrical installations as set out herein. He or she shall keep records of all
permits issued, inspections, and re-inspections made and other official work
performed in accordance with the provisions of this subchapter and such records
shall be available for review at the request of the City Building Inspector.
(Ord. 4, 2012 Series, passed 4-17-2012) Penalty, see §
31.99
§ 31.62 APPROVAL REQUIRED ON NEW INSTALLATION.
   All electrical wiring, apparatus, and appliances hereafter installed in the
city shall be inspected by the Electrical Inspector; and it shall be unlawful
to use any new electrical installation in any building before the same has been
inspected and approved by the City Electrical Inspector.
(Ord. 4, 2012 Series, passed 4-17-2012) Penalty, see §
31.99
§ 31.63 INSPECTION OF BUILDINGS AND DISCONNECTION OF DEFECTIVE EQUIPMENT.
   (A)   The Electrical Inspector shall have the rights, during reasonable
hours, to enter any building or premises in the discharge of his or her
official duties, or for the purpose of making inspections, re-inspection, or
tests of electrical equipment contained therein or its installation. When any
electrical equipment is found by the Electrical Inspector not to be in
accordance with the standards of the National Electrical Code and/or to be
dangerous to persons or property because of its substandard or defective
installation or maintenance, the person, firm, or corporation responsible for
this electrical equipment shall be notified in writing of said defects and must
enter upon any changes or repairs required in said notice within ten days and
further shall pursue said changes and repairs to diligent completion.
   (B)   If, during his or her inspections, the Electrical Inspector shall find
that electrical wiring, appliances, installations, or equipment do not meet the
standard of the National Electrical Code and the Electrical Inspector has
reasonable cause to believe that such faulty installation or maintenance
creates a condition of immediate peril and/or danger to persons and/or
property, then he or she shall immediately order the disconnection of such
electrical equipment. No such order of disconnection shall be made by the
Electrical Inspector unless he or she shall serve on the owner or operator and
upon the local power company, written notice of his or her findings, and the
violations revealed by his or her inspection requiring the immediate
disconnection. The owner/operator of the property in question shall have the
right to appeal the order of the Electrical Inspector. It shall be unlawful for
any person, firm, or corporation, to reconnect electrical power to electric
wiring, appliances, equipment, or installations while such appliances,
equipment, or installations are under an order of disconnection.
(Ord. 4, 2012 Series, passed 4-17-2012) Penalty, see §
31.99
§ 31.64 NOTICE OF INTENTION TO INSTALL WIRING OR TO MAKE ALTERATIONS;
EXCEPTIONS.
   No electric wiring devices, appliances, or equipment shall be installed
within or on any building structure or premises, nor shall any alterations be
made in existing wiring devices, appliances, or equipment, without notifying
the Electrical Inspector and obtaining a permit therefor, except as herein set
out.
   (A)   No inspection or permit shall be required for minor repair work such
as repairing flush and snap switches, replacing fuses, changing lamp sockets,
receptacles, taping joints, and repairing drop cords or appliances providing
the appliances can be installed without additions to electric wiring.
   (B)   No inspection or permit shall be required for the installation or
wiring, devices, or equipment for telephone, telegraph, or direct messenger
systems, or any signal system (other than radio system) operated at 50 volts or
less.
   (C)   No inspection or permit shall be required for maintenance and repair
work on the premises of a firm or corporation regularly employing one or more
journeyman electricians; however, new installations shall require inspections
and permits.
   (D)   No inspection or permit shall be required for the installation of
electric wiring, devices, or equipment installed for or by a public utility
corporation operating under a franchise from the city to transmit and sell or
use electrical energy provided such wiring devices or equipment are for the use
of said corporation in its operation as a public utility and installed in
accordance with all other provisions of this subchapter. This exception shall
not apply to installation to or in any buildings.
   (E)   No inspection or permit shall be required for the installations of
household appliances that have been approved by the Underwriters Laboratory,
Inc. where the appliance can be plugged into the existing receptacle and
provided the installation of the appliance meets the requirements of the
National Code referred to herein.
(Ord. 4, 2012 Series, passed 4-17-2012)
§ 31.65 PERMITS.
   No permits for the installation or alteration of any electrical wiring
devices, appliances, or equipment shall be issued to any person, firm, or
corporation unless such person, firm, or corporation is the holder of an
electrical contractor license and a master electrician license issued by the
commonwealth, entitling such person, firm, or corporation to secure permits for
and to execute the work described in the application for the permit; except
that upon application and payment of the fees thereunder, permits shall be
issued to unlicensed persons, firms, or corporations for work which this
subchapter specifically permits them to execute without a license. Nothing in
this section is to be so construed as to prevent a property owner from securing
a permit for work to be done by himself or herself on his or her own personally
occupied property; subject, however, to the inspection and approval of the
Electrical Inspector.
(Ord. 4, 2012 Series, passed 4-17-2012)
§ 31.66 SCHEDULE OF ELECTRIC PERMIT AND INSPECTION FEES.
   (A)   Permit fees.
 
Commercial
Additional wiring $50
New construction  $75
Service change    $50
 
 
Residential
Additional wiring             $30
Apartments < 100 amps         $30 per unit
Apartments < 200 amps         $40 per unit
Service change                $30 per unit
Single family/condo/townhouse $40 per unit
 
   (B)   Inspection fees. All inspection fees charged by the Electrical
Inspector(s) shall be regulated and set by the City Building Inspector, subject
to review and modification by the City Council. These fees shall be paid
directly to the Electrical Inspector at the time of inspection and payable by
the user (i.e., homeowner, contractor, and the like).
(Ord. 4, 2012 Series, passed 4-17-2012)
§ 31.67 CERTIFICATION.
   An electrical installation which has been inspected by the Electrical
Inspector as meeting the standards of the National Electrical Code shall be
furnished with an approval sticker bearing the signature of the Electrical
Inspector and his or her certification number to be placed in a conspicuous
place on the main service entrance equipment. The Electrical Inspector shall
also provide a certificate of compliance, if the same is requested. The
Electrical Inspector shall keep a record of each inspection and such records
shall be made available to the Department of Housing, Building and
Construction, Division of Fire Protection, upon its request.
(Ord. 4, 2012 Series, passed 4-17-2012)
§ 31.68 CONFLICT.
   Should any appointed alternate inspector, other than the primary appointed
Electrical Inspector, have a project under construction at the time of this
subchapter taking effect or of his or her respective appointment as an
alternate inspector, he or she shall be permitted to complete the construction
and the inspections for the project shall be performed by another duly
appointed City Electrical Inspector.
(Ord. 4, 2012 Series, passed 4-17-2012)
§ 31.69 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This subchapter shall be in full force and effect from and after its
adoption, readoption, and publication, as required by law.
(Ord. 4, 2012 Series, passed 4-17-2012)
§ 31.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person, firm, corporation, or entity that violates any of the
provisions of §§
31.60 through
31.69 or any other law of the commonwealth shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and
upon conviction thereof shall be punished by a fine and/or imprisonment in
accordance with the provisions of KRS 534.040.
(Ord. 4, 2012 Series, passed 4-17-2012)
CHAPTER 32: CITY COUNCIL
Section
General Provisions
   
32.01   Members; election, qualifications, compensation
   
32.02   Vacancies
   
32.03   Powers and duties
   
32.04   Wards
Rules of Procedure
   
32.15   Mayor as Presiding Officer
   
32.16   Meetings; time and location
   
32.17   Quorum
Ordinances
   
32.30   One subject; title
   
32.31   Introduction; enacting clause
   
32.32   Form of amendment
   
32.33   Reading requirement; exception for emergency
   
32.34   Approval, disapproval by Mayor
   
32.35   Adoption of standard codes by reference
   
32.36   Official city records
   
32.37   Indexing and maintenance requirements
   
32.38   Publication requirements
   
32.39   Additional requirements for adoption may be established by city
   
32.40   Periodic review required
   
32.41   Municipal orders
   
32.42   Proved by Clerk; received in evidence
   
32.43   Legislative immunity
Cross-reference:
   City Officials and Employees, see
Ch. 31
   Mayor-Council Plan, see
Ch. 30
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 32.01 MEMBERS; ELECTION, QUALIFICATIONS, COMPENSATION.
   (A)   Election; term of office. 
      (1)   Each Council member shall be elected at large by the voters of the
city at a regular election.
      (2)   A candidate for Council shall be a resident of the city for not
less than one year prior to his or her election.
      (3)   Terms of office begin on January 1 following the election and shall
be for two years, except as provided by KRS 83A.050.
   (B)   Qualifications. A member shall be at least 21 years of age, shall be a
qualified voter in the city, and shall reside in the city throughout his or her
term of office.
(KRS 83A.040(4))
   (C)   Compensation. For provisions concerning compensation, see §
31.02.
(Prior Code, § 32.01)
§ 32.02 VACANCIES.
   (A)   Vacancies. If one or more vacancies on Council occur in a way that one
or more members remain seated, the remaining members shall within 30 days fill
the vacancies one at a time, giving each new appointee reasonable notice of his
or her selection as will enable him or her to meet and act with the remaining
members in making further appointments until all vacancies are filled. If
vacancies occur in a way that all seats become vacant, the Governor shall
appoint qualified persons to fill the vacancies sufficient to constitute a
quorum. Remaining vacancies are filled as provided in this section.
(KRS 83A.040(5))
      (1)   No vacancy by reason of a voluntary resignation of a member of the
City Council shall occur unless a written resignation which specifies a
resignation date is tendered to the City Council. The resignation may be
submitted through electronic mail if it originates from the Council member’s
electronic mail address and includes also the Council member’s handwritten
signature. The resignation shall be effective at the next regular or special
meeting of the City Council occurring after the date specified in the written
letter of resignation. If a resignation date is not specified, the written
resignation shall be deemed to become effective at the first regular or special
meeting of the City Council occurring on or after its receipt.
(KRS 83A.040(7))
      (2)   Pursuant to KRS 118.305(7), if a vacancy occurs on the City Council
which is required by law to be filled temporarily by appointment, the City
Council shall immediately notify in writing both the County Clerk and the
Secretary of State of the vacancy.
(KRS 83A.040(8))
   (B)   Failure to fill vacancies. If, for any reason, any vacancy on Council
is not filled within 30 days after it occurs, the Governor shall promptly fill
the vacancy by appointment of a qualified person who shall serve for the same
period as if otherwise appointed.
(KRS 83A.040(6))
(Prior Code, § 32.02)
Statutory reference:
   Filling of vacancies for nonpartisan city office, see KRS Ch. 83A.175
§ 32.03 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   The legislative authority of the city is hereby vested in and shall be
exercised by the elected Council of the city. The Council may not perform any
executive functions except those functions assigned to it by statute.
(KRS 83A.130(11))
   (B)   The Council shall establish all appointive offices and the duties and
responsibilities of those offices and codes, rules, and regulations for the
public health, safety, and welfare.
   (C)   The Council shall provide, by ordinance, for sufficient revenue to
operate city government and shall appropriate the funds of the city in a budget
which provides for the orderly management of city resources.
(KRS 83A.130(12))
   (D)   The Council shall have the right to investigate all activities of city
government. The Council may require any city officer or employee to prepare and
submit to it sworn statements regarding the performance of his or her official
duties. Any statement required by the Council to be submitted or any
investigation undertaken by the Council, if any office, department, or agency
under the jurisdiction of the Mayor is involved, shall not be submitted or
undertaken unless and until written notice of the Council’s action is given to
the Mayor. The Mayor may review any statement before submission to the Council
and to appear personally or through his or her designee on behalf of any
department, office, or agency in the course of any investigation.
(KRS 83A.130(13))
(Prior Code, § 32.03)
§ 32.04 WARDS.
   (A)   The previous ordinance of the city readopted October 8, 2001, dividing
the city of Catlettsburg into three wards and providing for partisan elections
for City Council therein is repealed with respect to elections for the City
Council. Henceforth, there will be no wards within the city and the election
for City Council shall be nonpartisan.
   (B)   The legislative body of the city shall continue to be composed of six
members who shall be elected by the city at large. Elections for City Council
shall be nonpartisan, non-primary, and the candidates for City Council who have
received the most votes for any open City Council positions shall be elected to
those positions.
   (C)   This section shall take effect from and after its passage, approval,
and publication as required by law.
(Ord. 01, 2008, passed 1-24-2008)
RULES OF PROCEDURE
§ 32.15 MAYOR AS PRESIDING OFFICER.
   (A)   The Mayor shall preside at meetings of the Council. The Council may
set, by ordinance, the manner in which one of its number may be selected to
preside at meetings of the Council in place of the Mayor.
   (B)   The Mayor may participate in Council proceedings, but shall not have a
vote, except that he or she may cast the deciding vote in case of a tie.
(KRS 83A.130(5)) (Prior Code, § 32.20)
§ 32.16 MEETINGS; TIME AND LOCATION.
   (A)   The regular Council meeting for the city shall be held on the third
Tuesday of each month at the hour of 6:00 p.m. local time at the new
Catlettsburg City Building located at 3015 Louisa Street, Catlettsburg,
Kentucky.
   (B)   Special meetings of the Council may be called by the Mayor or upon
written request of a majority of the Council. In the call, the Mayor or Council
shall designate the purpose, time, and place of the special meeting with
sufficient notice for the attendance of Council members and for compliance with
KRS Ch. 61.
   (C)   At a special meeting, no business may be considered other than that
set forth in the designation of purpose.
   (D)   The minutes of every meeting shall be signed by the person responsible
for maintaining city records as provided by the city and by the officer
presiding at the meeting.
(KRS 83A.130(11)) (Prior Code, § 32.21) (Ord. 09, 2007 Series, passed 10-23-
2007; Ord. 5, 2009 Series, passed 4-21-2009; Ord. 04, 2015 Series, passed 3-17-
2015; Ord. 04, 2016 Series, passed 4-19-2016; Ord. 3, 2023, passed 3-29-2023;
Ord. 6, 2025, passed 6-17-2025)
§ 32.17 QUORUM.
   Unless otherwise provided by statute, a majority of the Council constitutes
a quorum and a vote of a majority of a quorum is sufficient to take action.
(KRS 83A.060(6)) (Prior Code, § 32.22)
ORDINANCES
§ 32.30 ONE SUBJECT; TITLE.
   Each ordinance shall embrace only one subject and shall have a title that
clearly states the subject.
(KRS 83A.060(1)) (Prior Code, § 32.35)
§ 32.31 INTRODUCTION; ENACTING CLAUSE.
   Each ordinance shall be introduced in writing and shall have an enacting
clause, styled: “Be it ordained by the City of Catlettsburg.”
(KRS 83A.060(2)) (Prior Code, § 32.36)
§ 32.32 FORM OF AMENDMENT.
   No ordinance shall be amended by reference to its title only, and ordinances
to amend shall set out in full the amended ordinance or section indicating any
words being added by a single solid line drawn underneath them, and any words
being deleted by a single broken line drawn through them.
(KRS 83A.060(3)) (Prior Code, § 32.37)
§ 32.33 READING REQUIREMENT; EXCEPTION FOR EMERGENCY.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (B) below, no ordinance shall be
enacted until it has been read on two separate days. The reading of an
ordinance may be satisfied by stating the title and reading a summary rather
than the full text.
(KRS 83A.060(4))
   (B)   In an emergency, upon the affirmative vote of two-thirds of the
membership, the Council may suspend the requirements of second reading and
publication in order for an ordinance to become effective by naming and
describing the emergency in the ordinance. Publication requirements of §
32.38 shall be
complied with within ten days of the enactment of the emergency ordinance.
(KRS 83A.060(7))
(Prior Code, § 32.38)
§ 32.34 APPROVAL, DISAPPROVAL BY MAYOR.
   (A)   All ordinances adopted by the Council shall be submitted to the Mayor
who, within ten days after submission, shall either approve the ordinance by
affixing his or her signature or disapprove it by returning it to the Council
together with a statement of his or her objections.
   (B)   No ordinance shall take effect without the Mayor’s approval unless he
or she fails to return it to the Council within ten days after receiving it or
unless the Council votes to override the Mayor’s veto, upon reconsideration of
the ordinance not later than the second regular meeting following its return,
by the affirmative vote of one more than a majority of the membership.
(KRS 83A.130(6)) (Prior Code, § 32.39)
§ 32.35 ADOPTION OF STANDARD CODES BY REFERENCE.
   The Council may adopt the provisions of any local, statewide, or nationally
recognized standard code and codifications of entire bodies of local
legislation by an ordinance that identifies the subject matter by title,
source, and date and incorporates the adopted provisions by reference without
setting them out in full, if a copy accompanies the adopting ordinance and is
made a part of the permanent records of the city.
(KRS 83A.060(5)) (Prior Code, § 32.40)
§ 32.36 OFFICIAL CITY RECORDS.
   (A)   Every action of the Council is hereby made a part of the permanent
records of the city, and on passage of an ordinance the vote of each member of
the Council shall be entered on the official record of the meeting.
   (B)   The Council has provided, under the provisions of §
32.37, for the maintenance and safekeeping of the permanent records of the
city. The City Clerk and the presiding officer shall sign the official record
of each meeting.
(KRS 83A.060(8)) (Prior Code, § 32.41)
§ 32.37 INDEXING AND MAINTENANCE REQUIREMENTS.
   At the end of each month, all ordinances adopted in the city shall be
indexed and maintained by the Clerk/Treasurer in the following manner.
   (A)   The city budget, appropriations of money, and tax levies shall be
maintained and indexed so that each fiscal year is kept separate from other
years.
   (B)   All other city ordinances shall be kept in the minute book or an
ordinance book in the order adopted and maintained in this code of ordinances.
(KRS 83A.060(8)) (Prior Code, § 32.42)
§ 32.38 PUBLICATION REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Except as provided in §
32.33(B), no ordinance shall be enforceable until published pursuant to KRS Ch.
424.
   (B)   Ordinances may be published in full or in summary as designated by the
Council. If the Council elects to publish an ordinance in summary, the summary
shall be prepared or certified by an attorney licensed to practice law in the
commonwealth and shall include the following:
      (1)   The title of the ordinance;
      (2)   A brief narrative setting forth the main points of the ordinance in
a way reasonably calculated to inform the public in a clear and understandable
manner of the meaning of the ordinance; and
      (3)   The full text of each section that imposes taxes or fees.
   (C)   Ordinances that include descriptions of real property may include a
sketch, drawing, or map, including common landmarks such as streets or roads in
lieu of metes and bounds descriptions.
(KRS 83A.060(9)) (Prior Code, § 32.43)
§ 32.39 ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENTS FOR ADOPTION MAY BE ESTABLISHED BY CITY.
   The city may, by ordinance, specify additional requirements for adoption of
ordinances in greater detail than contained herein, but the city may not lessen
or reduce the substantial requirements of this subchapter or any statute
relating to adoption of ordinances.
(KRS 83A.060(10)) (Prior Code, § 32.44)
§ 32.40 PERIODIC REVIEW REQUIRED.
   Not less than once every five years, all ordinances in this code of
ordinances shall be examined for consistency with state law and with one
another and shall be revised to eliminate redundant, obsolete, inconsistent,
and invalid provisions.
(KRS 83A.060(11)) (Prior Code, § 32.45)
§ 32.41 MUNICIPAL ORDERS.
   (A)   Council may adopt municipal orders. All municipal orders shall be in
writing and shall be adopted only at an official meeting. Orders may be amended
only by a subsequent municipal order or ordinance. All orders adopted shall be
maintained in an official order book.
(KRS 83A.060(12))
   (B)   In lieu of an ordinance, municipal orders may be used for matters
relating to the internal operation and functions of the city and to appoint or
remove or approve appointment or removal of members of boards, commissions, and
other agencies over which the Council has control.
(KRS 83A.060(13))
(Prior Code, § 32.46)
§ 32.42 PROVED BY CLERK; RECEIVED IN EVIDENCE.
   All ordinances and orders of the city may be proved by the signature of the
City Clerk; and when the ordinances are placed in this code of ordinances by
authority of the city, the printed copy shall be received in evidence by any
state court without further proof of the ordinances.
(KRS 83A.060(14)) (Prior Code, § 32.47)
§ 32.43 LEGISLATIVE IMMUNITY.
   For anything said in debate, Council members shall be entitled to the same
immunities and protections allowed to members of the General Assembly.
(KRS 83A.060(15)) (Prior Code, § 32.48)
Statutory reference:
   Privileges of members of General Assembly, see KRS 6.050 and Ky. Const. § 43
CHAPTER 33: FINANCE AND REVENUE
Section
Financial Administration
   
33.01   Definitions
   
33.02   Accounting records and financial reports
   
33.03   Annual budget ordinance
   
33.04   Annual audit of city funds
   
33.05   Official depositories; disbursement of city funds
Improvements
   
33.20   Definitions
   
33.21   Financing of improvements
   
33.22   Apportionment of cost
   
33.23   Comprehensive report required
   
33.24   Public hearing required
   
33.25   Adoption of ordinance; notice to affected owners
   
33.26   Affected owner may contest
   
33.27   When city may proceed; assessment constitutes lien
   
33.28   Effect of additional property or change in financing
Investment Policy
   
33.40   Generally
   
33.41   Securities of obligations
   
33.42   Collateralization
   
33.43   Reporting discrepancies
   
33.44   Approving deviations
   
33.45   Investments reporting
   
33.46   Effective date
 
   
33.99   Penalty
FINANCIAL ADMINISTRATION
§ 33.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUDGET. A proposed plan for raising and spending money for specified
programs, functions, activities, or objectives during a fiscal year.
   DEBT SERVICE. The sum of money required to pay installments of principal and
interest on bonds, notes, and other evidences of debt accruing within a fiscal
year, and to maintain sinking funds.
   ENCUMBRANCES. Obligations in the form of purchase orders or contracts that
are chargeable to an appropriation. An obligation ceases to be an ENCUMBRANCE
when paid or when the actual liability is recorded.
   FISCAL YEAR. The accounting period for the administration of fiscal
operations.
   GENERALLY ACCEPTED GOVERNMENTAL AUDITING STANDARDS. Those standards for
audit of governmental organizations, programs, activities, and functions issued
by the Comptroller General of the United States.
   GENERALLY ACCEPTED PRINCIPLES OF GOVERNMENTAL ACCOUNTING. Those standards
and procedures promulgated and recognized by the Governmental Accounting
Standards Board.
(KRS 91A.010) (Prior Code, § 33.01)
§ 33.02 ACCOUNTING RECORDS AND FINANCIAL REPORTS.
   (A)   The city shall keep its accounting records and render financial
reports in such a way as to:
      (1)   Determine compliance with statutory provisions; and
      (2)   Determine fairly and with full disclosure the financial operations
of constituent funds and account groups of the city in conformity with
generally accepted governmental accounting principles.
   (B)   The municipal accounting system shall be organized and operated on a
fund basis.
(KRS 91A.020) (Prior Code, § 33.02)
§ 33.03 ANNUAL BUDGET ORDINANCE.
   (A)   The city shall operate under an annual budget ordinance adopted and
administered in accordance with the provisions of this section. No monies shall
be expended from any governmental or proprietary fund except in accordance with
a budget ordinance adopted pursuant to this section.
   (B)   Monies held by the city as a trustee or agent for individuals, private
organizations, or other governmental units need not be included in the budget
ordinance.
   (C)   If, in any fiscal year subsequent to a fiscal year in which the city
has adopted a budget ordinance in accordance with this section, no budget
ordinance is adopted, the budget ordinance of the previous fiscal year has full
force and effect as if readopted.
   (D)   The budget ordinance of the city shall cover one fiscal year.
   (E)   Preparation of the budget proposal shall be the responsibility of the
Mayor.
   (F)   The budget proposal shall be prepared in the form and detail as
prescribed by ordinance.
   (G)   The budget proposal together with a budget message shall be submitted
to Council not later than 30 days prior to the beginning of the fiscal year it
covers. The budget message shall contain an explanation of the governmental
goals fixed by the budget for the coming fiscal year; explain important
features of the activities anticipated in the budget; set forth the reasons for
stated changes from the previous year in program goals, programs, and
appropriation levels; and explain any major changes in fiscal policy.
   (H)   (1)   Council shall adopt a budget ordinance making appropriations for
the fiscal year in such sums as it finds sufficient and proper, whether greater
or less than the sums recommended in the budget proposal. The budget ordinance
may take any form that Council finds most efficient in enabling it to make the
necessary fiscal policy decisions.
      (2)   No budget ordinance shall be adopted which provides for
appropriations to exceed revenues in any one fiscal year in violation of § 157
of the Constitution of the commonwealth.
   (I)   The full amount estimated to be required for debt service during the
budget year shall be appropriated, for all governmental fund types.
   (J)   Council may amend the budget ordinance at any time after the
ordinance’s adoption, so long as the amended ordinance continues to satisfy the
requirements of this section.
   (K)   Administration and implementation of an adopted budget ordinance shall
be the responsibility of the Mayor. That responsibility includes the
preparation and submission to Council of operating statements, including
budgetary comparisons of each governmental fund for which an annual budget has
been adopted. The reports shall be submitted not less than once every three
months in each fiscal year.
   (L)   To the extent practical, the system utilized in the administration and
implementation of the adopted budget ordinance shall be consistent in form with
the accounting system called for in §
33.02.
   (M)   No city agency, or member, director, officer, or employee of any city
agency, may bind the city in any way to any extent beyond the amount of money
at that time appropriated for the purpose of the agency. All contracts,
agreements, and obligations, express or implied, beyond the existing
appropriations are void; nor shall any city officer issue any bond,
certificate, or warrant for the payment of money by the city in any way to any
extent, beyond the unexpended balance of any appropriation made for the
purpose.
(KRS 91A.030) (Prior Code, § 33.03)
§ 33.04 ANNUAL AUDIT OF CITY FUNDS.
   (A)   Except as provided in divisions (B) and (C) of this section, each city
shall, after the close of each fiscal year, cause each fund of the city to be
audited by the Auditor of Public Accounts or a certified public accountant. The
audit shall be completed by March 1 immediately following the fiscal year being
audited. The city shall forward an electronic copy of the audit report to the
Department for Local Government for information purposes by no later than April
1 immediately following the fiscal year being audited.
   (B)   In lieu of the annual audit requirements in division (A) of this
section, a city with a population equal to or less than 3,000 based upon the
most recent federal decennial census may elect to have an audit performed every
other fiscal year in the following manner:
      (1)   After the close of each odd-numbered fiscal year, the city shall
for that oddnumbered year cause each fund of the city to be audited by the
Auditor of Public Accounts or a certified public accountant. The audits shall
be completed by March 1 immediately following the fiscal year to be audited.
The city shall forward an electronic copy of the audit report to the Department
for Local Government for information purposes by no later than April 1
immediately following the fiscal year being audited; and
      (2)   After the close of each even-numbered fiscal year, the city shall
not be required to complete an annual audit but shall forward an electronic
copy of its financial statement prepared in accordance with KRS 424.220 to the
Department for Local Government by no later than October 1 immediately
following the close of the even-numbered fiscal year.
   (C)   Any city, which for any fiscal year receives and expends, from all
sources and for all purposes, less than $500,000, and which has no long-term
debt, whether general obligation or revenue debt, shall not be required to
audit each fund of the city for that particular fiscal year. In addition, each
city exempted in accordance with this division shall:
      (1)   Annually prepare a financial statement in accordance with KRS
424.220 and shall, not later than October 1 following the conclusion of the
fiscal year, forward one electronic copy to the Department for Local Government
for information purposes; and
      (2)   If exempted under this division for more than four consecutive
fiscal years after July 1, 2022, have prepared an attestation engagement
covering the fourth fiscal year in which the city qualified for an exemption
under this division. An attestation engagement completed pursuant to this
division shall be:
         (a)   Prepared by an independent certified public accountant or by the
Auditor of Public Accounts pursuant to a contract with the city using generally
accepted attestation standards as promulgated by the American Institute of
Certified Public Accountants and any additional procedures established by the
Department for Local Government through administrative regulation;
         (b)   Completed by no later than March 1 immediately following the
conclusion of the fiscal year in which in the attestation engagement is
required;
         (c)   Submitted to the Department for Local Government as one
electronic copy no later than April 1 after its completion;
         (d)   Advertised to the public within 30 days of its completion by
causing the publication of a legal display advertisement of not less than six
column inches in a newspaper qualified under KRS 424.120 stating that the
attestation has been prepared and copies have been provided to each local
newspaper of general circulation, each news service, and each local radio and
television station which has on file with the city a written request to receive
copies of financial statements under KRS 424.220. Any city advertising under
this division shall be exempt from publishing its financial statement under KRS
424.220(6)(b) for any year in which it is required to have an attestation
engagement completed; and
         (e)   Provided to the Auditor of Public Accounts upon request for
review of the final report and all related work papers and documents regarding
the attestation engagement.
   (D)   If a city is required by another provision of law to audit its funds
more frequently or more stringently than is required by this section, the city
shall also comply with the provisions of that law.
   (E)   The Department for Local Government shall, upon request, make
available electronic copies of the audit reports and financial statements
received by it under divisions (A) to (C) of this section to the Legislative
Research Commission to be used for the purposes of KRS 6.955 to 6.975 or to the
Auditor of Public Accounts.
   (F)   Each city required by this section to conduct an annual or biennial
audit shall enter into a written contract with an auditor, who shall be a
certified public accountant or the Auditor of Public Accounts. The contract
shall set forth all terms and conditions of the agreement which shall include
but not be limited to requirements that:
      (1)   The Auditor be employed to examine the basic financial statements,
which shall include the government-wide and fund financial statements;
      (2)   The Auditor shall include in the annual or biennial city audit
report an examination of local government economic assistance funds granted to
the city under KRS 42.450 to 42.495. The Auditor shall include a certification
with the annual or biennial audit report that the funds were expended for the
purpose intended;
      (3)   All audit information be prepared in accordance with generally
accepted governmental auditing standards which include tests of the accounting
records and auditing procedures considered necessary in the circumstances.
Where the audit is to cover the use of state or federal funds, appropriate
state or federal guidelines shall be utilized;
      (4)   The Auditor shall prepare a typewritten or printed report
embodying:
         (a)   The basic financial statements and accompanying supplemental and
required supplemental information;
         (b)   The Auditor's opinion on the basic financial statements or
reasons why an opinion cannot be expressed; and
         (c)   Findings required to be reported as a result of the audit;
      (5)   The completed audit and all accompanying documentation shall be
presented to the city legislative body at a regular or special meeting; and
      (6)   Any contract with a certified public accountant for an audit shall
require the accountant to forward a copy of the audit report and management
letters to the Auditor of Public Accounts upon request of the city or the
Auditor of Public Accounts, and the Auditor of Public Accounts shall have the
right to review the certified public accountant's work papers upon request.
   (G)   A copy of an audit report which meets the requirements of this section
shall be considered satisfactory and final in meeting any official request to a
city for financial data, except for statutory or judicial requirements, or
requirements of the Legislative Research Commission necessary to carry out the
purposes of KRS 6.955 to 6.975.
   (H)   Each city shall, within 30 days after the presentation of an audit to
the city legislative body, publish an advertisement in accordance with KRS Ch.
424 containing:
      (1)   The Auditor's opinion letter;
      (2)   The "Budgetary Comparison Schedules-Major Funds," which shall
include the general fund and all major funds;
      (3)   A statement that a copy of the complete audit report, including
financial statements and supplemental information, is on file at city hall and
is available for public inspection during normal business hours;
      (4)   A statement that any citizen may obtain from city hall a copy of
the complete audit report, including financial statements and supplemental
information, for his or her personal use;
      (5)   A statement which notifies citizens requesting a personal copy of
the city audit report that they will be charged for duplication costs at a rate
that shall not exceed $0.25 per page; and
      (6)   A statement that copies of the financial statement prepared in
accordance with KRS 424.220, when a financial statement is required by KRS
424.220, are available to the public at no cost at the business address of the
officer responsible for preparation of the statement.
   (I)   Any resident of the city or owner of real property within the city may
bring an action in the Circuit Court to enforce the provisions of this section.
Any person who violates any provision of this section shall be fined not less
than $50 nor more than $500. In addition, any officer who fails to comply with
any of the provisions of this section shall, for each failure, be subject to a
forfeiture of not less than $50 nor more than $500, in the discretion of the
court, which may be recovered only once in a civil action brought by any
resident of the city or owner of real property within the city. The costs of
all proceedings, including a reasonable fee for the attorney of the resident or
property owner bringing the action, shall be assessed against the unsuccessful
party.
   (J)   In the event of extenuating circumstances that prevent a city from
completing and submitting a required audit or financial statement in compliance
with the applicable deadlines in divisions (A) to (C) of this section, the city
may submit a written request for an extension of time to the Department for
Local Government on a form prescribed by the Department for Local Government.
The Department for Local Government shall approve the request if, in the
judgment of the Department for Local Government, the request is warranted by
extenuating circumstances beyond the control of the city or other factors that
justify the city's noncompliance with the required deadlines. The Department
for Local Government may consider any evidence it deems appropriate, including
but not limited to proof of the city's progress towards compliance. Extensions
granted under this division shall not exceed 18 months from the original due
date of the audit or financial statement. If the Department for Local
Government approves an extension for a city and the city fails to complete and
submit the required audit or financial statement in compliance with that
extended deadline, then the provisions of division (K) of this section shall
apply.
   (K)   If a city fails to complete an audit or financial statement and submit
it to the Department for Local Government as required in divisions (A) to (C)
and (J) of this section, the Department for Local Government shall notify the
Finance and Administration Cabinet that the city has failed to comply with the
audit requirements of this section, and that any funds in the possession of any
agency, entity, or branch of state government shall be withheld from the city
until further notice. The Department for Local Government shall immediately
notify the Finance and Administration Cabinet when the city complies with the
requirements of divisions (A) to (C) and (J) of this section for all prior
fiscal years it has failed to comply with the audit requirements of this
section, and the Finance and Administration Cabinet shall direct the
reinstatement of payments to the city, including any funds that were withheld
due to the noncompliance. This division shall not be interpreted or construed
to permit the state to withhold any nondiscretionary payments to a city that
are due the city for the provision of services by the city to the state or any
of its agencies, including for the use of city utilities.
   (L)   Within a reasonable time after the completion of a special audit or
examination conducted pursuant to KRS 43.050, the Auditor shall bill the city
for the actual expense of the audit or examination conducted. The actual
expense shall include the hours of work performed on the audit or examination
as well as reasonable associated costs, including but not limited to travel
costs. The bill submitted to the city shall include a statement of the hourly
rate, total hours, and total costs for the entire audit or examination.
(KRS 91A.040) (Prior Code, § 33.04) Penalty, see §
33.99
Statutory reference:
   Department for Local Government to provide assistance, see KRS 91A.050
§ 33.05 OFFICIAL DEPOSITORIES; DISBURSEMENT OF CITY FUNDS.
   (A)   The Mayor shall designate as the city’s official depositories one or
more banks, federally insured savings and loan companies, or trust companies
within the commonwealth. The amount of funds on deposit in an official
depository shall be fully insured by deposit insurance or collateralized in
accordance with 12 U.S.C. § 1823, to the extent uninsured, by any obligations,
including surety bonds permitted by KRS 41.240(4).
   (B)   All receipts from any source of city money or money for which the city
is responsible, which has not been otherwise invested or deposited in a manner
authorized by law, shall be deposited in official depositories. All city funds
shall be disbursed by written authorization approved by the Mayor which states
the name of the person to whom funds are payable, the purpose of the payment,
and the fund out of which the funds are payable. Each authorization shall be
numbered and recorded.
(KRS 91A.060) (Prior Code, § 33.05)
IMPROVEMENTS
§ 33.20 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ASSESSED VALUE BASIS. The apportionment of cost of an improvement according
to the ratio the assessed value of individual parcels of property bears to the
total assessed value of all the properties.
   BENEFITS RECEIVED BASIS. The apportionment of cost of an improvement
according to equitable determination by Council of the special benefit received
by property from the improvement, including assessed value basis, front foot
basis, and square foot basis, or any combination thereof, and may include
consideration of assessed value of land only, graduation for different classes
of property based on nature and extent of special benefits received, and other
factors affecting benefits received.
   COST. All costs related to an improvement, including planning, design,
property or easement acquisition, and construction costs, fiscal and legal
fees, financing costs, and publication expenses.
   FAIR BASIS. Assessed value basis, front foot basis, square foot basis, or
benefits received basis.
   FRONT FOOT BASIS. The apportionment of cost of an improvement according to
the ratio the front footage on the improvement of individual parcels of
property bears to the front footage of all the properties.
   IMPROVEMENT. Construction of any facility for public use or services or any
addition thereto, which is of special benefit to specific properties in the
area served by the facility.
   PROPERTY. Any real property benefitted by an improvement.
   SPECIAL ASSESSMENT or ASSESSMENT. A special charge fixed on property to
finance an improvement in whole or in part.
   SQUARE FOOT BASIS. The apportionment of cost of an improvement according to
the ratio the square footage of individual parcels of property bears to the
square footage of all the property.
(KRS 91A.210) (Prior Code, § 33.10)
§ 33.21 FINANCING OF IMPROVEMENTS.
   (A)   The city may not finance any improvement in whole or in part through
special assessments except as provided in this subchapter and in any applicable
statutes.
(KRS 91A.200)
   (B)   Cost of an improvement shall be apportioned equitably on a fair basis.
   (C)   The city may provide for lump sum or installment payment of
assessments or for bond or other long-term financing, and for any improvement
that may afford property owners the option as to method of payment or
financing.
(KRS 91A.220)
(Prior Code, § 33.11)
Statutory reference:
   Improvements; alternate methods, see KRS Ch. 107
§ 33.22 APPORTIONMENT OF COST.
   The cost of any improvement shall be apportioned on a benefits received
basis with respect to any property owned by the state, a local unit of
government, or any educational, religious, or charitable organization. Council
may assess the property in the same manner as for privately owned property or
it may pay the costs so apportioned out of general revenues.
(KRS 91A.230) (Prior Code, § 33.12)
§ 33.23 COMPREHENSIVE REPORT REQUIRED.
   Before undertaking any improvements pursuant to this subchapter, the city
shall prepare a comprehensive report setting out:
   (A)   The nature of the improvement;
   (B)   The scope and the extent of the improvement, including the boundaries
or other description of the area to be assessed;
   (C)   The preliminary estimated cost of the improvement;
   (D)   The fair basis of assessment proposed;
   (E)   If financing of assessments is provided, the proposed method,
including the proposed years to maturity of any bonds to be issued in
connection with the improvement; and
   (F)   Other information as may further explain material aspects of the
improvement, assessments, or financing.
(KRS 91A.240) (Prior Code, § 33.13)
§ 33.24 PUBLIC HEARING REQUIRED.
   (A)   After preparation of the report required by §
33.23, the city shall hold at least one public hearing on the proposed
improvement at which all interested persons shall be heard.
   (B)   Notice of the hearing shall be published pursuant to KRS Ch. 424, and
mailed to each affected property owner by certified mail, return receipt
requested, and shall include:
      (1)   The nature of the improvement;
      (2)   Description of area of the improvement;
      (3)   Statement that the city proposes to finance the improvement in
whole or in part by special assessment of property and the method to be used;
      (4)   Time and place the report may be examined; and
      (5)   Time and place of the hearing.
(KRS 91A.250) (Prior Code, § 33.14)
§ 33.25 ADOPTION OF ORDINANCE; NOTICE TO AFFECTED OWNERS.
   (A)   Within 90 days of conclusion of the hearing, the city shall determine
whether to proceed with the improvement by special assessments and, if it
determines to proceed, shall adopt an ordinance so stating and containing all
necessary terms, including the items referred to in §
33.23 and a description of all properties.
   (B)   Promptly upon passage the city shall publish the ordinance pursuant to
KRS Ch. 424 and shall mail by certified mail to each affected property owner a
notice of determination to proceed with the
project, the fair basis of assessment to be utilized, the estimated cost to the
property owner, and the ratio the cost to each property owner bears to the
total cost of the entire project.
(KRS 91A.260) (Prior Code, § 33.15)
§ 33.26 AFFECTED OWNER MAY CONTEST.
   (A)   Within 30 days of the mailing of the notice provided for in §
33.25, any affected property owner may file an action in the Circuit Court of
the county, contesting the undertaking of the project by special assessment,
the inclusion of his or her property in the improvement, or the amount of his
or her assessment. If the action contests the undertaking of the improvement by
the special assessment method of the inclusion of the property of that property
owner, no further action on the improvement insofar as it relates to any
property owner who is a plaintiff shall be taken until the final judgment has
been entered.
   (B)   The city may proceed with the improvement with respect to any
properties whose owners have not filed or joined in an action as provided in
this section or who have contested only the amounts of their assessments, and
the provisions of the resolution shall be final and binding with respect to the
property owners except as to contested amounts of assessments. After the lapse
of time as herein provided, all actions by owners of properties are forever
barred.
(KRS 91A.270) (Prior Code, § 33.16)
§ 33.27 WHEN CITY MAY PROCEED; ASSESSMENT CONSTITUTES LIEN.
   (A)   After the passage of time for the action provided for in §
33.26, or after favorable final judgment in the action, whichever comes later,
the city may proceed with the improvement or part thereof stayed by the action,
including notice requiring payment of special assessment or installment thereon
and bonds or other method proposed to finance the improvement. The first
installment may be apportioned so that other payments will coincide with
payment of ad valorem taxes.
   (B)   The amount of any outstanding assessment or installments thereof on
any property, and accrued interest and other charges, constitutes a lien on the
property to secure payment to the bondholders or any other source of financing
of the improvement. The lien takes precedence over all other liens, whether
created prior to or subsequent to the publication of the ordinance, except a
lien for state and county taxes, general municipal taxes, and prior improvement
taxes, and is not defeated or postponed by any private or judicial sale, by any
mortgage, or by any error or mistake in the description of the property or in
the names of the owners. No error in the proceedings of the Council shall
exempt any benefitted property from the lien for the improvement assessment,
from payment thereof, or from the penalties or interest thereon, as herein
provided.
(KRS 91A.280) (Prior Code, § 33.17)
§ 33.28 EFFECT OF ADDITIONAL PROPERTY OR CHANGE IN FINANCING.
   The city may undertake any further proceedings to carry out the improvement
or any extension or refinancing thereof, except that §§
33.23 through
33.27 apply if additional property is included in the improvement or if change
is made in the method or period of financing; but additional property may be
included in the improvement with the consent of the owner thereof without
compliance with other sections if it does not increase the cost apportioned to
any other property, or any other change may be made without this compliance, if
all property owners of the improvement consent.
(KRS 91A.290) (Prior Code, § 33.18)
INVESTMENT POLICY
§ 33.40 GENERALLY.
   Investments shall be limited to a maturity date of one year or less from the
General Fund. Investments for other funds may be invested for up to five years,
assuming the funds are not expected to be needed.
(Ord. 08-2003 Series, passed 12-23-2003)
§ 33.41 SECURITIES OF OBLIGATIONS.
   Investments may be made by buying securities of obligations of the U.S.
Government. This would include treasury bills and treasury notes.
(Ord. 08-2003 Series, passed 12-23-2003)
§ 33.42 COLLATERALIZATION.
   Investments may be made by buying certificates of deposit of a financial
institution which is covered by FDIC up to the limit of $100,000. Any
investments in a financial institution which exceed $100,000 must be
collateralized with U.S. Government or Agency Securities held by the
Institution, in the city’s name.
(Ord. 08-2003 Series, passed 12-23-2003)
§ 33.43 REPORTING DISCREPANCIES.
   Any discrepancy must be immediately reported by the Clerk/Treasurer to the
Mayor.
(Ord. 08-2003 Series, passed 12-23-2003)
§ 33.44 APPROVING DEVIATIONS.
   Any deviation must be approved by the City Council, in advance.
(Ord. 08-2003 Series, passed 12-23-2003)
§ 33.45 INVESTMENTS REPORTING.
   The Clerk/Treasurer will report investments monthly to the Mayor and City
Council.
(Ord. 08-2003 Series, passed 12-23-2003)
§ 33.46 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This subchapter shall take effect from and after its passage, approval, and
publication as required by law.
(Ord. 08-2003 Series, passed 12-23-2003)
§ 33.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person who violates any provision of §
33.04 shall be fined not less than $50 nor more than $500. In addition, any
officer who fails to comply with any of the provisions of §
33.04 shall, for each failure, be subject to a forfeiture of not less than $50
nor more than $500, in the discretion of the Court,
which may be recovered only once, in a civil action brought by any resident of
the city. The costs of all proceedings, including a reasonable fee for the
attorney of the resident bringing the action, shall be assessed against the
unsuccessful party.
CHAPTER 34: TAXATION
Section
   
34.01   County assessed valuation for property
   
34.02   Collection of taxes
   
34.03   City Treasurer as Tax Collector
   
34.04   Collection of delinquent taxes
   
34.05   Abandoned or blighted urban property
§ 34.01 COUNTY ASSESSED VALUATION FOR PROPERTY.
   (A)   The city hereby adopts the annual county assessed valuation of
property for all properties located within the taxing district of the city.
   (B)   The valuation as shown upon the tax records of the County Property
Valuation Administrator shall be used by the city for the levying of taxes for
all properties within the taxing district of the city.
(Prior Code, § 34.01) (Ord. passed 7-22-1966)
Statutory reference:
   Use by city of county assessment, see KRS 132.285
§ 34.02 COLLECTION OF TAXES.
   (A)   As soon as practicable after the City Clerk has received a copy of the
certified county assessment, the Clerk shall, from the assessment lists, make
out the tax bills for ad valorem taxes for the year in a stub-book to be
devised by the City Council for that purpose, and shall sign the bills and turn
them over to the City Treasurer, and take his or her receipt therefor, showing
the number of bills so turned over and the aggregate amount thereof. The tax
bills shall be endorsed by the Treasurer. Within ten days after receipt of the
tax bills, and before July 1, and ten days before September 1, the Treasurer
shall give notice by publication pursuant to KRS Ch. 424 that the taxes for the
current year are in his or her hands for collection and are due, and that in
default of payment on or before the date fixed under §
34.03, the penalty prescribed by ordinance will be attached.
(KRS 92.580)
   (B)   All ad valorem taxes shall be due and payable in two installments,
one-half on July 1 next after the assessment date, and one-half on December l,
in which case, if the first installment is not paid on or before August 1, both
installments shall be deemed to have become due and payable on July 1.
   (C)   Any taxpayer may pay at any time, and the City Treasurer shall
receive, any amount in even dollars as part payment or advance payment of
taxes; a discount of 6% per annum, from the date of payment until the date when
the taxes would have become due and payable, shall be allowed on all taxes paid
in advance.
   (D)   All taxes remaining unpaid on the first day of the month following
that in which they became due and payable shall be deemed delinquent, and shall
bear interest at the rate of 6% per annum from the due date until paid; a
penalty of 6% on the taxes so delinquent shall be paid, except when all
installments are paid in full on or before February 1.
(KRS 92.590(1),(4)) (Prior Code, § 34.02) (Ord. 2-1954, passed 3-15-1954; Ord.
8-1998 Series, passed 12-29-1998)
§ 34.03 CITY TREASURER AS TAX COLLECTOR.
   The City Treasurer shall collect the taxes provided for by ordinance and
shall perform all tasks not specifically designated by ordinance as the
responsibility of another to accomplish such collection of taxes.
(Prior Code, § 34.03) (Ord. 12-1988, passed 6-7-1988)
§ 34.04 COLLECTION OF DELINQUENT TAXES.
   Taxes which become delinquent shall be reported to the City Council within
30 days of becoming delinquent. After consideration by the Council, delinquent
taxes may be referred for collection by the City Attorney. Other means may also
be considered prior to such referral. The person or entity designated to
collect delinquent taxes shall be entitled to compensation in the amount of 10%
of the delinquent taxes collected after referral.
(Prior Code, § 34.04) (Ord. 12-1988, passed 6-7-1988)
§ 34.05 ABANDONED OR BLIGHTED URBAN PROPERTY.
   (A)   Abandoned or blighted urban property classified as real property.
      (1)   Abandoned or blighted urban property is established as a separate
classification of real property for the purpose of establishing the ad valorem
tax rate pursuant to the provisions of KRS 92.305.
      (2)   As used in this subchapter, ABANDONED OR BLIGHTED URBAN PROPERTY
means any structure or vacant unimproved lot or parcel of ground in the city
which has been vacant, neglected or unimproved for a period of at least one
year or which has been cited for three or more violations of the city property
maintenance code and which:
         (a)   Because it is dilapidated, unsanitary, unsafe, vermin infested,
or otherwise dangerous to the safety of persons, it is unfit for its intended
use;
         (b)   By reason of neglect or lack of maintenance has become a place
for the accumulation of trash and debris, or has become infested with rodents
or other vermin; or
         (c)   Has been tax delinquent for a period of at least three years.
   (B)   Rate of taxation for abandoned or blighted urban properties. Pursuant
to the provisions of KRS 132.012 the rate of taxation levied upon abandoned or
blighted properties shall be four times the annually adopted ad valorem tax
rate.
   (C)   Classification of property as abandoned or blighted urban property;
right to appeal.
      (1)   The City Council adopts the provisions of KRS 99.710 to 99.730, and
acting as the vacant properties review commission pursuant to the provisions of
KRS 99.710, shall each year determine which properties in the city are
abandoned or blighted urban properties and shall prepare and furnish a list of
abandoned or blighted properties located in the city to the City Treasurer and
to the Boyd County Property Valuation Administrator prior to January 1 of each
year.
      (2)   Except as otherwise provided in division (C) of this section a
property classified by the City Council as abandoned or blighted urban property
as of January 1 shall be taxed as abandoned or blighted urban property for such
tax year. If the owner repairs, rehabilitates, or otherwise returns the
property to productive use so that the property is no longer abandoned or
blighted urban property, he or she shall notify the city, which shall, if it
finds the property no longer abandoned or blighted urban property, notify the
City Treasurer and the Boyd County Property Valuation Administrator to strike
the property from the list of abandoned our blighted urban properties as of the
succeeding January 1.
      (3)   No later than March 1 of each year, the City Council shall mail, by
first class mail, to the owner(s) of each abandoned or blighted urban property,
as those name(s) are listed in the records of the Property Valuation
Administrator, a notice this property has been classified as abandoned or
blighted urban property. The owner of any abandoned or blighted urban property
who believes his, her or its property has been incorrectly classified may
appeal such classification to the City Council. Such appeal shall be in writing
and shall be made no later than April 1 of that year. The City Council shall
afford the owner the opportunity for a hearing. If the City Council finds the
property was incorrectly classified as abandoned or blighted urban property, it
shall cause the property to be removed from the list of properties so
classified. The City Council shall develop policies and procedures for
conducting such appeals.
(Ord. 1, 2025, passed 3-18-2025)
CHAPTER 35: CITY ORGANIZATIONS
Section
Civil Service Commission
   
35.001   Establishment
Flood Control Commission
   
35.015   Establishment; duties
   
35.016   Membership
   
35.017   Bank account
Housing Authority
   
35.030   Appointment of members
   
35.031   Qualifications and terms
   
35.032   Corporate powers; officers
   
35.033   Compensation
   
35.034   Employees
   
35.035   Interest in projects prohibited
   
35.036   Powers and duties
Parks and Recreation Commission
   
35.050   Establishment of Park Board
   
35.051   Term of office; compensation
   
35.052   Oath
   
35.053   Legal authority of Board
   
35.054   Officers
   
35.055   Powers and duties
   
35.056   Reports and records
   
35.057   Tax levy; disbursements
   
35.058   Park Street Rehabilitation Board
Planning Commission
   
35.070   Establishment
   
35.071   Membership
   
35.072   Appointing authority
   
35.073   Term of office
   
35.074   Vacancies
   
35.075   Oath of office
   
35.076   Reimbursement or compensation
   
35.077   Removal
   
35.078   Officers
   
35.079   Meetings
   
35.080   Minutes and bylaws
   
35.081   Quorum; member may conduct hearings or preside
   
35.082   Employing planners or other persons
   
35.083   Finances
   
35.084   Assigning other functions to Commission
   
35.085   Powers and duties
Zoning Board of Adjustment
   
35.100   Establishment
Civic Center Commission
   
35.115   Creation and responsibilities of Commission; members
   
35.116   Authorization of lease
   
35.117   Supervision of lessee
   
35.118   Insurance and indemnification
   
35.119   Rules and regulations
   
35.120   Record review and audits
   
35.121   Quarterly reports
Cross-reference:
   Board of Zoning Adjustment, see §§
154.137
   City Council, see
Ch. 32
   Police Department; Fire Department, see
Ch. 36
CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION
§ 35.001 ESTABLISHMENT.
   For provisions concerning the Civil Service Commission, see §
37.003.
(Prior Code, § 35.01)
FLOOD CONTROL COMMISSION
§ 35.015 ESTABLISHMENT; DUTIES.
   (A)   There is created and established a Flood Control Commission.
   (B)   The Commission shall control and supervise the maintenance and
operation of the flood control system of the city; shall possess and exercise
the rights, powers, duties, and obligations prescribed by law relating to such
commissions; and shall make such rules and regulations concerning same as it
shall deem necessary and proper.
   (C)   The Commission shall, during the months of January and July of each
year, submit a report in writing to the Mayor and City Council concerning its
operations and activities for the next six months period.
(Prior Code, § 35.10) (Ord. 11-1986, passed 6-3-1986)
§ 35.016 MEMBERSHIP.
   (A)   (1)   The Flood Control Commission shall consist of six members to be
appointed by the Mayor.
      (2)   All members shall serve for four years, but the original Commission
shall serve only until December 31, 1989.
   (B)   The Mayor shall always be a member of the Commission, with full power
of membership therein.
   (C)   The appointed members of the Commission shall serve without
compensation and the Mayor shall receive no additional compensation for his or
her service as a member of the Commission.
(Prior Code, § 35.11) (Ord. 11-1986, passed 6-3-1986)
§ 35.017 BANK ACCOUNT.
   The Flood Control Commission is authorized to have a bank account, with
checks being drawn on the account to be signed by the Treasurer and
countersigned by the Mayor.
(Prior Code, § 35.12) (Ord. 11-1986, passed 6-3-1989)
HOUSING AUTHORITY
§ 35.030 APPOINTMENT OF MEMBERS.
   The City Housing Authority shall consist of the Mayor, ex officio, and four
persons appointed by him or her with the approval of the City Council.
(KRS 80.030) (Prior Code, § 35.20)
§ 35.031 QUALIFICATIONS AND TERMS.
   (A)   Each person appointed to the Housing Authority shall be at least 25
years of age and a bona fide resident of the city for at least one year
preceding the appointment. No officer or employee of the city, whether holding
a paid or unpaid office, is eligible to hold an appointment on the Housing
Authority.
   (B)   No more than two appointees on the Housing Authority shall be
affiliated with the same political party.
   (C)   Appointees to the Housing Authority shall be originally appointed for
terms of four years. Upon the expiration of the term of the first appointees,
their successors shall be appointed for terms of one, two, three, and four
years, respectively, and upon the expiration of the term of each of the second
group of appointees, his or her successor shall be appointed for a term of four
years.
   (D)   Vacancies shall be filled for unexpired terms in the same manner as
the original appointment.
(KRS 80.040) (Prior Code, § 35.21)
§ 35.032 CORPORATE POWERS; OFFICERS.
   The persons appointed as provided in §§
35.030 and
35.031 shall constitute a body corporate in the name of “Housing Authority of
Catlettsburg,” with power to contract and be contracted with, sue or be sued,
and to adopt a seal and alter it at will. The Authority may establish bylaws,
rules, and regulations for its own government. The Authority shall elect a
Chairperson and a Vice-Chairperson from its
members and a Secretary and Treasurer who need not be a member of the
Authority. The duties of the offices of Secretary and Clerk/Treasurer may be
performed by the same person.
(KRS 80.050) (Prior Code, § 35.22)
§ 35.033 COMPENSATION.
   Each member of the Housing Authority, except an ex officio member, may
receive compensation either as a salary or as payment for meetings attended.
The compensation of members shall be fixed by the City Council. The Housing
Authority shall fix the compensation of the Secretary and Clerk/Treasurer, but
the City Council may fix or limit the salary.
(KRS 80.060) (Prior Code, § 35.23)
§ 35.034 EMPLOYEES.
   (A)   The Housing Authority may employ technical experts and attorneys, and
any other employees that it deems necessary. The Authority shall fix the
compensation of its employees. The City Council may prescribe limitations to
the compensation of employees of the Authority and may prescribe whether or not
an employee shall devote his or her entire time to his or her duties as an
employee of the Authority.
   (B)   In fixing the compensation of its employees, the Authority may, but is
not required to utilize an incentive compensation arrangement whereby the
employee may receive, subject to appropriate limits, additional compensation
measured by the extent of the achievement by the Authority of specified
operating goals, which goals shall be established by the Authority prior to the
commencement of work by the employee on the matter with respect to which the
goals were set.
(KRS 80.070) (Prior Code, § 35.24)
§ 35.035 INTEREST IN PROJECTS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No member or employee of the Housing Authority shall acquire any
interest, direct or indirect, in any project or in any property including or
planned to be included in any project, nor shall he or she have any interest,
direct or indirect, in any contract or proposed contract for materials or
services to be furnished or used in connection with any project.
   (B)   If any member or employee of the Authority owns or controls an
interest, direct or indirect, in any property included in any project, which
interest was acquired prior to his or her appointment or employment, he or she
shall disclose the same in writing to the Authority at the time of his or her
appointment and the disclosure shall be entered upon the minutes of the
Authority.
(KRS 80.080) (Prior Code, § 35.25)
§ 35.036 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   The Housing Authority shall have all the powers, duties, and
responsibilities set forth in KRS 80.020 et seq.
(Prior Code, § 35.26)
PARKS AND RECREATION COMMISSION
§ 35.050 ESTABLISHMENT OF PARK BOARD.
   (A)   There is hereby created a Park Board of five persons whose
qualifications shall be prescribed by the City Council.
(KRS 97.550)
   (B)   The Park Board shall consist of one member of City Council, one member
of the County School Board, and three other members, all of whom shall be
appointed by the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 35.40) (Ord. 1984-1, passed 5-14-1984; Ord. 10-1986, passed 6-3-
1986)
§ 35.051 TERM OF OFFICE; COMPENSATION.
   (A)   The term of office of the members appointed to the Park Board shall be
for two years or until their successors are appointed and qualified. Three
members of the first Board appointed shall be appointed for terms of only one
year.
   (B)   The members of the Board shall not receive any salary for their
services.
(KRS 97.550) (Prior Code, § 35.41) (Ord. 1984-1, passed 5-14-1984)
§ 35.052 OATH.
   Each person appointed to the Park Board shall appear before the City Clerk
and make and subscribe to an oath that he or she will faithfully, diligently,
and to the best of his or her ability perform all the duties as a member of the
Board; that he or she will not in any manner, directly or indirectly, be
concerned in any contract, purchase, sale, or emolument of any kind in
connection with or growing out of any business of the Board, or the providing,
purchasing, managing, or improving of any park or playground property. The oath
shall be filed in the office of the City Clerk and shall be a public record.
(KRS 97.560) (Prior Code, § 35.42) (Ord. 1984-1, passed 5-14-1984)
§ 35.053 LEGAL AUTHORITY OF BOARD.
   The Park Board shall be a corporation with perpetual succession, and may, in
its corporate name, contract and be contracted with, sue and be sued, have and
use a corporate seal, and alter or renew it at pleasure.
(KRS 97.550) (Prior Code, § 35.43) (Ord. 1984-1, passed 5-14-1984)
§ 35.054 OFFICERS.
   As soon as it is convenient, the members of the Park Board shall meet and
choose a President and a Secretary from among its members, each to serve for a
term of one year, and annually thereafter a President and Secretary shall be
chosen. The duties of the officers shall be the usual duties incumbent upon
such an office and such other duties as the Board prescribes.
(KRS 97.570) (Prior Code, § 35.44)
§ 35.055 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   The Park Board shall have the care, management, and control of all parks and
playgrounds within the limits of the city, shall lay out and improve them with
walks, drives, roads, and trees, provide appliances and equipment for
playgrounds, and provide for the proper lighting of the parks and playgrounds.
(KRS 97.580) (Prior Code, § 35.45)
§ 35.056 REPORTS AND RECORDS.
   (A)   The Park Board shall keep a set of books showing the receipts and
expenditures of the Board. The books shall at all times be subject to
examination by the Mayor or any committee of the City Council authorized to
make such examination, either by themselves or by an expert accountant.
   (B)   The Board shall each January transmit to the Mayor and City Council a
full and detailed report and statement of the acts of the Board for the
preceding year, with a complete and itemized account of all receipts and
disbursements of money and an itemized estimate of the money needed for park
and playground purposes.
(KRS 97.600) (Prior Code, § 35.46)
§ 35.057 TAX LEVY; DISBURSEMENTS.
   (A)   In the event the city levies the tax for the purpose of purchasing or
maintaining public parks within the city limits which is authorized by KRS
97.590, the funds derived from the levy shall be held by the City Treasurer in
a separate and distinct fund designated the “Park Fund,” and shall be paid out
by the Treasurer only upon order issued by the Park Board signed by the
Secretary and countersigned by the President after the bill for the withdrawal
has been approved by the Board.
   (B)   The Treasurer shall not honor in any one year orders for a greater sum
than the amount apportioned and levied for that year for park and playground
purposes.
(KRS 97.590(2)) (Prior Code, § 35.47)
§ 35.058 PARK STREET REHABILITATION BOARD.
   The Park Street Rehabilitation Board is hereby established for the city. It
shall be responsible for the general maintenance of all streets and public ways
contained in the city parks.
(Prior Code, § 35.48)
PLANNING COMMISSION
§ 35.070 ESTABLISHMENT.
   In order to guide and accomplish a coordinated and harmonious development of
the city which will, in accordance with existing and future needs, best promote
public health, safety, morals, order, convenience, prosperity, and the general
welfare as well as efficiency and economy in the process of development, the
Planning Commission is hereby created and established as authorized by KRS
100.133 et seq. and the Commission shall be organized and empowered as set
forth in this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 35.60) (Ord. 88-1958, passed 5-16-1958)
§ 35.071 MEMBERSHIP.
   As required under KRS 100.133, the Planning Commission shall consist of
seven members, with at least five of these being citizen members as defined by
KRS 100.111(4). The two non-citizen members shall be as follows: one shall be
an administrative official of the city (other than the Mayor), and the other
shall be a member of City Council.
(Prior Code, § 35.61)
§ 35.072 APPOINTING AUTHORITY.
   The Mayor shall appoint all members of the Planning Commission, with the
approval of City Council.
(KRS 100.141) (Prior Code, § 35.62)
§ 35.073 TERM OF OFFICE.
   The term of office of all elected public officials appointed to the Planning
Commission shall be the same as their official tenure in office. The term of
office for other members of the Planning Commission shall be four years, but
the term of office of members first appointed shall be staggered so that a
proportionate number serve one, two, three, and four years respectively. Later
appointments or reappointments shall continue the staggered pattern.
(KRS 100.143) (Prior Code, § 35.63)
§ 35.074 VACANCIES.
   Vacancies on the Planning Commission shall be filled within 60 days by the
Mayor, with approval of Council. If the Mayor fails to act within that time,
the Planning Commission shall fill the vacancy. When a vacancy occurs other
than through expiration of the term of office, it shall be filled for the
remainder of that term.
(KRS 100.147) (Prior Code, § 35.64)
§ 35.075 OATH OF OFFICE.
   All members of the Planning Commission shall, before entering upon their
duties, qualify by taking the oath of office prescribed by § 228 of the
Constitution of the commonwealth.
(KRS 100.151) (Prior Code, § 35.65)
§ 35.076 REIMBURSEMENT OR COMPENSATION.
   Reimbursement for expenses or compensation, or both, may be authorized for
citizen members of the Planning Commission. Reimbursement for expenses may be
authorized for the non-citizen but such members shall receive no compensation.
(KRS 100.153) (Prior Code, § 35.66)
§ 35.077 REMOVAL.
   Any member of the Planning Commission may be removed by the Mayor for
inefficiency, neglect of duty, malfeasance, or conflict of interest. If the
Mayor exercises the power to remove a member of the Planning Commission, he or
she shall submit a written statement to the Commission setting forth the
reasons for removal. The statement shall be read at the next meeting of the
Planning Commission, which shall be open to the general public. The member so
removed shall have the right of appeal in the Circuit Court.
(KRS 100.157) (Prior Code, § 35.67)
§ 35.078 OFFICERS.
   The Planning Commission shall annually elect a Chairperson and any other
officers which it deems necessary. All officers shall be citizen members, and
shall be eligible for re-election at the expiration of their term.
(KRS 100.161) (Prior Code, § 35.68)
§ 35.079 MEETINGS.
   (A)   The Planning Commission shall conduct regular meetings as it deems
necessary for the transaction of its business; but there shall be at least six
regular meetings annually. The schedule for regular meetings shall be expressed
in the rules and regulations of the Commission.
   (B)   Special meetings shall be held at the call of the Chairperson who
shall give written or oral notice to all members at least seven days prior to
the meeting. This notice shall contain the date, time, place, and the subject
or subjects which shall be discussed.
(KRS 100.163) (Prior Code, § 35.69)
§ 35.080 MINUTES AND BYLAWS.
   (A)   The Planning Commission shall adopt bylaws for the transaction of
business, and shall keep minutes and records of all proceedings, including
regulations, transactions, findings, determinations, the number of votes for
and against each question, and if any member is absent or disqualifies from
voting, all of which shall, immediately after adoption, be filed in the office
of the Commission.
   (B)   A transcript of the entire proceedings of the Planning Commission
shall be provided if requested by a party, at the expense of the requesting
party and the transcript shall constitute the record.
(KRS 100.167) (Prior Code, § 35.70)
§ 35.081 QUORUM; MEMBER MAY CONDUCT HEARINGS OR PRESIDE.
   (A)   A simple majority of the total membership of the Planning Commission
shall constitute a quorum.
      (1)   Any member of the Planning Commission who has any direct or
indirect financial interest in the outcome of any question before the body
shall disclose the nature of the interest, shall disqualify himself or herself
from voting on the question, and shall not be counted for the purpose of a
quorum.
      (2)   A simple majority vote of all members present where there is a
properly constituted quorum shall be necessary to transact any business of the
Commission, except that a vote of a simple majority of the total membership
shall be necessary for the adoption or amendment of the comprehensive plan.
   (B)   The Planning Commission may appoint one or more of its members to act
as a hearing examiner or examiners to preside over a public hearing and make
recommendations to the Commission based upon a transcript of record of the
hearing.
(KRS 100.171) (Prior Code, § 35.71)
§ 35.082 EMPLOYING PLANNERS OR OTHER PERSONS.
   The Planning Commission may employ a staff or contract with planners or
other persons as it deems necessary to accomplish its assigned duties under
this subchapter.
(KRS 100.173) (Prior Code, § 35.72)
§ 35.083 FINANCES.
   The City Council may appropriate out of general revenues for the expenses
and accommodations necessary for the work of the Planning Commission. The
Planning Commission shall have the right to receive, hold, and spend funds
which it may legally receive from any and every source both in and out of the
commonwealth, including the U.S. Government, for the purpose of carrying out
the provisions of this subchapter. The bylaws shall describe the method for
administration of funds, and an annual audit shall be performed of all
receipts, expenditures, and funds on hand by the Auditor of Public Accounts or
an independent certified public accountant. The report of every audit,
including financial statements, shall be kept in the same manner prescribed in
§
35.080 for other records.
(KRS 100.177) (Prior Code, § 35.73)
§ 35.084 ASSIGNING OTHER FUNCTIONS TO COMMISSION.
   The City Council or the Mayor may assign to the Planning Commission any
powers, duties, and functions relating to urban renewal, public housing, or
community development.
(KRS 100.181) (Prior Code, § 35.74)
§ 35.085 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   The Planning Commission shall have all the powers, duties, and
responsibilities as set forth in KRS Ch. 100 or other statutes relating to the
duties and powers of municipal planning commissions adopted subsequent thereto.
(Prior Code, § 35.75) (Ord. 88-1958, passed 5-16-1958)
ZONING BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT
§ 35.100 ESTABLISHMENT.
   For provisions concerning the Zoning Board of Adjustment, see §
154.137.
(Prior Code, § 35.85)
CIVIC CENTER COMMISSION
§ 35.115 CREATION AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF COMMISSION; MEMBERS.
   There shall be a commission, known as the Catlettsburg Civic Center
Commission. The members of this Commission shall consist of one member who
shall be a member of the City Council and shall be appointed by the Mayor, two
members at large who shall be appointed by the Mayor with the consent of the
City Council, and two persons who are directors of Catlettsburg Main Street
Program, Inc., who shall be nominated by said Catlettsburg Main Street Program,
Inc., subject to the approval and consent of the City Council, all of whom
shall serve two-year terms. This Commission shall be responsible for the
supervision and control of the operation of the Catlettsburg Civic Center,
which is the former C&O passenger station property conveyed to the city by the
Chesapeake & Ohio Railway Company, located on 26th Street in the city.
(Ord. 5 2010 Series, passed 3-16-2010)
§ 35.116 AUTHORIZATION OF LEASE.
   The city is authorized to lease the civic center property to the
Catlettsburg Main Street Program, Inc. for the management and operation of the
facility, for nominal consideration, on such terms and conditions as may be
approved by the Council, and the Mayor is hereby authorized to execute any such
lease as may be approved by the Council by resolution, provided that any such
lease must include a provision that the lease shall terminate and management
and control of the Civic Center shall revert to the city and the City Civic
Center Commission if Catlettsburg Main Street Program, Inc. ceases to actively
operate the facility as a civic center.
(Ord. 5 2010 Series, passed 3-16-2010)
§ 35.117 SUPERVISION OF LESSEE.
   The Civic Center Commission shall supervise the activity of the lessee for
the city and shall be responsible for assuring that the property is maintained
in a state of good repair and shall require the lessee of said property to
maintain adequate funds in reserve for the maintenance and repair of said
property.
(Ord. 5 2010 Series, passed 3-16-2010)
§ 35.118 INSURANCE AND INDEMNIFICATION.
   Catlettsburg Main Street Program, Inc. shall obtain, at its cost, fire and
casualty insurance covering the subject property and shall indemnify the city
against any loss as a result of its operation of the facility.
(Ord. 5 2010 Series, passed 3-16-2010)
§ 35.119 RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   Catlettsburg Main Street Program, Inc. may promulgate rules and regulations
for the operation of the Civic Center during the term of its lease of the same,
but all such rules and regulations must be approved by the City Civic Center
Commission.
(Ord. 5 2010 Series, passed 3-16-2010)
§ 35.120 RECORD REVIEW AND AUDITS.
   All records of the City Civic Center Commission and of Catlettsburg Main
Street Program, Inc. related to the management and operation of the
Catlettsburg Civic Center and the lease contemplated herein shall be subject to
review and audit by the Auditor of the city.
(Ord. 5 2010 Series, passed 3-16-2010)
§ 35.121 QUARTERLY REPORTS.
   The Civil Center Commission shall make a quarterly report to the City
Council concerning the operation of the Civil Center facility.
(Ord. 5 2010 Series, passed 3-16-2010)
CHAPTER 36: POLICE DEPARTMENT; FIRE DEPARTMENT
Section
General Provisions
   
36.01   Officers to be included in civil service provisions
   
36.02   Pension plan for existing police officers and firefighters
Fire Department
   
36.15   Establishment of Department; Fire Chief
   
36.16   Wages, expenses of Fire Department
Police Department
   
36.30   Establishment of Department
   
36.31   Police Chief; Assistant Police Chief
   
36.32   Police to assist firefighters
   
36.33   Hiring procedures and requirements introduction
   
36.34   Definitions
   
36.35   Vacancies; advertising requirement
   
36.36   Prerequisite qualifications and requirements of applicants for police
patroler
   
36.37   Written examination
   
36.38   Personal background investigation
   
36.39   Physical examination and qualifications
   
36.40   Physical fitness evaluation
   
36.41   Probationary patroler
   
36.42   Evaluation reports; effect on career status
   
36.43   Termination of employment during probationary period of employment
   
36.44   Permanent career status appointment
   
36.45   Adoption of the Policy and Procedure Manual
   
36.46   Document service fees
Cross-reference:
   City Officials and Employees, see
Ch. 31
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 36.01 OFFICERS TO BE INCLUDED IN CIVIL SERVICE PROVISIONS.
   The Chief of Police, the Assistant Chief of Police, the Chief of
Firefighters, the Deputy Chief of Firefighters, First Assistant Chief of
Firefighters, and the Second Assistant Chief of Firefighters are hereby placed
under and entitled to the protection and rights as set out in
Chapter 37 of this code of ordinances. Any rights or privileges relating to
continuity of service, retirement benefits, or any other privileges to which
they may be entitled even though not mentioned therein shall be retroactive to
and concur with length of service held by them.
(Prior Code, § 36.30) (Ord. 4-1970, passed 10-12-1970; Ord. 2-1989, passed 2-2-
1989)
§ 36.02 PENSION PLAN FOR EXISTING POLICE OFFICERS AND FIREFIGHTERS.
   The pension plan established for police officers and firefighters under KRS
Ch. 95 is frozen effective June 30, 1985 to participation by those existing
police officers and firefighters who are then participating therein and who
file with the city on or before June 30, 1985 a written election to continue
participating therein in lieu of participating in the County Employees
Retirement System established in §
37.012.
(Prior Code, § 36.50) (Ord. 4-1985, passed 4-9-1985)
Statutory reference:
   Adoption of employee retirement system, see KRS 95.761
   Optional participation by city employees in County Employees Retirement
System, see KRS 78.531
FIRE DEPARTMENT
§ 36.15 ESTABLISHMENT OF DEPARTMENT; FIRE CHIEF.
   (A)   A Fire Department is established in the city.
   (B)   The office of Fire Chief is hereby established.
      (1)   The Fire Chief shall be hired by the Mayor, and may be removed by
the Mayor at will.
      (2)   No person shall be hired or act as the Fire Chief unless such
person has taken the oath required by § 228 of the Constitution of the
commonwealth and has provided a bond in the sum of $2,000 with corporate surety
authorized to transact business in the commonwealth and conditioned upon the
performance of the duties specified herein and meets the qualifications set
forth in KRS 95.710.
      (3)   Subject to the authority of the Mayor, the Chief of the Fire
Department shall be responsible for the organization and operation of the Fire
Department and shall supervise, direct, and control the equipment of the Fire
Department; the firefighters in their response to fires and the extinguishment
thereof; and the plans, preparations, procedures, practice, and training in
regard thereto, and may, as Chief of the Fire Department, perform or cause to
be performed all other actions authorized by law, ordinance, or regulation.
      (4)   The compensation of the Fire Department Chief shall be in an amount
to be established by City Council by ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 36.01)
§ 36.16 WAGES, EXPENSES OF FIRE DEPARTMENT.
   That volunteer members of the Fire Department shall receive a $15 per diem
reimbursement of expenses for each fire call and $l0 per day for each training
session, for transportation, food and clothing expenses, said amounts shall be
paid from the Fire Expense Account. The city shall deduct monthly from such
expense reimbursement the sum or $10 for payment of the members Volunteer Fire
Department dues.
(Prior Code, § 36.02) (Ord. 1983-, passed 5-9-1983; Ord. 1, 2010 Series, passed
1-19-2010; Ord. 14, 2023, passed 1-25-2024)
POLICE DEPARTMENT
§ 36.30 ESTABLISHMENT OF DEPARTMENT.
   There is hereby established a Police Department in the city.
(Prior Code, § 35.15)
§ 36.31 POLICE CHIEF; ASSISTANT POLICE CHIEF.
   (A)   The Police Department shall consist of a Chief of Police, Assistant
Chief of Police, and regular police officers.
   (B)   The office of Police Chief and of Assistant Police Chief are hereby
established.
   (C)   The Police Chief, Assistant Police Chief, and all police officers
shall be hired by the Mayor, and may be removed by the Mayor at will.
   (D)   No person shall be hired or act as the Police Chief unless such person
has taken the oath required by § 228 of the Constitution of the commonwealth,
and has provided a bond in the sum of $5,000 with corporate surety authorized
to transact business in the commonwealth and conditioned upon the performance
of the duties specified herein and with the qualifications set forth in
division (E) below.
   (E)   Training and experience shall consist of any combination of education,
training, and experience which provides the necessary knowledge, skills, and
abilities to perform effectively the duties of the position.
   (F)   Subject to the authority of the Mayor, the Chief of Police shall be
responsible for the organization and operation of the Police Department of the
city, and he or she shall supervise, direct, and control the equipment and
personnel thereof in the enforcement of all statutes, laws, and ordinances
thereof.
   (G)   The compensation of the Police Chief, Assistant Police Chief, and all
police officers shall be in an amount to be established by City Council by
ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 35.16)
§ 36.32 POLICE TO ASSIST FIREFIGHTERS.
   It is hereby made the special duty of the Chief of Police and such police
officers as may be spared from regular duty at the time, to promptly answer all
fire alarms and attend each fire, assist the Fire Chief and his or her
Department in protecting the lives and property of the citizens and the
property of the Fire Department, and to assist in controlling and regulating
traffic and maintaining order in accordance with the state laws and ordinances
of this city.
(Prior Code, § 36.17) (Ord. passed 11-3-1930)
§ 36.33 HIRING PROCEDURES AND REQUIREMENTS INTRODUCTION.
   (A)   The procedures and requirements for recruitment, selection,
employment, training, and evaluation of entrance-level police officers with the
rank of patroler for the Department of Police (also referred to herein as the
“Police Department”) of the city shall be as hereafter prescribed in §§
36.33 through
36.44 or any future amending or superseding ordinance thereto.
   (B)   Sections 36.33 through 36.44 shall be known and may be referred to as
the “Comprehensive Hiring Ordinance for Patroler for the Department of Police
of the City of Catlettsburg.”
(Prior Code, § 36.18) (Ord. 10-1987, passed 3-10-1987)
§ 36.34 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of §§
36.33 through
36.44, the following definitions shall apply unless the context clearly
indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUREAU OF TRAINING. A bureau of the Kentucky Department of Justice, for the
purpose of providing training to police officers.
   CAREER STATUS PATROLER. A patroler who has completed his or her required
probationary period of employment and has been approved as required by §§
36.33 through
36.44 or amending or superseding ordinances, and has been appointed to
permanent (career) status pursuant to the terms of §
36.44.
   COACH-ADVISOR. A career status patroler to whom a probationary patroler is
assigned for on-the-job training and guidance.
   DATE OF APPOINTMENT. The date upon which the City Council, by affirmative
vote, approves the appointment of an individual to the Police Department of the
city.
   DUTY SERGEANT. Any on-duty police sergeant assigned to a patrol team.
   PATROL DIVISION COMMANDER. A police captain assigned to command the entire
Patrol Division.
   PROBATIONARY PATROLER. A patroler who has not reached the first anniversary
from his or her date of appointment.
   PROBATIONARY PERIOD. A period of one year beginning on date of appointment
and ending on first anniversary date of employment.
   TEAM COMMANDER. A police lieutenant assigned to a group of personnel for the
purpose of accomplishing the police duties required of that group during a tour
of duty.
(Prior Code, § 36.19)  (Ord. 10-1987, passed 3-10-1987)
§ 36.35 VACANCIES; ADVERTISING REQUIREMENT.
   (A)   (1)   Upon notification by the Chief of Police that a vacancy or
vacancies exist for the position of police patroler within the Department of
Police, or that additional patrolers have been authorized to be added to the
Police Department of the city, the Mayor shall authorize and require the
Director of Personnel to make public by appropriate advertising the intent of
the city to employ such personnel.
      (2)   Basic prerequisite qualifications for patroler, dates, hours, and
place applications may be obtained, and a closing date for receiving completed
applications shall be indicated in the advertisement. The city is an equal
opportunity employer and subscribes to the Affirmative Action Plan, M/F.
   (B)   The requirement for any documents to be attached to or presented with
the completed application shall be noted thereon.
(Prior Code, § 36.20) (Ord. 10-1987, passed 3-10-1987)
§ 36.36 PREREQUISITE QUALIFICATIONS AND REQUIREMENTS OF APPLICANTS FOR POLICE
PATROLER.
   (A)   Prior to being administered any written or other examination for the
position of police patroler, each applicant must meet the following
prerequisite requirements. The applicant must:
      (1)   Have reached his or her twenty-first birthday prior to the date of
probationary appointment;
      (2)   Be a high school graduate or must have obtained a General
Educational Development (GED) diploma for high school level;
      (3)   Be an orderly, law-abiding citizen;
      (4)   Be a person of sobriety and integrity;
      (5)   Be of sound mind and body;
      (6)   Be willing to become a qualified voter of the county if employed;
      (7)   Be willing to undergo thorough physical, mental, and emotional
examinations as required prior to probationary appointment, provided he or she
satisfactorily passes the written examination;
      (8)   Be willing to undergo thorough personal background investigation
prior to probationary appointment provided he or she satisfactorily passes the
written examination;
      (9)   Have any other qualifications as may be prescribed by Kentucky
Statutes or ordinances of the city; and
      (10)   Not be receiving compensation from a previous or current employer
because of any physical or mental disability, nor shall applicant be receiving
compensation from any source because of any chronic or permanent disability,
however incurred.
   (B)   Each applicant who is a discharged veteran of the Armed Forces of the
United States shall present with his or her application official documentation,
or his or her DD214, Official Discharge, showing the reason for his or her
discharge.
(Prior Code, § 36.21) (Ord. 10-1987, passed 3-10-1987)
§ 36.37 WRITTEN EXAMINATION.
   (A)   Within a reasonable time after the closing date for receiving
applications, applicants who have returned their applications in a timely
manner and who meet the prerequisite requirements of §
36.36 shall be administered a written examination to determine the fitness of
each applicant for the position to be filled, covering, but not limited to, the
following:
      (1)   Knowledge of and ability to read, write, and understand the English
language;
      (2)   Ability to observe and recall information, facts, and
characteristics relevant to the duties of the position applied for;
      (3)   Ability to understand and follow directions correctly; and
      (4)   General comprehension and knowledge.
   (B)   Passing grade for such written examination shall be a minimum score of
60%.
(Prior Code, § 36.22) (Ord. 10-1987, passed 3-10-1987)
§ 36.38 PERSONAL BACKGROUND INVESTIGATION.
   (A)   Each applicant who passes the written examination as provided in §
36.37 shall be required to complete a detailed personal history questionnaire
and shall be subject to a comprehensive personal background investigation which
shall be conducted by the Chief of Police or his or her appointed agent.
   (B)   The investigator shall contact all references indicated upon the
application and upon the personal history questionnaire and their personal
evaluations of the applicant shall be noted by the investigator.
   (C)   Further investigation shall be made relating to the applicant’s:
      (1)   Educational background;
      (2)   Past employment history;
      (3)   Medical history relating to physical fitness for the position
applied;
      (4)   History of mental or emotional disorders which would relate to the
applicant’s fitness for the position applied for;
      (5)   Personal background as it relates to the position applied for;
      (6)   Credit standing;
      (7)   Criminal record; and
      (8)   Any other relative information discovered during the course of
investigation or which might relate to the applicant’s fitness for the position
applied for.
   (D)   The investigation shall be continued until all elements of the
personal background investigation have been verified or disproved.
   (E)   The investigator shall prepare a written record of all findings, which
record shall be forwarded to the Chief of Police, who shall review and evaluate
the record and make a recommendation to the Mayor as to the applicant’s fitness
for the position applied for.
(Prior Code, § 36.23) (Ord. 10-1987, passed 3-10-1987)
§ 36.39 PHYSICAL EXAMINATION AND QUALIFICATIONS.
   (A)   Each applicant, who successfully passes the prescribed written
examination and who thereafter is not disqualified upon the basis of the
applicant’s personal background investigation, shall submit to a physical
examination by a qualified physician selected by the city and the applicant
must meet the following minimum standards prior to being enlisted as a patroler
with the Police Department.
   (B)   The required physical examination shall include, but is not limited to
the following.
      (1)   Medical history. The applicant’s medical history must be free from
pathological or other than a normal physical or mental job expectancy.
      (2)   General appearance. The applicant must be free from any marked
deformity, parasitic, or systemic skin disease, and any medical evidence of
intemperance in the use of alcohol, stimulants, or drugs, and must have a good
physique with no muscular weakness or obesity.
      (3)   Eyes.
         (a)   The applicant must be free from color blindness, tunnel vision,
chronic inflammation of the lids, excessive night blindness, and permanent
abnormalities of either eye.
         (b)   Visual acuity shall be 20/50 or better in each eye, tested
separately, with a binocular vision of 20/20 with corrective lenses.
      (4)   Ears.
         (a)   The applicant must have normal hearing in each ear, tested
separately. (The normal speech range falls within an electronic frequency of
250, 500, 750, 1,000, and 2,000 kilocycles and intensity of the tones heard by
a person is measured in decibels.)
         (b)   The applicant must not have a hearing loss of 15 decibels on any
two of the frequencies found in the normal speech range. The ears must be free
of disease.
      (5)   Nose, mouth, teeth, gums, and tongue.
         (a)   The applicant must not have an obstruction to normal free
breathing, chronic catarrh, and must not have deformities or conditions of the
mouth that interfere with distinct speech or that predispose to diseases of the
mouth, ear, nose, or throat.
         (b)   Tonsils and thyroid must be free from disease and enlargement.
         (c)   Teeth must be clean and well cared for.
      (6)   Respiratory system.
         (a)   The applicant must have full, easy, and regular respiration.
         (b)   The chest shall be x-rayed and respiratory organs must be free
of disease.
      (7)   Circulatory system.
         (a)   Sounds, rhythm, and size of the heart must be normal.
         (b)   Pulse rate must be normal and regular and blood pressure must
not exceed 135/50.
         (c)   Electrocardiograms and temperature shall be within normal
limits.
         (d)   There must be no varicose veins or marked tendency toward their
formation.
      (8)   Genito-urinary.
         (a)   Genitalia must be free from deformities, marked varicocele,
hydroccle, enlargement of prostate gland, stricture or incontinence of urine,
and in the case of male applicants, both testicles must be descended and normal
with no signs of atrophy.
         (b)   The genito-urinary organs must be free of disease.
      (9)   Hemorrhoids. The applicant must be completely free from hemorrhoids
and there must be no marked tendency toward their formation.
      (10)   Hernia. The applicant must be completely free from hernias and
there must be no marked tendency toward their formation.
      (11)   Extremities and joints. The applicant must be free from
afflictions of the joints, stiffness, malformations, arthritis, or other
conditions such as flat feet or hammertoes which would prevent the proper and
easy performance of duty, and all fingers, thumbs, and toes must be present in
their entirety.
      (12)   Nervous system. The nervous system must be normal with no evidence
of tremors or other nervous disorders, and there must be no evidence of
epilepsy.
      (13)   Kidneys. The kidneys must be healthy and urine normal as
determined by chemical or microscopic analysis.
      (14)   Laboratory study. A complete blood count, chemical profile of
blood, urinalysis, serological test for syphilis, and any other laboratory
tests requested by the examining physician shall be performed and shall fall
within a normal range.
      (15)   Height and weight.
         (a)   Weight must be commensurate with height.
         (b)   The following table may be used as a guide for the examining
physician.
Desirable Weight Ranges
Height Weight/Male Weight/Female
Desirable Weight Ranges
Height Weight/Male Weight/Female
5' 0"  110-121     100-110
5' 1"  116-128     105-116
5' 2"  122-134     110-121
5' 3"  128-141     115-127
5' 4"  134-147     120-132
5' 5"  152-167     125-138
5' 6"  146-161     130-143
5' 7"  152-167     135-149
5' 8"  158-174     140-154
5' 9"  164-180     145-160
5' 10" 170-187     150-165
5' 11" 176-194     155-171
6' 0"  182-200     160-176
6' 1"  188-207     165-182
6' 2"  194-213     170-187
6' 3"  200-220     175-193
6' 4"  206-227     180-198
6' 5"  212-234     185-204
6' 6"  218-240     190-209
6' 7"  224-246     195-215
 
         (c)   Weights and heights beyond those listed above shall be
calculated by the examining physician at the time of the physical examination
and shall use the same formula.
         (d)   The applicant shall reveal to the examiner any past or present
medical problems which might affect his or her efficiency as a police officer.
         (e)   The examiner may request additional examination of the applicant
to clarify any medical questions.
         (f)   The examiner may refer the applicant to the applicant’s personal
physician for treatment of an obvious physical problem at the applicant’s own
expense. This shall be noted in examiner’s report and examiner shall express an
opinion in writing as to the seriousness and likelihood of curability of any
such ailment.
         (g)   The city may request a related report from the applicant’s
personal physician.
         (h)   The examiner shall express his or her opinion in writing as to
whether or not the applicant is physically fit for duty as a police officer.
(Prior Code, § 36.24) (Ord. 10-1987, passed 3-10-1987)
§ 36.40 PHYSICAL FITNESS EVALUATION.
   (A)   Each applicant shall be required to satisfactorily complete a physical
fitness evaluation at a time selected by the city and conducted in a place
where such activities would normally be expected and carried out.
   (B)   (1)   The evaluation is for the purpose of exposing hidden physical
abnormalities or problems and to determine as accurately as possible the
ability of the applicant to cope with the extreme physical stress of a police
officer.
      (2)   It shall be conducted and supervised by a person trained and
qualified to instruct and evaluate others concerning physical fitness.
      (3)   The Department shall be represented at the evaluation by a medical
doctor and a career officer.
(Prior Code, § 36.25) (Ord. 10-1987, passed 3-10-1987)
§ 36.41 PROBATIONARY PATROLER.
   (A)   Probationary patroler shall show proficiency in:
      (1)   Familiarization with the rules and regulations, report systems,
general orders, and directives;
      (2)   Use and care of city equipment and uniforms;
      (3)   Proper use and care of personal equipment and uniforms;
      (4)   Departmental procedures;
      (5)   Conduct, on and off duty;
      (6)   Proactive patrol;
      (7)   Arrest, court, and radio procedures;
      (8)   Driving and investigation techniques;
      (9)   Traffic control and procedure;
      (10)   Vice control;
      (11)   Juvenile laws and procedures; and
      (12)   Citizen complaints.
   (B)   The coach-advisor shall file with the Chief of Police and the Mayor a
weekly progress and evaluation report, which will assist the Chief of Police in
evaluating the probationary member for final release to regular assignments.
(Prior Code, § 36.26) (Ord. 10-1987, passed 3-10-1987)
§ 36.42 EVALUATION REPORTS; EFFECT ON CAREER STATUS.
   (A)   Evaluation reports, endorsed by the probationary patroler’s coach-
advisor and the Chief of Police, are required before any change of status
(i.e., from probationary to career status) is approved.
   (B)   The evaluation reports shall be forwarded to the Chief of Police:
      (1)   At the conclusion of probationary patroler’s formal schooling at
the Bureau of Training;
      (2)   At the end of probationary patroler’s first six months of
employment; and
      (3)   Prior to the probationary patroler’s first anniversary of the date
of employment.
(Prior Code, § 36.27) (Ord. 10-1987, passed 3-10-1987)
§ 36.43 TERMINATION OF EMPLOYMENT DURING PROBATIONARY PERIOD OF EMPLOYMENT.
   Any probationary patroler may be terminated from employment at any time
during his or her first year of employment at the discretion of the Chief of
Police, with approval of the Mayor and the City Council, for any valid reason,
including, but not limited to, the following:
   (A)   Inability to perform duties in a progressive manner;
   (B)   Physical or emotional incapacity;
   (C)   Inability to assimilate education and training;
   (D)   Conduct unbecoming an officer;
   (E)   Public drunkenness, on or off duty;
   (F)   Improper or illegal use of vehicle and equipment;
   (G)   Consorting or associating with known criminals, except in line of
duty;
   (H)   Insubordination;
   (I)   Negligence or incompetence;
   (J)   Any reason which demonstrates member’s undesirable character or lack
of integrity; or
   (K)   Any other reason which reflects negatively or with dishonor on the
city or its Department of Police.
(Prior Code, § 36.28) (Ord. 10-1987, passed 3-10-1987)
§ 36.44 PERMANENT CAREER STATUS APPOINTMENT.
   Upon the satisfactory completion of one year of service with the Police
Department of the city as a probationary patroler pursuant to the terms and
conditions set forth in §§
36.33 through this section, and upon the recommendation of the Chief of Police
and the Mayor with the approval of the City Council, such probationary patroler
shall be awarded permanent career status with all pay, benefits, and allowances
pertinent thereto.
(Prior Code, § 36.29) (Ord. 10-1987, passed 3-10-1987)
§ 36.45 ADOPTION OF THE POLICY AND PROCEDURE MANUAL.
   (A)   The Policy and Procedure Manual of the City Police Department being a
document separate and apart from this section of the city as fully to all
intents and purposes as if set out at length herein.
   (B)   A copy of said document shall be kept on file in the office of the
Clerk/Treasurer shall be made available for reference at all times during the
regular office hours.
   (C)   This section shall take effect from and after its adoption and
readoption.
(Ord. 08-1997 Series, passed 10-9-1997)
§ 36.46 DOCUMENT SERVICE FEES.
   (A)   The City Police Department shall be allowed to charge a $10 service
fee for serving warrants, citations, or other documents for the courts or any
official agency.
   (B)   The $10 service fee shall be payable for each document served and
shall be paid to the city.
   (C)   The city is empowered to enact this section under KRS 95.019.
(Ord. 11-2001 Series, passed 9-11-2001)
CHAPTER 37: EMPLOYMENT POLICIES
Section
General Provisions
   
37.001   Definitions
   
37.002   Application of subchapter
   
37.003   Adoption of civil service; Civil Service Commission
   
37.004   Examinations; rating
   
37.005   Qualifications of applicants
   
37.006   Present employees
   
37.007   Appointments; promotions
   
37.008   Dismissal, suspension, or reduction
   
37.009   Action in Circuit Court
   
37.010   Number of employees
   
37.011   Prohibition of political activity
   
37.012   Pension fund
   
37.013   Classification and salaries of city employees
   
37.014   City responsible for deductible amount on officials and employees when
suit is brought
   
37.015   Affirmative action plan
   
37.016   Prohibiting drug use and certifying a drug-free workplace
Code of Ethics for Elected and Appointed City Officials and Employees
   
37.030   Title
   
37.031   Definitions
   
37.032   Standards of conduct
   
37.033   Misuse of confidential information
   
37.034   Representation of interests before city government
   
37.035   Use of city property, equipment, and personnel
   
37.036   Conflicts of interest in contracts
   
37.037   Nepotism
   
37.038   Financial disclosure
   
37.039   Filing of financial disclosure
   
37.040   Noncompliance with filing requirement
   
37.041   City Ethics Commission created
   
37.042   Powers and duties of the Ethics Commission
   
37.043   Filing and investigation of complaints
   
37.044   Notice of hearings
   
37.045   Hearing procedure
   
37.046   Appeals
   
37.047   Limitation of actions
   
37.048   Effective date
Comprehensive Drug and Alcohol-Free Workplace
   
37.060   Purpose and goals
   
37.061   Definitions
   
37.062   Applicability
   
37.063   Policy requirements
   
37.064   Prohibited activity
   
37.065   Searches
   
37.066   Consequences of engaging in prohibited conduct: alcohol
   
37.067   Consequences of engaging in prohibited conduct: drugs
   
37.068   Consequences of engaging in prohibited conduct: volatile substances
   
37.069   Consequences of refusal to submit to an alcohol or controlled
substance test
   
37.070   Off-duty alcohol, drug use, and/or volatile substance; intentional
misuse; call back
   
37.071   Employee Assistance Program (EAP)
   
37.072   Records retention, release, and confidentiality
   
37.073   City financial assistance
   
37.074   Drug-free workplace policy administration and enforcement
   
37.075   Responsibility
Credit Card Policy
   
37.090   Scope
   
37.091   Authorized users
   
37.092   Types of expenses
   
37.093   Acquisition of a credit card account
   
37.094   Use and management of a credit card account
   
37.095   Issuance, reissuance and cancellation of a credit card
   
37.096   Reporting a lost or stolen credit card
   
37.097   Maximum credit limit
   
37.098   Incentive programs and rewards
 
   
37.999   Penalty
   
Appendix A:    Statement of Financial Disclosure
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 37.001 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADMINISTRATIVE OR DIRECTORIAL POSITION. The head of a department of the
city.
   APPOINTING AUTHORITY. The officer, commission, board, or body having the
power of appointment or removal in any office, department, commission, board,
or institution.
   CIVIL SERVICE. The offices and positions of trust or employment in the
service of the city not specifically excluded by KRS 90.310 through 90.410 or
by ordinance of the city as provided in §
37.003.
   COMMISSION. The Board of Civil Service Commissioners as established under §
37.003.
   DISMISSAL. The discharge of an employee.
   EMPLOYEE. Any person employed in the conduct of municipal affairs, but the
term shall not include the Mayor or an administrative or directorial position.
Any person employed in an administrative or directorial position on July 15,
1982, shall continue to be covered by the provisions of KRS 90.310 through
90.410 and this subchapter for such time as he or she is employed in such
position, notwithstanding the removal of the position from the definition of
EMPLOYEE.
   PENSION FUND. The monies derived from city employees and the levy of a
special tax, either or both, or any other sum derived from any other source, to
be used for the retirement of employees after the prescribed years of service,
and for the benefit of disabled employees, surviving spouses, and dependent
children in the case of death of an employee within the scope of his or her
employment according to the terms of KRS 90.310 through 90.410 and this
subchapter.
(KRS 90.300(1)) (Prior Code, § 37.01)
§ 37.002 APPLICATION OF SUBCHAPTER.
   The provisions of this subchapter are in addition to those statutes
governing police and fire departments, and their pension funds as set forth in
KRS Ch. 95.
(KRS 90.300(2)) (Prior Code, § 37.02)
§ 37.003 ADOPTION OF CIVIL SERVICE; CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION.
   (A)   The city hereby elects to operate under KRS 90.310 through 90.410, and
hereby creates a Civil Service Commission which shall hold examinations as to
the qualifications of applicants for municipal employment.
   (B)   The Mayor, subject to the approval of the City Council, shall appoint
three persons who shall constitute the Civil Service Commission. Each appointee
shall be at least 30 years of age and not related by either blood or marriage
to the Mayor or any member of the City Council.
      (1)   The appointees shall originally be appointed one for a term of
three years, one for a term of two years, and one for a term of one year, and
the successors to these appointees shall be appointed in like manner, each for
a period of three years and until his or her successor is appointed and
qualified. A vacancy shall be filled for the unexpired term in the same manner
as original appointments.
      (2)   At the time of any appointment, not more than two Commissioners
shall be adherents of the same political party.
      (3)   The appointee originally appointed for the term of three years
shall be Secretary of the Commission. Each appointee shall qualify by taking an
oath of office as required by law. The salaries of the members of the
Commission may be fixed by the City Council.
   (C)   If the Mayor fails to appoint a Civil Service Commission within 30
days after he or she has the power to so appoint or after a vacancy exists, the
Mayor Pro Tem shall make the appointment and the appointee shall hold office
until the expiration of the term and until his or her successor is appointed
and qualified.
   (D)   The Civil Service Commission shall make and enforce rules not
inconsistent with the provisions of KRS 90.310 through 90.410 or the ordinances
of the city, for examinations and registrations therefor.
(KRS 90.310) (Prior Code, § 37.03)
Statutory reference:
   Authority to adopt civil service provisions, see KRS 95.761(3)
§ 37.004 EXAMINATIONS; RATING.
   (A)   The Civil Service Commission shall prescribe and propound such
examinations as are proper, commensurate with vacant positions within the
various departments of the city, shall set such times and places for holding
examinations as may be proper, and shall give public notice of examinations by
publication pursuant to KRS Ch. 424.
   (B)   The Civil Service Commission shall as soon after examinations as is
practicable certify to the Mayor a list of the applicants so examined, with the
one having the highest average ranked first and all others ranked numerically
according to the result of the examination.
   (C)   Every soldier, sailor, marine, members of the Air Force, Army Nurses
Corps, or members of any other branches of the military services, and any Red
Cross nurse who served during the period of hostilities between the United
States and the Central Powers in World War I and between the United States and
Japan and Germany in World War II, who has been honorably discharged, is a
resident voter of the city, and who is an applicant for any position of civil
service of the city shall be entitled to a 5% increase on his or her
examination mark.
   (D)   The Mayor may designate certain civil service positions and prescribe
that for such positions the examinations shall first be given exclusively to
current employees. However, if less than three employees with a minimum of two
years’ seniority achieve a passing grade, the examination shall be held in
accordance with division (A) above.
(KRS 90.320) (Prior Code, § 37.04)
§ 37.005 QUALIFICATIONS OF APPLICANTS.
   (A)   The Civil Service Commission shall examine all applicants as to their
physical and mental qualifications for the particular classification wherein
they seek employment. To be eligible for examination, a person must shall be at
least 18 years of age, be a law-abiding citizen of sobriety and integrity, and
must be able to read and write and understand the English language.
   (B)   Any city legislative body that operates under KRS Ch.191 may by
ordinance require persons appointed to civil service positions to be a resident
of the county in which the city is located.
(KRS 90.330) (Prior Code, § 37.05)
§ 37.006 PRESENT EMPLOYEES.
   Employees who have been in the employ of the city for one year prior to the
adoption of this subchapter shall not be required to stand an original
examination and shall be eligible for all the benefits provided by KRS 90.310
through 90.410.
(KRS 90.340) (Prior Code, § 37.06)
§ 37.007 APPOINTMENTS; PROMOTIONS.
   (A)   The Mayor shall make all civil service appointments, and the
appointments shall be made only from the lists of applicants certified to him
or her by the Civil Service Commission after examination. Appointments shall be
made only by the selection of one of the three holding the highest averages in
the particular class and grade wherein the vacancy exists, except as provided
in division (E) below.
   (B)   Whenever it is imperative to fill a vacancy in classified civil
service before the Commission can certify a list of as many as three persons
eligible for appointment after competitive examination, the Mayor shall
nominate a competent person from the same class or next lower rank to the
Commission for noncompetitive examination, and if certified by the Commission
as qualified after the noncompetitive examination he or she may be appointed
provisionally to fill the vacancy until an appointment can be made after
competitive examination. This provisional appointment shall continue only until
a regular appointment can be made from the eligible list prepared by the
Commission, which eligible list shall be prepared within 90 days after the
vacancy.
   (C)   In case of great emergency and which no one one upon the eligible list
or by promotion from a lower rank is available, an appointment may be made by
the Mayor without examination, but in no case shall such appointment continue
longer than 60 days and in no case shall successive appointments be made of the
same person, or other persons, to such vacancy.
   (D)   Temporary appointments made necessary by reason of illness or
disability of regular employees shall continue only during such period of
disability.
   (E)   Whenever vacancy occurs in an office in the Police Department, the
city shall conduct testing and examinations for qualified applicants from
current employees for that position. The Civil Service Board shall then certify
the highest three scores to the Mayor for appointment to the position.
   (F)   Where the service to be rendered by an appointee in the classified
service is for a temporary period not to exceed 60 days and the need of such
service is imperative, the Mayor may select for that temporary service any
person on the list of those eligible for permanent appointment. Successive
temporary appointments to the same position shall not be made under this
provision. The acceptance or refusal by an eligible applicant of a temporary
appointment shall not affect his or her standing on the register for permanent
employment, nor shall temporary service be counted as part of the probationary
service in case of subsequent appointment to a permanent position.
   (G)   No person shall be certified by the Commission from an eligible list
more than four times to the same Mayor for the same or similar position.
   (H)   The Mayor may provide that all appointments for initial permanent
employment may be probationary appointments for a period of not more than 12
months, after which regular appointments shall be given to all probationary
employees who are deemed to be satisfactory by the Mayor.
(KRS 90.350) (Prior Code, § 37.07) (Ord. 02, 1999 Series, passed 3-23-1999)
§ 37.008 DISMISSAL, SUSPENSION, OR REDUCTION.
   (A)   No employee in the classified service shall be dismissed, suspended,
or reduced in grade or pay for any reason except inefficiency, misconduct,
insubordination, violation of law involving moral turpitude, or violation of
any rule adopted by the City Council or Civil Service Commission.
(KRS 90.360)
   (B)   After one year of tenure of term of service, an employee cannot be
fired or dismissed unless approved by a majority of Council for any of (but not
limited to) the following reasons:
      (1)   Insubordination;
      (2)   Misconduct;
      (3)   Inefficiency;
      (4)   Violation of law involving moral turpitude; and/or
      (5)   Violation of any rule adopted by City Council.
(Prior Code, § 37.08) (Ord. 3-1986, passed 2-10-1986)
§ 37.009 ACTION IN CIRCUIT COURT.
   (A)   Any employee of the city found guilty by the Civil Service Commission
of any charge as provided by §
37.008 may bring an action in the Circuit Court of the county to contest the
action of that body.
   (B)   Upon request in writing by the accused, and the payment of costs
therefor, the Clerk of the Civil Service Commission shall file a certified copy
of the charges and the judgment of that body in the Circuit Court. Upon the
transcript being filed, the case shall be docketed in the Circuit Court and
tried as an original action.
   (C)   If the Clerk fails to certify the transcript to the Circuit Court
within five days after the request is made, then the aggrieved person may file
an affidavit in that Court setting out as fully as possible the charges made at
the time of trial and judgment, together with a statement that demand for the
transcript had been made of the Clerk more than five days prior to the filing
of the affidavit. Upon filing of this affidavit in the Circuit Court, the case
shall be docketed in that Court and the Court may compel the filing of the
transcript by the Clerk by entering proper mandatory order. Upon failure of the
Clerk so to do, he or she shall be liable to fine and imprisonment for
contempt. Such action shall have precedence over other business and be
determined speedily.
(KRS 90.370) (Prior Code, § 37.09)
§ 37.010 NUMBER OF EMPLOYEES.
   (A)   The City Council shall fix by ordinance the number and classification
of city employees, and the salaries for each classification. When the number of
employees and their classification has been fixed by ordinance, no employee
shall be dismissed, suspended, or reduced in grade or pay for any reason except
that set out in §
37.008.
   (B)   Whenever in the exercise of a reasonable discretion, it shall be the
judgment of the City Council that economic necessity requires it, or that there
is no longer a need for a particular office or position to exist, the Civil
Service Commission may abolish the office or position and any officer or
employee occupying the office or position may be laid off or suspended until
and if the office or position is recreated or reestablished. The abolition of
any office or position must not be a subterfuge to effect another purpose, but
must be actual and bona fide and must not amount to the mere alteration,
modification, or abolition of title only.
   (C)   Should any officer or employee conceive that he or she has been
aggrieved by the abolition or the proposed abolition of the office or position,
he or she may, at any time within 90 days, file a petition in equity in the
Circuit Court of the County stating his or her reason why the position or
office has not been fairly abolished, or why it should not be abolished, and
upon issue joined thereon by the city, the burden shall be on the latter to
establish the necessity for and the good faith of the city in abolishing the
office or position. The right to abolish and the right to have the office or
position recreated shall be determined as other equitable actions are
determined.
   (D)   If the office or position is recreated or reestablished within five
years, then any person who was deprived of his or her office or position shall
be restored to the office or position he or she formerly held or occupied in
the order of his or her seniority if he or she shall elect to do so. The city
shall advise the officer or employee at his or her last known address and
advertise pursuant to KRS Ch. 424, that the office or position has been
recreated or reestablished.
(KRS 90.380) (Prior Code, § 37.10)
§ 37.011 PROHIBITION OF POLITICAL ACTIVITY.
   No person shall be appointed to any position because of political partisan
service rendered by him or her or his or her family or because of political
sentiment or affiliation, nor shall any person be dismissed or reduced in grade
because of any political opinion.
(KRS 90.390) (Prior Code, § 37.11)
§ 37.012 PENSION FUND.
   (A)   The pension plan established for the city employees under KRS Ch.95
and the ordinance codified herein, on file with the City Clerk, is hereby
frozen effective July 31, 1988, to participation by those existing employees
who are then participating therein and who file with the city on or before
October 31, 1988, a written election to continue participating therein in lieu
of participating in CERS.
   (B)   The city hereby elects to participate in the CERS effective August 1,
1988 and authorizes the Mayor to execute the appropriate instruments to
effectuate such election.
   (C)   All employees now participating in said existing city pension plan are
hereby authorized to terminate such participation and transfer to CERS.
   (D)   The city shall continue to fund and manage its said existing pension
plan for the benefit of any employees electing to continue therein and those
who are entitled to benefits in the existing pension plan.
   (E)   Employees hired on or after August 1, 1988, who are otherwise eligible
to participate in the city pension plan, shall participate only in CERS.
   (F)   The city hereby adopts the terms and provisions of the CERS, under KRS
78.510 through 78.852, elects the alternate participation plan under KRS 78.530
(3), and declares its intention to enter into an agreement with the Board of
Trustees for the amortization of the cost of such prior service credit over a
15-year period commencing on or about August 1, 1988.
   (G)   The individual employee accounts in the existing city pension plan
shall be transferred to CERS for credit to the respective employee’s individual
account in CERS, pursuant to KERS 78.531(1) and (2), upon election of such
employees to participate in CERS.
   (H)   The Mayor is hereby authorized and directed to certify to the Board of
Trustees the names of all employees deemed to be working in a hazardous
position for purposes of KRS 61.592, and all police officers and firefighters
employed after August 1, 1988, shall if otherwise qualified, be eligible for
CERS hazardous position coverage.
(Prior Code, § 37.12) (Ord. 4-1985, passed 4-9-1985; Ord. 15-1988, passed 8-2-
1988)
§ 37.013 CLASSIFICATION AND SALARIES OF CITY EMPLOYEES.
   The salaries or compensation of any city official or employee may be
designated by City Council.
(Prior Code, § 37.13) (Ord. 1-1989, passed 2-2-1989; Ord. 4-1989, passed 2-28-
1989; Ord. 17-1989, passed 10-5-1989; Ord. 18-1989, passed - - ; Ord. 1-1990,
passed 2-3-1990; Ord. 5-1990, passed 7-31-1990; Ord. 02-2003 Series, passed 3-
25-2003; Ord. 9, 2009 Series, passed 1-19-2010)
§ 37.014 CITY RESPONSIBLE FOR DEDUCTIBLE AMOUNT ON OFFICIALS AND EMPLOYEES WHEN
SUIT IS BROUGHT.
   The city shall be responsible for any deductible amount on city officials
and employees of the city when a suit is brought.
(Prior Code, § 37.14) (Ord. 20-1987, passed 9-28-1987)
§ 37.015 AFFIRMATIVE ACTION PLAN.
   (A)   Statement of policy. The affirmative action policy of the grantee is
to promote equal employment opportunity; to prohibit discrimination in
employment on account of race, color, religion, national origin, sex, age or
handicapped status; and to bring about a fair representation and utilization of
females and minorities on all levels of employment.
   (B)   Dissemination of policy. The grantee will advise all employees and
applicants for employment of this policy and will post it in a conspicuous
place. The grantee will make known to the public that employment opportunities
are available on the basis of individual ability and will encourage all persons
who are employed by the grantee to strive for advancement on that basis.
   (C)   Personnel actions. The grantee will actively recruit qualified or
qualifiable persons among females and minorities on a non-discriminatory basis
for all available job openings at every level; and the grantee will ensure
every employee equal treatment in respect to terms and conditions of
employment, job assignments, compensation, access to training and promotions.
   (E)   Workforce utilization: goals and timetables. The grantee will analyze
the utilization of females and minorities in its workforce and compare it with
the utilization by all employers in the city according
to the latest official census. The goal of the grantee is to bring about
comparable utilization in all categories within the next five years.
   (F)   Responsibility for implementation. The Mayor shall be responsible for
implementation of this affirmative action plan, including maintenance of the
workforce analysis and job roster and hearing complaints of discrimination by
any employees or prospective employees of the grantee, with a final appeal to
the city.
   (G)   Evaluation and reports. The person given responsibility for
implementation of this plan shall examine its operation periodically and shall
report the progress being made, together with recommendations for improvements
in the plan, to the grantee at least once every year.
(Res. 08-2015, passed 6-16-2015)
§ 37.016 PROHIBITING DRUG USE AND CERTIFYING A DRUG-FREE WORKPLACE.
   (A)   There is hereby adopted a policy prohibiting drug use and certifying a
drug-free workplace for grantee employees and officials and establishing a
grievance procedure.
   (B)   Policy shall be available to all grantee employees and adopted here by
reference.
(Res. 09-2015, passed 6-16-2015)
CODE OF ETHICS FOR ELECTED AND APPOINTED CITY OFFICIALS AND EMPLOYEES
§ 37.030 TITLE.
This subchapter shall be known and may be cited as the “City of Catlettsburg
Code of Ethics.”
(Ord. 09, 1994 Series, passed 11-28-1994)
§ 37.031 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUSINESS ASSOCIATE. Includes the following:
      (1)   A private employer;
      (2)   A general or limited partnership, or a general or limited partner
within the partnership;
      (3)   A corporation that is family-owned or in which all shares of stock
are closely-held, and the shareholders, owners, and officers of such a
corporation; or
      (4)   A corporation, business association, or other business entity in
which the county government officer or employee serves as a compensated agent
or representative.
   BUSINESS ORGANIZATION. Any corporation, partnership, sole proprietorship,
firm, enterprise, franchise, association, organization, self-employed
individual, holding company, joint stock company, receivership, trust,
professional service corporation, or any legal entity through which business is
conducted for profit.
   CANDIDATE. An individual who seeks nomination or election to a city
government office. An individual is a CANDIDATE when the individual:
      (1)   Files a notification and declaration for nomination for office with
the City Clerk or Secretary of State; or
      (2)   Is nominated for office by a political party under KRS 118.105,
118.115, 118.325, or 118.760.
   CITY. The City of Catlettsburg, Kentucky.
   CITY AGENCY. Any board, commission, authority, non-stock corporation, or
other entity formed by the city government or a combination of local
governments.
   CITY COUNCIL. The Mayor and City Council of Catlettsburg, Kentucky.
   CITY EMPLOYEE. Any person, whether compensated or not, whether full-time or
part-time, employed by or serving the city government or city government agency
who is not a city government officer.
   CITY OFFICER. Any person, whether compensated or not, whether full-time or
part-time, who is elected to any city government office, or any person who
serves as a member of the governing body of any city agency or special taxing
or non-taxing district.
   COMMISSION. The Ethics Commission.
   FAMILY MEMBER. A spouse, parent, child, bother, sister, grandparent,
grandchild, father-in-law, mother-in-law, brother-in-law, sister-in-law,
daughter-in-law, son-in-law, step-father, step-mother, step-son, step-daughter,
step-sister, half-bother, or half-sister.
   IMMEDIATE FAMILY MEMBER. A spouse, parent, brother or sister, son or
daughter, or a person claimed by the officer or employee, or the officer’s or
employee’s spouse, as a dependant for tax purposes.
(Ord. 09, 1994 Series, passed 11-28-1994)
§ 37.032 STANDARDS OF CONDUCT.
   (A)   No city officer or employee or member of his or her immediate family
shall have an interest in a business organization or engage in any business,
transaction, or professional activity, which is in substantial conflict with
the proper discharge of his or her duties in the public interest.
   (B)   No city officer or employee shall act in his or her official capacity
in any matter where he or she, a member of his or her immediate family, or a
business organization in which he or she has an interest has a direct or
indirect financial or personal involvement that might reasonably be expected to
impair his or her objectivity or independence of judgment.
   (C)   No city officer or employee shall undertake any employment or service,
compensated or not, which might reasonably be expected to prejudice his or her
independence of judgment in the exercise of his or her official duties.
   (D)   No city officer or employee, member of his or her immediate family, or
business organization in which he or she has an interest, shall solicit or
accept any gift, favor, loan, political contribution, service, promise of
future employment, or other thing of value based upon an understanding that the
gift, favor, loan, political contribution, service, promise, or other thing of
value was given or offered for the purpose of influencing him or her, directly
or indirectly, in the discharge of his or her official duties. This division
(D) shall not apply to the solicitation or acceptance of contributions to the
campaign of an announced candidate for elective public office as governed by
the Kentucky Revised Statutes.
   (E)   No city officer or employee shall be prohibited from giving or
receiving an award publicly presented in recognition of public service,
commercially reasonable loans made in the ordinary course of the lender’s
business, or reasonable hosting, including travel and expenses, entertainment,
meals, or refreshments furnished in connection with public events, appearance,
or ceremonies.
   (F)   No city officer shall be deemed in conflict with these provisions if,
by reason of his or her participation in the enactment of any ordinance,
resolution, or other matter required to be voted upon or which is subject to
executive approval or veto, no material or monetary gain accrues to him or her
as a member of any business, profession, occupation, or group, to any greater
extent than any gain could reasonably be expected to accrue to any other member
of such business, profession, occupation, or group.
(Ord. 09, 1994 Series, passed 11-28-1994)
§ 37.033 MISUSE OF CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION.
   (A)   No city officer or employee shall knowingly use, or allow to be used,
his or her public office or employment, or any information, not generally
available to the members of the public, which he or she receives or acquires in
the course of and by reason of his or her office or employment, for the purpose
of securing financial gain for himself or herself, any member of this immediate
family, or any business organization with which he or she is associated or
anyone else.
   (B)   Information shall be deemed “not generally available to the members of
the public,” if it is not subject to disclosure pursuant to the Kentucky Open
Records Act contained in KRS 61.872 to 61.884, at the time of its use or
disclosure.
(Ord. 09, 1994 Series, passed 11-28-1994)
§ 37.034 REPRESENTATION OF INTERESTS BEFORE CITY GOVERNMENT.
   (A)   No city officer or employee or business organization in which he or
she has an interest shall represent any person, party, or business, other than
the city in connection with any cause, proceeding, application, or other matter
pending before the city or any city agency.
   (B)   No elected city officer shall be prohibited from making an inquiry for
information or providing assistance on behalf of a constituent, if no fee,
reward or other thing of value is promised to, given to or accepted by the
officer or a member of his or her immediate family, whether directly or
indirectly, in return therefor.
   (C)   Nothing shall prohibit any city government officer or employee, or
members of his or her immediate family, from representing himself or herself,
or themselves in negotiations or proceedings concerning his or her, or their,
own interests.
(Ord. 09, 1994 Series, passed 11-28-1994)
§ 37.035 USE OF CITY PROPERTY, EQUIPMENT, AND PERSONNEL.
   No city official or employee shall use city facilities, personnel,
equipment, or supplies for private purposes, except to the extent such are
lawfully available to the public.
(Ord. 09, 1994 Series, passed 11-28-1994)
§ 37.036 CONFLICTS OF INTEREST IN CONTRACTS.
   (A)   No officer or employee of the city or any city agency shall directly
or through others undertake, execute, hold or enjoy, in whole or in part, any
contract made, entered into, awarded, or granted by the city or a city agency,
except as follows:
      (1)   The prohibition in this division (A) above shall not apply to
contracts entered into before an elected officer filed as a candidate for city
office, before an appointed officer was appointed to a city or city agency
office, or before an employee was hired by the city or city agency. However, if
any contract entered into by a city or city agency officer or employee before
he or she became a candidate, was appointed to office, or was hired as an
employee, is renewable after he or she becomes a candidate, assumes to the
appointed office, or is hired as an employee, then the prohibition in this
division(A) shall apply to the renewal of the contract.
      (2)   The prohibition in this division (A) shall not apply if the
contract is awarded after public notice and competitive bidding, unless the
officer or employee is authorized to participate in establishing the contract
specifications, awarding the contract, or managing contract performance after
the contract is awarded. If the officer or employee has any of the authorities
set forth in the preceding sentence, then the officer or employee shall have no
interest in the contract, unless the requirements set forth in division (A)(3)
below are satisfied.
      (3)   The prohibition in this division (A) shall not apply in any case
where the following requirements are satisfied:
         (a)   The specific nature of the contract transaction and the nature
of the officer’s or employee’s interest in the contract are publicly disclosed
at a meeting of the governing body of the city or city agency;
         (b)   The disclosure is made a part of the official record of the
governing body of the city or city agency before the contract is executed;
         (c)   A finding is made by the governing body of the city or city
agency that the contract with the officer or employee is in the best interests
of the public and the city or city agency because of price, limited supply or
other specific reasons; and
         (d)   The finding is made a part of the official record of the
governing body of the city or city agency before the contract is executed.
   (B)   Any violation of this section shall constitute a Class A misdemeanor,
and upon conviction, the Court may void any contract entered into in violation
of this section. Additionally, a violation of this section shall be grounds for
removal from office or employment with the city in accordance with any
applicable provisions of state law and ordinances, rules, or regulations of the
city.
(Ord. 09, 1994 Series, passed 11-28-1994)
§ 37.037 NEPOTISM.
   After the effective date of this subchapter, only one family member of a
city officer may be initially employed or appointed to a position in a city
government agency in the same city in which the officer serves. This provision
shall not apply to a public officer’s family members who, on the date of the
officers’s election or appointment, has been employed for at least six months
in the same city in which the officer serves.
(Ord. 09, 1994 Series, passed 11-28-1994)
§ 37.038 FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE.
   (A)   The following individuals shall be required to file a financial
disclosure statement:
      (1)   Elected officers; and
      (2)   Officers and employees with procurement authority exceeding $500
per purchase.
   (B)   The financial disclosure statement should include the following
information:
      (1)   Name of elected officer;
      (2)   Current business address, business telephone number, and home
address of filer;
      (3)   Title of the elected officer’s office;
      (4)   Occupations of elected officer’s spouse;
      (5)   Positions held by the elected officer’s spouse in any business
organization or nonprofit entity from which the filer or any member of the
filer’s immediate family received compensation in excess of $5,000 during the
preceding calendar year, and the name, address, and telephone number of the
business organization or nonprofit entity;
      (6)   Name, address, and telephone number of each source of income of the
elected officer and spouse from within the commonwealth which exceeded $5,000
during the preceding calendar year;
      (7)   Name, address, and telephone number of each business organization
located within the commonwealth in which the elected official and spouse had an
interest of $5,000 at fair market value or 5% ownership interest or more during
the preceding year; and
      (8)   The location and type (commercial, residential, or agricultural) of
all real property within the city, other than the filer’s primary residence, in
which the filer or any member of the filer’s immediate family had an interest
of $5,000 or more during the past year.
   (C)   Any officer or employee, or any member of his or her immediate family,
or the city government who shall have any private financial interest, directly
or indirectly, in any contract or matter pending before or within any
department or agency or the city government shall disclose such private
interest to the city or the local Ethics Commission.
(Ord. 09, 1994 Series, passed 11-28-1994)
§ 37.039 FILING OF FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE.
   (A)   The financial disclosure statement shall be on a form setting forth
the information required in §
37.038 (
Appendix A at the end of this chapter). The financial disclosure statement
shall be filed annually by elected officers and employees no later that July 1.
   (B)   Each financial disclosure statement shall be signed and dated by the
individual filing the statement of financial interest.
   (C)   All financial disclosure statements shall be open records. Each
individual or organization requesting to view financial disclosure statements
shall complete a form giving full name, address, telephone number, and
organization/individual represented if other than individual making request.
One copy of this form shall be attached to the statement so requested and shall
become a part of the record.
   (D)   The financial disclosure statements shall be filed with the City
Ethics Commission.
(Ord. 09, 1994 Series, passed 11-28-1994)
§ 37.040 NONCOMPLIANCE WITH FILING REQUIREMENT.
   The City Ethics Commission shall notify by certified mail each person
required to file a statement of financial interests who fails to file the
statement by the due date, files an incomplete statement, or files a statement
in a form other than that prescribed by the Commission. The notice shall
specify the type of failure or delinquency, shall establish a date by which the
failure or delinquency shall be remedied, and shall advise the person of the
penalties for a violation.
(Ord. 09, 1994 Series, passed 11-28-1994) Penalty, see §
37.999
§ 37.041 CITY ETHICS COMMISSION CREATED.
   (A)   There is hereby created an Ethics Commission which shall have the
authorities, duties, and responsibilities as set forth in this subchapter to
enforce the provisions of this subchapter.
   (B)   The City Ethics Commission shall consist of three members. The members
shall be citizen members who hold no elected or appointed city offices. The
members shall be appointed by the Mayor with the approval of the City Council.
The Mayor shall designate one member as Chairperson. Members
shall receive no compensation but may be reimbursed all necessary expenses. The
terms of members shall be staggered and no longer than four years. No person
shall serve on the Ethics Commission who has not reached the age of 18 and who
is not a resident of the city.
   (C)   Vacancies on the Ethics Commission shall be filled within 60 days by
the Mayor subject to approval of the City Council. If a vacancy is not filled
by the Mayor within 60 days, the remaining members of the Commission shall fill
the vacancy. All vacancies shall be filled for the remainder of the unexpired
term.
   (D)   The Mayor with the approval of the City Council may appoint two
alternate members of the Ethics Commission who may be called upon to serve when
any regular member of the Commission is unable to discharge his or her duties.
An alternate member shall be appointed for a term of one year. Alternate
members shall be subject to all of the requirements of this subchapter that
apply to regular members.
(Ord. 09, 1994 Series, passed 11-28-1994; Ord. 10, 1994 Series, passed 12-31-
1994)
§ 37.042 POWERS AND DUTIES OF THE ETHICS COMMISSION.
   (A)   The Commission shall have jurisdiction over the administration of this
code and enforcement of the civil penalties prescribed by this subchapter.
   (B)   The Commission may receive and initiate complaints; initiate
investigations on its own motion; and conduct investigations, inquiries, and
hearings concerning any matter covered by this subchapter.
   (C)   The Commission may administer oaths; issue subpoenas; compel the
attendance of witnesses and the production of papers, books, accounts,
documents, and testimony; and have the deposition of witnesses taken in the
manner prescribed by the Kentucky Rules of Civil Procedure for taking
depositions in civil actions.
   (D)   The Commission may render advisory opinions stating whether or not a
given set of facts and circumstances constitute a violation of any provision of
this subchapter.
   (E)   The Commission shall prescribe and provide forms for reports,
statements, notices, and other documents required by this subchapter.
   (F)   The Commission shall determine whether the required statements and
reports have been filed and, if filed, whether they conform with the
requirements of this subchapter. The Commission shall promptly give notice to
the filer to correct or explain any omission or deficiency.
   (G)   The Commission may retain private counsel at the expense of the city
if the City Attorney has an actual or potential conflict. The salary of said
Attorney shall be set at the rate applicable to the City Attorney or at a sum
set by the City Council.
   (H)   Meetings of the Commission shall be held, as necessary, upon the call
of the Chairperson or at the written request of a majority of the members.
   (I)   The presence of three or more members shall constitute a quorum and
the affirmative vote of all members shall be necessary for any official action
to be taken. Any member of the Ethics Commission who has a conflict of interest
with respect to any matter to be considered by the Commission shall disclose
the nature of the conflict, shall disqualify himself or herself from voting on
the matter, and shall then notify the Mayor who shall direct that an alternate
serve until the conflicting matter is resolved. All alternates must be approved
consistent with §
37.041(D).
   (J)   Minutes shall be kept for all proceedings of the Ethics Commission and
the vote of each member on any issue decided by the Board shall be recorded in
the minutes.
(Ord. 09, 1994 Series, passed 11-28-1994)
§ 37.043 FILING AND INVESTIGATION OF COMPLAINTS.
   (A)   All complaints alleging any violation of the provisions of this
subchapter shall be submitted to the Ethics Commission, or the administrative
official designated by the Ethics Commission. All complaints shall be in
writing, signed by the complainant, and shall meet any other requirements
established by the Ethics Commission. The Ethics Commission shall acknowledge
receipt or a complaint to the complainant within ten working days from the date
of receipt. The Commission shall forward within ten working days to each
officer or employee of the city or city agency who is the subject of the
complaint a copy of the complaint and a general statement of the applicable
provisions of this subchapter.
   (B)   Within 30 days of the receipt of a proper complaint, the Ethics
Commission shall conduct a preliminary inquiry concerning the allegations
contained in the complaint. The Commission shall afford a person who is the
subject of the complaint an opportunity to respond to the allegations in the
complaint. The person shall have the right to be represented by counsel, to
appear and be heard under oath, and to offer evidence in response to the
allegations.
   (C)   All proceedings and records relating to a preliminary inquiry being
conducted by the Board of Ethics shall be confidential until a final
determination is made by the Ethics Commission, except;
      (1)   The Commission may turn over to the Commonwealth’s Attorney or
County Attorney evidence which may be used in criminal proceedings.
      (2)   If the complainant or alleged violator publicly disclose the
existence of a preliminary inquiry, the Commission may publicly confirm the
existence of the inquiry, and, at its discretion, make public any documents
which were issued to either party.
   (D)   The Ethics Commission shall make a determination based on its
preliminary inquiry whether the complaint is within its jurisdiction and, if
so, whether it alleges a minimal factual basis to constitute a violation of
this subchapter. If the Commission concludes that the complaint is outside of
its
jurisdiction, frivolous or without factual basis, the Commission shall
immediately terminate the inquiry, reduce the conclusion to writing, and
transmit a copy of its decision to the complainant and to all officers or
employees against whom the complaint was filed.
   (E)   If the Ethics Commission concludes, based upon its preliminary
inquiry, that the complaint is within its jurisdiction and contains allegations
sufficient to establish a minimal factual basis to constitute a violation, the
Board shall notify the officer or employee who is the subject of the complaint
and may:
      (1)   Due to mitigating circumstances such as, lack of significant
economic advantage or gain by the officer or employee, lack of economic loss to
the city government, issue, in writing, a confidential reprimand to the officer
or employee concerning the alleged violation and provide a copy of the
confidential reprimand to the City Council and city agency, if any; and
      (2)   Initiate a hearing to determining whether there has been a
violation.
   (F)   Any person who knowingly files with the Ethics Commission a false
complaint alleging a violation of any provision of this subchapter by an
officer or employee of the city or any city agency shall be guilty of a Class A
misdemeanor.
(Ord. 09, 1994 Series, passed 11-28-1994) Penalty §
37.999
§ 37.044 NOTICE OF HEARINGS.
   If the Ethics Commission determines that a hearing regarding allegations
contained in the complaint is necessary, the Commission shall issue an order
setting the matter for a hearing within 30 days of the date the order is
issued, unless the alleged violator petitions for and the Board consents to a
later date. The order setting the matter for hearing, along with a copy of any
pertinent regulations of the Board relating to the hearing shall be sent to the
alleged violator within 24 hours of the time the order setting a hearing is
issued.
(Ord. 09, 1994 Series, passed 11-28-1994)
§ 37.045 HEARING PROCEDURE.
   (A)   The Kentucky Rules of Civil Procedure and the Kentucky Rules of
Evidence shall not apply to hearings conducted by the Ethics Commission;
however, the hearings shall be conducted in accordance with this section and in
accordance with any additional rules and regulations adopted by the Board so as
to afford all parties the full range of due process rights required by the
nature of the proceedings.
   (B)   Prior to the commencement of the hearing, the alleged violator, or his
or her representative, shall have a reasonable opportunity to examine all
documents and records obtained or prepared by the Commission in connection with
the matter to be heard. The Board shall inform the alleged violator, or his or
her representative, of any exculpatory evidence in its possession.
   (C)   All testimony in a Commission hearing shall be taken under oath,
administered by the presiding officer. All parities shall have the right to
call and examine witnesses, to introduced exhibits, to cross-examine witnesses,
to submit evidence, and to be represented by counsel. All witnesses shall have
the right to be represented by counsel.
   (D)   Any person whose name is mentioned during the hearing and who may be
adversely affected thereby may appear personally before the Commission, with or
without counsel, to give a statement regarding the adverse mention, or may file
a written statement regarding the adverse mention for incorporation into the
record of the proceeding.
   (F)   All hearings of the Ethics Commission shall be public, unless the
members vote to go into executive session in accordance with KRS 61.810.
   (G)   After the conclusion of the hearing, the Ethics Commission shall, as
soon as practicable, begin deliberations in executive session for the purpose
of reviewing the evidence before it and making a determination whether a
violation of this subchapter has been proven. Within 30 days after completion
of the hearing, the Commission shall issue a written report of its findings and
conclusions.
   (H)   If the Commission concludes in its report that no violation of this
subchapter has occurred, it shall immediately send written notice of this
determination to the officer or employee who was the subject of the complaint
and to the party who filed the complaint.
   (I)   If the Ethics Commission concludes in its report that in consideration
of the evidence produced at the hearing there is clear and convincing proof of
a violation of this subchapter, the Commission may:
      (1)   Issue an order requiring the violator to cease and desist the
violation;
      (2)   In writing, publicly reprimand the violator for the violations and
provide a copy of the reprimand to the City Council;
      (3)   In writing, recommend to the City Council that the violator be
sanctioned as recommended by the Board, which may include a recommendation for
discipline or dismissal, or removal from office;
      (4)   Issue an order requiring the violator to pay a civil penalty of not
more than $500; and
      (5)   Refer evidence of criminal violations of this subchapter or state
laws to the County Attorney or Commonwealth’s Attorney of the jurisdiction for
prosecution.
(Ord. 09, 1994 Series, passed 11-28-1994)
§ 37.046 APPEALS.
   Any persons who are found guilty of a violation of any provision of this
subchapter by the Ethics Commission may appeal the finding to the Circuit Court
of the county within 30 days after the date of the final action by the
Commission by filing a petition with the Court against the Commission. The
Commission shall transmit to the Clerk of the Court all evidence considered by
the Commission at the public hearing.
(Ord. 09, 1994 Series, passed 11-28-1994)
§ 37.047 LIMITATION OF ACTIONS.
   Except when the period of limitation is otherwise established by state law,
an action for a violation of this subchapter must be brought within one year
after the violation is discovered.
(Ord. 09, 1994 Series, passed 11-28-1994)
§ 37.048 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This subchapter shall take full force and effect immediately upon
publication as required by KRS 83A.060.
(Ord. 09, 1994 Series, passed 11-28-1994)
COMPREHENSIVE DRUG-AND ALCOHOL-FREE WORKPLACE
§ 37.060 PURPOSE AND GOALS.
   (A)   The city is committed to protecting the safety, health, and well being
of all employees of the city and other individuals who make use of the city’s
facilities. Likewise, the city is committed to ensuring its facilities provide
a safe and healthy environment for the conduct of city business for all of the
citizenry of the city. Additionally, the city wishes to accomplish the
following goals with the establishment of this policy:
      (1)   As a recipient of federal funds, to comply with the Drug-Free
Workplace Act of 1988, being 41 U.S.C. § 81;
      (2)   To comply with Federal Department of Transportation regulations
regarding employees holding commercial driver’s licenses (CDL);
      (3)   To reduce the number of accidents and injuries to persons and
property;
      (4)   To reduce absenteeism and tardiness, and to increase the
productivity of all employees of the city;
      (5)   To help ensure the reputation of the city and its employees
throughout the community; and
      (6)   To provide leadership in helping to stem the tide of the abuse of
alcohol, illicit substances, and illegal drugs throughout our community and the
commonwealth as a whole.
   (B)   It is with these goals in mind the city issues this policy, declaring
itself a drug-and alcohol-free workplace and hereby issues these accompanying
rules regarding drug-and alcohol use in the workplace for the city.
(Ord. 07, 2011 Series, passed 5-31-2011)
§ 37.061 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACCIDENT. An unexpected and undesirable event resulting in damage or harm.
For the purposes of this policy, the resulting damage or harm may constitute an
injury that requires off-site medical attention be given to a person or damage
to a vehicle or other property.
   ALCOHOL. Any intoxicating agent in beverage alcohol, ethyl alcohol, or other
low molecular weight alcohols, including methyl or isopropyl alcohol. This
includes over-the-counter and prescribed medications that contain more than
0.5% of alcohol by volume.
   ALCOHOL TESTING. The testing for alcohol content by an evidential breath-
testing device (EBT) or other Department of Transportation (DOT) approved
device. DOT approved devices and procedures will also be used for non-DOT
alcohol tests.
   DRUG. A controlled substance as defined in KRS 218A.010C(6) and as
established in 902 KAR Ch. 55, including:
      (1)   Amphetamines;
      (2)   Cannabanoids (THC);
      (3)   Cocaine;
      (4)   Opiates;
      (5)   Phencyclidine (PCP);
      (6)   Benzodiazepines;
      (7)   Proproxyphene;
      (8)   Methaqualone;
      (9)   Methadone;
      (10)   Barbiturates;
      (11)   Synthetic narcotics;
      (12)   Illicit substances as defined in KRS 351.010; or
      (13)   Volatile substances as defined in KRS 217.900(1).
   DRUG OR ALCOHOL REHABILITATION PROGRAM. A service provider that provides
confidential, timely, and expert identification, assessment, treatment, and
resolution of employee drug or alcohol abuse.
   DRUG TEST or TEST. A chemical, biological, or physical instrumental analysis
administered by a qualified laboratory, for the purpose of determining the
presence or absence of a drug or its metabolites or alcohol pursuant to
standards, procedures, and protocols established by the U.S. Department of
Health and Human Services Substances Abuse and Mental Health Services
Administration (SAMHSA).
   EMPLOYEE ASSISTANCE PROGRAM (SAP). An established program providing:
      (1)   Professional assessment of employee personal concerns;
      (2)   Confidential and timely services to identify employee alcohol and
drug abuse;
      (3)   Referrals of employees with alcohol or drug abuse issues for
appropriate diagnosis, treatment, and assistance; and
      (4)   Follow-up services for employees who participate in a drug or
alcohol rehabilitation program and are recommended for monitoring after
returning to work.
   HEIGHTENED SAFETY AWARENESS LEVEL SAFETY SENSITIVE) POSITIONS (HASL).
Positions involving special, dangerous, and skilled activities and those that
would involve exceptional duty to community citizens in the area of public
safety.
   ILLICIT SUBSTANCE. Those prescription drugs used illegally or in excess of
therapeutic levels as well as illegal drugs.
   MEDICAL REVIEW OFFICER (MRO). A licensed physician with knowledge of
substance abuse disorders, laboratory testing, and chain of custody collection
procedures, and who has the ability to verify positive, confirmed test results.
The MRO shall possess the necessary medical training to interpret and evaluate
a positive test result in relation to the person’s medical history or any other
relevant biomedical information.
   QUALIFIED LABORATORY. A laboratory certified in accordance with the National
Laboratory Certification Program (NLCP) by the United States Department of
Health and Human Services’ Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services
Administration (SAMHSA). The city currently uses King’s Daughters Medical
Center as its laboratory of choice for the collection of urine samples in the
case of controlled substances and for the administration of breathalyzer tests
for alcohol concentration. All urine samples are forwarded to a laboratory of
the city’s choosing that is approved by the U.S. Department of Health and
Mental Services Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration
(SAMHSA) under its National Laboratory Certification Program (NLCP).
   REASONABLE SUSPICION. A belief that an employee is using or has used drugs
or alcohol in violation of this policy, drawn from specific, objective, and
articulable facts and reasonable inferences drawn from those facts in light of
experience, training, or education.
   REFUSAL TO SUBMIT. The failure to provide adequate breath for testing
without a valid medical explanation after the employee has received notice of
the requirement for breath testing; or, the failure to provide adequate urine
for controlled substances testing without a valid medical explanation after the
employee receives notice of the requirement of urine testing; and/or engaging
in conduct that clearly obstructs the testing process.
   SUBSTANCE ABUSE PROFESSIONAL. A licensed or certified psychologist, social
worker, employee assistance professional, or additional counselor with
knowledge of and clinical experience in the diagnosis and treatment of alcohol
and controlled substance-related disorders.
   VOLATILE SUBSTANCE. Any glue, cement, paint, or other substance as described
in KRS 217.900(1).
(Ord. 07, 2011 Series, passed 5-31-2011)
§ 37.062 APPLICABILITY.
   (A)   This policy is intended to apply whenever anyone is representing or
conducting business for the city. Accordingly, this policy applies during all
working hours, while on call or paid standby, and while performing work on
behalf of the city while on or off city property. The policy applies to all
city employees with special provisions designated to those employees identified
as having responsibilities requiring a heightened safety awareness level
(HASL).
   (B)   Those “safety sensitive” positions identified as requiring a
heightened safety awareness level include but may not be limited to:
      (1)   Police officers;
      (2)   Emergency dispatchers and dispatch supervisors;
      (3)   Firefighters;
      (4)   Emergency medical technicians (EMT);
      (5)   Heavy equipment operators;
      (6)   Lifeguards;
      (7)   Personnel driving CDL regulated vehicles;
      (8)   Mechanics who work on these regulated vehicles;
      (9)   Heavy equipment operators;
      (10)   Aviation employees;
      (11)   Operators of non-CDL vehicles who transport senior citizens,
handicapped, and children; or
      (12)   Employees who supervise children and child related activities.
(Ord. 07, 2011 Series, passed 5-31-2011)
§ 37.063 POLICY REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Training.
      (1)   The city shall conduct substance abuse awareness training for all
employees. This substance abuse awareness training shall consists of the
following minimum requirements:
         (a)   Upon initial hire, each employee shall be provided a copy of and
will be asked to read the city’s drug-and alcohol-free workplace policy,
employees will also be asked to read and sign the Certification of
Acknowledgment - Drug-and Alcohol-Free Workplace Policies and Procedures form.
NOTE: Should the policy be amended, employees shall be provided with copies of
any change or modification and given an opportunity to ask questions and obtain
answers regarding any change in this policy;
         (b)   Initial training shall consist of at least one hour for all
employees;
         (c)   Annual refresher training shall be conducted for all employees
in substance abuse awareness and shall consist of no less than 30 minutes;
         (d)   All alcohol and substance abuse awareness training will include,
at a minimum, information concerning alcohol and drug testing policy and
procedures;
         (e)   The effects of alcohol and drug use on an individual’s health,
work, and personal life;
the disease of alcohol and drug addiction;
         (f)   Signs and symptoms of an alcohol or drug problem;
         (g)   The role of co-workers and supervisors in addressing alcohol and
substance abuse;
         (h)   Referrals to an employee assistance program; and
         (i)   Other issues regarding substance abuse awareness the city deems
necessary to include.
      (2)   Supervisory personnel, in addition to all of the above training,
shall receive an additional 30 minutes each year of alcohol and substance abuse
education and awareness training. This additional supervisory training will be
documented, using the supervisor training certification certificate. This
additional supervisory training shall consist of at least the following:
         (a)   Recognizing the signs of alcohol and substance abuse in the
workplace;
         (b)   How to document signs of employee alcohol and substance abuse;
         (c)   How to refer employees to an employee assistance program or
other alcohol and substance abuse treatment program;
         (d)   Legal and practical aspects of reasonable suspicion testing for
the presence of drugs and alcohol; and
         (e)   Other issues regarding a supervisor’s responsibilities in a
drug-free workplace, which the city deems necessary to include.
      (3)   NOTE: All substance abuse awareness training will be conducted by
qualified trainers supplied to the city by the Kentucky League of Cities
Insurance Services Loss Control Department. This training may be presented on
video or through the Kentucky League of Cities “Online University Program” and
shall contain all information required for training all employees and
supervisory personnel as detailed in 803 KAR 25:280.
   (B)   Drug-and alcohol testing. The city shall administer alcohol and drug
tests in circumstances that include but may not be limited to the following.
      (1)   Reasonable suspicion testing.
         (a)   A reasonable suspicion test shall be based on a belief that an
employee is using or has used drugs or alcohol in violation of this policy,
drawn from specific objective facts and reasonable inferences drawn from those
facts in light of experience, training, or education. The reasonable suspicion
testing shall be based upon:
            1.   While at work, direct observations of drug or alcohol use or
of the physical symptoms or manifestations of being under the influence of a
drug or alcohol;
            2.   While at work, abnormal conduct, erratic behavior, or a
significant deterioration in work performance;
            3.   A report of drug or alcohol use provided by a reliable and
credible source;
            4.   Evidence an individual has tampered with a drug or alcohol
test during employment with the city;
            5.   Information an employee has caused, contributed to, or been
involved in an accident while at work; and/or
            6.   Evidence an employee has used, possessed, sold, solicited, or
transferred illegal or illicit drugs or used alcohol while on the city’s
premises or while operating the city’s vehicle, machinery, or equipment.
         (b)   The Director of Human Resource shall be notified immediately of
any indication of reasonable suspicion. Both the observing department
supervisor and the Director of Human Resources or his or her representative (if
available) will review the policies and procedures herein and if necessary make
arrangements with a testing facility of the city’s choosing to conduct
reasonable suspicion drug and/or alcohol testing as soon as possible. If a
representative from the Human Resources Department is not available, the
observing supervisor shall obtain the assistance of another city supervisor or
other credible and reliable source and together they shall complete the
reasonable suspicion observation form, and forward it to the Director of Human
Resources. If, after completing the form, it is determined there is, in fact,
reasonable suspicion that the employee is under the influence of drugs and/or
alcohol, the observing supervisor or his or her representative will notify the
employee and accompany him or her to the testing site.
         (c)   When a reasonable suspicion test is ordered, the employee must
submit to testing immediately. The observing supervisor and/or designee shall
remain at the testing site with the employee being tested, until testing is
completed. Any employee who is tested for reasonable suspicion shall be placed
on leave with pay until the results of the test are known. After submitting to
the drug and/or
alcohol test, the employee may not return to work until the results of the test
are known and only then if the results are negative. Only a representative of
the Department of Human Resources may order a reasonable suspicion test.
      (2)   Pre-employment testing.
         (a)   Breath alcohol and urine drug testing shall be required of all
new hire applicants after his, or her, or their receipt of a conditional offer
of employment. After receiving the conditional offer of employment, applicants
will have 48 hours to submit to testing at a testing facility of the city’s
choosing. The city requires every newly hired employee test free of controlled
substances and have a breath alcohol concentration of not more than 0.02. Each
offer of employment by the city shall be conditional upon the passing of a
controlled substance and alcohol tests. Refusal by an applicant for employment
with the city to take the controlled substance test and/or alcohol test will
result in the conditional offer of employment being withdrawn. All testing
under this policy will be in accordance with testing protocols described
elsewhere in this policy.
            1.   An applicant with a confirmed positive test for controlled
substances and/or alcohol in a concentration of 0.02 or greater, which is not
legitimately explained to and accepted by a medical review officer (MRO) of the
city’s choosing, will not be considered for employment.
            2.   Any applicant who fails a controlled substance test and/or
alcohol test may not be considered for employment for a period of no less than
two years. The time period shall start on the date of the actual test.
            3.   Any applicant who refuses to take a controlled substance test
and/or alcohol test will be disqualified from future consideration for
employment.
            4.   Any applicant who tampers with, or attempts to tamper with, a
urine specimen in any manner shall be disqualified form current and future
consideration of employment with the city.
            5.   An applicant whose positive test is confirmed and upheld by
the medical review officer (MRO) may request the same sample be retested at his
or her own expense at a city approved laboratory.
         (b)   Individuals undergoing pre-employment testing shall not begin
official employment with the city until after all test results are received and
shown to be negative. Upon receipt of the test result, positive or negative,
the Department of Human Resources shall inform the appropriate department head
of the results.
      (3)   Random testing.
         (a)   Employees in high safety awareness level (HSAL) position will be
required to participate in a statistically valid, unannounced random selection
process, which will subject them to mandatory drug and/or alcohol testing. This
category of testing will conduct random tests for alcohol
at a rate of no more than 10% for all HSAL positions, with the exception of
positions in which commercial driver’s license (CDL) is required, in which case
testing must be done at a rate of 25% for alcohol annually to satisfy
Department of Transportation (DOT) requirements. In the case of random testing
for drug use, HSAL positions will be tested at a rate of no more than 20% with
the exception of positions in which a CDL is required, in which case testing
must be done at a rate of 50% annually to satisfy DOT requirements. All
employees in federally regulated HSAL positions shall be selected from a pool
that is separate from the random selection pool for other non-federally
regulated HSAL positions.
         (b)   The Department of Human Resources shall utilize a third party to
conduct the random selection of HSAL employees, including employees holding a
CDL, to be tested. This random testing shall be unannounced and will take place
throughout each calendar year. Once an employee is notified he or she has been
selected for testing, the employee must proceed immediately to the testing site
of the city’s choosing.
         (c)   NOTE: Employees in non-HAL positions will not be included in the
random selection pool. However, non-HAL employees will be subject to testing
upon reasonable suspicion of possible alcohol or drug use. Procedures and
protocols for reasonable suspicion testing as described elsewhere in this
policy will apply in their case.
      (4)   Post-accident testing. Drug and alcohol testing will be conducted
following an employee’s involvement in an accident on or off of the city’s
premises while on duty, or in the course of employment for the city, which
requires off-site medical attention be administered to a person. An accident
not necessarily requiring off-site medical attention be given to a person, but
which results in property damage of $500 or more shall be deemed a “qualifying
event” for requiring post-accident testing. Drug and alcohol testing will be
required of the employee(s) who were actively involved in the qualifying event.
         (a)   Qualifying event exception.
            1.   Due to varying types of accident cause, all accidents
categorized as a “qualifying event” may not require post-accident testing.
Exceptions to the “qualifying event” for requiring post-accident drug and
alcohol testing will include, but may not be limited to the following types of
accidents:
               a.   Injuries whose onset is cumulative or gradual, such as
carpel tunnel syndrome, progressive hearing loss, mental disorders, dermatitis,
respiratory disease, skin disorders, and the like;
               b.   Injuries where the employee can be completely discounted as
the contributing factor (i.e., injuries caused by a third party or some other
uncontrollable force or event, i.e., weather, insects, and the like); and
               c.   Injuries where the employee can be completely discounted as
the major contributing factor or those injures occurring during physical
fitness or a training event, in which the employee did everything within reason
to avoid the injury accident (i.e., was performing training as instructed).
            2.   In each case, the Director of Human Resources or his or her
designee shall determine the necessity of drug and alcohol testing and shall
communicate such testing with the involved employee and the employee’s
respective department head. The Human Resources Department shall coordinate all
required tests with the appropriate medical facilities.
            3.   An employee involved in an accident while on an out-of-town
assignment, shall notify their Department Director or the Director’s designee
as soon as possible, but no later than two hours after the accident occurred.
The Department Director shall notify the Human Resource Department Director to
discuss possible drug/alcohol testing requirements.
         (b)   Other qualifying event. The Department Director or his or her
designee may request controlled substance/alcohol testing when an employee
caused or cannot be completely discounted from causing a vehicular or any other
type of accident in which a safety violation occurs and death, serious bodily
injury, or major property damage did result or could have resulted. The
Director of Human Resources along with the employee’s supervisor will be
responsible for determining whether a safety violation has occurred. In each
case, the Human Resource Director or his or her designee shall determine the
necessity of drug and alcohol testing and shall communicate such testing with
the involved employee and the employee’s department head. If a post accident
controlled substance/alcohol test is required, a confirmed positive test result
will result in the employee’s immediate termination.
      (5)   Follow-up testing. Any employee returning to work from successful
completion of an employee assistance program (EAP) for drug and/or alcohol
problems, or a drug and/or alcohol rehabilitation program, shall be required to
undergo one year of quarterly drug and alcohol testing. The frequency of the
follow-up testing shall consider recommendations of any involved substance
abuse professional (SAP), but shall not be less than once per quarter (every
three months) for one year. All follow-up testing may be requested at any time
and shall be unannounced.
      (6)   Return-to-duty testing. In all cases, it shall be at the discretion
of the city as to whether to allow an employee who has violated any provision
of this policy to continue in the city’s employment. In the event an employee
who has tested positive for a controlled substance(s) or for alcohol without a
valid medical reason for a positive test, as confirmed by a medical review
officer (MRO) of the city’s choosing, is allowed to enter a controlled
substance/alcohol abuse rehabilitation program, the employee may be allowed to
return to work only under the following circumstances:
         (a)   The employee may resume regular duties only after the employee
tests negative for an alcohol and/or controlled substance test administered by
the city-approved laboratory and can provide a release to return to work from
an appropriate substance abuse treatment facility or confirmation of continued
and ongoing participation in a city recognized substance abuse assistance
program. An
employee must test negative within a reasonable period of time from receipt of
the initial test results not to exceed 45 days. Any repeat occurrence of
substance abuse or violation of any other aspect of this subchapter will result
in immediate termination.
         (b)   Prior to returning to work, the employee shall be required to
meet with the Director of Human Resources or his or her designee to receive an
explanation of the terms of continued employment; and to sign a written return-
to-work agreement detailing the terms under which the employee will be allowed
to return to work. Such agreement shall stipulate the employee, at the city’s
request, may be required at any time, to submit to interview and/or evaluation
by the professional staff at an appropriate chemical dependency treatment
facility approved by the city’s Employee Assistance Program (EAP).The return-
to-work agreement will also stipulate the employee be required to submit to
unannounced controlled substance and/or alcohol testing for up to 12 months
after resuming duties.
   (C)   Testing protocol. The collection and administration of drug and
alcohol tests shall follow all standards, procedures, and protocols set forth
by the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services Substance Abuse and Mental
Health Administration (SAMHS). Test results will be obtained by a qualified
laboratory as defined elsewhere in this policy and results shall undergo a
medical review as follows.
      (1)   All test results shall be submitted for medical review by a medical
review officer (MRO) of the city’s choosing, who shall consider the medical
history of the employee or applicant, as well as relevant biomedical
information.
      (2)   If there is a positive test result, the employee or applicant will
be given an opportunity to report to the MRO the use of any prescription or
over-the-counter medication.
      (3)   If the MRO determines there is a legitimate medical explanation for
a positive test result, the MRO may certify the test results do not indicate
the unauthorized use of alcohol or a controlled substance(s).
      (4)   If the MRO determines, after appropriate review, there is not a
medical explanation for the positive test result other than the unauthorized
use of alcohol or a prohibited drug, the MRO shall refer the individual tested
to the Human Resources Department for further proceedings in accordance with
the city’s drug-free workplace policy.
      (5)   NOTE: MRO determinations concerning the use of alcohol or a
controlled substance shall comply with all procedures outlined in the U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services Substance Abuse and Mental Health
Services Administration (SAMHSA) “Medical Review Officer Manual for Federal
Agency Drug Testing Program.”
   (D)   Testing process.
      (1)   Any employee who has been ordered to undergo testing for drugs and/
or alcohol shall receive an alcohol and/or drug test notification form.
      (2)   Employees shall report to the collection site of the city’s
choosing immediately after being provided the notification to test. In the case
of reasonable suspicion testing, a supervisor or designee shall escort the
employee to the collection site.
      (3)   Drug testing will be conducted by urine sample while alcohol
testing will be conducted using a breath alcohol testing/screening device. Drug
and alcohol analysis will be performed by a trained technician. All testing
shall follow the prescribed standards, procedures, and protocols set forth by
the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services’ Substance Abuse and Mental
Health Services Administration (SAMHSA).
      (4)   To ensure the test specimen is actually that of the donor,
collection site staff will require positive identification of the test subject.
      (5)   Alcohol: The city shall require all tests for alcohol to be
performed by a certified breath alcohol technician (BAT).
      (6)   Drugs: An 11-panel urine test will be conducted and shall include
analysis of the following substances:
         (a)   Amphetamines;
         (b)   Cannabinoids/THC;
         (c)   Cocaine;
         (d)   Opiates;
         (e)   Phencyclidine (PCP);
         (f)   Benzodiazepines;
         (g)   Propoxyphene;
         (h)   Methaqualone;
         (i)   Methadone;
         (j)   Barbiturates;
         (k)   Synthetic narcotics and semi-synthetic; or
         (l)   Narcotics both of which categories include but may not be
limited to Oxycodone (Oxycoton.)
(Ord. 07, 2011 Series, passed 5-31-2011)
§ 37.064 PROHIBITED ACTIVITY.
   (A)   Prohibited activities involving the use of alcohol or controlled
substances are listed in division (B) below. Notwithstanding the following, in
all cases, the unlawful manufacture, distribution, dispensation possession, or
use of alcohol or a controlled or illicit substance as defined in KRS 351.010
(1)(l), which includes prescription drugs used illegally or in excess of
therapeutic levels; as well as illegal drugs, and the intentional misuse of
volatile substances as described in KRS 217.900(1) is strictly prohibited while
at work, while on city property, or while conducting city business while off
city property. In the case of illegal drugs, such use shall be reported to law
enforcement officials.
   (B)   The city reserves the right to define and interpret prohibited
activities that specifically include, but may not be limited to:
      (1)   Alcohol. Prohibited conduct involving the use of alcohol includes
the following:
         (a)   The performance of or being immediately available to perform
work duties while having an alcohol concentration greater than 0.02;
         (b)   The consumption of alcohol or products containing alcohol during
the performance of or being immediately available to perform work
responsibilities;
         (c)   Having in possession, alcohol or products containing alcohol
during the performance of or being immediately able to perform work
responsibilities. This includes the possession of medicines containing alcohol
(prescription or over-the-counter), unless the seal is unbroken and/or the
medication is prescribed by a licensed physician, and said physician has
confirmed the necessity of the employee’s said possession of the prescribed
substance containing alcohol and has confirmed the use of such substance will
not deter from the employee’s ability to safely perform assigned
responsibilities. In the latter case, a prescription drug notification form
must be on file with the Department of Human Resources. NOTE: Fire, EMT, and
police personnel functioning within the scope of their assigned duties shall be
considered exempt form this prohibition as deemed necessary by their respective
department heads;
         (d)   The performance of or being immediately available to perform
those responsibilities designated as requiring a heightened level of safety
awareness within four hours after using alcohol;
         (e)   The transportation of alcoholic beverages within city owned
vehicles or equipment;
         (f)   The use of alcohol for eight hours immediately following an
accident requiring a post-accident alcohol test or until a post-accident test
is administered, whichever occurs first;
         (g)   Refusal (which is defined elsewhere in this policy) to submit or
cooperate with any of the required testing types. NOTE: Alcohol includes any
intoxicating agent in beverage alcohol, methyl, and isopropyl alcohol, whether
used for medical purpose or not. Many over-the-counter and prescription
medications contain high percentages of alcohol;
         (h)   The operation of city-owned vehicle following consumption of
alcoholic beverages shall be considered a violation of this policy and shall
result in disciplinary action; and
         (i)   Alcoholic beverages in open and closed containers are strictly
prohibited in city-owned vehicles.
      (2)   Drugs or controlled substances. Prohibited conduct involving the
use of drugs or controlled substances includes, but may not be limited to, the
following.
         (a)   1.   Prescription and over-the-counter drugs are not prohibited
when taken in standard dosage and/or according to a physician’s prescription.
However, any employee taking prescribed or over-the-counter medications will,
in all cases, be responsible for consulting the prescribing physician and/or
pharmacist to ascertain whether the medication may interfere with safe
performance of his or her job duties. Prior to initiating usage after such
medications are prescribed, the employee shall submit a prescription drug
notification form to their immediate supervisor who shall in turn, submit the
notification form to the Department of Human Resources as soon as possible.
            2.   After receiving such form, the Human Resources Department
Director may request written medical authorization showing the employee may
possess/use such medication, it was used in the prescribed manner, and showing
the employee is fit to safely perform assigned duties. If the use of such
medication could compromise the safety of the employee, fellow employees, or
the public at large it is the employee’s responsibility to use appropriate
personnel procedures (e.g., call in sick, use leave, request change of duty,
and notify his or her supervisor) to avoid unsafe workplace practices. No
prescription drugs shall be brought onto city property, or consumed on city
property by anyone other than the individual for whom the drugs have been
prescribed by a licensed medical practitioner. The illegal or unauthorized use
of prescription drugs is strictly prohibited. It is a violation of the city’s
drug-free workplace policy to intentionally misuse and/or abuse prescription
medications.
            3.   Appropriate disciplinary action will be taken if job
performance deterioration and/or other accidents occur as the result of the
intentional misuse and/or abuse of prescription medication.
            4.   The city reserves the right to have a designated physician of
the city’s choosing to determine if a prescription drug or medication produces
effects that would be considered unacceptable in the performance of assigned
work duties. The City’s Physician has final determination on whether the
medication will have or is having an unacceptable effect on the employee’s
performance of duties. In such instances of temporary impediment to safe
performance of regular duties, the employee may be temporarily reassigned to
duties requiring a lesser safety awareness level if such duties are available.
            5.   All doctors’ statements and related medical information shall
be confidential and maintained in a separate medical file in the Human
Resources Department.
         (b)   Testing positive for any of the prohibited substances during the
performance of or upon being immediately available to perform work
responsibilities;
         (c)   The performance of or being immediately available to perform
work responsibilities while using any controlled substance, except when the use
is under the instructions of a physician who has advised the use will not
adversely affect the user’s ability to safely perform responsibilities as
assigned;
         (d)   Having in possession, drugs or controlled substances, except
when the use is under the instructions of a physician who has advised the use
will not adversely affect the user’s ability to safely perform responsibilities
as assigned during the performance of or being immediately available to perform
work responsibilities. NOTE: Fire, EMT, and Police Department personnel
functioning within the scope of their assigned duties shall be considered
exempt from this prohibition as deemed necessary by their respective department
heads;
         (e)   Refusal (as defined elsewhere in this policy) to cooperate with
any of the requested testing types; and
         (f)   Tampering with or attempting to alter, or actually altering a
test specimen is strictly prohibited and is grounds for immediate termination
from employment with the city.
      (3)   Volatile substances. The intentional misuse, manufacture, sale,
distribution, dispensation, or possession of a volatile substance as defined in
KRS 217.900, which includes any glue, cement, pain, or other substance
containing a solvent or chemical having the property of releasing toxic vapors
or fumes that when intentionally inhaled may cause a condition of intoxication,
inebriation, stupefaction, dulling of the brain or nervous system, or
distortion or disturbance of auditory, visual, or mental processes while at
work, while on city property, or while conducting city business while off city
property, is strictly prohibited and is considered cause for immediate
discipline, up to and including termination. Such misuse shall also be reported
to law enforcement officials.
(Ord. 07, 2011 Series, passed 5-31-2011)
§ 37.065 SEARCHES.
   (A)   When reasonable cause exists, the city reserves the right to conduct
unannounced searched for controlled substances or alcohol anywhere on city
property, including but not necessarily limited to:
      (1)   Lockers;
      (2)   Desks;
      (3)   File cabinets;
      (4)   City vehicles and equipment; and/or
      (5)   Stationary containers.
   (B)   All searches must be authorized and conducted under the direction of
the city’s Police Department. Employees who refuse to cooperate during such
unannounced searches of city property shall be subject to disciplinary action,
up to and including termination.
(Ord. 07, 2011 Series, passed 5-31-2011)
§ 37.066 CONSEQUENCES OF ENGAGING IN PROHIBITED CONDUCT: ALCOHOL.
   (A)   The first time an employee, as a result of a random, reasonable
suspicion, follow-up, or post-accident, test is found to have an alcohol
concentration between 0.02 and 0.039, disciplinary action, up to and including
termination, will be administered, depending upon the circumstances, including
the employee’s willingness to voluntarily resolve any medical or psychological
condition relating to the employee’s conduct and to seek evaluation,
counseling, and possible treatment or rehabilitation for alcohol related abuse.
   (B)   Any second offense, in which the employee’s test for alcohol indicates
a concentration above 0.02, is considered grounds for immediate termination.
(Ord. 07, 2011 Series, passed 5-31-2011)
§ 37.067 CONSEQUENCES OF ENGAGING IN PROHIBITED CONDUCT: DRUGS.
   Any employee who engages in prohibited conduct for drugs or controlled
substances and whose random, reasonable suspicion, follow-up, or post-accident
test result indicates a non-medical, or biomedical explanation for the result
as confirmed by the MRO, will be subject to disciplinary action, up to and
including termination from employment, depending upon the circumstances,
including the employees willingness to voluntarily resolve any medical or
psychological condition relating to the employee’s conduct and to seek
evaluation, counseling, and possible rehabilitation for the abuse of controlled
substances.
(Ord. 07, 2011 Series, passed 5-31-2011)
§ 37.068 CONSEQUENCES OF ENGAGING IN PROHIBITED CONDUCT: VOLATILE SUBSTANCES.
   Any employee who engages in prohibited conduct for volatile substances as
described elsewhere in this policy will be subject to disciplinary action up to
and including immediate termination of employment, depending on the
circumstances, including the employees willingness to voluntarily resolve any
medical or psychological condition relating to the employee’s conduct and to
seek evaluation, counseling, and possible treatment or rehabilitation for the
use of volatile substances.
(Ord. 07, 2011 Series, passed 5-31-2011)
§ 37.069 CONSEQUENCES OF REFUSAL TO SUBMIT TO AN ALCOHOL OR CONTROLLED
SUBSTANCE TEST.
   (A)   An employee is considered to have refused to submit to testing when he
or she:
      (1)   Fails to appear for any test within a reasonable time;
      (2)   Engages in conduct that clearly obstructs the testing process;
      (3)   Fails to remain at the testing site until the testing process is
complete;
      (4)   Fails to provide a urine specimen for drug testing or a breath
specimen for alcohol;
      (5)   Fails to provide enough urine for drug testing or an adequate
amount of breath for alcohol testing and there is no medical explanation for
the failure to produce;
      (6)   In the case of directly observed or monitored drug test collection,
the employee submitting the specimen fails to permit the observation or
monitoring of his or her provision of the specimen;
      (7)   Fails to or declines to take a second drug test when directed by an
employer or collector;
      (8)   Fails to undergo a medical examination or evaluation as directed by
the MRO as part of the verification process; and/or
      (9)   Fails to cooperate with any part of the testing process.
   (B)   Failure to submit to an alcohol or controlled substance test as
described above will result in immediate termination.
   (C)   A judgment of “refusal to submit” will not apply to pre-employment
testing, unless the applicant has begun the testing process and leaves or
engages in conduct that clearly obstructs the testing process.
(Ord. 07, 2011 Series, passed 5-31-2011)
§ 37.070 OFF-DUTY ALCOHOL, DRUG USE, AND/OR VOLATILE SUBSTANCE; INTENTIONAL
MISUSE; CALL BACK.
   (A)   In no way is it the intention of the city to interfere in the private
lives of its employees. However, all employees should be aware that an
employee’s off-duty use of alcohol, illegal use of controlled substances,
intentional misuse of prescription drugs, or intentional misuse of volatile
substances as described in this policy, which result in excessive absenteeism,
tardiness, or poor work performance will be subject to discipline, up to and
including termination of employment. Such employees may be subject to
counseling or treatment through the city’s Employee Assistance Program.
   (B)   The drug, alcohol, intentional misuse of prescription drugs, and the
intentional misuse of volatile substance prohibitions apply to employees who
are on call for any special operation exhibiting a likelihood of requiring an
employee to report to work (i.e., snow and ice removal). An employee who is
called back to work to perform duties involving a heightened safety awareness
level must report any:
      (1)   Off duty use of alcohol in the prior four hours; and
      (2)   Medically prescribed use of a controlled substance.
   (C)   Any employee who is aware of a possible callback situation that may be
reasonably expected, who engages in the off-duty use of alcohol, the illegal
use of controlled substances, or the intentional misuse of volatile substances
will be subject to disciplinary action.
(Ord. 07, 2011 Series, passed 5-31-2011)
§ 37.071 EMPLOYEE ASSISTANCE PROGRAM (EAP).
   (A)   Alcoholism and controlled substance addiction are recognized as
diseases responsive to proper treatment. The city shall establish an EAP by
either:
      (1)   Establishing the program as part of its internal personnel
services; or
      (2)   By contracting with an entity of its choosing that provides EAP
services.
   (B)   The EAP will include the following services as required by law:
      (1)   Professional assessment of employee personal concerns;
      (2)   Confidential and timely services to identify employee drug or
alcohol abuse;
      (3)   Referrals of employees for appropriate diagnosis, treatment, and
assistance with regard to employee alcohol or substance abuse; and
      (4)   Follow-up services for employees who participate in a drug or
alcohol rehabilitation program and are recommended for monitoring after
returning to work.
   (C)   These services will be provided regardless of race, color, religion,
national origin, disability, sex, or age.
(Ord. 07, 2011 Series, passed 5-31-2011)
§ 37.072 RECORDS RETENTION, RELEASE, AND CONFIDENTIALITY.
   (A)   The city shall maintain records of activities related to these drug-
free workplace policies and procedures. All employees records regarding drug or
alcohol testing are considered confidential and will be kept under controlled
access, separate and apart form the employees standard personnel file. Employee
records may not be released, except upon written request or release by the
employee, or the release is ordered by a court or tribunal of competent
jurisdiction.
   (B)   The city shall maintain records and documents of all alcohol and drug
test results, schedules for follow-up tests, and records relating to evaluation
and referrals. These records shall be maintained for a period of at least five
years. The Department of Human Resources shall provide test result information
to any new employee applicant upon his, her, or their written request, and
shall do so within 60 calendar days of being notified of the disposition of the
employment application.
(Ord. 07, 2011 Series, passed 5-31-2011)
§ 37.073 CITY FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE.
   The city will pay for all conducted tests as described in this policy,
except for a second controlled substance test (if required by the employee)
when that test confirms the initial test to be positive. Employees may utilize
all service benefits available through the city’s Employee Assistance Program
(EAP) as described elsewhere in this policy. However, any other services that
may be required by a substance abuse professional that are not covered through
the EAP will be at the expense of the employee being treated.
(Ord. 07, 2011 Series, passed 5-31-2011)
§ 37.074 DRUG-FREE WORKPLACE POLICY ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT.
   It shall be the responsibility for the Director of Human Resources for the
city to administer and enforce the policy. This policy and its programs are not
to be interpreted or modified by any other city supervisor or director.
(Ord. 07, 2011 Series, passed 5-31-2011)
§ 37.075 RESPONSIBILITY.
   (A)   While it is ultimately the city’s legal, ethical, and moral
responsibility to create and maintain a safe and healthful workplace for its
employees, for others who make use of the city’s facilities, and for the
general citizenry of the city who may have business with the city; it is also
true that safety is everyone’s responsibility. Accordingly, every employee has
an obligation to report violations of this policy to his, her, or their
immediate supervisors, department directors, or the Director of Human Resources
in order to maintain a safe and healthful work environment for himself or
herself, for fellow employees, and for the public-at-large.
   (B)   All supervisors and department directors are responsible for the drug-
and alcohol-free operation of their respective departments. NOTE: The city
reserves the right to change, modify, amend, or rescind all or part of this
policy at anytime.
(Ord. 07, 2011 Series, passed 5-31-2011)
CREDIT CARD POLICY
§ 37.090 SCOPE.
   As used in this subchapter, CREDIT CARD ACCOUNT(S) means any bank-issued
credit card account, store-issued credit card account, financial depository-
issued credit card account, affinity credit card account, or any other card
account allowing the holder to purchase goods or services on credit, or to
transact with the account, and any debit or gift card account related to the
receipt of grant moneys. CREDIT CARD ACCOUNT(S) does not include a procurement
card account, gasoline or telephone credit card account, or any other card
account where merchant category codes are in place as a system of control for
the use of the card account. This policy strictly prohibits the use of debit
card accounts for any purpose other than law enforcement purposes and debit
accounts related to the receipt of grant money.
(Ord. 4, 2020, passed 10-20-2020)
§ 37.091 AUTHORIZED USERS.
   (A)   The Mayor is hereby authorized to apply for a credit card in the name
of the city.
   (B)   Only the following city officials and staff members shall be listed on
the credit card agreement as authorized users:
      (1)   The Mayor or a City Council member;
      (2)   The City Treasurer;
      (3)   The City Clerk; and
      (4)   A department head with prior approval by the Mayor.
(Ord. 4, 2020, passed 10-20-2020; Ord. 5, 2020, passed 10-20-2020)
§ 37.092 TYPES OF EXPENSES.
   (A)   Prohibited expenses. The following purchases are strictly prohibited:
      (1)   Alcoholic beverages;
      (2)   Personal purchases, regardless of whether the official or employee
intends to reimburse the city for the purchases;
      (3)   Cash advances;
      (4)   Items or services on term contracts, unless approved by the Mayor/
City Council;
      (5)   Utility payments;
      (6)   Phone and wireless services;
      (7)   Maintenance agreements unless approved by the Mayor/City Council;
      (8)   Purchases not related to the business of the city.
   (B)   Allowed expenses.
      (1)   The city credit card shall only be used for transactions in which
use of a standard purchase order is either impossible or would result in a
delay in the delivery of goods or services, such food and supplies, during a
time of emergency.
      (2)   Employees and officials on official city business may also use the
city credit card to pay for expenditures related to travel and training, such
as registration, accommodations, parking, meals, and airline tickets.
      (3)   Any use of the credit card shall be done in accordance with the
city’s purchasing policies and procedures and travel reimbursement policy.
      (4)   Parking charges will only be covered with a receipt stating the
charge. The date on the parking receipt must match the approved travel dates on
the travel/training form.
      (5)   Other city-related expenses that are not prohibited in division (A)
above.
(Ord. 4, 2020, passed 10-20-2020; Ord. 5, 2020, passed 10-20-2020)
§ 37.093 ACQUISITION OF A CREDIT CARD ACCOUNT.
   The procedure for establishing a credit card account or a store-issued
credit card account is as follows.
   (A)   Only an authorized position may request to open a credit card account
or a store-issued credit card account.
      (1)   A department head, who should submit the request to the Mayor.
      (2)   The City Treasurer/City Clerk, who should submit the request to the
Mayor.
   (B)   The Mayor shall be responsible for processing the application,
including signing the application and setting the credit limit.
   (C)   The name of the city must appear on each presentation instrument of
the account, including all cards and checks.
(Ord. 4, 2020, passed 10-20-2020)
§ 37.094 USE AND MANAGEMENT OF A CREDIT CARD ACCOUNT.
   (A)   Before any purchases are made, the cardholder should verify that a
purchase order has been approved for the related expenses. If the card will be
used for travel and registration, a travel/training expense form must be
approved.
   (B)   Employees should make every effort to ensure that purchases do not
include sales tax. Tax-exempt certificates are available through the City
Treasurer’s office. Sales tax may be paid for minimal expenditures from one-
time vendors who refuse the exemption, but sales tax should not be paid where
the purchases are for more substantial expenditures. The cardholder may be
personally responsible for payment
of sales tax. Exceptions will be made for online vendors who do not recognize
the city’s tax-exempt status.
   (C)   Officers and employees (cardholders) are responsible for all charges
made to the credit card. Detailed, itemized receipts for each charge on the
account must be retained and attached to the voucher. A printed copy of the
completed online purchase must be provided for all online purchases.
   (D)   Any official or employee authorized to use the city credit card shall
submit to the City Treasurer original receipts for all purchases made with the
card as soon as practical after the purchase has been made and a receipt has
been received. Failure to provide receipts will result in the cardholder being
responsible for the charges.
   (E)   Monthly statements will be sent to the City Treasurer’s office, where
they will be reviewed for unauthorized charges and other discrepancies. Each
month the City Treasurer shall reconcile the receipts submitted with the
monthly credit card statement to insure proper card usage.
      (1)   Upon receipt of the statement, the receipts will be matched to the
detailed charges.
      (2)   Any items that do not have a receipt will be the personal
responsibility of the credit card user.
      (3)   Bills will be vouchered and paid in a timely manner so that they do
not incur late charges/fees.
         (a)   If late fees are incurred, it is the responsibility of the
cardholder to request that the late charges be removed;
         (b)   The payment of late fees on habitually tardy bills will become
the responsibility of the cardholder.
   (F)   The City Treasurer shall insure that the credit card statement is paid
in full each month so that no finance charges are incurred. Copies of each
month’s credit card statement shall be made available to the Mayor and City
Council upon request.
   (G)   Credit cards are to be returned to the city immediately upon ending
employment.
   (H)   Quarterly, all departments with credit card accounts must report the
following information to the Mayor and City Treasurer:
      (1)   Lost or stolen cards;
      (2)   Cards and accounts issued during the quarter;
      (3)   The number of active cards and accounts;
      (4)   The expiration dates of all cards;
      (5)   The credit limits for all cards;
      (6)   Incentives/rewards.
(Ord. 4, 2020, passed 10-20-2020; Ord. 5, 2020, passed 10-20-2020)
§ 37.095 ISSUANCE, REISSUANCE AND CANCELLATION OF A CREDIT CARD.
   (A)   Cardholders are required to sign the credit cardholder agreement
(Attachment A to Ordinance 4, 2020) prior to issuance of a credit card. This
will be monitored by the Mayor/City Treasurer. The Mayor is authorized to
revoke the use of any credit card issued and immediately require the surrender
of the credit card.
   (B)   Once a credit card is determined as unnecessary/unneeded, the
following steps must be taken:
      (1)   The cardholder is required to inform the Mayor of the unneeded
credit card;
      (2)   The Mayor/City Treasurer shall contact the issuing bank and request
that the credit card be canceled;
      (3)   Once the credit card is canceled, it should be destroyed;
      (4)   The Mayor/City Treasurer will report the canceled credit card to
the City Council in their quarterly report.
   (C)   Lost or stolen credit cards will be reviewed for reissuance based on
circumstances.
(Ord. 4, 2020, passed 10-20-2020)
§ 37.096 REPORTING A LOST OR STOLEN CREDIT CARD.
   Lost or stolen credit cards must be immediately reported to the Mayor/City
Treasurer. Once reported, the Mayor/City Treasurer will call the bank or store,
and the Mayor’s office to report the credit card as lost or stolen.
(Ord. 4, 2020, passed 10-20-2020)
§ 37.097 MAXIMUM CREDIT LIMIT.
   Credit card limits should not exceed $5,000.
(Ord. 4, 2020, passed 10-20-2020)
§ 37.098 INCENTIVE PROGRAMS AND REWARDS.
   Any incentives/rewards derived by the use of the city’s credit card will be
the property of the city. All incentive/rewards must be reported quarterly to
the City Council.
(Ord. 4, 2020, passed 10-20-2020)
§ 37.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed is subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person who shall knowingly, wittingly, intentionally, or through
gross negligence, violate any of the provisions of this chapter shall, upon
conviction, be subject to a fine of not less than $50 nor more than $500.
(KRS 90.990) (Prior Code, § 37.99)
   (C)   (1)   Except when another penalty is specifically set forth in §§
37.030 through
37.048, any officer or employee of the city or any city agency who is found by
the Ethics Commission to have violated any provision of §§
37.030 through
37.048 shall be deemed guilty of a civil offense and may be subject to a civil
fine imposed by the Commission not to exceed $500, which may be recovered by
the city in a civil action in the nature of debt if the offender fails to pay
the penalty within a prescribed period of time.
      (2)   In addition to all other penalties which may be imposed under §§
37.030 through
37.048, a finding by the Ethics Commission that an officer or employee of the
city or any city agency is guilty of a violation of §§
37.030 through
37.048 shall be sufficient cause for removal, suspension, demotion, or other
disciplinary action by the executive authority of the city or city agency, or
by any other officer or agency having the power of removal or discipline. Any
action to remove or discipline any officer or employee for a violation of §§
37.030 through
37.048 shall be taken in accordance with all applicable ordinances and
regulations of the city and all applicable laws of the commonwealth.
   (D)   (1)   Any person who fails or refuses to file the statement or who
fails or refuses to remedy a deficiency in the filing identified in the notice
described in §
37.040 within the time period established in the notice shall be subject to a
civil fine imposed by the Ethics Commission in an amount not to exceed $25 per
day, up to a maximum total civil fine of $500. Any civil fine imposed by the
Commission under this division (D)(1) may be recovered by the city in a civil
action in the nature of debt if the offender fails or refuses to pay the
penalty within a prescribed period of time.
      (2)   Any person who intentionally files a statement of financial
interests which he or she knows to contain false information or intentionally
omits required information shall be guilty of a Class A misdemeanor.
(Ord. 09, 1994 Series, passed 11-28-1994)
APPENDIX A: STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE
   CATLETTSBURG CITY ETHIC COMMISSION
   STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE
                 Check here and attach additional sheets if necessary.
                 Number of sheets attached.
   To be filled no later than July 1 of each year, complete through December 31
of the proceeding year.
   Name:
                                                                                                           
   Business address:
                                                                                         
   Business telephone:
                                                                        
   Home address:
                                                                                               
   Title of public position or office sought:
                                                          
   Other occupations of filer:
                                                                            
   Occupations of spouse:
                                                                                   
Position held by filer in any business, partnership, corporation for profit, or
corporation not for profit from which the filer receives compensation, and the
name of the business, partnership, or corporation:
                                                                                                      
Position held by filer’s spouse in any business, partnership, corporation for
profit, or corporation for profit from which the filer receives compensation,
and the name of the business, partnership, or corporation:
                                                                                               
Names and addresses of all business, investments, or securities in which the
filer, filer’s spouse, or filer’s minor children had at any time during the
reporting year an interest of $5,000 at fair market value, or a 5% ownership
interest or more:                                                          
Sources and form of income of the filer (list sources by name):
1.                                                                                                                   
2.                                                                                                                   
3.                                                                                                                   
Sources and form of gross income of the filer’s spouse (list sources by name):
1.                                                                                                                   
2.                                                                                                                   
3.                                                                                                                   
A designation as commercial, residential, or rural, and the location of al real
property other than the filer’s primary residence, in which there is an
interest of $5,000 or more held by the filer, filer’s spouse, or filer’s minor
children:
1.                                                                                                                   
2.                                                                                                                   
3.                                                                                                                   
Do you or any member of your immediate family have any private financial
interest, directly or indirectly, in any contract or matter pending before or
within any department agency of the county government or independent agency or
special district?   Yes                  No                 
If yes, explain:
                                                                                            
(Ord. 09, 1994 Series, passed 11-28-1994)
CHAPTER 38: PROCUREMENT CODE
Section
   
38.01   Adopted by reference
§ 38.01 ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The Procurement Regulations for the City of Catlettsburg, Kentucky, February
2023 are hereby adopted by reference as if set out in full.
(Ord. 2, 2023, passed 2-21-2023; Ord. 20, 2024 passed 9-25-2024)
CHAPTER 39: PUBLIC RECORDS
Section
General Provisions
   
39.01   Definitions
Procedures for Requesting Public Records
   
39.15   Initial request with immediate inspection
   
39.16   Referral to proper custodian
   
39.17   Public records not immediately available
   
39.18   Refusal of unreasonable requests
   
39.19   Time limitation; denial of inspection
   
39.20   Miscellaneous regulations
   
39.21   Access to records relating to particular individual
   
39.22   Public records protected from disclosure
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 39.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CITY. The City Council of Catlettsburg.
   COMMERCIAL PURPOSE. The direct or indirect use of any part of a public
record or records, in any form, for sale, resale, solicitation, rent, or lease
of a service, or any use by which the user expects a profit either through
commission, salary, or fee. COMMERCIAL PURPOSE shall not include:
      (1)   Publication or related use of a public record by a newspaper or
periodical;
      (2)   Use of a public record by a radio or television station in its news
or other informational programs; or
      (3)   Use of a public record in the preparation for prosecution or
defense of litigation, or claims settlement by the parties to the action, or
the attorneys representing the parties.
(KRS 61.870(4))
   CUSTODIAN.
      (1)   The official custodian or any authorized person having personal
custody and control of public records.
(KRS 61.870(6))
      (2)   The CUSTODIAN having personal custody of most of the public records
of this city is the Mayor.
   MECHANICAL PROCESSING. Any operation or other procedure which is transacted
on a machine, and which may include, but is not limited to a copier, computer,
recorder or tape processor, or other automated device.
(KRS 61.870(8))
   MEDIA. The physical material in or on which records may be stored or
represented, and which may include but is not limited to paper, microform,
disks, diskettes, optical disks, magnetic tapes, and cards.
(KRS 61.870(7))
   OFFICIAL CUSTODIAN. The OFFICIAL CUSTODIAN of this city shall be the Mayor.
   PERSON. A human being who makes a bodily appearance before the office of the
custodian and makes a request for inspection of public records.
   PRESCRIBED FEE or FEE. The fair payment required by the city for making
copies of public records and for mailing public records, which shall not exceed
the actual cost thereof and shall not include the cost of required staff time.
   PUBLIC AGENCY. Every city and city governing body, council, school district
board, special district board, municipal corporation, court of judicial agency,
and any board, department, commission, committee subcommittee, ad hoc
committee, council or agency thereof.
   PUBLIC RECORDS. All books, papers, maps, photographs, cards, tapes, discs,
recordings, or other documentary materials regardless of physical form or
characteristics, which are prepared, owned, used, in the possession of or
retained by the public agency. PUBLIC RECORDS shall not include any records
that have been excluded by §
39.22.
   REASONABLE FEE or FEE. The fair payment required by a public agency for
making copies of public records which shall not exceed the actual cost thereof
and shall not include the cost of staff time required.
   REQUEST. An oral petition by any person; or at the option of the custodian,
the completion of a written application that clearly states the specific public
record or records that are desired for inspection and/or application.
   SOFTWARE. The program code which makes a computer system function, but does
not include that portion of the program code which contains public records
exempted from inspection as provided by KRS 61.878 or specific addresses of
files, passwords, access codes, user identifications, or any other mechanism
for controlling the security or restricting access to public records in the
public agency’s computer system. SOFTWARE consists of the operating system,
application programs, procedures, routines, and subroutines such as translators
and utility programs, but does not include that material which is prohibited
from disclosure or copying by a license agreement between a public agency and
an outside entity which supplied the material to the agency.
(KRS 61.870(3))
   URBAN RENEWAL AND COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT AGENCY. An agency as established and
operated under provisions of KRS, Chapter 99.
(Prior Code, § 39.01) (Am. Res. 10-2015, passed 6-16-2015)
PROCEDURES FOR REQUESTING PUBLIC RECORDS
§ 39.15 INITIAL REQUEST WITH IMMEDIATE INSPECTION.
   (A)   As defined in §
39.01 and subject to the limitations set forth in §
39.22, any person desiring to inspect or copy the public records of a
governmental unit shall make a request and/or complete written application for
such records at the office of the official custodian during regular office
hours, Monday through Friday of each week, except during legal holidays.
   (B)   If the custodian determines that a person's request is in compliance
with the open records law and that the requested records are immediately
available, the custodian shall deliver such records for inspection. Suitable
facilities shall be made available for the inspection, and no person shall
remove original copies of public records from the offices of any public agency
without the written permission of the official custodian of the record.
   (C)   The applicant shall have the right to make abstracts of the public
records and to obtain copies of all written public records. When written copies
are requested, the custodian may require a written request and advance payment
of the prescribed fee as defined in §
39.01.
(Prior Code, § 39.05) (Am. Res. 10-2015, passed 6-16-2015)
Statutory reference:
   Right to inspection, limitations, see KRS 61.872(1) through (3)
§ 39.16 REFERRAL TO PROPER CUSTODIAN.
   If the Secretary of the UR & CD Agency does not have custody or control of
the public record or records requested, the Secretary shall so notify the
applicant and shall furnish the name and location of the custodian of the
public record, if such facts are known by the Secretary.
(Prior Code, § 39.06) (Am. Res. 10-2015, passed 6-16-2015)
§ 39.17 PUBLIC RECORDS NOT IMMEDIATELY AVAILABLE.
   If the public records are in active use, in storage, or not otherwise
available, the official custodian shall immediately so notify the applicant and
shall designate a place, time, and date for inspection of the public records,
not to exceed three days (excepting Saturdays, Sundays, and legal holidays)
from receipt of the application, unless a detailed explanation of the cause is
given for further delay as well as the place, time, and earliest date on which
the public record will be available for inspection and/or duplication.
(Prior Code, § 39.07) (Am. Res. 10-2015, passed 6-16-2015)
§ 39.18 REFUSAL OF UNREASONABLE REQUESTS.
   If the application places an unreasonable burden in producing voluminous
public records, or if the custodian has reason to believe that repeated
requests are intended to disrupt other essential functions of the public
agency, the official custodian may refuse to permit inspection of the public
records. However, refusal under this section must be sustained in writing by
clear and convincing evidence and placed in the appropriate files.
(Prior Code, § 39.08) (Am. Res. 10-2015, passed 6-16-2015)
§ 39.19 TIME LIMITATION; DENIAL OF INSPECTION.
   (A)   The public agency, upon any request for records made under this
chapter, shall determine within three days (excepting Saturdays, Sundays, and
legal holidays) after the receipt of any request whether to comply with the
request and shall notify in writing the person making the request within the
three-day period of its decision. Any agency response denying, in whole or in
part, inspection of any record shall include a statement of the specific
exception authorizing the withholding of the record and a brief explanation of
how the exception applies to the record withheld. The response shall be issued
by the official custodian or under his or her authority and shall constitute
final agency action.
(Prior Code, § 39.09)
   (B)   A copy of the written response denying inspection of a public record
shall be forward immediately by the public agency to the Attorney General of
the Commonwealth of Kentucky. Upon the Attorney General's request, the agency
will provide additional documentation.
   (C)   If, upon request by the person seeking inspection, the Attorney
General reviews the denial and issues a written opinion upholding, in whole or
in part, the request for inspection, the agency may institute proceedings
within 30 days for injunctive or declaratory relief in the circuit court. In
addition, if the Attorney General disallows the request or if the public agency
continues to withhold the record notwithstanding the Attorney General's
opinion, and the person seeking disclosure institutes proceedings in circuit
court, the public agency shall notify the Attorney General of such action.
(Am. Res. 10-2015, passed 6-16-2015)
§ 39.20 MISCELLANEOUS REGULATIONS.
   (A)   No official of the city shall willfully conceal or destroy any record
with the intent to violate the provisions of this chapter or these rules and
regulations.
(Prior Code, § 39.10)
   (B)   Any person shall have access to any public record relating to him or
in which he is mentioned by name and upon presentation of appropriate
identification, subject to the provisions of §
39.22 of these rules and regulations.
(Am. Res. 10-2015, passed 6-16-2015) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 39.21 ACCESS TO RECORDS RELATING TO PARTICULAR INDIVIDUAL.
   Any person shall have access to any public record relating to him or her or
in which he or she is mentioned by name, upon presentation of appropriate
identification, subject to the provisions of §
39.22 of these rules and regulations.
(KRS 61.884) (Prior Code, § 39.11)
§ 39.22 PUBLIC RECORDS PROTECTED FROM DISCLOSURE.
   (A)   The following public records are excluded from the application of this
chapter and these rules and regulations and shall be subject to inspection only
upon order of a court of competent jurisdiction:
      (1)   Public records containing information of a personal nature where
the public disclosure thereof would constitute a clearly unwarranted invasion
of personal privacy. Examples include acquisition, relocation, and
rehabilitation files on families disclosing income or other personal data.
      (2)   Records confidentially disclosed to an agency and compiled and
maintained for scientific research, the regulation of commercial enterprise,
including mineral exploration records, unpatented secret commercially-valuable
plans, appliances, formulae, or processes which are used for the making,
preparing, compounding, treating, or processing of articles or materials which
are trade commodities
obtained from a person and which are generally recognized as confidential, or
for the grant or review of a license to do business, and if openly disclosed
would permit an unfair advantage to competitors of the subject's enterprise.
This exemption shall not, however, apply to records the disclosure or
publication of which is directed by other statute.
(Prior Code, § 39.12) (Am. Res. 10-2015, passed 6-16-15)
CHAPTER 40: ANTI-DISPLACEMENT AND RELOCATION ASSISTANCE
Section
   
40.01   Compliance with the Community Development Act of 1974
   
40.02   Information; required to local government, available to the public
   
40.03   Providing relocation assistance
   
40.04   Minimizing displacement
§ 40.01 COMPLIANCE WITH THE COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT ACT OF 1974.
   The city will replace all occupied and vacant occupiable low-to-moderate
income dwelling units demolished or converted to a use other than a low-to-
moderate income housing as a direct result of activities assisted with funds
provided under the Housing and Community Development Act of 1974, 12 U.S.C. §
1706e, as amended, as described in 24 C.F.R. § 570.606(b)(1).
(Res. 03, 1994, passed 9-27-1994)
§ 40.02 INFORMATION; REQUIRED TO LOCAL GOVERNMENT, AVAILABLE TO THE PUBLIC.
   (A)   All replacement housing will be provided within three years of the
commencement of the demolition or rehabilitation relating to conversion.
   (B)   Before obligating or expanding funds that will directly result in such
demolition or conversion, the city will make public and submit to the
Department of Local Government the following information in writing:
      (1)   A description of the proposed assisted activity;
      (2)   The general location on a map and approximate number of dwelling
units by size (number of bedrooms) that will be demolished or converted to a
use other than as low-to-moderate income dwelling units as a direct result of
the assisted activity;
      (3)   A time schedule for the commencement and completion of the
demolition or conversion;
      (4)   The general location on a map and approximate number of dwelling
units by size (number of bedrooms) that will be provided as replacement
dwelling units;
      (5)   The source of funding and a time schedule for the provision of
replacement dwelling units; and
      (6)   The basis for concluding that each replacement dwelling unit will
remain a low-to-moderate income dwelling unit for at least ten years from the
date of initial occupancy.
(Res. 03, 1994, passed 9-27-1994)
§ 40.03 PROVIDING RELOCATION ASSISTANCE.
   The city will provide relocation assistance, as described in 24 C.F.R. §
570.606(b)(Z), to each low-to-moderate income household displaced by the
demolition of housing or by the conversion of a low-to-moderate income dwelling
to another use as a direct result of assisted activities.
(Res. 03, 1994, passed 9-27-1994)
§ 40.04 MINIMIZING DISPLACEMENT.
   Consistent with the goals and objectives of activities assisted under the
Act, the city will take the following steps to minimize the displacement of
persons from their homes. No displacement is planned to occur on the proposed
project. If displacement is required, the city will comply with the Housing and
Community Development Alterations Act of 1974, 12 U.S.C. § 1706e, as amended,
as described in 24 C.F.R. § 570.606(b)(1).
(Res. 03, 1994, passed 9-27-1994)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   SEWER
      
51.   GARBAGE AND RUBBISH
      
52.   STORMWATER
      
53.   WATER
CHAPTER 50: SEWER
Section
General Provisions
   
50.001   Purpose and policy
   
50.002   Definitions
   
50.003   Abbreviations
Use of Public Sewers
   
50.015   Mandatory sewer connection
   
50.016   Unlawful discharge to storm sewers or natural outlets
   
50.017   Compliance with local, state, and federal laws
   
50.018   Discharge of unpolluted waters into sewers
   
50.019   Prohibited discharges
Private Wastewater Disposal
   
50.030   Public sewer not available
   
50.031   Requirements for installation
Buildings Sewers and Connections
   
50.045   Permits
   
50.046   Prohibited connections
   
50.047   Design and installations
   
50.048   Inspection
Pollutant Discharge Limits
   
50.060   General conditions
   
50.061   Restricted discharges
   
50.062   Dilution of wastewater discharge
   
50.063   Grease, oil, and sand interceptors
   
50.064   Special industrial pretreatment requirements
   
50.065   Protection from accidental and slug discharges
   
50.066   State requirements
   
50.067   City’s right of revision
   
50.068   Federal categorical pretreatment standards
Pretreatment Program Administration
   
50.080   Wasterwater discharges
   
50.081   Industrial user discharge permits
   
50.082   Permit modifications
   
50.083   Permit conditions
   
50.084   Alternative discharge limits
   
50.085   Permit duration
   
50.086   Permit transfer
   
50.087   Compliance data reporting
   
50.088   Periodic compliance reports
   
50.089   Permit violations
   
50.090   Monitoring
   
50.091   Inspection and sampling
   
50.092   Pretreatment
   
50.093   Annual publication
   
50.094   Significant noncompliance
   
50.095   Confidential information
   
50.096   Signatory requirements
Fees
   
50.110   Purpose
   
50.111   Charges and fees
   
50.112   Tapping fees
   
50.113   User charges
Powers and Authority of Inspectors
   
50.125   Rights to enter premises
   
50.126   Right to obtain information regarding discharge
   
50.127   Access to easements
   
50.128   Safety
Enforcement
   
50.140   General
   
50.141   Notice of violation
   
50.142   Administrative orders
Sewer
   
50.143   Show cause hearing
   
50.144   Additional enforcement remedies
Administration
   
50.155   Written notice
   
50.156   Revocation of permit
   
50.157   Liability
   
50.158   Destruction of sewer system or POTW and legal action
   
50.159   Legal action
   
50.160   Injunctive relief
   
50.161   Effective date
 
   
50.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 50.001 PURPOSE AND POLICY.
   (A)   This chapter sets forth uniform requirements for direct and indirect
contributors into the wastewater collection and treatment system for the city
and enables the city to comply with all applicable state and federal laws
required by the Clean Water Act of 1977, being 33 U.S.C. §§ 1251 et seq., and
the general pretreatment regulations (40 C.F.R. part 403).
   (B)   The objectives to this chapter are:
      (1)   To prevent the introduction of pollutants into the city of
wastewater system which will interfere with the operation of the system or
contaminate the resulting sludge;
      (2)   To prevent the introduction of pollutants into the city’s
wastewater system which will pass through the system inadequately treated into
receiving waters so as to cause violations of the city KPDES permit or the
atmosphere or otherwise be incompatible with the system;
      (3)    To improve the opportunity to recycle and reclaim wastewaters and
sludges from the system;
      (4)   To provide for equitable distribution of the cost of the city
wastewater system; and
      (5)   Provide for the safety of the sewer system employees.
   (C)   This chapter provides for the regulation of direct and indirect
contribution to the city wastewater system through the issuance of permits to
certain non-domestic users and through enforcement of general requirements for
the other users, authorizes monitoring and enforcement activities, requires
user reporting, and provides for the setting of fees for the equitable
distribution of costs resulting from the program established herein.
   (D)   This chapter shall apply to the city and to persons outside the city
who are, by contract or agreement with the city, users of the city publicly-
owned treatment works (POTW). Except as otherwise provided herein, the
Superintendent shall administer, implement, and enforce the provisions of this
chapter.
(Ord. 6, 2008 Series, passed 10-21-2008)
§ 50.002 DEFINITIONS.
   Unless the context specifically indicates otherwise, the following terms and
phrases, as used in this chapter, shall have the meanings hereinafter
designated.
   ACT or “THE ACT.” The Federal Water Pollution Control Act, also known as the
Clean Water Act, as amended, 33 U.S.C. §§ 1251 et seq.
   APPROVAL AUTHORITY. The Secretary of the Kentucky Natural Resources and
Environmental Protection Cabinet for an authorized representative thereof.
   AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE.
      (1)   An AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE of a user may be:
         (a)   A principal executive officer of at least the level of vice-
president, if the industrial user is a corporation;
         (b)   A general partner or proprietor if the user is a partnership or
proprietorship, respectively; and/or
         (c)   A duly authorized representative of the individual designated
above if such representative is responsible for the overall operation of the
facilities from which the indirect discharge originates.
      (2)   An AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE of the city may be any person
designated by the city to act on its behalf.
   BASELINE MONITORING REPORT (BMR). A report submitted by categorical
industrial users within 180 days after the effective date of a categorical
standard which indicated the compliance status of the user with the applicable
categorical standard (40 C.F.R. § 403.12(b)).
   BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND (BOD). The quantity of oxygen utilized in the
biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory procedure,
five days at 20°C expressed in terms of weight and concentration in milligrams
per liter (mg/l).
   BUILDING DRAIN. The part of the lowest horizontal piping of a drainage
system which receives the discharge from soil, water, and other drainage pipes
inside the walls of the building and conveys it to the building sewer,
beginning five feet outside the inner face of the building wall.
   BUILDING SEWER. The extension from the building drain to the public sewer or
other place of disposal. Also called HOUSE CONNECTION.
   BUILDING SEWER PERMIT. As set forth in §§
50.045 through
50.048.
   CATEGORICAL INDUSTRIAL USER. An industrial user subject to categorical
pretreatment standards which have been promulgated by EPA.
   CATEGORICAL PRETREATMENT STANDARDS. National Categorical Pretreatment
Standards or pretreatment standard. Any regulation containing pollutant
discharge limits promulgated by the EPA in accordance with § 307(b) and (c) of
the Act (33 U.S.C. § 1347) which applies to a specific category of industrial
users.
   CITY. The City of Catlettsburg, Kentucky.
   CLEAN WATER ACT (CWA). Also known as the Federal Water Pollution Control Act
enacted by Pub. Law No. 92-500, October 18, 1972; 33 U.S.C. §§ 1251 et seq., as
amended by Pub. Law No. 95-217, December 28, 1977; Pub. Law No. 97-117,
December 29, 1981; Pub. Law No. 97-440, January 9, 1983, and Pub. Law No. 100-
04, February 4, 1987.
   COMBINED SEWER. Any conduit designed to carry both sanitary sewage and
stormwater or surface water.
   COMBINED WASTESTREAM FORMULA (CWF). Procedure for calculating alternative
discharge limits at industrial facilities where a regulated wastestream is
combined with other non-regulated wastestreams prior to treatment (40 C.F.R. §
403.7).
   COMPATIBLE POLLUTANT. Biochemical oxygen demand, suspended solids, and fecal
coliform bacteria; plus any additional pollutants identified in the POTW’s
NPDES/KPDES permit, where the POTW is designed to treat such pollutants and, in
fact, does treat such pollutants so as to ensure compliance with the POTW’s
NPDES/KPDES permit.
   CONCENTRATION-BASED LIMIT. A limit based on the relative strength of a
pollutant in a wastestream, usually expressed in mg/l.
   CONTROL AUTHORITY. Refers to the city when there exists and approved
pretreatment program under the provisions of 40 C.F.R. § 403.11.
   COOLING WATER. Water discharged from any use such as air conditioning,
cooling, or refrigeration, or to which the only pollutant added is heat.
   DAILY MAXIMUM. The maximum allowable value for any single observation in a
given day.
   DILUTE WASTESTREAM. Boiler blowdown, sanitary wastewater, noncontact cooling
water, and certain process wastestreams that have been excluded from regulation
in categorical pretreatment standards because they contain none or only trace
amounts of the regulated pollutant.
   DIRECT DISCHARGE. The discharge of treated or untreated wastewater directly
to the waters of the commonwealth.
   DISCHARGER. Any person who discharges or causes a discharge to a public
sewer.
   DOMESTIC WASTEWATER. The water-carried wastes produced from non-commercial
or non-industrial activities and which result from normal human living
processes.
   EASEMENT. An acquired legal right for the specific use of land owned by
others.
   EFFLUENT. The liquid overflow of any facility designed to treat, convey, or
retain wastewater.
   ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY or EPA. The U.S. Environmental Protection
Agency, or where appropriate the term may also be used as a designation for the
Administrator or other duly authorized official of said agency.
EQUIPMENT. All movable, non-fixed items necessary to the wastewater treatment
process.
   FLOW PROPORTIONAL COMPOSITE SAMPLE. Combination of individual samples
proportional to the flow of the wastestream at the time of sampling.
   FLOW WEIGHTED AVERAGING FORMULA (FWA). A procedure used to calculate
alternative limits for a categorical pretreatment standard where regulated and
non-regulated wastestreams combine after treatment, but prior to the monitoring
point as defined in 40 C.F.R. part 403.
   GARBAGE. The animal and vegetable waste resulting from the handling,
preparation, cooking, and serving of foods.
   GRAB SAMPLE. A sample which is taken from a wastestream on a one-time basis
with no regard to the flow in the waste stream and without consideration of
time.
   HOLDING TANK WASTE. Any waste from holding tanks such as vessels, chemical
toilets, campers, trailers, septic tanks, and vacuum-pump tank trucks.
   INCOMPATIBLE POLLUTANT. All pollutants other than compatible pollutants as
defined under “compatible pollutant.”
   INDIRECT DISCHARGE. The discharge or the introduction of non-domestic
pollutants from any source regulated under § 307(b) or (c) of the Act, (33
U.S.C. § 1317), into the POTW (including holding tank waste discharged into the
system).
   INDUSTRIAL USER (IU). A source of indirect discharge which does not
constitute a “discharge of pollutants” under regulations issued pursuant to §
402 of the Clean Water Act, being 33 U.S.C. § 1342.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTES. The wastewater from industrial or commercial processes as
distinct from domestic or sanitary wastes.
   INTERCEPTOR. A device designed and installed so as to separate and retain
deleterious, hazardous, or undesirable matter from normal wastes which permits
normal sewage or liquid wastes to discharge into the sewer or drainage system
by gravity. INTERCEPTOR as defined herein is commonly referred to as a grease,
oil, or sand trap.
   INTERFERENCE. A discharge which, alone or in conjunction with a discharge or
discharges from other sources, both:
      (1)   Inhibits or disrupts the POTW, its treatment or processes or
operations, or its sludge processes, use, or disposal; and
      (2)   Therefore is a cause of a violation of any requirement of the
POTW’s NPDES/KPDES permit (including an increase in the magnitude or duration
of a violation) or of the prevention of sewage sludge use or disposal in
compliance with the following statutory provisions and regulations or permits
issued thereunder (or more stringent state or local regulations): § 405 of the
Clean Water Act, being 33 U.S.C. §§ 1345, the Solid Waste Disposal Act (SWDA),
being 42 U.S.C. §§ 6901 et seq., (including Title II, more commonly referred to
as the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act (RCRA)), and including state
regulations contained in any state sludge management plan prepared pursuant to
Subtitle D of the SWDA, the Clean Air Act, being 42 U.S.C. §§ 7401 et seq., the
Toxic Substances Control Act, being 15 U.S.C. §§ 2601 et seq., and the Marine
Protection, Research, and Sanctuaries Act, being 16 U.S.C. §§ 1431 et seq. and
33 U.S.C. §§ 1401 et seq., (40 C.F.R. § 403.3).
   MAY. This is permissive. (See SHALL.)
   MONTHLY AVERAGE. The maximum allowable value for the average of all
observations obtained during one month.
   MULTI-UNIT SEWER CUSTOMER. A location served where there are two or more
residential units or apartments, two or more businesses in the same building or
complex, or where there is any combination of business and residence in the
same building or complex.
   NATIONAL CATEGORICAL PRETREATMENT STANDARD or PRETREATMENT STANDARD. Any
regulation containing pollutant discharge limits promulgated by the EPA in
accordance with § 307(b) and (c) of the Clean Water Act, being 33 U.S.C. § 1317
(b) and (c), which applies to a specific category of industrial users. This
term includes prohibitive discharge limits established pursuant to 40 C.F.R. §
403.5.
   NATIONAL (OR KENTUCKY) POLLUTANT DISCHARGE ELIMINATION SYSTEM or NPDES/KPDES
PERMIT. A permit issued pursuant to § 402 of the Act (33 U.S.C. § 1332), or a
permit issued by the commonwealth under this authority and referred to as
KPDES.
   NATURAL OUTLET. Any outlet, including storm sewers, into a watercourse,
pond, ditch, lake, or other body or surface or groundwater.
   NEW SOURCE. Any building, structure, facility, or installation from which
there is or may be a discharge of pollutants, the construction of which
commenced after the publication of proposed pretreatment standards under § 307
(C) of the Act, being 33 U.S.C. § 1317(c), which will be applicable to such
source if such standards are thereafter promulgated in accordance with that
section provide that:
      (1)   The building, structure, facility, or installation is constructed
at a site at which no other source is located;
      (2)   The building, structure, facility, or installation totally replaces
the process or production equipment that causes the discharge or pollutants at
an existing source; or
      (3)   The production or wastewater generating processes of the building,
structure, facility, or installation that are substantially independent of an
existing source at the same site. In determining whether these are
substantially independent, factors such as the extent to which the new facility
is integrated with the existing plant, and the extent to which the new facility
is engaged in the same general type of activity as the existing source should
be considered.
   NINETY (90) DAY COMPLIANCE REPORT. A report submitted by a categorical
industrial user, within 90 days following the date for final compliance with
applicable categorical standards that documents and certifies the compliance
status of the user (40 C.F.R. § 403.12(d)).
   ORDINANCE. This chapter, unless otherwise specified.
   PASS THROUGH. A discharge of pollutant which cannot be treated adequately by
the POTW, and therefore exits into waters of the United States in quantities or
concentrations which, alone or in
conjunction with a discharge or discharges from other sources, is a cause of a
violation of any requirement of the POTW’s NPDES/KPDES permit (including an
increase in the magnitude or duration of a violation) (40 C.F.R. § 403.3).
   PERIODIC COMPLIANCE REPORT. A report on compliance status submitted by
significant industrial users to the Control Authority (city) at least
semiannually (40 C.F.R. § 403.12(e)).
   PERSON. Any individual, partnership, co-partnership, firm, company,
corporation, association, joint stock company, trust, estates, governmental
entity of any other legal entity, or their legal representatives, agent, or
assigns. The masculine gender shall include the feminine; the singular shall
include the plural where indicated by the context.
   pH. The logarithm of the reciprocal of the hydrogen ion concentration. The
concentration is the weight of the hydrogen ions, in grams, per liter of
solution.
   POLLUTANT. Any dredged spoil, solid waste, incinerator residue, sewage,
garbage, sewage sludge, munitions, chemical, wrecked, or discharged equipment,
rock, sand, cellar dirt, and industrial, municipal, and agricultural waste
discharged into water.
   POLLUTION. The human-made or human-induced alteration of the chemical,
physical, biological, and radiological integrity of water.
   POTW TREATMENT PLANT (CITY OF CATLETTSBURG). The portion of the POTW
designed to provide treatment to wastewater.
   PRETREATMENT or TREATMENT. The reduction of the amount of pollutants, the
elimination of pollutants, or the alteration of the nature of pollutant
properties in the wastewater to a less harmful state prior to or in lieu of
discharging or otherwise introducing such pollutants into a POTW. The reduction
of alteration can be obtained by physical, chemical or biological processes, or
process change(s), or other means, except as prohibited by 40 C.F.R. § 403.6
(d).
   PROCESS WASTEWATER. Any water which, during manufacturing or processing,
comes into direct contact with or results from the production of or use of any
raw material, intermediate product, finished product, by-product, or waste
product.
   PRODUCTION-BASED STANDARD. A discharge limitation expressed in terms of
allowable pollutant mass discharge rate per unit of production and is applied
directly to an industrial user’s manufacturing process.
   PROHIBITIVE DISCHARGE STANDARD. Any regulation developed under the authority
of § 307(b) of the Act, being 33 U.S.C. § 1317, and 40 C.F.R. § 403(5).
   PROPERLY SHREDDED GARBAGE. The wastes from the preparation, cooking, and
dispensing of food that has been shredded to such a degree that all particles
will be carried freely under the flow conditions normally prevailing in public
sewers, with no particle greater than one-half inch in any directions.
   PUBLIC SEWER. A common sewer controlled by a governmental agency or public
utility. In general, the PUBLIC SEWER shall include the main sewer in the
street and the service branch to the curb or property line, or a main sewer on
a private property and the service branch to the extent of ownership by public
authority.
   PUBLICLY OWNED TREATMENT WORKS (POTW). A treatment works as defined by § 212
of the Act, (33 U.S.C. § 1292) which is owned in this instance by the city.
This definition also includes any sewers of the city that convey wastewater to
the POTW treatment plant, but does not include pipes, sewers, or other
conveyances not connected to a facility providing treatment. For the purpose of
this chapter, POTW shall also include any sewers that convey wastewaters to the
POTW from persons outside the city who are, by contract or agreement with the
city, users of the city’s POTW or collection system.
   REGULATED WASTESTREAM. An industrial process wastestream regulated by a
national categorical pretreatment standard.
   SANITARY or DOMESTIC WASTES. The liquid and water-carried wastes from
residences, commercial buildings, and institutions as distinct from industrial
waste.
   SANITARY SEWER. A sewer that carries liquid and water-carried wastes from
residences, commercial buildings, industrial plants, and institutions.
   SEWAGE. The spent water of a community. Domestic or sanitary waste shall
mean the liquid or water-carried wastes from residences, commercial buildings,
and institutions as distinct from industrial sewage. The terms SEWAGE and
WASTEWATER are used interchangeably.
   SEWER. A pipe or conduit that carries wastewater or drainage water.
   SEWER SYSTEM OR WORKS. All facilities for collecting, transporting, pumping,
treatment, and disposing of sewage and sludge, namely the sewerage system and
the POTW.
   SEWER USER CHARGES. A system of charges levied on users of a POTW and/or
collection system for the cost of operation and maintenance, including
replacement, o such works.
   SEWERAGE. Any and all facilities used for collecting, conveying, pumping,
treating, and disposing of wastewater.
   SHALL. Is mandatory. (See MAY.)
   SIGNIFICANT INDUSTRIAL USER (SIU). Defined by EPA guidance as:
      (1)   All industrial users subject to categorical pretreatment standards
under 40 C.F.R. § 403.6 and 40 C.F.R. Chapter I, Subchap. N; and
      (2)   Any noncategorical industrial user that:
         (a)   Discharges 25,000 gallons per day or more of process wastewater
(“process wastewater” excludes sanitary noncontact cooling, and boiler blowdown
wastewater);
         (b)   Contributes a process wastestream which makes up to 5% or more
of the average dry weather hydraulic or organic (BOD, TSS, and the like)
capacity of the treatment plant; or
         (c)   Has a reasonable potential, in the opinion of the control or
approval authority, to adversely affect the pollutants, sludge contamination,
or endangerment or POTW workers or sewer system workers.
   SLUG DISCHARGE. Any discharge of a non-routine episodic nature including,
but not limited to, an accidental spill or non-customary batch discharge or any
discharge of water or wastewater in which the concentration of any given
constituent or quantity of flow exceeds, for any period of duration longer than
15 minutes, more than five times the average 24-hour concentration or flow rate
during normal operation which adversely affects the POTW.
   SLUG LOAD. Any pollutant (including biochemical oxygen demand) released in a
discharge at a flow rate or concentration which will cause interference with
the operation of the treatment works or which exceeds limits set forth in the
industry’s discharge permit and which include accidental spills.
   SPILL PREVENTION AND CONTROL PLAN. A plan prepared by an industrial user to
minimize the likelihood of a spill and to expedite control and cleanup
activities should a spill occur.
   SPLIT SAMPLE. Portion of a collected sample given to the industry or to
another agency to verify or compare laboratory results.
   STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION (SIC). A classification scheme based on
the type of industry or process at a facility.
   STANDARD METHODS. The examination and analytical procedures set forth in the
recent editions of Standard Methods for the Examination of Water and
Wastewater, published jointly by the American Public Health Association, the
American Water Works Association, and the Water Pollution Control Federation
and as set forth in the Congressional Record, 40 C.F.R. part 136.
   STATE. Commonwealth of Kentucky.
   STORM DRAIN or STORM SEWER. A drain or sewer for conveying water,
groundwater, surface water, or unpolluted water from any source.
   STORMWATER. Any flow occurring during or following any form of natural
precipitation and resulting therefrom.
   SUPERINTENDENT. The person designated by the city to supervise the publicly
owned treatment works and who is charged with certain duties and
responsibilities by this chapter or his or her duly authorized representative.
   SURCHARGE. A charge for services in addition to the basic sewer user and
debt service charges, for those users whose contributions contain biochemical
oxygen demand (BOD5), chemical oxygen demand (COD), total suspended solids
(TSS), oil and grease, or ammonia-nitrogen (NH3-N) in concentrations which
exceed limits specified herein for such pollutants. Where authorized by the
Control Authority, payment of a SURCHARGE will authorize the discharge of the
referenced pollutants so long as the discharge does not cause pass through or
interference.
   SUSPENDED SOLIDS (TSS). Total suspended matter that either floats on the
surface of, or is in suspension in water, wastewater, or other liquids and that
is removable by laboratory filtering as prescribed in Standard Methods for the
Examination of Water and Wastewater.
   TIME PROPORTIONAL COMPOSITE SAMPLE. Combination of individual samples with
fixed volumes taken at specific time intervals.
   TOXIC ORGANIC MANAGEMENT PLAN. Written plan submitted by industrial users as
an alternative to TTO monitoring, which specifies the toxic organic compounds
used, the method of disposal used and procedures for assuring that toxic
organics do not routinely spill or leak into wastewater discharged to the POTW.
   TOXIC POLLUTANT. Any pollutant or combination of pollutants listed as toxic
in regulations promulgated by the Administrator of EPA under the provisions of
the Clean Water Act § 307(a), being 33 U.S.C. § 1317(a), or any amendments
thereto.
   UNPOLLUTED WATER. Water of quality equal to or better than the treatment
works effluent criteria in effect, or water that would not cause violation of
receiving water quality standards and would not be benefited by discharge to
the sanitary sewers and wastewater treatment facilities.
   UNREGULATED WASTESTREAM. A wastestream that is not regulated by a national
categorical pretreatment standards.
   USER. Any person who contributes, causes, or permits the contribution of
wastewater into the sewer system or POTW.
   WASTEWATER. The spent water of a community.
   WASTEWATER DISCHARGE PERMIT (WPP). A permit issued to industrial users which
authorizes discharges to the public sewer as set forth in §§
50.080 through
50.096.
    WASTEWATER FACILITIES. The structures, equipment, and processes required to
collect, carry away, treat domestic and industrial wastes, and dispose of the
effluent.
   WASTEWATER TREATMENT WORKS. An arrangement of devices and structures for
treating wastewater, industrial wastes and sludge. Sometimes used as synonymous
with WASTE TREATMENT PLANT, or WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT, or WATER POLLUTION
CONTROL PLANT, or SEWAGE TREATMENT PLANT.
   WATERS OF THE STATE. All streams, lakes, ponds, marshes, watercourses,
waterways, wells, springs, reservoirs, aquifers, irrigation systems, drainage
systems, and all other bodies or accumulations of water, surface or
underground, natural or artificial, public or private, which are contained
within, flow through or border upon the state or any portion thereof.
   WATERCOURSE. A natural or artificial channel for the passage of water either
continuously or intermittently.
(Ord. 6, 2008 Series, passed 10-21-2008)
§ 50.003 ABBREVIATIONS.
   The following abbreviations shall have the designated meanings.
Abbreviation Meaning
Abbreviation Meaning
ADMI         American Dye Manufacturing Institute
ASTM         American Society for Testing Materials
BMP          Best management practices
BOD          Biochemical oxygen demand
BPJ          Best professional judgment
C.F.R.       Code of Federal Regulations
CIU          Categorical industrial user
COD          Chemical oxygen demand
CWA          Clean Water Act (33 U.S.C. §§ 1251 et seq.)
CWF          Combined wastestream formula
EPA          Environmental Protection Agency
FWA          Flo weighted average
FR           Federal Register
GPD          Gallons per day
KPDES        Kentucky Pollutant Discharge Elimination System
l            Liter
mg           Milligrams
mg/l         Milligrams per liter
NPDES        National pollutant discharge elimination system
POTW         Publicly owned treatment works
RCRA         Resource Conservation and Recovery Act
SIC          Standard industrial classification
SIU          Standard industrial user
SWDA         Solid Waste Disposal Act, 42 U.S.C. §§ 6901 et seq.
TSS          Total suspended solids
TTO          Total toxic organics
U.S.C.       United States Code
 
(Ord. 6, 2008 Series, passed 10-21-2008)
USE OF PUBLIC SEWERS
§ 50.015 MANDATORY SEWER CONNECTION.
   (A)   The owner(s) of all houses, buildings, or properties used for human
occupancy, employment, recreation, or other purposes, situated within the city
and abutting on any street, alley, or right-of-way in which there is now
located or may in the future be located a public sanitary sewer of the city, is
hereby required at the owner’s expense to install suitable toilet facilities
therein and to connect such facilities directly with the proper sewer in
accordance with the provisions of this chapter, within 90 days after date of
official notice to do so, provided that said public sewer is within 100 feet
(30.5 meters) of the property line.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to construct or maintain any privy, privy vault,
septic tank, cesspool, holding tank, or other facility intended or used for the
disposal of wastewater where public sanitary sewer service is available, as
defined in division (A) above, except as provided for in §§
50.030 and
50.031.
   (C)   At such time as a public sewer becomes available to a property served
by a private wastewater disposal system, a direct connection shall be made to
the public system within 60 days in compliance with this chapter, and any
septic tanks, cesspools, and similar private wastewater disposal facilities
shall be cleaned of sludge and filled with suitable material or salvaged and
removed.
(Ord. 6, 2008 Series, passed 10-21-2008) Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.016 UNLAWFUL DISCHARGE TO STORM SEWERS OR NATURAL OUTLETS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, deposit, or permit to be
deposited any pollutant in any unsanitary manner on public or private property
within the city, or in any area under the jurisdiction of said city, except in
compliance with the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   (1)   It shall be unlawful to discharge to any natural outlet or storm
sewer within the city, or in any area under the jurisdiction of said city, any
sanitary wastewater or other polluted waters, except where suitable treatment
or management has been provided in accordance with subsequent provisions of
this chapter.
      (2)   No provision of this chapter shall be construed to relieve the
owner of a discharge to any natural outlet of the responsibility for complying
with applicable state and federal regulations governing such discharge.
(Ord. 6, 2008 Series, passed 10-21-2008) Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.017 COMPLIANCE WITH LOCAL, STATE, AND FEDERAL LAWS.
   The discharge of any wastewater into the public sewer system by any person
is unlawful except in compliance with the provisions of this chapter, and any
more stringent state or federal standards promulgated pursuant to the Federal
Water Pollution Control Act Amendments of 1972, the Clean Water Act of 1977,
being 33 U.S.C. §§ 1251 et seq., and subsequent amendments and 40 C.F.R. part
403.
(Ord. 6, 2008 Series, passed 10-21-2008) Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.018 DISCHARGE OF UNPOLLUTED WATERS INTO SEWERS.
   (A)   (1)   No person(s) shall discharge or cause to be discharged, through
any leak, defect, or connection any unpolluted waters such as stormwater,
groundwater, roof runoff, wall seepage, or floor seepage, exterior foundation
drains, areaway drains, or subsurface drainage to any sanitary sewer, building
sewer, building drain, or building plumbing.
      (2)   Pipes, sumps, and pumps for such sources of ground and surface
water shall be separate from wastewater facilities. No sanitary drain sump or
sump pump discharge by manual switch-over of discharge connection shall have a
dual use for removal of such water.
      (3)   Any such connections which already exist on the effective date of
this chapter shall be completely and permanently disconnected within 60 days of
the effective date of this chapter.
      (4)   The Director of Public Services of his or her representative shall
have the right, at any reasonable time, to inspect the inside or outside of
buildings or smoke test for connections, leaks, or defects to building sewers
and require disconnection of repair of any pipes carrying such water to the
building sewer.
      (5)   Removal of such sources of water without presence of such separate
facilities shall be evidence of drainage to public sanitary sewers.
      (6)   The owners of any building sewers having such connections, leaks,
or defects shall bear all costs incidental to removal of such sources.
   (B)   The construction of any new combined sewers or any source of inflow
other than sanitary sewage or permitted industrial sewage is prohibited without
the advice and consent of the Commonwealth EPA.
   (C)   Any new construction tributary to the combined sewer system shall be
designed to minimize and/or delay inflow contribution to the combined sewer
system except when this is deemed impractical with the advice and consent of
the Commonwealth EPA.
(Ord. 6, 2008 Series, passed 10-21-2008) Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.019 PROHIBITED DISCHARGES.
   (A)   No user shall contribute or cause to be contributed, directly or
indirectly, any pollutant or wastewater which will interfere with performance
of the sewer system or the POTW. These general prohibitions apply to all such
users of a sewer system or the POTW whether or not the user is subject to
national categorical pretreatment standards or any other national, state, or
local pretreatment standards or requirements.
   (B)   A user shall not contribute the following substances to the POTW:
      (1)   Any gasoline, benzene, naphtha, fuel oil, or other flammable or
explosive liquids, solids, or gases, or any pollutants with a closed cup
flashpoint of less than 140°F (60 C), or that could cause an excess of 20% of
the lower explosive limit (LEL) at any point within the collection system, pump
stations, or POTW or any liquids, solids, or gases which by reason of their
nature or quantity are, or may be sufficient whether alone or by interaction
with other substances to cause fire or explosion or be injurious in any other
way to the POTW or to the operation of the POTW;
      (2)   Any waters or wastes having a pH lower than 6.0 or higher than 11.0
or having any other corrosive property capable of causing damage or hazard to
structures, equipment, and personnel of the POTW;
      (3)   Any slug load of pollutants, including oxygen demanding pollutants
(BOD and the like), released at a flow rate and/or concentration that will
cause interference with the normal operation of the POTW;
      (4)   Solid or viscous substances in quantities or of such size capable
of causing obstruction to the flow in sewers or other interference with the
proper operation of the wastewater facilities (i.e., wood, glass, ashes, sand,
cinders, unshredded garbage, paper products such as cups, dishes, napkins, milk
containers, and the like);
      (5)   Any wastewater having a temperature which will inhibit biological
activity in the POTW treatment plant resulting in interference, but in no case
wastewater with a temperature at the introduction into the POTW that will
result in a treatment plant influent temperature which exceeds 40°C (104°F);
      (6)   Any pollutant(s) which result in the presence of toxic gases,
vapors, or fumes within the POTW in a quantity that may cause acute worker
health and safety problems;
      (7)   (a)   Any substance which may cause the POTW’s effluent or any
other product of the POTW such as residues, sludges, or scum to be unsuitable
for reclamation and reuse or to interfere with the reclamation process where
the POTW is pursuing a reuse and reclamation program.
         (b)   In no case shall a substance discharged to the POTW cause the
POTW to be in noncompliance with sludge use or disposal criteria, guidelines,
or regulations developed under § 405 of the Act, being 33 U.S.C. § 1345; any
criteria, guidelines, or regulations affecting sludge use or disposal developed
pursuant to the Solid Waste Disposal Act, being 42 U.S.C. §§ 6901 et seq., the
Clean Air Act, being 42 U.S.C. §§ 7401 et seq., the Toxic Substances Control
Act, being 15 U.S.C. §§ 2601 et seq., or state criteria applicable to the
sludge management method being used;
      (8)   Any substance which will cause the POTW to violate its NPDES/KPDES
permit and/or sludge disposal system permit;
      (9)   Petroleum oil, nonbiodegradable cutting oil, or products of mineral
oil origin in amounts that will cause interference or pass through at the POTW;
      (10)   Any trucked or hauled pollutants except at discharge points
designated by the Director;
      (11)   Any waters or wastes containing any identifiable chlorinated
hydrocarbons, in quantities or concentrations capable of interfering with or
passing through the POTW; and/or
      (12)   Any waters or wastes containing acid metallic pickling wastes or
concentrated plating solutions.
(Ord. 6, 2008 Series, passed 10-21-2008) Penalty, see §
50.999
PRIVATE WASTEWATER DISPOSAL
§ 50.030 PUBLIC SEWER NOT AVAILABLE.
   (A)   Where a public sanitary sewer is not available under §§
50.015 through
50.019, the building sewer shall be connected, until the public sewer is
available, to a private wastewater disposal system complying with the
provisions of the County Health Department and all applicable local and state
regulations.
   (B)   The owner shall operate and maintain the private sewage disposal
facilities in a sanitary manner at all times, at no expense to the city.
   (C)   No statement contained in §§
50.030 and
50.031 shall be construed to interfere with any additional requirements that
may be imposed by applicable local or state regulations.
   (D)   Holders of NPDES/KPDES permits may be excepted. Industries with
current NPDES/KPDES permits may discharge at permitted discharge points
provided they are in compliance with the issuing authority.
   (E)   No septic tank or cesspool shall be permitted to discharge to any
natural outlet.
(Ord. 6, 2008 Series, passed 10-21-2008) Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.031 REQUIREMENTS FOR INSTALLATION.
   (A)   (1)   Prior to constructing a private sewage disposal system, the
owner shall first obtain a written permit from the Director of Utilities.
      (2)   The applicant shall provide a site plan, specifications, and other
information as deemed necessary by the Director.
      (3)   The permit and inspection fee(s) shall be established by the city.
   (B)   The Department shall be allowed to inspect the work at any stage of
construction, and in any event, the applicant for the permit shall notify the
inspection, and before any underground portions are covered.
   (C)   The type, capacity, location, and layout of a private sewage disposal
system shall comply with all local or state regulations.
   (D)   Permits for approved aerator systems may be issued by the Director
subject to the following:
      (1)   A public water supply shall be available to the proposed and/or
existing building site;
      (2)   The aerator system shall pose no adverse conditions to surrounding
properties and/or environment;
      (3)   The applicant must obtain written approval from the State Plumbing
Inspector; and
      (4)   The area of the building lot shall contain at least 15,000 square
feet.
   (E)   The lot size for all private wastewater disposal systems, other than
approved aerator systems, employing subsurface soil absorption facilities shall
contain no less than 20,000 square feet.
   (F)   A permit for private sewage disposal system shall not become effective
until the installation is completed to the satisfaction of the local and state
authorities.
(Ord. 6, 2008 Series, passed 10-21-2008) Penalty, see §
50.999
BUILDINGS SEWERS AND CONNECTIONS
§ 50.045 PERMITS.
   (A)   (1)   There shall be two classes of building sewer permits required:
         (a)   For residential; and
         (b)   For service to commercial and industrial establishments.
      (2)   In either case, the owner(s) or his or her agent shall make
application on a special form furnished by the city. Applicants for service to
commercial and industrial establishments shall be required to furnish
information about all waste producing activities, wastewater characteristics,
and constituents.
      (3)   The permits application shall be supplemented by any plans,
specifications, or other information considered pertinent in the judgment of
the Superintendent. Details regarding commercial and industrial permits
include, but are not limited to, those required by this chapter. Permit and
inspection fees shall be paid to the city at the time the application is filed.
   (B)   Users shall promptly notify the city in advance of any introduction of
wastewater constituents or any substantial change in the volume or character of
the wastewater constituents being introduced into the sewer system and POTW.
The Superintendent may deny or condition the new introduction or change in
discharge based on the information submitted in the notification or additional
information as may be requested.
   (C)   No person(s) shall uncover, plug, or make any connection with or
opening into, use, alter, or disturb any public sewer or appurtenance thereof
without first obtaining permission from the Superintendent.
(Ord. 6, 2008 Series, passed 10-21-2008) Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.046 PROHIBITED CONNECTIONS.
   No person shall make connection of roof downspouts, basement wall seepage or
floor seepage, exterior foundation drains, areaway drains or other surface
runoff, or groundwater to a building sewer or building drain which in turn is
connected directly or indirectly to a public sanitary sewer. Any such
connections which already exist on the effective date of this chapter shall be
completely and permanently disconnected within 60 days of the effective date of
this chapter. The owner(s) of any building sewers having such connections,
leaks, or defects bear all costs incidental to removal of such sources. Pipes,
sumps, and pumps for such sources of ground and surface water shall be separate
from wastewater facilities. Removal of such sources of water without presence
of separate facilities shall be evidence of drainage to public sanitary sewer.
(Ord. 6, 2008 Series, passed 10-21-2008) Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.047 DESIGN AND INSTALLATIONS.
   (A)   A separate and independent building sewer shall be provided for every
building; except where one building stands at the rear of another on an
interior lot and no private sewer is available or can be constructed to the
rear building through an adjoining alley, courtyard, or driveway. The sewer
from the front building may be extended to the rear building and the whole
considered as one building sewer but the city does not and will not assume any
obligation or responsibility for damage caused by or resulting from any such
single connection aforementioned.
   (B)   Old building sewers may be used in connection with new buildings only
when they are found, on examination and test by the Superintendent, to meet all
requirements of this chapter. Permit and inspection fees for new buildings
using existing building sewers shall be the same as for new building sewers. If
additional sewer customers are added to the old building sewers, additional
sewer tap fees shall be charged accordingly even though no new sewer tap is
actually made into the city system.
   (C)   Extension of customer services lines from any point on the customer’s
side of the tap for delivery of waste from any location other than that of the
customer in whose name the tap is registered shall not be permitted.
   (D)   The building sewer shall be cast iron soil pipe, ASTM A-74, latest
revision, PVC (polyvinyl-chloride) sewer pipe ASTM-D3034, latest revision or
ductile iron pipe, AWWA specification C-151 cement lined, and shall meet
requirements of the State Plumbing Code, being 815 KAR 20:010 et seq. Joints
shall be as set out hereinafter. Any part of the building sewer that is located
within five feet of a water service pipe shall be constructed with cast iron
soil pipe or ductile iron pipe unless the building sewer is at least one foot
deeper in the ground than the water service line. Cast iron soil pipe or
ductile iron pipe may be required by the city where the building sewer is
exposed to damage or stoppage by tree roots. Cast iron soil pipe or ductile
iron pipe shall be used in filled or unstable ground, in areas where the cover
over the building sewer is less than three feet or in areas where the sewer is
subject to vehicular or other external loads.
   (E)   The size, slope, alignment, and materials of construction of a
building sewer and the methods to be used in excavating, placing of the pipe,
jointing, testing, and backfilling the trench shall all conform to the
requirements of the local and State Building (815 KAR 7:120) and Plumbing Codes
and other applicable rules and regulations of the city.
   (F)   All costs and expenses incidental to the installation and connection
to the building sewer shall be borne by the owners(s). The owner(s) shall
indemnify the city for any loss or damage that may directly or indirectly be
occasioned by the installation of the building sewer. Fees for connection shall
be as established by the city.
   (G)   The owner shall ensure that all excavations for building sewer
installation shall be adequately guarded with barricades and lights so as to
protect the public from hazard. Streets, sidewalks, parkways, and other public
property disturbed in the course of the work shall be restored in a manner
satisfactory to the city.
   (H)   In all buildings in which any sanitary facility drain is too low to
permit gravity to flow to the public sewer, sanitary sewage carried by such
drain shall be lifted by an approved means and discharged to the same building
sewer. Drain pipe and sump for collection of such sanitary drainage shall be
above basement floor or in separately watertight or drained sump or channel.
   (I)   The building sewer shall be connected into the public sewer at the
easement or property line. Where no property located service branch is
available, an authorized agent of the city shall cut a neat hole into the main
line of the public sewer and a suitable wye or tee saddle installed to receive
the building sewer. The invert of the building sewer at such point of
connection with a saddle shall be in the upper quadrant to the main line of the
public sewer. A neat workmanlike connection, not extending past the inner
surface of the public sewer, shall be made and the saddle made secure and
watertight by encasement in epoxy cement specially prepared for this purpose. A
wye and H bend fitting shall be installed at the property line between the
public sewer and building sewer. This fitting shall serve the purpose of a
clean out and for applying the smoke test during inspection of the line. After
testing, a cast iron or ductile iron riser will be inserted in this fitting and
brought flush with the ground surface. A stopper or plug, outfitted with a type
joint applicable to the pipe used, shall seal this riser against the intrusion
of ground or surface water.
   (J)   All building sanitary sewer lines will be installed so as to meet or
exceed the most current revision of the State Plumbing Code.
(Ord. 6, 2008 Series, passed 10-21-2008) Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.048 INSPECTION.
   (A)   The applicant for the building sewer permit shall notify the
Superintendent when the building sewer is ready for connection to the public
sewer. The connection shall be made under the supervision of the Superintendent
or his or her representative. The connections shall be made gastight and
watertight and verified by proper testing.
   (B)   (1)   All building sewer shall be smoke tested through the wye branch
at the public sewer connection, with public sewer tightly plugged off, after
connections at both ends are made and after all pipe is properly bedded and
backfilled at least to top of pipe and if backfill is completed, within two
weeks after completion of backfill.
      (2)   At time of test, any openings into the building drain inside the
building shall be water trapped or plugged. Any leakage or smoke from building
sewer or building drain and plumbing shall be located at test and repaired to
stand repetition of smoke test without leakage.
      (3)   When smoke testing is completed, the temporary flow line plug shall
be removed and a permanent watertight plug shall be removed and a permanent
watertight plug shall be placed in branch of test wye-branch and carefully
backfilled by hand and tamped to at least six inches above the top of the
branch.
(Ord. 6, 2008 Series, passed 10-21-2008)
  POLLUTANT DISCHARGE LIMITS
§ 50.060 GENERAL CONDITIONS.
   (A)   The following described substances, materials, waters, or wastes that
shall be limited in discharges to municipal systems to concentration or
quantities which:
      (1)   Will not harm either the sewers, wastewater treatment process, or
equipment;
      (2)   Will maintain and protect water quality in the receiving stream;
and
      (3)   Will not otherwise endanger life, limb, public property, or
constitute a nuisance.
   (B)   The Superintendent may set additional limitations or limitations more
stringent than those established in the provisions in §
50.061, if in his or her opinion, more severe limitations more stringent than
those established in the provisions in §
50.061 are necessary to meet the above objectives. In forming his or her
opinion as to the acceptability of a discharge, the Superintendent shall give
consideration to such factors as the quantity of subject waste in relation to
flows and velocities in the sewers, materials of construction of the sewers,
the wastewater treatment process employed, capacity of the wastewater treatment
plant, and other pertinent factors.
(Ord. 6, 2008 Series, passed 10-21-2008)
§ 50.061 RESTRICTED DISCHARGES.
   (A)   Wastewater containing more than 100 milligrams per liter or petroleum
oil, nonbiodegradable cutting oils, or products of mineral oil origin.
   (B)   Wastewater containing floatable oils, fat, or grease, whether
emulsified or not, in excess of 200 milligrams per liter (100 mg/l) or
containing substances which may solidify or become viscous at temperatures 32-
150°F (0-65°C).
   (C)   Any garbage that has not been properly shredded. Garbage grinders may
be connected to sanitary sewers from homes, motels, institutions, restaurants,
hospitals, catering establishments, or similar places where garbage originates
from the preparation of food in kitchens for the purpose of consumption on the
premises or when served by caterers. Paper products are prohibited from being
discharged into the sewer system.
   (D)   Any wastewater containing toxic pollutants in sufficient quantity,
either singly or by interaction with other pollutants which: injure or
interfere with any wastewater treatment process, constitute a hazard to humans
or animals, causes the city to violate the terms of its KPDES permit, prevents
the use of acceptable sludge disposal methods, or exceed a limitation set forth
in a categorical pretreatment standard.
   (E)   Any radioactive wastes or isotopes of such half-life or concentration
as may exceed limits established by the city in compliance with applicable
state or federal regulations.
   (F)   Any water or wastes which by interaction with other water or wastes in
the public sewer system, release obnoxious gases, form suspended solids which
interfere with the collection system, or create a condition deleterious to
structures and treatment processes.
   (G)   Any wastewater with objectionable color which cannot be removed to an
acceptable level within the operation of the wastewater treatment process but
in no case, wastewater with a color that exceeds 100 ADMI units.
   (H)   Waters or wastes containing substances which are not amendable to
treatment or reduction by the wastewater treatment processes employed to the
extent required by the city NPDES/KPDES permit.
   (I)   Any waste(s) or wastewater(s) classified as a hazardous waste by the
Resource Conservation and Recovery Act (RCRA), being 42 U.S.C. §§ 6901 et seq.,
without a 60 day prior notification of such discharge to the Superintendent.
This notification must include the name of the hazardous waste, the EPA
hazardous waste number, type of discharge, volume/mass of discharge and time of
occurrence(s). The Superintendent may prohibit or condition the discharge(s) at
any time.
   (J)   (1)   Any water or wastes which have characteristics based on a 24-
hour composite sample, grab, or a shorter period composite sample, if more
representative, that exceed the following normal maximum domestic wastewater
parameter concentrations:
 
Parameter              Maximum Allowable Concentration Without Surcharges
BOD                    250 mg/l
COD                    1,200 mg/l
NH3-N                  30 mg/l
Oil and grease (total) 200 mg/l
TSS                    250 mg/l
 
      (2)   (a)   Any person discharging wastewater exceeding the maximum
allowable concentration as noted above will be subject to a surcharge fee for
each point loading over and above the set limit. Any other amendable
constituents requiring the addition of specific chemicals for proper treatment
will also be subject to surcharge as noted on the wastewater discharge permit.
         (b)   Exceedance of the effluent limits specified above shall not be
deemed to constitute a violation of a permit condition or this chapter if the
appropriate surcharge fee is paid and the discharge does not cause interference
or pass through of the POTW.
   (K)   The following limitations are established for characteristics of any
wastewaters to be discharged into the municipal sewer system. All significant
industrial users must comply with these limitations where they are more
stringent than applicable state and/or federal regulations.
Parameter Maximum Daily Concentration (mg/l)
Parameter            Maximum Daily Concentration (mg/l)
Arsenic              0.10
Cadmium              1.00
Chromium             12.00
Copper               2.00
Cyanide, total       2.00
Lead                 0.50
Mercury              0.0001
Nickel               1.0
Silver               0.1
Total toxic organics 2.13
Zinc                 2.0
 
   (L)   The city has received authority through the U.S. EPA and state
statutes to enforce the requirements of 40 C.F.R. Subchap. N, 40 C.F.R. part
403, and 40 C.F.R. part 35. All users shall comply with the requirements of
those regulations.
(Ord. 6, 2008 Series, passed 10-21-2008) Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.062 DILUTION OF WASTEWATER DISCHARGE.
   No use shall ever increase the use of process water or, in any way, attempt
to dilute a discharge as a partial or complete substitute for adequate
treatment to achieve compliance with the limitations contained in the federal
categorical pretreatment standards, or in any pollutant specific limitation
developed by the city or state.
(Ord. 6, 2008 Series, passed 10-21-2008) Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.063 GREASE, OIL, AND SAND INTERCEPTORS.
   (A)   Grease, oil, and sand interceptors shall be provided when, in the
opinion of the Superintendent, they are necessary for the proper handling of
liquid wastes containing floatable grease in excessive amounts, or any
flammable wastes, sand, or other harmful ingredients; except that such
interceptor shall not be required for private living quarters or dwelling
units.
   (B)   All interceptors shall be of a type and capacity approved by the
Superintendent and shall be located as to be readily and easily accessible for
cleaning and inspection. In the maintaining of these interceptors, the owner(s)
shall be responsible for the proper removal and disposal by appropriate means
of the captured material and shall maintain records of the dates, and means of
disposal.
   (C)   The city may require any hauling of the collected materials not
performed by owner(s) personnel must be performed by currently licensed waste
disposal firms. Interceptors shall also comply with applicable regulations of
the County Health Department.
(Ord. 6, 2008 Series, passed 10-21-2008)
§ 50.064 SPECIAL INDUSTRIAL PRETREATMENT REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Pursuant to the requirements imposed on publicly owned wastewater
treatment works by the Federal Water Pollution Control Act, being 33 U.S.C. §§
1251 et seq., Amendments of 1972 and later amendments, all pretreatment
standards promulgated by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency for new and
existing industrial dischargers to public sewer systems are hereby made a part
of this chapter. Any industrial waste discharge which violates these EPA
pretreatment standards shall be in violation of the chapter.
   (B)   Where pretreatment or flow equalizing facilities are provided or
required for any waters or wastes, the industry shall be solely responsible for
the continued maintenance in satisfactory and effective operation of such
facilities and at their expense. The city may agree to assume these
responsibilities if proper and appropriate arrangement for reimbursement of
costs are made.
   (C)   (1)   Any person who transports septic tank, seepage pit or cesspool
contents, liquid industrial waste, or other batch liquid waste and wishes to
discharge such waste to the public sewer system shall first have a valid
discharge permit. All applicants for a discharge permit shall complete the
application form, pay the appropriate fee, and receive a copy of the city’s
regulations governing discharge to sewers of liquid wastes from trucks. All
persons receiving such permits shall agree, in writing, to abide by all
applicable provisions of this chapter, and any other special provisions that
may be established by the city as necessary for the proper operation and
maintenance of the sewerage system.
      (2)   In addition, any person holding a valid permit and wishing to
discharge to the wastewater treatment plant must submit to the Superintendent a
sample of each load prior to discharge. A fee and payment schedule shall be
established in the permit to cover cost of the required analysis.
      (3)   It shall be illegal to discharge any batch liquid waste into any
manhole or other part of the public sewer system, or any building sewer or
other facility that discharges to the public sewer system, except at designated
points of discharge specified by the city for such purpose.
      (4)   Any liquid waste hauler illegally discharging to the public sewer
system or discharging wastewater not authorized in the permit shall be subject
to immediate revocation of discharge privileges and further subject to the
penalties and enforcement actions prescribed in §§
50.155 through
50.161 including fines and imprisonment.
      (5)   Waste haulers who have been granted permission to discharge to the
public sewer system shall pay fees for such discharge in accordance with a fee
schedule established by the Superintendent and approved by the city.
      (6)   Nothing in this chapter shall relieve waste haulers of the
responsibility for compliance with County Health Department, state, or federal
regulations.
(Ord. 6, 2008 Series, passed 10-21-2008) Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.065 PROTECTION FROM ACCIDENTAL AND SLUG DISCHARGES.
   (A)   (1)   Each significant industrial user shall provide protection from
accidental and/or slug discharges of prohibited materials or other substances
regulated by this chapter which adversely affects the POTW. Facilities to
prevent accidental and/or slug discharges of prohibited materials shall be
provided and maintained at the owner or user’s own cost and expense. Once every
two years, the Superintendent will determine whether each industrial user needs
to develop or update a plan to control slug discharges. If the Superintendent
determines that slug control plan or revision is necessary, the plan shall
contain the following:
         (a)   Description of discharge practices;
         (b)   Description of stored chemicals;
         (c)   Procedures for notifying the POTW; and
         (d)   Prevention procedures for spills.
      (2)   In the case of all possible or actual accidental and/or slug
discharges, it is the responsibility of the user to immediately telephone and
notify the City Superintendent of the incident. The notification shall include
location of discharge, type of waste, concentration and volume, and corrective
actions.
   (B)   (1)   Within five days following an accidental discharge, the user
shall submit to the Superintendent a detailed written report describing the
cause of the discharge and the measures to be taken by the user to prevent
similar future occurrences.
      (2)   Such notification shall not relieve the user of any expense, loss,
damage, or other liability which may be incurred as a result of damage, or
other liability which may be incurred as a result of damage to the POTW, fish
kills, or any other damage to person or property; nor shall such notification
relieve the user of any fines, civil penalties, or other liability which may be
imposed by §§
50.060 through
50.068, the enforcement response plan or other applicable law.
   (C)   (1)   A notice shall be permanently posted on the user’s bulletin
board or other prominent place advising employees whom to call in the event of
a dangerous discharge.
      (2)   Employers shall ensure that all employees who may cause or suffer
such a dangerous discharge to occur are advised of the emergency notification
procedure.
(Ord. 6, 2008 Series, passed 10-21-2008)
§ 50.066 STATE REQUIREMENTS.
   State requirements and limitations on discharges shall apply in any case
where they are more stringent than federal requirements and limitations or
those in this chapter.
(Ord. 6, 2008 Series, passed 10-21-2008)
§ 50.067 CITY’S RIGHT OF REVISION.
   The city reserves the right to establish more stringent limitations or
requirements on discharges to the POTW if deemed necessary to comply with the
objectives presented in this chapter.
(Ord. 6, 2008 Series, passed 10-21-2008)
§ 50.068 FEDERAL CATEGORICAL PRETREATMENT STANDARDS.
   Upon the promulgation of federal categorical pretreatment standards for a
particular industrial subcategory, the federal standard, if more stringent than
limitations imposed under this chapter for sources in that subcategory, shall
immediately supersede the limitations imposed under this chapter.
(Ord. 6, 2008 Series, passed 10-21-2008)
PRETREATMENT PROGRAM ADMINISTRATION
§ 50.080 WASTERWATER DISCHARGES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to discharge to the sewer system or POTW any
wastewater except as authorized by the city in accordance with the provisions
of this chapter.
   (B)   (1)   Any agency, nondomestic user, and/or industry outside the
jurisdiction of the city that desires to contribute wastewater to the POTW must
execute (through an authorized representative) an interjurisdictional
agreement, whereby the agency and/or industry agrees to be regulated by all
provisions of this chapter and state and federal regulations.
      (2)   An industrial user permit may then be issued by the Superintendent
in accordance with §
50.081.
(Ord. 6, 2008 Series, passed 10-21-2008) Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.081 INDUSTRIAL USER DISCHARGE PERMITS.
   (A)   General. All significant industrial users proposing to connect to or
contribute to the sewer system or POTW shall obtain an industrial user permit
before connecting to or contributing to the POTW.
   (B)   Permit application. Users required to obtain an industrial user permit
shall complete and file with the city an application in the form prescribed by
the city and accompanied by a permit fee. New users shall apply at least 90
days prior to connecting to or contributing to the sewer system or POTW.
Existing permit holder shall apply no later than 60 days prior to expiration of
permit. In support of the application, the user shall submit, in units and
terms appropriate for evaluation, the following information:
      (1)   Name, address, and location if different from the address;
      (2)   SIC number(s) according to the Standard Industrial Classification
Manual, United States Bureau of the Budget, 1972, as amended;
      (3)   Wastewater constituents and characteristics as determined by an
analytical laboratory acceptable to the city; sampling and analysis shall be
performed in accordance with procedures established by the EPA pursuant to §
304(g) of the Act, being 33 U.S.C. § 1314(g) and contained in 40 C.F.R. part
136, as amended;
      (4)   Time and duration of contribution;
      (5)   Average daily and 30-minute peak wastewater flow rates, including
daily, monthly, and seasonal variations if any;
      (6)   Site plans, floor plans, mechanical, and plumbing plans and details
to show all sewers, sewer connections, and appurtenances by the size, location,
and elevation;
      (7)   Description of activities, facilities, and plant processes on the
premises including all materials which are or could be discharged;
      (8)   Where known, the nature and concentration of any pollutants in the
discharge which are limited by the city, state, or federal pretreatment
standard, and a statement regarding whether or not the pretreatment standards
are being met on a consistent basis and if not, whether additional pretreatment
is required for the user to meet applicable pretreatment standards;
      (9)   (a)   If additional pretreatment will be required to meet the
pretreatment standards, the shortest schedule by which the user will provide
such additional pretreatment. The completion date in this schedule shall not be
later than the compliance date established for the applicable pretreatment
standards;
         (b)   The following conditions shall apply to this schedule.
            1.   The schedule must be acceptable to the city.
            2.   The schedule shall contain increments of progress in the form
of dates for the commencement and completion of major events leading to the
construction and operation of additional pretreatment required for the user to
meet the applicable pretreatment standards.
            3.   Not later than 14 days following each date in the schedule and
the final date for compliance, the user shall submit a progress report to the
Superintendent including, as a minimum, whether or not it complied with the
increment of progress to be met on such date and, if not, the date on which it
expects to comply with this increment of progress and the reason for delay, and
the steps being taken by the user to return the construction to the schedule
established.
      (10)   Each product produced by type, amount, process or processes, and
the rate of production;
      (11)   Type and amount of raw materials processed (average and maximum
per day);
      (12)   Number of employees and hours of operation of plant proposed or
actual hours of operation of pretreatment system;
      (13)   Any other information as may be deemed by the city to be necessary
to evaluate the permit application; and
      (14)   A copy of the industry’s written environmental control program,
comparable document, or policy.
   (C)   Issuance. The city shall evaluate the data furnished by the user and
may require additional information. After evaluation and acceptance of the data
furnished, the Superintendent or his or her designee may issue an industrial
wastewater discharge permit subject to terms and conditions provided herein.
(Ord. 6, 2008 Series, passed 10-21-2008)
§ 50.082 PERMIT MODIFICATIONS.
   Within nine months of the promulgation of a national categorical
pretreatment standards, the industrial wastewater discharge permit of users
subject to such standards shall be revised to require compliance with such
standards within the time frame prescribed by such standards. Where a user,
subject to national categorical pretreatment standards, has not previously
submitted an application for an industrial wastewater discharge permit as
required, the user shall apply for an industrial wastewater discharge permit
within 90 days after the promulgation of the applicable national categorical
pretreatment standards. In addition, the user with an existing industrial
wastewater discharge permit shall submit to
the Superintendent within 90 days after the promulgation of an applicable
federal categorical pretreatment standard, the information required by this
chapter.
(Ord. 6, 2008 Series, passed 10-21-2008)
§ 50.083 PERMIT CONDITIONS.
   (A)   Industrial wastewater discharge permits shall be expressly subject to
all provisions of this chapter and all other applicable regulations, user
charges and fees established by the city.
   (B)   Permits may contain the following:
      (1)   The unit surcharges or schedule of other charges and fees for the
wastewater to be discharged to a community sewer;
      (2)   Limits on the average and/or maximum wastewater constituents and
characteristics;
      (3)   Limits on average and/or maximum rate and time of discharge or
requirements for flow regulations and equalization;
      (4)   Requirements for installation and maintenance of inspection and
sampling facilities;
      (5)   Specifications for monitoring programs which may include sampling
location, frequency of sampling, number, type and standards for tests, and
reporting schedule;
      (6)   Compliance schedules;
      (7)   Requirements for submission of technical reports or discharge
reports;
      (8)   Requirements for maintaining and retaining, for a minimum of three
years, all plant records relating to pretreatment and/or wastewater discharge
as specified by the city, and affording city access thereto as required by 40
C.F.R. § 403.12(o)(2);
      (9)   Requirements for notification of the city or any new introduction
of wastewater constituents or any substantial change in the volume or character
of the wastewater constituents being introduced into the wastewater treatment
system;
      (10)   Requirements for notification of slug discharges;
      (11)   The permit may require the user to reimburse the city for all
expenses related to monitoring, sampling and testing performed at the direction
of the Superintendent and deemed necessary by the city to verify that the user
is in compliance with the said permit; and
      (12)   Other conditions as deemed appropriate by the city to ensure
compliance with this chapter.
(Ord. 6, 2008 Series, passed 10-21-2008)
§ 50.084 ALTERNATIVE DISCHARGE LIMITS.
   (A)   Where an effluent from a categorical industrial process(es) is mixed
prior to treatment with wastewater other than that generated by the regulated
process, fixed alternative discharge limits may be derived for the discharge
permit by the Superintendent. These alternative limits shall be applied to the
mixed effluent and shall be calculated using the combined wastestream formula
and/or flow-weighted average formula as defined in §
50.002.
   (B)   Where the effluent limits in a categorical pretreatment standard are
expressed only in terms of mass of pollutants per unit of production
(production-based standard), the Superintendent may convert the limits to
equivalent limitations expressed either as mass of pollutant discharged per day
or of effluent concentration for purposes of calculating effluent permit
limitations applicable to the permitted. The permitted shall be subject to all
permit limits calculated in this manner under 40 C.F.R. § 403.6(C) and must
fully comply with these alternative limits.
   (C)   All categorical users subject to production-based standards must
report production rates annually so that alternative permit limits can be
calculated if necessary. The categorical user must notify the Superintendent 30
days in advance of any major change in production levels that will affect the
limits for the discharge permit.
(Ord. 6, 2008 Series, passed 10-21-2008)
§ 50.085 PERMIT DURATION.
   Permits shall be issued for a specified time period, not to exceed five
years. A permit may be issued for a period less than a year or may be stated to
expire on a specific date. The user shall apply for permit reissuance a minimum
of 60 days prior to the expiration of the user’s existing permit. The terms and
conditions of the permit may be subject to modification by the city during the
term of the permit as limitations or requirements as identified in §§
50.060 through
50.068 are modified or other just cause exists. The user shall be informed of
any proposed changes in their permit at least 30 days prior to the effective
date of change. Any changes or new conditions in the permit shall include a
reasonable time schedule for compliance.
(Ord. 6, 2008 Series, passed 10-21-2008)
§ 50.086 PERMIT TRANSFER.
   Industrial user permits are issued to a specific user for a specific
operation. An industrial user permit shall not be reassigned or transferred or
sold to a new owner, new user, different premises, or a new or changed
operation without a 30 days prior to notification to the Superintendent and
provision of a copy of the existing permit to the new owner. The Superintendent
may deny the transfer of the permit if it is deemed necessary.
(Ord. 6, 2008 Series, passed 10-21-2008)
§ 50.087 COMPLIANCE DATA REPORTING.
   Within 90 days following the date for final compliance with applicable
categorical pretreatment standards or, in the case of a new user, following
commencement of the introduction of wastewater into the POTW, any user subject
to federal categorical pretreatment standards and requirements shall submit, to
the Superintendent, a report indicating the nature and concentration of all
pollutants in the discharge from the regulated process which are limited by
categorical pretreatment standards and requirements and the average and maximum
daily flow for these process units in the user’s facility which are limited by
such categorical standards and requirements. The report shall state whether the
applicable categorical pretreatment standards and requirements are being met on
a consistent basis and, if not, what additional pretreatment and time schedule
is necessary to bring the user into compliance with the applicable categorical
pretreatment standards or requirements. This statement shall be signed by an
authorized representative of the user.
(Ord. 6, 2008 Series, passed 10-21-2008)
§ 50.088 PERIODIC COMPLIANCE REPORTS.
   (A)   (1)   All significant industrial users shall submit to the
Superintendent, every six months (on dates specified in the industrial user
permit) unless required more frequently by the permit, a report indicating, at
a minimum, the nature and concentration, of pollutants in the effluent which
are limited by such pretreatment standards or discharge permit.
      (2)   In addition, this report shall include a record of all daily flows
which during the reporting period exceeded the average daily flow. At the
discretion of the Superintendent and in consideration of such factors as local
high or low flow rates, holidays, budget cycles, and the like, the
Superintendent may agree to alter the months during which the above reports are
to be submitted.
   (B)   All analyses shall be performed by a laboratory acceptable to the
city. Analytical procedures shall be in accordance with procedures established
by the U.S. EPA Administrator pursuant to § 304(g) of the Act, being 33 U.S.C.
§ 1314(g), and contained in 40 C.F.R. part 136 and amendments thereto and 40
C.F.R. part 261 or with any other test procedures approved by the U.S. EPA
Administrator. Sampling shall be performed in accordance with the techniques
approved by the U.S. EPA Administrator.
   (C)   Where 40 C.F.R. part 136 does not include a sampling or analytical
technique for the pollutant(s) in question sampling and analysis shall be
performed in accordance with the procedures set forth in the EPA publication
“Sampling and Analysis Procedures for Screening of Industrial Effluents
for Priority Pollutants,” April 1977, and amendments thereto, or with any other
sampling and analytical procedures approved by the U.S. EPA Administrator.
   (D)   A baseline monitoring report (BMR) must be submitted to the
Superintendent by all categorical industrial users at least 90 days prior to
initiation of discharge to the sanitary sewer. The BMR must contain, at a
minimum, the following:
      (1)   Production data: a process description, SIC code number, raw
materials used, chemicals used, final product, pretreatment industrial category
(if applicable), and a schematic which indicated points of discharge to the
sewer system;
      (2)   Identifying information to include name, address of facility, owner
(s), contact person, and any other permits held by the facility;
      (3)   Wastewater characteristics: total plant flow, types of discharges,
average, and maximum flows from each process;
      (4)   Nature/Concentration of pollutants: analytical results for all
pollutants regulated by this chapter and/or any applicable federal pretreatment
standard and sample type and location. All analyses must conform with 40 C.F.R.
part 136 and amendments thereto; and
      (5)   Information concerning any pretreatment equipment used to treat
facility’s discharge.
   (E)   New sources shall give estimates of the information requested in
divisions (D)(3) and (D)(4) above, but at no time shall a new source commence
discharge(s) to the public sewer of substances that do not meet provisions of
this chapter. All new sources must be in compliance with all provision of this
chapter and state and federal pretreatment regulations prior to commencement of
discharge to the public sewer.
(Ord. 6, 2008 Series, passed 10-21-2008)
§ 50.089 PERMIT VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   All significant industrial users must notify the Superintendent within
24 hours of first becoming aware of a permit violation. This notification shall
include the date of violation, the parameter violated, and the amount in
exceedance.
   (B)   The user shall immediately repeat the sampling and analysis of the
parameter(s) in question and submit the results to the Superintendent within 30
days after becoming aware of the violation. Exception to this regulation is
only if the city performs the sampling within the same time period for the same
parameter(s) in question.
   (C)   Compliance with the terms of an industrial user permit shall be deemed
in compliance with the terms of this chapter.
(Ord. 6, 2008 Series, passed 10-21-2008)
§ 50.090 MONITORING.
   (A)   (1)   The city shall require significant users to provide and operate,
at the user’s own expense, monitoring facilities and equipment necessary to
allow inspection, sampling, and flow measurement of the building sewer and/or
internal drainage system. The monitoring facility should normally be situated
on the user’s premises, but the city may, when such a location would be
impractical or cause undue hardship in the user, allow the facility to be
constructed in a public right-of-way. The Superintendent shall review and
approve the location, plans, and specifications for such monitoring facilities
and may require them to be constructed to provide for the separate monitoring
and sampling of industrial waste and sanitary sewage flows.
      (2)   There shall be ample room in or near such sampling manhole or
facility to allow accurate sampling and preparation of samples for analysis.
The facility shall be designed and maintained in a manner such that the safety
of city and industrial personnel shall be foremost. The facility, sampling, and
measuring equipment shall be maintained at all times in a proper operating
condition at the expense of the user.
      (3)   Whether constructed on public or private property, the sampling and
monitoring facilities shall be provided in accordance with the city’s
requirements and all applicable local construction standards and
specifications. Construction shall be completed within 90 days following
approval of the location, plans, and specifications.
   (B)   All sampling analyses done in accordance with approved federal EPA
procedures by the industrial user during a reporting period shall be submitted
to the Superintendent regardless of whether or not that analysis was required
by the industrial user’s discharge permit.
   (C)   The industrial user must receive the approval of the Superintendent
before changing the sampling point and/or monitoring facilities to be used in
all required sampling.
(Ord. 6, 2008 Series, passed 10-21-2008)
§ 50.091 INSPECTION AND SAMPLING.
   (A)   (1)   The city shall inspect the facilities of any user to ascertain
whether the purpose of this chapter is being met and all requirements are being
complied with.
      (2)   Persons or occupants of premises where wastewater is created or
discharged shall allow the city or its representative ready access at all
reasonable times to all parts of the premises for the purposes of inspection,
sampling, copying records, records examination, or in the performance of any of
their duties.
   (B)   (1)   The city and EPA shall have the right to set up on the user’s
property such devices as are necessary to conduct sampling, inspection,
compliance monitoring, and/or metering operations.
      (2)   Where a user has security measures in force which would require
proper identification and clearance before entry onto his, her, or its
premises, the user shall make the necessary arrangements with his, her, or its
security guards so that upon presentation of suitable identification, personnel
from the city and EPA will be permitted to enter, without delay, for the
purposes of performing their specific responsibilities.
(Ord. 6, 2008 Series, passed 10-21-2008)
§ 50.092 PRETREATMENT.
   (A)   (1)   All significant industrial users shall provide necessary
wastewater treatment as required to comply with this chapter and achieve
compliance with any applicable federal categorical pretreatment standards
within the time limitations as specified by the federal pretreatment
regulations.
      (2)   The city may require the development of a compliance schedule for
installation of any industrial user that cannot meet discharge limits required
by this chapter.
   (B)   Any facilities required to pretreat wastewater to a level required by
this subchapter shall be provided, operated, and maintained at the user’s
expense. Detailed plans showing the pretreatment facilities and operating
procedures shall be submitted to the city for review, and shall be acceptable
to the city before construction of the facility.
   (C)   The review of such plans and operating procedures will in no way
relieve the user from the responsibility of modifying the facility as necessary
to produce an effluent that complies with the provisions of this chapter. Any
subsequent changes in the pretreatment facilities or method of operation shall
be reported to and be acceptable to the city prior to the user’s initiation of
the changes.
(Ord. 6, 2008 Series, passed 10-21-2008)
§ 50.093 ANNUAL PUBLICATION.
   (A)   The city shall annually publish in its largest daily newspaper a list
of significant users which were in significant noncompliance with any
pretreatment requirements or standards. The notification shall also summarize
any enforcement actions taken against the user(s) during the same 12 months.
   (B)   All records relating to the city’s pretreatment program shall be made
available to officials of the EPA or approval authority upon request all
records shall be maintained for a minimum of three years in accordance with 40
C.F.R. § 403.12(o)(2).
(Ord. 6, 2008 Series, passed 10-21-2008)
§ 50.094 SIGNIFICANT NONCOMPLIANCE.
   A user is defined as being in SIGNIFICANT NONCOMPLIANCE when it commits one
or more of the following conditions:
   (A)   Causes imminent endangerment to human health or the environment or
results in the exercise of emergency authority;
   (B)   Involves failure to report noncompliance accurately;
   (C)   Results in a chronic violation defined here as 66% or more of all
measurements taken during a six-month period that exceed (by any magnitude) the
daily maximum limit or the monthly average limit for the same pollutant
parameter;
   (D)   Results in a technical review criteria (TRC) violation defined here as
33% or more of all measurements for each pollutant parameter taken during a
six-month period that equal or exceed the product of the daily maximum limit or
the average limit multiplied by the applicable TRC (TRC =1.4 for BOD, TSS,
fats, and oil and grease and 1.2 for all other pollutants except pH);
   (E)   Any violation of a pretreatment effluent limit that the Control
Authority determines has caused, alone or in combination with other discharges,
interference, or pass through or has endangered the health of the POTW
personnel or the public;
   (F)   Any discharge causing imminent endangerment to human health or welfare
or to the environment or resulting in the POTW’s use of its emergency authority
to halt or prevent such discharge;
   (G)   Violation of compliance schedule milestones, failure to comply with
schedule milestones for starting, or completing construction or attaining final
compliance by 90 days or more after the schedule date;
   (H)   Failure to provide required reports within 30 days of the due date;
and/or
   (I)   Any violation or group of violations which the Control Authority
determines will adversely affect the operation or implantation of the local
pretreatment program.
(Ord. 6, 2008 Series, passed 10-21-2008)
§ 50.095 CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION.
   (A)   Information and data on a user obtained from reports, questionnaires,
permit applications, permits, and monitoring programs and from inspections
shall be available to the public or other governmental agency without
restriction unless the user specifically requests in writing and is able to
demonstrate to the satisfaction of the city that the release of such
information would divulge information, processes, or methods of production
entitled to protection as trade secrets of the user.
   (B)   (1)   When requested by the person furnishing a report, the portions
of a report which might disclose trade secrets or secret processes shall not be
made available for inspection by the public but shall be made available to all
governmental agencies for uses related to this chapter, the NPDES/KPDES permit,
sludge disposal system permit, and/or the pretreatment programs upon request.
      (2)   Such portions of a report shall be available for use by the state
or any state agency in judicial review or enforcement proceedings involving the
person furnishing the report.
      (3)   Wastewater constituents and characteristics shall not be recognized
as confidential information and shall be available to the public without
restriction.
(Ord. 6, 2008 Series, passed 10-21-2008)
§ 50.096 SIGNATORY REQUIREMENTS.
   All applications, reports or information submitted to the city shall be
signed and certified.
   (A)   All permit applications shall be signed:
      (1)   For a corporation: by a principal executive officer of at least the
level of vice-president; and
      (2)   For a partnership or sole proprietorship: by a general partner or
the proprietor, respectively.
   (B)   All other correspondence, reports and self-monitoring reports shall be
signed by a person described above or by a duly authorized representative of
that person. A person is duly authorized only if:
      (1)   The authorization is made in writing by a person described above;
and
      (2)   The authorization specified either an individual or a position
having facility or activity, such as the position of plant manager,
Superintendent, or position of equivalent responsibility.
   (C)   Any person signing a document under this section shall make the
following certification:
   “I certify under penalty of law that I am familiar with the information
contained in this report and its attachments and that to the best of my
knowledge and belief such information is true, complete, and accurate.”
(Ord. 6, 2008 Series, passed 10-21-2008)
FEES
§ 50.110 PURPOSE.
   This subchapter provides for the recovery of costs from users of the POTW
for the implementation of the program established herein. The applicable
charges or fees shall be set forth in the city’s schedule of charges and fees.
(Ord. 6, 2008 Series, passed 10-21-2008)
§ 50.111 CHARGES AND FEES.
   (A)   The city may adopt charges and fees which may include:
      (1)   Fees for reimbursement of costs of setting up and operating the
city’s pretreatment program;
      (2)   Fees for monitoring, inspections, and surveillance procedures;
      (3)   Fees for reviewing accidental discharge procedures and
construction;
      (4)   Fees for permit applications;
      (5)   Fees for filing appeals;
      (6)   Fees for consistent removal by the POTW of excessive strength
conventional pollutants; and
      (7)   Other fees as the city may deem necessary to carry out the
requirements contained herein.
   (B)   These fees relate solely to the matters covered by this chapter and
are separate from all other fees chargeable by the city.
(Prior Code, § 50.01) (Ord. 6, 2008 Series, passed 10-21-2008)
§ 50.112 TAPPING FEES.
   City Council, by majority vote, shall have the right to waive tap fees if
deemed warranted for business purposes and in the best interest of the city.
(Ord. 9-1998 Series, passed 12-29-1998)
§ 50.113 USER CHARGES.
   (A)   It is determined and declared to be necessary and conducive to the
protection of the public health, safety, welfare, and convenience of the system
to collect charges from all users who contribute wastwater to the City Sanitary
District. The proceeds of such charges so derived will be used for the purpose
of operating and maintaining the public wastewater system.
   (B)   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      BOD (BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND). The quantity of oxygen utilized in the
biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory procedure in
five days at 20°C, expressed in milligrams per liter (mg/l).
      COMMERCIAL USER. Retail stores, restaurants, office buildings, laundries,
and other private business and service establishments.
      DEBT SERVICE. Charges levied on users of the wastewater treatment works
to support the annual debt service obligations of the system.
      GOVERNMENTAL USER. Legislative, judicial, administrative, and regulatory
activities of federal, state, and local governments.
      INDUSTRIAL USER (IU). A source of indirect discharge which does not
constitute a “discharge of pollutants” under regulations issued pursuant to §
402 of the Clean Water Act, being 33 U.S.C. 1342.
      INSTITUTIONAL USER. Social, charitable, religious, and educational
activities such as schools, churches, hospitals, nursing home, penal
institutions, and similar institutional users.
      NORMAL DOMESTIC WASTEWATER. Wastewater that has a BOD concentration of
not more than 250 mg/l and a suspended solids (TSS) concentration of not more
than 250 mg/l and chemical oxygen demand (COD) concentration of not more than
1,200 mg/l and nitrogen (NH(3)-N) concentration of not more than 30 mg/l and
oil and grease total concentration of not more than 200 mg/l.
      OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE. Those functions that result in expenditures
during the useful life of the treatment works for materials, labor, utilities,
and other items which are necessary for managing and for which such works were
designed and constructed. The term OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE includes
“replacement” as defined below.
      REPLACEMENT. Expenditures for obtaining and installing equipment,
accessories, or appurtenances which are necessary during the useful life of the
treatment works to maintain the capacity and performance for which such works
were designed and constructed.
      RESIDENTIAL USER. Any contributor to the city’s wastewater system whose
lot, parcel or real estate, or building is used for domestic dwelling purposes
only.
      SHALL. Is mandatory; MAY is permissive.
      SS (SUSPENDED SOLIDS). Solids that either float on the surface of or are
in suspension in water, sewage, or other liquids and which are removable by
laboratory filtering.
      TREATMENT WORKS. Any devices and systems for the storage, treatment,
recycling, and reclamation of municipal wastewater, domestic, wastewater, or
liquid industrial wastes. These include intercepting sewers, outfall sewers,
wastewater collection systems, pumping, power, and other equipment and their
collection systems, pumping, power, and other equipment and their
appurtenances; extension, improvements, remodeling, additions, and alterations
thereof, elements essential to provide a reliable recycled supply such as
standby treatment units and clear well facilities; and any works, including
site acquisition of the land that will be an integral part of the treatment
process or is used for ultimate disposal of residues resulting from such
treatment (including land for composting sludge, temporary storage of such
compost, and land used for the storage of treated wasterwater in land treatment
systems before land application); or any other method or system for preventing,
abating, reducing, storing, treating separating, or disposing of municipal
waste or industrial waste including waste in combined stormwater and sanitary
sewer systems.
      USEFUL LIFE. The estimated period during which a treatment works will be
operated.
      USER CHARGE. The portion of the total wastewater service charge which is
levied in a proportional and adequate manner for the cost of operation,
maintenance, and replacement of the wastewater treatment works.
      WATER METER. A water volume measuring and recording device, furnished,
and/or installed by a user and approved by the city.
   (C)   (1)   The revenues collected, as a result of the user charges levied,
shall be deposited in a separate non-lapsing fund known as the Operation,
Maintenance, and Replacement Fund.
      (2)   (a)   Fiscal year-end balances in the Operation, Maintenance, and
Replacement Fund shall be used for no other purposes than those designated.
Monies which have been transferred from other sources to meet temporary
shortages in the Operation, Maintenance, and Replacement Fund shall be returned
to their respective accounts upon appropriate adjustment of the user charge
rates for operation, maintenance, and replacement.
         (b)   The user charge rate(s) shall be adjusted such that the
transferred monies will be returned to their respective accounts within six
months of the fiscal year in which the monies were borrowed.
   (D)   (1)   The rates and charges for sewer services sold by the city which
shall be computed and billed monthly and shall be based upon the meter readings
for water used or supplied each such lot, parcel of land, building or premises,
shall be as follows:
FEES FOR SEWER SERVICE
Charges Within corporate city limits
FEES FOR SEWER SERVICE
Charges                        Within corporate city limits
                              Effective October 1, 2024 Effective July 1, 2025
Minimum bill (each user charge
per 2,000 gallons minimum      $30.80                    $32.38
bills)
Each additional 1,000 gallons  $10.69                    $11.24
                              Outside corporate city limits
                              Effective October 1, 2024 Effective July 1, 2025
Minimum bill (each user charge
per 2,000 gallons minimum      $38.18                    $40.12
bills)
Each additional 1,000 gallons  $13.42                    $13.42
 
      (2)   For residential, industrial, institutional, and commercial users,
monthly user charges will be based on actual water usage. If a residential,
commercial, institutional, or industrial user has a consumptive use of water,
or, in some other manner, uses water which is not discharged into the
wastewater collection system, the user charge for that contributor may be based
on readings of a wastewater meter(s) or separate water meter(s) installed and
maintained at the user’s expense.
      (3)   (a)   The annual percentage increase of the water, sewer, and
garbage line item for the U. S. Department of Labor Consumer Price Index
starting with the percentage for 2024 shall be applied one year later January
1, 2026.The 2025 annual percentage rate shall be applied on January 1, 2026,
and annually thereafter similar adjustments shall be applied to: minimum bills
of each user charge per 2,000 gallons.
         (b)   The Mayor shall issue an executive order directing such
adjustments to the sewer rates, if any, as required in division (D)(3)(a), no
later than January 1 of each year.
      (4)   (a)   For residential users that are not connected to a public
water system to allow billing based on water consumption, the schedule of flat
sewer service user charges are established as follows:
 
Household          In-City        Expansion Area
1 person household $10.50 minimum $12 minimum
2 person household $16.50         $19.50
3 person household $22.50         $27
4 person household $28.50         $34.50
 
            (b)   For residential users with more than four persons in
household, the user charge will be determined by adding $6/person/month “in-
city” and $7.50/person/month in the “expansion area” to the four-person rate
established hereinabove. Any residential user not connected to a public water
system must file an affidavit with the Superintendent to establish that flat
rate user rate.
      (5)   (a)   For those users whose wastewater has a greater strength than
normal domestic wastewater, a surcharge in addition to the normal user charge
will be collected.
         (b)   The following surcharge rates shall apply to each user of the
treatment works that has received permission from the Superintendent to
contribute excessive strength sewage:
 
Parameter      Surcharge Rates
BOD            $0.090 per pound
COD            $0.090 per pound
NH(3) -N       $0.050 per pound
Oil and grease $0.090 per pound
TSS            $0.090 per pound
 
      (6)   (a)   The excessive strength surcharge shall be based on a formula
(see example below), with the total applied to the monthly bill of affected
users:
      Example Formula:
         (A(D-250) + B(E-250) + C(F-25)) x .00834 x G = surcharge payment ($/
mo.)
         (b)   Where formula components are as follows:
            1.   Surcharge rate for BOD, in $/pound;
            2.   Surcharge rate of SS, in $/pound;
            3.   Surcharge rate for other pollutant(s) in $/pound;
            4.   User’s average BOD concentration, in mg/l;
            5.   User’s average SS concentration, in mg/l;
            6.   User’s average other pollutants concentration, in mg/l; and
            7.   User’s monthly flow to wastewater works, per 1,000 gallons. No
reduction in wastewater service charges, fees, or taxes shall be permitted
because of the fact that certain wastes discharged to the wastewater works,
contain less than 250 mg/l of BOD, 250 mg/1 of TSS, 1,200 mg/l of COD, 30 mg/
l of NH(3)-N, or 200 mg/l of oil and grease.
   (E)   (1)   The city shall maintain financial records to accurately account
for revenues generated by the treatment system and expenditures for operation
and maintenance of the system, including normal replacement costs.
      (2)   The city shall review not less often than annually the wastewater
contribution of users, the total cost of OM&R of the wastewater works, debt
service obligations, and user charge rates. Based on such review, the city
shall revise, when necessary, the schedule of user charge rates to accomplish
the following:
         (a)   Maintain an equitable distribution of OM&R costs among users of
the treatment system;
         (b)   Generate sufficient revenues to offset costs associated with the
proper operation and maintenance of the wastewater system and to meet debt
service requirements;
         (c)   Excessive strength and toxicity surcharges shall be reviewed at
the time of and in conjunction with the review of user charges. Surcharge rates
shall be revised where necessary to reflect current treatment and monitoring
costs; and
         (d)   Each user shall be notified, at least annually, in conjunction
with a regular bill of the rate and that portion of the total charge which is
attributable to OM&R of the wastewater system.
   (F)   (1)   All users shall be billed monthly. Billings for any particular
month shall be made within ten days after the end of the month. Payments are
due within 20 days after the end of the month. Any payment not received within
30 days after the end of the month shall be considered delinquent.
      (2)   A late payment penalty of 10% of the user charge bill will be added
to each delinquent bill for each 30 days or portions thereof of delinquency.
When any bill is more than 60 days in default, water and/or wastewater service
to such premise shall be disconnected until such bill is paid.
   (G)   This section shall be in full force and effect January 1, 1997.
(Ord. 6, 1996 Series, passed 11-19-1996; Ord. 05 of 2013 Series, passed 8-20-
2013; Ord. 09, 2014 Series, passed 9-16-2014; Ord. 03, 2015 Series, passed 2-
26-2015; Ord. 6, 2015 Series, passed 4-1-2015; Ord. 03, 2017 Series, passed 7-
1-2017; Ord. 04, 2017 Series, passed 6-20-2017; Ord. 7, 2018 Series, passed 12-
18-2018; Ord. 19, 2024, passed 9-25-2024)
POWERS AND AUTHORITY OF INSPECTORS
§ 50.125 RIGHTS TO ENTER PREMISES.
   The Superintendent and other duly promulgated employees and representatives
of the city and authorized representatives of applicable federal and state
regulatory agencies bearing proper credentials and identification shall be
permitted at all reasonable times to enter all properties for the purpose of
inspection, observation, measurement, sampling, and testing pertinent to
discharge to the public sewer system in accordance with the provisions of this
chapter.
(Ord. 6, 2008 Series, passed 10-21-2008)
§ 50.126 RIGHT TO OBTAIN INFORMATION REGARDING DISCHARGE.
   The Superintendent and other duly authorized employees of the city and
authorized representatives of applicable federal and state regulatory agencies
bearing proper credentials and identification are authorized to obtain
information including but not limited to copying of records concerning
character, strength, and quantity of industrial wastes which have a direct
bearing on the kind and source of discharge to the wastewater collection
system.
(Ord. 6, 2008 Series, passed 10-21-2008)
§ 50.127 ACCESS TO EASEMENTS.
   Duly authorized employees and representatives of the city bearing proper
credentials and identification shall be permitted to enter all private
properties through which the city holds a duly negotiated easement for the
purpose of, but not limited to, construction, inspection, observation,
measurement, sampling, repair, and maintenance of any portions of the
wastewater facilities lying within said easement. All entry and subsequent
work, if any said easement shall be done in full accordance with the terms of
the duly negotiated easement pertaining to the private property involved.
(Ord. 6, 2008 Series, passed 10-21-2008)
§ 50.128 SAFETY.
   While performing the necessary work on private properties referred to in §
50.127, all duly authorized employees of the city shall observe all safety
rules applicable to the premises established by the company. The company shall
be held blameless for injury or death to city employees. The city shall secure
the company against loss or damage to its property by city employees and
against liability claims and demands for personal injury or property damage
asserted against the company and growing out of the gauging and sampling
operation, except as such may be caused by negligence or failure of the company
to maintain safe conditions required by this chapter.
(Ord. 6, 2008 Series, passed 10-21-2008)
ENFORCEMENT
§ 50.140 GENERAL.
   (A)   (1)   The city through the Superintendent or his or her designee, to
ensure compliance with this chapter, and as permitted through 40 C.F.R.
Subchap. N, and 401 KAR 5:055, may take the following enforcement steps against
users in noncompliance with this chapter. The remedies available to the POTW
include:
         (a)   Injunctive relief;
         (b)   Civil and criminal penalties;
         (c)   Immediate discontinuance of discharges and/or water service; and
         (d)   The publishing of the list of significant violators annually.
      (2)   The enforcement authority shall be vested in the Superintendent or
his or her designee.
   (B)   The Superintendent may suspend the wastewater treatment service and/or
an industrial user permit when such suspension is necessary, in the opinion of
the city, in order to stop an actual or threatened discharge which presents or
may present an imminent or substantial endangerment to the health or welfare of
persons, to the environment, causes interference to the POTW or causes the city
to violate any condition of the city’s NPDES/KPDES permit.
   (C)   Any user notified of a suspension of the wastewater treatment service
and/or the industrial user permit shall immediately stop or eliminate the
contribution. In the event of a failure of the person to comply voluntarily
with the suspension order, the city shall take such steps as deemed necessary
including immediate severance of the sewer connection, to prevent or minimize
damage to the sewer system or POTW system or endangerment to any individuals.
The city shall reinstate the industrial user permit and/or the wastewater
treatment service upon proof of the elimination of the non-complying discharge.
   (D)   A detailed written statement submitted by the user describing the
causes of the harmful contribution and the measures taken to prevent any future
occurrence shall be submitted to the city within 15 days of the date of
occurrence.
(Ord. 6, 2008 Series, passed 10-21-2008)
§ 50.141 NOTICE OF VIOLATION.
   (A)   Any user found to be violating any provision of this chapter,
wastewater permit, or any order issued hereunder, shall be served by the city
with written notice stating the nature of the violation(s). Within ten days of
the receipt date of this notice, an explanation of the violation and a plan for
the satisfactory correction and prevention thereof, to include specific
required actions, shall be submitted to the Superintendent. Submission of this
plan in no way relieves the user of potential liability for any violation
occurring before or after receipt of the notice of violation.
   (B)   If the violations persist or the explanation and/or plan are not
adequate, the city’s response shall be more formal and commitments (or
schedules as appropriate) for compliance will be established in an enforceable
document. The enforcement response selected will be escalated if compliance is
not achieved expeditiously after the initial action. A significant
noncompliance, as defined in §
50.094, will require a formal enforcement action.
   (C)   The full scale of enforcement actions will be as detailed in the
enforcement response plan.
(Ord. 6, 2008 Series, passed 10-21-2008)
§ 50.142 ADMINISTRATIVE ORDERS.
   (A)   Any user, who after receiving a notice of violation, shall continue to
discharge in violation of this chapter or other pretreatment standards or
requirements or is determined to be a chronic or persistent violator or who is
determined to be a significant violator, shall be ordered to appear before the
city. At said appearance, a compliance schedule will be given to the non-
conforming user and an administrative fine assessed. The fine shall be
determined on a case-by-case basis which shall consider the type and severity
of violations, duration of violation, number of violations, severity of impact
on the sewer system or POTW, impact on human health, users economic benefit
from the violation, history of violations, good faith of the user, and shall be
non-arbitrary but appropriate amount.
   (B)   The administrative order may take any of the following three forms.
      (1)   Consent orders. The Superintendent or his or her designee is hereby
empowered to enter into consent orders, assurances of voluntary compliance, or
other similar documents establishing an agreement with the industrial user
responsible for the noncompliance. Such orders will include specific action to
be taken by the industrial user to correct the noncompliance within a time
period also specified by the order. Consent orders shall have the same force
and effect as orders issued pursuant to division (B)(3) below.
      (2)   Compliance order. When the Superintendent or his or her designee
finds that an industrial user has violated or continues to violate this chapter
or a permit or order issued thereunder, he or she may issue an order to the
industrial user responsible for the discharge directing that, following a
specified time period, sewer service shall be discontinued unless adequate
treatment facilities, devices, or other related appurtenance have been
installed and are properly operated. Orders may also contain
such other requirements as might be reasonably necessary and appropriate to
address the noncompliance, including the installation of pretreatment
technology, additional self-monitoring, and management practices.
      (3)   Cease and desist orders. When the Superintendent finds that an
industrial user has violated or continues to violate this chapter or any permit
or order issued hereunder, the Superintendent may issue and order to cease and
desist all such violations and direct those persons in noncompliance to:
         (a)   Comply forthwith; or
         (b)   Take such appropriate remedial or preventative action as may be
needed to properly address a continuing or threatened violation, including
halting operations and terminating the discharge.
(Ord. 6, 2008 Series, passed 10-21-2008)
§ 50.143 SHOW CAUSE HEARING.
   (A)   (1)   The Superintendent or his or her designee may issue to any user
who causes or contributes to violations of this chapter, wastewater permit to
order issued hereunder, an order to appear and show cause why the proposed
enforcement action should not be taken.
      (2)   A notice shall be served on the user specifying the time and place
of the hearing to be held by the Superintendent regarding the violation, the
reasons why the action is to be taken, the proposed enforcement action, and
direction the user to show cause, before the Superintendent, why the proposed
enforcement action should not be taken.
      (3)   The notice of the hearing shall be served personally or by
registered or certified mail (return receipt requested) at least ten days
before the hearing. Service may be made on any agent or officer of the
industrial user.
      (4)   Whether or not a duly notified industrial user or its
representative appears, immediate enforcement action may be pursued.
   (B)   The city may, itself, conduct the hearing and take the evidence, or
designate a representative to:
      (1)   Issue, in the name of the city notices of hearings requesting the
attendance and testimony of witnesses and the production of evidence relevant
to any matter involved in such hearing;
      (2)   Take the evidence; and
      (3)   Transmit a report of the evidence and hearing, including
transcripts and other evidence, together with recommendations to the city for
action thereon.
   (C)   At any hearing held pursuant to this chapter, testimony taken must be
under oath and recorded stenographically. The transcript, so recorded, will be
made available to any member of the public or any party to the hearing upon
payment of the usual charges thereof.
   (D)   After the city has reviewed the evidence, it may issue an order to the
user responsible for the discharge directing that, following a specified time
period, the sewer service be discontinued unless adequate treatment facilities,
devices, or other related appurtenances are properly operated. Further orders
and directives as are necessary and appropriate may be issued.
(Ord. 6, 2008 Series, passed 10-21-2008)
§ 50.144 ADDITIONAL ENFORCEMENT REMEDIES.
   (A)   Performance bonds. The Superintendent may decline to reissue a permit
to any industrial user which has failed to comply with the provisions of this
chapter or any order of previous permit issued hereunder unless such user first
files with it a satisfactory bond, payable to the city, in a sum not to exceed
a value determined by the Superintendent to be necessary to achieve consistent
compliance.
   (B)   Liability insurance. The Superintendent may decline to reissue a
permit to any industrial user which has failed to comply with the provisions of
this chapter or any order or previous permit issued hereunder, unless the
industrial user first submits proof that it has obtained financial assurances
sufficient to restore or repair sewer system or POTW damage caused by its
discharge.
(Ord. 6, 2008 Series, passed 10-21-2008)
ADMINISTRATION
§ 50.155 WRITTEN NOTICE.
   (A)   Any user found to be violating any provision of this chapter or a
wastewater permit or order issued hereunder shall be served by the
Superintendent or his or her designee with written notice stating the nature of
the violation. The offender shall permanently remedy all violations upon
receipt of this notice.
   (B)   (1)   As contained in §§
50.140 through
50.144, the notice may be of several forms. Also as contained in §§
50.140 through
50.144, penalties of various forms may be levied against users for violation of
this chapter.
      (2)   The penalties, if levied, shall range from publication of violators
in the local newspapers to administrative fines of at least $1,000 per day per
violation.
(Ord. 6, 2008 Series, passed 10-21-2008) Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.156 REVOCATION OF PERMIT.
   (A)   (1)   Any user violating any of the provision of this chapter or a
wastewater permit order issued hereunder may be subject to termination of its
authority to discharge sewage into the municipal sewer system.
      (2)   Such termination may be immediate if necessary for the protection
of the sewer system or POTW. Said user may also have water service terminated.
   (B)   Any user who violated the following conditions or this chapter, or
applicable state or federal regulations, is subject to having his or her permit
revoked in accordance with the procedures of this chapter:
      (1)   Failure of a user to factually report the wastewater constituents
and characteristics of his or her discharge;
      (2)   Failure of the user to report significant changes in operations or
wastewater constituents and characteristics;
      (3)   Refusal of reasonable access to the user’s premises for the purpose
of inspection or monitoring; or
      (4)   Violation of conditions of the permit.
(Ord. 6, 2008 Series, passed 10-21-2008) Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.157 LIABILITY.
   Any user violating any of the provision of this chapter, discharge permit,
or other order issued hereunder shall become liable to the city for any
expense, loss, or damage occasioned by the city by reason of such violation.
This civil liability is as provided by state and federal regulations.
(Ord. 6, 2008 Series, passed 10-21-2008) Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.158 DESTRUCTION OF SEWER SYSTEM OR POTW AND LEGAL ACTION.
   No person(s) shall maliciously, willfully, or negligently break, damage,
destroy, uncover, deface, or tamper with any structure, appurtenance, or
equipment which is part of the sewer system or POTW. Any person(s) violating
this provision shall be subject to immediate arrest under charge of disorderly
conduct. It shall be noted that the Clean Water Act, being 33 U.S.C. §§ 1251 et
seq., does not require proof of specific intent to obtain conviction.
(Ord. 6, 2008 Series, passed 10-21-2008) Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.159 LEGAL ACTION.
   If any person discharges sewage, industrial wastes, or other wastes into the
wastewater disposal system contrary to the provisions of this chapter, federal,
or state pretreatment requirements or any order of the city, the city may
commence an action for appropriate legal and/or equitable relief in the
appropriate court of this jurisdiction.
(Ord. 6, 2008 Series, passed 10-21-2008) Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.160 INJUNCTIVE RELIEF.
   Whenever a user has violated or continues to violate the provisions of this
chapter or permit or order issued hereunder, the Superintendent, through
counsel, may petition the court for the issuance of a preliminary or permanent
injunction or both (as may be appropriate) which restrains or compels the
activities on the part of the industrial user.
(Ord. 6, 2008 Series, passed 10-21-2008)
§ 50.161 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This chapter shall be in full force and effect from and after its passage,
approval, recording, and publication as provided by law.
(Ord. 6, 2008 Series, passed 10-21-2008)
§ 50.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Civil penalties. 
      (1)   Any user who significantly violated or continues to violate this
chapter or any order or permit issued hereunder, may be liable to the
Superintendent for a civil penalty of not more than $500 per day; plus actual
damages incurred by the sewer system or POTW per violation per day for as long
as the violation continues. Each day in which such violation shall continue
shall be deemed a separate offense. In addition to the above described penalty
and damages, the Superintendent may recover reasonable attorney’s fees, court
costs, court reporter’s fees, and other expenses associated with the
enforcement activities including sampling and monitoring expenses.
      (2)   The Superintendent may petition the court to impose, assess, and
recover such sums. In determining amount of liability, the court shall take
into account all relevant circumstances, including, but not limited to, the
extent of harm caused by the violation, the magnitude and duration, any
economic benefit gained through the industrial user’s violation, corrective
actions by the industrial user, the compliance history of the user, and any
other factor as justice requires.
   (B)   Criminal penalties.
      (1)   Any user who willfully or negligently violates any provision or
this chapter or any orders or permits issued hereunder shall, upon conviction,
be guilty of a misdemeanor, punishable by a fine not to exceed $1,000 per
violation per day or imprisonment for not more than one year or both.
      (2)   In the event of a second conviction, the user shall be punishable
by a fine not to exceed $10,000 per violation per day of imprisonment for not
more than three years or both.
   (C)   General penalty. Any user who knowingly and/or negligently makes any
false statements, representations, or certification of any application, record,
plan, or other document filed or required pursuant to this chapter or
industrial user discharge permit or who falsifies, tampers with, or knowingly
and/or negligently renders inaccurate any monitoring device or method required
under this chapter, shall be punished by a fine of at least $1,000 or by
imprisonment for not more than 12 months or by both.
(Ord. 6, 2008 Series, passed 10-21-2008)
CHAPTER 51: GARBAGE AND RUBBISH
Section
Franchise to Collect Garbage
   
51.01   Grant of franchise
   
51.02   Monthly rates
   
51.03   Duties of franchisee
   
51.04   Franchisee to maintain office; execute bond
Garbage Collection
   
51.15   Rules and regulations
   
51.16   Enforcement by Building Inspector or Police Department
   
51.17   Effective date
 
   
51.99   Penalty
FRANCHISE TO COLLECT GARBAGE
§ 51.01 GRANT OF FRANCHISE.
   There is hereby awarded and granted an exclusive franchise to collect
garbage, offal, refuse, and other waste materials within the city limits.
(Prior Code, § 51.01) (Ord. 10-1980, passed 12-1-1980)
§ 51.02 MONTHLY RATES.
   The city permits Hart Sanitation to increase the residential garbage fee
from $8 to $9 per month.
(Prior Code, § 51.02) (Ord. 13-2000 Series, passed 11-2-2000)
§ 51.03 DUTIES OF FRANCHISEE.
   The franchise owner shall collect garbage, offal, refuse, and other waste
materials at least once a week and shall furnish his or her own dump outside of
the city limits. He or she shall handle the materials in a sanitary manner, and
comply with health laws and regulations of the city, county, and the
commonwealth. The franchise owner shall collect free of charge any and all
garbage, offal, refuse, and waste materials in the City Building on Tuesday and
Friday of each week and trash containers in the 15-block downtown area.
(Prior Code, § 51.03) (Ord. 10-1980, passed 12-1-1980)
§ 51.04 FRANCHISEE TO MAINTAIN OFFICE; EXECUTE BOND.
   (A)   The purchaser of the franchise, or the owner thereof, shall maintain
an office within the city at his or her own expense and shall have listed on
the receipts given to customers his or her telephone number and office address.
   (B)   The purchaser of the franchise shall execute a bond in the sum of
$5,000 to the city for the faithful performance of his or her services to the
city and the subscribers of the garbage disposal service. He or she shall not
sell, assign, or transfer the franchise to another individual, partnership, or
corporation without the prior approval of the City Council and unless said
individual, partnership, or corporation executes the bond in the amount
mentioned above.
(Prior Code, § 51.04) (Ord. 10-1980, passed 12-1-1980)
GARBAGE COLLECTION
§ 51.15 RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   (A)   No person shall accumulate or permit the accumulation of garbage or
trash upon any property owned, occupied, or otherwise controlled by such person
within the corporate limits of the city.
   (B)   No person shall burn, bury, or otherwise dispose of any garbage or
trash upon any property within the corporate limits of the city, or convey or
dump such garbage or trash upon the streets or other public property by the
city.
   (C)   Garbage shall be kept in proper receptacles and shall be placed in a
convenient location on such day as it specified for pickup on the respective
area. Trash shall be placed in a receptacle or bundled for pickup.
   (D)   Each business or residence shall contract with the waste disposal
service currently holding the franchise for garbage pickup and disposal within
the city.
   (E)   Garbage shall be collected from each residence or place of business
not less than once each week.
   (F)   Residents of the city will be allowed to burn combustible materials
but it must be done in a separate container from other garbage containers. The
city sanitation service shall not be required to pick up waste left in
combustible containers.
   (G)   The owner of any real property located in the city used for
residential or business purposes who is not in possession of said real property
shall be liable to the disposal service currently holding the garbage pickup
and disposal franchise with the city for any frees for garbage disposal
services incurred by the occupant of said property which are unpaid for more
than 60 days, not to exceed a maximum liability of $500 per occurrence.
(Ord. 02-1998 Series, passed 1-8-1998; Ord. 01, 1999 Series, passed 2-23-1999;
Ord. 2, 2016 Series, passed 1-19-2016) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.16 ENFORCEMENT BY BUILDING INSPECTOR OR POLICE DEPARTMENT.
   The Building Inspector or Police Department shall be charged with
enforcement of this subchapter and shall make any inspection necessary to that
end.
(Ord. 02-1998 Series, passed 1-8-1998; Ord. 02-2001 Series, passed 2-27-2001)
§ 51.17 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This subchapter shall be in full force and effect from and after its
adoption and readoption as required by law.
(Ord. 02-1998 Series, passed 1-8-1998)
§ 51.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   A person who violates §§
51.15 through
51.17 may be fined the sum of $50 for each offense, together with the court
costs. Each day a violation continues shall be considered a separate offense.
(Ord. 02-1998 Series, passed 1-8-1998)
CHAPTER 52: STORMWATER
Section
General Provisions
   
52.01   Purpose/intent
   
52.02   Definitions
   
52.03   Applicability
   
52.04   Responsibility for administration
   
52.05   Ultimate responsibility
Conditions and Protections
   
52.20   Discharge prohibitions
   
52.21   Suspension of MS4 access
   
52.22   Industrial or construction activity discharges
   
52.23   Monitoring of discharge
   
52.24   Requirement to prevent, control, and reduce stormwater pollutants by
the use of best management practices
   
52.25   City watercourse protection
   
52.26   Notification of spills
Administration and Enforcement
   
52.40   Enforcement
   
52.41   Appeal of notice of violation
   
52.42   Enforcement measures after appeal
   
52.43   Cost of abatement of the violation
   
52.44   Injunctive relief
   
52.45   Alternatives to enforcement proceedings
   
52.46   Violations deemed a public nuisance
   
52.47   Remedies not exclusive
   
52.48   Effective date
 
   
52.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 52.01 PURPOSE/INTENT.
   (A)   The purpose of this chapter is to provide for the health, safety, and
general welfare of the citizens of the city through the regulation of non-
stormwater discharges to the storm drainage system to the maximum extent
practicable as required by federal and state law. This chapter establishes
methods for controlling the introduction of pollutants into the municipal
separate storm sewer system (MS4) in order to comply with requirements of the
National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System (NPDES) permit process.
   (B)   The objectives of this chapter are:
      (1)   To regulate the contribution of pollutants to the municipal
separate storm sewer system (MS4) by stormwater discharges by any user;
      (2)   To prohibit illicit connections and discharges to the municipal
separate storm sewer system; and
      (3)   To establish legal authority to carry out all inspection,
surveillance, and monitoring procedures necessary to ensure compliance with
this chapter.
(Ord. 10, 2005 Series, passed 1-24-2006)
§ 52.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AUTHORIZED ENFORCEMENT AGENCY. City of Catlettsburg Public Services
Department employees are responsible for the enforcement of this chapter. The
Mayor shall designate those employees for enforcement.
   BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICES (BMPs). Schedules of activities, prohibitions of
practices, general good house keeping practices, pollution prevention and
educational practices, maintenance procedures, and other management practices
to prevent or reduce the discharge of pollutants directly or indirectly to
stormwater, receiving waters, or stormwater conveyance systems. BMPs also
include treatment practices, operating procedures, and practices to control
site runoff, spillage or leaks, sludge or water disposal, or drainage from raw
materials storage.
   CLEAN WATER ACT. The Federal Water Pollution Control Act (33 U.S.C. §§ 1251
et seq.,) and any subsequent amendments thereto.
   CONSTRUCTION ACTIVITY. Activities subject to Kentucky Pollutant Discharge
Elimination System (KPDES) construction permits and/or city site development
permit. Currently, these include construction projects resulting in land
disturbance of one acre or more for the KPDES permit and any land disturbance
requires the city permit. Such activities include but are not limited to
clearing and grubbing, grading, excavating, and demolition.
   HAZARDOUS MATERIALS. Any material, including any substance, waste, or
combination thereof, which because of its quantity, concentration, or physical,
chemical, or infectious characteristics may cause, or significantly contribute
to, a substantial present or potential hazard to human health, safety,
property, or the environment when improperly treated, stored, transported,
disposed of, or otherwise managed.
   ILLEGAL DISCHARGE. Any direct or indirect non-stormwater discharge to the
storm drain system, except as exempted in §
52.23.
   ILLICIT CONNECTIONS. Either of the following:
      (1)   Any drain or conveyance, whether on the surface or subsurface,
which allows an illegal discharge to enter the storm drain system including but
not limited to any conveyances which allow any non-stormwater discharge
including sewage, process wastewater, and wash water to enter the storm drain
system and any connections to the storm drain system from indoor drains and
sinks, regardless of whether said drain or connection had been previously
allowed, permitted, or approved by an authorized agent for the city; or
      (2)   Any drain or conveyance connected from a commercial or industrial
land use to the storm drain system which has not been documented in plans,
maps, or equivalent records and approved by the city.
   INDUSTRIAL ACTIVITY. Activities subject to NPDES industrial permits as
defined in 40 C.F.R. § 122.26(b)(14).
   KENTUCKY POLLUTANT DISCHARGE ELIMINATION SYSTEM (KPDES) STORMWATER DISCHARGE
PERMIT. A permit issued by the commonwealth under authority delegated pursuant
to 33 U.S.C. § 1342(b) that authorizes the discharge of pollutants to waters of
the commonwealth, whether the permit is applicable on an individual, group, or
general area-wide basis. The KPDES PERMIT replaces the National Pollutant
Discharge Elimination System (NPDES) stormwater discharge permit in Kentucky.
   NON-STORMWATER DISCHARGE. Any discharge to the storm drain system that is
not composed entirely of stormwater.
   PERSON. Any individual, association, organization, partnership, firm,
corporation, or other entity recognized by law and acting as either the owner
or as the owner’s agent.
   POLLUTANT. Anything which causes or contributes to the alteration of the
physical, thermal, chemical, or biological quality of or the contamination of
any water within the city, that renders the water harmful, detrimental, or
injurious to humans, animal life, vegetation, property, or to the public
health, safety, or welfare, or impairs the usefulness or the public enjoyment
of the water for any lawful or reasonable purpose. POLLUTANTS may include, but
are not limited to: paints, varnishes, and solvents; oil and other automotive
fluids; soap, detergent, degreaser, solvent, emulsifier, or other cleaning
substance; non-hazardous liquid and solid wastes and yard wastes; refuse,
rubbish, garbage, litter, or other discarded or abandoned objects, ordinances,
and accumulations, so that same may cause or contribute to pollution;
floatables; pesticides, herbicides, and fertilizers; hazardous substances and
wastes; sewage, fecal coliform and pathogens; dissolved and particulate metals;
animal wastes; wastes and residues that result from constructing a building or
structure; and noxious or offensive matter of any kind.
   PREMISES. Any building, lot, parcel of land, or portion of land whether
improved or unimproved including adjacent sidewalks and parking strips.
   STORM DRAINAGE SYSTEM. Publicly-owned facilities by which stormwater is
collected and/or conveyed, including but not limited to any roads with drainage
systems, municipal streets, gutters, curbs, inlets, piped storm drains, pumping
facilities, retention and detention basins, natural and human-made or altered
drainage channels, reservoirs, and other drainage structures.
   STORMWATER. Any surface flow, runoff, and drainage consisting entirely of
water from any form of natural precipitation, and resulting from such
precipitation.
   STORMWATER POLLUTION PREVENTION PLAN. A document which describes the best
management practices and activities to be implemented by a person or business
to identify sources of pollution or contamination at a site and the actions to
eliminate or reduce pollutant discharges to stormwater, stormwater conveyance
systems, and/or receiving waters to the maximum extent practicable.
   WASTEWATER. Any water or other liquid, other than uncontaminated stormwater,
discharged from a facility.
   WATERS OF THE CITY. Groundwater, percolating or otherwise, lakes, ponds,
impounded reservoirs, springs, rivers, streams, creeks, wetlands, marshes, and
all other bodies of surface water including the bed and banks of all
watercourses and bodies of surface water that are wholly or partially inside or
bordering the boundary of the city.
(Ord. 10, 2005 Series, passed 1-24-2006)
§ 52.03 APPLICABILITY.
   This chapter shall apply to all water entering the storm drain system
generated on any developed and undeveloped lands unless explicitly exempted
herein.
(Ord. 10, 2005 Series, passed 1-24-2006)
§ 52.04 RESPONSIBILITY FOR ADMINISTRATION.
   The Public Services Department of the city shall administer, implement, and
enforce the provisions of this chapter. Any powers granted or duties imposed
upon the Public Services Department may be delegated in writing by the Director
to persons or entities acting in the beneficial interest of or in the employ of
the city.
(Ord. 10, 2005 Series, passed 1-24-2006)
§ 52.05 ULTIMATE RESPONSIBILITY.
   The standards set forth herein and promulgated pursuant to this chapter are
minimum standards; therefore, this chapter does not intend nor imply that
compliance by any person will ensure that there will be no contamination,
pollution, nor unauthorized discharge of pollutants.
(Ord. 10, 2005 Series, passed 1-24-2006)
CONDITIONS AND PROTECTIONS
§ 52.20DISCHARGE PROHIBITIONS.
   (A)   Prohibition of illegal discharges. 
      (1)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged into the
municipal storm drain system or into any watercourses, any materials, including
but not limited to pollutants or waters containing any pollutants that cause or
contribute to a violation of applicable water quality standards, other than
stormwater.
      (2)   The commencement, conduct, or continuance of any illegal discharge
to the storm drain system is prohibited except as described as follows:
         (a)   The following discharges are exempt from discharge prohibitions
established by this chapter:
            1.   Water line flushing or other potable water sources;
            2.   Landscape irrigation or lawn watering;
            3.   Diverted stream flows;
            4.   Rising groundwater;
            5.   Groundwater infiltration to storm drains;
            6.   Uncontaminated pumped groundwater;
            7.   Foundation or footing drains (not including active groundwater
de-watering systems);
            8.   Crawl space pumps;
            9.   Air conditioning condensation;
            10.   Springs;
            11.   Noncommercial washing of vehicles;
            12.   Natural riparian habitat or wetland flows;
            13.   Swimming pools (if de-chlorinated - typically less than one
PPM chlorine);
            14.   Fire fighting activities; and
            15.   Any other water source not containing pollutants.
         (b)   Discharges specified in writing by the City Department of Public
Services as being necessary to protect public health and safety;
         (c)   Dye testing is an allowable discharge, but requires a verbal
notification to the Public Services Department prior to the time of the test;
and
         (d)   The prohibition shall not apply to any non-stormwater discharge
permitted under an KPDES/city site development permit, waiver, or waste
discharge order issued to the discharger and administered under the authority
of the Commonwealth Environmental Protection Agency, provided that the
discharger is in full compliance with all requirements of the permit, waiver,
or order and other applicable laws and regulations, and provided that written
approval has been granted for any discharge to the storm drain system.
   (B)   Prohibition of illicit connections.
      (1)   The construction, use, maintenance, or continued existence of
illicit connections to the storm drain system is prohibited.
      (2)   This prohibition expressly includes, without limitation, illicit
connections made in the past, regardless of whether the connection was
permissible under law or practices applicable or prevailing at the time of
connection.
      (3)   A person is considered to be in violation of this chapter if a
person connects to a line conveying sewage to MS4, or allows such connection to
continue
(Ord. 10, 2005 Series, passed 1-24-2006) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.21SUSPENSION OF MS4 ACCESS.
   (A)   Suspension due to illicit discharges in emergency situations.
      (1)   The City Public Services Department may, without prior notice,
suspend MS4 discharge access to a person when such suspension is necessary to
stop an actual or threatened discharge which presents or may present imminent
and substantial danger to the environment, or to the health or welfare of
persons, or to the MS4 or waters of the city.
      (2)   If the violator fails to comply with a suspension order issued in
an emergency, the authorized enforcement agency may take such steps as deemed
necessary to prevent or minimize damage to the MS4 or waters of the city, or to
minimize danger to persons.
   (B)   Suspension due to the detention of illicit discharge.
      (1)   Any person discharging to the MS4 in violation of this chapter may
have his or her MS4 access terminated if such termination would abate or reduce
an illicit discharge. The Public Services Department will notify a violator of
the proposed termination of its MS4 access. The violator may petition the city
for a reconsideration and hearing.
      (2)   A person commits an offense if the person reinstates MS4 access to
premises terminated pursuant to this section, without the prior approval of the
City Public Services Department.
(Ord. 10, 2005 Series, passed 1-24-2006)
§ 52.22INDUSTRIAL OR CONSTRUCTION ACTIVITY DISCHARGES.
   Any person subject to an industrial or construction activity KPDES/city site
development stormwater discharge permit shall comply with all provisions of
such permit. Proof of compliance with said permit may be required in a form
acceptable to the city prior to the allowing of discharges to the MS4.
(Ord. 10, 2005 Series, passed 1-24-2006)
§ 52.23MONITORING OF DISCHARGE.
   (A)   Applicability. This section applies to all facilities that have
stormwater discharges associated with industrial activity, including
construction activity.
   (B)   Access to facilities.
      (1)   The City Public Services Department shall be permitted to enter and
inspect facilities subject to regulation under this chapter as often as may be
necessary to determine compliance with this chapter. If a discharger has
security measures in force, which require proper identification and clearance
before entry into its premises, the discharger shall make the necessary
arrangements to allow access to representatives of the Department.
      (2)   Facility operators shall allow the authorized representatives ready
access to all parts of the premises for the purposes of inspection, sampling,
examination, and copying of records that must be kept under the conditions of
an KPDES/city site development permit to discharge stormwater, and the
performance of any additional duties as defined by city ordinance, state, and
federal law.
      (3)   The city shall have the right to set up on any permitted facility
such devices as are necessary in the opinion of the authorized enforcement
agency to conduct monitoring and/or sampling of the facility’s stormwater
discharge.
      (4)   The city has the right to require the discharger to install
monitoring equipment as necessary. The facility’s sampling and monitoring
equipment shall be maintained at all times in a safe and proper operating
condition by the discharger at its own expense. All devices used to measure
stormwater flow and quality shall be calibrated to ensure their accuracy.
      (5)   Any temporary or permanent obstruction to safe and easy access to
the facility to be inspected and/or sampled shall be promptly removed by the
operator at the written or oral request of the City Public Services Department
and shall not be replaced. The costs of clearing such access shall be borne by
the operator.
      (6)   Unreasonable delays in allowing the designated employees access to
a permitted facility is a violation of a stormwater discharge permit and of
this chapter. A person who is the operator of a facility with a KPDES permit to
discharge stormwater associated with industrial activity commits an offense if
the person denies the city reasonable access to the permitted facility for the
purpose of conducting any activity authorized or required by this chapter.
      (7)   If the city has been refused access to any part of the premises
from which stormwater is discharged, and he or she is able to demonstrate
probable cause to believe that there may be a violation of this chapter, or
that there is a need to inspect and/or sample as part of a routine inspection
and sampling program designed to verify compliance with this chapter or any
order issued hereunder, or to protect the overall public health, safety, and
welfare of the community, then the city may seek issuance of a search warrant.
(Ord. 10, 2005 Series, passed 1-24-2006)
§ 52.24REQUIREMENT TO PREVENT, CONTROL, AND REDUCE STORMWATER POLLUTANTS BY THE
USE OF BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICES.
   (A)   The city shall adopt requirements identifying best management
practices for any activity, operation, or facility which may cause or
contribute to pollution or contamination of stormwater, the storm drain system,
or waters of the city. The owner or operator of a commercial or industrial
establishment shall provide, at his, her, or their own expense, reasonable
protection from accidental discharge of prohibited materials or other wastes
into the municipal storm drain system or watercourses through the use of these
structural and non-structural BMPs. Further, any person responsible for a
property or premise, which is, or may be, the source of an illicit discharge,
may be required to implement, at said person’s expense, additional structural
and non-structural BMPs to prevent the further discharge of pollutants to the
municipal separate storm sewer system.
   (B)   Compliance with all terms and conditions of a valid KPDES/the city
site development permit authorizing the discharge of stormwater associated with
industrial activity, to the extent practicable, shall be deemed compliant with
the provisions of this section. These BMPs shall be part of a stormwater
pollution prevention plan (SWPPP) as necessary for compliance with requirements
of the required permits.
(Ord. 10, 2005 Series, passed 1-24-2006)
§ 52.25CITY WATERCOURSE PROTECTION.
   Every person owning property through which a watercourse passes, or such
person’s lessee, shall keep and maintain that part of the watercourse within
the property free of trash, debris, excessive vegetation, and other obstacles
that would pollute, contaminate, or significantly retard the flow of water
through the watercourse. In addition, the owner or lessee shall maintain
existing privately owned structures within or adjacent to a watercourse, so
that such structures will not become a hazard to the use, function, or physical
integrity of the watercourse.
(Ord. 10, 2005 Series, passed 1-24-2006)
§ 52.26NOTIFICATION OF SPILLS.
   (A)   Notwithstanding other requirements of law, as soon as any person
responsible for a facility or operation, or responsible for emergency response
for a facility or operation has information of any known or suspected release
of materials which are resulting or may result in illegal discharges or
pollutants discharging into stormwater, the storm drain system, or waters of
the city, said person shall take all necessary steps to ensure the discovery,
containment, and cleanup of such release.
   (B)   In the event of such a release of hazardous materials said person
shall immediately notify emergency response agencies of the occurrence via
emergency dispatch services. In the event of a release of non-hazardous
materials, said person shall notify the city in person or by phone or facsimile
no later than the next business day.
   (C)   Notifications in person or by phone shall be confirmed by written
notice addressed and mailed to the Department of Public Services, Stormwater
Coordinator, P.O. Box 533, Catlettsburg, Kentucky 41129 within three business
days of the phone notice.
   (D)   If the discharge of prohibited materials emanates from a commercial or
industrial establishment, the owner or operator of such establishment shall
also retain on-site written record of the discharge and the actions taken to
prevent its recurrence. Such records shall be retained for at least three
years.
(Ord. 10, 2005 Series, passed 1-24-2006)
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 52.40 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Whenever the city finds that a person has violated a prohibition or
failed to meet a requirement of this chapter, the city may order compliance by
written notice of violation to the responsible person. Such notice may require
without limitation:
      (1)   The performance of monitoring, analyses, and reporting;
      (2)   The elimination of illicit connections or discharges;
      (3)   That violating discharges, practices, or operations shall cease and
desist;
      (4)   The abatement or remediation of stormwater pollution or
contamination hazards and the restoration of any affected property;
      (5)   Payment of a fine to cover administrative and remediation costs;
and
      (6)   The implementation of source control or treatment BMPs.
   (B)   (1)   If abatement of a violation and/or restoration of affected
property is required, the notice shall set forth a deadline within which such
remediation or restoration must be completed.
      (2)   Said notice shall further advise that, should the violator fail to
remediate or restore within the established deadline, the work may be done by a
designated governmental agency or a contractor and the expense thereof shall be
charged to the violator.
   (C)   (1)   The city may commence appropriate legal action and/or seek
equitable relief, including injunctive relief, against any person who fails to
abate a violation and/or restore an affected property prior to the deadline
established in the notice of violation.
      (2)   The notice of violation shall be mailed to the property owner at
the last known address listed on the current tax assessment roll, or by
personally serving, or by causing to be personally served, the property owner
with a written notice of violation.
(Ord. 10, 2005 Series, passed 1-24-2006) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.41 APPEAL OF NOTICE OF VIOLATION.
   Any person receiving a notice of violation may appeal the determination
directly to the Mayor. The notice of appeal must be received within ten days
from the date of the notice of violation. Hearing on the appeal before the
Mayor or his or her designee shall take place within 15 days from the date of
receipt of the notice of appeal. The decision reached at the appealing hearing
shall be final.
(Ord. 10, 2005 Series, passed 1-24-2006) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.42 ENFORCEMENT MEASURES AFTER APPEAL.
   If the violation has not been corrected pursuant to the requirements set
forth in the notice of violation, or, in the event of an appeal, within ten
days of the decision reached at the appeal hearing upholding the original
violation, then representatives of the city shall enter upon the subject
private property and are authorized to take any and all measures necessary to
abate the violation and/or restore the property. It shall be unlawful for any
person, owner, agent, or person in possession of any premises to refuse to
allow the city representatives or designated contractor to enter upon the
premises for the purposes set forth above.
(Ord. 10, 2005 Series, passed 1-24-2006) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.43 COST OF ABATEMENT OF THE VIOLATION.
   (A)   Within 30 days after abatement of the violation, the owner of the
property will be notified of the cost of abatement, including administrative
costs. The property owner may file a written protest objecting to the amount of
the assessment within ten days. If the amount due is not paid within a timely
manner as determined by the decision of the city or by the expiration of the
time in which to file an appeal, the charges shall become a special assessment
against the property and shall constitute a lien on the property for the amount
of the assessment.
   (B)   Any person violating any of the provisions of this section shall
become liable to the city by reason of such violation. The liability shall be
paid in not more than 12 equal payments. Interest at the rate of 6% per annum
shall be assessed on the balance due, beginning 30 days following the due date
stated in the notification from the city.
(Ord. 10, 2005 Series, passed 1-24-2006) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.44 INJUNCTIVE RELIEF.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to violate any provision or fail to
comply with any of the requirements of this chapter. If a person has violated
or continues to violate the provisions of this chapter, the city may petition
for a preliminary or permanent injunction restraining the person from
activities which would create further violations or compelling the person to
perform abatement or remediation of the violation.
(Ord. 10, 2005 Series, passed 1-24-2006) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.45 ALTERNATIVES TO ENFORCEMENT PROCEEDINGS.
   In lieu of enforcement proceedings, penalties, and remedies authorized by
this chapter, the city may impose, upon a violator, alternative compensatory
actions, such as storm drain stenciling, attendance at compliance workshops,
creek cleanup, and the like.
(Ord. 10, 2005 Series, passed 1-24-2006) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.46 VIOLATIONS DEEMED A PUBLIC NUISANCE.
   In addition to the enforcement processes and penalties provided, any
condition caused or permitted to exist in violation of any of the provisions of
this chapter that is a threat to public health, safety, and welfare, and is
declared and deemed a nuisance, and may be summarily abated or restored at the
violator’s expense, and/or a civil action to abate, enjoin, or otherwise compel
the cessation of such nuisance may be taken.
(Ord. 10, 2005 Series, passed 1-24-2006) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.47 REMEDIES NOT EXCLUSIVE.
   The remedies listed in this chapter are not exclusive of any other remedies
available under any applicable federal, state, or local law and it is within
the discretion of the city to seek cumulative remedies.
(Ord. 10, 2005 Series, passed 1-24-2006)
§ 52.48 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This chapter shall be in full force and effect from and after its adoption
and publication, as required by law.
(Ord. 10, 2005 Series, passed 1-24-2006)
§ 52.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating the provisions of this chapter shall, upon
conviction thereof, be fined not less than $200 nor more than $10,000. Each day
in which any such violation shall continue shall be deemed a separate offense.
   (B)   Any person violating any section of this chapter shall become liable
to the city for any expense, loss or damage caused to the city by reason of
such violation, including but not limited to, any clean-up, evacuation,
administrative, or other expenses, including legal expenses incurred. The City
Council is hereby directed to initiate proceedings on behalf of the city in any
court having jurisdiction over such matters as are necessary to recover costs
to the city caused by said violation.
(Ord. 10, 2005 Series, passed 1-24-2006)
CHAPTER 53: WATER
Section
Water Emergencies
   
53.01   Water emergency regulations
WATER EMERGENCIES
§ 53.01 WATER EMERGENCY REGULATIONS.
   (A)   A state of emergency shall be in effect as a result of a declaration
by the Mayor, under the provisions of KRS Chapter 39B and/or the provisions of
Resolution No. 26, 2012. The state of emergency relates to a shortage of water
being produced and distributed by the City of Ashland.
   (B)   Once the state of emergency is in effect, the Mayor shall have the
discretionary authority to regulate and control the operation of businesses
within the corporate limits of the city that utilize water in their operation.
Such authority shall include limiting the number of hours of operation or
shutting down altogether those non-essential businesses, such as, but not
limited to, car washes and laundromats until such time as water distribution is
restored to the normal level of operation. City law enforcement officers may be
used to enforce this section.
   (C)   The Mayor shall cause notice to be given to the business affected by
such regulation in a manner sufficient to insure compliance. Once notified
violators who refuse to curtail their operations per city directions shall be
subject to penalties provided under the provisions of KRS 534.040.
   (D)   For the reasons set forth above, an emergency is hereby declared to
exist and the provisions of this section shall become effective immediately
upon its adoption by two-thirds or more of the legislative body.
(Ord. 01, 2014, passed 2-6-2014)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
71.   TRAFFIC RULES
      
72.   PARKING REGULATIONS
      
73.   RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
      
74.   TRUCKS
      
75.   TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
      
76.   PARKING SCHEDULES
CHAPTER 70: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
General Regulations
   
70.01   Definitions
   
70.02   Required obedience to traffic directions
   
70.03   Powers and duties of Police Department
   
70.04   Authority for enforcement
   
70.05   Temporary regulations
Traffic-Control Devices
   
70.20   Signal legends
   
70.21   Establishment and maintenance of traffic-control devices
   
70.22   Obedience to signals
   
70.23   Interference with signals
   
70.24   Unauthorized signals or markings
   
70.25   Devices to be legible and in proper position
   
70.26   Temporary disregard of devices by police officers
 
   
70.99   Penalty
GENERAL REGULATIONS
§ 70.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this title, the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLES. Vehicles of the Fire Department or Police
Department, vehicles of the Commonwealth Attorney’s office when on official
business, and ambulances on an authorized emergency run.
   BOULEVARD. Any legally designated street at which cross traffic is required
to stop before entering or crossing the BOULEVARD.
   BUSINESS DISTRICT. Any portion of any street between two consecutive
intersections in which 50% or more of the frontage on either side of the street
is used for business purposes.
   CROSSWALK. The portion of the roadway included within the extension of the
sidewalk across any intersection, and other portions of the roadway between two
intersections that may be legally designated as crossing places and marked by
stanchions, paint lines, or otherwise.
   CURB. The boundary of that portion of the street used for vehicles, whether
marked by curbstones or not.
   INTERSECTION. The part of the public way embraced within the extensions of
the street lines of two or more streets which join at an angle, whether or not
one street crosses the other.
   OFFICIAL TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES. All signs, signals, warnings, directions,
markings, and devices placed or erected or maintained by authority of the Chief
of Police.
   ONE-WAY STREET. A street on which vehicles are permitted to move in one
direction only.
   OPERATOR. Every person who is in actual physical control of the guidance,
starting, and stopping of a vehicle.
   PARK. When applied to vehicles, to leave a vehicle standing, whether
occupied or not, for a period of time longer than is necessary to receive or
discharge passengers or property.
   PEDESTRIAN. Any person afoot.
   PLAY STREET. Any street or portion thereof so designated by the Chief of
Police and reserved as a play area for children, from which all traffic is
barred, except vehicles to and from abutting properties.
   POLICE DEPARTMENT. The Police Department or other persons or agency
authorized to perform the duties of §
70.03 or any other acts necessary to implement and enforce this traffic code.
   PUBLIC WAY. The entire width between property lines of every way, dedicated
passway, or street set aside for public travel, except bridle paths and
footpaths.
   REVERSE TURN. To turn a vehicle on any street in such a manner as to proceed
in the opposite direction.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY. The privilege of the immediate and preferential use of the
street.
   ROADWAY. The portion of any street, improved, designated, or ordinarily used
for vehicular travel.
   SIDEWALK. The portion of the street between the curb and the property line
intended for the use of pedestrians.
   STOPPING. As applied to vehicles, to stop a vehicle longer than is actually
necessary to receive or discharge passengers.
   STREET. Every public way, including alleys.
   TRAFFIC. Pedestrians, ridden or herded animals, vehicles, buses, and other
conveyances, individually or collectively, while using any street for the
purpose of travel.
   VEHICLE. Every device in, on, or by which any person or property is or may
be transported or drawn on any street, except devices moved by human power or
used exclusively on stationary rails or tracks.
(Prior Code, § 70.01)
§ 70.02 REQUIRED OBEDIENCE TO TRAFFIC DIRECTIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to fail or refuse to comply with
any lawful order, signal, or direction given by a uniformed police officer, or
to fail or refuse to comply with any of the traffic regulations of this traffic
code.
   (B)   The provisions of this traffic code shall apply to the driver of any
vehicle owned or used in the service of the United States government, this
state, county, or city, and it shall be unlawful for any driver to violate any
of the provisions of this traffic code, except as otherwise permitted in this
traffic code or by state statute.
   (C)   Every person propelling any pushcart or riding a bicycle or an animal
on any roadway, and every person driving any animal on any roadway, and every
person driving any animal-drawn vehicle shall be subject to the provisions of
this traffic code applicable to the driver of any vehicle, except those
provisions of this traffic code which by their very nature can have no
application.
(Prior Code, § 70.02) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.03 POWERS AND DUTIES OF POLICE DEPARTMENT.
   It shall be the duty of the Police Department to direct all traffic in
conformance with this traffic code and to enforce the traffic regulations as
set forth in this traffic code, to make arrests for traffic violations, to
investigate accidents, and to cooperate with other officers of the city in the
administration of the traffic
laws, and in developing ways and means to improve traffic conditions.
(Prior Code, § 70.03)
§ 70.04 AUTHORITY FOR ENFORCEMENT.
   Authority to direct and enforce all traffic regulations of this city in
accordance with the provisions of this traffic code and to make arrests for
traffic violations is given to the Police Department, and, except in case of
emergency, it shall be unlawful for any other person to direct or attempt to
direct traffic by voice, hand, whistle, or any other signal.
(Prior Code, § 70.04) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.05 TEMPORARY REGULATIONS.
   When required for the convenience and safety of the public and to alleviate
unusual traffic problems, the Chief of Police or other authorized city official
shall, at his or her discretion, have authority to impose traffic regulations
as he or she may deem necessary for temporary periods not to exceed two weeks.
If these temporary regulations are necessary for a period longer than two
weeks, the City Clerk shall be notified in writing of the extended order.
(Prior Code, § 70.05)
TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES
§ 70.20 SIGNAL LEGENDS.
   Whenever traffic is regulated or controlled exclusively by a traffic-control
sign or signs exhibiting the words “Go,” “Caution,” or “Stop,” or exhibiting
different colored lights for purposes of traffic control, the following colors
only shall be used, and these terms and lights shall indicate and be obeyed as
follows.
   (A)   Green alone or “Go.” Vehicular traffic facing the signal may proceed
straight through or turn right or left unless a sign at that place prohibits
either turn. However, vehicular traffic shall yield the right-of-way to other
vehicles and to pedestrians lawfully within the intersection at the time the
signal is exhibited.
   (B)   Steady yellow alone or “Caution” when shown following the green or
“Go” signal. Vehicular traffic facing a steady yellow signal is thereby warned
that the related green movement is being terminated or that a red indication
will be exhibited immediately thereafter when vehicular traffic shall not enter
the intersection. Vehicular traffic facing a steady yellow signal may enter and
clear the intersection.
   (C)   Red alone or double red or “Stop.” Vehicular traffic facing the signal
shall stop before entering the nearest crosswalk at an intersection or at
another point as may be indicated by a clearly visible line, and shall remain
standing until green or “Go” is shown alone.
   (D)   Flashing red alone. Vehicular traffic facing the signal shall stop
before entering the nearest crosswalk at an intersection or at another point as
may be indicated by a clearly visible line, and shall not again proceed until
it can do so without danger.
   (E)   Flashing amber alone. Vehicular traffic facing the signal shall reduce
its speed and proceed cautiously across the intersection controlled by the
signal.
   (F)   “Yield Right-of-Way.” Vehicular traffic facing the “Yield Right-of-
Way” sign shall bear the primary responsibility of safely entering the primary
intersecting or merging right-of-way. All traffic facing the sign shall yield
the right-of-way to all vehicles and pedestrians within the primary
intersecting or merging right-of-way. No vehicle facing a “Yield Right-of-Way”
sign shall enter the merging or intersecting right-of-way at a speed in excess
of 15 mph, except that this speed limit shall not apply to vehicles entering an
expressway.
   (G)   Lane lights. When lane lights are installed over any street for the
purpose of controlling the direction of flow of traffic, vehicular traffic
shall move only in traffic lanes over which green arrows appear. However, when
flashing amber lights appear above a lane, all left turns shall be made from
that lane. Where red arrows appear above the lanes, vehicles shall not move
against them. If flashing amber lights show above a lane, that lane shall be
used only for passing and for left turns unless a sign at that place prohibits
the turn.
(Prior Code, § 70.15) Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Accident involving death or serious injury; penalty for not reporting, see
KRS 189.990
   Traffic-control signals, see KRS 189.338
§ 70.21 ESTABLISHMENT AND MAINTENANCE OF TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES.
   The city shall establish and maintain all official traffic-control devices
necessary within the city. All traffic-control devices, including signs, shall
be employed to indicate one particular warning or regulation, shall be uniform,
and as far as possible shall be placed uniformly. All traffic-control devices
and signs shall conform to required state specifications.
(Prior Code, § 70.16)
§ 70.22 OBEDIENCE TO SIGNALS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the driver of any vehicle to disobey the
signal of any official traffic-control device placed in accordance with the
provisions of this traffic code or of a traffic barrier or sign erected by any
of the public departments or public utilities of the city, or any electric
signal, gate,
or watchman at railroad crossings, unless otherwise directed by a police
officer. However, the type and the right to or necessity for the barrier or
sign must be approved by the city.
   (B)   The sign, signal, marking, or barrier shall have the same authority as
the personal direction of a police officer.
(Prior Code, § 70.17) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.23 INTERFERENCE WITH SIGNALS.
   No person, shall without, authority attempt to or in fact alter, deface,
injure, knock down, or remove any official control device or any railroad sign
or signal, or any inscription, shield, or insignia thereon, or any part
thereof.
(Prior Code, § 70.18) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.24 UNAUTHORIZED SIGNALS OR MARKINGS.
   (A)   (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, maintain, or
display on or in view of any street any unauthorized sign, signal, marking, or
device which purports to be or is an imitation of or resembles an official
traffic device or railroad sign or signal which attempts or purports to direct
the movement of traffic, or which conceals or hides from view or interferes
with the effectiveness of any official control device or any railroad sign or
signal.
      (2)   No person shall place or maintain, nor shall any public authority
permit on any street, any traffic sign or signal or any commercial advertising.
      (3)   Nothing in this section shall be construed as restricting any
public department or public utility of the city in any emergency or temporarily
from marking or erecting any traffic barrier or sign whose placing has been
approved by the city.
   (B)   Every prohibited sign, signal, or marking is declared to be a public
nuisance and the city is empowered forthwith to remove it or cause it to be
removed.
(Prior Code, § 70.19) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.25 DEVICES TO BE LEGIBLE AND IN PROPER POSITION.
   No provision of this traffic code for which signs or any other traffic-
control device is required shall be enforceable against an alleged violator if
at the time and place of the alleged violation the required device was not in
proper position and sufficiently legible to be seen by an ordinarily observant
person.
(Prior Code, § 70.20)
§ 70.26 TEMPORARY DISREGARD OF DEVICES BY POLICE OFFICERS.
   In an emergency, any police officer may at his or her discretion disregard
traffic-control lights or signals or established regulations in order to
facilitate the movement of traffic.
(Prior Code, § 70.21)
§ 70.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who violates any provision of this traffic code where no other
penalty is specifically provided shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be
fined not less than $20 nor more than $500.
(Prior Code, § 70.99)
CHAPTER 71: TRAFFIC RULES
Section
Operation Generally
   
71.001   Obstructing traffic
   
71.002   Reverse or U turns
   
71.003   Backing vehicles
   
71.004   Vehicles crossing sidewalks
   
71.005   School zone speed limits
Accidents
   
71.020   Duty of operator
   
71.021   Accident report
Prohibitions
   
71.035   Injury to street by vehicles
   
71.036   Right-of-way of emergency vehicles; following emergency vehicles;
driving over fire hose
   
71.037   Smoke emission or other nuisance
   
71.038   Driving on floodwall
   
71.039   All-terrain vehicles prohibited on floodwalls and levees
   
71.040   All-terrain vehicles prohibited on streets or highways in the city
Parades
   
71.055   Definitions
   
71.056   Permit required
   
71.057   Application for permit
   
71.058   Standards for issuance of permit
   
71.059   Notice of rejection of permit
   
71.060   Appeal procedure when permit denied
   
71.061   Alternative permit
   
71.062   Notice to city and other officials when permit issued
   
71.063   Contents of permit
   
71.064   Duties of permittee
   
71.065   Public conduct during parades
   
71.066   Revocation of permit
Railroads
   
71.080   Installation and maintenance of safety devices at crossings
   
71.999   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Traffic Schedules, see
Ch. 75
OPERATION GENERALLY
§ 71.001 OBSTRUCTING TRAFFIC.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to operate any vehicle or permit it to remain
standing in any street in such manner as to create an obstruction thereof.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to enter any
intersection or crosswalk unless there is sufficient space on the other side of
the intersection or crosswalk to accommodate the vehicle without obstructing
the passage of other vehicles or pedestrians, notwithstanding the indication of
any traffic-control signal which may be located at the intersection or
crosswalk.
   (C)   (1)   Any intersection deemed by the city to be of special or critical
importance to the movement of traffic shall be marked in a distinctive manner
in order to indicate its importance.
      (2)   Should the operator of any vehicle enter any intersection so marked
when there is insufficient room on the other side of the intersection to
accommodate the vehicle, the indication of any traffic-control signal
notwithstanding, he or she shall be deemed to have violated this division (C)
rather than division (B) above.
(Prior Code, § 71.01) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.002 REVERSE OR U TURNS.
   The operator of any vehicle shall not turn the vehicle so as to proceed in
the opposite direction unless the movement can be made in safety without
interfering with other traffic.
(KRS 189.330(8)) (Prior Code, § 71.02) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.003 BACKING VEHICLES.
   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to back the vehicle at
any intersection for the purpose of executing a turning movement. A vehicle
from any parking position shall be backed by the operator in such manner as to
proceed on the same side of the roadway in the lawful direction of travel.
(Prior Code, § 71.03) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.004 VEHICLES CROSSING SIDEWALKS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to drive within
any sidewalk space except at a permanent or temporary driveway or by special
permit from the Chief of Police or other authorized city official.
   (B)   (1)   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to drive
the vehicle out of any alley, driveway, building, or lot and across a sidewalk,
or its extension across the alley, unless the vehicle has been brought to a
complete stop immediately prior to crossing the sidewalk or its extension.
      (2)   On entering the roadway from the alley, driveway, or building, the
operator shall yield the right-of-way to all vehicles approaching on the
roadway.
      (3)   The operator of any vehicle intending to cross a sidewalk and turn
into an alley from the roadway may do so at low speed and with caution.
(Prior Code, § 71.04) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.005 SCHOOL ZONE SPEED LIMITS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, SCHOOL ZONE shall mean that
designated area along any street abutting school property where public or
common school buildings are now located or may be hereafter located, and
extending along the street for a distance of 200 yards, which is defined as
that 200 yards which extends 100 yards in each direction from a point on a line
drawn at right angles from the center of any such main school building as now
located, relocated, or hereafter constructed, and intersecting with any
abutting street.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation, to drive,
move, or operate any vehicle in the school zone at a greater rate of speed than
15 mph on any day in which public or common schools are held or maintained in
the school buildings, between the hours of 8:00 a.m. and 4:00 p.m.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person, while operating any vehicle in
the school zone, on any day or any hour mentioned in division (B) above, to
pass a traveling vehicle moving in the same direction in the school zone.
(Prior Code, § 71.05) (Ord. 5-1950, passed 7-3-1950) Penalty, see §
71.999
ACCIDENTS
§ 71.020 DUTY OF OPERATOR.
   It shall be the duty of the owner of, operator of, or passenger in any motor
vehicle which is involved in an accident, in which any person is injured or
property damaged, to stop immediately and ascertain the extent of the injury or
damage and render any assistance as may be needed.
(Prior Code, § 71.15) Penalty, see §
71.999
Statutory reference:
   Duty in case of accident, see KRS 189.580
§ 71.021 ACCIDENT REPORT.
   The operator, owner, or passenger involved in an accident resulting in the
injury or death of any person, or an accident in which property is damaged,
shall immediately report the accident or property damage to the Police
Department.
(Prior Code, § 71.16) Penalty, see §
71.999
PROHIBITIONS
§ 71.035 INJURY TO STREET BY VEHICLES.
   It shall be unlawful to operate any vehicle so constructed or so loaded as
to do injury to the surface of the street.
(Prior Code, § 71.25) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.036 RIGHT-OF-WAY OF EMERGENCY VEHICLES; FOLLOWING EMERGENCY VEHICLES;
DRIVING OVER FIRE HOSE.
   (A)   Upon the approach of an emergency vehicle equipped with, and
operating, one or more flashing, rotating, or oscillating red or blue lights
visible under normal conditions from a distance of 500 feet to the front of the
emergency vehicle; or when the driver is giving audible signal by siren,
exhaust whistle, or bell, the driver of every other vehicle shall yield the
right-of-way, immediately drive to a position parallel to and as close as
possible to the edge or curb of the highway clear of any intersection, and stop
and remain stopped until the emergency vehicle has passed, except when
otherwise directed by a police officer or firefighter.
   (B)   Upon the approach of any emergency vehicle operated in conformity with
the provisions of division (A) above, the operator of every vehicle shall
immediately stop clear of any intersection and shall remain stopped until the
emergency vehicle has passed, unless directed otherwise by a police officer or
firefighter.
   (C)   No operator of any vehicle, unless he or she is on official business,
shall follow any emergency vehicle being operated in conformity with the
provisions of division (A) above closer than 500 feet, nor shall he or she
drive into, park the vehicle into, or park the vehicle within the block where
the vehicle has stopped in answer to an emergency call or alarm, unless he or
she is directed otherwise by a police officer or firefighter.
   (D)   No vehicle, train, or other equipment shall be driven over any
unprotected hose of a fire department when the hose is laid down on any street,
private driveway, or track for use at any fire alarm unless the Fire Department
official in command consents that the hose be driven over.
   (E)   The provisions of division (F) shall apply to any driver approaching a
stationary;
      (1)   Emergency vehicle or public safety vehicle, when the emergency
vehicle or public safety vehicle is giving a signal by displaying alternately
flashing yellow, red, red and white, red and blue, or blue lights; or
      (2)   Disabled vehicle, when the disabled vehicle is displaying some type
of warning signal, such as emergency flashers, flares, or retroreflective
signals.
   (F)   The driver of a vehicle that is approaching a vehicle desribed in
division (E) above shall, while proceeding with due caution:
      (1)   Yield the right-of-way by moving to a lane not adjacent to that of
the vehicle, if:
         (a)   The person is driving on a highway having at least four lanes
with at least than two lanes proceeding in the same direction as the
approaching vehicle; and
         (b)   It is possible to make the lane change with due regard to safety
and traffic conditions.
      (2)   Reduce the speed of the vehicle, maintaining a safe speed to road
conditions, if the road has less than four lanes or if changing lanes would be
impossible or unsafe.
   (G)   This section does not operate to relieve the person who drives an
emergency vehicle from the duty to operate the vehicle with due regard for the
safety of all persons using the highway.
(KRS 189.930) (Prior Code, § 71.26) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.037 SMOKE EMISSION OR OTHER NUISANCE.
   Every vehicle when on a highway shall be so equipped as to make a minimum of
noise, smoke, or other nuisance, to protect the rights of other traffic, and to
promote the public safety.
(KRS 189.020) (Prior Code, § 71.27)   Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.038 DRIVING ON FLOODWALL.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to drive any vehicle upon the floodwall
of the city without first obtaining permission from the Mayor.
(Prior Code, § 71.28) (Ord. 74-1957, passed 8-5-1957) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.039 ALL-TERRAIN VEHICLES PROHIBITED ON FLOODWALLS AND LEVEES.
   All-terrain vehicles of whatever nature are prohibited from operation on any
property used or acquired for use with the floodwalls, levees, or similar
facilities which protect the city.
(Prior Code, § 71.29) (Ord. 2-1988, passed 3-1-1988) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.040 ALL-TERRAIN VEHICLES PROHIBITED ON STREETS OR HIGHWAYS IN THE CITY.
   The operation of all-terrain vehicles on any city street or public highway
in the city is prohibited.
(Ord. 12, 2000 Series, passed 9-26-2000) Penalty, see §
71.999
PARADES
§ 71.055 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PARADE. Any parade, march, ceremony, show, exhibition, pageant, run, race,
walk or procession of any kind, or any similar display in or on any street,
sidewalk, park, or other public place in the city.
   PARADE PERMIT. A permit required by this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 71.40) (Ord. 09, 2015 Series, passed 6-16-2015)
§ 71.056 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   No person or persons shall engage in, participate in, aid, form, or
start any parade unless a parade permit has been obtained from the Chief of
Police or other authorized city official.
   (B)   This subchapter shall not apply to:
      (1)   Funeral processions; or
      (2)   A governmental agency acting within the scope of its functions.
(Prior Code, § 71.41) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.057 APPLICATION FOR PERMIT.
   A person seeking issuance of a parade permit shall file an application with
the Chief of Police or other authorized city official on forms provided by the
official.
   (A)   Filing period. The application for a parade permit shall be filed not
less than five days or not more than 60 days before the date on which it is
proposed to conduct the parade.
   (B)   Application. The application for a parade permit shall set forth the
following information:
      (1)   The name, address, and telephone number of the person seeking to
conduct the parade;
      (2)   If the parade is proposed to be conducted for, on behalf of, or by
an organization, the name, address, and telephone number of the headquarters of
the organization and of the authorized and responsible heads of the
organization;
      (3)   The name, address, and telephone number of the person who will be
the parade chairperson and who will be responsible for its conduct;
      (4)   The date when the parade is to be conducted;
      (5)   The route to be traveled, the starting point, and the termination
point;
      (6)   The approximate number of persons, animals, and vehicles which will
constitute the parade, the type of animals, if any, and the description of the
vehicles;
      (7)   The hours when the parade will start and terminate;
      (8)   A statement as to whether the parade will occupy all or only a
portion of the width of the streets, sidewalk, park, or other public place
proposed to be traversed;
      (9)   The location by street of any assembly area for the parade;
      (10)   The time at which units of the parade will begin to assemble at
any assembly area or areas;
      (11)   The interval of space to be maintained between units of the
parade;
      (12)   If the parade is designed to be held by and on behalf of or for
any person other than the applicant, the applicant for the permit shall file a
communication in writing from the person authorizing the applicant to apply for
the permit on his or her behalf; and
      (13)   Any additional information reasonably necessary to a fair
determination as to whether a permit should issue.
   (C)   Fee. There shall be paid within three days of the issuance of a parade
permit by the applicant a fee for the issuance of the parade permit in an
amount not less than $100 nor more than $500. The exact amount of the fee for
any parade permit issued shall be determined by the Chief of Police based upon
his reasonable estimate of the expense to the city for the cost of police and
other city workers and the provision of extra services incurred as a result of
the issuance of the permit. Failure to timely pay the parade permit fee shall
be grounds for revocation of the permit.
(Prior Code, § 71.42) (Ord. 09, 2015 Series, passed 6-16-2015) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.058 STANDARDS FOR ISSUANCE OF PERMIT.
   The Chief of Police or other authorized city official shall issue a permit
when, from a consideration of the application and from other information
obtained, he or she finds that:
   (A)   The conduct of the parade will not substantially interrupt the safe
and orderly movement of other traffic contiguous to its route;
   (B)   The conduct of the parade will not require the diversion of so great a
number of police officers of the city to properly police the line of movement
and the areas contiguous thereto as to prevent normal police protection to the
city;
   (C)   The conduct of the parade will not require the diversion of so great a
number of ambulances as to prevent normal ambulance service to portions of the
city other than that to be occupied by the proposed line of march and areas
contiguous thereto;
   (D)   The concentration of persons, animals, and vehicles at assembly points
of the parade will not unduly interfere with proper fire and police protection
of or ambulance service to areas contiguous to the assembly areas;
   (E)   The conduct of the parade will not interfere with the movement of
firefighting equipment en route to a fire; and
   (F)   The parade is scheduled to move from its point of origin to its point
of termination expeditiously and without unreasonable delays en route.
(Prior Code, § 71.43) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.059 NOTICE OF REJECTION OF PERMIT.
   The Chief of Police or other authorized city official shall act on the
application for a parade permit within three days, Saturdays, Sundays, and
holidays excepted, after filing thereof. If he or she disapproves the
application, he or she shall mail to the applicant within the three days,
Saturdays, Sundays, and holidays excepted, after the date on which the
application was filed, a notice of his or her action stating the reasons for
his or her denial of the permit.
(Prior Code, § 71.44)
§ 71.060 APPEAL PROCEDURE WHEN PERMIT DENIED.
   Any person aggrieved shall have the right to appeal the denial of a parade
permit to the City Council. The appeal shall be taken within 30 days after
notice of denial. The City Council shall act on the appeal within 30 days after
its receipt.
(Prior Code, § 71.45)
§ 71.061 ALTERNATIVE PERMIT.
   The Chief of Police or other authorized city official, in denying an
application for a parade permit, shall be empowered to authorize the conduct of
the parade on a date, at a time, or over a route different than that named by
the applicant. An applicant desiring to accept an alternate permit shall file a
written notice of his or her acceptance. An alternate parade permit shall
conform to the requirements of and shall have the effect of a parade permit
under this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 71.46)
§ 71.062 NOTICE TO CITY AND OTHER OFFICIALS WHEN PERMIT ISSUED.
   Immediately on the issuance of a parade permit, a copy thereof shall be sent
to the following persons:
   (A)   The Mayor;
   (B)   The City Attorney;
   (C)   The Fire Chief; and
   (D)   The general manager or responsible head of each public utility, the
regular routes of whose vehicles will be affected by the route of the proposed
parade.
(Prior Code, § 71.47)
§ 71.063 CONTENTS OF PERMIT.
   Each parade permit shall state the following information:
   (A)   Starting time;
   (B)   Minimum speed;
   (C)   Maximum speed;
   (D)   Maximum interval of space to be maintained between the units of the
parade;
   (E)   The portions of the street, sidewalk, park, or other public place to
be traversed that may be occupied by the parade;
   (F)   The maximum length of the parade in miles or fractions thereof; and
   (G)   Other information as is reasonably necessary to the enforcement of
this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 71.48) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.064 DUTIES OF PERMITTEE.
   (A)   A permittee hereunder shall comply with all permit directions and
conditions and with all applicable laws and ordinances.
   (B)   The parade chairperson or other person heading or leading the activity
shall carry the parade permit on his or her person during the conduct of the
parade.
(Prior Code, § 71.49) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.065 PUBLIC CONDUCT DURING PARADES.
   (A)   Interference. No person shall unreasonably hamper, obstruct, impede,
or interfere with any parade or parade assembly or with any person, vehicle, or
animal participating or used in a parade.
   (B)   Driving through parades. No driver of a vehicle except a police car or
other emergency vehicle shall drive between the vehicles or persons comprising
a parade when the vehicles or persons are in motion and are conspicuously
designated as a parade.
(Prior Code, § 71.50) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.066 REVOCATION OF PERMIT.
   The city shall have the authority to revoke a parade permit issued hereunder
on application of the standards for issuance as herein set forth.
(Prior Code, § 71.51)
RAILROADS
§ 71.080 INSTALLATION AND MAINTENANCE OF SAFETY DEVICES AT CROSSINGS.
   (A)   (1)   The Chesapeake and Ohio Railway Company operating trains over
its tracks at grade crossings in the city shall install and operate at said
crossings safety devices of such kind and character as will give sufficient
warning of the approach of its trains and engines at the crossings for the
protection and safety of persons and vehicles using the streets at the
crossings.
      (2)   Such safety devices shall be installed and kept in operation by the
railroad company at each and all grade crossings of the Chesapeake and Ohio
Railroad tracks within the city for the safety and protection of the general
public using the streets at the crossings.
   (B)   The safety devices shall be installed and kept in operation by and at
the expense of the Chesapeake and Ohio Railway Company, which shall use all
reasonable diligence and effort to comply with this section with the least
possible delay and at the earliest possible date.
   (C)   Any failure of the Chesapeake and Ohio Railway Company to comply with
any of the provisions of this section shall be punishable as provided in §
71.999 and each and every day a violation of this section continues shall be
deemed a separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 71.65) (Ord. passed 4-3-1944) Penalty, see §
71.999
Statutory reference:
   Railroad crossings, see KRS 189.560
§ 71.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter for which no other
penalty is specifically provided shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be
fined not less than $20 nor more than $500.
   (B)   Any person who violates §
71.036 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be fined not less than $60
nor more than $500, or be imprisoned in the county jail for not more than 30
days, or both. (KRS 189.993(8))
   (C)   Whoever violates §
71.039 shall be fined not more than $300.
(Prior Code § 71.99)
   (D)   Violations of §
71.040 shall subject the offender to a $50 fine.
(Ord. 12, 2000 Series, passed 9-26-2000)
CHAPTER 72: PARKING REGULATIONS
Section
Parking Generally
   
72.001   Obstructional parking; double parking
   
72.002   Manner of parking
   
72.003   Limitations of stopping and parking
   
72.004   Restrictions and prohibitions on designated streets
   
72.005   Parking restricted to allow street cleaning
   
72.006   All-night parking
   
72.007   Parking on parade route
   
72.008   Parking on off-street facility
   
72.009   Owner responsibility
   
72.010   Parking in parks
   
72.011   Display of parked vehicle for sale
   
72.012   Parking with disabled permits
   
72.013   Parking on floodwall
   
72.014   Parking trucks carrying petroleum products
   
72.015   Bus stops
   
72.016   City park walking track
Impounding
   
72.030   City tow lots
   
72.031   Removal of abandoned or illegally parked vehicles
   
72.032   Removal of vehicle by owner-operator
   
72.033   Towing and custodian care charges
   
72.034   Supplemental emergency wrecker service
   
72.035   Reserved
   
72.036   Sale of vehicle
Snow Emergency
   
72.050   Announcement of snow emergency
   
72.051   Termination of emergency
   
72.052   Snow emergency routes
Cargo Vehicles
   
72.065   Definitions
   
72.066   Prohibition against parking unattended cargo vehicles
   
72.067   Illumination of areas designated to park cargo vehicles
   
72.068   Effective date
 
   
72.999   Penalty
PARKING GENERALLY
§ 72.001 OBSTRUCTIONAL PARKING; DOUBLE PARKING.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to leave any vehicle or any other
thing that may be a nuisance, obstruction, or hindrance in or on any street,
alley, or sidewalk within the city either during the day or night.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to stop or park any vehicle on the
roadway side of any other vehicle stopped or parked at the edge or curb of a
street.
(Prior Code, § 72.01) Penalty, see §
72.999
§ 72.002 MANNER OF PARKING.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to stop or park
the vehicle in a manner other than with its right-hand side toward and parallel
with the curb, except that where parking is permitted on the left side of a
one-way street, the left-hand side shall be so parked, and except for
commercial loading and unloading on one-way streets.
   (B)   No vehicle shall be parked or left standing on any street unless its
two right wheels are within six inches of and parallel with the curb, except
that on one-way streets where parking is permitted on the left side, the two
left wheels are to be within six inches of and parallel with the curb.
   (C)   No vehicle shall be backed to the curb on any street, except that
wagons and trucks may do so when loading and unloading provided that the
loading and unloading and delivery of property and material shall not consume
more than 30 minutes. This backing of trucks or wagons is prohibited at all
times and on all streets in the city where any truck or wagon so backed
interferes with the use of the roadway by moving vehicles or occupies road
space within ten feet of the center line of the street.
   (D)   The city may establish diagonal parking at certain places, requiring
the parking of vehicles at a certain angle to the curb and within a certain
portion of the roadway adjacent thereto. However, diagonal parking shall not be
established where the roadway space required therefor would be within ten feet
of the center line of any street. The diagonal parking places shall be
designated by suitable signs, and shall indicate by markings on the pavement
the required angle and the width of the roadway space within which the vehicle
shall park.
   (E)   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to so park the
vehicle that any part thereof shall extend beyond the lines marking the side or
the rear of the space assigned for one vehicle.
(Prior Code, § 72.02) Penalty, see §
72.999
§ 72.003 LIMITATIONS OF STOPPING AND PARKING.
   (A)   No person shall stop a vehicle, leave it standing, or cause it to stop
or to be left standing upon the roadway. However, this section shall not be
construed to prevent parking in front of a private residence off the roadway or
street area where such parking is otherwise permitted as long as the vehicle so
parked does not impede the flow of traffic. This section also shall not apply
to:
      (1)   A vehicle that has been disabled on the main-traveled portion of a
roadway in such a manner and to such extent that it is impossible to avoid the
occupation of the main-traveled portion or impracticable to remove it from the
roadway until repairs have been made or sufficient help obtained for its
removal;
      (2)   Motor vehicles when required to stop in obedience to the provisions
of any section of state law or any city traffic ordinance, regulation, or sign
or the command of any peace officer;
      (3)   Vehicles operating as common carriers of passengers for hire and
school buses taking passengers on such a vehicle or discharging passengers
therefrom. However, no such vehicle shall stop for such purposes at a place on
the roadway which does not afford reasonable visibility to approaching motor
vehicles from both directions; and/or
      (4)   Any vehicle required to stop by reason of an obstruction to its
progress.
   (B)   Whenever any police officer finds a vehicle standing upon a roadway in
violation of this section, he or she may move the vehicle, or require the
operator or other person in charge of the vehicle to move it, to a position off
the paved or improved or main-traveled part of the roadway.
   (C)   Whenever any police officer finds a vehicle unattended upon any bridge
or causeway or in a tunnel where the vehicle constitutes an obstruction to
traffic, the officer may provide for the removal of the vehicle to the nearest
garage or other place of safety.
   (D)   No person shall stop or park a vehicle except when necessary to avoid
conflict with other traffic or in compliance with the directions of a police
officer or traffic-control device, in the following places:
      (1)   On a sidewalk;
      (2)   In front of sidewalk ramps provided for disabled persons;
      (3)   In front of a public or private driveway;
      (4)   Within an intersection, or within 15 feet of any street corner;
      (5)   At any place where official signs prohibit stopping or parking;
      (6)   Within 30 feet upon the approach to any flashing beacon, stop sign,
or traffic-control signal located at the side of a roadway; or
      (7)   Within 15 feet of a fire hydrant.
   (E)   No person shall move a vehicle not lawfully under his or her control
into any such prohibited area.
   (F)   The restrictions in division (D)(5) above shall not apply to police
officers when operating properly identified vehicles during performance of his,
her, or their official duties.
(KRS 189.450) (Prior Code, § 72.03) (Ord. passed 5-6-1946; Ord. 100-1958,
passed 10-6-1958) Penalty, see §
72.999
§ 72.004 RESTRICTIONS AND PROHIBITIONS ON DESIGNATED STREETS.
   (A)   The provisions of this section prohibiting the stopping and parking of
a vehicle shall apply at all times or at those times herein specified or as
indicated on official signs, except when it is necessary to stop a vehicle to
avoid conflict with other traffic or in compliance with the directions of a
police officer or official traffic-control devices.
   (B)   The provisions of this section imposing a time limit on parking shall
not relieve any person from his or her duty to observe other and more
restrictive provisions prohibiting or limiting the stopping or parking of
vehicles in specific places or at specified times.
   (C)   When signs are erected in compliance with the provisions of division
(F) below giving notice thereof, no person shall park a vehicle at any time on
any street so marked by official signs.
   (D)   When a curb has been painted in compliance with the provisions of
division (F) below, no person shall park a vehicle at any time at or adjacent
to any curb so marked.
   (E)   When signs are erected in compliance with the provisions of division
(F) below, in each block giving notice thereof, no person shall park a vehicle
between the hours specified by official signs on any day except Sundays on any
street so marked.
   (F)   (1)   The city shall determine on what streets or portions thereof
stopping or parking shall be restricted or prohibited. Whenever under authority
of or by this traffic code or any other ordinance any parking limit is imposed
or parking is prohibited on designated streets, or parking areas are restricted
to disabled parking, appropriate signs shall be erected giving notice thereof.
However, in lieu of erecting the signs or in conjunction therewith, the face
and top of a curb or curbs at or adjacent to which parking is prohibited at all
times may be painted a solid yellow color.
      (2)   No regulations or restrictions shall be effective unless the signs
have been erected and are in place or the curbs are painted yellow at the time
of any alleged offense, except in the case of those parking restrictions which
by their very nature would not require the signs and markings.
   (G)   When signs are erected in compliance with division (F) above in each
block giving notice thereof, no person shall park a vehicle for a time longer
than specified on official signs any day except Sunday and on any street so
marked.
(Prior Code, § 72.04) Penalty, see §
72.999
§ 72.005 PARKING RESTRICTED TO ALLOW STREET CLEANING.
   The city is authorized to designate street cleaning areas and shall provide
suitable signs and markings on the street to be cleaned, restricting parking on
that particular day. It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to
stop on any street so designated.
(Prior Code, § 72.05) Penalty, see §
72.999
§ 72.006 ALL-NIGHT PARKING.
   It shall be unlawful for anyone to park in any one place any vehicle on any
of the public ways or streets of the city for a period of 24 hours or longer.
Any vehicle left parked in any one place on any of
the public ways or streets of the city for a period of 24 hours or longer shall
be deemed abandoned, and shall be subject to all existing regulations of the
city pertaining to abandoned motor vehicles.
(Prior Code, § 72.06) Penalty, see §
72.999
§ 72.007 PARKING ON PARADE ROUTE.
   (A)   The Chief of Police or other authorized city official shall have the
authority, whenever in his or her judgment it is necessary, to prohibit or
restrict the parking of vehicles along a street or part thereof constituting a
part of the route of a parade or procession, to erect temporary traffic signs
to that effect, and to prohibit and prevent parking.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to park or leave unattended any vehicle in
violation of the signs or directions.
(Prior Code, § 72.07) Penalty, see §
72.999
§ 72.008 PARKING ON OFF-STREET FACILITY.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the driver of a motor vehicle to park or
abandon the vehicle or drive on or otherwise trespass on another’s property, or
on an area developed as an off-street parking facility, without the consent of
the owner, lessee, or person in charge of the property or facility.
   (B)   If at any time a vehicle is parked, abandoned, or otherwise trespasses
in violation of division (A) above, the owner, lessee, or person in charge of
the property or facility may have the unauthorized motor vehicle removed in
accordance with the provisions of §§
72.030 through
72.032.
   (C)   Every property owner or operator of an off-street parking facility
shall post signs stating thereon that the property or parking lot or facility
is privately owned and that an unauthorized vehicle will be removed at the
owner’s expense before exercising the authority granted in division (B) above.
(Prior Code, § 72.08) Penalty, see §
72.999
Statutory reference:
   Removal of vehicles by owners of private parking lots; signs, see KRS
189.725
§ 72.009 OWNER RESPONSIBILITY.
   If any vehicle is found illegally parked in violation of any provisions of
this subchapter regulating stopping, standing, or parking of vehicles, and the
identity of the driver cannot be determined, the owner or person in whose name
the vehicle is registered shall be held prima facie responsible for the
violation.
(Prior Code, § 72.09) Penalty, see §
72.999
§ 72.010 PARKING IN PARKS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to park any motor vehicle in or on any
section of any public park, playground, play lot, or tot lot within the city
not designed as a parking area or designed and regularly maintained as a
roadway. However, nothing contained in this section shall be construed as
prohibiting the parking of a motor vehicle parallel to a designated and
regularly maintained roadway in any park or playground where at least two
wheels of the motor vehicle are resting on the roadway.
(Prior Code, § 72.10)’ Penalty, see §
72.999
§ 72.011 DISPLAY OF PARKED VEHICLE FOR SALE.
   It shall be unlawful to park a motor vehicle displayed for sale or a motor
vehicle on which demonstrations are being made on any street.
(Prior Code, § 72.11) Penalty, see §
72.999
§ 72.012 PARKING WITH DISABLED PERMITS.
   (A)   Any other provision to the contrary notwithstanding, a motor vehicle
bearing a decal in its front windshield issued by the County Clerk pursuant to
appropriate county ordinances for disabled persons, when operated by a disabled
person or when transporting a disabled person, may be parked in a designated
disabled parking place, or when parked in a metered parking space may be parked
for two hours for no fee, or when parked where any parking limit is imposed may
be parked for two hours in excess of the parking limit. The motor vehicle may
be parked in a loading zone for that period of time necessary to permit
entrance or exit of the disabled person to or from the parked vehicle, but in
no circumstances longer than 30 minutes.
   (B)   This section shall not permit parking in a “No Stopping” or “No
Parking” zone nor where parking is prohibited for the purpose of creating a
fire lane or to accommodate heavy traffic during morning, afternoon, or evening
hours, nor permit a motor vehicle to be parked in such a manner as to
constitute a traffic hazard.
(Prior Code, § 72.12) Penalty, see §
72.999
§ 72.013 PARKING ON FLOODWALL.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to park any vehicle upon the floodwall
without first obtaining permission from the Mayor.
(Prior Code, § 72.13) (Ord. 74-1957, passed 8-5-1957) Penalty, see §
72.999
§ 72.014 PARKING TRUCKS CARRYING PETROLEUM PRODUCTS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to park and leave
standing for a period in excess of two hours any tractor-trailer vehicle or any
vehicle which contains petroleum products such as liquid gas, propane gas, and
any and all other liquid gas or gasoline within the city limits.
(Prior Code, § 72.14) (Ord. 1-1977, passed 3-21-1977) Penalty, see §
72.999
§ 72.015 BUS STOPS.
   Bus stops shall be selected by the Parking Committee. The bus stops
designated by the Parking Committee shall be 65 feet long where it is feasible.
(Prior Code, § 72.15) (Ord. passed 5-6-1946)
§ 72.016 CITY PARK WALKING TRACK.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to drive, park or leave standing
any car, truck, motorcycle, or other motor vehicle upon the Catlettsburg City
Park Walking Track.
   (B)   This section shall take effect from and after its passage, approval,
and publication as required by law.
(Ord. 10, passed 8-18-1992) Penalty, see §
72.999
IMPOUNDING
§ 72.030 CITY TOW LOTS.
   City tow lots shall be maintained and operated on a 24-hour service and
shall have storage facilities to take care of all vehicles towed by city and
contract wreckers. The city tow lots which are designated for storage of all
motor vehicles towed by city wreckers or contract wreckers shall be secured in
such a manner as to preclude tampering with vehicles stored therein and shall
be required to take all necessary steps to prevent damage accruing to such
vehicles while in their custody.
(Prior Code, § 72.20)
§ 72.031 REMOVAL OF ABANDONED OR ILLEGALLY PARKED VEHICLES.
   All motor vehicles abandoned or illegally parked on the public streets and
ways of the city, or parked in violation of §§
72.001 through
72.010, (with the exception of §
72.005), shall be removed at the direction of the Police Department by a city
wrecker or by contract wrecker employed pursuant to §
72.034 and shall be placed in custody of city tow lots.
(Prior Code, § 72.21)
§ 72.032 REMOVAL OF VEHICLE BY OWNER-OPERATOR.
   (A)   (1)   An abandoned or illegally parked vehicle may be removed by the
owner or operator of the vehicle at any time prior to the vehicle becoming
physically attached to a wrecker or tow truck.
      (2)   After a vehicle has been physically attached to a wrecker, but
before the wrecker has left the scene, the owner or operator of the vehicle may
take possession of the vehicle only on payment to the wrecker driver of the
appropriate fee in return for which the wrecker driver shall issue a release to
the owner or operator. Such release shall be in the form of a receipt furnished
by the city and signed by the driver of the wrecker acknowledging payment of
the appropriate fee. Each driver of a city wrecker and driver or owner of each
contract wrecker shall make a daily report to the city of each such release
issued during the preceding 24-hour period and shall remit with the report all
fees collected during the period.
   (B)   Neither the removal of a vehicle by an owner or operator as referred
to in division (A)(1) above nor the issuance of the release referred to in
division (A)(2) above shall be construed as relieving the owner or operator of
any such vehicle from responsibility for any violation of the traffic code with
which he or she may be charged.
(Prior Code, § 72.22)
§ 72.033 TOWING AND CUSTODIAN CARE CHARGES.
   (A)   A towing charge as established by City Council for each hour or
fraction of an hour required for towing shall be made for each motor vehicle.
This charge shall be paid by the owner of the vehicle before it is released.
Where it is necessary to use more than one wrecker or other additional
equipment in moving or recovering a vehicle, an additional charge as
established by City Council per hour or fraction of an hour shall be assessed
for each additional wrecker or additional equipment used.
   (B)   The city tow lots shall charge an amount agreed to by the City Council
for storage and handling. It shall be the duty of the custodian of the city tow
lots on presentation of a proper release to collect all towing charges and
storage charges from the owner of the vehicle, and the custodian shall account
for and remit all charges so collected to the city at least every 72 hours.
(Prior Code, § 72.23)
§ 72.034 SUPPLEMENTAL EMERGENCY WRECKER SERVICE.
   The Chief of Police or other authorized city official, upon approval by the
Mayor in accordance with KRS 83A.130(8), may contract with independent wreckers
and award contracts for a one-year period. The independent wreckers shall
furnish supplementary emergency wrecker services and these services shall be
performed on a 24-hour basis in lieu of or as a supplement to the regular city
wreckers. The wrecker’s qualifications shall be determined by the Chief of
Police or other authorized city official. The wreckers shall be equipped to
perform the services with efficiency to conform with the charges set forth by
§§
72.032(A)(2) and
72.033. The contractor is to protect the city by furnishing insurance fully
covered as to public liability, property damage, cargo, worker’s compensation,
and any other insurance necessary in the performance of its duties.
(Prior Code, § 72.24)
§ 72.035 RESERVED.
§ 72.036 SALE OF VEHICLE.
   (A)   (1)   Any person engaged in the business of storing or towing motor
vehicles, who has complied with the notification requirements of KRS 281.928,
shall have a lien on the motor vehicle and its contents, except as set forth in
division (B), for the applicable and reasonable charges assessed in accordance
with KRS 281.926 and 281.932, as long as it remains in his or her possession.
      (2)   If after a period of 45 days, the applicable and reasonable charges
assessed in accordance with KRS 281.926 and 281.932 have not been paid, the
motor vehicle and its contents, except as set forth in division (B) of this
section, may be sold to pay the charges after the owner and any lienholder have
been notified by certified mail at the addresses specified in KRS 281.928(1),
ten days prior to the time and place of the sale. If the proceeds of the sale
of any vehicle pursuant to this section are insufficient to satisfy accrued
charges, the sale and collection of proceeds shall not constitute a waiver or
release of responsibility for payment of unpaid charges by the owner or
responsible casualty insurer of the vehicle. A lien on a vehicle under this
section shall be subject to prior recorded liens, unless released by an
existing lienholder pursuant to division (A)(3).
      (3)   (a)   A lien holder having a prior recorded lien listed on the
title issued by the Commonwealth of Kentucky shall be notified by certified
mail within the first ten days of impoundment in accordance with KRS 281.928.
         (b)   The notification, in addition to the requirements of KRS 281.928
include the make, model, license number, vehicle identification number, owner’s
name and last known address, and tentative date of sale for the vehicle, and
state that the towing company or storage facility seeks to obtain a new title
free and clear of any liens, excluding tax liens.
         (c)   If the certified letter required under this paragraph is not
sent within the ten days by the towing and storage company, then only ten days
of storage may be charged.
         (d)   The lien holder has the right to take possession of the motor
vehicle after showing proof of lien still enforced and paying the reasonable or
agreed towing and storage charged on the motor vehicle.
         (e)   If a lienholder does not exercise the right to take possession
of the motor vehicle under this paragraph within 45 days of notification, the
tow company or storage facility may obtain a new title under KRS 186A.145 free
and clear of any liens, excluding tax liens.
         (f)   Nothing in this section shall allowed the transfer of a vehicle
subject to a lien, except as provided in KRS 186A.190 or in division (A)(3)(e).
      (4)   If there are no lienholders required to be notified under KRS
281.920, 281.922, 281.924, 281.926, 281.928, 281.930, 281.932, 281.934,
281.936, 359.230, and 376.275, and the owner does not exercise the right to
take possession of the motor vehicle under this section within 45 days of
notification required under KRS 281.928, the tow company or storage facility
may obtain a new title under KRS 186A.145 free and clear of any liens,
excluding tax liens.
   (B)   Division (A) of this section shall not apply to the following contents
of a motor vehicle, which shall be released ot the vehicle owner or the owner’s
designated agent upon request, if the request is made within 45 days of the
date the vehicle was towed:
      (1)   Prescription medication in its proper container:
      (2)   Personal medical supplies and equipment or records;
      (3)   Educational materials, including, but not limited to calculators,
books, papers, and school supplies;
      (4)   Documents, files, electronic devices, or equipment which may be
able to store personal information and information relating to a person’s
employment or business;
      (5)   Firearms and ammunition. Notwithstanding the provisions of division
(C) of this section, firearms and ammunition which are not claimed by the owner
of the vehicle within 45 days of the date the vehicle was towed shall be
transferred to the Department of State Police for disposition as provided by
KRS 16.220;
      (6)   Cargo in the possession of persons engaged in transportation in
interstate commerce as registered under KRS 186.020;
      (7)   Cargo in the possession of an integrated intermodal small package
carrier as defined by KRS 281.605(12);
      (8)   Child restraint systems or child booster seats; and
      (9)   Checks, checkbooks, debit or credit cards, money orders, stocks or
bonds.
   (C)   Except as provided in division (A)(5) of this section, any contents
exempted under division (B)(3), (4), (6), and (7) of this section that are not
claimed by the owner of the vehicle within 45 days of the date the vehicle was
towed may be sold or otherwise legally disposed of by the storage or towing
company. Any contents exempted under division (B)(1), (2), (8), and (9) that
are not claimed by the owner of the vehicle within 45 days of the date the
vehicle was towed shall not be sold, but shall be otherwise legally disposed of
by the storage or towing company.
   (D)   The storage or towing company shall not be responsible for contents in
a vehicle’s trunk o other locked compartment to which the storage or towing
company is without access, unless the towing company intentionally open the
area without the owner’s consent.
(KRS 376.275(3) - (6)) (Prior Code, § 72.26)
SNOW EMERGENCY
§ 72.050 ANNOUNCEMENT OF SNOW EMERGENCY.
   (A)   Whenever the Chief of Police or other authorized city official finds
that falling snow, sleet, or freezing rain will create a condition which makes
it necessary that the parking of motor vehicles on snow emergency routes be
prohibited, or whenever he or she finds on the basis of a firm forecast of
snow, sleet, or freezing rain that the weather conditions so forecasted may
create a condition making it necessary that parking be prohibited, he or she is
authorized to announce the prohibition, to become effective at a time specified
by him or her.
   (B)   After the effective time of the prohibition, no person shall park any
vehicle or permit any vehicle to remain parked on a snow emergency route.
However, if a fall of snow, sleet, or freezing rain occurs after 11:00 p.m. and
prior to 6:00 a.m., and the Chief of Police or other authorized city official
has not announced prior to 11:00 p.m. that parking on snow emergency routes is
to be prohibited after a specified time, a vehicle parked on a snow emergency
route may remain so parked until 7:00 a.m. following the fall.
   (C)   The prohibition of parking announced by the Chief of Police or other
authorized city official under the authority of this section shall remain in
effect until he or she announces the termination of the snow emergency, in part
or in which the prohibition of parking authorized by this section shall no
longer be in effect.
(Prior Code, § 72.35) Penalty, see §
72.999
§ 72.051 TERMINATION OF EMERGENCY.
   Whenever the Chief of Police or other authorized city official shall find
that some or all of the conditions which gave rise to the snow emergency
prohibition no longer exist, he or she is authorized to declare the termination
of the emergency, in part or in whole, effective immediately on announcement.
If the announcement is made other than between 6:00 a.m. and 11:00 p.m., it
shall be repeated between those hours.
(Prior Code, § 72.36)
§ 72.052 SNOW EMERGENCY ROUTES.
   The term SNOW EMERGENCY ROUTE shall mean any route designated by the Chief
of Police or other authorized city official. On a street or highway designated
as a snow emergency route, special signs shall be posted to this effect.
(Prior Code, § 72.37)
CARGO VEHICLES
§ 72.065 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CARGO VEHICLES. Any tractor-trailer vehicle or other tank vehicle which is
used for the transportation of gasoline or other flammable or combustible
liquids or other hazardous materials.
   FENCE. Any six- to eight-foot cyclone type fence used to separate the area
where the cargo vehicles are left unattended. Said FENCE must be locked and
otherwise unaccessible to the general public.
   PERSON. Any natural individual, firm, trust, partnership, association, or
corporation.
   UNATTENDED. Parking or otherwise leaving a cargo vehicle in any area for one
hour or more with no one officially on the premises to supervise the cargo
vehicle.
(Ord. 04, 1993 Series, passed 8-18-1993)
§ 72.066 PROHIBITION AGAINST PARKING UNATTENDED CARGO VEHICLES.
   (A)   Cargo vehicles shall not be left unattended on any street, highway,
avenue, alley, or other area within the confines of the city.
   (B)   Unattended cargo vehicles shall not be parked or otherwise left out of
doors except for those areas completely, separated from the general public by a
fence which shall be locked and otherwise unaccessible to the general public.
   (C)   Unattended cargo vehicles shall not be parked or otherwise left
unsupervised in any area within 50 feet from any building used for assembly,
institutional, or multiple residential occupancy.
(Ord. 04, 1993 Series, passed 8-18-1993) Penalty, see §
72.999
§ 72.067 ILLUMINATION OF AREAS DESIGNATED TO PARK CARGO VEHICLES.
   All areas used for housing, storing, or parking unattended vehicles after
dark must be illuminated at all times.
(Ord. 04, 1993 Series, passed 8-18-1993)
§ 72.068 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This subchapter shall be in full force and effect upon its passage and
publishing as required by law.
(Ord. 04, 1993 Series, passed 8-18-1993)
§ 72.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person receiving a citation for any parking violation in the city
shall be deemed to have committed a violation and shall be fined in an amount
not less than $20 nor more than $100 for each offense.
(KRS 189.990(1))
   (C)   The penalty for violating §
72.016 shall be a fine in the sum of $20. Any person failing to pay such fine
within 24 hours shall be subject to a fine of not less than $25 nor more than
$500 upon conviction.
   (D)   Any person, violating §§
72.065 through
72.068, or any provision thereof, shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and
upon conviction shall be fined not more than $100 for each offense.
(Prior Code, § 72.99) (Ord. 10, passed 8-18-1992; Ord. 04, passed 1993 Series,
passed 4-20-1993)
Statutory reference:
   Accident involving death or serious injury; penalty for not reporting, see
KRS 189.990
CHAPTER 73: RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
Section
   
73.01   Operation of bicycles
   
73.02   Operation of motorcycles and motorscooters
   
73.03   Skating and coasting
   
73.04   Clinging to vehicles
 
   
73.99   Penalty
§ 73.01 OPERATION OF BICYCLES.
   (A)   No person shall operate a bicycle on the sidewalks of the city.
   (B)   No person shall operate a bicycle on any section of a public park,
playground, play lot, or tot lot, except on a roadway or in a parking area.
   (C)   No operator of any bicycle shall carry another person on the bicycle.
(Prior Code, § 73.01) Penalty, see §
73.99
Statutory reference:
   Bicycles; safety regulations and standards, see KRS 189.287
§ 73.02 OPERATION OF MOTORCYCLES AND MOTORSCOOTERS.
   (A)   No operator of any motorcycle, motorscooter, or power-driven bicycle
shall carry another person except on a seat attached thereto or in a side car
attached to the vehicle.
   (B)   No operator of a motorcycle, motorscooter, or power-driven bicycle
shall operate the vehicle in any public park, except on a roadway or in a
parking area.
   (C)   No operator of a motorcycle, motorscooter, or power-driven bicycle
shall operate the vehicle in any play lot or tot lot.
(Prior Code, § 73.02) Penalty, see §
73.99
Statutory reference:
   Operating and riding on motorcycles, see KRS 189.285
§ 73.03 SKATING AND COASTING.
   Except on streets which may be declared from time to time as “play streets”
by the city and protected by barriers or official signs, it shall be unlawful
for any person on skates or riding on a coaster sled or toy vehicle of any kind
to go on any roadway except at a crosswalk.
(Prior Code, § 73.03) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.04 CLINGING TO VEHICLES.
   (A)   No person while riding on a bicycle, coaster sled, roller skates, or
any toy vehicle shall cling to any moving vehicle on any street, or fasten or
attach the vehicle on which he or she is riding thereto.
   (B)   No person shall ride on the projection, running board, or fenders of
any vehicle.
(Prior Code, § 73.04) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter shall be deemed to have
committed a violation and shall be fined not more than $50 for each offense.
(Prior Code, § 73.99)
CHAPTER 74: TRUCKS
Section
   
74.01   Maximum weight permitted on highway
   
74.02   Basic height, width, length, and weight limits for trucks,
semitrailers; exception
   
74.03   Evidence of ownership; each violation constitutes separate offense
 
   
74.99   Penalty
§ 74.01 MAXIMUM WEIGHT PERMITTED ON HIGHWAY.
   (A)   No person shall operate on a highway any vehicle, object, or
contrivance, other than a motor truck or semitrailer truck, which weighs more
than 15 tons, including the weight of the vehicle, object, or contrivance and
load, except as provided by division (B) below. This shall not apply to
vehicles run upon tracks or fire apparatus belonging to the Volunteer Fire
Department or used by the Department in the discharge of its functions.
   (B)   The Mayor or City Engineer (if any), upon an application in writing by
the owner or person in charge, may grant permission for the movement of
vehicles, objects, or structures limited by division (A) above, over the
highways within the city. The permission shall be in writing and the Mayor or
the City Engineer (if any) may grant permission subject to such conditions and
restrictions as in his or her judgment are necessary for the preservation and
protection of the highways.
(KRS 189.210) (Prior Code, § 74.01) Penalty, see §
74.99
§ 74.02 BASIC HEIGHT, WIDTH, LENGTH, AND WEIGHT LIMITS FOR TRUCKS,
SEMITRAILERS; EXCEPTION.
   (A)   No person shall operate on any highway except highways maintained by
the state, any of the following trucks, trailers, mobile homes, or vehicles:
      (1)   Any motor truck, semitrailer, trailer, mobile home, or vehicle
which exceeds 11-1/2 feet in height or 96 inches in width, including any part
of the body or load;
      (2)   Any motor truck, except a semitrailer truck, which exceeds 26-1/
2 feet in length, including any part of the body or load;
      (3)   Any semitrailer truck which exceeds 30 feet in length, including ay
part of the body or load;
      (4)   Any truck, semitrailer truck, or truck and trailer unit which
exceeds 36,000 pounds gross weight, including the load; or
      (5)   Any truck, semitrailer truck, or tractor-trailer unit which exceeds
a gross weight equal to the sum of 600 pounds per inch of the combined width of
the tires upon which such vehicle may be propelled, but in no event more than
36,000 pounds.
   (B)   Notwithstanding the provisions of this section, any truck hauling
building materials to a road construction project on a highway rated less than
the maximum weight provided above, may haul up to 80,000 pounds gross weight,
including the load, without a permit. This privilege shall extend only to
travel between the materials manufacturing site and the road construction
project and shall be automatically rescinded upon completion of the project.
(KRS 189.221) (Prior Code, § 74.02) Penalty, see §
74.99
§ 74.03 EVIDENCE OF OWNERSHIP; EACH VIOLATION CONSTITUTES SEPARATE OFFENSE.
   For the purposes of §
74.02 and this section, proof of the registration of any vehicle in the name of
any person shall be prima facie evidence of ownership of that vehicle by the
person in whose name it is registered, and each violation by an owner, whether
or not with the same vehicle, shall constitute a separate offense by that
owner.
(KRS 189.228) (Prior Code, § 74.03)
§ 74.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Whoever violates any provision of §
74.01 shall be subject to a fine of not less than $25 nor more than $100, as
set forth in KRS 189.990(5)(a).
   (B)   Whoever violates the weight regulations set forth in §
74.02 shall be subject to the same fine as set forth in the fine schedule of
KRS 189.990(2)(a). Whoever violates the height, width, or length provisions of
§
74.02 shall be subject to a fine of not less than $10 nor more than $500, as
set forth in KRS 189.990(2)(c).
(Prior Code, § 74.99)
CHAPTER 75: TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
Schedule
      
I.   Speed limits
      
II.   One-way streets
      
III.   Left turns prohibited
      
IV.   Traffic light intersections
      
V.   Weight limits generally
      
VI.   Truck weight limits
SCHEDULE I. SPEED LIMITS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the operator of a motor vehicle to drive such
vehicle over the following streets at a speed greater than that indicated
below.
 
Street                                          Speed Limit Ord. No. Date
28th Street from Walnut Street west to the city 15 mph      10-1950  11-6-1950
limits
39th Street or Ice Damn Road                    10 mph      5-1977   10-17-1977
Lock Avenue from 26th Street to 31st Street     15 mph      15-1986  6-3-1986
Oak Street from 12th Street to 13th Street      10 mph      07A-1993 6-29-1993
Pine Street from 12th Street until dead end     10 mph      07A-1993 6-29-1993
(Forest Heights Housing Development Area)
 
   (B)   Whoever violates the speed limits set forth in this schedule shall be
subject to the same fine as set forth in the fine schedule of KRS 189.394.
(Prior Code, Ch. 75, Sch. I)
SCHEDULE II. ONE-WAY STREETS.
   The following streets are designated as one-way in the directions indicated.
 
Street                                      Direction Ord. No.        Date
Alley between 33rd Street and 34th Street   South     76-1957         9-9-1957
Alley bounded by 35th Street and 36th
Street to the north and south and Railroad  North     09              8-18-1992
Street and Oakland Avenue to the east and
west
Lock Avenue from 26th Street to 31st Street South     -1986           6-3-1986
Lock Avenue from 31st Street to 26th Street South     01A-1996 Series 9-25-1996
 
(Prior Code, Ch. 75, Sch. II) Penalty, see §
70.99
SCHEDULE III. LEFT TURNS PROHIBITED.
   Left turns are prohibited in the following locations.
 
Street        Turning onto           Ord. No. Date
Center Street 26th (Division Street) 9-1954   7-7-1954
Louisa Street 26th (Division Street) 9-1954   7-7-1954
 
(Prior Code, Ch. 75, Sch. III) Penalty, see §
70.99
SCHEDULE IV. TRAFFIC LIGHT INTERSECTIONS.
   Pedestrians and operators of vehicles shall obey the traffic light
indications at the following intersections.
 
Intersection                   Indication    Ord. No. Date
23rd Street and Walnut Street  Traffic light -        10-13-1947
34th Street and Oakland Avenue Traffic light -        10-13-1947
36th Street and Cemetery Road  Traffic light -        10-13-1947
Center Street at 9th Street    Traffic light -        10-13-1947
Center Street at 26th Street   Traffic light -        10-13-1947
Walnut Street at Louisa Street Caution light -        10-13-1947
 
(Prior Code, Ch. 75, Sch. IV) Penalty, see §
70.99
SCHEDULE V. WEIGHT LIMITS GENERALLY.
   (A)   Weight limits on alleys.
      (1)   No person shall operate on any alley in the city any vehicle,
truck, mobile home, or other contrivance which exceeds 8,000 pounds gross
weight, including the load.
      (2)   The Mayor or Chief of Police, upon an application in writing, may
grant special permission of the movement of vehicles or structures in excess of
8,000 pounds.
      (3)   Whoever violates the weight regulation set forth in this division
(A) shall be subject to the same fine as set forth in the fine schedule of KRS
189.990(2)(a).
      (4)   This division (A) shall take effect from and after its passage,
approval, and publication as required by law.
   (B)   Weight limits on Barbecue Road.
      (1)   No person shall operate on Barbecue Road in the city any vehicle,
truck, mobile home, or other contrivance which exceeds 8,000 pounds gross
weight, including the load.
      (2)   The Mayor or City Police Chief, upon an application in writing, may
grant special permission of the movement of vehicles or structures in excess of
8,000 pounds over Barbecue Road.
      (3)    Whoever violates the weight regulation set forth in this division
(B) shall be subject to the same fine as set forth in the fine schedule of KRS
189.990(2)(a).
      (4)   This division (B) shall take effect from and after its passage,
approval, and publication as required by law.
(Ord. 14-2000 Series, passed 11-28-2000; Ord. 16-2000 Series, passed 11-28-
2000)
SCHEDULE VI. TRUCK WEIGHT LIMITS.
   (A)   Trucks with a gross weight exceeding 36,000 pounds are prohibited on
the following streets.
Street Location Ord. No. Date
Street                      Location                       Ord. No. Date
27th Street                 Alley west to Panola Street    15-1976  5-3-1976
28th Street                 From Lock Avenue to Chesnut    15-1976  5-3-1976
                            Street
29th Street                 From Louisa Street to Panola   15-1976  5-3-1976
                            Street
30th Street                 From Lock Avenue to Panola     15-1976  5-3-1976
                            Street
31st Street                 From Lock Avenue to Oakland    15-1976  5-3-1976
                            Avenue
Alley located between the   From north side of 10th Street
Chessie System right-of-way to north to the city           -        6-2-1975
and Greenup Street
Broadway Street             On the bridge located on       94-1958  7-21-1958
                            Broadway Street
Brown Street                Extending from the railroad    -        5-1-1972
                            crossing to Oakland Avenue
Panola Street               Between 26th Street and 30th   15-1976  5-3-1976
                            Street
 
   (B)   Heavy truck traffic in excess of 20,000 pounds except for local
deliveries is prohibited in the following locations:
 
Street      Location                                          Ord. No. Date
36th Street Running east from the intersection of 36th Street 3-1988   3-1988
            with U.S. 23
 
   (C)   Heavy truck traffic shall be prohibited in the following locations:
 
Street                               Location           Ord. No. Date
27th Street                          Between Panola and 19-1987  9-1-1987
                                     Louisa Street
Alley running from 26th Street to                      19-1987  9-1-1987
20th Street
Alley running from 28th Street to                      19-1987  9-1-1987
26th Street
Alley running from Charles Waugh’s                   19-1987  9-1-1987
business
 
   (D)   Whoever violates the weight regulations set forth in this schedule
shall be subject to the same fine as set forth in the fine schedule of KRS
189.990(2)(a).
(Prior Code, Ch. 75, Sch. V)
CHAPTER 76: PARKING SCHEDULES
Section
   
I.   Parking prohibited at all times
   II.   Parking prohibited at certain times
   III.   Parking time limited
   IV.   Truck parking prohibited
   V.   Parking meters
   VI.   Bus stops
SCHEDULE I. PARKING PROHIBITED AT ALL TIMES.
Street Location Ord. No. Date
Street                   Location                  Ord. No. Date
                         In or around the
                         floodwall pumping
23rd Street and Center   stations and from         6-1974   6-21-1974
Street                   encroachment on easements
                         10 feet from the toe of
                         the floodwall
24th Street              From Broadway to the      -        1928
                         river
                         North side, and south
                         side between Broadway and
                         the C&O Railroad property
25th Street              (except vehicles of the   5-1973   6-4-1973
                         United States may be
                         parked and agents of the
                         United States may park in
                         this area)
26th and Louisa Streets  Traffic island at the     1-1980   3-10-1980
                         intersection
                         Either side, between
27th Street              Panola Street and Front            3-3-1947
                         Street
28th Street              North side, between       119-1959 10-5-1959
                         Louisa and the alley
29th Street              Between Panola and Louisa 4-1954   4-5-1954
                         Streets
                         In or around the
31st Street and Oakland  floodwall pumping
Avenue and Peterman      stations and from         6-1974   6-21-1974
Creek                    encroachment on easements
                         10 feet from the toe of
                         the floodwall
                         South side, beginning at
                         the point of intersection
                         of the easterly side of
                         Oakland Avenue with the
33rd Street              southerly side of 33rd    5-1951   5-7-1951
                         Street and extending
                         along the southerly side
                         of 33rd Street in an
                         easterly direction to the
                         Big Sandy River
                         Either side, between
34th Street              Oakland Avenue and Valley 72-1957  7-1957
                         Street
                         Where the street
                         intersects the west side
                         of U.S. 23, then on the
                         north side of 34th Street
                         where it intersects with
                         the west side of U.S. 23
34th Street              in a westerly direction   -        3-3-1975
                         for 40 feet, then on the
                         south side where it
                         intersects with the west
                         side of U.S. 23 in a
                         westerly direction 75
                         feet
                         South side, between
36th Street              Valley Street and Park    108-1959 5-4-1959
                         Street
37th Street              Either side, from the     10-1986  5-12-1986
                         railroad to Park Street
Alley connecting 34th    Either side, for a
Street and 35th Streets  distance of 75 feet from  4-1962   5-21-1962
adjacent to the railroad the intersection of the
                         alley with 34th Street
Alley running north from
10th Street to the       West side                 117-1959 9-14-1959
property of Arnold
Wilson
                         Where it intersects with
Barbecue Road            25th Street and in a      -        6-2-1975
                         northerly direction for a
                         distance of 75 feet
                         West side, between 26th
                         Street and Broadway Ridge
Broadway                 (Parking is allowed on    4-1954   4-5-1954
                         the east side of Broadway
                         at the corner)
Broadway Street          East side, at the corner  20-1986  6-26-1986
                         of 25th Street
Cemetery Road            North side                137-1961 12-4-1961
Center Street            Between 24th and 25th     -        1928
                         Streets
Center Street            East side, between 24th   115-1959 7-6-1959
                         and 23rd Streets
Chaffee Street           North side                95-1958  7-21-1958
Front Street             East side, between 25th   5-1949   3-24-1949
                         Street and 26th Streets
Greenup Street           East side                 95-1958  7-21-1958
                         West side, between the
Greenup Street           points where it           3-1951   2-9-1951
                         intersects with the lines
                         of 9th and 10th Streets
                         Where it intersects with
Honeysuckle Lane         the north side of 10th    1-1978   1-12-1978
                         Street, then north 100
                         feet to an alley
Ice Dam Road or 39th     All points                4-1974   6-21-1974
Street Road
Lark Street              East side                 3-1951   2-9-1951
Louisa Heights           Right-hand side, going    27-1986  1-6-1987
                         north
Louisa Road              Between 36th Street and   84-1958  5-6-1958
                         the city limits
Louisa Street            West side, between 33rd   2-1968   4-22-1968
                         and 34th Streets
                         East side, from Watkins
Mitchell Street          Street to 1139 Mitchell   2-1962   4-2-1962
                         Street, from that point
                         to the city limits
                         Within 300 feet of the
                         point of intersection of
                         the west line of Oakland
                         Avenue with the north
Oakland Avenue           line of 34th Street; and  -        - -
                         within 30 feet of the
                         point of intersection of
                         the west line of Oakland
                         Street with the south
                         line of 34th Street
                         West side, except between
                         28th Street, and 30th
                         Street where parking is
                         permitted, and except
                         that on the day of any
                         funeral scheduled to be
Panola Street            held in any church or     14-1951; 9-10-1951; 3-1-1965
                         funeral home abutting on  1-1965
                         Panola Street parking
                         shall be permitted for 1
                         hour immediately prior to
                         the time set for the
                         funeral and for 2 hours
                         after said time
Park Street              East side                 2-1951   1-3-1951
Springhaven Street       West side                 132-1961 3-8-1961
Sycamore Street          East Side                 4-1987   2-16-1987
                         200 feet on northbound
U.S. 23                  lane of U.S. 23 south     1-1987   1-6-1987
                         from the car wash at 3065
                         Louisa Road
                         East side, except that on
                         any day a funeral is
                         scheduled to be held at
                         any church located and
                         fronting Valley Street,
Valley Street            parking shall be          10-1950  11-6-1950
                         permitted for 1 hour
                         immediately prior to the
                         time set for the funeral
                         and for 2 hours
                         thereafter
Walnut Street            From 28th Street to 31st  97-1958  7-28-1958
                         Street
                         South side, from the
                         intersection of Watkins
Watkins Avenue           Avenue with Center Street -        11-18-1946
                         to the westerly end of
                         Watkins Avenue
 
 
(Prior Code, Ch. 76, Sch. I) Penalty, see §
72.999
SCHEDULE II. PARKING PROHIBITED AT CERTAIN TIMES.
   Parking is prohibited in the following locations as indicated.
Street Location Prohibited Time Ord. No. Date
Street  Location                                                                      Prohibited Ord. Date
                                                                                      Time       No.
                                                                                      Between 8:
                                                                                      00 a.m.
26th    From Louisa Street eastward to the alley and in front                         and 5:00   -    5-6-
Street                                                                                p.m.,           1946
                                                                                      except on
                                                                                      Sundays
                                                                                      Between 8:
                                                                                      00 a.m.
26th    North side, from Center Street westward for a distance of 90                  and 5:00   -    5-6-
Street  feet except for buses; no parking in front of the city building               p.m.,           1946
                                                                                      except on
                                                                                      Sundays
                                                                                      Fridays
34th                                                                                  between 8: 6-   4-4-
Street  Either side, between Court Street and Adams Avenue                            00 a.m.    1949 1949
                                                                                      and 8:00
                                                                                      p.m.
                                                                                      Fridays
34th                                                                                  between 8: 6-   4-4-
Street  North side, between Louisa Street and Court Street                            00 a.m.    1949 1949
                                                                                      and 8:00
                                                                                      p.m.
                                                                                      Fridays
34th                                                                                  from 8:00       5-6-
Street  North side, from Oakland Avenue to Court Street                               a.m. to    -    1946
                                                                                      12:00
                                                                                      midnight
                                                                                      Between 8:
                                                                                      00 a.m.
Center  West side, within 30 feet of the corner at the intersection of 26th Street    and 5:00   -    5-6-
Street                                                                                p.m.,           1946
                                                                                      except on
                                                                                      Sundays
Center                                                                                Between 8:
Street                                                                                00 a.m.
from                                                                                  and 5:00        5-6-
25th    East side, from the northern city limits to 19th Street                       p.m.,      -    1946
Street                                                                                except on
to 26th                                                                               Sundays
Street
                                                                                      Fridays,
Court                                                                                 between 6: 6-   8-
Street  West side, between 33rd and 36th Streets                                      00 a.m.    1952 11-
                                                                                      and 6:00        1952
                                                                                      p.m.
                                                                                      Between 8:
                                                                                      00 a.m.
Court   West side, from 36th Street to the southerly city limits                      and 5:00   -    5-6-
Street                                                                                p.m.,           1946
                                                                                      except on
                                                                                      Sundays
                                                                                      Between 8:
                                                                                      00 a.m.
                                                                                      and 5:00
                                                                                      a.m. and
                                                                                      5:00 p.m.,
                                                                                      except on
                                                                                      Sundays
Lock    East side                                                                     parking    -    5-6-
Avenue                                                                                will be         1946
                                                                                      permitted
                                                                                      on the
                                                                                      west side
                                                                                      for cars
                                                                                      traveling
                                                                                      in either
                                                                                      direction
                                                                                      Fridays,
Louisa  Both sides, for a distance of 700 feet, beginning at a point where Louisa     between 8: 7-   7-3-
Street  intersections with 34th Street and continuing north 700 feet                  00 a.m.    1950 1950
                                                                                      and 8:00
                                                                                      p.m.
                                                                                      Between 8:
                                                                                      00 a.m.
Louisa  East side, from the underpass at Vaughn’s Corner to 34th Street; parking wiland 5:00        5-6-
Street  be allowed from either direction on the west side of Louisa Street from       a.m. and   -    1946
        Vaughn’s Corner underpass to 34th Street                                    5:00 p.m.,
                                                                                      except on
                                                                                      Sundays
                                                                                      Between 8:
        East side, from the residence at 3125 Oakland Avenue to Brown Street; parking 00 a.m.
Oakland will be allowed on the west side of Oakland                                   and 5:00   -    5-6-
Avenue  Avenue for cars traveling in either direction from Vaughn’s Corner to Brown p.m.,           1946
        Street                                                                        except
                                                                                      Sundays
                                                                                      Fridays
Oakland                                                                               between 8: 6-   4-4-
Avenue  Either side, between 33rd and 34th Streets                                    00 a.m.    1949 1949
                                                                                      and 8:00
                                                                                      p.m.
                                                                                      Between 8:
                                                                                      00 a.m.
Oakland On the southerly side of 33rd Street at Oakland Avenue for a distance of 65   and 5:00   -    5-6-
Avenue  feet, buses only are permitted to park                                        p.m.,           1946
                                                                                      except
                                                                                      Sundays
                                                                                      Fridays
Spring                                                                                between 8: 6-   4-4-
Street  Either side                                                                   00 a.m.    1949 1949
                                                                                      and 8:00
                                                                                      p.m.
 
(Prior Code, Ch. 76, Sch. II) Penalty, see §
72.999
SCHEDULE III. PARKING TIME LIMITED.
   It shall be unlawful to park any vehicle on any of the streets listed below
for a longer period than indicated.
 
Street                         Time Limit                     Ord. No. Date
                               1 hour, from 8:00 a.m. to 5:00
                               p.m. except on Sundays, and
                               except as otherwise provided
26th Street from Broadway to   in these schedules; parking on -        5-6-1946
Front Street                   the south side of 26th Street
                               from Center Street to Front
                               Street shall be a 45-degree
                               angle
26th Street in front of        15 minutes                     -        5-6-1946
Kentucky Farmers Bank
Center Street from 25th Street 1 hour between 8:00 a.m. and   -        5-6-1946
to 26th Street                 5:00 p.m. except on Sundays
Louisa Street between Short
Street and the intersection of
Louisa and Division Streets,
or proceeding westerly
on the right-hand side of      15 minutes                     -        7-6-1936
Division Street from the alley
adjacent to the Elks Building
to the intersection of
Division Street with
Broadway
                               1 hour, from 8:00 a.m. to 5:00
                               p.m., except Sundays; bus
                               parking shall be permitted on
Louisa Street, both sides from the west side beginning at
26th Street to 28th Street and 28th Street and extending      -        5-6-1946
on the west side from 28th     northerly for 65 feet; bus
Street to 29th Street          parking shall be permitted on
                               the east side beginning at
                               26th Street and extending
                               southerly 80 feet
 
(Prior Code, Ch. 76, Sch. III) Penalty, see §
72.999
SCHEDULE IV. TRUCK PARKING PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to park any truck larger than one-half
ton on any of the following streets, except in case of emergency or for loading
or unloading.
 
Street          Ord. No. Date
Broadway Street 100-1958 10-6-1958
 
(Prior Code, Ch. 76, Sch. IV) Penalty, see §
72.999
SCHEDULE V. PARKING METERS.
   (A)   The following are designated parking meter zones.
Zone Location Ord. No. Date
Zone Location                       Ord. No.              Date
     Area beginning at 24th Street
     and running south on Center
     Street through Louisa Street
1    and 30th Street excepting that 9-1964; 2-2010 Series 8-20-1964; 12-15-2009
     there shall be no parking on
     the east side of Louisa Street
     from 28th Street to 30th
     Street
2    29th Street from Louisa Street 9-1964                8-20-1964
     to Panola Street
     Between Front Street and the
3    railroad to both sides of the  9-1964                8-20-1964
     street between Louisa Street
     and the railroad
4    27th Street lying between the  9-1964                8-20-1964
     river and Panola Street
5    26th Street running from the   9-1964                8-20-1964
     river and Panola Street
6    25th Street between the river  9-1964                8-20-1964
     and the railroad
     Broadway from 25th Street to
7    26th Street and Panola Street  9-1964                8-20-1964
     from 26th Street through 28th
     Street
8    28th Street running from the   16-1988               8-16-1988
     river to the railroad
 
   (B)   Parking meters shall be located on the following streets.
Street Location Ord. No. Date
Street        Location               Ord. No.          Date
25th Street   Both sides from the    16-1988           8-16-1988
              river to the railroad
26th Street   Both sides from the    16-1988           8-16-1988
              river to the railroad
27th Street   Both sides from the    16-1988           8-16-1988
              river to Panola Street
              Both sides from the
              river to the railroad
              excepting 3 parking
              spaces between Panola
              Street and the CXS     16-1988; 2, 2010
28th Street   right-of-way on the    Series            8-16-1988; 12-15-2009
              north side and
              excepting 2 existing
              parking spaces on the
              south side of 28th
              Street
Center Street Both sides from 24th   16-1988           8-16-1988
              to 26th Street
Louisa Street Both sides from 26th   16-1988           8-16-1988
              to 28th Street
              East side from 26th to
              28th Street except
              that there shall be no
Panola Street parking meters on the  16-1988;          8-16-1988; 7-19-2011
              3 parking spaces       09 of 2011 Series
              closest to 26th Street
              on the east side of
              Panola Street
 
   (C)   (1)   There shall be one disabled parking meter per block.
      (2)   This division (C)(2) establishes disabled parking in place of two
discontinued parking meters on the south side of 28th Street, between Louisa
and Panola Streets.
   (D)   The first parking space located past the Courthouse Annex parking lot
on the west side of Louisa Street, which is underneath the Pedway, is hereby
designated as “No Parking” and the parking meter there shall be removed.
   (E)   One parking space in front of each residence on the east side of
Panola Street is hereby designated as “Residential Parking” for the resident of
that house and the parking meter there shall be removed. Said resident must
visibly display a city-issued parking pass in their vehicle at all times while
parked in “Residential Parking” in order to avoid penalty. Said resident must
apply for and obtain the residential parking pass from either the City Clerk or
the Chief of Police during regular business hours.
   (F)   Notwithstanding any other provision of this Schedule, it shall be
lawful for vehicles to be parked on the sidewalks on Tenth Street.
   (G)   Notwithstanding any other provision of this Schedule, the three
parking spaces located directly in front of the premises located at 2409 Center
Street shall be free parking spaces without parking meters.
   (H)   The parking lot located at or near the corner of Pine and Oak Streets
as part of the Forest Heights Housing Project shall be designated as
“Residential Parking” only for the residents of said Forest Heights Apartments.
Each resident of Forest Heights shall be issued one parking pass per resident
vehicle up to a maximum of two parking passes per apartment for parking in said
designated lot. All residents must visibly display a city-issued parking pass
in their vehicle at all times when parked in “Residential Parking” in order to
avoid penalty. Residents may apply for and obtain the residential parking pass
from the Executive Director of the Catlettsburg Housing Authority during
regular business hours. Any vehicle parked in the residential parking area
herein designated not displaying a city issued residential parking pass shall
be subject to penalty as provided for in § 72.99(B) of the Catlettsburg Code of
Ordinances.
(Prior Code, Ch. 76, Sch. V) (Ord. 16-1988, passed 8-16-1988; Ord. 6-1991,
passed 10-16-1990; Ord. 09 of 2011 Series, passed 7-19-2011; Ord. 10 of 2012
Series, passed 11-27-2012; Ord. 11 of 2012 Series, passed 12-18-2012; Ord. 08
of 2013 Series, passed 11-19-2013; Ord. 08, 2015 Series, passed 6-16-2015)
Penalty, see §
72.999
SCHEDULE VI. BUS STOPS.
   (A)   Parking in bus stops prohibited.
      (1)   All buses and modes of transportation for hire going through the
city shall stop for the purpose of boarding and discharging passengers on
Division Street and Plum Street as follows:
         (a)   In a southerly direction at a point not less than ten feet west
from the fire plug in front of Brogan’s Drug Store and not less than 20 feet
from the corner of the alley between the Elks Building and the Kentucky Farmers
Bank; and where Plum Street intersections with Oakland Avenue on the right side
of Plum Street next to and adjacent to Aker’s Store; and
         (b)   In a northerly direction within 30 feet from the alley between
the Tipton and Justice Buildings in Division Street; and within a point east of
Walker’s Liquor Store and the corner of the alley intersection with Plum
Street.
      (2)   All of the stops shall be marked and designated as set out herein
by the Street Commissioner of the city.
      (3)   It shall be unlawful to park any automobile or vehicle within the
stops for buses as set out in division (A)(1) above.
   (B)   Bus route and stops established.
      (1)   Blue Ribbon buses shall travel south on Oakland Avenue, from 34th
Street to 37th Street, east on 36th Street to Valley Street, north on Valley
Street to 35th Street, west on 35th Street to Oakland Avenue, north on Oakland
Avenue to any point north.
      (2)   Bus stops are established as follows:
Bus Stops
Bus Stops
50 feet from the southwest intersection of 26th Street and Louisa Street
100 feet from 21st Street
Northeast corner of 25th Street and Center Street
Northeast corner of 33rd Street and Oakland Avenue
Northeast corner of 35th Street and Oakland Avenue
Northwest corner of 35th Street and Oakland Avenue
Northwest corner of 36th Street and Oakland Avenue
Site of Hite’s Restaurant and Oakland Avenue
Site of Keffer’s Appliance Store
Southeast corner of 36th Street and Race Street
Southeast corner of Valley Street and 35th Street
Southwest corner of 25th Street and Center Street
Southwest corner of 36th Street and Valley Street
Southwest corner of Alley and Center Street
 
(Prior Code, Ch. 76, Sch. VI) (Ord. passed 7-6-1936; Ord. 10-1954, passed 7-7-
1954) Penalty, see §
70.99
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   ANIMALS
      
91.   STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
      
92.   NUISANCES
      
93.   FIREWORKS AND FIRE PREVENTION
      
94.   LITTERING
      
95.   FUND RAISING EVENTS
      
96.   FAIR HOUSING
CHAPTER 90: ANIMALS
Section
General Provisions
   
90.01   Definitions
   
90.02   Animals running at large
   
90.03   Cruelty to animals in the second degree
   
90.04   Dyeing or selling dyed chicks or rabbits
   
90.05   Abandoning domestic animals prohibited
   
90.06   Destruction of abandoned and suffering animal
   
90.07   Bird sanctuary
   
90.08   Feeding raccoons
Dogs
   
90.20   Definition
   
90.21   License required
   
90.22   Registration and issuance of license
   
90.23   License tag to be attached to dog
   
90.24   Dogs running at large; leash required
   
90.25   Noise disturbance
 
   
90.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 90.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABANDON. To forsake entirely, or to neglect or refuse to provide or perform
the legal obligations for care and support of an animal by its owner or his or
her agent.
(KRS 257.010)
   AT LARGE. Off the premises of the owner, and not under the control of the
owner or his or her agent either by leash, cord, chain, or otherwise.
   OWNER. Every person having a right of property to an animal and every person
who keeps or harbors an animal, has it in his or her care, or permits it to
remain on or about the premises owned or occupied by him or her.
(Prior Code, § 90.01)
§ 90.02 ANIMALS RUNNING AT LARGE.
   (A)   No person who is the owner of any animal shall permit it to run at
large in any public road, highway, street, lane, or alley, or upon unenclosed
land, or permit it to go on any private yard, lot, or enclosure without the
consent of the owner of the yard, lot, or enclosure.
   (B)   The owner of an animal who permits it to run at large in violation of
this section is liable for all damages caused by the animal upon the premises
of another.
(Prior Code, § 90.02) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.03 CRUELTY TO ANIMALS IN THE SECOND DEGREE.
   (A)   A person is guilty of cruelty to animals in the second degree when,
except as authorized by law, he or she intentionally or wantonly:
      (1)   Subjects any animal to or causes cruel or injurious mistreatment
through abandonment, participates other than as provided in KRS 525.125 in
causing it to fight for pleasure or profit (including but not limited to being
a spectator or vendor at an event where a four-legged animal is caused to fight
for pleasure or profit), mutilation, beating, torturing any animal other than a
dog or cat, tormenting, failing to provide adequate food, drink, space, or
health care, or by any other means;
      (2)   Subjects any animal in his or her custody to cruel neglect; or
      (3)   Kills any animal other than a domestic animal killed by poisoning.
This division (A)(3) shall not apply to intentional poisoning of a dog or cat.
Intentional poisoning of a dog or cat shall constitute a violation of this
section.
   (B)   Nothing in this section shall apply to the killing of animals:
      (1)   Pursuant to a license to hunt, fish, or trap;
      (2)   Incident to the processing as food or for other commercial
purposes;
      (3)   For humane purposes;
      (4)   For veterinary, agricultural, spaying or neutering, or cosmetic
purposes;
      (5)   For purposes relating to sporting activities, including but not
limited to horse racing at organized races and training for organized races,
organized horse shows, or other animal shows;
      (6)   For bona fide animal research activities of institutions of higher
education; or a business entity registered with the United States Department of
Agriculture under the Animal Welfare Act, being 7 U.S.C. §§ 2131 et seq., or
subject to other federal laws governing animal research;
      (7)   In defense of self or another person against an aggressive or
diseased animal;
      (8)   In defense of a domestic animal against an aggressive or diseased
animal;
      (9)   For animal or pest control; or
      (10)   For any other purpose authorized by law.
(KRS 525.130) (Prior Code, § 90.03) Penalty, see §
90.99
Statutory reference:
   Cruelty to animals in the first degree, a Class D felony, see KRS 525.125
§ 90.04 DYEING OR SELLING DYED CHICKS OR RABBITS.
   No person shall sell, exchange, offer to sell or exchange, display, or
possess living baby chicks, ducklings, or other fowl or rabbits which have been
dyed or colored; nor dye or color any baby chicks, ducklings or other fowl or
rabbits; nor sell, exchange, offer to sell or exchange or to give away baby
chicks, ducklings, or other fowl or rabbits under two months of age in any
quantity less than six, except that any rabbit weighing three pounds or more
may be sold at an age of six weeks.
(KRS 436.600) (Prior Code, § 90.04) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.05 ABANDONING DOMESTIC ANIMALS PROHIBITED.
   No owner of a domestic animal shall abandon the animal.
(Prior Code, § 90.05) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.06 DESTRUCTION OF ABANDONED AND SUFFERING ANIMAL.
   (A)   Any peace officer, animal control officer, or any person authorized by
the Council may destroy or kill, or cause to be destroyed or killed, any animal
found abandoned and suffering and not properly cared for, or appearing to be
injured, diseased, or suffering past recovery for any useful purpose.
(KRS 257.100(1))
   (B)   Before destroying the animal, the officer shall obtain the judgment to
that effect of a veterinarian or of two reputable citizens called by him or her
to view the animal in his or her presence, or shall obtain consent to the
destruction from the owner of the animal.
(KRS 257.100(2))
   (C)   (1)   Any animal placed in the custody of a licensed veterinarian for
treatment, boarding, or other care, which shall be unclaimed by its owner or
his or her agent for a period of more than ten days after written notice by
registered or certified mail, return receipt requested, is given the owner or
his or her agent at his or her last known address, shall be deemed to be
abandoned and may be turned over to the nearest Humane Society or animal
shelter or disposed of as the custodian may deem proper.
      (2)   The giving of notice to the owner, or the agent of the owner, of
the animal by the licensed veterinarian shall relieve the licensed veterinarian
and any custodian to whom the animal may be given of any further liability for
disposal.
(KRS 257.100((3))
   (D)   Abandonment shall constitute the relinquishment of all rights and
claims by the owner to the animal.
(KRS 257.100(4))
(Prior Code, § 90.06)
§ 90.07 BIRD SANCTUARY.
   (A)   The entire area embraced within the corporate limits of the city is
hereby designated as a bird sanctuary.
   (B)   (1)   It shall be unlawful to trap, hunt, shoot, or attempt to shoot
or molest in any manner any bird or wild fowl or to rob bird nests or wild fowl
nests.
      (2)   If starlings or similar birds are found to be congregating in such
numbers in a particular locality that they constitute a nuisance or menace to
health or property in the opinion of the proper health authorities of the city,
then in such event the health authorities shall meet with representatives of
the Audubon Society, Bird Club, Garden Club, or Humane Society, or as many of
the clubs as are found to exist.
      (3)   Three days’ actual notice of the time and place of the meeting
shall be given to the representatives of the clubs.
   (C)   If as a result of the meeting no satisfactory alternative is found to
abate such nuisance, then the birds may be destroyed in such numbers and in
such manner as is deemed advisable by the health authorities under the
supervision of the Chief of Police.
   (D)   Nothing in this section shall in any way interfere with the right of a
property owner to remove any bird from his or her property which constitutes a
nuisance.
(Prior Code, § 90.07) (Ord. passed 5-11-1966) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.08 FEEDING RACCOONS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to feed a raccoon within the city limits
as such animals constitute a serious danger to the safety and welfare of
citizens of the community. State or county humane or wild life officials are
exempted.
(Ord. 10, 2023, passed 9-28-2023) Penalty, see §
90.99
DOGS
§ 90.20 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DOG. Any member of the canine family, six months of age or over, male or
female.
(Prior Code, § 90.15)
§ 90.21 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to own or keep a dog or dogs in the city
without first obtaining a license for each dog. This section and §
90.22 shall not apply to dogs whose owners are nonresidents temporarily within
the city for a period less than 30 days.
(Prior Code, § 90.16) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.22 REGISTRATION AND ISSUANCE OF LICENSE.
   (A)   All dogs kept in the city shall be registered as to sex, breed, name
and address of the owner, and name of the dog. At the time of the registration,
the owner shall obtain a license tag for the dog and shall pay a fee as
established by City Council for each dog.
   (B)   The license tag shall be valid for one year from the date of issue. A
new tag shall be obtained each year by every owner and a new fee paid.
(Prior Code, § 90.17) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.23 LICENSE TAG TO BE ATTACHED TO DOG.
   The license tag shall be fastened to the collar of the dog and shall be worn
continuously, and the failure to have the tag so attached shall subject the
owner or keeper thereof to the penalties provided herein.
(Prior Code, § 90.18) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.24 DOGS RUNNING AT LARGE; LEASH REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for the owner or keeper of any dog, either licensed or
unlicensed, regardless of the age of the dog, to allow the dog to be at large
and not restrained by a leash or to run in any street, park, lawn, garden,
schoolyard, playground, or on any other public or private property while not
restrained on a leash.
(Prior Code, § 90.19) (Ord. 07-1996 Series, passed 11-19-1996) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.25 NOISE DISTURBANCE.
   No person shall keep or harbor any dog within the city which, by frequent
and habitual barking, howling, or yelping, creates unreasonably loud and
disturbing noises of a character, intensity, and duration as to disturb the
peace, quiet, and good order of one or more of the inhabitants of two or more
separate residences. Any person who shall allow any dog habitually to remain,
be lodged, or fed within any dwelling, yard, or enclosure which he or she
occupies or owns shall be considered as harboring the dog.
(Prior Code, § 90.20) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter for which
another penalty is not already otherwise provided shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and shall be fined not more than $500 for each offense. Each day
the violation exists shall constitute a separate offense.
   (B)   Any person who violates §
90.03 shall be guilty of a Class A misdemeanor and shall be fined not more than
$500, imprisoned for not more than 12 months, or both for each offense.
(KRS 525.130)
   (C)   Any person who violates §
90.04 shall be guilty of a Class A misdemeanor for the first offense if the dog
or cat suffers physical injury as a result of the torture.
   (D)   Any person who violates §
90.05 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be fined not less than $100
nor more than $500.
(KRS 436.600)
   (E)   Whoever violates §
90.08 shall pursuant to the provisions of KRS 534.040(2)(c) be fined not more
than $250 for each offense. Each incident of feeding shall be considered a
separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 90.99) (Ord. 10, 2023, passed 9-28-2023)
Statutory reference:
   Torture of dogs or cats, see KRS 525.135
CHAPTER 91: STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
Section
Excavations and Construction
   
91.01   Opening permit required; fee
   
91.02   Application and cash deposit
   
91.03   Restoration of pavement
   
91.04   Barriers around excavations
   
91.05   Warning lights
   
91.06   Sidewalk construction; construction of private roads
   
91.07   Sidewalk replacement program
Road and Bridge Projects
   
91.20   Public hearing required
   
91.21   Notice requirements; public may testify
   
91.22   Effect of testimony
   
91.23   Hearing to be held prior to construction
   
91.24   Separate hearing for each project not required
   
91.25   Exemptions from hearing requirement
Obstructions
   
91.40   Unloading on street or sidewalk
   
91.41   Street and sidewalk obstruction
   
91.42   Materials on street or sidewalk
   
91.43   Removal of ice and snow
   
91.44   Display of merchandise on sidewalk
   
91.45   Prohibiting solicitation within a roadway, median, or from the side of
a roadway
 
   
91.99   Penalty
EXCAVATIONS AND CONSTRUCTION
§ 91.01 OPENING PERMIT REQUIRED; FEE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, corporation, or other legal
entity to break any sidewalk, street or curb within the city, without first
procuring from the City Clerk, a permit authorizing him or her to do so.
   (B)   A permit shall be issued by the Clerk upon receipt of an application
stating the location of the proposed break of the curb, sidewalk, or street;
the name and address of the person or other legal entity responsible for such
break; the purpose for such break; and the estimated period of time within
which said break shall be completed and repaired.
   (C)   All breaks in curbs, sidewalks, and streets for which a permit is
required are to be repaired or replaced as follows.
      (1)   All breaks shall be replaced within ten days of completion of the
work associated with the break.
      (2)   Any curbs broken shall be replaced for a distance of 15 feet from
the break.
      (3)   Sidewalks shall be repaired by replacing the entire section of
sidewalk in which any part was removed or broken.
      (4)   Cuts in streets shall be repaired by using the same material as
that of which the street is now constructed.
      (5)   The base of all repairs shall be tapped or prepared in some
suitable manner.
   (D)   Upon completion of the repair or replacement of any curb, sidewalk, or
street cut pursuant to a permit issued under this section, the holder of the
permit shall notify the City Clerk of the completion of such work and the same
shall be subject to inspection and approval by the City Street Department.
   (E)   If the City Street Department notifies the permit holder within 30
days of completion of repair work that the repairs have not been properly
completed in accordance with this section, it shall be the duty of the permit
holder to properly complete all repairs within five days of such notice.
(Prior Code, § 91.01) (Ord. 4 2010 Series, passed 3-16-2010) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.02 APPLICATION AND CASH DEPOSIT.
   Each permit for making an opening shall be confined to a single project and
shall be issued by the authorized city official. Application shall be made on a
form prescribed by the City Council, giving the exact location of the proposed
opening, the kind of paving, the area and depth to be excavated, and other
facts as may be provided for. The permit shall be issued only after a cash
deposit sufficient to cover the cost of restoration has been posted with the
authorized city official, conditioned upon prompt and satisfactory refilling of
excavations and restoration of all surfaces disturbed.
(Prior Code, § 91.02)
§ 91.03 RESTORATION OF PAVEMENT.
   (A)   All breaks are to be repaired or replaced in accordance with the
following specifications.
      (1)   Curbs are to be replaced for a distance of 15 feet.
      (2)   Sidewalks are to be replaced by replacing the section in which any
part was removed.
      (3)   Streets shall be replaced by replacing with the same material of
which the street is now constructed.
      (4)   The base should be tapped or prepared in some suitable manner.
   (B)   All breaks shall be replaced within ten days after the work is
completed.
(Prior Code, § 91.03) (Ord. 123-1960, passed 6-6-1960) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.04 BARRIERS AROUND EXCAVATIONS.
   Any person engaged in or employing others in excavating or opening any
street, sidewalk, alley, or other public way shall have the excavation or
opening fully barricaded at all times to prevent injury to persons or animals.
(Prior Code, § 91.04) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.05 WARNING LIGHTS.
   Any person engaged in or employing others in excavating or otherwise in any
manner obstructing a portion or all of any street, sidewalk, alley, or other
public way, at all times during the night season shall install and maintain at
least two illuminated red lamps which shall be securely and conspicuously
posted on, at, or near each end of the obstruction or excavation, and if the
space involved exceeds 50
feet in extent, at least one additional lamp for each added 50 feet or portion
thereof excavated or obstructed.
(Prior Code, § 91.05) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.06 SIDEWALK CONSTRUCTION; CONSTRUCTION OF PRIVATE ROADS.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the Street Foreperson, or other authorized
person to supervise construction or repair of sidewalks within the city. He or
she shall cause specifications to be prepared for the construction of the
various kinds of pavements and transmit the specifications to the legislative
body for approval. When the specifications are approved, the legislative body
shall advertise for proposals to do all the work which may be ordered by the
city in construction and repair of sidewalks, and shall authorize the Mayor or
his or her designated agent to contract therefor, for a period not exceeding
one year, with the lowest responsible bidder, who shall furnish good and
sufficient sureties for the faithful performance of the work. The legislative
body, if it deems advisable, may authorize the Mayor or his or her designated
agent to make separate contracts for the different kinds of work with different
parties.
   (B)   Anyone cutting a private road from a city street to private property
is required to come before Council and state all plans for maintaining the
road.
(Prior Code, § 91.06) (Ord. 6-1986, passed 2-24-1986)
§ 91.07 SIDEWALK REPLACEMENT PROGRAM.
   (A)   The city is authorized to enter into a 50/50 sidewalk replacement
program with property owners.
   (B)   The city is authorized to construct sidewalks under a 50/50 sidewalk
replacement program wherein the property owners of the city agree to pay one-
half of the construction costs necessary to replace the sidewalks abutting
their property and the city shall pay the other half of the construction costs.
   (C)   The Mayor is duly authorized to sign an agreement with the property
owners entering into the 50/50 sidewalk replacement program.
(Prior Code, § 91.07) (Ord. 21-1986, passed 6-26-1986)
ROAD AND BRIDGE PROJECTS
§ 91.20 PUBLIC HEARING REQUIRED.
   Before the city expends state-derived tax revenues on a municipal highway,
road, street, or bridge, it shall provide an opportunity to the public to
provide input in a public meeting for which notice has been given under KRS
61.823(2) to (4) with regard to the project and to priorities for use of tax
monies for road and bridge purposes.
(KRS 174.100) (Prior Code, § 91.15)
§ 91.21 NOTICE REQUIREMENTS; PUBLIC MAY TESTIFY.
   Prior to the contemplated date of expenditure of state-derived tax revenues
on a road or bridge by the city, the city shall include the topic as a specific
item on the public meeting agenda and shall allow any person to speak with
regard to any proposed project, any project which he or she feels should be
built or done which has not been proposed, priorities for completion of
projects, and any other matter related to road or bridge projects.
(KRS 174.100(1)) (Prior Code, § 91.16)
§ 91.22 EFFECT OF TESTIMONY.
   The city shall not be bound by the comments and input provided at the
meeting testimony heard at the hearing but shall give due consideration to
them.
(KRS 174.100(2))
(Prior Code, § 91.17)
§ 91.23 HEARING TO BE HELD PRIOR TO CONSTRUCTION.
   The city shall not begin construction on a road or bridge project wherein
state-derived tax revenues are involved until the meeting as provided herein
has been held.
(KRS 174.100(3)) (Prior Code, § 91.18)
§ 91.24 SEPARATE HEARING FOR EACH PROJECT NOT REQUIRED.
   This subchapter shall not be construed to require a separate meeting for
each project. A single meeting encompassing the entire road and bridge program,
provided all projects subsequently undertaken have been identified at the
meeting, shall meet the requirements of this subchapter.
(KRS 174.100(4)) (Prior Code, § 91.19)
§ 91.25 EXEMPTIONS FROM HEARING REQUIREMENT.
   The provisions of this subchapter shall not apply to emergency repair or
replacement of roads or bridges necessitated by natural or human-caused
disasters, nor to street cleaning or snow removal operations.
(KRS 174.100(5))
(Prior Code, § 91.20)
OBSTRUCTIONS
§ 91.40 UNLOADING ON STREET OR SIDEWALK.
   No person shall unload any heavy material in the streets of the city by
throwing or letting the material fall upon the pavement of any street, alley,
sidewalk, or other public way, without first placing some sufficient protection
over the pavement.
(Prior Code, § 91.30) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.41 STREET AND SIDEWALK OBSTRUCTION.
   No person shall obstruct any street, alley, sidewalk, or other public way
within the city by erecting thereon any fence or building, or permitting any
fence or building to remain thereon. Each day that any fence or building is
permitted to remain upon the public way shall constitute a separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 91.31) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.42 MATERIALS ON STREET OR SIDEWALK.
   No person shall encumber any street or sidewalk. No owner, occupant, or
person having the care of any building or lot of land, bordering on any street
or sidewalk, shall permit it to be encumbered with barrels, boxes, cans,
articles, or substances of any kind, so as to interfere with the free and
unobstructed use thereof.
(Prior Code, § 91.32) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.43 REMOVAL OF ICE AND SNOW.
   It shall be the duty of the owner or of the occupant of each and every
parcel of real estate in the city abutting upon any sidewalk to keep the
sidewalk abutting his or her premises free and clear of snow and ice to the
extent feasible under the prevailing weather conditions, and to remove
therefrom all snow and ice, to the extent feasible under the prevailing weather
conditions, accumulated thereon within a reasonable time which will ordinarily
not exceed 12 hours after the abatement of any storm during which the snow and
ice may have accumulated.
(Prior Code, § 91.33) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.44 DISPLAY OF MERCHANDISE ON SIDEWALK.
   (A)   It shall be lawful for any person, firm, or corporation to display,
store, or exhibit goods, wares, or merchandise upon the sidewalks of the city.
   (B)   A permit fee of $5 per day shall be imposed upon any person, firm, or
corporation desiring to display, store, or exhibit goods, wares, or merchandise
upon the sidewalks of the city.
   (C)   The city reserves the right to reject application for permit should
sales interfere with any activities sponsored by the city.
   (D)   Sales can only be conducted in front of a business obtaining permit.
   (E)   Fifty percent of sidewalk must be clear for pedestrian traffic.
   (F)   Sidewalk to be utilized for sales must be six feet minimum in width.
   (G)   This section shall take effect from and after its passage, approval,
and publication as required by law.
(Prior Code, § 91.34) (Ord. 16-1951, passed 10-8-1951; Ord. 10-2001 Series,
passed 8-28-2001) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.45 PROHIBITING SOLICITATION WITHIN A ROADWAY, MEDIAN, OR FROM THE SIDE OF
A ROADWAY.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of this section is to prevent dangers to persons
and property, to prevent delays, and to avoid interference with the traffic
flow.
   (B)   Definition. For the purpose of this section, the following definition
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      CENTER MEDIAN. Any area in the middle of any street or highway, designed
to provide a barrier to keep traffic on one side of the street from going to
the other side of the street. A CENTER MEDIAN may be a raised concrete strip or
a grass strip.
   (C)   Solicitation from median strip prohibited. No person shall stand or
stay on any center median for the purpose of soliciting contributions of any
kind for any organization. No person shall stand or stay on any center median
strip for the purpose of selling, offering for sale, or advertising any
product, property, or service.
   (D)   Use of center median. Center medians shall be used by any person on
foot for only one of the following purposes.
      (1)   To deal with an emergency, a person may be on the center median
temporarily.
      (2)   A pedestrian crossing a street or highway may remain on the center
median until it is safe to proceed.
   (E)   Solicitation within road or from side of road. No person shall stand
in or in any way occupy any street, road, or public way or any right-of-way at
the side of any street or highway for the purpose of soliciting contributions
of any kind, or for the purpose of selling, offering for sale, or advertising
any product, property, or service.
(Ord. 01-1995 Series, passed 3-21-1995) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter for which no specific
penalty is prescribed shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall, upon
conviction, be fined not more than $500.
(Prior Code, § 91.99)
   (B)   Any person, corporation, or legal entity violating any provision of §
91.01 shall, upon conviction, be fined not less than $10 nor more than $25, and
every day that said violation shall continue may constitute a separate offense.
   (C)   Any person, firm, or corporation violating any provision of §
91.45 shall be fined not less than $5 nor more than $100 for each offense. A
separate offense shall be deemed committed each day during which a violation
occurs or continues.
(01-1995 Series, passed 3-21-1995; Ord. 4 2010 Series, passed 3-16-2010)
CHAPTER 92: NUISANCES
Section
   
92.01   Definitions
   
92.02   Common law and statutory nuisances
   
92.03   Certain conditions declared a nuisance
   
92.04   Abatement procedure
   
92.05   Nuisance created by others
   
92.06   Suspension of license
   
92.07   Weeds
 
   
92.99   Penalty
§ 92.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AUTOMOBILE PARTS. Any portion or parts of any motor driven vehicle as
detached from the vehicle as a whole.
   DWELLING. Any part of any building or its premises used as a place of
residence or habitation or for sleeping by any person.
   INOPERATIVE CONDITION. Unable to move under its own power due to defective
or missing parts, and which has remained in such condition for a period of not
less than ten consecutive days.
   MOTOR VEHICLE. Any style or type of motor driven vehicle used for the
conveyance of persons or property.
   NUISANCE. Public nuisance.
   SCRAP METAL. Pieces or parts of steel, iron, tin, zinc, copper, aluminum, or
any alloy thereof, whether covered with porcelain or any other material,
whether intact or in parts, which has served its usefulness in its original
form and can no longer be used for its originally intended purpose.
   UNFIT FOR FURTHER USE. In a dangerous condition; having defective or missing
parts; or in such a condition generally as to be unfit for further use as a
conveyance.
   UNFIT FOR HUMAN HABITATION. Dangerous or detrimental to life or health
because of want of repair; defects in the drainage, plumbing, lighting,
ventilation, or construction; infection with contagious disease; or the
existence on the premises of an unsanitary condition likely to cause sickness
among occupants of the dwelling.
(Ord. 2, 2019 Series, passed 2-19-2019)
§ 92.02 COMMON LAW AND STATUTORY NUISANCES.
   In addition to what is declared in this chapter to be a public nuisance,
those offenses which are known to the common law and statutes of Kentucky as
public nuisances may be treated as such and be proceeded against as is provided
in this chapter or in accordance with any other provision of law.
(Ord. 2, 2019 Series, passed 2-19-2019) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.03 CERTAIN CONDITIONS DECLARED A NUISANCE.
   It shall be unlawful for the owner, occupant, or person having control or
management of any land within the city to permit a public nuisance to develop
thereon. The following conditions are declared to be public nuisances.
   (A)   Dwellings unfit for human habitation. Dwelling must have working
utilities, i.e. water, electricity, sewer, gas, if applicable for such dwelling
to be fit for human habitation. The erection, use, or maintenance of a dwelling
which is unfit for human habitation.
   (B)   Dangerous buildings adjoining streets. Any building, house, or
structure so out of repair and dilapidated that it will, if the condition is
allowed to continue, endanger life, limb, or property, or cause hurt, damage,
or injury to persons or property using or being upon the streets or public ways
of the city adjoining the premises, by reason of the collapse of the building,
house, or structure, or by the falling of parts thereof or of objections
therefrom.
   (C)   Dangerous trees or stacks adjoining street. Any tree, stack, or other
object standing in such a condition that it will, if the condition is allowed
to continue, endanger life, limb, or property, or cause hurt, damage, or injury
to persons or property upon the public streets or public ways adjacent thereto,
by the falling thereof or of parts thereof.
   (D)   Dilapidated buildings. Any building, house, or structure which is so
out of repair and dilapidated that it constitutes a fire hazard liable to catch
on fire or communicate fire, or which due to lack of adequate maintenance or
neglect, endangers the public health, welfare, or safety, or materially
interferes with the peaceful enjoyment by owners or occupants of adjacent
property.
   (E)   Accumulation of rubbish. Any accumulation on any premises of filth,
refuse, trash, garbage, or other waste material which endangers the public
health, welfare, or safety, or materially interferes with the peaceful
enjoyment by owners or occupants of adjacent property because of the danger
that it will catch or communicate fire, attract and propagate vermin, rodents,
or insects, or blow into any street, sidewalk, or onto the property of another.
   (F)   Noxious odors or smoke. Emission into the surrounding atmosphere of
odor, dust, smoke, or other matter which renders ordinary use or physical
occupation of other property in the vicinity uncomfortable or impossible.
   (G)   Noise. Emission of noise which is noxious enough to destroy the
enjoyment of dwellings or other uses of property in the vicinity by interfering
with the ordinary comfort of human existence.
   (H)   Storage of explosives. The storage of explosive material which creates
a safety hazard to other property or persons in the vicinity.
   (I)   Open wells. The maintenance of any open, uncovered, or insecurely
covered cistern, cellar, well, pit, excavation, or vault situated upon private
premises in any open or unfenced lot or place.
   (J)   Trees and shrubbery obstructing streets and sidewalks. The growing and
maintenance of trees with less than 14 feet clearance over streets or less than
eight feet over sidewalks, or the growing and maintenance of shrubbery in
excess of three feet in height within the radius of 20 feet from the point
where the curb line of any street intersects with curb line of another street.
No shrub shall be planted between the curb line and the property line of any
street within a radius of 20 feet from the point where the curb line of any
street intersects with the curb line of another street.
   (K)   Keeping of animals. The failure to keep an animal's pen, yard, lot, or
other enclosure in a sanitary condition and free from preventable offensive
odors.
   (L)   Junk; scrap metal; motor vehicles. The storage of motor vehicles in an
inoperative condition, motor vehicles unfit for further use, automobile parts,
or scrap metal within the city limits except on premises authorized by the city
for such purposes.
(Ord. 2, 2019 Series, passed 2-19-2019; Ord. 10, 2024, passed 5-22-2024)
Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.04 ABATEMENT PROCEDURE.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of any city law or code enforcement officer to
serve or cause to be served a notice upon the owner or occupant of any premises
on which there is kept or maintained any nuisance in violation of the
provisions of this chapter and to demand the abatement of the nuisance within
ten days, unless other time frame is set out in the notice, or unless the
nuisance constitutes an immediate danger to the health and well-being of the
community. If such danger is present, then the nuisance may be abated
immediately by the city.
      (1)   Notice shall be served upon persons by certified mail, but if the
whereabouts of the persons are unknown and cannot be ascertained by such law or
code enforcement officer in the exercise of reasonable diligence, the law or
code enforcement officer shall make an affidavit to that effect, and the
serving of notice may be made by publication in a newspaper of general
circulation for two consecutive days.
      (2)   If possible, a copy of the notice shall be posted in a conspicuous
place on the premises affected by the notice and it shall be recorded in the
office of the County Clerk.
   (B)   (1)   If the person so served does not abate the nuisance within the
ten-day period, the city may proceed to abate the nuisance, keeping an account
of the expense of the abatement, and the expense shall be charged to and paid
by the owner or occupant of the property in question.
      (2)   The city may additionally cite the offender into Boyd District
Court for a violation of this chapter subject to a fine set out in §
92.99.
   (C)   Charges for nuisance abatement shall be a lien upon the premises.
Whenever a bill for charges remains unpaid for 60 days after it has been
rendered, the City Clerk may file with the County Clerk a statement of lien
setting out the city's claim. This statement shall contain a legal description
of the premises, the expenses and costs incurred, the date the nuisance was
abated, and a notice that the city claims a lien for this amount. Notice of the
lien claim shall be mailed to the owner of the premises if his address is
known. However, failure to record the lien claim or to mail the notice, or the
failure of the owner to receive the notice, shall not affect the right to
foreclose on the lien for charges as provided in division (D) below.
   (D)   Property subject to a lien for unpaid nuisance abatement charges may
be sold for nonpayment and the proceeds of the sale shall be applied to pay the
charges after deducting costs, as is the case in the foreclosure of statutory
liens. This foreclosure shall be in equity in the name of the city.
   (E)   The City Attorney is authorized and directed to institute such
proceedings, in the name of the city, in any court having jurisdiction over the
matter, against any property for which the bill has remained unpaid 60 days
after the bill has been rendered.
(Ord. 2, 2019 Series, passed 2-19-2019) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.05 NUISANCE CREATED BY OTHERS.
   For the purposes of this chapter, it shall not be essential that the
nuisance be created or contributed to by the owner, occupant, or person having
control or management of the premises, but merely that the nuisance be created
or contributed to by licensees, invitees, guests, or other persons for whose
conduct the owner, occupant, or operator is responsible, or by persons for
whose conduct the owner, occupant, or operator is not responsible, but by the
exercise of reasonable care ought to have become aware of.
(Ord. 2, 2019 Series, passed 2-19-2019) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.06 SUSPENSION OF LICENSE.
   (A)   Whenever it is brought to the attention of the City Council that a
nuisance exists and the legislative body deems that there is an immediate
threat to the public health, safety, or welfare, the legislative body may, by
majority vote, suspend the license of any person conducting business upon the
premises where the nuisance exists.
   (B)   The City Clerk shall cause notice of the suspension to be served
personally upon the licensee or at the premises where the nuisance exists.
   (C)   Upon application of the licensee, the City Council may remove the
suspension upon such terms as it may direct.
(Ord. 2, 2019 Series, passed 2-19-2019) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.07 WEEDS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to suffer or
permit weeds and like vegetation to grow and mature upon their privately-owned
property within the city. It shall be the duty of all property owners within
the city, and they shall be required to cause such weeds and like vegetation
that may grow upon their properties to be cut and removed at least once each
month during the season between June 1 and October 15 in each year. However,
any weeded area over ten inches high at any time of the year shall be in
violation of this section.
   (B)   (1)   Should any owner of real estate located within the city fail or
refuse to comply with the provisions of this section, after having been given
ten days' notice in writing to do so, then, the city shall have the authority
to enter upon such premises and cut and remove therefrom such weeds and
vegetation, and the owners of such properties or real estate shall be required
to pay the expense or costs thereof.
      (2)   The cost of so cutting and removing of such weeds and vegetation
shall, until paid by the owner of such property, be and constitute a lien
against such real estate in favor of the city and may be enforced and collected
by any appropriate process of law.
      (3)   The city may additionally cite the offender into Boyd District
Court for a violation of this chapter subject to a fine set out in §
92.99.
(Ord. 2, 2019 Series, passed 2-19-2019) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, business or entity that violates any of the provisions of
this chapter shall, upon conviction, be fined not less than $50 nor more than
any stated amount provided in KRS 534.040(2)(c).
   (B)   Each day of violation after notification shall constitute a separate
offense.
   (C)   Nothing contained herein shall prevent the city from taking such other
lawful action as is necessary to prevent or remedy any violation.
(Ord. 2, 2019 Series, passed 2-19-2019)
   [Text resumes on page 29]
CHAPTER 93: FIREWORKS AND FIRE PREVENTION
Section
General Provisions
   
93.01   Regulation and control of storage and sales of fireworks
   
93.02   Blasting permit
   
93.03   Storage of flammables and other matter
Fires
   
93.15   Fires prohibited on floodwalls and levees
 
   
93.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 93.01 REGULATION AND CONTROL OF STORAGE AND SALES OF FIREWORKS.
   (A)   The storage and the retail sales of fireworks shall comply with all
federal and state rules and regulations.
   (B)   All persons involved in the storage and the sale of fireworks must be
16 years of age or older.
   (C)   Sales of fireworks shall not be made to anyone who is not at least 16
years of age at the time of said sales.
   (D)   There shall be fire extinguishers on the premises where fireworks are
stored or sold.
   (E)   There shall be a functioning telephone within a reasonable distance
wherever fireworks are stored or sold and said telephone shall be easily
accessible at all times for the purpose of calling the Fire Department or
summoning any other needed assistance.
   (F)   There shall be no smoking permitted on the premises where fireworks
are stored or offered for sale and appropriate no smoking signs shall be
conspicuously displayed on said premises.
   (G)   There shall be no storage or sales of fireworks within any of the
residence zones as defined in Chapter 154 of this code of ordinances.
   (H)   The storekeeper or vendor of fireworks shall obtain a minimum of
$500,000 liability insurance policy which shall also name the city as an
insured party.
   (I)   The premises where fireworks are stored or offered for sale shall be
available for reasonable inspection at all times by designated authorities of
the city.
   (J)   There shall be no fireworks sold within 300 feet of a church.
   (K)   When obtaining permit, seller must submit a copy of the State Fire
Marshal’s permit and copy of insurance policy stating city as insured party.
   (L)   City and state permits must be displayed at all times on the premises
where fireworks are stored and/or sold.
   (M)   This section shall be in full force and effect from and after its
adoption, readoption, and publication as required by law.
(Prior Code, § 93.01) (Ord. 12-1987, passed 5-28-1987; Ord. 08-2001 Series,
passed 6-26-2001) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.02 BLASTING PERMIT.
   No person shall cause a blast to occur within the city without making
application in writing beforehand, setting forth the exact nature of the
intended operation, and receiving a permit to blast from the authorized city
official. The authorized city official, before granting the permit, may require
the applicant to provide a bond to indemnify the city and all other persons
against injury or damages which might result from the proposed blasting.
(Prior Code, § 93.02) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.03 STORAGE OF FLAMMABLES AND OTHER MATTER.
   (A)   All flammable or combustible materials shall be arranged and stored in
a manner which affords reasonable safety against the danger of fire.
   (B)   Waste paper, ashes, oil rags, waste rags, excelsior, or any material
of a similar hazardous nature shall not be accumulated in any cellar or any
other portion of any building of any kind. Proper fireproof receptacles shall
be provided for these hazardous materials.
   (C)   No matter shall be stored or arranged in a manner which impedes or
prevents access to or exit from any premises in case of fire.
(Prior Code, § 93.03) Penalty, see §
93.99
FIRES
§ 93.15 FIRES PROHIBITED ON FLOODWALLS AND LEVEES.
   Fires are prohibited on any portion of property used or acquired for use
with the floodwalls, levees, or similar facilities which protect the city.
(Prior Code, § 93.10) (Ord. 2-1988, passed 3-1-1988) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is provided shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be
fined not more than $500.
(Prior Code, § 93.99)
   (B)   Violations of any of the provisions §
93.01 are illegal and subject to a fine of not less than $500 nor more than
$1,000 and each violation shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 08-2001 Series, passed 6-26-2001)
CHAPTER 94: LITTERING
Section
   
94.01   Throwing litter from vehicle
   
94.02   Tracking foreign matter on streets
   
94.03   Hauling loose material
   
94.04   Sweeping litter into gutters
   
94.05   Litter on private property
   
94.06   Burning of trash, rubbish, garbage or waste matter in the city
 
   
94.99   Penalty
§ 94.01 THROWING LITTER FROM VEHICLE.
   No person, while a driver or passenger in a vehicle, shall throw or deposit
litter upon any street or other public place within the city or upon private
property.
(Prior Code, § 94.01) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.02 TRACKING FOREIGN MATTER ON STREETS.
   No person shall drive or move any vehicle or truck within the city, the
wheels or tires of which carry onto or deposit upon any street, alley, or other
public place mud, dirt, sticky substances, litter, or foreign matter of any
kind.
(Prior Code, § 94.02) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.03 HAULING LOOSE MATERIAL.
   Every person hauling or causing to be hauled dirt, sand, gravel, cement,
fill dirt, or loose material of any kind in or upon any street, alley,
sidewalk, or other public place shall haul it or cause it to be hauled in
vehicles provided with tight boxes or beds so constructed or loaded as to
prevent any of the contents from falling or being thrown, blown, or deposited
upon any street, alley, sidewalk, or other public place. Any materials which
fall from or which are thrown, blown, or deposited from any vehicle upon any
street, alley, sidewalk, or other public place shall be removed immediately by
the person in charge of the vehicle.
(Prior Code, § 94.03) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.04 SWEEPING LITTER INTO GUTTERS.
   No person shall sweep into or deposit in any gutter, street, or other public
place within the city the accumulation of litter from any building or lot or
from any public or private sidewalk or driveway. Persons owning or occupying
property shall keep the sidewalk in front of their premises free of litter.
(Prior Code, § 94.04) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.05 LITTER ON PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   (A)   No person shall throw or deposit litter on any occupied private
property within the city, whether owned by that person or not, except that the
owner or person in control of private property may maintain authorized private
receptacles for collection in such a manner that litter will be prevented from
being carried or deposited by the elements upon streets, sidewalks, or other
public places, or upon any private property.
   (B)   No person shall throw or deposit litter on any open or vacant private
property within the city, whether owned by that person or not.
(Prior Code, § 94.05) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.06 BURNING OF TRASH, RUBBISH, GARBAGE OR WASTE MATTER IN THE CITY.
   (A)   Definitions. The following terms shall be defined for this section as
written unless context indicates or requires a different meaning.
      CLEAN LUMBER. Wood or wood products that have been cut or shaped and
includes wet, air-dried, and kiln-dried wood products and does not include
commercial or industrial waste or wood products that have been painted,
pigment-stained, or pressure-treated using any hazardous or toxic compounds.
      FIRE TRAINING. The instruction of industrial, public and private
firefighters conducted in accordance with safety standards and procedures as
accepted by the Kentucky Fire Marshal, the Kentucky Fire Commission or the
National Wildlife Coordination Group.
      GARBAGE. Animal and vegetable matter accumulated in the course of
ordinary day-to-day living.
      HOUSEHOLD RUBBISH. Waste material and trash normally accumulated by a
family in a residence in the course of ordinary day-to-day living, except for
garbage, cans, glass, or other potentially
hazardous waste materials.
      LAND CLEANING. Clearing of land for agricultural, residential, or
commercial development purpose, including the construction of roads.
      OPEN BURNING. The burning of any matter without a burn chamber approved
by the Kentucky Division of Air Quality, or without a stack or chimney with
control devices approved by the Kentucky Division of Air Quality.
      WOOD WASTE. Untreated wood and untreated wood products, including tree
stumps (whole or chipped), felled trees, tree limbs (whole or chipped), bark,
sawdust, chips, scraps, millings, and shavings. Wood waste does not include:
         (a)   Yard waste;
         (b)   Construction, renovation, or demolition waste; or
         (c)   Clean lumber.
      YARD WASTE. Grass, grass clippings, brush, shrubs, and clippings from
bushes and shrubs, which comes from residential, commercial, retain,
institutional, or industrial sources as part of maintaining yards or other
private or public lands. YARD WASTE does not include:
         (a)   Construction, renovation, and demolition waste; or
         (b)   Clean lumber.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to “open
burn” any trash, rubbish, garbage or waste matter within the city limits of
Catlettsburg.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to conduct
open burning in the city except in compliance with the following conditions:
      (1)   Only clean lumber may be used;
      (2)   All fires must be contained within an approved burning pit;
      (3)   No fire shall create an excessive or unusual smoke;
      (4)   No fire shall produce an open flame over three feet in height;
      (5)   A means of extinguishing is close by;
      (6)   All fires shall be a distance of at least 150 feet from any
structures or wood line;
      (7)   No fire shall be between the time of 6:00 p.m. to 6:00 a.m. Monday
through Saturday;
      (8)   Fires set for the purpose of cooking of food for human consumption
shall be exempt from these requirements; and
      (9)   Fires set for the purpose of instruction and training of public and
industrial employees in the methods of firefighting suppression that has been
certified by the Kentucky State Fire Commission shall be exempt from these
requirements.
   (D)   The city shall adhere to any burning ban put in place by the Kentucky
Division of Forestry or county, state, and/or Federal government.
   (E)   Any person, firm or corporation violating this section or fails to
comply therewith shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction
thereof shall be fined not less than $50, nor more than $200, and each days
burning shall be deemed a separate offense.
(Ord. 1, 2016 Series, passed 1-19-2016)
§ 94.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any of the provisions of this chapter shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and shall be fined not more than $500. Each day the violation is
committed or permitted to continue shall constitute a separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 94.99)
CHAPTER 95: FUND RAISING EVENTS
Section
Labor Day Celebration
   
95.01   Volunteer Fire Department to have control over celebration
   
95.02   Committee established
   
95.03   All events to receive written approval
   
95.04   Use of city name prohibited without approval
   
95.05   Rules and regulations
 
   
95.99   Penalty
LABOR DAY CELEBRATION
§ 95.01 VOLUNTEER FIRE DEPARTMENT TO HAVE CONTROL OVER CELEBRATION.
   The City Volunteer Fire Department shall have complete and exclusive control
over the management, supervision, and operation of the annual labor day
celebration and all other events related to said celebration.
(Prior Code, § 95.01) (Ord. 16-1989, passed 7-25-1989)
§ 95.02 COMMITTEE ESTABLISHED.
   The City Volunteer Fire Department shall establish a Labor Day Celebration
Committee with said Committee being responsible for the promulgation of rules,
regulations, and procedures to be followed by those participating in said
celebration.
(Prior Code, § 95.02) (Ord. 16-1989, passed 7-25-1989)
§ 95.03 ALL EVENTS TO RECEIVE WRITTEN APPROVAL.
   All fund raising events whether sponsored by individuals, groups, or
organizations shall receive prior written approval from the City Volunteer Fire
Department Labor Day Committee.
(Prior Code, § 95.03) (Ord. 16-1989, passed 7-25-1989) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.04 USE OF CITY NAME PROHIBITED WITHOUT APPROVAL.
   No individual, group, or organization will use or otherwise appropriate the
name of the city or any agency or department thereof without the expressed
written approval of the City Volunteer Fire Department Labor Day Committee.
(Prior Code, § 95.04) (Ord. 16-1989, passed 7-25-1989) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.05 RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   All individuals, groups, or organizations sponsoring fund raising events
shall abide by the rules and regulations as they may hereafter be set by the
City Volunteer Fire Department Labor Day Committee.
(Prior Code, § 95.05) (Ord. 16-1989, passed 7-25-1989) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
(Prior Code, § 95.99)
   (B)   Any person found to be in violation of §§
95.01 through
95.05 shall be subjected to a fine of not less than $10 nor more than $50, or
prohibited from participating in the celebrations, or both.
(Ord. 16-1989, passed 7-25-1989)
CHAPTER 96: FAIR HOUSING
Section
   
96.01   Policy
   
96.02   Definitions
   
96.03   Unlawful practices
   
96.04   Discrimination in the sale or rental of housing
   
96.05   Discrimination in the financing of housing
   
96.06   Discrimination in the provision of brokerage
   
96.07   Exemption
   
96.08   Administration
   
96.09   Education and conciliation
   
96.10   Enforcement
   
96.11   Investigations; subpoena; giving of evidence
   
96.12   Enforcement by private persons
   
96.13   Interference, coercion, or intimidation
   
96.14   Prevention of intimidation in fair housing cases
   
96.15   Effective date
 
   
96.99   Penalty
§ 96.01 POLICY.
   It is the policy of the City Council to provide, within constitutional
limitations, for fair housing throughout the city.
(Ord. 06, 1995 Series, passed 6-20-1995)
§ 96.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DISCRIMINATORY HOUSING PRACTICE. An act that is unlawful under §§
96.04, 96.05, and 96.06.
   DWELLING. Any building, structure, or portion thereof which is occupied as,
or designed or intended for occupancy as, a residence by one or more families,
and any vacant land which is offered for sale or lease for the construction or
location thereon of any such building, structure, or portion thereof.
   FAMILY. A single individual.
   PERSON. One or more individuals, corporations, partnerships, associations,
labor organizations, legal representatives, mutual companies, joint-stock
companies, trusts, unincorporated organizations, trustees, trustees in
bankruptcy, receivers, and fiduciaries.
   TO RENT. To lease, to sublease, to let, and otherwise to grant for a
consideration the right to occupy premises not owned by the occupant.
(Ord. 06, 1995 Series, passed 6-20-1995)
§ 96.03 UNLAWFUL PRACTICES.
   Subject to the provisions of division (B) below and §
96.07, the prohibitions against discrimination in the sale or rental of housing
set forth in this section shall apply to:
   (A)   All dwellings except as exempted by division (B) below;
   (B)   Nothing in §
96.04 shall apply to:
      (1)   Any single-family house sold or rented by an owner provided; that
such private individual owner does not own more than three such single-family
houses at any one time; provided further, that in the case of the sale of any
such single-family house by a private individual owner not residing in such
house at the time of such sale or who was not the most recent resident of such
house prior to such sale, the exemption granted by this division (B) shall
apply only with respect to one such sale within any 24 month period; provided
further, that such bona fide private individual owner does not own any interest
in, nor is there owned or reserved on his or her behalf, under any express or
voluntary agreement, title to or any right to all or a portion of the proceeds
from the sale or rental of, more than three such single-family houses at any
one time; provided further, that the sale or rental of any such single-family
house shall be excepted from the application of this chapter only if such house
is sold or rented:
         (a)   Without the use in any manner of the sales or rental facilities
or the sales or rental services of any real estate broker, agent, or
salesperson, or of such facilities or services of any person in the business of
selling or renting dwellings, or of any employee or agent of any such broker,
agent, salesperson, or person;
         (b)   Without the publication, posting, or mailing, after notice of
any advertisement or written notice in violation of §
96.04(C) of this chapter, but nothing in this provision shall prohibit the use
of attorneys, escrow agents, abstractors, title companies, and other such
professional assistance as necessary to perfect or transfer the title; or
      (2)   Rooms or units in dwellings containing living quarters occupied or
intended to be occupied by not more than four families living independently of
each other, if the owner actually maintains and occupies one of such living
quarters as his or her residence.
   (C)   For the purposes of division (B) above, a person shall be deemed to be
in the business of selling or renting dwellings if:
      (1)   He or she has, within the preceding 12 months, participated as
principal in three or more transactions involving the sale or rental of any
dwelling or any interest therein;
      (2)   He or she has, within the preceding 12 months, participated as
agent, other than in the sale of his or her own personal residence in providing
sales or rental facilities or sales or rental services in three or more
transactions involving the sale or rental of any dwelling or any interest
therein; or
      (3)   He or she is the owner of any dwelling designed or intended for
occupancy by, or occupied by, three or more families.
(Ord. 06, 1995 Series, passed 6-20-1995) Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.04 DISCRIMINATION IN THE SALE OR RENTAL OF HOUSING.
   As made applicable by §
96.03 and except as exempted by §§
96.03(B) and
96.07, it shall be unlawful:
   (A)   To refuse to sell or rent after the making of a bona fide offer, or to
refuse to negotiate for the sale or rental of, or otherwise make unavailable to
deny, a dwelling to any person because of race, color, religion, sex, national
origin, familial status, or disabled status;
   (B)   To discriminate against any person in the terms, conditions, or
privileges of sale or rental of a dwelling, or in the provision of services or
facilities in connection therewith, because of race, color, religion, sex,
national origin, familial status, or disabled status;
   (C)   To make, print, or publish, or cause to be made, printed, or published
any notice, statement, or advertisement, with respect to the sale or rental of
a dwelling that indicates any preference, limitation, or discrimination based
on race, color, religion, sex, national origin, familial status, or disabled
status, or an intention to make any such preference, limitation, or
discrimination; and/or
   (D)   To represent to any person because of race, color, religion, sex,
national origin, familial status, or disabled status that any dwelling is not
available for inspection, sale, or rental when such dwelling is in fact so
available.
(Ord. 06, 1995 Series, passed 6-20-1995) Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.05 DISCRIMINATION IN THE FINANCING OF HOUSING.
   It shall be unlawful for any bank, building and loan association, insurance
company, or other corporation, association, firm, or enterprise whose business
consists in whole or in part in the making of commercial real estate loans, to
deny a loan or other financial assistance to a person applying therefor for the
purpose of purchasing, constructing, improving, repairing, or maintaining a
dwelling, or to discriminate against him or her in the fixing of the amount,
interest rate, duration, or other terms or conditions of such loan or other
financial assistance, because of race, color, religion, or national origin of
such person or of any person associated with him or her in connection with such
loan or other financial assistance or the purpose of such loan or other
financial assistance, or of the present or prospective owners, lessees,
tenants, or occupants of the dwelling or dwellings in relation to which such
loan or other financial assistance is to be made or given; provided, that
nothing contained in this section shall impair the scope or effectiveness of
the exception contained in §
96.03(B).
(Ord. 06, 1995 Series, passed 6-20-1995) Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.06 DISCRIMINATION IN THE PROVISION OF BROKERAGE SERVICES.
   It shall be unlawful to deny any person access to or membership or
participation in any multiple-listing service, real estate brokers
organization, or other service, organization, or facility relating to the
business of selling or renting dwellings, or to discriminate against him or her
in the terms or conditions of such access, membership, or participation, on
account of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, familial status, or
disabled status.
(Ord. 06, 1995 Series, passed 6-20-1995) Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.07 EXEMPTION.
   Nothing in this chapter shall prohibit a religious organization,
association, or society, or any nonprofit institution or organization operated,
supervised or controlled by or in conjunction with a religious organization,
association, or society, from limiting the sale, rental, or occupancy of
dwellings which it owns or operates for other than a commercial purpose to
persons of the same religion, or from giving preference to such persons, unless
membership in such religion is restricted on account of race, color, or
national origin. Nor shall anything in this chapter prohibit a private club not
in fact open to the public, which as an incident to its primary purpose or
purposes provides lodgings which it owns or operates for other than a
commercial purpose, from limiting the rental or occupancy of such lodgings to
its members or from giving preference to its members.
(Ord. 06, 1995 Series, passed 6-20-1995)
§ 96.08 ADMINISTRATION.
   (A)   The authority and responsibility for administering this chapter shall
be in the Chief Executive Officer of the city.
   (B)   The Chief Executive Officer may delegate any of these functions,
duties, and powers to employees of the city or to boards of such employees,
including functions, duties, and powers with respect to investigating,
conciliating, hearing, determining, ordering, certifying, reporting, or
otherwise acting as to any work, business, or matter under this chapter. The
Chief Executive Officer shall by rule prescribe such rights of appeal from the
decisions of his or her hearing examiners to other hearing examiners or to
other officers in the city, to boards of officers or to himself or herself, as
shall be appropriate and in accordance with the law.
   (C)   All executive departments and agencies shall administer their programs
and activities relating to housing and urban development in a manner
affirmatively to further the purposes of this chapter and shall cooperate with
the Chief Executive Officer to further such purposes.
(Ord. 06, 1995 Series, passed 6-20-1995)
§ 96.09 EDUCATION AND CONCILIATION.
   Immediately after the enactment of this chapter, the Chief Executive Officer
shall commence such educational and conciliatory activities as will further the
purposes of this chapter. He or she shall call conferences of persons in the
housing industry and other interested parties to acquaint them with the
provisions of this chapter and his or her suggested means of implementing it,
and shall endeavor with their advice to work out programs of voluntary
compliance and of enforcement.
(Ord. 06, 1995 Series, passed 6-20-1995)
§ 96.10 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Any person who claims to have been injured by a discriminatory housing
practice or who believes that he or she will be irrevocably injured by a
discriminatory housing practice that is about to occur (hereafter “person
aggrieved”) may file a complaint with the Chief Executive Officer. Complaints
shall be in writing and shall contain such information and be in such form as
the Chief Executive Officer requires. Upon receipt of such a complaint, the
Chief Executive Officer shall furnish a copy of the same to the person or
persons who allegedly committed or is about to commit the alleged
discriminatory housing practice. Within 30 days after receiving a complaint, or
within 30 days after the expiration of any period of reference under division
(C) below, the Chief Executive Officer shall investigate the complaint and give
notice in writing to the person aggrieved whether he or she intends to resolve
it. If the Chief Executive Officer decides to resolve the complaints, he or she
shall proceed to try to eliminate or correct the alleged discriminatory housing
practice by informal methods of conference, conciliation,
and persuasion. Nothing said or done in the course of such informal endeavors
may be made public or used as evidence in a subsequent proceeding under this
chapter without the written consent of the persons concerned.
   (B)   A complaint under division (A) above shall be filed within 180 days
after the alleged discriminatory housing practice occurred. Complaints shall be
in writing and shall state the facts upon which the allegations of a
discriminatory housing practice are based. Complaints may be reasonably and
fairly amended at any time. A respondent may file an answer to the complaint
against him or her and with the leave of the Chief Executive Officer, which
shall be granted whenever it would be reasonable and fair to do so, may amend
his or her answer at any time. Both complaints and answers shall be verified.
   (C)   If within 30 days after a complaint is filed with the Chief Executive
Officer, the Chief Executive Officer has been unable to obtain voluntary
compliance with this chapter, the person aggrieved may, within 30 days
thereafter, file a complaint with the Secretary of the Department of Housing
and Urban Development. The Chief Executive Officer will assist in this filing.
   (D)   If the Chief Executive Officer has been unable to obtain voluntary
compliance within 30 days of the complaint, the person aggrieved may, within 30
days hereafter commence a civil action in any appropriate court, against the
respondent named in the complaint, to enforce the rights granted or protected
by this chapter, insofar as such rights relate to the subject of the complaint.
If the court finds that a discriminatory housing practice has occurred or is
about to occur, the court may enjoin the respondent from engaging in such
practice or order such affirmative action as may be appropriate.
   (E)   In any proceeding brought pursuant to this section, the burden of
proof shall be on the complainant.
   (F)   Whenever an action filed by an individual shall come to trial, the
Chief Executive Officer shall immediately terminate all efforts to obtain
voluntary compliance.
(Ord. 06, 1995 Series, passed 6-20-1995) Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.11 INVESTIGATIONS; SUBPOENA; GIVING OF EVIDENCE.
   (A)    In conducting an investigation, the Chief Executive Officer shall
have access at all reasonable times to premises, records, documents,
individuals, and other evidence or possible sources of evidence and may
examine, record, and copy such materials and take and record the testimony or
statements of such persons as are reasonably necessary for the furtherance of
the investigation; provided, however that the Chief Executive Officer first
complies with the provisions of the Fourth Amendment relating to unreasonable
searches and seizures. The Chief Executive Officer may issue subpoenas to
compel his or her access to or the production of such materials, or the
appearance of such persons, and may issue interrogatories to a respondent, to
the same extent and subject to the same limitations as would apply if
the subpoenas or interrogatories were issued or served in aid of civil action
in the United States District Court for the district in which the investigation
is taking place. The Chief Executive Officer may administer oaths.
   (B)   Upon written application to the Chief Executive Officer, a respondent
shall be entitled to the issuance of a reasonable number of subpoenas by and in
the name of the Chief Executive Officer to the same extent and subject to the
same limitations as subpoenas issued by the Chief Executive Officer himself or
herself. Subpoenas issued at the request of a respondent shall show on their
face the name and address of such respondent and shall state that they were
issued at his or her request.
   (C)   Witnesses summoned by subpoena of the Chief Executive Officer shall be
entitled to the same witness and mileage fees as are witnesses in proceedings
in United States district courts. Fees payable to a witness summoned by a
subpoena issued at the request of a respondent shall be paid by him or her.
   (D)   Within five days after service of a subpoena upon any person, such
person may petition the Chief Executive Officer to revoke or modify the
subpoena. The Chief Executive Officer shall grant the petition if he or she
finds that the subpoena requires appearance or attendance at an unreasonable
time or place, that it requires production of evidence which does not relate to
any matter under investigation, that it does not describe with sufficient
particularity the evidence to be produced, that compliance would be unduly
onerous, or for other good reason.
   (E)   In case of contumacy or refusal to obey a subpoena, the Chief
Executive Officer or other person at whose request it was issued may petition
for its enforcement in the municipal or state court for the district in which
the person to whom the subpoena was addressed resides, was served, or transacts
business.
   (F)   The City Attorney shall conduct all litigation in which the Chief
Executive Officer participates as a part or as amicus pursuant to this chapter.
(Ord. 06, 1995 Series, passed 6-20-1995) Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.12 ENFORCEMENT BY PRIVATE PERSONS.
   (A)   (1)   The rights granted by §§
96.03 through
96.06 may be enforced by civil actions in state or local courts of general
jurisdiction.
      (2)   A civil action shall be commenced within 180 days after the alleged
discriminatory housing practice occurred; provided, however that the court
shall continue such civil case brought pursuant to this section or §
96.10(D) from time to time before bringing it to trial if the court believes
that the conciliation efforts of the Chief Executive Officer are likely to
result in satisfactory settlement of the discriminatory housing practice
complained of in the complaint made to the Chief Executive Officer and which
practice forms the basis for the action in court; and provided however, that
any sale, encumbrance, or rental consummated prior to the issuance of any court
order issued under the authority
of this chapter, and involving a bona fide purchaser, encumbrancer, or tenant
without actual notice of the existence of the filing of a complaint or civil
action under the provisions of this chapter shall not be affected.
   (B)   The court may grant as relief, as it deems appropriate, any permanent
or temporary injunction, temporary restraining order, or other order, and may
award to the plaintiff actual damages and not more than $1,000 punitive
damages, together with court costs and reasonable attorney’s fees in the case
of a prevailing plaintiff; provided the said plaintiff in the opinion of the
court is not financially able to assume said attorney’s fees.
(Ord. 06, 1995 Series, passed 6-20-1995) Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.13 INTERFERENCE, COERCION, OR INTIMIDATION.
   It shall be unlawful to coerce, intimidate, threaten, or interfere with any
person in the exercise or enjoyment of, or on account of his or her having
exercised or enjoyed, or on account of his or her having aided or encouraged
any other person in the exercise or enjoyment of, any right granted or
protected by §§
96.03 through
96.06. This section may be enforced by appropriate civil action.
(Ord. 06, 1995 Series, passed 6-20-1995) Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.14 PREVENTION OF INTIMIDATION IN FAIR HOUSING CASES.
   Whomever, whether or not acting under color of law, by force or threat of
force willfully injures, intimidates, or interferes with, or attempts to
injure, intimidate, or interfere with:
   (A)   Any person because of his or her race, color, religion, sex, national
origin, familial status, or disabled status, and because he or she is or has
been selling, purchasing, renting, financing, occupying, or contracting or
negotiating for the sale, purchase, rental, financing, or occupation of any
dwelling, or applying for or participating in any service, organization, or
facility relating to the business of selling or renting dwellings; or
   (B)   Any person because he or she is or has been, or in order to intimidate
such person or any other person or any class of persons from:
      (1)   Participating, without discrimination on account of race, color,
religion, sex, national origin, familial status, or disabled status in any of
the activities, services, organization, or facilities described in division (A)
above; or
      (2)   Affording another person or class of persons opportunity or
protection so to participate.
(Ord. 06, 1995 Series, passed 6-20-1995) Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.15 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This chapter shall take effect from and after its passage, approval, and
publication, as required by law.
(Ord. 06, 1995 Series, passed 6-20-1995)
§ 96.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Any employee of the Chief Executive Officer who shall make public any
information in violation of §
96.10(A) shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction thereof
shall be fined not more than $1,000 or imprisoned not more than one year.
   (C)   Any person who willfully fails or neglects to attend and testify or to
answer any lawful inquiry or to produce records, documents, or other evidence,
if in his or her power to do so, in obedience to the subpoena or lawful order
of the Chief Executive Officer shall be fined not more than $1,000 or
imprisoned not more than one year, or both. Any person who, with intent thereby
to mislead the Chief Executive Officer, shall make or cause to be made any
false entry or statement of fact in any report, account, record, or other
document submitted to the Chief Executive Officer pursuant to his or her
subpoena or other order, or shall willfully neglect or fail to make or cause to
be made full, true, and correct entries in such reports, accounts, records, or
other documents, or shall willfully mutilate, alter, or by any other means
falsify any documentary evidence, shall be fined not more than $1,000 or
imprisoned not more than one year, or both.
   (D)   Any citizen because he or she is or has been, or in order to
discourage such citizen or any other citizen from lawfully aiding or
encouraging other persons to participate, without discrimination on account of
race, color, religion, or national origin, in any of the activities, services,
organizations, or facilities described in §
96.14(A), or participating lawfully in speech or peaceful assemble opposing any
denial of the opportunity to so participate shall be fined not more than $1,000
or imprisoned not more than one year, or both; and if bodily injury results
shall be fined not more than $10,000, or imprisoned not more than ten years, or
both; and if death results shall be subject to imprisonment for any term of
years or for life.
(Ord. 06, 1995 Series, passed 6-20-1995)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   OCCUPATIONAL LICENSES
      
111.   INSURANCE COMPANIES
      
112.   PROHIBITED COMMERCIAL AND BUSINESS ACTIVITIES
      
113.   PEDDLERS, ITINERANT MERCHANTS, AND SOLICITORS
      
114.   ADVERTISING
      
115.   PAWNBROKERS
      
116.   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
CHAPTER 110: OCCUPATIONAL LICENSES
Section
   
110.01   Definitions
   
110.02   Levy of license fee; general
   
110.03   Employees
   
110.04   Net business profit
   
110.05   Exemptions
   
110.06   Returns and payment of tax; generally
   
110.07   Extension of time for filing returns
   
110.08   Enforcing officers; powers and duties
   
110.09   Exclusion of levies prohibited by law
   
110.10   Information; confidential; offense; fine
   
110.11   Violations; fines
   
110.12   Revenue to be deposited in General Fund
   
110.13   License fee due date
 
   
110.99   Penalty
§ 110.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CORPORATION. A corporation or joint stock association organized under the
laws of the United States, the commonwealth, or any other state, territory, or
foreign country or dependents.
   EMPLOYEE. Any person who renders services to another for a financial
consideration or its equivalent, under an express or implied contract, and who
is under the control and direction of the latter, and shall include temporary,
provisional, casual, or part-time employment.
   EMPLOYER. An individual, partnership, association, corporation, governmental
body, or unit or administration or agency, or any other entity, who as that
EMPLOYER has one or more persons on a salary, wage, commission, or other
compensation basis, regardless of whether such EMPLOYER is engaged in business
or is excluded by the terms of that definition.
   NET PROFIT. The net income from the operation of a business or enterprise
after provision for all costs or expenses incurred in the conduct thereof and
shall be the same as reported for federal income tax purposes, excluding items
exempted under this chapter but without deduction of taxes based on income or
the license fee imposed under this chapter or any operating loss carry-over or
carry-back.
   NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS. Trade association, union, chamber of commerce,
board of trade, or corporation or association organized and operated
exclusively for religious, charitable, scientific, literary, educational, or
civic purposes, or for the prevention of cruelty to children or animals; or
clubs or fraternal organizations operated exclusively for social, literary,
educational, or fraternal purposes, where no part of the earnings or income or
receipts of such units, groups, or associations inures to the benefit of any
private shareholder or individual.
   NONRESIDENT. An individual, partnership, fiduciary, association,
corporation, or other entity domiciled outside the corporate limits of the
city.
   RESIDENT. An individual, partnership, association, corporation, or other
entity domiciled or having a business situs within the corporate limits of the
city.
   SALES. Net sales of merchandise or of services, or of both, computed by
whatever method of accounting is authorized for federal income tax purposes.
   SALES WITHIN THE CITY. Sales of merchandise delivered to a customer within
the city or services performed within the city for a customer.
(Ord. 6, 2009, passed 6-11-2009)
§ 110.02 LEVY OF LICENSE FEE; GENERAL.
   There is hereby levied and imposed an annual license fee upon all persons,
associations, corporations, or other entities engaged in any occupation, trade,
profession, or other activity in the city for the privilege of engaging in such
occupation, trade, profession, or other activity, which license fee shall be
measured by and be equal to 1.5% of all subject salaries, wages, commissions,
and other compensation, earned by every person in the city for work done or
services performed or rendered in the city regardless of where payment is made
or received; and of the net profits of all businesses, professions, or
occupations from activities conducted in the city.
(Ord. 6, 2009, passed 6-11-2009)
§ 110.03 EMPLOYEES.
   (A)   Employees in general. The license fee is imposed on both residents and
nonresidents of the city at the rate of 1.5% of all subject salaries, wages,
commissions, and other compensation earned for work done or services performed
or rendered in the city. The following are subject to license fee:
      (1)   Salaries, wages, commissions, bonuses, incentive payments, and
other compensation received by an individual, whether directly or indirectly
through an agent and whether in cash or in property, for services rendered:
         (a)    As an officer, director, agent, or employee, or both, of a
corporation (including a corporation of the first or nonprofit class), joint
stock association, or joint stock company;
         (b)   As an officer, agent, or employee (as distinguished from a
partner or member) of a partnership, limited partnership, or any other form of
unincorporated enterprise owned by one or more persons;
         (c)   As an agent employee (as distinguished from the proprietor) of a
business, trade, or profession, conducted by an individual owner;
         (d)   As an officer, agent, or employee (whether elected or appointed,
enlisted, or commissioned) of a governmental administration, agency, arm,
authority, board, body, branch, bureau, department, division, section, or unit
thereof; or
         (e)   As an officer, agent, or employee of any other entity.
      (2)   Salaries, wages, bonuses, incentive payments, and other
compensation received by an individual, whether directly or through an agent
and whether in cash or in property, for services rendered:
         (a)   Whether based upon hourly, daily, weekly, semimonthly, monthly,
annual, unit of production of piece-work rates; and
         (b)   Whether paid by an individual, partnership, association,
corporation (including a corporation of the first or nonprofit class),
governmental administration, agency, arm, authority, board, body, branch,
bureau, department, division, section, or unit, or any other entity.
      (3)   Commissions received by an employee, whether directly or through an
agent, and whether in cash or in property, for services rendered, regardless of
how computed or by whom paid. If such commissions are included in the net
earnings of a trade, business, or profession regularly carried on by such
individual and, therefore subject to license fees under §
110.04, they shall not again be separately taxed;
      (4)   Fees and other earned income, unless such fees are properly
included as part of the net profits of a trade, business, profession, or
enterprise regularly carried on by the individual and such net profits are
subject to tax under §
110.04. Compensation paid to a director or officer of a corporation are subject
to withholding under this chapter as in the case of any other employee; and
      (5)   Other compensation will be treated as follows.
         (a)   Subject to the license fee.
            1.   Tips received by waiters and others. Tips received are subject
to the license fee and will be reported in the same manner as regular earnings.
            2.   Vacation, holiday, and/or sick benefits. Payments made to
employees by an employer as vacation, holiday, and/or sick payments are
subject.
            3.   Separation payments. Payments made to employees by an employer
at the time of a voluntary or involuntary separation (dismissal) of the
employee from the service of the employer, are to be regarded as subject to the
license fee.
            4.   Employee contributions to any retirement, profit sharing, or
deferred compensation plan. Employee contributions to any retirement, profit
sharing, or deferred compensation plan, which are deferred for federal income
tax purposes under a salary reduction agreement or similar arrangement,
including but not limited to salary reduction arrangements under I.R.C. §§ 401
(a), 401(k), 402(e), 403(a), 403(b), 408, 414(h), or 457.
            5.   Employee contributions to any welfare benefit, fringe benefit,
or other benefit plan. Employee contributions to any welfare benefit, fringe
benefit, or other benefit plan made by salary reduction or other payment method
which permits employees to elect to reduce federal taxable compensation under
the Internal Revenue Code, including but not limited to I.R.C. §§ 125 and 132.
            6.   Property and services received as compensation. The fair
market value of property or services received as compensation by an employee
and paid by the employer including board and lodging and similar items where
such board and lodging is considered part of the compensation paid and is not
afforded for the convenience of the employer.
            7.   Other income. All other income paid by an employer and
received by an employee for the performance of any activity subject to the
license fee, not expressly exempt (see division (A)(5)(b) below) unless such
income is to be reported and a net profit license fee paid thereon under the
provisions of these regulations.
         (b)   Not subject to license fee.
            1.   Retirement payments. Periodical payments commonly recognized
as old-age or retirement pensions, made to persons retired from service after
reaching a specified age or after a stated period of employment, are not
subject to the license fee.
            2.   Disability and unemployment compensation. Payments made to
employees by an employer under a disability or accident plan are not subject to
the license fee. Unemployment compensation payments by the state or any other
agency are not subject.
            3.   Death benefits. Death benefits payable by an employer to the
beneficiary of an employee or to the employee’s estate, whether payable in a
single sum or otherwise, are not subject to the license fee.
            4.   Benefits arising under the Workers’ Compensation Act. Amounts
received by employees under the Workers’ Compensation Act, being KRS 97-1 et
seq., as compensation for a disability sustained during the course of
employment, together with any amount of damages received by suit or agreement
on account of such disability, are not subject to the license fee.
            5.   Allowances and reimbursement for expenses. Reasonable sums
allowed and paid by employers to employees for expenses necessarily and
actually incurred by the employee in the direct performance of his or her
services.
            6.   Strike benefits. Strike pay benefits paid from a fund which is
established and/or replenished, in whole or in part, from the employee’s wages.
            7.   Kentucky National Guard. Compensation paid members of the
Kentucky National Guard for active duty training, unit training assemblies, and
annual field training.
            8.   Employer contributions. Employer contributions to qualified
plans not arising from employee election.
            9.   Employer payments for employee benefits. Employer’s payments
for employee’s life insurance premiums not treated as wages for Federal Income
Tax purposes, employer’s payments for employee’s health insurance benefits.
            10.   Student grants. Stipends, honorariums, grants, and other
payments made to students to the extent that such payments are conditioned only
upon the recipient’s pursuit of studies and/or participation in athletic or
other intercollegiate competition, and scholarships and other noncash fringe
benefits received by duly registered students from, the school, college, or
university in which they are enrolled.
            11.   Payments to nonresident military personnel. Payments to
nonresident military personnel exempt from state and location taxation under
the Soldiers and Sailors Federal Relief Act (50 U.S.C. § 574).
            12.   Domestic workers or care providers. Compensation to
individual domestic workers or care providers.
            13.   Individuals with single newspaper routes. Compensation to
individuals with single newspaper routes.
         (c)   Applicability of the foregoing to employees whose compensation
is not wholly subject. In the case of individuals whose compensation is earned
for services performed both within and without the city and who receive subject
payments as set forth in the foregoing rules and regulations, they are subject
to the license fee in the same proportion that services performed within the
city bear to their total employment time.
   (B)   Withholding of license fee.
      (1)   (a)   It is the duty of each employer who employs one or more
persons on a salary, wage, commission, or other compensation basis, to deduct,
at the time of the payment of such compensation, the license fee on such
salary, wage, bonus, incentive payment, commission, or other compensation due
by the employer to the employee. The license fee shall be deducted by the
employer from all compensation paid to employees for activities in the city.
         (b)   However, the mere fact that the license fee is not withheld will
not relieve the employee of the responsibility of filing a return and paying
the fee on the compensation received. A nonresident employer, either
maintaining in the city an office, business address, or doing business therein,
or who is otherwise subject to service of legal process, is subject to the
withholding provisions of this chapter.
      (2)   Where an individual receives compensation for personal services
rendered or performed partly within and partly outside the city, the
withholding agent shall deduct and withhold that portion of the compensation
which is earned within the city in accordance with the following rules of
apportionment.
         (a)   If the individual is a traveling salesperson, agent, or other
employee, whose compensation on the basis of commission depends directly on the
volume of business transacted by the individual, the deducting and withholding
shall attach to the portion of the entire compensation which the volume of
business transacted by the employee within the city bears to the volume of
business transacted by the employee both within and outside of the city. There
shall be no proration of compensation for employees headquartered within the
city where travel is only incidentally connected with the occupation.
         (b)   The deducting and withholding of personal service compensation
of all other employees, including officers of corporations, shall attach to the
portion of the personal service compensation of such employee which the total
number of hours employed within the city bears to the total number of hours
employed both within and outside the city.
         (c)   If it is impossible to apportion the earnings as in divisions
(B)(2)(a) and (B)(2)(b) above because of the peculiar nature of the services of
the employee, or of the usual basis of compensation, apportionment shall be
made in accordance with the facts, and the fee deducted and withheld
accordingly. With respect to each such employee or group of employees similarly
or identically circumstanced, the employer shall furnish the City Treasurer a
detailed statement of facts.
         (d)   The occasional entry into the city of an employee, who performs
the duties for which the employee is employed entirely outside the city, but
enters the city for the purposes of reporting, receiving instructions,
accounting, and the like, incidental to the employee’s duties outside the city
shall not be deemed to take such employee out of the class of those rendering
their services entirely outside the city.
   (C)   Returns of license fee and payment.
      (1)   The return and payment required to be made on account of deductions
by employers from salaries, wages, and other compensation of employees shall be
made on the last day of the month following the end of the calendar quarter.
      (2)   (a)   If the last day of the month following the end of the
calendar quarter falls on a Saturday, Sunday, or legal holiday, the return and
payment shall be made on the next regularly scheduled working day. If the
envelope bearing the return(s) is postmarked on or before the due date, late
filing penalties will not apply. The employer shall report for the quarterly
periods ending March 31, June 30, September 30, and December 31 of each year
the wages from which license fees have been so withheld, and shall make the
payment required to be made on account of the employee withholding of
occupational license fees on or before the time required for the filing of the
quarterly returns.
         (b)   Notwithstanding the provisions of division (C)(2)(a) above, each
employer who employs persons within the city for which the aggregate city
occupational license fees required to be withheld from all employee wages for
any one of the preceding four quarters shall have exceeded the sum of $3,000,
shall remit the occupational license fees required to be withheld from
employees monthly on or before the last day of the month following the month in
which the wages shall have been paid by the employer, or (in the case of
deferred compensation subject to the license fees imposed hereunder) on the
last day of the month following the month in which the compensation is deemed
to have been earned by the employee.
      (3)   The returns required to be filed under this chapter shall be made
on forms prescribed by and obtainable from the City Treasurer.
      (4)   On or before February 28 of each year, each employer shall file
with the City Treasurer on the form prescribed by and obtainable from the City
Treasurer an annual information return listing each employee from whom the
license fee has been withheld, showing the employees name, Federal ID number
(Social Security number), total annual compensation, total annual compensation
subject to the license fee, and the amount of license fee withheld from each
employee during the preceding calendar year.
      (5)   The annual information return shall include a copy of form W-2 for
each employee.
      (6)   The gross compensation to be reported for each employee should be
for the full 12 calendar months of the year, or such portion thereof as the
employee reported on was employed.
      (7)   The failure of any employer, either residing within or outside of
the city, to collect the license fee and to make such return, shall not relieve
the employee from the payment of such fee in compliance with these regulations
respecting the making of returns and the payment of license fees.
      (8)   Every employer is deemed to be a trustee of the city in collecting
and holding the license fee required under this chapter to be withheld, and the
funds so collected by such withholding are deemed to be trust funds. Every such
employer required to deduct and withhold the license fee at the source is
liable directly to the city for the payment of such fee whether actually
collected by such employer or not.
      (9)   Every employer is required to submit a copy of Forms 1096 and the
respective Form 1099s to reflect monies paid to contract labor, subcontractors,
and the like.
      (10)   An individual employee subject to the fee shall file his or her
return on or before April 15 of each year for the previous year’s wages/
compensation on the forms prescribed by the city and obtainable from the
Occupational License/Net Profit Division and/or the City Treasurer.
(Ord. 6, 2009, passed 6-11-2009)
§ 110.04 NET BUSINESS PROFIT.
   (A)   General. In the case of an individual, partnership, association,
corporation, fiduciary, or other entity engaged in the conduct, operation, or
prosecution of any business, profession, or other enterprise, there is imposed
an annual license fee being the greater of $100 or 1.5% of the net profits of
such business, profession, or other enterprise, if and to the extent conducted
in or derived from activity in the city, whichever is greater. In determining
the proportion or amount of the subject net profits of a business entity doing
business within and without the city, such business entity shall use and apply
a business allocation percentage formula computed on the basis of business
receipts within and outside the
city and payrolls within and outside the city. BUSINESS RECEIPTS means the sum
total of gross receipts from sales plus gross credit or charges for work done
and performed or services rendered. PAYROLLS means the total wages, salaries,
and other personal service compensation.
      (1)   Determination of fee. After determining such business allocation
percentage, the license fee shall be determined by applying that percentage to
the entire net profits of the license payer wherever derived, thus arriving at
the subject net profit, and computing 1.5% of the resultant subject net profit.
      (2)   Fee adjustment. Should it appear to the City Treasurer that any
agreement, understanding, or arrangement exists between the license payer and
any other person whereby the activity, business, income, or capital of the
license payer is improperly or inaccurately reflected, the City Treasurer may
adjust items of income, deductions, and capital in computing any allocation
percentage, provided any income directly traceable thereto is also excluded
from entire net income, so as equitably to determine the license fee.
      (3)   Explanation of business receipts factor. The percentage of the
license payer’s business receipts within the city is determined by ascertaining
the taxpayer’s business receipts within the city during the period covered by
the report and dividing the sum of such business receipts by the license
payer’s total business receipts within and without the city during such period.
Receipts from the following are allocable to the city:
         (a)   Sales of the licensee’s tangible personal property delivered to
the buyer within the corporate limits of the city;
         (b)   Work done and performed or services rendered in the city;
         (c)   Rentals from property situated in the city where the rental of
such property is a business activity;
         (d)   All other business receipts earned in the city. All receipts of
the period covered by the report (computed on the cash or accrual basis, in
accordance with the method of accounting used in the computation of the license
payer’s entire net income) must be taken into account; and
         (e)   Business allocation factor equals “receipts inside city” divided
by “total receipts.”
FACTOR = RECEIPTS INSIDE CITY TOTAL RECEIPTS
      (4)   Compensation for work done and performed or services rendered.
         (a)   COMPENSATION may include not only payment in cash or property,
but also the gross credits to or charges by the licensee, under its normal and
usual accounting practices, for the performance of work or services. For
example, a plant, factory, or other establishment in the city which processes
material or manufactures parts for other plants or factories owned by the
licensee, and which may receive credit for the performance of such services
only by bookkeeping entries, may be chargeable
under this chapter with the gross amount of such entries in applying the
formula discussed hereunder. Furthermore, such bookkeeping entries may be
considered in lieu of cash or property payment in determining the net profits
of any license payer under this chapter, even though the business allocation
percentage formula may not be used by or be applicable to the licensee.
However, whenever such gross credits or charges are included in computing the
net profits of any licensee who pays a license fee thereon under this chapter,
the same licensee shall not be twice subject in the same fee period by the
separate imposition of a fee upon such gross credits or charges.
         (b)   Compensation and other receipts from work done or services
performed within the city are allocable to the city and subject under this
chapter. All amounts so received credited or charged by a licensee in payment
for such work or services are so allocable, irrespective of whether done or
performed by employees or agents of the licensee, by subcontractors, or by any
other persons. It is immaterial where such amounts were payable or where they
were received. Commissions or fees received by the licensee are allocated to
the city if the services for which the commissions were paid were performed in
the city. If the license payer’s services for which commissions or fees were
paid were performed for the license payer by sales persons or other agents or
employees attached to or working out of the city place of business of the
licensee, the licensee’s services will be deemed to have been performed in the
city. Where a lump sum is received by the licensee in payment for services
within and outside the city, the amount attributable to services within the
city is to be determined on the basis of the relative values of, or amounts of
time spent in the performance of, such services within and outside the city, or
by some other reasonable method approved by the City Treasurer. Full details
must be submitted with the licensee’s report.
         (c)   All business receipts earned by the city licensee within the
city are allocable to the city. Business receipts are not considered to have
been earned by the licensee in the city solely by reason of the fact that they
were payable in or actually received in the city. Receipts for sales of capital
assets (property not held by the licensee for sale to customers in the regular
course of business) are not business receipts. Receipts from the sale of real
property held by the licensee as a dealer for sale to customers in the regular
course of business are business receipts and are allocable to the city if the
real property was situated in the city. Receipts from sales of intangibles
included in business capital, held by the licensee as a dealer for sale to
customers in the regular course of business, are business receipts and are
allocable to the city if the sales were made in the city or through a regular
place of business of the licensee in the city.
      (5)   Payroll factor.
         (a)   The percentage of the license payer’s payroll allocable to the
city is determined by dividing the wages, salaries, and other personal service
compensation of the licensee’s employees within the city during the period
covered by the report by the total amount of compensation of all the licensee’s
employees during such period. Wages, salaries, and other compensation are
computed on the cash or accrual basis in accordance with the method of
accounting used in the computation of the entire net income of the licensee.
         (b)   Employees within the city include all employees regularly
connected with a place of business maintained by the licensee in the city.
Wherever it appears that the licensee’s payroll was paid to employees attached
to places of business outside the city who performed services within the city,
the payroll factor is to be computed by deriving the percentage which the
licensee’s payroll paid in the city bears to his or her total payroll. In any
such case, where an employee performed services both within and without the
city, the amount treated as compensation for services performed within the city
shall be deemed to be:
            1.   In the case of an employee whose compensation depends directly
on the volume of business secured by that employee, such as a salesperson on a
commission basis, the amount received by that employee for the business
attributable to the employee’s efforts within the city;
            2.   In the case of an employee whose compensation depends on other
results achieved, the proportion of the total compensation which the value of
the employee’s services within the city bears to the value of all the
employee’s services;
            3.   In the case of an employee compensated on a time basis, the
proportion of the total amount received by the employee which the working time
employed in the city bears to the total working time; and
            4.   The accounting method used to compute net profits subject to
the license fee shall be the same as the method used to compute net income for
federal income tax purposes, excluding all taxes based on net income, license
fees imposed under this chapter and the net operating loss carry-forward or
carry-back used to reduce net income for the current year.
   (B)   Application process. An application for business privilege can be
obtained from the City Treasurer. Every person desiring to conduct business in
the city shall fully comply with the following:
      (1)   A completed application shall be submitted to the City Treasurer
with the required fee.
      (2)   The application shall be forwarded to the Fire Inspector, Code
Official, and Zoning Office. Each vendor with a physical location in the city
must meet all requirements of the Chapters 150 and 154 of this code of
ordinances and are subject to inspection from the City Code Enforcement
Division. Business locations that fail to meet the zoning requirements and fire
regulations could be subject to fines and possible closure until such zoning
and safety issues are resolved.
      (3)   There shall be a fee of $10 for each additional business location.
All information regarding the new location shall be supplied to the City
Treasurer and any required inspections shall be performed prior to the opening
of the additional location.
      (4)   There shall be an additional fee of $50 for businesses that open
and conduct business prior to obtaining a business license. The business shall
still be subject to inspections by the Code Official and License Administrator.
Citations may be issued, which could result in fines, closure, or any
combination thereof.
   (C)   Business license fees.
      (1)   Every person conducting a business as defined in this chapter shall
obtain a license from the License Fee Division before commencement of such
business, the fee for which shall be $100.
      (2)   This fee will be credited in full to the account of the license
payer and applied against the annual net business profit fee.
      (3)   A late fee of $25 shall be applied to those businesses failing to
renew their license within 30 days of the expiration date.
      (4)   Every entity conducting business within the city must file with the
City Treasurer a statement of estimated net profits to be earned during the
accounting year prior to issuance of the license. Upon the filing, the entity
shall pay one-fourth of any license fees estimated to be due. Thereafter, at
the end of each month succeeding each calendar quarter, each licensee shall pay
to the city one-fourth of said estimated license fees due.
   (D)   Temporary licenses.
      (1)   Every person conducting business on a temporary basis will be
subject to a license fee in the amount of $10 per day for a period not to
exceed five days per event with the exception of temporary off-site motor
vehicle sales. Temporary license applications may be obtained from the City
Treasurer.
      (2)   Temporary licenses shall be issued to businesses participating in
special city events, festivals, and other activities as approved by the City
Council. Vendors who propose to operate beyond the five-day limit shall be
subject to the minimum annual fee as required in division (B) above.
      (3)   Persons/businesses soliciting door-to-door on a temporary basis
shall be required to purchase a regular city license and shall be required to
notify the City Police Department and the City Treasurer of the type of
solicitation along with the name of each individual participating in the door
to door solicitation. Vendors desiring to acquire a temporary license to sell
or solicit business from temporary structures, carts, tables, sheds, or
vehicles on private property or city right-of-way or streets are required to
obtain approval prior to the commencement of business from the City Council.
      (4)   Vendors participating in special events at business locations may
be approved by the City Treasurer if obtained prior to the event.
      (5)   Food and lunch vendors, ice cream trucks, and approved vehicles
that regularly sell food goods from their vehicles which have been duly
licensed to operate within the city and have State Health Department approval
shall not be considered temporary vendors and shall comply with the provisions
in this division (D)(5). Lemonade and refreshment stands operated by
neighborhood children are exempted from this section.
(Ord. 6, 2009, passed 6-11-2009)
§ 110.05 EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   No license under this chapter shall be required of domestic workers
employed at private homes.
   (B)   A sale of used goods conducted or participated in by the resident of
the residential property on which the sale takes place shall not be considered
a business for purposes of this chapter unless those sales are conducted for
more than four consecutive days or for more than two times a year.
(Ord. 6, 2009, passed 6-11-2009)
§ 110.06 RETURNS AND PAYMENT OF TAX; GENERALLY.
   (A)   Every person whose earnings of net profits are subject to the license
fee imposed by this chapter shall file, by April 15, an annual city return with
the City Treasurer.
   (B)   Where the entire earnings for the year are paid by one and the same
employer and the license fee has in each instance been withheld or deducted by
the employer from the gross amount of compensation without adjustment for
expenses, it shall not be necessary for such employee to file a return for the
year unless required or requested to do so by the City Treasurer.
   (C)   If the return is made for a fiscal year or for any period other than a
calendar year, the return shall be due the fifteenth day of the fourth month
following the close of the fiscal year.
   (D)   The person making the return shall, at the time of filing thereof, pay
to the city the amount of the fee shown to be due by the return.
   (E)   Where any portion of the license fee otherwise due shall have been
deducted at the source and shall have been paid to the city by the person
making the deduction, a credit equal to the amount so paid shall be deducted
from the amount shown to be due and only the balance, if any, shall be due and
payable at the time of the filing of the return.
   (F)   If a licensee shall terminate any business or employment for which the
license fee has not been withheld, during the calendar or fiscal year, the
proper return shall be filed and the tax paid on the last day of the fourth
month after the termination of the business or employment.
   (G)   If the due date of a return falls on a Saturday, Sunday, or legal
holiday, the return shall be filed on the next regularly scheduled work day. If
the envelope bearing the return is postmarked on or before the due date, late
filing penalties will not apply.
   (H)   An executed copy of the licensee’s federal income tax return and/or
state tax return and any other pertinent information as required by the City
Treasurer shall be filed with the annual return.
   (I)   Requests for refunds will be held if the business is delinquent in the
payment of other fees or late in filing returns with the city.
(Ord. 6, 2009, passed 6-11-2009)
§ 110.07 EXTENSION OF TIME FOR FILING RETURNS.
   (A)   An extension of time for filing a license fee return may be granted if
the licensee notifies the City Treasurer in writing by the due date for filing
the return. The period shall not exceed the time period granted for filing an
entity’s federal income tax return. A copy of the federal extension request
form may be used, provided the licensee’s business license number and city
business name appear on such request. In no event shall an extension be granted
to a business that is delinquent in any previous filings or payment of any
fees.
   (B)   An automatic extension of time for filing the net profit license fee
return does not extend the time of payment of the license fee. Payment of 90%
of the estimated license fees must accompany the request for an extension.
Merely sending a tentative or estimated payment is not acceptable.
   (C)   Penalty and interest shall be applied as provided in §
110.11. No penalty shall be assessed in those cases in which all filing and
payment requirements have in good faith been fulfilled and the final license
fee and interest is paid with the filing of the net profit.
(Ord. 6, 2009, passed 6-11-2009) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.08 ENFORCING OFFICERS; POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   The City Treasurer is hereby charged with the enforcement of the
provisions of this chapter. The City Treasurer is hereby empowered to
prescribe, adopt, promulgate, and enforce rules, regulations, and forms
relating to any matter or thing pertaining to the administration and
enforcement of the provisions of this chapter, including but not limited to
provisions for the reexamination and correction of returns as to which an
overpayment or underpayment is claimed or found to have been made; and the
rules and regulations promulgated by the City Treasurer shall be binding upon
the licensee and the employers provided, however, that any application for
refund of overpayment shall be refunded if a claim for refund is made within
two years from the date on which such payment was made and paid, shall be made
by the taxpayer under oath on a form prescribed by the director, and the
information contained therein or submitted therewith shall be verified by the
taxpayer’s employers. No refund shall be made to any licensee or person until
the taxpayer has complied with all provisions of the chapter and has furnished
all required information. Refunds may be withheld from an employee until the
employer has filed all required forms and provided all required information.
Overpayments will first be applied to previous occupational license fee
delinquencies prior to any other disposition.
   (B)   The City Treasurer or any agent or employee designated in writing by
the City Treasurer is hereby authorized to examine the books, papers, and
records of any employer or supposed employer or of any licensee or supposed
licensee in order to determine the accuracy of any return made, or if no
return was made, to ascertain the amount of license fee imposed by the terms of
this chapter. Each such employer or supposed employer or licensee or supposed
licensee is hereby directed and required to give to the City Treasurer or the
City Treasurer’s duly authorized agent or employee the means, facilities, and
opportunity for such examination and investigation as are hereby authorized.
The City Treasurer or any agent or employee designated by the City Treasurer is
hereby authorized to examine any person under oath concerning any wages,
salaries, commissions, or other compensation or net profits which were or
should have been returned; and to this end the City Treasurer may compel the
production of books, papers, records, and the attendance of all persons,
whether as parties or witnesses, whom the City Treasurer believes to have
knowledge of such wages, salaries, commissions, or other compensation or net
profits, to the extent that any officer empowered to administer oaths in this
state is permitted to so order.
(Ord. 6, 2009, passed 6-11-2009)
§ 110.09 EXCLUSION OF LEVIES PROHIBITED BY LAW.
   It is not the intention of the city or of this chapter to impose and require
an occupational license fee prohibited by law.
(Ord. 6, 2009, passed 6-11-2009)
§ 110.10 INFORMATION; CONFIDENTIAL; OFFENSE; FINE.
   Any information or materials filed with the Occupational License/Net Profit
Division pursuant to this chapter or received as a result of any returns,
investigations, hearings, or verifications required or authorized by this
chapter shall be and remain strictly confidential. Any person or agent
divulging such information to any unauthorized party shall be guilty of a Class
A misdemeanor and subject to fines and imprisonment as set out in KRS 67.790.
However, such persons may disclose to the State Commissioner of Revenue or his
or her duly authorized agent all such information and right to inspect any of
the books and records of the city if the State Commissioner of Revenue grants
to the city the reciprocal right to obtain information from the files and
records of the State Department of Revenue and maintains the privileged
character of the information so furnished to him or her.
(Ord. 6, 2009, passed 6-11-2009)
§ 110.11 VIOLATIONS; FINES.
   No person shall fail, neglect, or refuse to make any return, or part
thereof, including Form 1099 and W-2s, federal tax return, state tax return for
net profits, required by this chapter. No employer shall fail to withhold the
employee license fee and to pay over to the city the fees so withheld. No
person shall refuse to permit the City Treasurer or any agent or employee
designated in writing by the City Treasurer to examine the financial records,
books, and papers. No person shall knowingly make any incomplete, false, or
fraudulent return. No person shall fail, neglect, or refuse to apply for an
occupational license fee reporting number or business license. No person shall
attempt to do anything whatever to avoid the
full disclosure of the amount of earnings or profits in order to avoid payment
of the whole or any part of the occupational license fee. A person who shall
violate any of the provisions of this chapter shall be subject to be fined
pursuant to the provisions of KRS 67.790.
(Ord. 6, 2009, passed 6-11-2009) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.12 REVENUE TO BE DEPOSITED IN GENERAL FUND.
   All revenue derived under this chapter shall be deposited in the General
Fund.
(Ord. 6, 2009, passed 6-11-2009)
§ 110.13 LICENSE FEE DUE DATE.
   The occupational license fee shall become due or payable on or before June
30 of each year.
(Prior Code, § 110.09) (Ord. 23-1986, passed 7-8-1986)
§ 110.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   A penalty of 55% per month or fraction thereof (maximum of 25%/minimum
of $25) on any license fees remaining unpaid or for any late return made after
they become due shall be assessed.
   (B)   Interest at the rate of 12% per annum shall be added to any license
fee remaining unpaid after it becomes due unless judgment is obtained in which
12% after judgment shall apply.
(Ord. 6, 2009, passed 6-11-2009)
CHAPTER 111: INSURANCE COMPANIES
Section
   
111.01   Imposition of license fee
   
111.02   Fee for life insurance companies
   
111.03   Fee for insurance other than life insurance
   
111.04   Due date; application for refunds; delinquency
   
111.05   Written breakdown of collections required
§ 111.01 IMPOSITION OF LICENSE FEE.
   There is hereby imposed on each insurance company a license fee for the
privilege of engaging in the business of insurance within the corporate limits
of the city, on a calendar-year basis.
(Prior Code, § 110.20)
§ 111.02 FEE FOR LIFE INSURANCE COMPANIES.
   The license fee imposed upon each insurance company which issues life
insurance policies on the lives of persons residing within the corporate limits
of the city shall be 16% for the first year’s premiums actually collected
within each calendar quarter by reason of the issuance of such policies.
(Prior Code, § 110.21) (Ord. 8, 2010 Series, passed 9-21-2010; Am. Ord. 4, 2018
Series, passed 6-19-2018)
§ 111.03 FEE FOR INSURANCE OTHER THAN LIFE INSURANCE.
   (A)   The license fee imposed upon each insurance company which issues any
insurance policy which is not a life insurance policy shall be 16% of the
premiums actually collected within each calendar quarter by reason of the
issuance of such policies on risks located within the corporate limits of the
city on those classes of business which such company is authorized to transact,
less all premiums returned to policy holders.
   (B)   Any license fee or tax imposed upon premium receipts shall not include
premiums received on: policies of group health insurance provided for state
employees under KRS 18A.225; policies insuring employers against liability for
personal injuries to their employees or the death of their employees caused
thereby, under the provisions of the Workers’ Compensation Act, being KRS 97-
1 et seq.; health
insurance policies issued to individuals; policies issued through Kentucky
Access created in KRS Ch. 304, Subtitle 17B; or policies for high deductible
health plans as defined in 26 U.S.C. § 223(c)(2).
(Prior Code, § 110.22) (Ord. 8, 2010 Series, passed 9-21-2010; Am. Ord. 4, 2018
Series, passed 6-19-2018)
§ 111.04 DUE DATE; APPLICATION FOR REFUNDS; DELINQUENCY.
   (A)   All license fees imposed by this chapter shall be due no later than 30
days after the end of each calendar quarter.
(KRS 91A.080(8))
   (B)   (1)   Any insurance companies seeking a refund of any overpayment of
license fees collected under this or any related ordinances must apply for any
refund of any overpayment within two years of the date the over payment was
made. No applications for a refund made after the expiration of this two- year
period seeking payment of the license fee will be honored by the city.
      (2)   License fees which are not paid on or before the due date shall
bear interest at the tax interest rate as defined in KRS 131.010(6) from the
date due until paid.
(KRS 91A.080(9))
   (C)   This section shall take effect after its passage, approval, and
publication required by law.
(Prior Code, § 110.23) (Ord. 07, 2007 Series, passed 9-25-2007)
§ 111.05 WRITTEN BREAKDOWN OF COLLECTIONS REQUIRED.
   Every insurance company subject to the license fees imposed by this chapter
shall annually, by March 31, furnish the city with a written breakdown of all
collections in the preceding calendar year for the following categories of
insurance:
   (A)   Casualty;
   (B)   Automobile;
   (C)   Inland marine;
   (D)   Fire and allied perils;
   (E)   Health; and
   (F)   Life.
(KRS 91A.080(8)) (Prior Code, § 110.24)
CHAPTER 112: PROHIBITED COMMERCIAL AND BUSINESS ACTIVITIES
Section
   
112.01   Coal docks, tipples prohibited
   
112.02   Public pool rooms and game rooms prohibited
   
112.03   Pornographic material; distribution prohibited
 
   
112.99    Penalty
§ 112.01 COAL DOCKS, TIPPLES PROHIBITED.
   (A)   The operation of a coal tipple or coal dock for the purpose of loading
and unloading coal is hereby prohibited within the city limits.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to
construct, maintain, or operate a coal dock for the purpose of loading and
unloading coal within the limits of the city.
(Prior Code, § 111.01) (Ord. passed 3-3-1975) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.02 PUBLIC POOL ROOMS AND GAME ROOMS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      GAME ROOM. Any establishment having four or more video games or other
games of amusement.
   (B)   No license shall be issued by the city for the operation of a public
pool room or game room within the corporate limits of the city and the
operation of a public pool room or game room is expressly prohibited.
   (C)   Any licensee now operating a pool or game room within the city under
authority of a license so to do heretofore issued may continue the operation of
his or her establishment until the expiration of the license period, subject
however, to the provisions of Chapter 110 of this code of ordinances, but no
such license shall be renewed.
(Prior Code, § 111.02) (Ord. 1-1985, passed 3-11-1985; Ord. 4-1986, passed 2-
24-1986) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.03 PORNOGRAPHIC MATERIAL; DISTRIBUTION PROHIBITED.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      DISTRIBUTE. To transfer possession of, whether with or without
consideration.
      MATTER. Any book, magazine, newspaper, or other printed or written
material or any picture, drawing, photograph, motion picture, or other
pictorial representation or any statue or other figure, or any recording
transcription or mechanical, chemical or electrical reproduction, or any other
articles, equipment, machines, or materials.
      OBSCENE.
         (a)   To the average person, applying contemporary community
standards, the predominant appeal of the matter, taken as a whole, is to
prurient interest in sexual conduct;
         (b)   The matter depicts or describes the sexual conduct in a patently
offensive way; and
         (c)   The matter, taken as a whole, lacks serious literary, artistic,
political, or scientific value.
   (B)   The operation of any establishment for the sale and distribution of
obscene matter within the corporate limits of the city is expressly prohibited.
   (C)   This section shall take effect from and after its passage, approval,
and publication, as required
(Ord. 08, 2000 Series, passed 7-25-2000) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Whoever violates any provision of §§
112.01 or
112.02 shall be fined not more than $500.
(Prior Code, § 112.99)
   (C)   Whoever violates §
112.03 shall be fined not more than $500.
(Ord. 08, 2000 Series, passed 7-25-2000)
CHAPTER 113: PEDDLERS, ITINERANT MERCHANTS, AND SOLICITORS
Section
   
113.01   Definitions
   
113.02   License requirement
   
113.03   Application procedure
   
113.04   Standards for issuance
   
113.05   Revocation procedure
   
113.06   Standards for revocation
   
113.07   Appeal procedure
   
113.08   Provision for service of process
   
113.09   Exhibition of identification
   
113.10   License fee to solicit funds
 
   
113.99   Penalty
§ 113.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUSINESS. The business carried on by any person who is an itinerant
merchant, peddler, or solicitor as defined in this section.
   GOODS. Merchandise of any description whatsoever, and includes but is not
restricted to wares and foodstuffs.
   ITINERANT MERCHANT. Any person, whether as owner, agent, or consignee, who
engages in a temporary business of selling goods within the city and who, in
the furtherance of that business, uses any building, structure, vehicle, or any
place within the city.
   PEDDLER.
      (1)   (a)   Any person who travels from place to place by any means
carrying goods for sale, making sales, or making deliveries; or
         (b)   Any person who, without traveling from place to place, sells, or
offers goods for sale from any public place within the city.
      (2)   A person who is a PEDDLER is not an itinerant merchant.
   SOLICITOR. Any person who travels by any means from place to place, taking
or attempting to take orders for sale of goods to be delivered in the future or
for services to be performed in the future. A person who is a SOLICITOR is not
a peddler.
(Prior Code, § 112.01)
§ 113.02 LICENSE REQUIREMENT.
   (A)   Any person who is an itinerant merchant, peddler, or solicitor shall
obtain a license before engaging in that activity within the city.
   (B)   The fee for the license required by this chapter shall be as set from
time to time by the City Council.
   (C)   No license issued under this chapter shall be transferable.
   (D)   All licenses issued under this chapter shall expire 90 days after the
date of issuance thereof.
(Prior Code, § 112.02) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.03 APPLICATION PROCEDURE.
   (A)   All applicants for licenses required by this chapter shall file an
application with the City Clerk. This application shall be signed by the
applicant if an individual, by all partners if a partnership, or by the
president if a corporation. The applicant may be requested to provide
information concerning the following items:
      (1)   The name and address of the applicant;
      (2)   (a)   The name of the individual having management authority or
supervision of the applicant’s business during the time that it is proposed to
be carried on in the city;
         (b)   The local address of the individual;
         (c)   The permanent address of the individual; and
         (d)   The capacity in which the individual will act.
      (3)   The name and address of the person, if any, for whose purpose the
business will be carried on and, if a corporation, the state of incorporation;
      (4)   The time period or periods during which it is proposed to carry on
applicant’s business;
      (5)   (a)   The nature, character, and quality of the goods or services
to be offered for sale or delivered;
         (b)   If goods, their invoice value and whether they are to be sold by
sample as well as from stock; and
         (c)   If goods, where and by whom the goods are manufactured or grown,
and where the goods are at the time of application.
      (6)   The nature of the advertising proposed to be done for the business;
and
      (7)   Whether or not the applicant, the individual identified in division
(A)(2)(a) above, or the person identified in division (A)(3) above has been
convicted of any crime or misdemeanor and, if so, the nature of each offense
and the penalty assessed for each offense.
   (B)   Applicants for peddler or solicitor licenses may be required to
provide further information concerning the following items, in addition to that
requested under division (A) above:
      (1)   A description of the applicant; and
      (2)   A description of any vehicle proposed to be used in the business,
including its registration number, if any.
   (C)   All applicants for licenses required by this chapter shall attach to
their applications the following:
      (1)   If required by the city, copies of all printed advertising proposed
to be used in connection with the applicant’s business; and
      (2)   If required by the city, credentials from the person, if any, for
whom the applicant proposes to do business, authorizing the applicant to act as
the representative.
   (D)   Applicants who propose to handle foodstuffs shall also attach to their
applications, in addition to any attachments required under division (C) above,
a statement from a licensed physician, dated not more than ten days prior to
the date of application, certifying the applicant to be free of contagious or
communicable disease.
(Prior Code, § 112.03) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.04 STANDARDS FOR ISSUANCE.
   (A)   Upon receipt of an application, an investigation of the applicant’s
business reputation and moral character shall be made.
   (B)   The application shall be approved unless the investigation discloses
tangible evidence that the conduct of the applicant’s business would pose a
substantial threat to the public health, safety, morals, or general welfare. In
particular, tangible evidence that the applicant has done or possesses any of
the following will constitute valid reasons for disapproval of an application:
      (1)   Has been convicted of a crime of moral turpitude;
      (2)   Has made willful misstatements in the application;
      (3)   Has committed prior violations of chapters pertaining to itinerant
merchants, peddlers, solicitors, and the like;
      (4)   Has committed prior fraudulent acts;
      (5)   Has a record of continual breaches of solicited contracts; or
      (6)   Has an unsatisfactory moral character.
(Prior Code, § 112.04)
§ 113.05 REVOCATION PROCEDURE.
   Any license or permit granted under this chapter may be revoked by the City
Clerk after notice and hearing, pursuant to the standards in §
113.06. Notice of hearing for revocation shall be given in writing, setting
forth specifically the grounds of the complaint and the time and place of the
hearing. This notice shall be mailed to the licensee at his or her last known
address, at least ten days prior to the date set for the hearing.
(Prior Code, § 112.05)
§ 113.06 STANDARDS FOR REVOCATION.
   A license granted under this chapter may be revoked for any of the following
reasons:
   (A)   Any fraud or misrepresentation contained in the license application;
   (B)   Any fraud, misrepresentation, or false statement made in connection
with the business being conducted under the license;
   (C)   Any violation of this chapter;
   (D)   Conviction of the licensee of any felony, or conviction of the
licensee of any misdemeanor involving moral turpitude; or
   (E)   Conducting the business licensed in an unlawful manner or in such a
way as to constitute a menace to the health, safety, morals, or general welfare
of the public.
(Prior Code, § 112.06)
§ 113.07 APPEAL PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Any person aggrieved by a decision under §§
113.04 or
113.06 shall have the right to appeal to the City Council. The appeal shall be
taken by filing with the Council, within 14 days after notice of the decision
has been mailed to the person’s last known address, a written statement setting
forth the grounds for appeal. The Council shall set the time and place for a
hearing, and notice for the hearing shall be given to the person in the same
manner as provided in §
113.05.
   (B)   The order of the Council after the hearing shall be final.
(Prior Code, § 112.07)
§ 113.08 PROVISION FOR SERVICE OF PROCESS.
   (A)   Requirements of successful applicant.
      (1)   Upon receipt of notice of approval of his or her application, the
applicant shall file with City Clerk an instrument appointing the Clerk as his
or her true and lawful agent with full power and authority to acknowledge
service of process for and on behalf of applicant in respect to any matter
arising under this chapter.
      (2)   Forms for the required statement are available at the Clerk’s
office. Such form or instrument shall contain recitals to the effect that the
applicant consents and agrees that service of any notice or process may be made
upon this agent, and when so made shall be taken and held to be as valid as if
personally served upon the applicant, according to the law of this or any other
state, and that the applicant waives all claim or right of error by reason of
such acknowledgment.
   (B)    Duty of Clerk. Immediately upon service of any process upon the Clerk
under this chapter, the Clerk shall send, by registered mail, a copy of the
process to the licensee at his or her last known address.
(Prior Code, § 112.08)
§ 113.09 EXHIBITION OF IDENTIFICATION.
   (A)   Any license issued to an itinerant merchant under this chapter shall
be posted conspicuously in or at the place named therein. In the event more
than one place within the city shall be used to conduct the business licensed,
separate licenses shall be issued for each place.
   (B)   The City Clerk shall issue a license to each peddler or solicitor
licensed under this chapter. The license shall contain the words “Licensed
Peddler” or “Licensed Solicitor,” the expiration date of the license, and the
number of the license. The license shall be kept with the licensee during the
time that he or she is engaged in the business licensed.
(Prior Code, § 112.09)
§ 113.10 LICENSE FEE TO SOLICIT FUNDS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      PUBLIC SOLICITOR OR SOLICITATION. Any person, group, club, organization,
or other entity which solicits funds or services from the general public any
place within the city.
   (B)   Any public solicitor shall obtain a license before engaging in such
activity within the city.
   (C)   The fee for such license is $5. Such license is not transferable and
expires 30 days after the date of issuance thereof. The license for public
solicitation shall further be subject to the provisions of this chapter.
   (D)   This section shall take effect from and after its passage, approval,
and publication, as required.
(Ord. 07, 2000 Series, passed 7-27-2000)
§ 113.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and shall be fined not more than $500. Each day’s violation shall
constitute a separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 112.99)
CHAPTER 114: ADVERTISING
Section
   
114.01   Definitions
   
114.02   Compliance with chapter required
   
114.03   Scattering, littering prohibited
   
114.04   Posting on trees, poles, or buildings
   
114.05   Placing posters on vehicles
   
114.06   Crying aloud; carrying banners or signs
 
   
114.99   Penalty
§ 114.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADVERTISING MATTER. Any written or printed card, circular, coupon, pamphlet,
or folder intended for general distribution, except newspapers.
   SAMPLE. Any package or parcel of merchandise intended for general
distribution, and for which no charge is made.
(Prior Code, § 113.01)
§ 114.02 COMPLIANCE WITH CHAPTER REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to distribute any advertising matter,
circular, or sample in the city, except as provided in this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 113.02) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.03 SCATTERING, LITTERING PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person shall throw, scatter, or distribute, or cause to be thrown,
scattered, distributed, or placed, any poster, sign, card, pamphlet, sample of
merchandise, or other advertising device upon any sidewalk, street, lane,
alley, public ground, or other public place, or upon any private lot or steps,
or
throw into or upon or attach to any vehicle any advertising matter or sample
within the corporate limits of the city; provided, that it shall not be
unlawful to distribute such advertising matter or samples to private
residences, offices, or mercantile establishments, if the same is handed in at
the door, or placed on a porch, or securely fastened to prevent it from being
blown or scattered about.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person when removing any old poster,
card, or other advertising device to leave or deposit the same upon any public
or private sidewalk, street, alley, lot, or ground within the corporate limits
of the city.
(Prior Code, § 113.03) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.04 POSTING ON TREES, POLES, OR BUILDINGS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to post, paste, or in any way
attach or affix any bill, notice, announcement, or other advertisement to any
tree located in any alley, street, or other public place in the city, or upon
or to any pole used for telegraph, telephone, electric light, fire alarm, or
any other purpose as authorized by the City Council; provided, that the
provisions of this section shall not apply to the posting of any notice or
order of any court nor to the posting of any legal notice required or
authorized by law.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to paste, paint, place, or fasten
in any manner, any poster, sign, card, sample package, or other advertising
matter or device onto any public sidewalk, curb, or pavement, or onto any
public building or other public improvement within the city.
(Prior Code, § 113.04) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.05 PLACING POSTERS ON VEHICLES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to place or deposit or in any manner to
affix or cause to be placed or deposited or affixed to any automobile or other
vehicle or other automotive vehicle, any handbill, sign, poster, advertisement,
or notice of any kind whatsoever, unless he or she is the owner thereof, or
without first having secured in writing the consent of the owner thereof.
(Prior Code, § 113.05) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.06 CRYING ALOUD; CARRYING BANNERS OR SIGNS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to cry aloud upon the streets or in the
doorways of any place of business along the street advertising any commercial
business whatever, or carry or have carried along and over the streets of the
city, any signs, banners, or displays of any kind or description intended to
advertise any commercial business.
(Prior Code, § 113.06) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter shall be fined not more than
$500.
(Prior Code, § 113.99)
CHAPTER 115: PAWNBROKERS
Section
   
115.01   Definition
   
115.02   Bond
   
115.03   Register to be kept; daily reports
   
115.04   Receipt to be given for each article; sale of article
   
115.05   Maximum interest, resale price
   
115.06   Receipt to be given for payment of loan
   
115.07   Prohibited activities
   
115.08   Enforcement
 
   
115.99   Penalty
§ 115.01 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definition shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PAWNBROKER. Any person who loans money on deposit of personal property;
deals in the purchase of personal property on condition of selling the property
back again at a stipulated price; makes a public display at his or her place of
business of the sign generally used by PAWNBROKERS to denote their business; or
who publicly exhibits a sign advertising money to loan on personal property or
deposit.
(KRS 226.010) (Prior Code, § 114.01)
§ 115.02 BOND.
   Every person to whom a city license is granted to carry on the business of a
pawnbroker shall annually enter into bond to the city, with good and sufficient
surety to be approved by City Council, in the penal sum of $1,000. This bond
shall be conditioned that he or she will observe the provisions of this chapter
and all ordinances and laws in force in the city not inconsistent with this
chapter.
(KRS 226.020) (Prior Code, § 114.02)
§ 115.03 REGISTER TO BE KEPT; DAILY REPORTS.
   (A)   Every pawnbroker shall keep a register of all loans and purchases of
all articles by the pawnbroker from the general public. The register shall:
      (1)   Be reported to an online, internet-based transaction recording
service accessible to law enforcement agencies;
      (2)   Show the dates and the amounts of all loans or purchases by the
pawnbroker from the general public, and the names of all persons who have left
any property that has been pawned or sold, and:
         (a)   A driver’s license number;
         (b)   Another state or federally issued picture identification card
number; or
         (c)   If the identification specified in divisions (A)(2)(a) and (A)
(2)(b) is not available, a social security number may be accepted;
      (3)   At all times be available to the inspection of any law enforcement
officer of this state when in the discharge of his or her official duty; and
      (4)   Contain a full description of all property purchased by the
pawnbroker from the general public or received on deposit as collateral or
security. When requested by law enforcement and pertaining to an investigation,
a photograph of the merchandise shall be made available to law enforcement if
the property is still in the possession of the pawnbroker. For purposes of this
division FULL DESCRIPTION includes, but is not limited to:
         (a)   Make;
         (b)   Model;
         (c)   Color;
         (d)   Size;
         (e)   Manufacturer;
         (f)   Vintage; and
         (g)   Distinguishing marks or characteristics.
   (B)   When secondhand merchandise is sold to a pawnbroker, the merchandise
shall be held for a minimum of 12 days before being resold.
   (C)   Prior to the release of property to a representative of law
enforcement, the law enforcement representative shall provide to the pawnbroker
a case report or other documentation that the item has been reported as stolen.
(KRS 226.040)
   (D)   Every pawnbroker shall, by 11:00 a.m. each day, furnish to the Chief
of Police a true and correct written report of all good’s secured by him or
her, whether by pawn or by purchase, during the 24 hours preceding each report.
This report shall describe the goods as accurately as practicable. (The reports
shall be submitted electronically to l.e.a.d.s. online. Inc. via high speed
internet.) The Chief of Police shall furnish blanks for these reports.
(Prior Code, § 114.03) (Ord. 7 of 2012 Series, passed 6-19-2012) Penalty, see §
115.99
Statutory reference:
   Daily reports in cities and unincorporated areas, see KRS 226.070
§ 115.04 RECEIPT TO BE GIVEN FOR EACH ARTICLE; SALE OF ARTICLE.
   (A)   Every pawnbroker shall give a plain written or printed ticket for the
loan to the person negotiating or selling, and a plain written or printed
receipt of the articles that have been purchased or upon which money is loaned,
having on each a copy of the entries required by §
115.03(A) to be kept in his or her register. He or she shall not make any
charge for the ticket or receipt.
   (B)   A pawnbroker may sell any article pawned after the expiration of 60
days from the maturity of the loan. However, not less than ten days before
making the sale, the pawnbroker shall give notice to the person by whom the
article was pawned, by mail addressed to the post office address of that person
as shown on the pawnbroker’s register, notifying the person that, unless he or
she redeems the article within ten days from the date of mailing of the notice,
the article will be sold.
(KRS 226.050) (Prior Code, § 114.04) Penalty, see §
115.99
§ 115.05 MAXIMUM INTEREST, RESALE PRICE.
   Any pawnbroker, as defined in §
115.01, may, in loaning money on deposit of personal property, charge, contract
for, or receive interest at a rate not exceeding 2% per month on the unpaid
principal balance of the loan, and may charge, contract for, and receive a
reasonable fee, not to exceed one-fifth of the value of the loan per month, for
investigating the title, storing, and insuring the property, closing the loan,
making daily reports to local law enforcement officers, and for other expenses,
losses, and incidental costs associated with servicing these loans. Further,
this fee, when made and collected, shall not be deemed as interest for any
purpose of law. No pawnbroker shall directly or indirectly charge, receive, or
contract for any interest or consideration greater than that allowed by this
section.
(KRS 226.080) (Prior Code, § 114.05) Penalty, see §
115.99
§ 115.06 RECEIPT TO BE GIVEN FOR PAYMENT OF LOAN.
   (A)   Every pawnbroker, upon receiving any payment of money from a borrower,
shall give to that person a plain and complete receipt for the payment,
specifying separately the amount applied to principal and the amount applied to
interest.
   (B)   In a case where the pawnbroker has purchased personal property under
an agreement to sell it back at a stipulated price, the pawnbroker shall, on
receiving any payment of money from the person from whom the property was
purchased, give that person a receipt stating the original purchase price, the
stipulated resale price, and the amount received.
(KRS 226.090) (Prior Code, § 114.06) Penalty, see §
115.99
§ 115.07 PROHIBITED ACTIVITIES.
   No pawnbroker shall receive, by way of either pledge or pawn, any article
whatever from a minor at any time, nor from any person between 8:00 p.m. and 7:
00 a.m.
(KRS 226.030) (Prior Code, § 114.07) Penalty, see §
115.99
§ 115.08 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   The Police Department shall enforce the provisions of this chapter
unless otherwise provided by KRS 226.100.
   (B)   However, county police, for the purpose of locating stolen goods, may
carry out the provisions of KRS 226.060 within the city.
(KRS 226.100) (Prior Code, § 114.08) Penalty, see §
115.99
§ 115.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any pawnbroker or pawnbroker’s clerk who violates any of the
provisions of this chapter for which no penalty is otherwise provided shall,
upon conviction, be guilty of a misdemeanor, shall be fined not less than $50
nor more than $500, and his or her license may be forfeited to the city.
(KRS 226.990(1))
   (B)   Any pawnbroker who violates any of the provisions of §
115.03(B) shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be fined not less than $20
nor more than $100.
(KRS 226.990(3))
(Prior Code, § 114.99)
CHAPTER 116: ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
Section
General Provisions
   
116.01   Short title
   
116.02   Definitions
   
116.03   Scope
   
116.04   Adoption of state alcoholic beverage control law
   
116.05   City Alcoholic Beverage Control Administrator- appointment; salary
Licenses
   
116.20   Licenses
   
116.21   Regulatory license fee
   
116.22   Application
   
116.23   Investigation of applicants
   
116.24   Persons who may not be licensed
   
116.25   Refusal of license
   
116.26   Hearing
   
116.27   Issuance of city license
   
116.28   Form of licenses
   
116.29   Posting of licenses
   
116.30   Payment of license fees
   
116.31   Expiration date; date fees due; fractional fees
   
116.32   Revocation or suspension
   
116.33   Notice to licensee; surrender of license; stock; hearing
   
116.34   Transfer or assignment
   
116.35   Change of information
   
116.36   Dormancy
Premises
   
116.50   Approval of premises
   
116.51   Premises that may not be licensed
   
116.52   Application of zoning regulations
   
116.53   Disorderly premise
   
116.54   Delinquent taxes
   
116.55   Books, records and reports
   
116.56   Enforcement
   
116.57   Hours for the sale and delivery
   
116.58   Locked or closed off department
   
116.59   Conditions, prohibitions and restrictions
   
116.60   Employee prohibitions
 
   
116.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 116.01 SHORT TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the “Alcoholic Beverage
Control Ordinance” of the city.
(Ord. 3, 2021, passed 2-25-2021)
§ 116.02 DEFINITIONS.
   Words used throughout this chapter, unless the context requires otherwise,
shall have the same definitions as set out in the Kentucky Alcoholic Beverage
Control Laws (Chapters 241, 242, 243 and 244 of Kentucky Revised Statutes) of
the Commonwealth of Kentucky, and all amendments and supplements thereto.
(Ord. 3, 2021, passed 2-25-2021)
§ 116.03 SCOPE.
   (A)   The purpose of this chapter is to establish regulation for the
licensing and sale of alcoholic beverages within the city pursuant to the
authorization set out in KRS Chapters 241 through 244 and other applicable
laws.
   (B)   Irrespective of title or headings, the sections. of this chapter shall
be construed to apply to the traffic in both malt beverages and distilled
spirits and wine where the context permits such application.
   (C)   Nothing in this chapter shall excuse or relieve a licensee or the
agent or employee of any licensee located within the city, from the
restrictions, requirements and penalties of any other ordinance of the city or
any statute of the Commonwealth of Kentucky relating to violations pertaining
to alcoholic beverages. No regulation of the city shall become effective until
it has first been approved by the City Council, and no such regulation shall be
less stringent than the applicable statute or regulation of the ABC Board.
(Ord. 3, 2021, passed 2-25-2021)
§ 116.04 ADOPTION OF STATE ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE CONTROL LAW.
   The provisions of the Alcoholic Beverage Control Laws of the Commonwealth of
Kentucky (KRS Chapters 241, 242, 243 and 244) and all amendments and
supplements thereto, are adopted so far as applicable to this chapter, except
as otherwise lawfully provided herein.
(Ord. 3, 2021, passed 2-25-2021)
§ 116.05 CITY ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE CONTROL ADMINISTRATOR- APPOINTMENT; SALARY.
   (A)   The Mayor shall, consistent with the provisions of KRS 83A130(9) and
KRS 241.170, appoint a City Alcoholic Beverage Control Administrator (City
Administrator) subject to approval of the City Council.
   (B)   The salary for said office shall be fixed from time to time by the
City Council
   (C)   The functions of the City Administrator shall be the same with respect
to city licenses and regulations, as the functions of the Alcoholic Beverage
Control Board of the Commonwealth of Kentucky (“ABC Board”) with respect to
state licenses and regulations.
(Ord. 3, 2021, passed 2-25-2021)
LICENSES
§ 116.20 LICENSES.
   (A)   For the privilege of engaging in the sale of alcoholic beverages
within the city pursuant to the authority set out in KRS 243.070 and other
applicable section of Chapter 243, relevant to sale in cities establishing a
corresponding licenses for each of the state licenses permitted in cities.
   (B)   Pursuant to the provisions of KRS 243.070, 243.030 and 243.040 the
city annual license fees shall be the maximum permitted by statute.
   (C)   In order to engage in sale or trafficking of alcoholic beverages in
the city, a party must be a license holder of one or a combination of the
licenses required hereunder.
   (D)   The following licenses with stated fees are hereby established:
      (1)   Quota retail package license, per annum: $1,000.
      (2)   Quota retail drink license, per annum: $1,000.
      (3)   Special temporary license, per annum: $166.66.
      (4)   Non-quota type one retail drink license, per annum: $2,000.
      (5)   Non-quota type two retail drink license, per annum: $1,000.
      (6)   Non-quota type three retail drink license, per annum: $300.
      (7)   Special Sunday retail drink license, per annum: $300.
      (8)   Non-quota retail malt beverage package license, per annum: $200.
      (9)   Non-quota type four retail malt beverage drink license, per annum:
$200.
      (10)   Limited restaurant license, per annum: $1,200.
      (11)   Qualified historic site license, per annum: $1,030.
      (12)   Quota retail distilled spirits and wine package license: $570.
      (13)   Caterer’s license, per annum: $820.
   (E)   Entertainment.
      (1)   Any licensee under this section desiring to provide entertainment
to patrons of such licensed premise must first obtain a separate entertainment
license by application to the City Administrator under this section in the form
approved by the Mayor or her/his designee.
         (a)   Term of such license shall be concurrent with the retail drink
license.
         (b)   Fee for such license shall be $100.
         (c)   This license shall be subject to the same sanctions as the
retail rink license.
      (2)   The purpose of this section is to provide the city review of the
type of such entertainment to promote the public health, safety, morals and
welfare, and such licenses will not be unreasonably withheld, but periodic
review will occur to protect those interests of the community set out herein.
(Ord. 3, 2021, passed 2-25-2021)
§ 116.21 REGULATORY LICENSE FEE.
   The city pursuant to the provisions of KRS 243.075 is authorized and shall
impose a regulatory license fee not to exceed 3% upon the gross receipts of the
sale of alcohol beverages of each establishment located in the city licensed to
sell alcoholic beverages.
   (A)   The regulatory license fee may be levied at the beginning of each
budget period at a percentage rate that is reasonably estimated to fully
reimburse the city for the estimated costs of additional policing, regulatory,
or administrative expenses related to the sale of alcoholic beverages in the
city. The regulatory license fee shall be in addition to any other taxes, fees
or licenses permitted by law, but a credit against such fee shall be allowed in
an amount equal to the license or fee imposed hereunder and such regulatory fee
shall be applied annually from July 1 to June 30.
   (B)   Payment of such fee shall accompany the tax returns approved for such
use by the Mayor or his designee and shall be submitted to the City
Administrator by the 20th day of each month for the preceding month's sales
one-twelfth of the fee required under §
116.31 shall be deducted each month as credit.
   (C)   Failure to pay such monthly remittance within ten days of the due date
shall constitute a violation and subject the offending licensee to suspension
or revocation.
   (D)   Penalty for the failure to file a return and/or to pay monthly
remittance by its due date is 5% of the tax owed for each 30 days or fraction
thereof. The total late filing penalty shall not exceed 25% of the tax,
provided, however, that in no case shall the penalty be less than $10.
   (E)   Interest at the rate of 8% per annum shall be applied to any late
payments.
(Ord. 3, 2021, passed 2-25-2021; Ord. 8, 2021, passed 6-28-2021; Ord. 11, 2022,
passed 6-23-2022; Ord. 5, 2023, passed 6-13-2023; Ord. 8, 2024, passed 5-22-
2024; Ord. 8, 2025, passed 6-30-2025)
§ 116.22 APPLICATION.
   (A)   (1)   Any applicant shall have the notice of intention to apply for a
license to sell alcoholic beverage placed in a newspaper meeting the
requirements of KRS Chapter 424.
      (2)   The advertisement shall state the name and addresses of the members
of the partnership if the applicant is a partnership, as well as the name of
the business and its address, or, if the applicant is a corporation, the names
and addresses of the principal officers and directors of the corporation, as
well as the name and addresses of the corporation itself, the location of the
premises for which the license is sought, and the type of license to be applied
for.
      (3)   The applicant shall attach to the application a newspaper clipping
of the advertisement and proof of the publication as provided in KRS 424.170.
   (B)   (1)   All licenses granted under this chapter must be approved by the
City Administrator. Applications for the issuance of new licenses and for
renewals of existing licenses shall be in writing and upon the forms provided
by the State ABC Department and/or the City Administrator as amended and
supplemented from time to time.
      (2)   The application shall be verified and shall set forth in detail
such information concerning the applicant and the premises for which the
license is sought as state statute and ABC Board by regulation requires. The
city application shall be in such form as designated by the City Administrator.
Each application shall be accompanied by a certified check, cash or a postal or
express money order for the license fee. Promptly upon receipt thereof the City
Administrator shall pay the same to the City Treasurer. The furnishing of false
information on an application hereunder shall constitute cause for denial or
revocation of a license.
(Ord. 3, 2021, passed 2-25-2021)
§ 116.23 INVESTIGATION OF APPLICANTS.
   (A)   Applications made pursuant to KRS 243.380 and KRS 243.390 shall first
be submitted to the City Administrator for review and action prior to
submission to the state. Applications shall be fully compliant with cited
statutes including all supportive documentation and fees submitted therewith.
   (B)   Should the City Administrator at any time have reasonable grounds to
believe that any employee of a licensee, or any stockholder, agent or employee
of a licensed corporation, has a criminal record, he/she shall have the
authority to require such person to appear in person, with satisfactory photo
identification (military identification card, passport, driver’s license) at
the police department of the city for the purpose of having his or her
fingerprints taken.
   (C)   No license application will be approved for any person, firm or
corporation who is delinquent in payment of accounts with the city, including
but not limited to property taxes, water bills, business privilege and net
profit fees, occupational taxes, and outstanding loan payments to any city
entity.
   (D)   The city may require such additional information regarding the
applicant as it deems appropriate, considering the nature of the business,
including review of past payment history, credit information and criminal
record, and may conduct an appropriate investigation regarding the information
provided by an applicant to assist the City Administrator in his/her review
thereof.
(Ord. 3, 2021, passed 2-25-2021)
§ 116.24 PERSONS WHO MAY NOT BE LICENSED.
   No person shall become a licensee who for reasons or causes set out in KRS
243.100.
(Ord. 3, 2021, passed 2-25-2021)
§ 116.25 REFUSAL OF LICENSE.
   A city license shall be refused or causes set out in KRS 243.450.
(Ord. 3, 2021, passed 2-25-2021)
§ 116.26 HEARING.
   (A)   Should the applicant or licensee request the City Administrator to
hold a hearing, the procedures shall generally follow the Kentucky Rules of
Civil Procedure.
   (B)   Appearances. Any applicant or licensee may appear and be heard in
person, or by or with duly appointed attorney, and may produce under oath
evidence relative and material to matters before the Board.
   (C)   Decisions. All decisions made by the City Administrator resulting from
such hearing shall be reduced to writing and shall be based upon the evidence
developed at the hearing, and applicable law.
(Ord. 3, 2021, passed 2-25-2021)
§ 116.27 ISSUANCE OF CITY LICENSE.
   The City Administrator shall transmit fees upon collection to the City
Treasurer. City licenses shall be issued by the City Administrator upon receipt
of notice from the ABC Board Administrator of the finality of appeal or protest
permitted upon such license pursuant to the provisions of KRS 241.200, 243.360
et seq.
(Ord. 3, 2021, passed 2-25-2021)
§ 116.28 FORM OF LICENSES.
   (A)   All city licenses shall be in such form as may be prescribed by the
Mayor or his designee and shall contain:
      (1)   The name and address of the licensee;
      (2)   The number of the license;
      (3)   The type of the license;
      (4)   A description by street and number, or otherwise, of the licensed
premises;
      (5)   The expiration date of the license; and
      (6)   A statement in substance that the license shall not be a property
or vested right and that it may be revoked at any time pursuant to law.
   (B)   Each kind of license shall be printed so as to be readily
distinguishable from the other types of license.
(Ord. 3, 2021, passed 2-25-2021)
§ 116.29 POSTING OF LICENSES.
   Before commencing or doing any business for the time for which a license has
been issued, the license shall be posted at all times and displayed in a
conspicuous place pursuant to the provisions of KRS 243.620.
(Ord. 3, 2021, passed 2-25-2021)
§ 116.30 PAYMENT OF LICENSE FEES.
   The annual license fee and/or regulatory tax for every license issued under
this chapter shall be payable by the person making application for such license
and/or licensee, and no other person, firm or corporation shall pay for any
license issued under this chapter.
(Ord. 3, 2021, passed 2-25-2021)
§ 116.31 EXPIRATION DATE; DATE FEES DUE; FRACTIONAL FEES.
   (A)   All city licenses shall expire on June 30 of each year. The renewal by
the City Administrator of the license shall not be construed to be a waiver or
condonement of any violation which occurred prior to such renewal and shall not
prevent subsequent proceedings against the license therefore.
   (B)   Application for a license made after July 1 of any year, shall result
in a charge, if the license is issued, of an amount equal to one-twelfth of the
annual license fee for each calendar month or part thereof, including the month
in which the license is granted, until the following July 1, except that no
license issued shall be charged for a shorter period than six months. No
abatement of license fees shall be permitted to any person who held a license
of the same kind for the same premises in the preceding license period and who
was actually doing business under the license during the last month of the
preceding license period.
   (C)   All renewal of licenses must be on file with the City Administrator
within 30 days after the expiration of the licenses for the preceding license
period or the same shall be canceled, except where the licensee is unable to
continue in business at the same premises licensed during the preceeding
license period due to construction, an act of God, casualty, death, the
acquisition or threatened acquistion of these premises by any federal, state,
city or other governmental agency or private corporation, possessing power of
eminent domain, whether such acquisitions voluntary or involuntary, or loss of
lease through failure of landlord to renew existing lease; that said licensee
shall file a written verified statement no less than 20 days from the
expiration date of the license, setting forth these facts, and the City
Administrator is hereby authorized to extend the time for fling of a renewal of
such license for a reasonable length of time within the sound discretion of the
City Administrator; provided, however, such licensee shall pay a license fee
from the expiration date of the former license or licenses. Said license fee
shall not be payable until application is made for the transfer of said license
to a new location.
(Ord. 3, 2021, passed 2-25-2021)
§ 116.32 REVOCATION OR SUSPENSION.
   Any license may be revoked or suspended by the City Administrator for causes
set out in KRS 243.500.
(Ord. 3, 2021, passed 2-25-2021)
§ 116.33 NOTICE TO LICENSEE; SURRENDER OF LICENSE; STOCK; HEARING.
   (A)   The City Administrator shall furnish to licensee a copy of this
chapter at the time the city license is issued and a receipt for same shall be
executed by the licensee. Any changes or amendments to same shall be forwarded
to licensee at address on the license. Failure to receive or review such
changes or amendments or review the chapter shall not be an excuse or
justification for any violation or prevent, remit or decrease any penalty for a
violation.
   (B)   All restrictions and prohibitions relating to retail package and drink
licenses under this chapter and KRS Chapter 241, 242, 243, 244 and rules and
regulations promulgated by the ABC Board shall have application to the club
licenses.
   (C)   Within three days after any order of revocation of a license becomes
final, notice of revocation shall be given to the licensee and to the owner of
the licensed premises. A notice mailed to the licensee and to the owner of the
licensed premises at the address shown in the last application for a license or
in the last statement supplemental to the application shall be deemed
sufficient compliance with this section. The licensee shall at once surrender
his license to the City Administrator. If the revoked license is not forthwith
surrendered by the licensee, the Chief of the Police at the request of the City
Administrator shall immediately cause one of his officers to take physical
possession of the license and return it to the City Administrator.
   (D)   When a license has been revoked the former licensee may, with prior
approval of the City Administrator dispose of and transfer his stock of
alcoholic beverages to a licensee, but such a disposition of stock on hand
shall not be delayed longer than 90 days in the case of wholesalers or
distributors nor longer than 20 days in the case of retailers.
   (E)   Hearings conducted by the City Administrator relating to suspension or
revocation shall be conducted in the manner prescribed herein. Notice of such
hearing shall be mailed to licensee at the address on his application by pre-
paid certified mail return receipt requested. Notice shall set the time and
place for such hearing and contain charges of violations.
   (F)   Appeal from the decision of the City Administrator shall be to the ABC
Board.
   (G)   If a license is revoked or suspended by an order of the City
Administrator, the licensee shall at once suspend all operations authorized
under his license.
(Ord. 3, 2021, passed 2-25-2021)
§ 116.34 TRANSFER OR ASSIGNMENT.
   No license issued under this chapter shall be transferred or assigned either
as to licensee or location except with prior approval of the City Administrator
and shall be in compliance with the provisions set out in KRS 243.630.
(Ord. 3, 2021, passed 2-25-2021)
§ 116.35 CHANGE OF INFORMATION.
   (A)   Since a license may be issued in the name of a corporation or limited
liability company, it is necessary that ownership changes in such corporation/
LLC be reported to the City Administrator. The City Administrator can
therefore, investigate the person to whom the interest is transferred in order
to ascertain whether that person is precluded by statute from holding an
interest in an alcoholic beverage license.
   (B)   As used herein, the word "change" is construed to include any change
in directors or officers of the corporation/LLC, or a change in ownership
interest therein. Transfer of more than 10% of the total interest shall require
a new license.
   (C)   (1)   The following information will be required concerning any new
director, officer, or person who secures any interest in an alcoholic beverage
license:
         (a)   Name and address;
         (b)   Nature of interest;
         (c)   Whether or not a citizen of the United States;
         (d)   Date of birth;
         (e)   Date residence was established in Kentucky, if a resident of
Kentucky. If city resident, indicate when residence established;
         (f)   Whether or not he has any interest in any other license or
corporation holding a license under this act; and
         (g)   Extent of stock ownership.
   (2)   This information shall be filed with the City Administrator as an
amendment of the application pursuant to which the license was granted, and
shall be provided to the City Administrator within 30 days of the effective
date of the reflected change.
(Ord. 3, 2021, passed 2-25-2021)
§ 116.36 DORMANCY.
   (A)   When no business is transacted under a license for a period of 90
days, the license shall become null and void. At the expiration of the 90 day
period the license shall be surrendered to the City Administrator.
   (B)   Except that the provisions of division (A) hereof shall not apply to
any licensee who is unable to continue in business at the premises for which a
license is issued due to construction, an act of God, casualty, death, the
acquisition of the premises by any federal, state, city or other governmental
agency under power of eminent domain, acquisition is voluntary or involuntary,
or loss of lease through failure of landlord to renew existing lease. Such
licensee shall furnish to the City Administrator a verified statement setting
forth the fact that the licensee is unable to continue in business prior to the
expiration of the 90 days of inactivity, for any of the reasons set forth
herein, and the City Administrator may grant an extensions of the dormancy with
the license continuing to remain in effect during the license period or until
same is transferred to another premises, notwithstanding the fact that no
business is transacted during said period; provided, however, no such license
shall be considered valid unless business is conducted there under within 12
months from the date of notice to the City Administrator. Such extension may
not extend beyond the renewal date but may be for such times as the City
Administrator deems appropriate in exercise of his sound discretion.
(Ord. 3, 2021, passed 2-25-2021)
PREMISES
§ 116.50 APPROVAL OF PREMISES.
   The City Administrator shall not grant any alcoholic beverage license or
approve a renewal of a license until said applicant and his place of business
shall have been approved by the County Health Department, City Building
Inspector, city and/or state Fire Marshal and all other inspections required by
the Kentucky Building Code.
(Ord. 3, 2021, passed 2-25-2021)
§ 116.51 PREMISES THAT MAY NOT BE LICENSED.
   No license for the sale of alcoholic beverages shall be issued for any
premises unless the applicant for the license is the owner of the premises or
is in possession of the premises by a written lease for a term of not less than
the license period.
(Ord. 3, 2021, passed 2-25-2021)
§ 116.52 APPLICATION OF ZONING REGULATIONS.
   (A)   For the purpose of regulating the location of retail package or retail
drink licenses in the city the various zones or districts as fixed and
established by the city zoning ordinance, as the same may from time to time be
amended, are hereby adopted as part of this chapter.
   (B)   No license shall be issued to any person, firm or corporation for
selling any alcoholic beverages at any premises or location where such business
is prohibited under the zoning ordinances or any other ordinance of the city.
Any license issued in violation in this division shall be void.
(Ord. 3, 2021, passed 2-25-2021)
§ 116.53 DISORDERLY PREMISE.
   No person licensed to sell alcoholic beverages shall cause, suffer, or
permit the licensed premises to become disorderly. Acts which constitute
disorderly premises are set out in KRS 244.120.
(Ord. 3, 2021, passed 2-25-2021)
§ 116.54 DELINQUENT TAXES.
   No license to sell alcoholic beverages shall be granted to any person, firm,
or corporation who or which is delinquent in the payment of any taxes due to
the city at the time of issuing said license; nor shall any license be granted
to sell upon any premises or property, owned and/or occupied by the licensee,
upon which are any delinquent taxes due to the city whether owed by the
licensee or other third party.
(Ord. 3, 2021, passed 2-25-2021)
§ 116.55 BOOKS, RECORDS AND REPORTS.
   (A)   Every licensee under this chapter shall keep and maintain upon the
licensed premises adequate books and records of all transactions involved in
the sale of alcoholic beverages in the same manner required by the rules and
regulations of the ABC Board. Such books and records shall be available at all
reasonable times for inspection by the City Administrator and such city
employees or agents who may assist the City Administrator in his/her review.
   (B)   For the purpose of assisting the City Administrator in enforcement of
this chapter, every licensee required to report to the Revenue Cabinet under
KRS 243.850 shall provide a copy of such report to the City Administrator.
Copies of any and all reports and correspondences to the ABC Board required by
statute shall be furnished to the City Administrator.
(Ord. 3, 2021, passed 2-25-2021)
§ 116.56 ENFORCEMENT.
   The City Administrator shall have concurrent jurisdiction with the city
police officers, state Alcoholic Beverage Control Administrators and field
representatives to enforce the provisions of this chapter and KRS Chapters 241,
242, 243, 244 and applicable KARs.
(Ord. 3, 2021, passed 2-25-2021)
§ 116.57 HOURS FOR THE SALE AND DELIVERY.
   (A)   Restaurant/by the drink and malt beverage licensed premises may remain
open for business daily from 9:00 a.m. until 2:00 a.m. prevailing time, Monday
through Saturday and shall have their “last call for drinks” at 1:30 a.m.,
except that no sale of alcoholic beverages may be made from 2:00 a.m. on Sunday
until 1:00 p.m. on Sunday or when prohibited by state statute. Sunday operating
hours shall be from 1:00 p.m. to 1:00 a.m. on Monday and, shall have their
“last call for drinks” at 12:30 a.m. on Monday. Licensed premises may be open
outside of the hours stated herein so long as the licensee secures the
alcoholic beverages in a locked manner denying access to customers.
   (B)   Premises licensed permitting the package sale at retail may operate
for business daily from 9:00 a.m. until midnight, prevailing time, Monday
through Saturday from 1:00 p.m. to 11:00 p.m. on Sunday.
   (C)   All deliveries of alcoholic beverages in the city shall be made
between the hours of 6:00 a.m. and midnight. No deliveries shall occur on
Sunday.
(Ord. 3, 2021, passed 2-25-2021)
§ 116.58 LOCKED OR CLOSED OFF DEPARTMENT.
   (A)   If a licensee provides on his/her licensed premises a separate
document in which is kept all stocks of alcoholic beverages and all apparatus
connected with the sale of alcoholic beverages, and said department is kept
locked during the period in which the sale of alcoholic beverages is not
permitted, he/she shall be deemed to have complied with this chapter.
   (B)   If any distilled spirits or malt beverages are found on the outside of
a locked or closed off department of any licensed premises to sell distilled
spirits, wine or malt beverages at retail at any hours during which the
licensee is prohibited by the Kentucky Revised Statutes or by this chapter from
selling said distilled spirits, wine or malt beverages, a prima facie
presumption shall arise that such distilled spirits, wine or malt beverages
were kept on the outside of the locked or closed off department for the purpose
of sale in violation of this chapter and/or Kentucky Revised Statute and shall
be grounds for revocation or suspension of the license, and in addition to
other penalties provided for violation of this section the City Administrator
or the City Police Department shall be and are hereby authorized to confiscate
such distilled spirits, wine or malt beverages.
(Ord. 3, 2021, passed 2-25-2021)
§ 116.59 CONDITIONS, PROHIBITIONS AND RESTRICTIONS.
   All licenses granted under this chapter shall be subject to the following
conditions, prohibitions and/or restrictions and all other provisions of KRS
Chapters 241, 242, 243 and 244, other ordinances and regulations of the city
applicable thereto:
   (A)   No gambling or game of chance shall be permitted in any form on such
licensed premises. Dice, slot machines, or any device of chance is prohibited
and shall not be kept on such premises.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any licensee under this chapter to permit the
sale, use and/or storage of controlled substances defined in KRS Chapters
218A.050, 218A.070, 218A.090, 218A.110 and 218A.130 with the exception of
possession of properly prescribed medications upon the licensed premises. It
shall be unlawful for any licensee, except licensed drug stores, to keep or
sell or permit to be sold or used on the licensed premises any narcotic or
barbiturate drugs. In addition to other penalties set out in this chapter for
the violation of this section, the City Administrator shall also have the
authority to revoke the license issued to said premises.
   (C)   The licensee shall be responsible for maintaining security on his
premises including providing adequate outside lighting to permit customers to
utilize the parking area and to promote the safety, health and welfare of the
general public utilizing the licensed premise. Security standards are further
necessary to discourage unlawful activity in and around the licensed premises.
   (D)   No licensee or agent or employee of a licensee shall permit any person
to become drunk or intoxicated on the premises, nor shall any licensee permit
any drunk or intoxicated person to remain on the licensed premises.
   (E)   No licensee or agent or employee shall permit any person or persons,
other than employees of the licensee, to open any bottle of distilled spirits;
wine or malt beverages, and no container of distilled spirits, wine or malt
beverage shall be opened nor its contents consumed on the licensed premises
unless the licensee holds a retail drink license.
   (F)   As used in this section: "premises" means the place of business of a
person licensed to sell alcoholic beverages including, in the case of drive-in
establishments, the entire lot upon which the business establishment is
situated.
   (G)   No person under 21 years of age shall enter any premises licensed for
the sale of alcoholic beverages for the purpose of purchasing or receiving any
alcoholic beverages.
   (H)   No person under 21 years of age shall possess for his or her own use
or purchase or attempt to purchase or have another purchase for him or her any
alcoholic beverages. No person shall aid or assist any person under 2l years of
age in purchasing or having delivered or served to him or her any alcoholic
beverages.
   (I)   No person under 21 years of age shall misrepresent his or her age for
the purpose of inducing any licensee, or other employee of any licensee, to
sell or serve any alcoholic beverages to such person.
   (J)   No person under 21 years of age shall use or attempt to use any false,
fraudulent, or altered identification card or paper or any document to purchase
or attempt to purchase or otherwise obtain any alcoholic beverage.
   (K)   It shall be unlawful for any person under the age of 21 years to
possess in the city, any alcoholic beverages outside of the confines of his, or
her, abode or residence. Any alcoholic beverages found in possession of such
person shall be seized as contraband.
   (L)   It shall be the duty of every retail licensee to display it at all
times in a prominent place a printed card at least eight inches by 11 inches in
size which shall show, in 30 point or large type, substantially as follows:
WARNING TO MINORS
      Persons under the age of twenty-one (21) are subject to a fine of up to
one hundred ($100.00) dollars if they:
      i.   Enter licensed premises to buy, or have served to them, alcoholic
beverages.
      ii.   Possess, purchase or attempt to purchase, or get another to
purchase alcoholic beverages.
      iii.   Misrepresent their age for the purpose of purchasing or obtaining
alcoholic beverages.
   (M)   Persons at least 18 years of age may stock, arrange displays, accept
payment for and sack malt beverages by the package, under the supervision of an
adult. Delivery of malt beverages away from the parking area of the licensed
premises shall not be performed by any under the age of 20 years.
   (N)   No licensee shall knowingly or willfully allow in, upon or about his
licensed premises lewd, immoral or obscene entertainment, activities or
advertising materials.
   (O)   No malt beverages shall be sold or purchased for consumption on a
premise with a carry-out package license. No malt beverages shall be sold or
purchased to be carried out of a premise with a restaurant or hotel/motel by-
the-drink license.
(Ord. 3, 2021, passed 2-25-2021)
§ 116.60 EMPLOYEE PROHIBITIONS.
   A person holding a license shall not knowingly employ in connection with the
licensed business, any person for any cause or reason set out in KRS 244.090.
(Ord. 3, 2021, passed 2-25-2021)
§ 116.99 PENALTY.
   In addition to any administrative action taken for violation of this
chapter, criminal prosecution may be instituted in Boyd District Court alleging
a violation which may result in penalties as set out in KRS 534.040.
(Ord. 3, 2021, passed 2-25-2021)
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   BUILDING CODE
      
151.   RENTAL HOUSING
      
152.   FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
      
153.   EROSION PREVENTION AND SEDIMENT CONTROL
      
154.   ZONING
CHAPTER 150: BUILDING CODE
Section
Adoption of Standard Codes
   
150.01   Standards of Safety adopted; enforcement
   
150.02   Adoption of Building Code and related codes
   
150.03   Adopting the NFPA 1, Fire Code and NFPA 101 Life Safety Code
Building Permits
   
150.15   Building permit required
   
150.16   Permit fees; authority of Building Inspector
   
150.17   Purpose; disposition of fees
   
150.18   Zoning Code not amended or repealed
 
   
150.99   Penalty
ADOPTION OF STANDARD CODES
§ 150.01 STANDARDS OF SAFETY ADOPTED; ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   The most current edition of the State Standards of Safety, a copy of
which is on file in the office of the City Clerk, is hereby adopted in full as
an ordinance of this city as if written in length in words and figures.
   (B)   The Fire Chief along with all other officers, agents, and employees of
the city are hereby charged with the enforcement of the provisions of the
Standards of Safety.
(Prior Code, § 150.01) (Ord. passed 1-17-1964) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.02 ADOPTION OF BUILDING CODE AND RELATED CODES.
   (A)   The Kentucky Building Code and the Kentucky Residential Code, being
815 KAR 7:125, as promulgated and/or approved by the commonwealth’s Board of
Housing, Buildings and Construction, and as they may be revised or amended, are
hereby adopted in full as an ordinance of the city by reference, as if set out
at length herein.
   (B)   Copies of the above Codes shall be kept on file in the office of the
Clerk of the city, and the Clerk shall at all times keep a copy of said Codes
for reference during regular office hours.
   (C)   An attested copy of this section shall be transmitted to the
Department of Housing, Buildings and Construction of the commonwealth.
   (D)   The City Building Inspector shall be the designated local enforcement
officer for the above Codes. All Building Code inspections shall be performed
by persons certified by the Kentucky Office of Housing, Buildings and
Construction. All electrical inspections shall be performed by a state
certified electrical inspector specifically approved by the city.
   (E)   Pursuant to KRS 198B.060(8), a building inspection program is hereby
established in the city for application to all buildings.
   (F)   The fees for permits and inspections shall be as provided for in a
schedule to be maintained by the City Clerk, which schedule may be amended and
revised, from time to time, in the discretion of the City Council.
   (G)   This section shall be in full force and effect from and after its
adoption, readoption, and publication, as required by law.
(Prior Code, § 150.02) (Ord. 03 of the 2012 Series, passed 1-17-2012)
§ 150.03 ADOPTING THE NFPA 1, FIRE CODE AND NFPA 101 LIFE SAFETY CODE.
   (A)   That the NFPA 1, Fire Code, 2012 edition and documents adopted by
Chapter 2, three copies of which are on file and are open to inspection by the
public in the office of the City Clerk of the City of Catlettsburg, Kentucky,
are hereby adopted and incorporated into the ordinance as fully as if set out
at length herein, and from the date on which this ordinance shall take effect,
the provisions thereof shall be controlling within the limits of the City of
Catlettsburg, Kentucky. The same are hereby adopted by the Code of the City of
Catlettsburg for the purpose of prescribing regulations governing conditions
hazardous to life and property from fire or explosion and providing for
issuance of permits and collection of fees and penalties.
   (B)   Any person who shall violate any provisions of this code or standard
hereby adopted or fail to comply therewith; or who shall violate or fail to
comply with any order made thereunder; or shall build in violation of any
detailed statement of specification or plans submitted and approved thereunder;
and from which no appeal has been taken; or who shall fail to comply with such
an order as affirmed or modified by a court of competent jurisdiction, within
the time fixed herein, shall severally for each and every such violation and
noncompliance, respectively, be guilty of a misdemeanor, punishable by a fine
not less that $100 nor more than $500 or by imprisonment for not more than 30
days or by both such fine and imprisonment. The imposition of one penalty for
any violation shall not excuse the violation or permit it to continue; and all
such persons shall be required to correct or remedy such violations or defects
within a reasonable time; and when not otherwise specified the application of
the above penalty shall not be held to prevent the enforced removal of
prohibited conditions. Each day that prohibited conditions are maintained shall
constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 02, 2015 Series, passed 2-26-2015)
BUILDING PERMITS
§ 150.15 BUILDING PERMIT REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to erect a
building in the city without first securing a permit therefor.
(Prior Code, § 150.10) (Ord. 11-1950, passed 11-6-1950) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.16 PERMIT FEES; AUTHORITY OF BUILDING INSPECTOR.
   The following administrative procedures shall apply to the issuance of
permits for the erection, movement, repair, removal, conversion, or
demolishment of buildings within the city.
   (A)   Action on application.
      (1)   No person, firm, or corporation shall erect, construct, enlarge,
alter, repair, move, improve, remove, convert, or demolish any building or
structure in the city, or cause same to be done, without first filing an
application for and obtaining a separate permit for buildings or structures
from the
Building Inspector of the city. Each application shall contain no less than two
sets of plans for the activity for which a permit is sought.
      (2)   If the Building Inspector is satisfied that the work described in
an application for permit and the drawings filed therewith conform to the
requirements of this section and §
150.17, the Kentucky Building Code, being 815 KAR 7:120, and other pertinent
laws or ordinances, the Building Inspector shall issue a permit therefor to the
applicant.
      (3)   If the application for a permit and the drawings filed therewith
describe work which does not conform to the requirements of this section and §
150.17 or other pertinent laws or ordinances, the Building Inspector shall not
issue a permit, but shall return the drawings to the applicant with his or her
refusal to issue the permit. The refusal shall, when requested, be in writing
and shall contain reasons therefor.
   (B)   Contractor’s license. It shall be the duty of every contractor who
shall make contracts for the erection, construction, enlargement, repair,
movement, improvement, removal, conversion, or demolishment of buildings for
which a permit is required, and every contractor making such contracts and
subletting the same or any part thereof, to obtain an occupational license
provided for in the general license ordinance and to register with the Building
Inspector, giving full name, residence, and place of business.
   (C)   Conditions of the permit. The Building Inspector shall act upon an
application for a permit with plans as filed, or as amended, without
unreasonable or unnecessary delay. A permit issued shall be construed to be a
license to proceed with the work and shall not be construed as authority to
violate, cancel, alter, or set aside any of the provisions of this section and
§
150.17, nor shall such issuance of permit prevent the Building Inspector from
thereafter requiring a correction of errors in plans or in construction, or of
violations in this section and §
150.17. Any permit issued shall become invalid unless the work authorized by it
shall have been commenced within one year after its issuance, or if the work
authorized by such permit is suspended or abandoned for a period of six months
after the time of commencing the work, provided, however, that for cause, one
or more extensions of time for periods not exceeding 90 days each may be
allowed in writing by the Building Inspector.
   (D)   Drawings to be kept at site. When the Building Inspector issues a
permit, he or she shall endorse two sets of plans approved in writing or stamp.
One set of plans so approved shall be retained by the Building Inspector and
the other set shall be returned to the applicant. The latter set of approved
plans shall be kept at the site of work and shall be open to inspection by the
Building Inspector or his or her authorized representative.
   (E)   Foundation permits. When application for a permit to erect or enlarge
a building has been filed and pending issuance of the permits, the Building
Inspector may, at his or her discretion, issue a special permit for the
foundations of the building. The holder of such a special permit shall proceed
at his or her own risk and without assurance that a permit for the
superstructure will be granted.
   (F)   Inspections. The City Building Inspector shall be allowed to conduct
rental property inspections without assistance or presence of a member of the
City Fire Department.
(Prior Code, § 150.11) (Ord. 24-1986, passed 7-8-1986; Ord. 04-1999 Series,
passed 5-25-1999)
§ 150.17 PURPOSE; DISPOSITION OF FEES.
   (A)   Permits, issuance. The following administrative procedures shall apply
to the issuance of permits for the erection, movement, repair, removal,
conversion, or demolishment of buildings within the city.
      (1)   Action on application.
         (a)   No person, firm or corporation shall erect, construct, enlarge,
alter, repair, move, improve, remove, convert, or demolish any building or
structure in the city or cause same to be done, without first filing an
application for and obtaining a separate permit for such buildings or
structures from the City Building Inspector. Each application shall contain no
less than two sets of plans for the activity for which a permit is sought.
         (b)   If the Building Inspector is satisfied that the work described
in an application for permit and the drawings filed therewith conform to the
requirements of this section, the Kentucky Building Code and other pertinent
laws or ordinances, the Building Inspector shall issue a permit therefor to the
applicant.
         (c)   If the application for a permit and the drawings filed therewith
describe work which does not conform to the requirements of this section or
other pertinent laws or ordinances, the Building Inspector shall not issue a
permit, but shall return the drawings to the applicant with his refusal to
issue such permit. Such refusal shall, when requested, be in writing and shall
contain reasons therefor.
      (2)   Contractor's license. It shall be the duty of every contractor who
shall make contracts for the erection, construction, enlargement, repair,
movement, improvement, removal, conversion or demolishment of buildings for
which a permit is required, and every contractor making such contracts and
subletting the same or any part thereof, to obtain an occupational license
provided for in the general license ordinance and to register with the Building
Inspector, giving full name, residence and place of business. No permit shall
be issued for work to be performed by any licensed contractor except upon the
contractor providing proof of current in-force workers' compensation insurance
coverage and liability insurance in an amount not less than $1,000,000 per
occurrence.
      (3)   Conditions op the permit. The Building Inspector shall act upon an
application for a permit with plans as filed, or as amended, without
unreasonable or unnecessary delay. A permit issued shall be construed to be a
license to proceed with the work and shall not be construed as authority to
violate, cancel, alter or set aside any of the provisions of this section, nor
shall such issuance of permit prevent the Building Inspector from thereafter
requiring a correction of errors in plans or in construction, or of
violations in this section. Any permit issued shall become invalid unless the
work authorized by it shall have been commenced within one year afer its
issuance, or if the work authorized by such permit is suspended or abandoned
for a period of six months after the time of commencing the work, provided,
however that for cause, one or more extensions of time for periods not
exceeding ninety days each may be allowed in writing by the Building Inspector.
      (4)   Drawings to be kept at site. When the Building Inspector issues a
permit, he shall endorse two sets of plans “APPROVED” in writing or stamp. One
set of plans so approved shall be retained by the Building Inspector and the
other set shall be returned to the applicant. The latter set of approved plans
shall be kept at the site of work and shall be open to inspection by the
Building Inspector or his authorized representative.
      (5)   Foundation permits. When the application for a permit to erect or
enlarge a building has been filed and pending issuance of such permits, the
Building Inspector may, at his discretion, issue a special permit for the
foundations of such building. The holder of such a special permit shall proceed
at his own risk and without assurance that a permit for the super structure
will be granted.
   (B)   Fees. No permit shall be issued until the fees prescribed in this
section shall have been paid. No amendment to a permit shall be approved until
the additional fee, if any due to an increase in the estimated cost of the
building or structure, shall have been paid.
      (1)   Failure to timely obtain a permit. In the event any construction,
alteration, repair or other activity regarding any building or structure is
commenced before the required permit is issued for same by the Building
Inspector, a penalty shall be charged for the issuance of the permit in
addition to the regular fee, which penalty shall be in the amount two times the
ordinary building permit fee.
      (2)   Accurate records. The Building Inspector shall keep a permanent and
accurate accounting of all permit fees and other moneys collected, the names of
all persons upon whose account the same was paid, the date and amount thereof.
      (3)   Schedule of permit fees for building designed for human habitation
and accessory buildings pertaining thereto. All residential building permit
fees shall be based on the following scale:
         (a)   One hundred dollars per residential building permit or $.15 per
square foot, for each additional 1,000 feet in excess of the original 1,000
feet, whichever is greater.
         (b)   There will be no permit fee for any project that requires no
structural modifications, but a building permit must be issued.
         (c)   Cash or performance bond in an amount to be determined under all
of the circumstances by the Building Inspector, but in no event to be less than
$10,000, shall be required. A permit fee based upon a charge of $5 per $1,000
valuation of ths structure is required.
      (4)   Schedule op permit pees for commercial and industrial structures.
Commercial permit fees shall be based on the following scale: $200 per
commercial building permit or $.30 per square foot for each additional 1,000
feet in excess of the original 1,000 feet, whichever is greater.
      (5)   Damage to adjacent property. In all cases where there is a
possibility of damage to city or private properties such as sidewalks, streets,
adjacent buildings or utilities, proof of bonding in an amount deemed
sufficient by the Building Inspector must be furnished. In lieu of coverage by
a commercial bonding company, a cash bond in an amount sufficient to cover
possible damage will be posted as a condition of the granting of the permit.
      (6)   Demolition. The fee for either a residential or commercial building
permit for the demolition of a structure shall, be $100 for the demolition of
all structures under 10,000 square feet and $10 per each additional 1,000
square feet in excess of the original 10,000 square feet.
      (7)   Swimming pool. A building permit for a residential swimming pool
shall be $100 per building permit.
      (8)   Fence or retaining wall. The cost of a building permit for any
fence or retaining wall that requires footing shall be $100 or $.30 per square
foot, whichever is more.
(Prior Code, § 150.12) (Ord. 24-1986, passed 7-8-1986; Ord. 03-2014 Series,
passed 2-18-2014) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.18 ZONING CODE NOT AMENDED OR REPEALED.
   This subchapter shall not be understood to repeal or modify any of the
sections of the Zoning Code in Chapter 154 of this code of ordinances
restricting the erection of certain types of buildings and certain
specifications in the so called fire zones within the city.
(Prior Code, § 150.13) (Ord. 11-1950, passed 11-6-1950)
§ 150.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter for which no specific
penalty is provided shall be fined not more than $500.
   (B)   (1)   Any person who violates any provision of §
150.01 of this code or of KRS 227.200 through 227.400 or any provision of a
lawful order, rule, or regulation made under the provision of KRS 227.200
through 227.400, or induces another to violate any provisions of KRS 227.200
through 227.400 or of any lawful order, rule, or regulation made thereunder,
shall be fined not less than $25 nor more than $1,000, or confined in the
county jail for not more than 60 days, or both. Each day such violations exist
shall, in the discretion of the courts, be considered a separate offense. The
imposition of the penalties herein prescribed shall not preclude the city from
instituting an appropriate action or proceeding
to prevent an unlawful erection, construction, reconstruction, alteration,
repair, conversion, maintenance, or use, or to restrain, correct, or abate a
violation, or to prevent the occupancy of a building, structure, or premises,
or to prevent an illegal act, conduct, business, or use in or about any
premises.
(KRS 227.900)
      (2)   Any person, firm, or corporation who shall violate any provision of
the codes adopted in §§
150.01 and
150.02 shall, upon conviction thereof, be subject to a fine of not less than
$15 nor more than $100 or imprisonment of a term not to exceed 30 days or both,
at the discretion of the court. Each day that a violation continues after due
notice has been served, in accordance with the terms and provisions hereof,
shall be deemed a separate offense.
      (3)   Anyone receiving an order to raze and remove any existing structure
shall within ten days after service of such an order apply to the court of
record for an order restraining the Code Officer from razing or removing the
structure or parts thereof. If the owner of the property fails to comply with
the demolition order within the time prescribed or fails to petition the court
for restraining order, then the code officials shall cause the structure or
part thereof to be razed and removed and the cost of the razing and removal
shall be charged against the real estate upon which the structure is located
and shall be a lien upon the real estate.
(Prior Code, § 150.99) (Ord. passed 1-17-1964; Ord. 25-1986, passed 8-5-1986)
CHAPTER 151: RENTAL HOUSING
Section
   
151.01   Purpose
   
151.02   Scope
   
151.03   Definitions
   
151.04   Illegal conditions
   
151.05   Application for certificate of use and occupancy
   
151.06   Filing deadline
   
151.07   Fees and conditions
   
151.08   Inspections
   
151.09   Certification and use of occupancy; display; transfer; expiration
   
151.10   Certification of smoke alarms; Code Officer inspection; probable cause
   
151.11   Notice of violation
   
151.12   Right of appeal
   
151.13   Effective date
 
   
151.99   Penalty
§ 151.01 PURPOSE.
   (A)   The purpose of this chapter is to promote health and safety standards
for rental housing and to secure and preserve the integrity and character of
residential districts within the city.
   (B)   These standards relate to the condition, maintenance, and occupancy of
rental dwelling units and are intended to ensure that rental housing is safe,
sanitary, and suitable in accordance with applicable provisions of the Kentucky
Building Code, being 815 KAR 7:120, the Kentucky Fire Prevention Code, and all
other laws and regulations as adopted by the city.
(Ord. 10-1997 Series, passed 11-20-1997)
§ 151.02 SCOPE.
   This chapter applies to all rental dwelling units within the city.
(Ord. 10-1997 Series, passed 11-20-1997)
§ 151.03 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CERTIFICATE OF USE AND OCCUPANCY. The certificate issued by the Code Officer
which permits the use of a building and which certifies compliance with the
provisions of law for the use and occupancy of the building in its several
parts together with any special stipulations or conditions.
   CODE OFFICER. The officer or other designated authority charged with the
administration and enforcement of the Building Code, being 815 KAR 7:120, of
the city, or a duly authorized representative.
   DWELLING UNIT. A single unit providing complete, independent living
facilities for one or more persons, including permanent provisions for living,
sleeping, eating, cooking, and sanitation.
   RENTAL DWELLING UNIT. Any dwelling unit which is offered in whole or part
for residential purposes and for which remuneration is received.
(Ord. 10-1997 Series, passed 11-20-1997)
§ 151.04 ILLEGAL CONDITIONS.
   After 60 days from the effective date of this chapter, an owner or operator
shall not rent or offer for rent any dwelling unit for use in whole or in part
for human habitation unless a written application for a certificate of use and
occupancy has been filed for such dwelling unit and a valid certificate of use
and occupancy has been issued for such dwelling unit by the Code Officer
indicating that inspection found the premises to be in substantial compliance
with the Kentucky Building Code, being 815 KAR 7:120, the Kentucky Fire
Prevention Code, and all other laws and regulations as adopted by the city.
(Ord. 10-1997 Series, passed 11-20-1997)
§ 151.05 APPLICATION FOR CERTIFICATE OF USE AND OCCUPANCY.
   (A)   Application for a certificate of use and occupancy shall be submitted
in writing, on forms provided, to the Code Officer and shall contain at least
the following information:
      (1)    For the dwelling:
         (a)   The address(es) of dwelling units;
         (b)   The zoning district of the dwelling;
         (c)   The number of utilities to the dwelling;
         (d)   The names, addresses, and telephone numbers of the owner, agent,
or operator, and other person to be notified in case of emergency or
nonconforming condition requiring notification; and
         (e)   Any other uses within the building.
      (2)    For each dwelling unit:
         (a)   The story on which the unit is located;
         (b)   Maximum occupancy;
         (c)   Number of off-street parking spaces available; and
         (d)   Dwelling unit identification number.
   (B)   Upon receipt of the application for certificate of use, the Code
Officer shall forward a copy of the application to the city officer or other
authority charged with enforcing the Kentucky Fire Prevention Code.
(Ord. 10-1997 Series, passed 11-20-1997)
§ 151.06 FILING DEADLINE.
   (A)   Initial application. Application for a certificate of use and
occupancy for a rental dwelling unit where none has previously been issued
shall be in accordance with §
151.05.
   (B)   Renewal application.
      (1)   An application for renewal of the existing certificate of use and
occupancy shall be filed at least 30 days before the expiration date of the
existing certificate of use and occupancy.
      (2)   Upon receiving an application for renewal of the certificate of use
and occupancy, the Code Officer shall inspect the dwelling and shall re-issue a
certificate of use and occupancy within ten days following inspection.
      (3)   If said unit is found to be in substantial compliance with the
Kentucky Building Code, being 815 KAR 7:120, the Kentucky Fire Prevention Code
and all other laws and regulations as adopted by the city.
(Ord. 10-1997 Series, passed 11-20-1997)
§ 151.07 FEES AND CONDITIONS.
   (A)   Each property owner shall be charged a compliance inspection fee of
$50 per inspection per unit.
   (B)   Property owners missing scheduled inspections and failing to provide
24 hours’ notice shall be charged an additional $10 fee.
   (C)   All inspections shall be scheduled during regular business hours,
unless otherwise approved by the Code Officer.
   (D)   Re-inspection fees of $25 per unit shall be charged to the property
owner for such inspection of property requiring more than two inspections for
compliance.
   (E)   Application fees of $100 shall be charged for Board of Appeals
hearings.
(Ord. 10-1997 Series, passed 11-20-1997; Ord. 02-2014 Series, passed 2-18-2014)
§ 151.08 INSPECTIONS.
   The owner for purposes of inspection under rental registration shall provide
the Code Officer access to all areas of any building containing rental dwelling
units and the Code Officer shall be accompanied by the owner or agent of the
owner during inspection.
(Ord. 10-1997 Series, passed 11-20-1997)
§ 151.09 CERTIFICATE AND USE OF OCCUPANCY; DISPLAY; TRANSFER; EXPIRATION.
   (A)   If, upon inspection, the rental dwelling unit is found to conform to
the requirement of this chapter, all laws and regulations of the city and the
officer or authority charged with enforcing the Kentucky Fire Prevention Code
has issued written conformation that the dwelling is in compliance with said
Code, the Code Officer shall issue a certificate of use and occupancy within
ten days.
   (B)   After the effective date of this section, either upon an initial
application or a renewal application, a one-year certificate of use and
occupancy shall be issued for the dwelling unit after the Code Officer finds
the unit in substantial compliance with this chapter.
   (C)   The certificate of use and occupancy shall not be transferable to
subsequent owners of the respective dwelling units after a period of six months
from issuance of said certificate.
   (D)   A copy of the certificate of use and occupancy shall be available for
inspection at the city office during regular business hours.
   (E)   Certificates of use and occupancy issued after the effective date of
this section shall expire four
years from the date of issuance by the Code Officer unless sooner revoked.
   (F)   The owner/agent shall post a copy of the certificate of use and
occupancy in a conspicuous location in the interior of the premises and near
the interior electrical fuse or circuit box of each dwelling unit.
(Ord. 10-1997 Series, passed 11-20-1997; Ord. 09-2001 Series, passed 8-27-2001)
§ 151.10 CERTIFICATION OF SMOKE ALARMS; CODE OFFICER INSPECTION; PROBABLE
CAUSE.
   (A)   The Code Officer may request in writing annually a statement from the
owner of the property certifying that all smoke alarms and/or other systems are
in good working order. The Code Officer may inspect any property for which such
a statement is requested and not forthcoming from the owner in seven days.
   (B)   The Code Officer may conduct an inspection of any rental property
covered by this section at his or her discretion when probable cause of
violation is found.
(Ord. 09-2001 Series, passed 8-27-2001)
§ 151.11 NOTICE OF VIOLATION.
   (A)   When in the course of inspection required under this chapter,
violations are discovered on the premises which do not affect the habitability
or safety of a rental dwelling, such violations shall be cited in accordance
with the administrative provisions of the applicable code or ordinance. Such
violations shall not be construed as grounds to withhold or revoke the
certificate of use and occupancy.
   (B)   (1)   Where conditions exist which affect the habitability of the
dwelling but which do not pose an imminent hazard to the occupants, a
certificate of use and occupancy shall be issued along with a notice of
violation. The notice of violation shall be in writing, shall be served to the
owner or agent, shall contain a description of the property sufficient, and
shall include:
         (a)   A statement of the reason(s) for which it was issued;
         (b)   A correction order specifying repairs to be made;
         (c)   A reasonable time in which repairs are to be completed; and
         (d)   A statement of the owner’s right to appeal.
      (2)   The owner shall, within the time period specified in the notice of
violation, correct all deficiencies cited in violation of city codes. The
certificate of use and occupancy shall be revoked and a notice to vacate issued
if the dwelling unit is not in compliance within the time specified in the
notice of violation. However, the Code Officer may, upon written request,
extend the period for compliance where the work has been delayed despite good-
faith efforts to comply and where such extension presents no immediate threat
to the health or safety of the occupants of the dwelling unit or other units or
properties. A notice of violation shall be construed to verify substandard
housing except where conditions exist which require the vacation of the
dwelling or dwelling unit. The owner shall immediately, upon receipt of notice
of violation, notify all residents of all dwelling units of said violation and
shall post notice of same on or near the entrance to each dwelling unit so that
the notice is plainly visible to residents of each dwelling unit.
   (C)   (1)   Where violations are found which, in the judgment of the Code
Officer, are sufficient to withhold or revoke the certificate of use and
occupancy, the Code Officer shall issue a notice to vacate.
      (2)   The notice to vacate shall:
         (a)   Be in writing;
         (b)   Be served to the owner or owner’s agent;
         (c)   Contain a description of the property sufficient for
identification;
         (d)   State the reasons therefor;
         (e)   Include a copy of any relevant notice(s) of violation; and
         (f)   Include notification of the owner’s right of appeal.
   (D)   Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to prevent the Code Officer
from ordering the immediate vacation of any dwelling or dwelling unit where
violations are discovered which pose an imminent threat to the health or safety
of the occupants. Appeal shall not stay an order to vacate under such
conditions.
   (E)   Occupancy of any rental dwelling unit in violation of a notice to
vacate shall subject the owner, agent, and/or the occupants to the penalties
prescribed in §
151.99.
(Ord. 10-1997 Series, passed 11-20-1997) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.12 RIGHT OF APPEAL.
   Any property owner or agent shall have the right to appeal to the Board of
Zoning Adjustment from a decision of the Code Officer where it is alleged that
the intent of this chapter or the codes referenced herein have been incorrectly
interpreted, the provisions of this chapter do not fully apply, or an
equivalent remedy to any violation may be employed. Such appeal shall be in
writing stating the reasons therefore and shall be submitted to the Code
Officer within 20 days of receipt of the notice of violation. Except where
conditions warrant immediate vacation of the dwelling, such appeal shall stay
all action on the part of the Code Officer in furtherance of the notice of
violation from which the appeal was taken. The appeal provisions herein shall
not apply to a decision of the officer or other authority charged with
enforcing the Kentucky Fire Prevention Code.
(Ord. 10-1997 Series, passed 11-20-1997)
§ 151.13 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This chapter shall be in full force and effect from and after its adoption
and readoption as required by law.
(Ord. 10-1997 Series, passed 11-20-1997)
§ 151.99 PENALTY.
   Violation of this chapter shall constitute a misdemeanor punishable by a
fine of not less than $10, nor more than $500. Each day that the violation
continues after notification of same by the Code Officer, it shall be deemed a
separate offense. The imposition of penalties prescribed herein shall not
relieve the property owner from responsibility for full compliance with all
other applicable codes and ordinances, including any and all separate fines and
penalties imposed thereunder.
(Ord. 10-1997 Series, passed 11-20-1997)
CHAPTER 152: FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
Section
General Provisions
   
152.01   Statutory authorization
   
152.02   Findings of fact
   
152.03   Statement of purpose
   
152.04   Objectives
   
152.05   Definitions
   
152.06   Lands to which this chapter applies
   
152.07   Basis for establishing the special flood hazard areas
   
152.08   Development permit
   
152.09   Compliance
   
152.10   Abrogation and greater restrictions
   
152.11   Interpretation
   
152.12   Warning and disclaimer of liability
   
152.13   Enforcement and violation notice
Administration
   
152.25   Designation of local Administrator
   
152.26   Establishment of development permit
   
152.27   Duties and responsibilities of the local Administrator
Flood Hazard Reduction
   
152.40   General construction standards
   
152.41   Specific standards
   
152.42   Standards for streams without established base flood elevation and/or
floodways
   
152.43   Standards for shallow flooding zones
   
152.44   Standards for subdivision proposals
   
152.45   Standards for accessory structures in all zones beginning with the
letter “A”
   
152.46   Critical facilities
Appeals and Variance Procedure
   
152.60   Nature of variation
   
152.61   Designation of Variance and Appeals Board
   
152.62   Duties of Variance and Appeals Board
   
152.63   Variance procedures
   
152.64   Conditions for variance
   
152.65   Variance notification
   
152.66   Historic structures
 
   
152.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 152.01 STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION.
   The legislature of the commonwealth has in KRS Ch. 83A delegated to local
government units the authority to adopt regulations designed to promote the
public health, safety, and general welfare of its citizenry. Therefore, the
City Council hereby adopts the following floodplain management chapter.
(Ord. 4 of 2013 Series, passed 7-16-2013)
§ 152.02 FINDINGS OF FACT.
   (A)   The flood hazard areas of the city are subject to periodic inundation
which result in loss of life and property, health and safety hazards,
disruption of commerce and governmental services, extraordinary public
expenditures for flood protection and relief, and impairment of the tax base,
all which adversely affect the public health, safety, and general welfare.
   (B)   These flood losses are caused by the cumulative effect of obstructions
in floodplains causing increased flood height and velocity, and by the location
in flood hazard areas of uses vulnerable to floods or hazardous to other lands
which are inadequately elevated, flood-proofed, or otherwise protected from
flood damage.
(Ord. 4 of 2013 Series, passed 7-16-2013)
§ 152.03 STATEMENT OF PURPOSE.
   It is the purpose of this chapter is to promote the public health, safety,
and general welfare and to minimize public and private loss due to flooding by
provisions designed to:
   (A)   Restrict or prohibit uses which are dangerous to health, safety, and
property due to water erosion hazards, or which result in damaging increases in
erosion or in flood height or velocity;
   (B)   Require that uses vulnerable to floods, including facilities which
serve such uses, be protected against flood damage at the time of initial
construction;
   (C)   Control the alteration of natural floodplains, stream channels, and
natural protective barriers which accommodate or channel floodwaters;
   (D)   Control filling, grading, dredging, and other development which may
increase erosion or flood damage; and
   (E)   Prevent or regulate the construction of flood barriers which will
unnaturally divert floodwaters or which may increase flood hazards to other
areas.
(Ord. 4 of 2013 Series, passed 7-16-2013)
§ 152.04 OBJECTIVES.
   The objectives of this chapter are to:
   (A)   Protect human life and health;
   (B)   Minimize expenditure of public money for costly flood control
projects;
   (C)   Minimize the need for rescue and relief efforts associated with
flooding and generally undertaken at the expense of the general public;
   (D)   Minimize prolonged business interruptions;
   (E)   Minimize damage to public facilities and utilities such as water and
gas mains, electric, telephone, and sewer lines; streets and bridges located in
areas of special flood hazard;
   (F)   Help maintain a stable tax base by providing for the sound use and
development of areas of special flood hazard or other flood-prone areas in such
a manner as to minimize future flood blighted areas caused by flooding;
   (G)   Ensure that potential home-buyers are on notice that property is in a
special flood hazard area; and
   (H)   Ensure that those who occupy a special flood hazard area assume
responsibility for their actions.
(Ord. 4 of 2013 Series, passed 7-16-2013)
§ 152.05 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   A ZONE. Special flood hazard areas inundated by the 1% annual chance flood
(100-year flood). Base flood elevations (BFEs) are not determined.
   A99 ZONE. The part of the SFHA inundated by the 100-year flood which is to
be protected from the 100-year flood by a federal flood protection system under
construction. No base flood elevations are determined.
   ACCESSORY STRUCTURE (APPURTENANT STRUCTURE). A structure located on the same
parcel of property as the principal structure and the use of which is
incidental to the use of the principal structure. ACCESSORY STRUCTURES should
constitute a minimal initial investment, may not be used for human habitation,
and should be designed to have minimal flood damage potential. Examples of
ACCESSORY STRUCTURES are detached garages, carports, storage sheds, pole barns,
and hay sheds.
   ACCESSORY USE. A use which is incidental and subordinate to the principal
use of the parcel of land on which it is located.
   ADDITION (TO AN EXISTING STRUCTURE). Any walled and roofed expansion to the
perimeter or height of a structure.
   AE ZONES. Special flood hazard areas inundated by the 1% annual chance flood
(100-year flood). Base flood elevations (BFEs) are determined.
   AH ZONE. An area of 100-year shallow flooding where depths are between one
and three feet (usually shallow ponding). Base flood elevations are determined.
   AO ZONE. An area of 100-year shallow flooding where water depth is between
one and three feet (usually sheet flow on sloping terrain). Flood depths are
determined.
   APPEAL. A request for a review of the Floodplain Administrator’s
interpretation of any provision of this chapter or from the Floodplain
Administrator’s ruling on a request for a variance.
   AR/A1-A30, AR/AE, AR/AH, AR/AO, and AR/A ZONES. Special flood hazard areas
(SFHAs) that result from the de-certification of a previously accredited flood
protection system that is in the process of being restored to provide a 100-
year or greater level of flood protection. After restoration is complete, these
areas will still experience residual flooding from other flooding sources.
   AREA OF SHALLOW FLOODING. A designated AO or AH Zone on a community’s flood
insurance rate map (FIRM) where the base flood depths range from one to three
feet, there is no clearly defined channel, the path of flooding is
unpredictable and indeterminate, and velocity flow may be evident. Such
flooding is characterized by ponding or sheet flow.
   BASE FLOOD. A flood which has a 1% chance of being equaled or exceeded in
any given year (also called the 100-YEAR FLOOD). BASE FLOOD is the term used
throughout this chapter.
   BASE FLOOD ELEVATION (BFE). The elevation shown on the Flood Insurance Rate
Map (FIRM) for Zones AE, AH, A1-30, AR, AR/A, AR/AE, AR/A1-A30, AR/AH, and AR/
AO that indicates the water surface elevation resulting from a flood that has a
1% or greater chance of being equaled or exceeded in any given year.
   BASEMENT. Any area of a structure having its floor sub-grade (below ground
level) on all sides.
   BUILDING. See definition for STRUCTURE.
   COMMUNITY. A political entity having the authority to adopt and enforce
floodplain ordinances for the area under its jurisdiction.
   COMMUNITY FLOOD HAZARD AREA (CFHA). An area that has been determined by the
Floodplain Administrator (or other delegated, designated, or qualified
community official) from available technical studies, historical information,
and other available and reliable sources, which may be subject to periodic
inundation by floodwaters that can adversely affect the public health, safety,
and general welfare. This includes areas downstream from dams.
   COMMUNITY RATING SYSTEM (CRS). A program developed by the Federal Insurance
Administration to provide incentives to those communities in the regular
program to go beyond the minimum floodplain management requirements to develop
extra measures for protection from flooding.
   CRITICAL FACILITY.
      (1)   Any property that, if flooded, would result in severe consequences
to public health and safety or a facility which, if unusable or unreachable
because of flooding, would seriously and adversely affect the health and safety
of the public.
      (2)   CRITICAL FACILITIES include, but are not limited to: housing likely
to contain occupants not sufficiently mobile to avoid injury or death unaided
during a flood; schools, nursing homes, hospitals, police, fire and emergency
response installations, vehicle and equipment storage facilities, emergency
operations centers likely to be called upon before, during and after a flood,
public and private utility facilities important to maintaining or restoring
normal services before, during and after a flood, and those facilities or
installations which produce, use or store volatile, flammable, explosive, toxic
and/or water-reactive materials, hazardous materials, or hazardous waste.
   D ZONE. An area in which the flood hazard is undetermined.
   DEVELOPMENT. Any human-made change to improved or unimproved real estate,
including, but not limited to, buildings or other structures, mining, dredging,
filling, grading, paving, excavating, drilling operations, or storage of
equipment or materials.
   ELEVATED STRUCTURE. For insurance proposes, a non-basement structure built
to have the lowest floor elevated above ground level by foundation walls, shear
walls, posts, piers, pilings, or columns.
   ELEVATION CERTIFICATE. A statement certified by a registered professional
engineer or surveyor on the FEMA-approved form in effect at the time of
certification that verifies a structure’s elevation and other related
information to verify compliance with this chapter.
   EMERGENCY PROGRAM. The initial phase under which a community participates in
the NFIP, intended to provide a first layer amount of insurance at subsidized
rates on all insurable structures in that community before the effective date
of the initial FIRM.
   ENCLOSURE. The portion of a structure below the lowest floor used solely for
parking of vehicles, limited storage, or access to the structure.
   ENCROACHMENT. The physical advance or infringement of uses, plant growth,
fill, excavation, structures, or development into a floodplain, which may
impede or alter the flow capacity of a floodplain.
   EXISTING CONSTRUCTION. Any structure for which the “start of construction”
commenced before the effective date of the FIRM or before January 1, 1975, for
FIRMs effective before that date. EXISTING CONSTRUCTION may also be referred to
as EXISTING STRUCTURES.
   EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including, at a minimum the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed before the effective date
of the first floodplain management ordinance adopted by a community.
   EXPANSION TO AN EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. The
preparation of additional sites by the construction of facilities for servicing
the lots on which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads).
   FIVE HUNDRED YEAR FLOOD. The flood that has a 0.2% chance of being equaled
or exceeded in any year. Areas subject to the 500-YEAR FLOOD have a moderate
risk of flooding.
   FLOOD or FLOODING. A general and temporary condition of partial or complete
inundation of normally dry land areas from:
      (1)   The overflow of inland or tidal waters;
      (2)   The unusual and rapid accumulation or runoff of surface waters from
any source;
      (3)   Mudslides which are proximately caused by flooding and are akin to
a river of liquid and flowing mud on the surfaces of normally dry land areas,
as when earth is carried by a current of water and deposited along the path of
the current; and/or
      (4)   The collapse or subsidence of land along the shore of a lake or
other body of water as a result of erosion or undermining caused by waves or
currents of water exceeding anticipated cyclical levels or suddenly caused by
an unusually high water level in a natural body of water, accompanied by a
severe storm, or by an unanticipated force of nature, such as flash flood or an
abnormal tidal surge, or by some similarly unusual and unforeseeable event
which results in flooding.
   FLOOD BOUNDARY AND FLOODWAY MAP (FBFM). A map on which the Federal Emergency
Management Agency (FEMA) has delineated the areas of flood hazards and the
regulatory floodway.
   FLOOD HAZARD BOUNTY MAP (FHBMl). A map on which the boundaries of the flood,
mudslide (i.e., mudflow), and flood-related erosion areas having special
hazards have been designated as Zones A, M, and/or E by the Federal Emergency
Management Agency (FEMA).
   FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (FIRM). A map on which the Federal Emergency
Management Agency (FEMA) has delineated special flood hazard areas and risk
premium zones.
   FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY. The report provided by the Federal Emergency
Management Agency (FEMA) containing flood profiles, the flood insurance rate
map (FIRM), and/or the flood boundary floodway map (FBFM), and the water
surface elevation of the base flood.
   FLOODPLAIN or FLOOD-PRONE AREA. Any land area susceptible to being inundated
by floodwaters from any source.
   FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR. The individual appointed by the community to
administer and enforce the floodplain management ordinances.
   FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT. The operation of an overall program of corrective and
preventive measures for reducing flood damage and preserving and enhancing
natural resources in the floodplain, including but not limited to emergency
preparedness plans, flood control works, floodplain management ordinances, and
open space plans.
   FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT REGULATIONS. This chapter and other zoning ordinances,
subdivision regulations, building codes, health regulations, special purpose
ordinances (such as grading and erosion control), and other applications of
police power, which control development in flood-prone areas. This term
describes federal, state, and/or local regulations, in any combination thereof,
which provide standards for the purpose of flood damage prevention and
reduction.
   FLOOD-PROOFING. Any combination of structural and non-structural additions,
changes, or adjustments to structures which reduce or eliminate flood damage to
real estate or improved real property, water and sanitation facilities,
structures, and their contents.
   FLOOD-PROOFING CERTIFICATE. A certification by a registered professional
engineer or architect, the FEMA form in effect at the time of certification
stating that a non-residential structure, together with attendant utilities and
sanitary facilities is watertight to a specified design elevation with walls
that are substantially impermeable to the passage of water and all structural
components are capable of resisting hydrostatic and hydrodynamic flood forces,
including the effects of buoyancy and anticipated debris impact forces.
   FLOODWAY. The channel of a river or other watercourse and the adjacent land
areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the base flood without
cumulatively increasing the water surface elevation more than one foot. Also
referred to as the REGULATORY FLOODWAY.
   FLOODWAY FRINGE. That area of the floodplain on either side of the
regulatory floodway.
   FRAUD AND VICTIMIZATION. As related in §§
152.60 through
152.64, the variance granted must not cause fraud on or victimization of the
public. In examining this requirement, the City Council will consider the fact
that every newly constructed structure adds to government responsibilities and
remains a part of the community for 50 to 100 years. Structures that are
permitted to be constructed below the base flood elevation are subject during
all those years to increased risk of damage from floods, while future owners of
the property and the community as a whole are subject to all the costs,
inconvenience, danger, and suffering that those increased flood damages may
incur. In addition, future owners may purchase the property, unaware that it is
subject to potential flood damage, and can be insured only at very high flood
insurance rates.
   FREEBOARD. A factor of safety, usually expressed in feet above the BFE,
which is applied for the purposes of floodplain management. It is used to
compensate for the many unknown factors that could contribute to flood heights
greater than those calculated for the base flood. FREEBOARD must be applied not
just to the elevation of the lowest floor or flood-proofing level, but also to
the level of protection provided to all components of the structure, such as
building utilities, HVAC components, and the like.
   FUNCTIONALLY DEPENDENT USE FACILITY. A facility, structure, or other
development, which cannot be used for its intended purpose unless it is located
or carried out in close proximity to water. The term includes only a docking or
port facility necessary for the loading and unloading of cargo or passengers,
shipbuilding, or ship repair. The term does not include long-term storage,
manufacture, sales, or service facilities.
   GOVERNING BODY. The local governing unit (i.e., county or municipality that
is empowered to adopt and implement ordinances to provide for the public
health, safety, and general welfare of its citizenry).
   HAZARD POTENTIAL. The possible adverse incremental consequences that result
from the release of water or stored contents due to failure of a dam or
misoperation of a dam or appurtenances. The HAZARD POTENTIAL classification of
a dam does not reflect in any way the current condition of a dam and its
appurtenant structures (e.g., safety, structural integrity, flood routing
capacity).
   HIGHEST ADJACENT GRADE. The highest natural elevation of the ground surface,
prior to construction, next to the proposed walls of a structure.
   HISTORIC STRUCTURE. Any structure that is:
      (1)   Listed individually in the National Register of Historic Places (a
listing maintained by the Department of Interior) or preliminarily determined
by the Secretary of the Interior as meeting the requirements for individual
listing on the National Register;
      (2)   Certified or preliminarily determined by the Secretary of the
Interior as contributing to the historical significance of a registered
historic district or a district preliminarily determined by the Secretary to
qualify as a registered historic district;
      (3)   Individually listed on a state inventory of historic places in
states with historic preservation programs which have been approved by the
Secretary of the Interior; or
      (4)   Individually listed on a local inventory of historic places in
communities with historic preservation programs that have been certified
either:
         (a)   By an approved state program as determined by the Secretary of
the Interior; or
         (b)   Directly by the Secretary of the Interior in states without
approved programs.
   INCREASED COST OF COMPLIANCE (ICC).
      (1)   Under the standard flood insurance policy the cost to repair a
substantially flood damaged building that exceeds the minimal repair cost and
that is required to bring a substantially damaged building into compliance with
the local flood damage prevention ordinance. Acceptable mitigation
measures are flood-proofing (non-residential), relocation, elevation,
demolition, or any combination thereof.
      (2)   ICC coverage is available on residential and non-residential
buildings (this category includes public or government buildings, such as
schools, libraries, and municipal buildings) insured under the NFIP.
   LETTER OF MAP CHANGE (LOMC). An official FEMA determination, by letter, to
amend or revise effective flood insurance rate maps, flood boundary and
floodway maps, and flood insurance studies. LOMCs include the following
categories:
      (1)   LETTER OF MAP AMENDMENT (LOMA). A revision based on technical data
showing that a property was inadvertently included in a designated SFHA. A LOMA
amends the current effective FIRM and establishes that a specific property is
not located in a SFHA.
      (2)   LETTER OF MAP REVISION (LOMR). A revision based on technical data
that, usually due to human-made changes, shows changes to flood zones, flood
elevations, floodplain, and floodway delineations, and planimetric features.
      (3)   LETTER OF MAP REVISION - BASED ON FILL (LOMR-F). A determination
that a structure or parcel has been elevated by properly placed engineered fill
above the BFE and is therefore excluded from the SHFA.
   LEVEE. A human-made structure, usually an earthen embankment, designed and
constructed in accordance with sound engineering practices to contain, control,
or divert the flow of water so as to provide protection from temporary
flooding.
   LEVEE SYSTEM. A flood protection system that consists of a levee, or levees,
and associated structures, such as closure and drainage devices, which are
constructed and operated in accordance with sound engineering practices.
   LIMITED STORAGE. An area used for storage and intended to be limited to
incidental items which can withstand exposure to the elements and have low
flood damage potential. Such an area must be of flood resistant material, void
of utilities except for essential lighting, and cannot be temperature
controlled.
   LOWEST ADJACENT GRADE. The lowest elevation of the sidewalk, patio, attached
garage, deck support, basement entryway, or grade immediately next to the
structure and after the completion of construction.
   LOWEST FLOOR. The lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area including
basement An unfinished or flood resistant enclosure, usable solely for parking
of vehicles, structure access, or storage in an area other than a basement area
is not considered a structure’s LOWEST FLOOR, provided that such
enclosure is not built so as to render the structure in violation of the
applicable non-elevation design requirements of this chapter.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. A structure, transportable in one or more sections, which
is built on a permanent chassis and is designed to be used with or without a
permanent foundation when connected or attached to the required utilities. The
term also includes park trailers, travel trailers, and similar transportable
structures placed on a site for 180 consecutive days or longer and intended to
be improved property. The term MANUFACTURED HOME does not include a
“recreational vehicle.” (See RECREATIONAL VEHICLE.)
   MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A parcel (or contiguous parcels) of
land divided into two or more manufactured home lots for rent or sale.
   MAP. The flood hazard bounty map (FHBM) or the flood insurance rate map
(FIRM) for a community issued by the Federal Emergency Management Agency
(FEMA).
   MAP PANEL NUMBER. The four-digit number on a flood map, followed by a letter
suffix, assigned by FEMA. The first four digits represent the map panel. The
letter suffix represents the number of times the map panel has been revised.
(The letter “A” is not used by FEMA; the letter “B” is the first revision.)
   MARKET VALUE. The property value (as agreed between a willing buyer and
seller), excluding the value of the land as established by what the local real
estate market will bear. MARKET VALUE of the structure can be established by
independent certified appraisal, replacement cost depreciated by age of
structure (actual cash value), or adjusted assessed values.
   MEAN SEA LEVEL (MSL). The average height of the sea for all stages of the
tide. For the purposes of the National Flood Insurance Program, the MSL is used
as a reference for establishing various elevations within the floodplain as
shown on the community’s FIRM. For purposes of this chapter, the term is
synonymous with either NATIONAL GEODETIC VERTICAL DATUM (NGVD) OF 1929 or NORTH
AMERICAN VERTICAL DATUM (NAVD) OF 1988.
   MITIGATION. Sustained actions taken to reduce or eliminate long-term risk to
people and property from hazards and their effects. The purpose of MITIGATION
is twofold: to protect people and structures and to minimize the costs of
disaster response and recovery.
   MUDSLIDE (i.e., MUDFLOW). Describes a condition where there is a river,
flow, or inundation of liquid mud down a hillside, usually as a result of a
dual condition of loss of brush cover and the subsequent accumulation of water
on the ground, preceded by a period of unusually heavy or sustained rain. A
MUDSLIDE (i.e., MUDFLOW) may occur as a distinct phenomenon while a landslide
is in progress, and will be recognized as such by the Floodplain Administrator
only if the MUDFLOW, and not the landslide, is the proximate cause of damage
that occurs.
   MUDSLIDE (i.e., MUDFLOW) AREA MANAGEMENT. The operation of and overall
program of corrective and preventative measures for reducing mudslide (i.e.,
mudflow) damage, including but not limited to emergency preparedness plans,
mudslide control works, and floodplain management regulations.
   MUDSLIDE (i.e., MUDFLOW) PRONE AREA. An area with land surfaces and slopes
of unconsolidated material where the history, geology, and climate indicate a
potential for mudflow.
   NATIONAL FLOOD INSURANCE PROGRAM (NFIP). The federal program that makes
flood insurance available to owners of property in participating communities
nationwide through the cooperative efforts of the federal government and the
private insurance industry.
   NATIONAL GEODETIC VERTICAL DATUM (NGVD). As corrected in 1929, a vertical
control used as a reference for establishing varying elevations within the
floodplain. (Generally used as the vertical datum on the older FIRMs. Refer to
FIRM legend panel for correct datum.)
   NEW CONSTRUCTION. Structures for which the start of construction commenced
on or after the effective date of a floodplain management regulation adopted by
a community and includes any subsequent improvements to such structures.
   NEW MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed on or after the effective
date of floodplain management regulations adopted by a community.
   NON-RESIDENTIAL. Structures that are not designed for human habitation,
including but is not limited to: small business concerns, churches, schools,
farm structures (including grain bins and silos), pool houses, clubhouses,
recreational structures, mercantile structures, agricultural and industrial
structures, warehouses, and hotels or motels with normal room rentals for less
than six months duration.
   NORTH AMERICAN VERTICAL DATUM (NAVD). As corrected in 1988, a vertical
control used as a reference for establishing varying elevations within the
floodplain. (Generally used on the newer FIRMs and Digitally Referenced FIRMs
(DFIRM).) (Refer to FIRM or DFIRM panel legend for correct datum.)
   OBSTRUCTION. Includes but is not limited to any dam, wall, embankment,
levee, dike, pile, abutment, protection, excavation, channelization, bridge,
conduit, culvert, structure, wire, fence, rock, gravel, refuse, fill,
structure, vegetation, or other material in, along, across or projecting into
any watercourse which may alter, impede, retard, or change the direction and/or
velocity of the flow of water, due to its location, its propensity to snare or
collect debris carried by the flow of water, or its likelihood of being carried
downstream.
   ONE-HUNDRED YEAR FLOOD (100-YEAR FLOOD). (See BASE FLOOD.) The flood that
has a 1% or greater chance of being equaled or exceeded in any given year. Any
flood zone that begins with the letter “A” is subject to inundation by the 100-
year flood. Over the life of a 30-year loan, there is a 26% chance of
experiencing such a flood with the SFHA.
   PARTICIPATING COMMUNITY. A community that voluntarily elects to participate
in the NFIP by adopting and enforcing floodplain management regulations that
are consistent with the standards of the NFIP.
   POST-FIRM CONSTRUCTION. New construction or substantial improvements for
which start of construction occurred after December 31, 1974, or on or after
the effective date of the initial FIRM of the community, whichever is later.
   PRE-FIRM CONSTRUCTION. New construction or substantial improvements for
which start of construction occurred on or before December 31, 1974, or before
the effective date of the initial FIRM of the community, whichever is later.
   PROBATION. A FEMA imposed change in community’s status resulting from
violations and deficiencies in the administration and enforcement of the local
floodplain management regulations.
   PROGRAM DEFICIENCY. A defect in a community’s floodplain management
regulations or administrative procedures that impairs effective implementation
of those floodplain management standards.
   PUBLIC SAFETY AND NUISANCE. Anything which is injurious to safety or health
of an entire community or neighborhood, or any considerable number of persons,
or unlawfully obstructs the free passage or use, in the customary manner, of
any navigable lake, or river, bay, stream, canal, or basin.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. A vehicle that is:
      (1)   Built on a single chassis;
      (2)   Four hundred square feet or less when measured at the largest
horizontal projection;
      (3)   Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable to a light
duty truck; and
      (4)   Designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling but as
temporary living quarters for recreational, camping, travel, or seasonal use.
   REGULAR PROGRAM. The phase of a community’s participation in the NFIP where
more comprehensive floodplain management requirements are imposed and higher
amounts of insurance are available based upon risk zones and flood elevations
determined in the FIS.
   REGULATORY FLOODWAY. The channel of a river or other watercourse and the
adjacent land areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the base flood
without cumulatively increasing the water surface elevation more than one foot.
See BASE FLOOD.
   REMEDY A VIOLATION. The process by which a community brings a structure or
other development into compliance with state or local floodplain management
regulations, or, if this is not possible, to reduce the impact of
noncompliance. Reduced impact may include protecting the structure or other
affected development from flood damages, implementing the enforcement
provisions of the ordinance or otherwise deterring future similar violations,
or reducing state or federal financing exposure with regard to the structure or
other development.
   REPAIR. The reconstruction or renewal of any part of an existing structure.
   REPETITIVE LOSS. Flood-related damages sustained by a structure on two
separate occasions during a ten-year period for which the cost of repairs at
the time of each such flood event, on average, equals or exceeds 25% of the
market value of the structure before the damage occurred.
   REPETITIVE LOSS PROPERTY. Any insurable building for which two or more
claims of more than $1,000 were paid by the National Flood Insurance Program
(NFIP) within any rolling ten-year period, since 1978. At least two of the
claims must be more than ten days apart but, within ten years of each other. A
RL PROPERTY may or may not be currently insured by the NFIP.
   RIVERINE. Relating to, formed by, or resembling a river (including
tributaries), stream, brook, and the like.
   SECTION 1316. That section of the National Flood Insurance Act of 1968,
being 44 C.F.R. part 73, as amended, which states that no new or renewal flood
insurance coverage shall be provided for any property that the Administrator
finds has been declared by a duly constituted state or local zoning authority
or other authorized public body to be in violation of state or local laws,
regulations, or ordinances that are intended to discourage or otherwise
restrict land development or occupancy in flood-prone areas.
   SEVERE REPETITIVE LOSS STRUCTURE.
      (1)   Any insured property that has met at least one of the following
paid flood loss criteria since 1978, regardless of ownership:
         (a)   Four or more separate claim payments of more than $5,000 each
(including building and contents payments); or
         (b)   Two or more separate claim payments (building payments only)
where the total of the payments exceeds the current market value of the
property.
      (2)   In either case, two of the claim payments must have occurred within
ten years of each other. Multiple losses at the same location within ten days
of each other are counted as one loss, with the payment amounts added together.
   SHEET FLOW AREA. See AREA OF SHALLOW FLOODING.
   SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA (SFHA). The portion of the floodplain subject to
inundation by the base flood and/or flood-related erosion hazards as shown on a
FHBM or FIRM as Zone A, AE, A1-A30, AH, AO, or AR.
   START OF CONSTRUCTION (Includes SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT and OTHER PROPOSED
NEW DEVELOPMENT). The date a building permit is issued, provided the actual
start of construction, repair, reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition
placement, or other improvement is within 180 days of the permit date. The
actual START means the first placement of permanent construction of a structure
(including manufactured home) on a site, such as the pouring of slabs or
footings, the installation of piles, construction of columns, or any work
beyond the stage of excavation; or the placement of a manufactured home on a
foundation. Permanent construction does not include land preparation, such as
clearing, grading, and filling; nor does it include the installation of streets
and/or walkways; nor does it include excavation for a basement, footings,
piers, or foundations or the erection of temporary forms; the installation on
the property of accessory structures, such as garages or sheds not occupied as
dwelling units or not part of the main structure. For a substantial
improvement, the actual START OF CONSTRUCTION means the first alteration of any
wall, ceiling, floor, or other structural part of a building, whether or not
that alteration affects the external dimensions of the structure.
   STRUCTURE. A walled and roofed building, including gas or liquid storage
tank that is principally above ground, as well as a manufactured home.
   SUBDIVISION. Any division, for the purposes of sale, lease, or development,
either on the installment plan or upon any and all other plans, terms and
conditions, of any tract or parcel of land into two or more lots or parcels.
   SUBROGATION. A legal action brought by FEMA to recover insurance money paid
out where all or part of the damage can be attributed to acts or omissions by a
community or other third party.
   SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE. Damage of any origin sustained by a structure whereby
the cost of restoring the structure to its before-damaged condition would equal
or exceed 50% of the market value of the structure before the damage occurred.
   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT. Any reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition, or
other improvement of a structure, taking place during a one-year period in
which the cumulative percentage of improvements equals or exceeds 50% of the
market value of the structure before the “start of
construction” of the improvement. This term includes structures which have
incurred “substantial damage”, regardless of the actual repair work performed.
The term does not, however, include either:
      (1)   Any project for improvement of a structure to correct existing
violations of state or local health, sanitary, or safety code specifications
which have been identified by the local Code Enforcement Official and which are
the minimum necessary to assure safe living conditions; or
      (2)   Any alteration of a “historic structure” provided that the
alteration will not preclude the structure’s continued designation as a
“historic structure.”
   SUBSTANTIALLY IMPROVED EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARKS, OR SUBDIVISIONS.
Repair, reconstruction, rehabilitation, or improvement of the streets,
utilities, and pads equaling or exceeding 50% of the value of the streets,
utilities, and pads before the repair, reconstruction, or improvement
commenced.
   SUSPENSION. Removal of a participating community from the NFIP for failure
to enact and/or enforce floodplain management regulations required for
participation in the NFIP.
   UTILITIES. Include, but not limited to, electrical, heating, ventilation,
plumbing, and air conditioning equipment that service the structure and the
site.
   VARIANCE. Relief from some or all of the requirements of this chapter.
   VIOLATION. Failure of a structure or other development to fully comply with
this chapter. A structure or other development without the elevation
certificate, other certifications, or other evidence of compliance required in
this chapter is presumed to be in VIOLATION until such time as that
documentation is provided.
   WATER SURFACE ELEVATION. The height, in relation to the National Geodetic
Vertical Datum (NGVD) of 1929, (or other datum, where specified) of floods of
various magnitudes and frequencies in the floodplains of coastal or riverine
areas.
   WATERCOURSE. A lake, river, creek, stream, wash, channel, or other
topographic feature on or over which water flows at least periodically.
   WATERSHED. All the area within a geographic boundary from which water,
sediments, dissolved materials, and other transportable materials drain or are
carried by water to a common outlet, such as a point on a larger stream, lake,
or underlying aquifer.
   X (SHADED) AND B ZONES. Areas of the 0.2% annual chance (500-year) flood
that are outside of the SFHA, areas subject to the 100-year flood with average
depths of less than one foot or with contributing drainage area less than one
square mile, and areas protected by levees from the base flood
   X (UN-SHADED) AND C ZONES. Areas determined to be outside the 500-year
floodplain.
   ZONE. A geographical area shown on a flood hazard bounty map or a flood
insurance rate map that reflects the severity or type of flooding in the area.
(Ord. 4 of 2013 Series, passed 7-16-2013)
§ 152.06 LANDS TO WHICH THIS CHAPTER APPLIES.
   This chapter shall apply to all special flood hazard areas (SFHA), areas
applicable to KRS 151.250 and as determined by the Floodplain Administrator or
other delegated, designated, or qualified community official as determined by
the City Council from available technical studies historical information, and
other available and reliable sources, areas within the jurisdiction of the City
Council which may be subject to periodic inundation by floodwaters that can
adversely affect the public health, safety, and general welfare of the citizens
the city.
(Ord. 4 of 2013 Series, passed 7-16-2013)
§ 152.07 BASIS FOR ESTABLISHING THE SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREAS.
   (A)   The areas of special flood hazard identified by the Federal Emergency
Management Agency (FEMA) in the flood insurance study (FlS) for the county,
dated August 5, 2013, with the accompanying flood insurance rate maps (FIRMS),
other supporting data and any subsequent amendments hereto, are hereby adopted
by reference and declared to be a part of these regulations by the city, and
for those land areas acquired by the city through annexation.
   (B)   This FIS and attendant mapping is the minimum area of applicability of
this chapter and may be supplemented by studies for other areas which allow
implementation of this chapter and which are recommended to the City Council by
the Floodplain Administrator and are enacted by City Council pursuant to
statutes governing land use management regulations. The FIS and/or FIRM are
permanent records of the city and are on file and available for review by the
public during regular business hours at the office of the City Clerk.
(Ord. 4 of 2013 Series, passed 7-16-2013)
§ 152.08 DEVELOPMENT PERMIT.
   (A)   A development permit shall be required in conformance with the
provision of this chapter prior to the commencement of any development
activities in the special flood hazard areas (SFMA). See §
152.26 for instructions and explanation.
   (B)   Application for a development permit shall be made on forms furnished
by the Floodplain Administrator.
(Ord. 4 of 2013 Series, passed 7-16-2013)
§ 152.09 COMPLIANCE.
   No structure or land shall hereafter be constructed, located, extended,
convened, or structurally altered without full compliance with the terms of
this chapter and other applicable state regulations. Violation of these
requirements (including violations of conditions and safeguards established in
connection with conditions) shall constitute a misdemeanor. Nothing herein
shall prevent the City Council from taking such lawful action as is necessary
to prevent or remedy any violation.
(Ord. 4 of 2013 Series, passed 7-16-2013) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.10 ABROGATION AND GREATER RESTRICTIONS.
   This chapter is not intended to repeal, abrogate, or impair any existing
easements, covenants, or deed restrictions. However, where this chapter and
another ordinance, easement, covenant, or deed restriction conflict or overlap,
whichever imposes the more stringent restrictions shall prevail.
(Ord. 4 of 2013 Series, passed 7-16-2013)
§ 152.11 INTERPRETATION.
   In the interpretation and application of this chapter, all provisions shall
be:
   (A)   Considered minimum requirements;
   (B)   Liberally construed in favor of the governing body; and
   (C)   Deemed neither to limit nor repeal any other powers granted under
state statutes.
(Ord. 4 of 2013 Series, passed 7-16-2013)
§ 152.12 WARNING AND DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY.
   The degree of flood protection required by this chapter is considered
reasonable for regulatory purposes and is based on scientific and engineering
considerations. Larger floods can and will occur on rare occasions. Flood
heights may be increased by human-made or natural causes. This chapter does not
imply that land outside the areas of special flood hazard or uses permitted
within such areas will be free from flooding or flood damage. This chapter
shall not create liability on the part of the City Council, any officer or
employee, thereof for any flood damages that result from reliance on this
chapter or any administrative decision lawfully made hereunder.
(Ord. 4 of 2013 Series, passed 7-16-2013)
§ 152.13 ENFORCEMENT AND VIOLATION NOTICE.
   (A)   Civil offense. If, at any time, development occurs which is not in
accordance with the provisions of this chapter including obtaining or complying
with the terms and conditions of a floodplain development permit and any
approved modifications, such development shall constitute a civil offense.
   (B)   Notice of violation. If, at any time, a duly authorized employee or
agent of the Floodplain Administrator has reasonable cause to believe that a
person has caused development to occur which is not in accordance with the
provisions of this chapter including obtaining or complying with the terms and
conditions of a floodplain development permit and any approved modifications
thereof, a duly authorized employee of the Floodplain Administrator shall issue
a notice to the person responsible for the violation and/or the property owner,
stating the facts of the offense or violation, the section of this chapter and/
or of the permit violated, when it occurred, how the violation is to be
remedied to bring the development into conformity with this chapter or with the
approved permit, and within what period of time the remedy is to occur, which
period of time shall be reasonable and shall be determined by the nature of the
violation and whether or not it creates a nuisance or hazard. The remedy may
include an order to stop-work on the development. The notice shall also state
that a citation may be forthcoming in the event that the requested remedies and
corrective actions are not taken, which citation will request a civil monetary
fine and shall state the maximum fine which could be imposed. See §
152.99.
   (C)   Notice of citation. If, at any time, a duly authorized employee or
agent of the Floodplain Administrator has reasonable cause to believe that a
person has caused development to occur which is not in accordance with the
provisions of this chapter including obtaining or complying with the terms and
conditions of a floodplain development permit and any approved modifications
thereof, a duly authorized employee of the Floodplain Administrator may issue a
citation to the offender stating the violation, prior notices of violation
issued, how the violation is to be remedied to bring the development into
conformity with this chapter or with the approved permit, and within what
period of time the remedy is to occur, and what penalty or penalties are
recommended. When a citation is issued, the person to whom the citation is
issued shall respond to the citation within seven days of the date the citation
is issued by either carrying out the remedies and corrections set forth in the
citation, paying the civil fine set forth in the citation or requesting a
hearing before the governing body. If the person to whom the citation is issued
does not respond to the citation within seven days, that person shall be deemed
to have waived the right to a hearing and the determination that a violation
occurred shall be considered final.
(Ord. 4 of 2013 Series, passed 7-16-2013) Penalty, see §
152.99
ADMINISTRATION
§ 152.25 DESIGNATION OF LOCAL ADMINISTRATOR.
   The City Council hereby appoints the Mayor to administer, implement, and
enforce the provisions of this chapter by granting or denying development
permits in accordance with its provisions, and is herein referred to as the
Floodplain Administrator.
(Ord. 4 of 2013 Series, passed 7-16-2013)
§ 152.26 ESTABLISHMENT OF DEVELOPMENT PERMIT.
   (A)   A development permit shall be obtained before any construction or
other development begins within any special flood hazard area established in §
152.07. Application for a development permit shall be made on forms furnished
by Floodplain Administrator prior to any development activities, and may
include, but not be limited to, plans in duplicate drawn to scale showing the
nature, location, dimensions, and elevations of the area in question; existing
or proposed structures, fill, storage of materials, drainage facilities, and
the location of the foregoing. Endorsement of Floodplain Administrator is
required before a state floodplain construction permit can be processed.
   (B)   Specifically, the following information is required.
      (1)   Application stage.
         (a)   Proposed elevation in relation to mean sea level (MSL) of the
proposed lowest floor (including basement) of all structures in Zone A and
elevation of highest adjacent grade;
         (b)   Proposed elevation in relation to mean sea level to which any
non-residential structure will be flood-proofed;
         (c)   All appropriate certifications from a registered professional
engineer or architect that the non-residential flood-proofed structure will
meet the flood-proofing criteria in §§
152.41(B) and 152.43(B); and
         (d)   Description of the extent to which any watercourse will be
altered or relocated as a result of proposed development.
      (2)   Construction stage.
         (a)   Upon placement of the lowest floor, and before construction
continues, or flood-proofing by whatever construction means, it shall be the
duty of the permit holder to submit to the Floodplain Administrator and to the
state a certification of the elevation of the lowest floor or
flood-proofed elevation, as built, in relation to mean sea level. In AE, A1-30,
AH, and A Zones where the community has adopted a regulatory base flood
elevation, said certification shall be prepared by or under the direct
supervision of a registered land surveyor or professional engineer and
certified by same.
         (b)   When flood-proofing is utilized for a particular structure, said
certification shall be prepared by or under the direct supervision of a
certified professional engineer or architect. Any continued work undertaken
prior to the submission of the certification shall be at the permit holder’s
risk. The Floodplain Administrator shall review the lowest floor and flood-
proofing elevation survey data submitted. Deficiencies detected by such review
shall be corrected by the permit holder immediately and prior to further
progressive work being permitted to proceed. Failure to submit the survey or
failure to make said corrections required hereby shall be cause to issue a
stop-work order for the project.
(Ord. 4 of 2013 Series, passed 7-16-2013)
§ 152.27 DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE LOCAL ADMINISTRATOR.
   (A)   The Floodplain Administrator and/or his or her staff is hereby
appointed, authorized, and directed to administer, implement, and enforce the
provisions of this chapter. The Floodplain Administrator is further authorized
to render interpretations of this chapter, which are consistent with its spirit
and purpose by granting or denying development permits in accordance with its
provisions.
   (B)   The duties and responsibilities of the Floodplain Administrator shall
include, but not be limited to the following:
      (1)   Permit review. Review all development permits to ensure that:
         (a)   Permit requirements of this chapter have been satisfied;
         (b)   All other required state and federal permits have been obtained:
review proposed development to assure that all necessary permits have been
received from those governmental agencies from which approval is required by
federal or state law, including § 404 of the Federal Water Pollution Control
Act Amendments of 1972, 33 U.S.C. § 1334;
         (c)   Flood damages will be reduced in the best possible manner; and
         (d)   The proposed development does not adversely affect the carrying
capacity of affected watercourses. For purposes of this chapter, ADVERSELY
AFFECTS means that the cumulative effect of the proposed development when
combined with all other existing and anticipated development will increase the
water surface elevation of the base flood more than one foot at any point.
      (2)   Review and use of any other base flood data. When base flood
elevation data has not been provided in accordance with §
152.07, the Floodplain Administrator shall obtain, review, and reasonably
utilize any base flood elevation and floodway data available from a federal or
state agency, or other
source, in order to administer the provisions of §§
152.40 through
152.46. Any such information shall be submitted to the City Council for
adoption.
      (3)   Notification of other agencies.
         (a)   Notify adjacent communities, the Kentucky Division of Water, and
any other federal and/or state agencies with statutory or regulatory authority
prior to any alteration or relocation of the watercourse;
         (b)   Submit evidence of such notification to the Federal Emergency
Management Agency (FEMA); and
         (c)   Assure that the flood-carrying capacity within the altered or
relocated portion of said watercourse is maintained.
      (4)   Documentation of floodplain development. Obtain and maintain for
public inspection and make available as needed the following:
         (a)   Certification required by §
152.41(A) (lowest floor elevations) as shown on an accurately completed and
certified elevation certificate. Verify and record the actual elevation (in
relation to mean sea level) of the lowest floor (including basement) of all new
and substantially improved structures, in accordance with §
152.26(B);
         (b)   Certification required by §
152.41(B) (elevation or flood-proofing of non-residential structures) as shown
on an accurately completed and certified FEMA flood-proofing certificate.
Verify and record the actual elevation (in relation to mean sea level) to which
the new and substantially improved structures have been flood-proofed, in
accordance with §
152.26(B);
         (c)   Certification required by §
152.41(C) (elevated structures);
         (d)   Certification of elevation required by §
152.44(A) (subdivision standards);
         (e)   Certification required by §
152.41(E) (floodway encroachments);
         (f)   Assure that maintenance is provided within the altered or
relocated portion of said watercourse so that the flood-carrying capacity is
maintained;
         (g)   Review certified plans and specifications for compliance; and
         (h)   Remedial action; take action to remedy violations of this
chapter as specified in §
152.13.
      (5)   Map determinations. Make interpretations where needed, as to the
exact location of the boundaries of the special flood hazard areas, for
example, where there appears to be a conflict between a mapped boundary and
actual field conditions.
         (a)   Where interpretation is needed as to the exact location of
boundaries of the areas of special flood hazard (for example, where there
appears to be a conflict between a mapped boundary and actual field
conditions), the Floodplain Administrator shall make the necessary
interpretation. The person contesting the location of the boundary shall be
given a reasonable opportunity to appeal the interpretation as provided in §
152.61;
         (b)   When base flood elevation data and floodway data have not been
provided in accordance with §
152.07, then the Floodplain Administrator shall obtain, review, and reasonably
utilize any base flood elevation and floodway data available from a federal,
state, or other source, in order to administer the provisions of §§
152.40 through
152.46;
         (c)   When flood-proofing is utilized for a particular structure, the
Floodplain Administrator shall obtain certification from a registered
professional engineer or architect, in accordance with §
152.41(B) a flood-proofing certificate; and
         (d)   All records pertaining to the provisions of this chapter shall
be maintained in the office of the Floodplain Administrator and shall be open
for public inspection.
      (6)   Right of entry.
         (a)   Whenever necessary to make an inspection to enforce any of the
provisions of this chapter, or whenever the Floodplain Administrator has
reasonable cause to believe that there exists in any structure or upon any
premises any condition or ordinance violation which makes such building,
structure, or premises unsafe, dangerous, or hazardous, the Floodplain
Administrator may enter such building, structure, or premises at all reasonable
times to inspect the same or perform any duty imposed upon the Floodplain
Administrator by this chapter.
         (b)   If such structure or premises are occupied, the Floodplain
Administrator shall first present proper credentials and request entry. If such
building, structure, or premises are unoccupied, he or she shall first make a
reasonable effort to locate the owner or other persons having charge or control
of such request entry.
         (c)   If entry is refused, the Floodplain Administrator shall have
recourse to every remedy provided by law to secure entry.
         (d)   When the Floodplain Administrator shall have first obtained a
proper inspection warrant or other remedy provided by law to secure entry, no
owner or occupant or any other persons having charge, care or control of any
building, structure, or premises shall fail or neglect, after proper request is
made as herein provided, to promptly permit entry therein by the Floodplain
Administrator for the purpose of inspection and examination pursuant to this
chapter.
      (7)   Stop-work orders. Upon notice from the Floodplain Administrator,
work on any building, structure, or premises that is being done contrary to the
provisions of this chapter shall immediately cease. Such notice shall be in
writing and shall be given to the owner of the property, to his or her agent,
or to the person performing the work, and shall state the conditions under
which work may be resumed.
      (8)   Revocation of permits.
         (a)   The Floodplain Administrator may revoke a permit or approval,
issued under the provisions of this chapter, in case there has been any false
statement or misrepresentation as to the material fact in the application or
plans on which the permit or approval was based.
         (b)   The Floodplain Administrator may revoke a permit upon
determination that the construction, erection, alteration, repair, moving,
demolition, installation, or replacement of the structure for which the permit
was issued is in violation of, or not in conformity with, the provisions of
this chapter.
      (9)   Liability. Any officer, employee, or member of the Floodplain
Administrator’s staff, charged with the enforcement of this chapter, acting for
the applicable governing authority in the discharge of his or her duties, shall
not thereby render personally liable, and is hereby relieved from all personal
liability, for any damage that may accrue to persons or property as a result of
any act required or permitted in the discharge of his or her duties. Any suit
brought against any officer, employee, or member because of such act performed
by him or her in the enforcement of any provision of this chapter shall be
defended by the department of law until the final termination of the
proceedings.
      (10)   Expiration of floodplain construction permit. A floodplain
development permit, and all provisions contained therein, shall expire if the
“start of construction” has not occurred within 180 calendar days from the date
of its issuance.
(Ord. 4 of 2013 Series, passed 7-16-2013)
FLOOD HAZARD REDUCTION
§ 152.40 GENERAL CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS.
   In all special flood hazard areas, the following provisions are required.
   (A)   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be adequately
anchored to prevent flotation, collapse, and lateral movement of the structure
resulting from hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads, including the effects of
buoyancy.
   (B)   Manufactured homes shall be anchored to prevent flotation, collapse,
and lateral movement. Methods of anchoring may include, but are not limited to,
use of over-the-top or frame ties to ground anchors. This standard shall be in
addition to and consistent with applicable state requirements for resisting
wind forces.
   (C)   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be constructed
with materials and utility equipment resistant to flood damage.
   (D)   New construction and substantial improvements shall be constructed by
methods and practices that minimize flood damage.
   (E)   Electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing, air condition equipment,
and other service facilities shall be designed and/or located so as to prevent
water from entering or accumulating within the components during conditions of
flooding; and if
   (F)   Within Zones AH or AO, so that there are adequate drainage paths
around structures on slopes to guide floodwaters around and away from proposed
structures.
   (G)   New and replacement water supply systems shall be designed to minimize
or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters into the system.
   (H)   New and replacement sanitary sewage systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters into the systems and
discharges from the systems into floodwaters.
      (1)   On-site waste disposal systems shall be located and constructed to
avoid impairment to them or contamination from them during flooding.
      (2)   Any alteration, repair, reconstruction, or improvements to a
structure, which is not in compliance with the provisions of this chapter shall
meet the requirements of “new construction” as contained in this chapter.
      (3)   Any alteration, repair, reconstruction, or improvements to a
structure, which is not in compliance with the provisions of this chapter,
shall be undertaken only if said nonconformity is not furthered, extended, or
replaced.
(Ord. 4 of 2013 Series, passed 7-16-2013)
§ 152.41 SPECIFIC STANDARDS.
   In all special flood hazard areas where base flood elevation data have been
provided, as set forth in §
152.07, the following provisions are required.
   (A)   Residential construction. New construction and substantial improvement
of any residential structure (including manufactured home) shall have the
lowest floor, including basement, mechanical equipment, and ductwork elevated
no lower than two feet above the base flood elevation. Should solid foundation
perimeter walls be used to elevate a structure, openings sufficient to
facilitate automatic equalization of hydrostatic flood forces on walls shall be
provided in accordance with standards of division (C) below.
      (1)   In an AO Zone, the lowest floor shall be elevated above the highest
adjacent grade to a height equal to or higher than the depth number specified
in feet on the FIRM, or elevated at least two feet above the highest adjacent
grade if no depth number is specified.
      (2)   In an A Zone, where no technical data has been produced by the
Federal Emergency Management Agency, the Floodplain Administrator will
determine the method by which base flood elevations are determined. Methods
include, but are not limited to, detailed hydrologic and hydraulic analyses,
use of existing data available from other sources, approximate methods, use of
historical data, and best supportable and reasonable judgment in the event no
data can be produced. The lowest floor shall be elevated no lower than two feet
above such base flood elevation. Title 401 KAR (Kentucky Administrative
Regulations) Chapter 4, Regulation 060, § 5(5)a, states as a part of the
technical requirements for a state floodplain permit: The application shall
provide cross sections for determining floodway boundaries (and thereby base
flood elevations) at any proposed construction site where FEMA maps are not
available. All cross sections shall be referenced to mean sea level and shall
have vertical error tolerances of no more than + five-tenths (0.5) foot. Cross
sections elevations shall be taken at those points which represent significant
breaks in slope and at points where hydraulic characteristics of the base
floodplain change. Each cross section shall extend across the entire base
floodplain and shall be in the number and at the locations specified by the
cabinet. If necessary to ensure that significant flood damage will not occur,
the cabinet may require additional cross sections or specific site elevations
which extend beyond those needed for making routine regulatory floodway
boundary calculations.
      (3)   (a)   In all other zones, elevated two feet above the base flood
elevation.
         (b)   Upon the completion of the structure, the elevation of the
lowest floor (including basement) shall be certified by a registered
professional engineer or surveyor, and verified by the community building
inspection department to be properly elevated. Such certification and
verification shall be provided to the Floodplain Administrator.
   (B)   Non-residential construction.
      (1)   New construction and substantial improvement of any commercial,
industrial, or non-residential structure (including manufactured homes for non-
residential purposes) shall be elevated to conform with division (A) above or
together with attendant utility and sanitary facilities:
         (a)   Be flood-proofed to an elevation two feet above the level of the
base flood elevation so that the structure is watertight with walls
substantially impermeable to the passage of water;
         (b)   Have structural components capable of resisting hydrostatic and
hydrodynamic loads and effects of buoyancy and debris; and
         (c)   A registered professional engineer or architect shall certify
that the standards of this subsection are satisfied. Such certification along
with the design and operational maintenance plans shall be provided to the
Floodplain Administrator.
      (2)   Manufactured homes shall meet the standards in division (D) below.
      (3)   All new construction and substantial improvement with fully
enclosed areas below the lowest floor (including basements) that are usable
solely for parking of vehicles, building access or storage, and which are
subject to flooding, shall be constructed of flood resistant materials to an
elevation two feet above the base flood elevation, and, shall be designed to
automatically equalize hydrostatic flood forces on exterior walls by allowing
for the entry and exit of floodwater. Openings for meeting this requirement
must meet or exceed the standards of division (C) below.
   (C)   Elevated structures. New construction and substantial improvements of
elevated structures on columns, posts, or pilings that include fully enclosed
areas formed by foundation and other exterior walls below the lowest floor
shall be designed to preclude finished living space and designed to allow for
the entry and exit of floodwaters to automatically equalize hydrostatic flood
forces on exterior walls.
      (1)   Openings for complying with this requirement must either be
certified by a professional engineer or architect or meet the following minimum
criteria:
         (a)   Provide a minimum of two openings having a total net area of not
less than one square inch for every square foot of enclosed area subject to
flooding;
         (b)   The bottom of all openings shall be no higher than one foot
above foundation interior grade (which must be equal to in elevation or higher
than the exterior foundation grade); and
         (c)   Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, valves, or other
coverings or devices provided they permit the automatic flow of floodwaters in
both directions.
      (2)   Access to the enclosed area shall be the minimum necessary to allow
for parking of vehicles (garage door), limited storage of maintenance equipment
used in connection with the premises (standard exterior door), or entry to the
living area (stairway or elevator); and
      (3)   The interior portion of such enclosed areas shall not be finished
or partitioned into separate rooms.
   (D)   Standards for manufactured homes and recreational vehicles.
      (1)   (a)   All new and substantially improved manufactured homes placed
on sites located within A, A1-30, AO, AH, and AE on the community’s flood
insurance rate map (FIRM) must meet all the requirements for new construction,
including elevation and anchoring. Locations include:
            1.   On individual lots or parcels;
            2.   In expansions to existing manufactured home parks or
subdivisions;
            3.   In new manufactured home parks or subdivisions;
            4.   In substantially improved manufactured home parks or
subdivisions;
            5.   Outside of a manufactured home park or subdivision; and
            6.   In an existing manufactured home park or subdivision on a site
upon which a manufactured home has incurred “substantial damage” as the result
of a flood.
         (b)   All such manufactured homes must be:
            1.   Elevated on a permanent foundation;
            2.   Have its lowest floor elevated no lower than two feet above
the level of the base flood elevation; and
            3.   Be securely anchored to an adequately anchored foundation
system to resist flotation, collapse, and lateral movement.
      (2)   Except manufactured homes that have incurred substantial damage as
a result of a flood, all manufactured homes placed or substantially improved in
an existing manufactured home park or subdivision must be elevated so that the
manufactured home is securely anchored to an adequately anchored foundation
system to resist flotation, collapse, and lateral movement, so that either:
         (a)   The lowest floor of the manufactured home is elevated no lower
than two feet above the base flood elevation; or
         (b)   The manufactured home chassis is supported by reinforced piers
or other foundation elements of at least an equivalent strength, of no less
than 36 inches in height above the highest adjacent grade.
      (3)   (a)   All recreational vehicles placed on sites located within A,
A1-30, AO, AH, and AE on the community’s flood insurance rate map (FIRM) must
either:
            1.   Be on the site for fewer than 180 consecutive days;
            2.   Be fully licensed and ready for highway use; or
            3.   Meet the permit requirements for new construction of this
chapter, including anchoring and elevation requirements for “manufactured
homes.”
         (b)   A recreational vehicle is ready for highway use if it is
licensed and insured in accordance with the state motor vehicle regulations, is
on its wheels or jacking system, is attached to the site only by quick
disconnect type utilities and security devices, and has no permanently attached
additions.
   (E)   Floodways. Located within areas of special flood hazard established in
§
152.07, are areas designated as floodways. Since the floodway is an extremely
hazardous area due to the velocity of floodwaters which carry debris, potential
projectiles, and has erosion potential, the following provisions shall apply:
      (1)   Prohibit encroachments, including fill, new construction,
substantial improvements, and other developments unless certification (with
supporting technical data) by a registered professional engineer is provided
demonstrating that encroachments shall not result in any increase in the base
flood elevation levels during occurrence of base flood discharge; and
      (2)   If the provisions of this division (E) are satisfied, all new
construction and substantial improvements and other proposed new development
shall comply with all applicable flood hazard reduction provisions of §§
152.40 through
152.46.
(Ord. 4 of 2013 Series, passed 7-16-2013)
§ 152.42 STANDARDS FOR STREAMS WITHOUT ESTABLISHED BASE FLOOD ELEVATION AND/OR
FLOODWAYS.
   Located within the special flood hazard areas established in §
152.07, where streams exist but where no base flood data has been provided or
where base flood data has been provided without floodways, the following
provisions apply:
   (A)   No encroachments, including fill material or structures shall be
located within special flood hazard areas, unless certification by a registered
professional engineer is provided demonstrating that
the cumulative effect of the proposed development, when combined with all other
existing and anticipated development will not increase the water surface
elevation of the base flood more than one foot at any point within the
community. The engineering certification should be supported by technical data
that conforms to standard hydraulic engineering principles.
   (B)   New construction and substantial improvements of structures shall be
elevated or flood-proofed to elevations established in accordance with §
152.07.
(Ord. 4 of 2013 Series, passed 7-16-2013)
§ 152.43 STANDARDS FOR SHALLOW FLOODING ZONES.
   (A)   Located within the special flood hazard areas established in §
152.07 are areas designated as shallow flooding areas.
   (B)   These areas have flood hazards associated with base flood depths of
one to three feet, where a clearly defined channel does not exist and the water
path of flooding is unpredictable and indeterminate; therefore, the following
provisions apply:
      (1)   All new construction and substantial improvements of residential
structures shall:
         (a)   Have the lowest floor, including basement, elevated to or above
either the base flood elevation or in Zone AO the flood depth specified on the
flood insurance rate map above the highest adjacent grade; and
         (b)   In Zone AO, if no flood depth is specified, the lowest floor,
including basement, shall be elevated no less than two feet above the highest
adjacent grade.
      (2)   All new construction and substantial improvements of non-
residential structures shall:
         (a)   Have the lowest floor, including basement, elevated to or above
either the base flood elevation or in Zone AO the flood depth specified on the
flood insurance rate map, above the highest adjacent grade;
         (b)   In Zone AO, if no flood depth is specified, the lowest floor,
including basement, shall be elevated no less than two feet above the highest
adjacent grade; and
         (c)   Together with attendant utility and sanitary facilities be
completely flood-proofed either to the base flood elevation or above or, in
Zone AO, to or above the specified flood depth plus a minimum of one foot so
that any space below that level is watertight with walls substantially
impermeable to the passage of water and with structural components having the
capability of resisting hydrostatic and hydrodynamic loads and effects of
buoyancy. Certification is required as stated in §
152.41(B).
(Ord. 4 of 2013 Series, passed 7-16-2013)
§ 152.44 STANDARDS FOR SUBDIVISION PROPOSALS.
   (A)   All subdivision proposals shall identify the flood hazard area and the
elevation of the base flood and be consistent with the need to minimize flood
damage.
   (B)   All subdivision proposals shall have public utilities and facilities
such as sewer, gas, electrical, and water systems located and constructed to
minimize flood damage.
   (C)   All subdivision proposals shall identify the flood hazard area and the
elevation of the base flood and be consistent with the need to minimize flood
damage.
   (D)   In areas where base flood elevation and floodway data is not
available, base flood elevation and floodway data for subdivision proposals and
other proposed development (including manufactured home parks and subdivisions)
greater than 50 lots or five acres, whichever is the lesser, shall be provided.
   (E)   All subdivision plans will include the elevation of proposed structure
(s) and lowest adjacent grade. If the site is filled above the base flood
elevation, the lowest floor and lowest adjacent grade elevations shall be
certified by a registered professional engineer or surveyor and provided to the
Floodplain Administrator.
(Ord. 4 of 2013 Series, passed 7-16-2013)
§ 152.45 STANDARDS FOR ACCESSORY STRUCTURES IN ALL ZONES BEGINNING WITH THE
LETTER “A”.
   For all accessory structures in special flood hazard areas designated “A,”
the following provisions shall apply:
   (A)   Must be non-habitable;
   (B)   Must be anchored to resist floatation and lateral movement;
   (C)   Must be provided with flood openings in accordance with the standards
of §
152.41(C);
   (D)   Must be built of flood resistant materials to two feet above the base
flood elevation;
   (E)   Must elevate utilities two feet above the base flood elevation;
   (F)   Can only be used for storage or parking; and
   (G)   Must not be modified for a different use after permitting.
(Ord. 4 of 2013 Series, passed 7-16-2013)
§ 152.46 CRITICAL FACILITIES.
   Construction of new critical facilities shall be, to the extent possible,
located outside the limits of the SFHA (100-year floodplain). Construction of
new critical facilities shall not be permissible within the floodway; however,
they may be permissible within the SFHA if no feasible alternative site is
available. Critical facilities constructed within the SFHA shall have the
lowest floor elevated one foot or more above the base flood elevation at the
site. Flood-proofing and sealing measures must be taken to ensure that toxic
substances will not be displaced by or released into floodwaters. Access routes
elevated to or above the level of the base flood elevation shall be provided to
all critical facilities to the extent possible.
(Ord. 4 of 2013 Series, passed 7-16-2013)
APPEALS AND VARIANCE PROCEDURE
§ 152.60 NATURE OF VARIATION.
   (A)   (1)   The variance criteria set forth in this section are based on the
general principles of zoning law that variances pertain to a piece of property
and are not personal in nature. A variance may be granted for a parcel of
property with physical characteristics so unusual that complying with the
requirements of this chapter would create an exceptional hardship to the
applicant or the surrounding property owners.
      (2)   The characteristics must be unique to the property and not be
shared by adjacent parcels. The unique characteristic must pertain to the land
itself, not to the structure, its inhabitants, or the property owners.
   (B)   (1)   It is the duty of the City Council to help protect its citizens
from flooding. This need is so compelling and the implications of the cost of
insuring a structure built below flood level is so serious that variances from
the flood elevation or from other requirements in this chapter are quite rare.
      (2)   The long-term goal of preventing and reducing flood loss and damage
can only be met if variances are strictly limited. Therefore, the variance
guidelines provided in this chapter are more detailed and contain multiple
provisions that must be met before a variance can be properly granted.
      (3)   The criteria are designed to screen out those situations in which
alternatives other than a variance are more appropriate.
(Ord. 4 of 2013 Series, passed 7-16-2013)
§ 152.61 DESIGNATION OF VARIANCE AND APPEALS BOARD.
   The City Council shall establish a Variance and Appeals Board consisting of
the City Building Inspector and two members of the City Council as designated
by the Mayor.
(Ord. 4 of 2013 Series, passed 7-16-2013)
§ 152.62 DUTIES OF VARIANCE AND APPEALS BOARD.
   (A)   The Variance and Appeals Board shall hear and decide requests for
variances from the requirements of this chapter and appeals of decisions or
determinations made by the Floodplain Administrator in the enforcement or
administration of this chapter.
   (B)   Any person aggrieved by the decision of the Variance and Appeals Board
may appeal such decision to the Circuit Court, as provided in Kentucky Revised
Statutes.
(Ord. 4 of 2013 Series, passed 7-16-2013)
§ 152.63 VARIANCE PROCEDURES.
   In passing upon such applications, the Variance and Appeals Board shall
consider all technical evaluations, all relevant factors, all standards
specified in other sections of this chapter, and the:
   (A)   Danger that materials may be swept onto other lands to the injury of
others;
   (B)   Danger to life and property due to flooding or erosion damage;
   (C)   Susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents to flood
damage and the effect of such damage on the existing individual owner and
future owners of the property;
   (D)   Importance to the community of the services provided by the existing
or proposed facility;
   (E)   Necessity that the facility be located on a waterfront, in the case of
functionally dependent use;
   (F)   Availability of alternative locations, which are not subject to
flooding or erosion damage;
   (G)   Compatibility of the proposed use with existing and anticipated
development;
   (H)   Relationship of the proposed use to the comprehensive plan and
floodplain management program for that area;
   (I)   Safety of access to the property in times of flood for ordinary and
emergency vehicles;
   (J)   Expected height, velocity, duration, rate of rise, and sediment
transport of the floodwaters, and the effects of wave action, if applicable,
expected at the site; and
   (K)   Costs of providing governmental services during and after flood
conditions, including maintenance and repair of public utilities and facilities
such as sewer, gas, electrical, water systems, streets, and bridges and
culverts.
(Ord. 4 of 2013 Series, passed 7-16-2013)
§ 152.64 CONDITIONS FOR VARIANCE.
   Upon consideration of the factors listed above and the purposes of this
chapter, the Variance and Appeals Board may attach such conditions to the
granting of variances as it deems necessary to further the purposes of this
chapter.
   (A)   Variances shall not be issued within any mapped regulatory floodway if
any increase in flood levels during the base flood discharge would result.
   (B)   (1)   Variances shall only be issued upon a determination that the
variance is the “minimum necessary” to afford relief considering the flood
hazard. MINIMUM NECESSARY means to afford relief with a minimum of deviation
from the requirements of this chapter.
      (2)   For example, in the case of variances to an elevation requirement,
this means the Variance and Appeals Board need not grant permission for the
applicant to build at grade, or even to whatever elevation the applicant
proposes, but only to that elevation which the Variance and Appeals Board
believes will both provide relief and preserve the integrity of the local
ordinance.
   (C)   Variances shall only be issued upon:
      (1)   A showing of good and sufficient cause;
      (2)   A determination that failure to grant the variance would result in
exceptional hardship to the applicant; and
      (3)   A determination that the granting of a variance will not result in
increased flood height, additional threats to public safety, cause
extraordinary public expense, create nuisance (as defined in §
152.05), cause fraud, or victimization of the public (as defined in §
152.05) or conflict with existing local laws or ordinances.
   (D)   Any applicant to whom a variance is granted shall be given written
notice specifying the difference between the base flood elevation and the
elevation to which the structure is to be built and stating that the cost of
flood insurance will be commensurate with the increased risk resulting from the
lowest floor being situated below the base flood elevation.
   (E)   The Floodplain Administrator shall maintain the records of all appeal
actions and report any variances to the Federal Emergency Management Agency
(FEMA) upon request
   (F)   Variances may be issued for new construction, substantial improvement,
and other proposed new development necessary for the conduct of a functionally
dependent use provided that the provisions of §
152.63 are satisfied and that the structure or other development is protected
by methods that minimize flood damages during the base flood and does not
result in additional threats to public safety and does not create a public
nuisance.
(Ord. 4 of 2013 Series, passed 7-16-2013)
§ 152.65 VARIANCE NOTIFICATION.
   (A)   Any applicant to whom a variance is granted shall be given written
notice over the signature of a community official that:
      (1)   The issuance of a variance to construct a structure below the base
flood elevation will result in increased premium rates for flood insurance up
to amounts as high as $25 for $100 of insurance coverage.
      (2)   Such construction below the base flood level increases risks to
life and property. A copy of the notice shall be recorded by the Floodplain
Administrator in the Office of the County Court Clerk and shall be recorded in
a manner so that it appears in the chain of title of the affected parcel of
land.
   (B)   The Floodplain Administrator shall maintain a record of all variance
actions, including justification for their issuance or denial, and report such
variances issued in the community’s biennial report submission to the Federal
Emergency Management Agency.
(Ord. 4 of 2013 Series, passed 7-16-2013)
§ 152.66 HISTORIC STRUCTURES.
   Variances may be issued for the repair or rehabilitation of “historic
structures,” as defined in §
152.05, upon determination that the proposed repair or rehabilitation will not
preclude the structure’s continued designation as an historic structure and the
variance is the minimum necessary to preserve the historic character and design
of the structure.
(Ord. 4 of 2013 Series, passed 7-16-2013)
§ 152.99 PENALTY.
   Violation of the provisions of this chapter or failure to comply with any of
its requirements, including violation of conditions and safeguards established
in connection with granting of a variance or special exceptions, shall
constitute a misdemeanor civil offense. Any person who violates this chapter or
fails to comply with any of its requirements shall, upon conviction thereof, be
fined no less than $500 or imprisoned for not more than 30 days, or both, and
in addition, shall pay all costs and expenses involved in the case. Each day
such violation continues shall be considered a separate offense. Nothing herein
contained shall prevent the Floodplain Administrator from taking such other
lawful action as is necessary to prevent or remedy any violation.
(Ord. 4 of 2013 Series, passed 7-16-2013)
CHAPTER 153: EROSION PREVENTION AND SEDIMENT CONTROL
Section
   
153.01   Introduction; purpose
   
153.02   Definitions
   
153.03   Permits
   
153.04   Review and issuance
   
153.05   Erosion prevention and sediment control plan
   
153.06   Design requirements
   
153.07   Inspection
   
153.08   Enforcement
 
   
153.99   Penalty
§ 153.01 INTRODUCTION; PURPOSE.
   (A)   The Clean Water Act (CWA), being 33 U.S.C. §§ 1251 et seq., EPA, and
KYDOW established Phase II regulations and mandated Erosion Protection and
Sediment Control (EPSC) procedures for land disturbance activity and site work
construction in the commonwealth.
   (B)   (1)   During the construction process, soil is highly vulnerable to
erosion by wind and water. Eroded soil endangers water resources by reducing
water quality and causing the siltation of aquatic habitat for fish and other
desirable species.
      (2)   Eroded soil also necessitates repair of sewers, ditches, sinkholes,
and drywells. Streets and roads with sediment deposits are slick and hazardous
to the public.
      (3)   In addition, clearing and grading during construction cause the
loss of native vegetation necessary for terrestrial and aquatic habitat.
   (C)   As a result, the purpose of this chapter is to safeguard persons,
protect property, and prevent damage to the environment in the city. This
chapter will also promote the public welfare by guiding, regulating, and
controlling the design, construction, use, and maintenance of any development
or other activity that disturbs or breaks the topsoil or results in the
movement of earth on land in the city.
(Ord. 07-2005 Series, passed 4-26-2005)
§ 153.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICE (BMP). A measure that is implemented to protect
water quality and reduce the potential for pollution associated with stormwater
runoff.
   BLUE LINE STREAMS CERTIFIED CONTRACTOR. Channel streams that are represented
on the United States Department of the Interior Geological Survey 1:24,000
quadrangle maps.
   CERTIFIED CONTRACTOR. A person who has received EPSC training and is
certified by the City Building Inspector or Kentucky Division of Water to
inspect and maintain erosion and sediment control practices.
   CHANNEL. A natural or constructed/human-made watercourse with definite bed
and banks to confine and conduct continuously or periodically flowing water.
CHANNEL FLOW is that water which is flowing within the limits of the defined
channel.
   CLEAN WATER ACT (CWA). Federal regulation that prohibits the discharge of
pollutants to waters of the United States unless said discharge is in
accordance with an NPDES permit.
   CLEARING. Any activity that removes the vegetative surface cover.
   CRITICAL AREA. A site difficult to stabilize due to exposed subsoil, steep
slope, extent of exposure, or other conditions.
   DETENTION. The temporary delay of storm runoff prior to discharge into
receiving waters.
   DEVELOPER. Any individual, firm, corporation, association, partnership, or
trust involved in commencing proceedings to affect development of land for him
or her or others.
   DRAINAGE BASIN. A part of the surface of the earth that is occupied by and
provides surface water runoff into a stormwater management system, which
consists of a surface stream or a body of impounded surface water together with
all tributary surface streams and bodies of impounded surface water.
   DRAINAGE/DRY WELL. A bored, drilled, driven, dug, or naturally occurring
shaft or hole with a depth greater than the largest surface dimension; used to
drain surface fluid, primarily stormwater runoff, into a subsurface formation.
   DRAINAGE WAY. Any channel that conveys surface runoff throughout the site.
   EPHEMERAL STREAM. A stream or part of a stream that flows only in direct
response to precipitation or snowmelt. Its channel is above the water table at
times.
   EROSION. The wearing away of land surface by the action of wind, water,
gravity, ice, or any combination of those forces.
   EROSION PREVENTION AND SEDIMENT CONTROL PLAN (EPSC). A set of plans prepared
by or under the direction of a qualified professional in the commonwealth
indicating the specific measures and sequencing to be used to control sediment
and erosion on a development site during and after construction.
   EXCAVATION. Any portion of land surface or area from which earth has been
removed or will be removed; the depth below original ground surface to
remaining surface.
   EXISTING GRADE. The slope or elevation of existing ground surface prior to
cutting or filling.
   FILL. Portion of land surface or area to which soil, rock, or other
materials have been or will be added; height above original ground surface
after the material has been or will be added.
   FINISHED GRADE. The final slope or elevation of the ground surface after
cutting or filling.
   FLOODPLAIN. The relatively flat or lowland area adjoining a river, stream,
watercourse, lake, or other body of standing water which has been or may be
covered temporarily by floodwater. For purposes of this chapter, the FLOODPLAIN
is defined as the 100-year floodplain having a 100% of being equaled or
exceeded in any given year.
   GRADING. Any stripping, cutting, filling, or stockpiling of earth or land,
including the land in its cut or filled condition, to create new grades.
   IMPERVIOUS SURFACE. A term applied to any ground or structural surface that
water cannot
penetrate or through which water penetrates with great difficulty.
   KYDOW GENERAL PERMIT. An agreement between the regulating authority (KYDOW)
and the
permittee which specifies conservation practices that shall be implemented in
the construction of activities specified in the terms and conditions of the
general permit.
   LAND DISTURBANCE. The purposeful act of clearing, grubbing, excavating, or
grading; disrupting ground surface by or for construction activities, including
construction access/roads, staging, and storage sites producing significant
areas of exposed soil and soil piles.
   NATIONAL POLLUTANT DISCHARGE ELIMINATION SYSTEM (NPDES). EPA’s program to
control the discharge of pollutants to waters of the United States. NPDES is a
part of the Federal CWA, being 33 U.S.C. §§ 1251 et seq., which requires system
(NPDES) point and non-point source dischargers to obtain permits. These permits
are referred to as NPDES PERMITS.
   NOTICE OF INTENT (NOI). A formal notice to the KYDOW that a construction
project seeking
coverage under a general permit is about to begin.
   NOTICE OF TERMINATION (NOT). A formal notice to KYDOW that construction
project is complete and seeking release for the EPSC and the state general
permit.
   PERIMETER CONTROL. A barrier that prevents sediment from leaving a site by
filtering sediment-laden runoff or diverting it to a sediment trap or basin.
   PERMIT PHASING. Clearing a parcel of land in distinct phases, with the
stabilization of each phase completed before the clearing of the next.
   PERMITTEE. The person, company, contractor, or developer, who is responsible
for the land disturbing activity.
   PERMITTING AGENCY. The City Building Inspector, or other city department
deemed appropriate, responsible for review, and approval permits and EPSC
plans.
   PUBLIC STORM DRAIN. Drain system provided and maintained by the city, that
is designed to help maintain stormwater runoff and also provides inlets for
water to travel to holding areas attempting to remove excessive water from
streets and other areas.
   SEDIMENT. Solid material, both mineral and organic, that is in suspension,
is being transported, or has been moved from its site of origin by air, water,
or gravity as a product of erosion.
   SEDIMENT CONTROL. Measures that prevent eroded sediment from leaving the
site.
   SITE. A parcel of land or a contiguous combination thereof, where grading
work is performed as a single unified operation subject to erosion of
sedimentation as a result of cutting, filling, grading, or other disturbance of
the soil.
   SITE DEVELOPMENT PERMIT. A permit issued by the City Building Inspector for
the construction or alteration of ground improvements and structures for the
control of erosion, runoff, and grading.
   SITE WASTE CONTROL. The requirements set forth in this chapter are also
intended to control or eliminate waste from construction site operators that
may cause adverse impacts to water quality.
   STABILIZATION. The use of practices that prevent exposed soil from eroding.
   START OF CONSTRUCTION. The first land-disturbing activity associated with a
development, including land preparation such as clearing, grading, and filling;
installation of streets and walkways; excavation for basements, footings,
piers, or foundations; erection of temporary forms; and installation of
accessory buildings such as garages.
   STORMWATER MANAGEMENT PLAN (SWMP). A plan which is based on hydrologic and
hydraulic calculations to determine flood stage and required improvement to
minimize impacts by development.
   STORMWATER POLLUTION PREVENTION PLAN (SWPPP). A plan required by stormwater
regulations or permits that includes site map(s), an identification of
construction/contractor activities that could cause pollutants in the
stormwater, and a description of measures or practices to control these
pollutants. This is synonymous with the term BMP PLAN used in the KYDOW general
permit.
   TEMPORARY PROTECTION. Short-term stabilization of erosive or sediment
producing areas.
   VEGETATIVE PROTECTION. Stabilization of erosive or sediment producing areas
by covering the soil with any of the following materials: permanent seeding for
long-term vegetative cover, short-term seeding for temporary vegetative cover,
sodding, producing areas covered with a turf of perennial sod-forming grass,
tree planting, or other planting.
   WATERCOURSE. Any body of water, including, but not limited to lakes, ponds,
rivers, streams, and bodies of water designated as part of the stormwater
conveyance system.
   WATERWAY. A channel that directs surface runoff to a watercourse or to the
public storm drain.
(Ord. 07-2005 Series, passed 4-26-2005)
§ 153.03 PERMITS.
   (A)   Permits through the city are required for all site construction
projects and/or land disturbances. Depending on the amount of land disturbance,
various levels of permits are required. Design requirements and erosion
prevention and sediment control plans shall be prepared in accordance with §§
153.05 and
153.06. Criteria for permit levels and submittal requirements are as follows.
      (1)   Level 1 permit.
         (a)   Site construction disturbs less than one acre of soil and is not
a part of a larger development;
         (b)   Increased impervious area is less than 3,400 square feet;
         (c)   Ground slopes are less than 6%; and
         (d)   Submit Level 1 permit application accompanied by a plot plan
that shows general erosion protection and sediment control notations and
practices.
      (2)   Level 2 permit.
         (a)   Site construction disturbs less than one acre of soil and is not
a part of a larger development;
         (b)   Increased impervious area is greater than 3,400 square feet;
         (c)   Ground slopes are less than 6%; and
         (d)   Submit Level 2 permit application accompanied by a detailed
grading/erosion prevention and sediment control plan with details.
      (3)   Level 3 permit.
         (a)   Site construction disturbs one acre or greater of soil; and
         (b)   Submit Level 3 permit application accompanied by a detailed
grading/erosion prevention and sediment control plan and a SWPP plan prepared
by a qualified professional and submit KYDOW notice of intent (NOI). Copies of
all state applications, plans, and NOIs must be submitted to the city.
      (4)   Level 4 permit (general permit for utility companies).
         (a)   Operations disturb less than one acre;
         (b)   Submit Level 4 permit application; and
         (c)   Permit renewed every three years.
   (B)   Contractor shall coordinate with the KYDOW and the U.S. Army Corps of
Engineers to determine whether permits are required from those agencies before
construction begins.
   (C)   No permit through the city is required for the following activities:
      (1)   Any emergency activity that is immediately necessary for the
protection of life, property, or natural resources; and
      (2)   Existing nursery and agricultural operations conducted as a
permitted main or accessory use. However, permitting through regional, state,
and federal agencies may be required.
   (D)   Each permit application shall bear the name(s), telephone information,
electronic contact information (if available), and address(s) of the owner and/
or developer of the site, contractor for the site, and of any consulting firm
retained by the applicant together with the name of the applicant’s principal
contact at such firm and shall be accompanied by a permit fee.
   (E)   Each permit application shall include a statement that any land
clearing, construction, or development involving the movement of earth shall be
in accordance with the EPSC plan and that a certified contractor be responsible
for implementing and maintaining all aspects of that plan.
(Ord. 07-2005 Series, passed 4-26-2005)
§ 153.04 REVIEW AND ISSUANCE.
   (A)   The City Building Inspector will review each permit application to
determine its conformance with the provisions of this chapter. Acceptance
indicates that minimum requirements or intent are met and does not imply a
guarantee of performance. Based on the review of the permit application, the
permitting agency will:
      (1)   Accept the permit application submittal;
      (2)   Accept the permit application submittal subject to such reasonable
conditions as may be necessary to meet the requirements/intent of the
objectives of this chapter, and issue the permit subject to these conditions;
or
      (3)   Deny the permit application, indicating the reason(s) and procedure
for submitting a revised application and/or submission.
   (B)   The Building Inspector or any other county department reserves the
right to inspect the site prior to any construction activity in furtherance of
the review process.
   (C)   The Building Inspector acceptance of the permit is for general
compliance with local requirements and the KYDOW permit. The designer and/or
engineer is ultimately responsible for the details of design of the EPSC plan,
with the property owner/developer being responsible for implementation.
   (D)   The city will not issue a building permit until the required site
permit application accepted and the permit issued.
(Ord. 07-2005 Series, passed 4-26-2005)
§ 153.05 EROSION PREVENTION AND SEDIMENT CONTROL PLAN.
   (A)   The erosion prevention sediment control (EPSC) plan shall include the
following:
      (1)   A natural resources map identifying soil types, forest cover,
topography, and other natural features of concern. This map should be to scale
equivalent to balance of submittal;
      (2)   A schedule of events for the construction of the development site,
including stripping and clearing, rough grading, construction of utilities,
infrastructure, final grading. and landscaping. Sequencing shall identify the
expected date on which clearing will begin, the estimated duration of exposure
of cleared areas, areas of clearing, installation of temporary EPSC measures,
and establishment of permanent vegetation;
      (3)   All EPSC measures necessary shall be shown on the plan by location
and referred to by a legend for all phases of construction. Depending upon the
complexity of the project, the drafting of intermediate plans may be required
at the close of each season. Multiple EPSC plan sheets may be necessary to best
convey requirements for each phase;
      (4)   Seeding mixtures and rates, types of sod, method of seedbed
preparation, expected seeding dates, type and rate of lime and fertilizer
application, and type and quantity of mulching for both temporary and permanent
vegetative control measures;
      (5)   Provisions for maintenance of control facilities, including
easements and estimates of the cost of maintenance; and
      (6)   The proposed plan to control site waste, including a delineation of
contractor staging areas for equipment and fuel storage, site materials and
temporary facilities.
   (B)   Modifications to the plan shall be processed and accepted or denied in
the same manner as §
153.04 and may be authorized by the Building Inspector by written authorization
to the permittee, and shall include:
      (1)   Major amendments of the EPSC plan require an qualified
professional’s signature and shall be submitted to the Building Inspector for
acceptance; and
      (2)   Field modifications of a minor nature shall require a qualified
professional’s signature and shall be noted and dated on the EPSC record
drawings and available for review and acceptance by the Building Inspector.
(Ord. 07-2005 Series, passed 4-26-2005)
§ 153.06 DESIGN REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Any permitted land disturbance operation shall meet the design
criteria set forth in the most recent version of the city’s Stormwater Manual,
and shall be adequate to prevent erosion and control sediment from the site to
the satisfaction of the Building Inspector. Cut and fill slopes shall be no
greater than 3:1, except as approved by the Building Inspector to meet other
community or environmental objectives.
   (B)   Clearing and grading of natural resources, such as forests and
wetlands, and other natural features of concern shall not be permitted, except
when in compliance with all sections of this chapter as well as any regional,
state and federal regulation. Clearing techniques that retain natural
vegetation, drainage patterns, and buffers along streams, as described by the
Stormwater Manual, shall be used to the satisfaction of the Building Inspector.
   (C)   Clearing, except that necessary to establish sediment control devices,
shall not begin until all sediment control devices have been installed and have
been stabilized.
   (D)   Phasing shall be required on all sites disturbing greater than 50
acres, with the size of each phase to be established at plan review and as
approved by the Building Inspector.
   (E)   Erosion prevention BMP requirements shall include the following.
      (1)   Soil stabilization shall be completed within 14 days of final grade
work. If an area is left inactive for 21 days or more, the area shall have
temporary stabilization.
      (2)   If seeding or other vegetative erosion prevention methods are used,
vegetation shall become established within three weeks. If a satisfactory stand
of vegetation is not established, the Building Inspector may require the site
to be reseeded or a non-vegetative option employed.
      (3)   Special techniques such as rip rap, turf reinforcement, armoring,
and other methods that meet the design criteria outlined in the Stormwater
Manual on steep slopes or in drainage ways shall be used to ensure
stabilization.
      (4)   Soil stockpiles must be stabilized or covered and/or have sediment
control measures in place to control sediment movement. Stockpiles shall have
temporary vegetation established if it is going to be left for 21 days or more.
      (5)   During the winter months, at the close of the construction season,
when no construction is going on the entire site must be stabilized, using a
heavy mulch layer or other methods that do not require germination to control
sediment and prevent erosion.
      (6)   Minimize clearing and grading to the smallest possible area.
Preserve existing vegetation and trees to the maximum extent possible.
      (7)   Areas to be left undisturbed during construction shall be clearly
noted and delineated on the plans.
      (8)   Vegetative buffer strips in combination with other perimeter
controls shall be used for the protection of adjacent properties, watercourses,
and rights-of-way.
      (9)   Measures shall be implemented to control sedimentation deposits
into drainage structures and features, receiving water bodies, natural karst
features, roads, right-of-ways, and adjacent properties.
   (F)   Sediment control BMP requirements shall include the following.
      (1)   Dust control techniques shall be employed to prevent the blowing of
dust by air movements during land disturbance, demolition, and other
construction activities.
      (2)   Diversion of upland runoff past disturbed slopes shall be
implemented when necessary.
      (3)   Settling basins, sediment traps, tanks, and/or perimeter controls
shall be implemented as required by the Stormwater Manual to control sediment.
      (4)   Effective debris and trash management shall be required. At a
minimum, the following shall be met:
         (a)   Implementing waste management practices and disposal of wastes
including a designated waste collection area on site that does not drain
directly to a waterway, ensuring storage containers have lids, regular
scheduled waste collection (daily, weekly, and the like) to prevent
overfilling, cleaning up spills immediately, and disposal of construction site
waste at authorized landfills or disposal areas. Concrete trucks must wash out
on the job site and the runoff not allowed to drain onto public streets or into
the stormwater collection system; and
         (b)   Disposal plan for hazardous materials that may be utilized
during construction in accordance with local and state solid waste regulatory
agencies.
   (G)   Waterway, watercourse, ephemeral stream, and public storm drain
protection requirements shall include the following:
      (1)   A temporary stream crossing installed and approved by the Kentucky
Division of Water and the Building Inspector if a watercourse will be crossed
regularly during construction;
      (2)   Stabilization of the watercourse channel before, during, and after
any in-channel work;
      (3)   Design of all on-site stormwater conveyance channels in accordance
with criteria outlined in the Stormwater Manual; and
      (4)   Stabilization adequate to prevent erosion located at the inlets and
outlets of all pipes and paved channels.
   (H)   Construction site access requirements designed to minimize the deposit
of sediment or other materials on public streets and rights-of-way shall
include:
      (1)   Continuous access via a stabilized rock entrance, constructed in
accordance with the county’s Stormwater Manual; and
      (2)   A tire wash rack may also be required by the Building Inspector.
(Ord. 07-2005 Series, passed 4-26-2005)
§ 153.07 INSPECTION.
   (A)   Plans accepted by the Building Inspector for grading, stripping,
excavating, and filling work shall be maintained on site throughout the
duration of the work. After EPSC measures have been installed, contact the
Department of Public Services and request a pre-construction inspection.
   (B)   Upon completion of the pre-construction inspection and approval of
EPSC measures, the permit will be issued and site construction may commence.
   (C)   The Building Inspector designated agent shall make inspections as
deemed necessary to ensure the EPSC measures are being properly implemented and
maintained during construction. If minimum requirements for the EPSC are not
met, the permittee shall be notified and enforcement actions shall be taken.
   (D)   The permittee or his or her agent shall make regular inspections of
all control measures to determine the overall effectiveness of the EPSC plan
and the need for additional control measures. The frequency of these
inspections shall be once every seven calendar days and before and after storm
events of a half-inch of precipitation or more. All inspections shall be
documented in written form and kept on the construction site. Reports should be
available for the Building Inspector or State Inspectors to review upon request
during a site inspection.
   (E)   The Building Inspector designated agent shall enter the property of
the applicant as deemed necessary to make regular inspections to ensure the
validity of the reports filed under division (D) above.
(Ord. 07-2005 Series, passed 4-26-2005)
§ 153.08 ENFORCEMENT.
   In the event that any person holding a site development permit pursuant to
this chapter violates the terms of the permit or implements site development in
such a manner as to materially adversely affect the health, welfare, or safety
of the public near the development site or vicinity so as to be materially
detrimental to the public welfare or injurious to property or improvements in
the vicinity, the Building Inspector may suspend or revoke the site development
permit.
(Ord. 07-2005 Series, passed 4-26-2005)
§ 153.99 PENALTY.
   No person shall construct, enlarge, alter, repair, or maintain any grading,
excavation, or fill, or cause the same to be done, contrary to or in violation
of any terms of this chapter. Any person violating any of the provisions of
this chapter shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and each day during which
any violation of any of the provisions of this chapter is committed, continued,
or permitted, shall constitute a separate offense. Upon conviction of any such
violation, the person, partnership, or corporation shall be punished by a fine
of not more than $1,000 for each offense. (Note for each day that the
prohibited action is continued, it shall constitute a separate offense.) In
addition to any other penalty authorized by this section, any person,
partnership, or corporation convicted of violating any of the provisions of
this chapter shall be required to bear the expense of such restoration.
(Ord. 07-2005 Series, passed 4-26-2005)
CHAPTER 154: ZONING
Section
General Provisions
   
154.001   Title
   
154.002   Definitions
   
154.003   Authority and purpose
   
154.004   Compliance required
   
154.005   Most restrictive provisions shall apply
   
154.006   Amendment of regulations
   
154.007   Zoning change fee
Zoning Districts
   
154.020   Establishment of districts
   
154.021   Boundary lines; interpretation
Provisions Applicable to All Districts
   
154.035   Continuance of nonconforming uses
   
154.036   Rear dwelling prohibited
   
154.037   Reductions in lot area prohibited
   
154.038   Off-street automobile storage
   
154.039   Obstructions to vision at street intersections prohibited
   
154.040   Off-street loading and unloading space
   
154.041   Building line setback
Residence Districts
   
154.055   General provisions for residence districts
   
154.056   R-1 Districts (low density residential)
   
154.057   R-2 Districts (medium density residential)
   
154.058   R-3 Districts (high density residential)
Business Districts
   
154.070   Neighborhood Business Districts B-1
   
154.071   General Business District B-2
   
154.072   Central Business District B-3
Industrial Districts
   
154.085   Light Industrial Districts
   
154.086   Heavy Industrial District
Manufactured and Mobile Homes
   
154.100   Short title
   
154.101   Purpose
   
154.102   Standards for manufactured/modular homes
   
154.103   Non-conforming homes
   
154.104   Installation
Exceptions and Modifications
   
154.120   Lot of record
   
154.121   Group housing
   
154.122   Exception on height limits
   
154.123   Mobile home parks
Administration and Enforcement
   
154.135   Enforcing officer
   
154.136   Building permits and certificates of occupancy required
   
154.137   Board of Zoning Adjustment
   
154.138   Appeals to Board
   
154.139   Powers of Board as to review, special exceptions, and variances
 
   
154.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 154.001 TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known as the “Zoning Ordinance of the City of
Catlettsburg, Kentucky.” The map herein referred to, which is identified by the
title “Zoning Map of Catlettsburg, Kentucky,” and all explanatory matter
thereon are hereby adopted and made a part of this chapter by reference.
(Prior Code, § 152.001) (Ord. 113-1959, passed 6-1-1959)
§ 154.002 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALLEY. Any public or private way hereafter set aside for public travel less
than 14 feet in width.
   ANCHORING EQUIPMENT. Straps, cables, turnbuckles, chains, including
tensioning devices which are used with ties to secure a mobile home to ground
anchors.
   ANCHORING SYSTEM. A combination of ties, anchoring equipment, and ground
anchors that will, when properly designed and installed, resist overturning,
and lateral movement of the mobile home from wind forces.
   BUILDING. Any structure constructed or used for residence, business,
industry, or other public or private purposes, or accessory thereto; and
including tents, lunch wagons, dining cars, trailers, mobile homes, billboards,
signs, and similar structures whether stationary or movable.
      (1)   ACCESSORY BUILDING. A detached building, the use of which is
incidental to that of a principal building on the same lot.
      (2)   PRINCIPAL BUILDING. A building, including covered porches,
carports, and attached garages in which is conducted the principal use of the
lot on which it is situated. In any residence district, any dwelling shall be
deemed to be the PRINCIPAL BUILDING on the lot on which the same is situated.
   CENTERLINE OF A STREET. The center of the surfaced roadway or the surveyed
centerline of the street right-of-way, as defined by a city paid engineer.
   DWELLING. A house, apartment building, or other building designed or used
primarily for human habitation. The word DWELLING shall not include boarding or
rooming houses, hotels, or other structures designed for transient residence.
   FAMILY. One or more persons occupying a premises and living as a single
nonprofit housekeeping unit.
   GROUND ANCHOR. Any device at the mobile home stand designed to transfer
mobile home anchoring loads to the ground.
   HEIGHT OF BUILDING. The vertical distance from the established average
sidewalk grade or street grade, or finished grade at the building line,
whichever is the highest, to the highest point of the building.
   LOT. A piece, parcel, or plot of land occupied or to be occupied by one
principal building and its accessory buildings and including the open spaces
required under this chapter.
   MAIN FRAME. The structural component on which is mounted the body of the
mobile home.
   MOBILE HOME. Any vehicle or similar portable structure having no foundation
other than wheels, jacks, or skirting and so designed or constructed as to
permit occupancy for dwelling or sleeping quarters.
   MOBILE HOMES PARK. Any plot of ground upon which two or more mobile homes,
occupied for dwelling or sleeping purposes, are located, regardless of whether
or not a charge is made for such accommodation. The word PARK, when used in any
section dealing with or referring to mobile homes, shall be held to mean MOBILE
HOME PARK.
   STREET. Any public or private way set aside for public travel 14 feet or
more in width. The word STREET shall include the words, “road,” “highway,” and
“thoroughfare.”
   TIE. Strap, cable, or securing device used to connect the mobile home to
ground anchors.
   TOTAL FLOOR AREA. The area of all floors of a building, including attics,
finished basements, and covered porches.
   USE. The purpose or activity for which a building, structure, or land is
occupied, designed, or maintained.
   USE, NONCONFORMING. A use of a building or land lawful at the time of the
enactment of this chapter that does not conform with the permitted use
provisions of this chapter for the district in which it is located.
   VERTICAL TIE. A tie intended to primarily resist the uplifting and
overturning forces.
   YARD. An open space on the same lot with a principal building, open,
unoccupied, and unobstructed by buildings from the ground to the sky, except as
otherwise provided in this chapter.
      (1)   FRONT YARD. The yard extending across the entire width of the lot
between the front lot line and the nearest part of the principal building.
      (2)   REAR YARD. The yard extending across the entire width of the lot
between the rear lot line and the nearest part of the principal building.
      (3)   SIDE YARD. A yard extending along the side lot line from the front
yard to the rear yard, and lying between the side lot line and the nearest part
of the principal building.
(Prior Code, § 152.002) (Ord. 113-1959, passed 6-1-1959; Ord. passed 2-17-1975)
§ 154.003 AUTHORITY AND PURPOSE.
   (A)   In pursuance of the authority granted by KRS Ch. 100 to cities to
regulate and restrict the height, number of stories, and size of buildings and
other structures, the percentage of lot that may be occupied, the size of
yards, courts and open spaces, the density of population, and the location and
use of buildings, structures, and land for trade, industry, residence, or other
purposes; the city shall be divided into districts as hereinafter described,
and the regulations, restrictions, and boundaries of districts shall be
established, enforced, and amended as provided in this chapter.
   (B)   (1)   The zoning regulations and districts as herein set forth have
been made in accordance with a comprehensive plan for the purpose of promoting
the public health, safety, morals, and convenience, order, prosperity, and
general welfare of the community.
      (2)   They have been designed to lessen congestion in the streets, to
secure from fire, panic, and other dangers, to provide adequate light and air,
to prevent the overcrowding of land, to avoid undue concentration of
population, to facilitate the adequate provision of transportation, water,
sewerage control, schools, parks, and other public requirements.
      (3)   They have been made with reasonable consideration, among other
things as to the character of each district and its peculiar suitability for
particular uses, and with a view of conserving the value of buildings and
encouraging the most appropriate use of land throughout the city.
(Prior Code, § 152.003) (Ord. 113-1959, passed 6-1-1959)
§ 154.004 COMPLIANCE REQUIRED.
   No building or land shall hereafter be used and no building or part thereof
shall be erected, moved, or altered unless for a use expressly permitted by and
in conformity with the regulations herein specified for the district in which
it is located, except as hereinafter provided; and except that any structure
damaged or destroyed may be restored if such structure does not involve a
nonconforming use.
(Prior Code, § 152.004) (Ord. 113-1959, passed 6-1-1959) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.005 MOST RESTRICTIVE PROVISIONS SHALL APPLY.
   In case of conflict between this chapter and any part thereof, and the whole
or part of any existing or future ordinance of the city, or the whole or part
of any existing or future private covenants or deeds, the most restrictive in
each case shall apply.
(Prior Code, § 152.005) (Ord. 113-1959, passed 6-1-1959)
§ 154.006 AMENDMENT OF REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Such regulations, restrictions, and boundaries as are provided for in
this chapter may be amended, supplemented, changed, modified, or repealed.
   (B)   A public hearing shall be held by the City Council before adoption of
any proposed amendment, supplement, or change. The notice of hearing must be
published once a week for two successive weeks with final publication appearing
no later than seven days before the date of action, in a newspaper of general
circulation in the municipality.
   (C)   No amendment shall become effective unless it is first submitted to
and approved by the Planning Commission as required by KRS 100.211. It shall
take a majority vote of the City Council to override the recommendation of the
Planning Commission.
(Prior Code, § 152.006) (Ord. 113-1959, passed 6-1-1959)
Statutory reference:
   Amendment of zoning regulations, see KRS 100.211
§ 154.007 ZONING CHANGE FEE.
   Anyone applying for a zoning change shall be required to pay in advance a
$50 fee, plus expenses of certified mail and advertising.
(Prior Code, § 152.007) (Ord. 13-1987, passed 6-2-1987)
ZONING DISTRICTS
§ 154.020 ESTABLISHMENT OF DISTRICTS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the city is hereby divided into eight types
of districts, designated as follows:
   (A)   Residence District R-1 (low density);
   (B)   Residence District R-2 (medium density);
   (C)   Residence District R-3 (high density);
   (D)   Neighborhood Business District;
   (E)   Central Business District;
   (F)   General Business District;
   (G)   Light Industrial District; and
   (H)   Heavy Industrial District.
(Prior Code, § 152.020) (Ord. 113-1959, passed 6-1-1959)
§ 154.021 BOUNDARY LINES; INTERPRETATION.
   (A)   The boundaries of zoning districts are hereby established as shown on
the zoning map which is on file in the office of the City Clerk. Unless
otherwise shown on the zoning map, the boundary lines of districts are lot
lines, the center lines of streets or alleys, or such lines extended, railroad
right-of-way lines, the centerline of creeks, or the corporate limit line as it
existed at the time of enactment of this chapter.
   (B)   Questions concerning the exact location of district boundary lines
shall be determined by the Board of Zoning Adjustment.
(Prior Code, § 152.021) (Ord. 113-1959, passed 6-1-1959)
PROVISIONS APPLICABLE TO ALL DISTRICTS
§ 154.035 CONTINUANCE OF NONCONFORMING USES.
   Any use of land or structure existing at the time of enactment or subsequent
amendment of this chapter, but not in conformity with its provisions, may be
continued with the following limitations.
   (A)   No structure containing a nonconforming use shall hereafter be
expanded.
   (B)   Any structure containing a nonconforming use which has been damaged to
the extent of 50% or more of its fair sales value immediately prior to damage
shall not be repaired or reconstructed except in conformity with this chapter.
   (C)   No nonconforming use may be re-established after it has been
discontinued for six months. Vacating of premises or building or non-operative
status shall be evidence of a discontinued use.
   (D)   No nonconforming use may be changed to any other nonconforming use
unless the Board of Zoning Adjustment shall find that the proposed
nonconforming use is less detrimental to the district than the existing
nonconforming use of the property. The Board of Zoning Adjustment may specify
such appropriate conditions and safeguards as may be required in connection
with such change.
   (E)   All nonconforming signs, billboards, junk yards, lumber yards, and
similar uses of open land not involving an investment in permanent buildings of
50% or more of the assessed evaluation of city land on which they stand shall
be torn down, removed, altered, or otherwise made to conform within one year of
the date of enactment of this chapter.
   (F)   The provisions of this section shall apply to residences in industrial
districts.
(Prior Code, § 152.035) (Ord. 113-1959, passed 6-1-1959) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.036 REAR DWELLING PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No dwelling or mobile home shall be erected or placed on a lot which
does not abut on at least one street for at least 50 feet, unless approved as a
special exception by the Board of Zoning Adjustment.
   (B)   No building or mobile home in the rear of a main building or mobile
home on the same lot may be used for residential purposes, except as noted in §
154.121.
   (C)   (1)   (a)   No mobile home shall be placed on any residential lot on
which exists a dwelling structure unless the mobile home is so placed that it
meets all requirements for a dwelling located in that district.
         (b)   Specifically, mobile homes must be located so that the lot
assigned to the mobile home and on which it is located must front on a public
street for a distance of not less than 50 feet; the distance between a mobile
home and the nearest structure shall equal double the rear yard requirements of
a residence in the district in which the mobile home is located; and such
mobile home may not be placed in any yard area reserved for another structure.
      (2)   No mobile home may be connected to any utility or service in,
through, or at another structure; all such connections must be provided through
the public connections for service to mobile homes.
      (3)   The purpose of this division (C) is to permit owners of mobile
homes, who reside in conventional homes part of the year and in mobile homes
part of the year to park their own mobile home on their residential lot in the
same sense that vehicular parking is permitted in off-street areas.
      (4)   A mobile home that is owned by a resident of a lot may be located
on the lot in addition to the dwelling unit, provided the mobile home is parked
on the rear of the lot and the setback and yard requirements for an accessory
building in the district are observed; also, provided that the mobile home is
not connected to any service utility nor used for sleeping or residence
purposes.
(Prior Code, § 152.036) (Ord. 113-1959, passed 6-1-1959) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.037 REDUCTIONS IN LOT AREA PROHIBITED.
   No lot, even though it may consist of one or more adjacent lots of record,
shall be reduced in area so that the minimum yard, lot area per family, lot
width, building area, or other requirements of this chapter are not maintained.
This section shall not apply when a portion of a lot is acquired for a public
purpose.
(Prior Code, § 152.037) (Ord. 113-1959, passed 6-1-1959) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.038 OFF-STREET AUTOMOBILE STORAGE.
   (A)   (1)   Off-street automobile storage or standing space shall be
provided on any lot on which any of the following uses are hereafter newly-
established or re-established; such space shall be provided with vehicular
access to a street or alley.
      (2)   This section does not apply to such buildings built in the Central
Business District.
      (3)   For purposes of computing the number of parking spaces available in
a given area, the ratio of 250 square feet per parking space shall be used.
      (4)   The following are minimum requirements for specific uses:
         (a)   Dwellings. One space for each family dwelling unit;
         (b)   Boarding houses and rooming houses. One space for each sleeping
room occupied by boarders or roomers;
         (c)   Tourist accommodations. One space for each sleeping room offered
for tourist accommodations;
         (d)   Theater, auditorium, church, stadium, or other places of public
assembly. One space for each five seats available at maximum capacity;
         (e)   Industrial plant. One space for each five persons employed or
intended to be employed on such lot; and
         (f)   Commercial or business building in a neighborhood or general
business district. Four spaces for first 1,000 square feet of total floor area,
and one additional space for each additional 150 square feet of such floor
area.
   (B)   (1)   If vehicle storage space or standing space required above cannot
be reasonably provided on the same lot on which the principal use is conducted,
the Building Inspector may permit such space to be provided on other off-street
property provided such space lies within 400 feet of the main entrance to the
principal use.
      (2)   Such vehicle standing space shall be deemed to be required open
space associated with the permitted use and shall not hereafter be reduced or
encroached upon in any manner.
(Prior Code, § 152.038) (Ord. 113-1959, passed 6-1-1959) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.039 OBSTRUCTIONS TO VISION AT STREET INTERSECTIONS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   In all districts except Central Business, on a corner lot within the
area formed by the center line of streets at a distance of 90 feet from their
intersections, there shall be no obstruction to vision between a height of
three and one-half feet and a height of ten feet above the average grade of
each street at the center line thereof.
   (B)   The requirements of this section shall not be deemed to prohibit any
necessary retaining wall, but does apply to plant materials.
(Prior Code, § 152.039) (Ord. 113-1959, passed 6-1-1959) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.040 OFF-STREET LOADING AND UNLOADING SPACE.
   Every building or structure used for business or trade shall provide
adequate space for the loading and unloading of vehicles off the street or
public alley. Such space shall have access to a public alley or, if there is no
alley, to a public street.
(Prior Code, § 152.040) (Ord. 113-1959, passed 6-1-1959) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.041 BUILDING LINE SETBACK.
   (A)   (1)   A building line to establish a front yard for all buildings and
structures shall be established at a distance from the street right-of-way
equivalent to one-half the width of the right-of-way of the street on which the
building fronts.
      (2)   In no case shall this distance be less than 25 feet.
         (a)   A variance may be granted by the Board of Zoning Adjustment
where existing development on adjoining lots does not meet this front yard
requirement.
         (b)   The side yard requirements for all principal buildings on corner
lots shall be such that the principal building on the corner lot shall conform
to the side street setback lines.
         (c)   Accessory buildings shall also conform to the setback lines
established on either street and conform to the requirements of §
154.039.
   (B)   This section shall not apply to the Central Business District.
(Prior Code, § 152.041) (Ord. 113-1959, passed 6-1-1959) Penalty, see §
154.999
RESIDENCE DISTRICTS
§ 154.055 GENERAL PROVISIONS FOR RESIDENCE DISTRICTS.
   Within all Residence Districts (R-1, R-2, and R-3), the following
regulations shall apply.
   (A)   Uses permitted.
      (1)   (a)   The following uses are special exceptions and require written
approval of the Board of Zoning Adjustment: Churches and other places of
worship, parish house, public libraries, schools offering general educational
courses, public parks and non-commercial public recreational facilities,
municipal, county, state, or federal use, public utilities, funeral homes,
cemeteries, nursing homes, hospitals for human care, philanthropic institutions
and clubs, except a club the chief activity of which is customarily carried on
as a business, and kennels.
         (b)   The Board of Zoning Adjustment may deny approval or attach
certain conditions to its approval which it feels are necessary requirements in
order to preserve and protect the character of the district in which the
proposed use would locate.
      (2)   The following accessory buildings or uses customarily incidental to
any aforementioned permitted use are permitted under the following conditions:
         (a)   The taking of boarders or tourists or the leasing of rooms by
the family resident on the premises providing not more than three rooms are
used for such purposes. For purposes of advertising such use, one unlighted
sign, not over two square feet in area, may be used. Such use is not permitted
unless written approval is obtained from the Board of Zoning Adjustment;
         (b)   Professional offices, studios, or customary incidental home
occupations conducted within the principal building, but only by a person
resident in the dwelling, provided, no more than one person, not a resident of
the premises, is employed regularly and that not more than 25% of the total
floor area in any dwelling unit is devoted to such use. For the purpose of
advertising such use, one unlighted door sign not over two feet in area may be
used. No displays or change in facade shall indicate from the exterior that the
building is being utilized in whole or in part for any purpose other than a
dwelling. Such use is not permitted in R-1 District unless written approval is
obtained from the Board of Zoning Adjustment;
         (c)   Real estate signs advertising the sale, rental, or lease of only
the premises on which they are maintained, and not over 12 square feet in area;
and
         (d)   Mobile homes in accordance with §§
154.036(C) and
154.100 through
154.104.
   (B)   Height. No building shall exceed two stories or 30 feet in height,
unless each side yard is increased over the required minimum by a distance
directly proportional to the additional height over 30 feet. In no case shall
the height exceed 50 feet.
   (C)   Side and rear yards.
      (1)   All buildings, except unattached one-story buildings of accessory
use, shall have the following yard space:
 
Space           Feet
Rear yard depth 25 feet
Side yard width 10 feet
 
      (2)   Unattached one-story buildings of accessory use, unless there is a
party wall, shall have the following space to the lot line:
 
Space           Feet
Rear yard depth 5 feet
Side yard width 7 feet
 
   (D)   Billboards. No advertising signs or billboards, other than those
specifically permitted under §§
154.055 through
154.058, shall be allowed.
(Prior Code, § 152.055) (Ord. 113-1959, passed 6-1-1959) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.056 R-1 DISTRICTS (LOW DENSITY RESIDENTIAL).
   (A)   The minimum required lot area for a one-family dwelling is 7,000
square feet; for a multi-family dwelling add 7,000 square feet for each
additional dwelling unit.
   (B)   The minimum required lot width for a one-family dwelling is 70 feet.
(Prior Code, § 152.056) (Ord. 113-1959, passed 6-1-1959) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.057 R-2 DISTRICTS (MEDIUM DENSITY RESIDENTIAL).
   (A)   The minimum required lot area for a one-family dwelling is 6,000
square feet; for a multi-family dwelling, add 6,000 square feet for each
additional dwelling unit.
   (B)   The minimum required lot width at the building line for a one-family
dwelling is 60 feet.
(Prior Code, § 152.057) (Ord. 113-1959, passed 6-1-1959) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.058 R-3 DISTRICTS (HIGH DENSITY RESIDENTIAL).
   (A)   The minimum required lot area for a one-family dwelling is 3,750
square feet; for a multi-family dwelling, add 3,750 square feet for each
additional dwelling unit.
   (B)   The minimum required lot width at the building line for a one-family
dwelling is 50 feet.
(Prior Code, § 152.058) (Ord. 113-1959, passed 6-1-1959) Penalty, see §
154.999
BUSINESS DISTRICTS
§ 154.070 NEIGHBORHOOD BUSINESS DISTRICTS B-1.
   Within the Neighborhood Business Districts, the following regulations shall
apply.
   (A)   Uses permitted. The following are permitted uses:
      (1)   Any use permitted in a residential district;
      (2)   Grocery, self-service laundries, drug and hardware stores, barber
or beauty shops, shoe repair shops, branch laundry, or dry cleaning
establishments where no laundering or cleaning is to be done on the premises;
      (3)   Any accessory use or building customarily incidental to the above
permitted uses;
      (4)   Offices and other retail businesses or services not listed above
shall be considered special exceptions and will require written approval of the
Board of Zoning Adjustment. The Board shall grant such approval if it
determines that the proposed use is essential to the convenience of the
neighboring residents; and
      (5)   Business signs indicating name and type of business conducted on
the premises only. Such business signs shall not project more than one foot
beyond the building.
   (B)   Required lot area and yard area.
      (1)   All buildings intended for residential use, in whole or in part,
shall comply with the area and yard requirements of the adjacent or adjoining
residential district.
      (2)   All buildings on lots adjacent to a residential zone shall be
located so as to conform on the adjacent side with the side yard requirements
for the adjacent residential district.
      (3)   All buildings on corner lots shall be located so as to conform with
corner lot side yard requirements of residential districts as set forth in §§
154.039 and
154.041(A)(2).
   (C)   Height. All buildings shall meet height requirements for residential
districts.
(Prior Code, § 152.070) (Ord. 113-1959, passed 6-1-1959) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.071 GENERAL BUSINESS DISTRICT B-2.
   (A)   Uses permitted. The following are permitted:
      (1)   Any use permitted in a Neighborhood Business District, including
mobile home parks;
      (2)   Places of amusement and assembly, lumber yards, offices, hotels,
used car lots, public garages, and other motor vehicle service;
      (3)   (a)   Any retail business or retail service, including the making
of articles to be sold at retail on the premises.
         (b)   Any such manufacturing or processing shall be incidental to a
retail business or service and not more than five persons shall be employed in
such manufacturing; and
      (4)   Any accessory use or building customarily incidental to the above
permitted uses; and
      (5)   Outdoor advertising structures.
   (B)   Uses prohibited. The following are prohibited:
      (1)   Any business which is primarily of a wholesale, storage, or
warehousing nature; and
      (2)   Animal hospital, coal yard, live animal or poultry sales, gasoline,
oil, or alcohol storage above ground in excess of 500 gallons, ice plant, and
any other uses which in the opinion of the Board of Zoning Adjustment would be
detrimental to the development of the General Business District as a retail
shopping area.
   (C)   Required lot area and yard area.
      (1)   All buildings intended for residential use in whole or in part
shall comply with the area and yard requirements of an R-2 District.
      (2)   All buildings on lots adjacent to a residential zone shall be
located so as to conform on the adjacent side with the side yard requirements
for residential districts.
   (D)   Height. There are no height limitations for this district.
(Prior Code, § 152.071) (Ord. 113-1959, passed 6-1-1959) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.072 CENTRAL BUSINESS DISTRICT B-3.
   (A)   Uses permitted. The following is permitted: any use permitted in a
General Business District.
   (B)   Uses prohibited. The following are prohibited: any use prohibited in a
General Business District and such similar uses which in the opinion of the
Board of Zoning Adjustment would be detrimental to the development of the
Central Business District as a retail shopping area.
   (C)   Required lot area and yard area.
      (1)   All buildings intended for residential use in whole or in part
shall comply with the area and yard requirements of an R-3 District.
      (2)   All buildings on lots adjacent to a residential zone shall be
located so as to conform on the adjacent side with the side yard requirements
for the adjacent residential district.
   (D)   Height. There are no height limitations for this district.
   (E)   Boundary. The following boundary shall be designated as Central
Business District: beginning at a point at the centerline of 28th Street and
intersecting alley between Louisa Street and Panola Street; thence in an
easterly direction along the centerline of 28th Street to the floodwall; thence
in a northerly direction along floodwall to a point at the centerline of 25th
Street; thence in a westerly direction along the centerline of 25th Street to a
point at the center line of Broadway Street; thence in a southerly direction
along the centerline of Broadway Street to a point at the centerline of 26th
Street; thence continuing in a southerly direction on the centerline of an
alley between Louisa and Panola Streets to the centerline of 28th Street, the
point of beginning. This area shall be designated as such on the map of
planning and zoning for the city.
(Prior Code, § 152.072) (Ord. 113-1959, passed 6-1-1959; Ord. 10-1962, passed
10-4-1962) Penalty, see §
154.99
INDUSTRIAL DISTRICTS
§ 154.085 LIGHT INDUSTRIAL DISTRICTS.
   Within the Light Industrial Districts, the following regulations shall
apply.
   (A)   Uses permitted. The following are permitted:
      (1)   Any use permitted in Central Business Districts, except that no
building, structure, or portion thereof shall be erected, constructed, or used
for any dwelling use;
      (2)   Wholesale; storage; warehouse; animal hospital; bakery; bottling
works; building material yard; cabinet making; carpenter’s shop, clothing
manufacture; dairy; dyeing and dry-cleaning works; fruit canning or packing;
ice plants; laundry; milk distribution station; optical goods; paper boxes;
pencils; printing; publication or engraving; trucking terminal; and
      (3)   Gasoline, oil, or alcohol storage above ground in excess of 500
gallons and other industrial uses not listed above shall be considered special
exceptions and will require written approval of the Board of Zoning Adjustment.
The Board shall grant such approval if it determines that the proposed use will
not constitute a fire hazard or emit smoke, noise, odor, or dust which would be
obnoxious or detrimental to neighboring properties.
   (B)   Required side yards. On lots adjacent to a residential district, all
buildings shall be located so as to provide a minimum side yard of 25 feet on
the side adjacent to the residential district.
   (C)   Height. There are no height limitations for Light Industrial
Districts.
(Prior Code, § 152.085) (Ord. 113-1959, passed 6-1-1959) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.086 HEAVY INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT.
   Within the Heavy Industrial District, the following regulations shall apply:
   (A)   Uses permitted. The following are permitted:
      (1)   Any use permitted in Light Industrial Districts, except that no
building, structure, or portion thereof shall be erected, constructed, or used
for any dwelling use; and
      (2)   Any use not in conflict with any other ordinance of the city;
provided, however, that the following uses shall be considered special
exceptions and will require the written approval of the Board of Zoning
Adjustment: bag cleaning, boiler and tank works; central mixing plant for
cement, mortar, plaster, or paving materials; coke ovens; curing, tanning, and
storage of raw hides and skins; distillation of bones, coal, wood, or tar; fat
rendering; forge plant; junk yard; foundry or metal fabrication plant; gasoline
or oil storage above ground in excess of 500 gallons; slaughter house or
stockyards; smelting plant; the manufacture of acetylene, acid, alcohol, or
alcoholic beverages; ammonia, bleaching powder; chemicals, brick, pottery;
terra cotta or tile; candles; disinfectants; dye-stuffs; fertilizers;
illuminating or heating gas (or storage of same); linseed oil, paint, oil
turpentine, varnish, soap, and tar products, or any other use which in the
opinion of the Board of Zoning Adjustment would emit detrimental or obnoxious
noise, vibrations, smoke, odors, dust, or other objectionable conditions beyond
the confines of its property. The Board shall grant such approval if it
determines that the proposed use will not extend its detrimental or obnoxious
effects beyond the limits of the Heavy Industrial District in which it is
located.
   (B)   Required side yards. On lots adjacent to a residential zone, all
buildings shall be located so as to provide a minimum side yard of 50 feet on
the side adjacent to the residential district. Streets or public right-of-way
may be included in the side yard requirement of this division (B).
   (C)   Height. There is no height limitation for this district.
(Prior Code, § 152.086) (Ord. 113-1959, passed 6-1-1959) Penalty, see §
154.999
MANUFACTURED AND MOBILE HOMES
§ 154.100 SHORT TITLE.
   This subchapter shall be known and may be cited as the City of Catlettsburg
“Manufactured/Modular Home Ordinance.”
(Ord. 4, 2024, passed 3-19-2024)
§ 154.101 PURPOSE.
   It is declared that the limiting of the location of manufactured or mobile
homes or trailers in duly licensed manufactured or mobile home communities
holding such permits as required by the commonwealth and the city for such
operation is necessary to promote the health, safety, morals, or the general
welfare of the city.
(Ord. 02, 2011 Series, passed 3-15-2011)
§ 154.102 STANDARDS FOR MANUFACTURED/MODULAR HOMES.
   (A)   All manufactured/modular homes must be HUD approved and bear the
Kentucky Division of Building Safety approval certification and occupancy shall
only be approved for the use listed on the Kentucky certified insignia. No
homes older than three years are permitted, excepting those homes pre-existing
the adoption of this subchapter. Any pre-existing manufactured/modular, if
replaced, must comply with the provisions of this subchapter.
   (B)   Additionally:
      (1)   This standard applies to single, double wide and modular homes;
      (2)   The minimum size of a manufactured/modular home must be 14 feet
wide by 40 feet long;
      (3)   The minimum floor area must be 560 feet;
      (4)   Roofing materials must be similar to materials used for residences
within the city, roofing pitch can be no smaller than three twelfths pitch; and
      (5)   Siding materials used must be vinyl, metal, word or masonry.
(Ord. 4, 2024, passed 3-19-2024)
§ 154.103 NON-CONFORMING HOMES.
   All manufactured/modular homes existing within the city on the effective
date of this subchapter which do not comply with the requirements set out
herein are deemed to be non-conforming. Non-conforming homes will be permitted
to remain at their existing locations without compliance with the provisions of
this subchapter. However, should the non-conforming home be proposed for
relocation to another lot the home must comply with applicable requirements
under this subchapter at the new location.
(Ord. 4, 2024, passed 3-19-2024)
§ 154.104 INSTALLATION.
   Installation of manufactured/modular homes must meet the following
requirements:
   (A)   Foundation must be concrete 12 to 18 inches deep. The foundation must
meet manufactured/modular home specifications and must be permanent in nature;
   (B)   The home must comply with all lot size, set backs and all other zoning
requirements for the lot in question;
   (C)   Storage buildings located on the lot cannot be closer than five feet
of the property line;
   (D)   Porch must face the street of the home address, exemptions may granted
in mobile home parks or by variance by the Board of Zoning Adjustment;
   (E)   Home must be placed at least 20 feet from the street which home has as
address;
   (F)   Skirting may block metal or concrete. Metal must be at least 22 gauge.
Skirting must be treated wood on the bottom for support that is secured to the
ground surrounding the home and firmly attached;
   (G)   Homes must be lived in or actively used as a business;
   (H)   Only rented homes are allowed in mobile home parks;
   (I)   Electric, sewer and water must be inspected by a licensed building
inspector prior to occupancy;
   (J)   No manufactured/modular homes shall be closer than 30 feet of another
such home;
   (K)   Each home must be inspected by a city building inspector with payment
of a $100 fee prior to occupancy;
   (L)   Tires, axles and tongue must be removed and appropriate skirting
installed within 120 days of placement on the location and registration/
documentation with the County Clerk filed;
   (M)   Home and real estate must be owned by the resident of the home; and
   (N)   Front and back steps must be attached to the home.
(Ord. 4, 2024, passed 3-19-2024)
EXCEPTIONS AND MODIFICATIONS
§ 154.120 LOT OF RECORD.
   (A)   The owner of a lot of official record, which lot at the time of the
adoption of this chapter does not include sufficient land to conform to the
yard or other requirements of this chapter, may submit an application to the
Board of Zoning Adjustment for a variance from the terms of this chapter in
accordance with the provisions of §§
154.137 through
154.139.
   (B)   Such lot may be used as a building site; provided, however, that the
yard and other requirements of the district are complied with as closely as is
possible in the opinion of the Board of Zoning Adjustment.
(Prior Code, § 152.120) (Ord. 113-1959, passed 6-1-1959)
§ 154.121 GROUP HOUSING.
   (A)   In the case of group housing of two or more buildings to be
constructed on a plot of ground, not subdivided into the customary streets and
lots, and which will not be so subdivided or where the existing or contemplated
street and lot layout make it impracticable to apply the requirements of this
chapter to the individual building units in such group housing, the application
of the terms of this chapter may be varied by the Board of Zoning Adjustment in
a manner which will be in harmony with the character of the neighborhood.
   (B)   However, in no case shall the Board of Zoning Adjustment authorize a
use prohibited in the district in which the housing is to be located, or a
smaller lot area per family than the minimum required in such district, or a
greater height, or a smaller yard area than the requirements of this chapter
permit in such a district.
(Prior Code, § 152.121) (Ord. 113-1959, passed 6-1-1959) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.122 EXCEPTION ON HEIGHT LIMITS.
   The height limitations of this chapter shall not apply to church spires,
belfries, cupolas, and domes not intended for human occupancy; monuments, water
towers, observation towers, transmission towers, windmills, chimneys,
smokestacks, derricks, conveyors, flag poles, radio and TV towers, masts, and
aerials.
(Prior Code, § 152.122) (Ord. 113-1959, passed 6-1-1959) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.123 MOBILE HOME PARKS.
   Mobile home parks may be located only in general business districts. Each
boundary of the park shall be at least 200 feet from any residential building
located outside the park, unless separated therefrom by any river, creek,
railroad, or public street.
(Prior Code, § 152.123) (Ord. 113-1959, passed 6-1-1959) Penalty, see §
154.999
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 154.135 ENFORCING OFFICER.
   The provisions of this chapter shall be administered and enforced by a
Building Inspector appointed by the Mayor with the approval of the City Council
who shall have the power to make inspection of buildings or premises necessary
to carry out his or her duties in the enforcement of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 152.135) (Ord. 113-1959, passed 6-1-1959)
§ 154.136 BUILDING PERMITS AND CERTIFICATES OF OCCUPANCY REQUIRED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to commence the excavation for or the
construction of any building, including accessory buildings, or to commence the
moving or alteration of any buildings, including accessory buildings, until the
Building Inspector has issued a building permit for such work.
      (1)   In applying to the Building Inspector for a building permit, the
applicant shall submit a dimensional sketch or scale plan indicating the shape,
size, and height and location of all buildings to be erected, altered, or moved
and of any building already on the lot. He or she shall also state the existing
and intended use of all such buildings, and supply such other information as
may be required by the Building Inspector for determining whether the
provisions of this chapter are being observed. If the proposed excavation or
construction as set forth in the application are in conformity with the
provisions of this chapter, and other ordinances of the city then in force, the
Building Inspector shall issue a building permit for such excavation or
construction. If a building permit is refused, the Building Inspector shall
state such refusal in writing, with the cause, and shall immediately thereupon
mail notice
of such refusal to the applicant at the address indicated in the application.
The Building Inspector shall grant or deny the permit within a reasonable time
from the date the application is submitted.
      (2)   The issuance of a permit shall, in no case, be construed as waiving
any provisions of this chapter.
      (3)   A building permit shall become void six months from the date of
issuance unless substantial progress has been made by that date on the project
described therein.
   (B)   No land or building or part thereof hereafter erected or altered in
its use or structure shall be used until the Building Inspector shall have
issued a certificate of occupancy stating that such land, building, or part
thereof, and the proposed use thereof are found to be in conformity with the
provisions of this chapter. Within three days after notification that a
building or premises or part thereof is ready for occupancy or use, it shall be
the duty of the Building Inspector to make a final inspection thereof and to
issue a certificate of occupancy if the land, building, or part thereof and the
proposed use thereof are found to conform with the provisions of this chapter;
or, if such certification is refused, to state refusal in writing, with the
cause, and immediately thereupon mail notice of such refusal to the applicant
at the address indicated in the application.
(Prior Code, § 152.136) (Ord. 113-1959, passed 6-1-1959) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.137 BOARD OF ZONING ADJUSTMENT.
   (A)   A Board of Zoning Adjustment is hereby established in accordance with
KRS 100.217 et seq. The Board of Zoning Adjustment shall consist of five
citizen members, not more than two of whom may be members of the Planning
Commission. They shall be appointed by the Mayor with the approval of City
Council. The term of membership shall be four years, except that the initial
individual appointments to the Board shall be terms of one, two, three, and
four years respectively. Vacancies shall be filled for any unexpired term by
the Mayor with the approval of the City Council, within 60 days, or as set
forth in KRS 100.217(5).
   (B)   Meetings of the Board of Zoning Adjustment shall be held at the call
of the Chairperson, and at such other times as the Board may determine. All
meetings of the Board shall be open to the public. The Board shall adopt rules
of procedure and shall keep records of applications and action thereon, which
shall be a public record. Upon appointment and annually, the Board of Zoning
Adjustment shall meet and organize and shall elect its own Chairperson who will
serve one year or until his or her successor duly qualifies.
   (C)   Oaths, reimbursement for expenses, and removal of members shall be
governed by KRS 100.217(6) through (9).
(KRS 100.217) (Prior Code, § 152.137) (Ord. 113-1959, passed 6-1-1959)
§ 154.138 APPEALS TO BOARD.
   Any appeal to the Board of Zoning Adjustment may be taken by any person,
firm, or corporation aggrieved, or by any governmental officer, department,
board, or bureau affected by any decision of the Building Inspector based in
whole or in part upon the provisions of this chapter. Such appeal shall be
taken by filing with the Board of Zoning Adjustment a notice of appeal,
specifying the grounds thereof. The notice of appeal shall be filed within 60
days from the date upon which the notice of refusal of building permit or
notice of refusal of certificate of occupancy is mailed by the Building
Inspector; and failure to file notice of appeal within 60 days shall constitute
a waiver of the right to appeal. The Building Inspector shall transmit to the
Board all papers constituting the record upon which the action appealed was
taken. The Board shall set a time for the hearing of the appeal, give public
notice thereof in accordance with KRS Ch. 424, as well as due notice to the
parties in interest, and decide the same within 30 days. Upon the hearing, any
person or party may appear in person or by agent or by attorney.
(Prior Code, § 152.138) (Ord. 113-1959, passed 6-1-1959)
§ 154.139 POWERS OF BOARD AS TO REVIEW, SPECIAL EXCEPTIONS, AND VARIANCES.
   The Board of Zoning Adjustment shall have the following powers:
   (A)   To hear and decide appeals where it is alleged by the appellants that
there is error in any order, requirement, permit, decision, determination, or
refusal made by the Building Inspector or other administrative official in the
carrying out or enforcement of any provision of this chapter; and for
interpretation of the zoning map. The concurring vote of four members of the
Board shall be necessary to reverse or modify any order or decision of an
administrative official;
   (B)   To hear and decide applications for special exceptions as specified in
this chapter and for decisions on any special questions upon which the Board of
Zoning Adjustment is specifically authorized to pass; and
   (C)   To hear and decide applications for variance from the terms of this
chapter, but only where, by reason of exceptional narrowness, shallowness, or
shape of a specific piece of property which at the time of the adoption of this
chapter was a lot of record; or where, by reason of exceptional topographic
conditions or other extraordinary or exceptional situation or condition of a
piece of property the strict application of the provisions of this chapter
would result in exceptional practical difficulties to or exceptional and undue
hardship upon the owner of such property, provided that such relief may be
granted without substantial detriment to the public good and without
substantially impairing the intent and purpose of this chapter. Financial
disadvantage to the property owner is no proof of hardship within the purpose
of zoning.
      (1)   In granting a variance, the Board may attach thereto such
conditions regarding the location, character, and other features of the
proposed building, structure, or use as it may deem advisable in the
furtherance of the purposes of this chapter.
      (2)   Before any variance is granted, it shall be shown that special
circumstances are attached to the property which do not generally apply to
other property in the neighborhood.
      (3)   The Board does not possess the power to permit a use prohibited by
this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 152.139) (Ord. 113-1959, passed 6-1-1959)
§ 154.999 PENALTY.
   Any person violating any provisions of §§
154.001 through
154.007,
154.020 and
154.021,
154.035 through
154.041,
154.055 through
154.058,
154.070 through
154.072,
154.085 and
154.086,
154.120 through
154.123, and
154.135 through
154.139 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction, shall be fined
not more than $500 for each offense. Each day such violation shall continue
shall constitute a separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 152.999)
(Prior Code, § 152.999) (Ord. 113-1959, passed 6-1-1959)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   Table
   
I.   ACCEPTANCES AND DEDICATIONS; STREET AND ALLEY RENAMINGS
   
II.   AGREEMENTS
   
III.   ANNEXATIONS AND DETACHMENTS
   
IV.   FRANCHISES
   
V.   REAL ESTATE TRANSACTIONS
   
VI.   VACATIONS
   
VII.   ZONING
   
VIII.   CONDEMNATIONS
TABLE I: ACCEPTANCES AND DEDICATIONS; STREET RENAMINGS
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
Ord./Res. No.     Date Passed Description
10-6-1924         - -         Accepting dedication of ten-foot alley known as
                              Morse Hollow Alley
                              Naming the alley between 34th and 35th Street and
08-2002 Series    10-3-2002   parallel to and between Spring and Louisa Streets
                              Edith s Alley
07 of 2013 Series 8-20-2013   Renaming 26th Street between Broadway and
                              Chestnut Streets in the city George Jones Place
                              Accepting all streets referred to in the
                              Municipal Aid Co-Op Program Agreement between the
7, 2021           6-28-2021   city and the Commonwealth of Kentucky
                              Transportation Cabinet, Department of Rural and
                              Municipal Aid
27, 2021          12-21-2021  Renaming 32nd Street from Oakland Avenue to the
                              railroad tracks to Roger Hensley Way.
                              Naming the unnamed alley running between 19th and
30, 2021          1-18-2022   20th Street south of Center Street shall be named
                              Kevin Lane
                              Accepting all streets referred to in the
                              Municipal Aid Co-Op Program Agreement between the
Res. 2, 2022      5-17-2022   city and the Commonwealth of Kentucky
                              Transportation Cabinet, Department of Rural and
                              Municipal Aid
                              Accepting all streets referred to in the
                              Municipal Aid Co-Op Program Agreement between the
5, 2022           6-21-2022   city and the Commonwealth of Kentucky
                              Transportation Cabinet, Department of Rural and
                              Municipal Aid
                              Accepting all streets referred to in the
                              Municipal Aid Co-Op Program Agreement between the
4, 2023           5-16-2023   city and the Commonwealth of Kentucky
                              Transportation Cabinet, Department of Rural and
                              Municipal Aid
                              Accepting all streets referred to in the
                              Municipal Aid Co-Op Program Agreement between the
9, 2024           5-22-2024   city and the Commonwealth of Kentucky
                              Transportation Cabinet, Department of Rural and
                              Municipal Aid
                             
 
TABLE II: AGREEMENTS
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
Ord./  Date
Res.   Passed Description
No.
-      - -    Amendment No. 2 to the Boyd County interlocal cooperation agreement for civil
              preparedness dated July 1, 1980
-      2-3-   Agreement between Kentucky and West Virginia Power Company and the city for
       1941   street lighting
-      4-12-  Agreement between Board of Education and the city for lease of school building
       1950
77-    10-7-  Agreement between the city and the Chesapeake and Ohio Railway Company in
1957   1957   connection with the flood protection project
1-1973 1973   Agreement between the City of Ashland and City of Catlettsburg relating to the
              production, distribution, and sale of water
2-1987 2-3-   Agreement between the City of Catlettsburg Police Department and the City of
       1987   Ashland Police Department to execute a mutual aid agreement
9-1987 5-5-   Agreement between the City of Catlettsburg and the City of Ashland to implement
       1987   an urban development action grant
              Agreement between the City of Catlettsburg and various cities, urban-county
11-    6-11-  governments, and other public agencies within the commonwealth to approve a
1987   1987   joint and cooperative program for self-insurance and the investment of public
              funds
11-    5-13-  Authorizing the Mayor to execute an interlocal agreement for a regional crime
1988   1988   squad with the police departments of Ashland, Flatwoods, and Russell
10,    11-16- Authorizing the Mayor to enter into a mutual aid agreement by and between the
1993   1993   City of Ashland and the City of Catlettsburg for fire protection services
07-           Authorizing the Mayor to enter into a contract on behalf of the city to employ
1995   8-11-  the services of John D. Meyers and Associates for the purposes of preparing
Series 1995   design plans for construction of a new city building located in the corner of
              25th and Broadway
08-           Authorizing the Mayor to enter into a contract on behalf of the city to employ
1995   9-12-  the services of ENSA, Inc., for the purpose of site investigation to
Series 1995   determinate vertical and horizontal extent of soil contamination for property
              located at the corner of 26th and Broadway
1996-  2-13-  Authorizing the Mayor to execute a contract for the provision of garbage
02A    1996   services with Hart Sanitation, Inc.
01-           Authorizing the Mayor to execute an amended interlocal agreement entered into
1997   1-3-   on October 17, 1995 to provide for compensation for the services of the
Series 1997   Economic Development Director of the City of Ashland for services provided in
              administering the enterprise zone
03-    2-26-  Amending an interlocal agreement entered into on November 7, 1996 between the
1998   1998   City of Catlettsburg and the City of Ashland to expand the Enterprise Zone to
Series        include the 1200 block of Bath Avenue within the Ashland corporation limits
              Authorizing the Mayor to execute an amended interlocal agreement between the
10-    5-25-  City of Catlettsburg, the City of Ashland, and the City of Russell, and other
1999   1999   counties of Boyd and Greenup, Kentucky to expand the enterprise zone to include
Series        Ashland Drive and Ashland Oil Drive and the area between those two roads within
              the Ashland corporation limits
04,    4-25-  Authorizing the Mayor to enter into an agreement with the City of Ashland to
2000   2000   settle pending complaints by the Natural Resources and Environmental Protection
Series        Cabinet against the city to provide to water service to Brumfield Estates
09,    7-25-  Park City storm drainage project is declared an emergency and a contract should
2000   2000   be awarded to Double D Construction without satisfying statutory procurement
Series        statutes of KRS 45A.365
              Authorizing the Mayor to execute and amend the interlocal agreement between the
03,    4-30-  City of Catlettsburg, the City of Ashland, and the City of Russell to include
2001   2001   census blocks 101B, 113, 122, 123, 124, 224, 225, 226, and 301 located within
              census tract 312 in the enterprise zone
04-    2-18-  Mayor authorized and directed to enter into a contract with Sean Miller for the
2014   2014   provision of Building Inspector services
Series
12,    5-29-  Approving and authorizing an assistance agreement between the city and the
2015   2015   Kentucky Infrastructure Authority and authorizing the Mayor to execute said
Series        agreement
1,     1-13-  Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute the CY 2021 HIDTA Appalachia
2021   2021   Subaward Agreement relating to the city’s participation in the Northeast
              Kentucky Drug Task Force
2,     1-13-  Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute an interlocal agreement
2021   2021   regarding the city’s participation in the Northeast Kentucky Drug Task Force,
              authorizing the Task Force to operate in Greenup County
              Authorizing and Directing the Mayor to execute an agreement with the Kentucky
4,     5-18-  Public Employees Deferred Compensation Authority regarding the city’s
2021   2021   participation in the Kentucky Public Employees’ 401(k) Deferred Compensation
              Plan
6,     5-11-  Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute the loan agreement between the
2021   2021   city and Kentucky Farmers Bank
13,    6-29-  Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute an agreement with the HDR
2021   2021   Engineering, Inc.
18,    8-5-   Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute the agreement related to the
2021   2021   acceptance of a grant for the Catlettsburg Elderly Housing Project
19,    8-5-   Authorizing the Mayor to execute an agreement with Grabhorn Law Office, PLLC to
2021   2021   perform legal services on behalf regarding claims of the city relating to the
              existing opiod litigation
20,    8-5-   Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute a contract between the city and
2021   2021   Mountain Enterprises, for all labor and materials for miscellaneous blacktop
              repair work in the city for a period of one year
21,    8-5-   Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute a contract between the city and
2021   2021   Southern Ohio Trenching, for all labor and materials for miscellaneous concrete
              repair work in the city for a period of one year
23,    8-31-  Authorizing the Mayor to execute the agreement related to the acceptance of the
2021   2021   FY22 Highway Safety Grant
24,    8-31-  Authorizing the Mayor to execute the agreement related to the acceptance of
2021   2021   CARES Relief funding
25,    9-30-  Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute an agreement with Aulick
2021   2021   Chemical Solutions for the change over from gas chemical treatment to liquid
              treatment of the waste water treatment plant
29,    12-21- Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute the agreement related to the
2021   2021   acceptance of a grant from the Department of Local Government
32,    12-21- Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute an amendment to the agreement
2021   2021   with HDR Engineering, Inc.
33,    12-21- Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute an agreement with Light’s
2021   2021   Enterprises, Inc. to demolish and remove the debris of the residence located at
              2110 Center Street
3,     3-15-  Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute an agreement with KLC for
2022   2022   professional services in connection with the preparation of personnel policies
              for the city
4,     4-25-  Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute the agreement with Bluegrass
2022   2022   Recreation for the construction and installation of the playground and
              surfacing project
14,    7-19-  Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute an agreement with Womack
2022   2022   Excavating, LLC to demolish and remove the debris of the residence located at
              8704 Ice Dam Hollow
              Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute an agreement with Bluegrass
15,    9-27-  Recreation Sales and Installation LLC, to construct and install playground
2022   2022   equipment for the Gibbs Park Project, the S-Curve Park Project, and the Akers
              Park Project
16,    9-29-  Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute an agreement with Womack
2022   2022   Excavating to demolish and remove the debris of the residences located at 322
              10th Street and 324 10th Street
17,    9-29-  Authorizing the Mayor to execute the related agreement to acceptance of a grant
2022   2022   from the Kentucky Infrastructure Authority
18,    11-22- Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute Amendment No. 2 to the agreement
2022   2022   with HDR Engineering, Inc.
19,    11-22- Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute an agreement with Hydromax LLC,
2022   2022   to perform those services set out in the bid packet for the smoke testing sewer
              line project
6,     4-11-  Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute a conditional commitment letter
2024   2024   and grant assistance agreement between the city and the Kentucky Infrastructure
              Authority apply for a grant for the pump station rehabilitation project
21,    9-25-  Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute an agreement with American Legal
2024   2024   Publishing for professional services relating to the updated publication of the
              city code
22,    9-25-  Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute an agreement with HDR
2024   2024   Engineering, Inc. for professional services in connection with the design,
              bidding, and construction of wastewater pump station improvements
24,    11-19- Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute an interlocal agreement with the
2024   2024   City of Ashland Fire Department regarding mutual aid
25,    11-19- Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute an interlocal agreement with the
2024   2024   City of Ashland and Boyd County regarding the operation of the Regional Public
              Safety Communications Center
2,     4-15-  Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute an agreement with Springbrook
2025   2025   Holding Company, LLC for financial software and professional services relating
              to installation of said software
9,     6-30-  Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute a memorandum of agreement with
2025   2025   the Commonwealth of Kentucky Department of Military Affairs, Division of
              Emergency Management for the Catlettsburg Generators FEMA Project
             
 
TABLE III: ANNEXATIONS AND DETACHMENTS
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed  Description
Ord./ Date
Res.  Passed    Description
No.
-     12-7-1925    Annexing certain territory beginning at a pointed stone in Spring Branch a corner
                   on the corporate line of the cities of Catlettsburg and Ashland
                   Striking certain territory from the boundaries of the city beginning at a point
-     9-11-1933    “B” where the present corporation line intersects the north line of the property
                   of Adeline Williams
99-                De-annexing certain parcel of land beginning at a point in the south line of 13th
1958  10-6-1958    Street (formerly Rose Street) where same intersects with the west line of a 40-
                   foot street extending from 13th Street to 12th Street
                   De-annexing that part of 13th Street beginning at the intersection of 13th Street
101-  11-6-1958    with U.S. Highways #23 and #60, and running west to the city limits; and that
1958               part of Kinner Street beginning at the intersection of Kinner Street with U.S.
                   Highways #23 and #60, and running west to the city limits
103-               De-annexing a parcel of land from the city located in the Hampton City section
1958  12-29-1958   and being a part of what is known as the Litman Property and the Gilligan
                   Property
111-  6-1-1959     De-annexing a parcel of land from the corporate limits located in the Morse
1959               Hollow Section and being what is known as the Andrews Pasture
130-               Annexing certain property beginning at a point in the south line of 13th Street
1961  2-15-1961    where same intersects with the west line of a 40-foot street extending from 13th
                   Street to 12th Street
                   De-annexing certain property from the city:
                   (1) Beginning at a point and angle of the corporation line where the fence of
131-  2-15-1961    Wash Honshell joins the fence of G.W. Andrews and N.P. Andrews
1961               (2) Beginning in the northerly line of Maud Adams land at a point ten feet
                   westerly measured at right angles from Spring Street and a corner of said land
                    
9-                5-10-1971Annexing a parcel of land located in the Hampton City section and being
1971               a part of what is known as the Litman property and the Gilligan property
1984- 12-10-1984   Annexing a parcel of land to the city being a part of what is known as the
11                 Brumfield Estates, located in the Hampton City section
3-                2-16-1987Annexing a parcel of land beginning at the present city limits on Haney
1987               Branch, and 55th Street or Woodland Terrace
08-   8-16-2016    Annexing certain Williams properties within Boyd County and contiguous to the
2016               present boundary lines of the city and defining by metes and bounds the territory
09-                Annexing a portion of U.S. Highway 23 and R&J Development Company, LLC, Property,
2016  8-16-2016    contiguous to the present boundary lines of the city and defining by metes and
                   bounds the territory proposed
10-                Annexing a portion of U.S. Highway 23 and R&J Development Company, LLC, Property
2016  12-12-2016   within Boyd County and contiguous to the present boundary lines of the city and
                   defining my metes and bounds the territory proposed
01-   3-21-2017    De-annexing territory previously annexed by Ord. 111-1959 as requested by the
2017               present owner
                  
 
TABLE IV: FRANCHISES
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed  Description
Ord./Res. No.     Date Passed  Description
-                 10-26-1925     Granting a franchise to Midland and Atlantic
                                 Bridge Corporation to operate a bridge
-                 3-13-1929      Granting a franchise to the Chesapeake and
                                 Ohio Railway Company
-                 11-12-1931     Confirming and re-enacting an ordinance passed
                                 of 3-13-1929
                                 Granting a franchise to Kentucky and West
-                 7-3-1933       Virginia Power Company for distribution of
                                 electric energy
-                 1950           Franchise sold to Ashland Home Telephone
                                 Company for telephone service
                                 Granting a franchise to Kentucky and West
1-1953            1953           Virginia Power Company for distribution of
                                 electric energy
3-1954            3-15-1954      Granting a garbage collection franchise to
                                 Alben B. Kouns
2-1963            4-10-1963      Granting a gas franchise to Ashland By-Product
                                 Gas Company
5-1970            11-9-1970      Granting a garbage collection franchise to
                                 Kenneth Johnson
10-1971           5-18-1971      Granting a franchise to Kentucky Power Company
                                 for distribution of electric energy
21-1975           6-18-1975      Granting a cable television franchise to C-
                                 K Video, Inc.
14-1976           12-1-1975      Granting a garbage collection franchise to
                                 Richard Hart
10-1980           12-1-1980      Granting a garbage collection franchise to
                                 Richard Hart
22-1986           7-8-1986       Granting a garbage collection franchise to
                                 Richard Hart
                                 Granting the right and privilege to Armstrong
                                 Utilities, Inc. to construct, install,
8-1989            4-18-1989      maintain, repair, replace, operate, and remove
                                 a television reception transmission and
                                 distribution facility in the city
                                 Granting Kentucky Power Company a franchise to
13-1991           8-20-1991      operate along the streets, thoroughfares,
                                 alleys, sidewalks, bridges, public ways, and
                                 other public places of the city
12-1992           11-17-1992     Granting a franchise for the collection of
                                 garbage to Hart Sanitation
                                 Amending ordinance 12-1992 granting a
02,1993           3-16-1993      franchise for the collection of garbage to
                                 Hart Sanitation
                                 Amending ordinance 2A-1996 Series, allowing
13-2000 Series    9-26-2000      Hart Sanitation to increase residential
                                 garbage fee from $8 to $9 per month
17, 2000 Series   11-28-2000     Granting a franchise for garbage, offal, and
                                 other waste material
03-2004 Series    10-26-2004     Adopting the proposed franchise agreement
                                 between the city and Armstrong Utilities, Inc.
10, 2011          8-16-2011      Granting a franchise to Kentucky Power Company
11 of 2011 Series 10-24-2011     Authorizing the Mayor to execute a franchise
                                 between the city and Armstrong Utilities, Inc.
                                 Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute
                                 a franchise between the city and Hart
11, 2021          5-26-2021      Sanitation for garbage services for a period
                                 of five years beginning June 1, 2021 and
                                 ending May 31, 2026
                                 Granting a ten year franchise to Kentucky
22, 2021          8-26-2021      Power Co. for the transportation, transmission
                                 and distribution of electric energy to the
                                 city for light, heat, power and other purposes
                                 Authorizing the Mayor to execute a franchise
                                 agreement between the city and Armstrong
1, 2022           3-15-2022      Utilities, Inc. providing for cable television
                                 service with the city for a period of ten
                                 years
                                
 
TABLE V: REAL ESTATE TRANSACTIONS
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed  Description
Ord./Res. No.    Date Passed  Description
                                Accepting a deed from the Board of Education
-                11-11-1936     conveying a tract of land as a site for a
                                school building
                                Accepting a deed from the Board of Education to
                                a substituted tract of land to be used in
-                3-11-1937      connection with the construction of a school
                                building and authorizing reconveyance to the
                                Board of the tract originally conveyed to the
                                city for the same purpose
-                4-12-1937      Amending and reenacting an ordinance adopted 3-
                                11-1937
                                Authorizing a lease by which the Chesapeake and
3-1950           - - 1950       Ohio Railway Company leased a parcel of land to
                                the city for purposes of an athletic field
                                Accepting deed of conveyance from the
15-1951          9-10-1951      Chesapeake and Ohio Railway Company for a
                                parcel of land for use as an athletic field
                                Conveying property to the Board of Education
110-1959         6-1-1959       located in the Hampton City section adjacent to
                                the present Hatfield School Property
                                Approving a lease for the financing of the
Res. 08          10-9-1997      acquisition, construction, installation, and
                                equipping of a Combined Police Station, Fire
                                Station, and Administrative Office for the city
06-2001 Series   5-22-2001      Ratifying the exchange of lots between the city
                                and Woodrow Mills
5 of 2012 Series 4-12-2012      Approving the purchase of real property located
                                at 3731 Park Street
                                Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute
                                a deed of conveyance between the city and
6, 2019          1-21-2020      Leonard Jobe and Ada Jobe regarding the
                                acceptance of the donation of 2501 Center
                                Street
                                Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute
                                the agreement with the Boyd County Fiscal Court
1, 2024          3-19-2024      regarding exchange of property located at 3001
                                Louisa Street for the property located at 3015
                                Louisa Street
                                Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute
                                the deed of transfer from the Boyd County
2, 2024          3-19-2024      Fiscal Court of property located at 3015 Louisa
                                Street in exchange for property located at 3001
                                Louisa Street owned by the city
                                Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute
                                the deed of transfer to the Boyd County Fiscal
3, 2024          3-19-2024      Court of property owned by the city located at
                                3001 Louisa Street in exchange for the property
                                owned by the county located at 3015 Louisa
                                Street
                               
 
TABLE VI: VACATIONS
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed  Description
Ord./  Date
Res.   Passed    Description
No.
-      - -1929      Closing of Fourteenth or Johns Street
-      8-5-1929     Vacating a certain alley lying between and parallel with Louisa Street and
                    Panola Street
-      1-27-1936    Closing several streets in Argo Addition and in Sandy Addition
-      5-2-1949     Closing and re-locating several alleyways in the city
                    Closing the alleyway between and parallel with Main Street and Oakland Avenue,
-      - -1949      extending from 34th Street to its intersection with the alleyway between and
                    parallel with 34th and 35th Streets
1-1951 1-3-1951     Closing portions of Clay Street, Webster Street, Panola Street, and an alley
                    running from Webster Street to Clay Street
                    Closing of two alleys:
                    (1) An alley 15 feet wide extending from the east line of Louisa Street,
5-1955 3-14-1955    eastwardly to the westerly line of Oakland Avenue
                    (2) An alley extending from the above-mentioned alley southwardly to 34th
                    Street
24-                 Authorizing the closing of an alley 15 feet wide extending from the east line
1956   4-2-1956     of Valley Street between 34th and 35th Streets, said alley lying between the
                    property presently owned by Goldie Willis and Orie Neal
27-    8-6-1956     Closing certain alleys in Catlettsburg, formerly Hampton City
1956
-      3-28-1966    Closing an alley lying between 34th and 35th Streets and extending from Hickory
                    Street to an alley parallel to Spring Street
-      4-22-1968    Closing the alley between 10th and 11th Streets and between Greenup Street and
                    the railroad
-      12-6-1971    Closing the alley lying between Short Street and south of the Freedman Property
                    and parallel with Louisa Street
                    Closing the alley lying between Louisa Street on the east and an alley running
3-1974 2-22-1974    parallel to Louisa Street on the west and lying along the south boundary of lot
                    No. l, block 11 of the Oakland Addition
28-    1-21-1976    Closing Locust Alley lying between U.S. 23 and Old Louisa Street
1976
3-1978 5-25-1978    Closing all the streets and alleys located within the D.S. Martin Subdivision
11-    1-12-1981    Closing Vine Street from 35th Street to 36th Street and closing Apple Alley
1981                from Court Street to Spring Street
13-                 Closing part of Panola Street, closing 29th Street from Louisa Street to the
1981   4-6-1981     east boundary line of the C&O Railroad, and closing the alley lying between
                    Panola Street and Louisa Street
3-1985 4-9-1985     Closing an alley owned by Kenneth and Columbia Leibee, located at 3626 Louisa
                    Road
                    Closing a 20-foot unopened public alleyway from the sewage treatment plant to
12-    6-3-1986     an iron pin located at the corner of the alleyway and Columbus Castle Estate
1986                and the 153 feet of the alleyway from the iron pin to the Warfield Lee Property
                    located in the Park Street area of the city
-1986  6-3-1986     Closing 31st Street from Upper Panola west to the city limits
16-    6-3-1986     Closing 31st Street from Upper Panola west to the city limits
1986
6-1988 3-1-1988     Closing Short Street at its intersection with 35th Street
11-    5-15-1989    Closing Panola Street from 28th Street to 29th Street
1989
9,     6-18-1991    Closing of an alley located at 36th and Lark Streets
1991
13,    12-15-1992   Closing Oak Street
1992
9 1993 7-20-1993    Closing Crows Court within the Brumfield Estates Subdivision in the city
                    Closing of a 625-foot unopened public alleyway from the R. & J. Development
06,    9-8-1994     Properties off Cemetery Road to said alley’s intersection with 38th Street,
1994                said alleyway being located adjacent to the 3700 block of Louisa Street in the
                    city
02,
Series 4-18-1995    Closing a portion of Mitchell Street
1995
03,                 Closing the portion of 36th Street beginning from the east line of Lark Street
Series 4-18-1995    through and including which point of said 36th Street intersections with the
1995                city floodwall
10-                 Closing the portion of Valley Street running southerly from the intersection of
1995   12-29-1995   U.S. 60 through the northerly portion of the CSX trestle
Series
05-
1999   4-27-1999    Closing Vine Alley
Series
15-                 Closing the section of Mulberry Alley running between U.S. 23 and that alley
2000   11-2-2000    running between 34th and 35th Streets
Series
12-
2001   11-20-2001   Closing 34th Street alley
Series
13-
2001,  11-20-2001   Closing Mulberry Alley
Series
01-                 Repealing ordinance 12-2001 “An Ordinance closing 34th Street alley from 34th
2002   1-22-2002    Street alley,” from 34th Street to the corner of lot no. 80 and 81 and lot No.
Series              66 and 67
02-                 Closing an alley in Sandy City located in the city and being a 15-foot alley
2002   2-26-2002    running from 10th Street (a/k/a Broadway) to 11th Street (a/k/a Ferry Street)
Series              running between lots 33-48 and lots 59-74
03-                 Closing a section of 11th Street (a/k/a Perry Street in Sandy City) running
2002   2-26-2002    from the railroad to that 15-foot alley between lots 33 through 35 and lots 59
Series              through 74
04-                 Closing 34th Street alley located in the city and being an alley running from
2002   2-26-2002    34th Street to the north line of Mulberry Alley between lots 77 through 79 and
Series              lots 68 through 70 as shown on the plat of Hampton City of record
15,                 Permanently closing the alley running between and parallel to Louisa Street and
2006   10-25-2006   Lock Avenue and bounded on the north by 28th Street and on the south by 29th
Series              Street by 29th Street in the city
                   
 
 
TABLE VII: ZONING
Ord. No. Date Passed  Description
Ord. No.       Date Passed  Description
                              Rezoning the area beginning at the southerly line
19-1989        - -            on property owned by James Hatfield at 3161
                              Oakland Ave., then northerly to 31st Street from
                              R-3 to B-2
                              (1) Changing that parcel located on the southwest
                              corner of 36th Street and Louisa Road from R-1 to
                              B-2
                              (2) Changing that area from 36th Street to 39th
                              Street between U.S. 23 and C&O Railroad tracks
04-1968        9-10-1968      from R-3 to B-2
                              (3) Changing that area beginning at 33rd Street
                              to 36th Street between the center line of Oakland
                              Avenue and the floodwall from I-2 to R-2
                              (4) Changing that area from 34th Street north,
                              between C&O Railroad and Court Street to end of
                              triangle joining U.S. 23 from B-1 to B-2
                              Rezoning the area lying between and abutting on
                              Center Street, Tenth Street, the southerly line
2-1973         4-2-1973       of the R-3 zone, the Ohio River, the northerly
                              line of the R-2 zone south of Pike's Crossing,
                              and the C&O Railway Co. from I-1 to I-2
                              Rezoning the area lying between and abutting
09-1974        8-5-1974       Center Street between 18th Street and 19th Street
                              from R-2 to B-2
10-1974        10-16-1974     Rezoning the area abutting on the south side of
                              38th Street and Public Street from R-1 to B-2
                              Rezoning the area from Winding Alley in a
18-1975        6-2-1975       southerly direction along U.S. 23 to the city
                              limits and extending west of U.S. 23 a distance
                              of 150 feet from R-1 to B-2
                              Rezoning the area lying between and abutting
22-1975        6-2-1975       Center Street between 12th Street and 13th Street
                              and extending westerly 150 feet from Center
                              Street from R-2 to B-2
                              Rezoning the area lying between and abutting
25-1975        7-25-1975      Louisa Street between 30th and 31st Streets and
                              extending westerly to the Chessie System right-
                              of-way from R-3 to B-3
                              Rezoning the area lying between 11th Street and
03-1997        6-20-1977      Horse Branch from Center Street to the city
                              limits from R-2 to B-2
                              Rezoning the area owned by the Boyd County Board
1981-17        10-5-1981      of Education fronting Center Street from R-2 to
                              I-1
                              Rezoning the area lying between 34th and Valley
01-1983        1-10-1983      Street westerly to an alley, northerly to Locust
                              Alley, easterly to Valley Street from R-2 to B-2
                              Rezoning the area lying between the northeast
05-1983        4-11-1983      corner of Oakland Avenue and 35th Street from R-
                              2 to B-2
17-1987        8-20-1987      Rezoning the west side of U.S. 23 from 36th
                              Street to 38th Street from R-1 to B-2
18-1987        9-1-1987       Rezoning the Chinatown Redevelopment project from
                              R-3 and I-2 to R-1
                              Rezoning the area bounded on the east by U.S. 23,
3-1989         2-2-1989       on the north by Barbecue Branch Creek, on the
                              west by Barbecue Road and on the south by 24th
                              Street from R-2 to B-2
                              Rezoning the area bounded with the city line on
2-1990         5-15-1990      the west, 168 on the north, Catletts Creek on the
                              south and a lot line on the east from R-1 to B-2
                              Rezoning the area bounded with Upper Panola on
3-1990         5-15-1990      the west, to the rear alley on the south, lot
                              line on the north and U.S. 23 on the east from R-
                              2 to B-2
07, 1994       9-8-1994       Rezoning the Boddie-Noell Enterprises, Inc.
                              property off Cemetery Road from R-1 to B-2
08-1994        9-27-1994      Rezoning property located on U.S. 23, Louisa
                              Street from R-1 to R-2
9-1999 Series  5-25-1999      Amending ordinance 9/95 and 3/98 to describe the
                              expansion of the city enterprise zone
03-2000 Series 4-25-2000      Amending ordinance 113-1959 to rezone property
                              abutting U.S. 23 to B-2
07-2001 Series 5-22-2001      Expanding the B-2 General Business District along
                              U.S. 23
3-2003 Series  4-22-2003      Rezoning the former CK&C Water Plant property
                              from R-1 to B-2
                              Amending the existing zoning map rezoning from R-
3 2010 Series  3-2-2010       3 to heavy industry lots 16 through 32,
                              inclusive, in Sandy City Subdivision of the city
                             
 
TABLE VIII: CONDEMNATIONS
Ord. No. Date Passed  Description
Ord. No. Date Passed  Description
18-1988  10-11-1988     Condemning the property belonging to the estate of
                        Sofia Porter, located at 3419 Valley Street
22-1988  11-15-1988     Condemning the property belonging to Donald Miles,
                        located at 529 Cannonsburg Pike
5-1989   2-28-1989      Condemning the property belonging to Greg Stergeon,
                        located at 3802 Louisa Road
13-1989  6-28-1989      Condemning the property belonging to James and Gladys
                        Crisp, located at 2309 Barbecue Road
14-1989  6-28-1989      Condemning the property belonging to Edith Napier,
                        located at 343 Watkins Street
15-1989  6-28-1989      Condemning the property belonging to James and Pat
                        Vallance, located at 3320 Springhaven
                       
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Kentucky Revised Statutes
References to Prior Code
References to Resolutions
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO KENTUCKY REVISED STATUTES
KRS Cites Code Section
KRS Cites         Code Section
6.050             32.43
6.955—6.975     33.04
18A.225           111.03
39B               53.01
41.240(4)         33.05
42.450—42.495   33.04
61                32.16
61.592            37.012
61.810            37.045
61.870            10.18
61.870(3)         39.01
61.870(4)         39.01
61.870(6)         39.01
61.870(7)         39.01
61.870(8)         39.01
61.872—61.884   37.033
61.872(1)—(3)   39.15
61.878            39.01
61.884            39.21
62.060            31.01
65.067            31.01
67.790            110.10;
                  110.11
78.510—78.852   37.012
78.530(3)         37.012
78.531            36.02
78.531(1)—(2)   37.012
80.020 et seq.    35.035
80.030            35.030
80.040            35.031
80.050            35.032
80.060            35.033
80.070            35.034
80.080            35.035
83A               31.15;
                  152.01
83A.010(5)        10.02
83A.010(6)        10.02
83A.010(8)        10.02
83A.030(1)        30.02
83A.040(1)        31.16
83A.040(2)(a)     31.16
83A.040(2)(c)     31.16
83A.040(2)(d)     31.16
83A.040(3)        31.16
83A.040(4)        32.01
83A.040(5)        32.02
83A.040(6)        31.16;
                  32.02
83A.040(7)        31.16;
                  32.02
83A.040(8)        31.16;
                  32.02
83A.040(9)        31.03
83A.050           31.15;
                  32.01
83A.060           37.048
83A.060(1)        32.30
83A.060(2)        32.31
83A.060(3)        32.32
83A.060(4)        32.33
83A.060(5)        32.35
83A.060(6)        32.17
83A.060(7)        32.33
83A.060(8)        32.36;
                  32.37
83A.060(9)        32.38
83A.060(10)       32.39
83A.060(11)       32.40
83A.060(12)       32.41
83A.060(13)       32.41
83A.060(14)       32.42
83A.060(15)       32.43
83A.065           10.99
83A.070           31.02
83A.070(1)        31.02
83A.070(2)        31.02
83A.070(3)        31.02
83A.075           31.02
83A.080           31.30
83A.080(2)        31.30
83A.080(3)        31.03;
                  31.30
83A.080(4)        31.15
83A.080(5)        31.15
83A.090           10.18
83A.130—83A.150 31.16
83A.130(1)        30.01
83A.130(2)        30.02
83A.130(3)        31.16
83A.130(4)        31.16
83A.130(5)        32.15
83A.130(6)        32.34
83A.130(7)        31.16
83A.130(8)        31.16;
                  72.034
83A.130(9)        31.16;
                  116.05
83A.130(10)       31.16
83A.130(11)       32.03;
                  32.16
83A.130(11)       32.16
83A.130(12)       32.03
83A.130(13)       32.03
83A.175           32.02
90.300(1)         37.001
90.300(2)         37.002
90.310            37.003
                  37.001;
90.310—90.410   37.003;
                  37.006
90.320            37.004
90.330            37.005
90.340            37.006
90.350            37.007
90.360            37.008
90.370            37.009
90.380            37.010
90.390            37.011
90.990            37.999
91A.010           33.01
91A.010(8)        10.02
91A.020           33.02
91A.030           33.03
91A.040           33.04
91A.050           33.04
91A.060           33.05
91A.080(8)        111.04;
                  111.05
91A.080(9)        111.04
91A.200           33.21
91A.210           33.20
91A.220           33.21
91A.230           33.22
91A.240           33.23
91A.250           33.24
91A.260           33.25
91A.270           33.26
91A.280           33.27
91A.290           33.28
92.305            34.05
92.580            34.02
92.590(1)         34.02
92.590(4)         34.02
                  36.02;
95                37.002;
                  37.012
95.019            36.46
95.710            36.15;
                  37.005
95.761            36.02
95.761(3)         37.003
97-1 et seq.      110.03;
                  111.03
                  35.050;
97.550            35.051;
                  35.053
97.560            35.052
97.570            35.054
97.580            35.055
97.590            35.057
97.590(2)         35.057
97.600            35.056
99                39.01
99.710            34.05
99.710—99.730   34.05
100               35.085;
                  154.003
100.111(4)        35.071
100.133           35.071
100.133 et seq.   35.070
100.141           35.072
100.143           35.073
100.147           35.074
100.151           35.075
100.153           35.076
100.157           35.077
100.161           35.078
100.163           35.079
100.167           35.080
100.171           35.081
100.173           35.082
100.177           35.083
100.181           35.084
100.211           154.006
100.217           154.137
100.217 et seq.   154.137
100.217(5)        154.137
100.217(6)—(9)  154.137
116—121         31.15
118.105           37.031
118.115           37.031
118.305(7)        32.02
118.325           37.031
118.760           37.031
131.010(6)        111.04
132.012           34.05
132.285           34.01
151.250           152.06
174.100           91.20
174.100(1)        91.21
174.100(2)        91.22
174.100(3)        91.22
174.100(4)        91.23
174.100(5)        91.24
186.A.145         72.036
189.020           71.037
189.210           74.01
189.221           74.02
189.228           74.03
189.285           73.02
189.287           73.01
189.330(8)        71.002
189.338           70.20
189.394           Ch. 75, Sch. I
189.450           72.003
189.560           71.080
189.580           71.020
189.725           72.008
189.930           71.036 
189.990           70.20;
                  72.999
189.990(1)        72.999
                  74.99;
189.990(2)(a)     Ch. 75, Sch. V;
                  Ch. 75, Sch. VI
189.990(2)(c)     74.99
189.990(5)(a)     74.99
189.993(8)        71.999
191               37.005
198B.060(8)       150.02
217.900           37.064
217.900(1)        37.061;
                  37.064
218A.010C(6)      37.061
218A.050          116.59
218A.070          116.59
218A.090          116.59
218A.110          116.59
218A.130          116.59
226.010           115.01
226.020           115.02
226.030           115.07
226.040           115.03
226.050           115.04
226.060           115.08
226.070           115.03
226.080           115.05
226.090           115.06
226.100           115.08
226.990(1)        115.99
226.990(3)        115.99
227.200—227.400 150.99
227.570           154.104
227.900           150.99
241—244         116.03
                  116.02;
241               116.04;
                  116.33;
                  116.241
241.170           116.05
241.200           116.27
                  116.02;
242               116.04;
                  116.33;
                  116.56
                  116.02;
243               116.04;
                  116.33;
                  116.56
243.030           116.20
243.040           116.20
243.070           116.20
243.075           116.21
243.100           116.24
243.380           116.23
243.390           116.23
243.450           116.25
243.500           116.32
243.620           116.29
243.630           116.34
243.850           116.55
                  116.02;
244               116.04;
                  116.33;
                  116.56
244.090           116.60
244.120           116.53
257.010           90.01
257.100(1)        90.06
257.100(2)        90.06
257.100(3)        90.06
257.100(4)        90.06
281.920           72.036
281.922           72.036
281.924           72.036
281.926           72.036
281.928           72.036
281.928(1)        72.036
281.930           72.036
281.932           72.036
281.934           72.036
281.936           72.036
304, Subtitle 17B 111.03
351.010           37.061
351.010(1)(l)     37.064
359.230           72.036
376.275           72.036
376.275(1) - (4)  72.036
                  32.38;
                  33.04;
                  33.24;
                  33.25;
424               34.02;
                  37.004;
                  37.010;
                  116.22;
                  154.138
424.120           33.04
424.170           116.22
424.220           33.04
424.220(6)(b)     33.04
436.600           90.04;
                  90.99
446.010(1)        10.02
446.010(2)        10.02
446.010(9)        10.02
446.010(10)       10.02
446.010(12)       10.02
446.010(13)       10.02
446.010(14)       10.02
446.010(15)       10.02
446.010(17)       10.02
446.010(18)       10.02
446.010(23)       10.02
446.010(25)       10.02
446.010(26)       10.02
446.010(27)       10.02
446.010(28)       10.02
446.010(30)       10.02
446.010(31)       10.02
446.010(33)       10.02
446.010(37)       10.02
446.010(39)       10.02
446.010(43)       10.02
446.010(46)       10.02
446.010(47)       10.02
446.010(49)       10.02
446.010(55)       10.02
446.020(1)        10.03
446.020(2)        10.03
446.030           10.04
446.050           10.05
446.060           10.06
446.080(1)        10.03
446.080(3)        10.03
446.080(4)        10.03
446.090           10.07
446.100           10.08
446.110           10.09
525.125           90.03
525.130           90.03;
                  90.99
525.135           90.99
                  31.99;
534.040           53.01;
                  116.99
                  10.99;
534.040(2)(c)     90.99;
                  92.99
                  
 
REFERENCES TO PRIOR CODE
Prior Code 2014 Code Section
Prior Code       2014 Code Section
10.01            10.01
10.02            10.02
10.03            10.03
10.04            10.04
10.05            10.05
10.06            10.06
10.07            10.07
10.08            10.08
10.09            10.09
10.10            10.10
10.11            10.11
10.12            10.12
10.13            10.13
10.14            10.14
10.15            10.15
10.16            10.16
10.17            10.17
10.18            10.18
10.99            10.99
30.01            30.01
30.02            30.02
31.01            31.01
31.02            31.02
31.03            31.03
31.20            31.15
31.21            31.16
31.22            31.17
31.35            31.30
31.37            31.31
31.50            31.45
31.51            31.46
31.52            31.47
32.01            32.01
32.02            32.02
32.03            32.03
32.20            32.15
32.21            32.16
32.22            32.17
32.35            32.30
32.36            32.31
32.37            32.32
32.38            32.33
32.39            32.34
32.40            32.35
32.41            32.36
32.42            32.37
32.43            32.38
32.44            32.39
32.45            32.40
32.46            32.41
32.47            32.42
32.48            32.43
33.01            33.01
33.02            33.02
33.03            33.03
33.04            33.04
33.05            33.05
33.10            33.20
33.11            33.21
33.12            33.22
33.13            33.23
33.14            33.24
33.15            33.25
33.16            33.26
33.17            33.27
33.18            33.28
34.01            34.01
34.02            34.02
34.03            34.03
34.04            34.04
35.01            35.001
35.10            35.015
35.11            35.016
35.12            35.017
35.15            36.30
35.16            36.31
35.20            35.030
35.21            35.031
35.22            35.032
35.23            35.033
35.24            35.034
35.25            35.035
35.26            35.036
35.40            35.050
35.41            35.051
35.42            35.052
35.43            35.053
35.44            35.054
35.45            35.055
35.46            35.056
35.47            35.057
35.48            35.058
35.60            35.070
35.61            35.071
35.62            35.072
35.63            35.073
35.64            35.074
35.65            35.074
35.66            35.076
35.67            35.077
35.68            35.078
35.69            35.079
35.70            35.080
35.71            35.081
35.72            35.082
35.73            35.083
35.74            35.084
35.75            35.085
35.85            35.100
36.01            36.15
36.02            36.16
36.17            36.32
36.18            36.33
36.19            36.34
36.20            36.35
36.21            36.36
36.22            36.37
36.23            36.38
36.24            36.39
36.25            36.40
36.26            36.41
36.27            36.42
36.28            36.43
36.29            36.44
36.30            36.01
36.50            36.02
37.01            37.001
37.02            37.002
37.03            37.003
37.04            37.004
37.05            37.005
37.06            37.006
37.07            37.007
37.08            37.008
37.09            37.009
37.10            37.010
37.11            37.011
37.12            37.012
37.13            37.013
37.14            37.014
37.99            37.999
39.01            39.01
39.05            39.15
39.06            39.16
39.07            39.17
39.08            39.18
39.09            39.19
39.10            39.20
39.11            39.21
39.12            39.22
50.01            50.111
51.01            51.02
51.02            51.02
51.03            51.03
51.04            51.04
70.01            70.01
70.02            70.02
70.03            70.03
70.04            70.04
70.05            70.05
70.15            70.20
70.16            70.21
70.17            70.22
70.18            70.23
70.19            70.24
70.20            70.25
70.21            70.26
70.99            70.99
71.01            71.001
71.02            71.002
71.03            71.003
71.04            71.004
71.05            71.005
71.15            71.020
71.16            71.021
71.25            71.035
71.26            71.036
71.27            71.037
71.28            71.038
71.29            71.039
71.40            71.055
71.41            71.056
71.42            71.057
71.43            71.058
71.44            71.059
71.45            71.060
71.46            71.061
71.47            71.062
71.48            71.063
71.49            71.064
71.50            71.065
71.51            71.066
71.65            71.080
71.99            71.999
72.01            72.001
72.02            72.002
72.03            72.003
72.04            72.004
72.05            72.005
72.06            72.006
72.07            72.007
72.08            72.008
72.09            72.009
72.10            72.010
72.11            72.011
72.12            72.012
72.13            72.013
72.14            72.014
72.15            72.015
72.20            72.030
72.21            72.031
72.22            72.032
72.23            72.033
72.24            72.034
72.26            72.036
72.35            72.050
72.36            72.051
72.37            72.052
72.99            72.999
73.01            73.01
73.02            73.02
73.03            73.03
73.04            73.04
73.99            73.99
74.01            74.01
74.02            74.02
74.03            74.03
74.99            74.99
Ch. 75, Sch. I   Ch. 75, Sch. I
Ch. 75, Sch. II  Ch. 75, Sch. II
Ch. 75, Sch. III Ch. 75, Sch. III
Ch. 75, Sch. IV  Ch. 75, Sch. IV
Ch. 75, Sch. V   Ch. 75, Sch. VI
Ch. 76, Sch. I   Ch. 76, Sch. I
Ch. 76, Sch. II  Ch. 76, Sch. II
Ch. 76, Sch. III Ch. 76, Sch. III
Ch. 76, Sch. IV  Ch. 76, Sch. IV
Ch. 76, Sch. V   Ch. 76, Sch. V
90.01            90.01
90.02            90.02
90.03            90.03
90.04            90.04
90.05            90.05
90.06            90.06
90.07            90.07
90.15            90.20
90.16            90.21
90.17            90.22
90.18            90.23
90.19            90.24
90.20            90.25
90.99            90.99
91.01            91.01
91.02            91.02
91.03            91.03
91.04            91.04
91.05            91.05
91.06            91.06
91.07            91.07
91.15            91.20
91.16            91.21
91.17            91.22
91.18            91.23
91.19            91.24
91.20            91.25
91.30            91.40
91.31            91.41
91.32            91.42
91.33            91.43
91.34            91.44
91.99            91.99
93.01            93.01
93.02            93.02
93.03            93.03
93.10            93.15
93.99            93.99
94.01            94.01
94.02            94.02
94.03            94.03
94.04            94.04
94.05            94.05
94.99            94.99
95.01            95.01
95.02            95.02
95.03            95.03
95.04            95.04
95.05            95.05
95.99            95.99
110.09           110.13
110.20           111.01
110.21           111.02
110.22           111.03
110.23           111.04
110.24           111.05
111.01           112.01
111.02           112.02
111.99           112.99
112.01           113.01
112.02           113.02
112.03           113.03
112.04           113.04
112.05           113.05
112.06           113.06
112.07           113.07
112.08           113.08
112.09           113.09
112.99           113.99
113.01           114.01
113.02           114.02
113.03           114.03
113.04           114.04
113.05           114.05
113.06           114.06
113.99           114.99
114.01           115.01
114.02           115.02
114.03           115.03
114.04           115.04
114.05           115.05
114.06           115.06
114.07           115.07
114.08           115.08
114.99           115.99
150.01           150.01
150.02           150.02
150.10           150.15
150.11           150.16
150.12           150.17
150.13           150.18
150.99           150.99
152.001          154.001
152.002          154.002
152.003          154.003
152.004          154.004
152.005          154.005
152.006          154.006
152.007          154.007
152.020          154.020
152.021          154.021
152.035          154.035
152.036          154.036
152.037          154.037
152.038          154.038
152.039          154.039
152.040          154.040
152.041          154.041
152.055          154.055
152.056          154.056
152.057          154.057
152.058          154.058
152.070          154.070
152.071          154.071
152.072          154.072
152.085          154.085
152.086          154.086
152.120          154.120
152.121          154.121
152.122          154.122
152.123          154.123
152.135          154.135
152.136          154.136
152.137          154.137
152.138          154.138
152.139          154.139
152.999          154.999
                 
 
REFERENCES TO RESOLUTIONS
Res. No. Date Passed Code Section
Res. No. Date Passed Code Section
03, 1994 9-27-1994   40.01—
                     40.04
08       10-9-1997   TSO V
08-2015  6-16-2015   37.015
09-2015  6-16-2015   37.016
                     39.01,
10-2015  6-16-2015   39.15—
                     39.20,
                     39.22
2, 2022  5-17-2022   TSO II
                    
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No Date Passed  Code Section
Ord. No               Date Passed  Code Section
-                     - -            Ch. 76, Sch. I
-                     - -            TSO II
2-1986                - -            31.45
18-1989               - -            37.013
19-1989               - -            TSO VII
-                     10-26-1925     TSO IV
-                     12-7-1925      TSO III
-                     1928           Ch. 76, Sch. I
-                     - - 1929       TSO VII
-                     3-13-1929      TSO IV
-                     8-5-1929       TSO IV
-                     11-3-1930      36.32
-                     11-12-1931     TSO IV
-                     7-3-1933       TSO IV
-                     9-11-1933      TSO III
-                     1-27-1936      TSO VI
-                     7-6-1936       Ch. 76, Sch. III; Ch. 76, Sch. VI
-                     11-11-1936     TSO V
-                     3-11-1937      TSO V
-                     4-12-1937      TSO V
-                     2-3-1941       TSO II
-                     4-3-1944       71.080
                                     72.003;
-                     5-6-1946       72.015;
                                     Ch. 76, Sch. II,
                                     Ch. 76, Sch. III
-                     11-18-1946     Ch. 76, Sch. I
-                     12-2-1946      72.080—
                                     72.087
-                     10-13-1947     Ch. 75, Sch. IV
-                     1949           TSO VI
5-1949                3-24-1949      Ch. 76, Sch. I
6-1949                4-4-1949       Ch. 76, Sch. II
-                     5-2-1949       TSO VI
-                     1950           TSO IV
3-1950                - –1950      TSO V
-                     4-12-1950      TSO II
5-1950                7-3-1950       71.005
7-1950                7-3-1950       Ch. 76, Sch. II
10-1950               11-6-1950      Ch. 76, Sch. I;
                                     Ch. 76, Sch. I
11-1950               11-6-1950      150.15;
                                     150.18
1-1951                1-3-1951       TSO VI
2-1951                1-3-1951       Ch. 76, Sch. I
3-1951                2-9-1951       Ch. 76, Sch. I
5-1951                5-7-1951       Ch. 76, Sch. I
14-1951               9-10-1951      Ch. 76, Sch. I
15-1951               9-10-1951      TSO V
16-1951               10-8-1951      91.44
6-1952                8-11-1952      Ch. 76, Sch. II
-                     1953           TSO IV
2-1954                3-15-1954      34.02
3-1954                3-15-1954      TSO IV
4-1954                4-5-1954       Ch. 76, Sch. I
9-1954                7-7-1954       Ch. 75, Sch. III
10-1954               7-7-1954       Ch. 76, Sch. VI
5-1955                3-14-1955      TSO VI
24-1956               4-2-1956       TSO VI
72-1957               7- -1957       Ch. 76, Sch. I
74-1957               8-5-1957       71.038;
                                     72.013
27-1956               8-6-1956       TSO VI
76-1957               9-9-1957       Ch. 75, Sch. II
77-1957               10-7-1957      TSO II
84-1958               5-6-1958       Ch. 76, Sch. I
88-1958               5-16-1958      35.070;
                                     35.085
94-1958               7-21-1958      Ch. 75, Sch. VI
95-1958               7-21-1958      Ch. 76, Sch. I
97-1958               7-28-1958      Ch. 76, Sch. I
99-1958               10-6-1958      TSO III
100-1958              10-6-1958      72.003;
                                     Ch. 76, Sch. IV
101-1958              11-6-1958      TSO III
103-1958              12-29-1958     TSO III
108-1959              5-4-1959       Ch. 76, Sch. I
110-1959              6-1-1959       TSO V
111-1959              6-1-1959       TSO III
                                     154.001—
                                     153.007;
                                     154.020;
                                     154.021;
                                     154.035—
                                     154.041;
                                     154.055—
                                     154.058;
113-1959              6-1-1959       154.070—
                                     154.072;
                                     154.085;
                                     154.086;
                                     154.120—
                                     154.123;
                                     154.135—
                                     154.139;
                                     154.999
115-1959              7-6-1959       Ch. 76, Sch. I
117-1959              9-14-1959      Ch. 76, Sch. I
119-1959              10-5-1959      Ch. 76, Sch. I
10                    5-13-1960      10.18
123-1960              6-6-1960       91.03
130-1961              2-15-1961      TSO III
131-1961              2-15-1961      TSO III
132-1961              3-8-1961       Ch. 76, Sch. I
137-1961              12-4-1961      Ch. 76, Sch. I
2-1962                4-2-1962       Ch. 76, Sch. I
4-1962                5-21-1962      Ch. 76, Sch. I
10-1962               10-4-1962      154.072
2-1963                4-10-1963      TSO IV
-                     1-17-1964      150.01;
                                     150.99
9-1964                8-20-1964      Ch. 76, Sch. V
1-1965                3-1-1965       Ch. 76, Sch. I
-                     3-28-1966      TSO VI
-                     5-11-1966      90.07
-                     7-22-1966      34.01
-                     4-22-1968      TSO VI
2-1968                4-22-1968      Ch. 76, Sch. I
04-1968               9-10-1968      TSO VII
15                    1-1-1970       10.18
4-1970                10-12-1970     36.01
5-1970                11-9-1970      TSO IV
9-1971                5-10-1971      TSO III
10-1971               5-18-1971      TSO IV
-                     12-6-1971      TSO VI
-                     5-1-1972       Ch. 75, Sch. VI
1-1973                1973           TSO II
2-1973                4-2-1973       TSO VII
5-1973                6-4-1973       Ch. 76, Sch. I
3-1974                2-2-1974       TSO VI
4-1974                6-21-1974      Ch. 76, Sch. I
5-1974                6-21-1974      72.086
6-1974                6-21-1974      Ch. 76, Sch. I
8-1974                6-21-1974      72.086
09-1974               8-5-1974       TSO VII
10-1974               10-16-1974     TSO VII
-                     2-17-1975      154.002
-                     3-3-1975       112.01;
                                     Ch. 76, Sch. I
18-1975               6-2-1975       TSO VII
22-1975               6-2-1975       TSO VII
-                     6-2-1975       Ch. 76, Sch. I
21-1975               6-18-1975      TSO IV
25-1975               7-25-1975      TSO VII
14-1976               12-1-1975      TSO IV
28-1976               1-21-1976      TSO VI
15-1976               5-3-1976       Ch. 75, Sch. VI
-                     6-2-1976       Ch. 75, Sch. VI
1-1977                3-21-1977      72.014
03-1997               6-20-1977      TSO VII
5-1977                10-17-1977     Ch. 75, Sch. I
1-1978                1-12-1978      Ch. 76, Sch. I
3-1978                5-25-1978      TSO VI
20                    1-1-1980       10.18
1-1980                3-10-1980      Ch. 76, Sch. I
                                     51.01;
10-1980               12-1-1980      51.03;
                                     51.04;
                                     TSO IV
11-1981               1-12-1981      TSO VI
13-1981               4-6-1981       TSO VI
1981-7                10-5-1981      TSO VII
01-1983               1-10-1983      TSO VII
05-1983               4-11-1983      TSO VII
1983-                 5-9-1983       36.16
1984-1                5-14-1984      35.050—
                                     35.053
1984-11               12-10-1984     TSO III
25                    1-1-1985       10.18
1-1985                3-11-1985      112.02
3-1985                4-9-1985       TSO VI
4-1985                4-9-1985       36.02;
                                     37.012
3-1986                2-10-1986      37.008
4-1986                2-24-1986      112.02
6-1986                2-24-1986      91.06
10-1986               5-12-1986      Ch. 76, Sch. I
-1986                 6-3-1986       Ch. 75, Sch. II,
                                     TSO VI
10-1986               6-3-1986       35.050
11-1986               6-3-1986       35.015—
                                     35.017
12-1986               6-3-1986       TSO VI
15-1986               6-3-1986       Ch. 75, Sch. I
16-1986               6-3-1986       TSO VI
20-1986               6-26-1986      Ch. 76, Sch. I
21-1986               6-26-1986      91.07
22-1986               7-8-1986       TSO IV
23-1986               7-8-1986       110.13
24-1986               7-8-1986       150.16;
                                     150.17
25-1986               8-5-1986       150.99
1-1987                1-6-1987       Ch. 76, Sch. I
27-2986               1-6-1987       Ch. 76, Sch. I
2-1987                2-3-1987       TSO II
3-1987                2-16-1987      TSO III
4-1987                2-16-1987      Ch. 76, Sch. I
10-1987               3-10-1987      36.34—
                                     36.44
9-1987                5-5-1987       TSO II
12-1987               5-28-1987      93.01
11-1987               6-11-1987      TSO II
17-1987               8-20-1987      TSO VII
18-1987               9-1-1997       TSO VII
19-1987               9-1-1987       Ch. 75, Sch. VI
20-1987               9-28-1987      37.014
3-1988                3-1988         Ch. 75, Sch. VI
2-1988                3-1-1988       71.039;
                                     93.15
6-1988                3-1-1988       TSO VI
11-1988               5-13-1988      TSO II
12-1988               6-7-1988       34.03;
                                     34.04
15-1988               8-2-1988       37.012
16-1988               8-16-1988      Ch. 76, Sch. V
18-1988               10-11-1988     TSO VIII
22-1988               11-15-1988     TSO VIII
1-1989                2-2-1989       37.013
2-1989                2-2-1989       36.01
3-1989                2-2-1989       TSO VII
4-1989                2-28-1989      37.013
5-1989                2-28-1989      TSO VIII
8-1989                4-18-1989      TSO IV
11-1989               5-15-1989      TSO VII
13-1989               6-28-1989      TSO VIII
14-1989               6-28-1989      TSO VIII
15-1989               6-28-1989      TSO VIII
                                     95.01—
16-1989               7-25-1989      95.05;
                                     95.99
17-1989               10-5-1989      37.013
1-1990                2-3-1990       37.013
2-1990                5-15-1990      TSO VII
3-1990                5-15-1990      TSO VII
5-1990                7-31-1990      37.013
6-1991                10-16-1990     Ch. 76, Sch. V
8-1991                1-28-1991      72.086
9, 1991               6-18-1991      TSO VI
13-1991               8-20-1991      TSO IV
09                    8-18-1992      Ch. 75, Sch. II
10                    8-18-1992      72.016;
                                     72.999
12-1992               11-17-1992     TSO IV
13, 1992              12-15-1992     TSO VI
02-1993               3-16-1993      TSO IV
07A-1993              6-29-1993      Ch. 75, Sch. I
9 1993                7-20-1993      TSO VI
                                     72.065—
04, 1993 Series       8-18-1993      72.068;
                                     72.999
10, 1993              11-16-1993     TSO II
06, 1994              9-8-1994       TSO VI
07, 1994              9-8-1994       TSO VII
08-1994               9-27-1994      TSO VII
                                     37.030—
09, 1994 Series       11-28-1994     37.048;
                                     37.999;
                                     Ch. 37, App. A
10, 1994 Series       12-31-1994     37.041
01-1995 Series        3-21-1995      91.45;
                                     91.99
02, Series 1995       4-18-1995      TSO VI
03, Series 1995       4-18-1995      TSO VI
                                     96.01—
06, 1995 Series       6-20-1995      96.15;
                                     96.99
07-1995 Series        8-11-1995      TSO II
08-1995               9-12-1995      TSO II
10-1995 Series        12-29-1995     TSO VI
1996-02A              2-13-1996      TSO II
01A-1996 Series       9-25-1996      Ch. 75, Sch. II
6, 1996 Series        11-19-1996     50.113
07-1996 Series        11-19-1996     90.24
01-1997 Series        1-3-1997       TSO II
03-1997 Series        3-27-1997      38.06
08-1997 Series        10-9-1997      36.45
                                     151.01—
                                     151.09;
10-1997 Series        11-20-1997     151.11—
                                     151.13;
                                     151.99
                                     51.15—
02-1998 Series        1-8-1998       51.17;
                                     51.99
03-1998 Series        2-26-1998      TSO II
8-1998 Series         12-29-1998     34.02
9-1998 Series         12-29-1998     50.112
01, 1999 Series       2-23-1999      51.15
02, 1999 Series       3-23-1999      37.007
04-1999 Series        5-25-1999      150.16
05-1999 Series        4-27-1999      TSO VI
03-2000 Series        4-25-2000      TSO VII
07, 2000 Series       5-23-2000      113.10
9-1999 Series         5-25-1999      TSO VII
10-1999 Series        5-25-1999      TSO II
04, 2000 Series       4-25-2000      TSO II
08, 2000 Series       7-25-2000      112.03;
                                     112.99
09, 2000 Series       7-25-2000      TSO II
7, 2000 Series        7-27-2000      113.10
10, 2000 Series       8-11-2000      72.088
12, 2000 Series       9-26-2000      71.040;
                                     71.999
13-2000 Series        11-2-2000      51.02;
                                     TSO IV
15-2000 Series        11-2-2000      TSO VI
14-2000 Series        11-28-2000     Ch. 75, Sch. V
16-2000 Series        11-28-2000     Ch. 75, Sch. V
17, 2000 Series       11-28-2000     TSO IV
02-2001 Series        2-27-2001      51.16
03, 2001              4-30-2001      TSO II
06-2001 Series        5-22-2001      TSO V
07-2001 Series        5-22-2001      TSO VII
08-2001 Series        6-26-2001      93.01;
                                     93.99
09 of 2011 Series     7-19-2001      Ch. 76, Sch. V
09-2001 Series        8-27-2001      151.09;
                                     151.10
10-2001 Series        8-28-2001      91.44
11-2001 Series        9-11-2001      36.46
12-2001 Series        11-20-2001     TSO VI
13-2001               11-20-2001     TSO VI
01-2002 Series        1-22-2002      TSO VI
02-2002 Series        2-26-2002      TSO VI
03-2002 Series        2-26-2002      TSO VI
04-2002 Series        2-26-2002      TSO VI
8-2002 Series         10-3-2002      TSO I
02-2003 Series        3-25-2003      37.013
3-2003 Series         4-22-2003      TSO VII
08-2003 Series        12-23-2003     33.40—
                                     33.46
03-2004 Series        10-26-2004     TSO IV
                                     153.01—
07-2005 Series        4-26-2005      153.08;
                                     153.99
                                     52.01—
                                     52.05;
                                     52.20—
10, 2005 Series       1-24-2006      52.26;
                                     52.40—
                                     52.48;
                                     52.99
15, 2006 Series       10-25-2006     TSO VI
                                     116.01—
                                     116.12;
04, 2007 Series       7-17-2007      116.25—
                                     116.41;
                                     116.99
05, 2007 Series       9-25-2007      116.05—
                                     116.41
07, 2007 Series       9-25-2007      111.04
08, 2007 Series       10-23-2007     116.28
09, 2007 Series       10-23-2007     32.16
01, 2008              1-24-2008      32.04
                                     50.001—
                                     50.003;
                                     50.015—
                                     50.019;
                                     50.030;
                                     50.031;
                                     50.045—
                                     50.048;
                                     50.060—
                                     50.068;
6, 2008 Series        10-21-2008     50.080—
                                     50.096;
                                     50.110;
                                     50.111;
                                     50.125—
                                     50.128;
                                     50.140—
                                     50.144;
                                     50.155—
                                     50.161;
                                     50.999
3-2009 Series         3-17-2009      31.48
4-2009 Series         3-17-2009      31.49
5, 2009 Series        4-21-2009      32.16
                                     110.01-
6, 2009               6-11-2009      110.12;
                                     110.99
1, 2010 Series        1-19-2010      36.16
2-2010 Series         1-19-2010      Ch. 76, Sch. V
9, 2009 Series        1-19-2010      37.013
3 2010 Series         3-2-2010       TSO VII
4 2010 Series         3-16-2010      91.01;
                                     91.99
5 2010 Series         3-16-2010      35.115—
                                     35.121
7 of 2012 Series      6-19-2010      115.03
8, 2010 Series        9-21-2010      111.02;
                                     111.03
                                     154.100—
02, 2011 Series       3-15-2011      154.107;
                                     154.999
07, 2011 Series       5-31-2011      37.060—
                                     37.075
09 of 2011 Series     7-19-2011      Ch. 76, Sch. V
10, 2011              8-16-2011      TSO IV
11 of 2011 Series     10-24-2011     TSO IV
03 of the 2012 Series 1-17-2012      150.02
4, 2012 Series        4-17-2012      31.60—31.39;
                                     31.99
5 of 2012 Series      4-12-2012      TSO V
7 of 2012 Series      6-19-2012      115.03
10 of 2012 Series     11-27-2012     Ch. 76, Sch. V
11 of 2012 Series     12-18-2012     Ch. 76, Sch. V
                                     152.01—
                                     152.13;
                                     152.25—
                                     152.27;
4 of 2013 Series      7-16-2013      152.40—
                                     152.46;
                                     152.60—
                                     152.66;
                                     152.99
05 of 2013 Series     8-20-2013      50.113
                                     130.01—
06-2013 Series        8-20-2013      130.05;
                                     130.99
07 of 2013 Series     8-20-2013      TSO I
08 of 2013 Series     11-19-2013     Ch. 76, Sch. V
01, 2014              2-6-2014       53.01
02-2014 Series        2-18-2014      151.07
03-2014 Series        2-18-2014      150.17
04-2014 Series        2-18-2014      TSO II
09, 2014 Series       9-16-2014      50.113
01, 2015 Series       2-26-2015      Adopting Ordinance
02, 2015 Series       2-26-2015      150.03
03, 2015 Series       2-26-2015      50.113
04, 2015 Series       3-17-2015      32.16
6, 2015               4-1-2015       50.113
12, 2015 Series       5-29-2015      TSO II
08, 2015 Series       6-16-2015      Ch. 76, Sch. V
09, 2015 Series       6-16-2015      71.055;
                                     71.057
1, 2016 Series        1-19-2016      94.06
2, 2016 Series        1-19-2016      51.15
04, 2016 Series       4-19-2016      32.16
07, 2016 Series       6-21-2016      154.103
08-2016               8-16-2016      TSO III
09-2016               8-16-2016      TSO III
10-2016               12-12-2016     TSO III
01-2017               3-21-2017      TSO III
04, 2017 Series       6-20-2017      50.113
03, 2017 Series       7-1-2017       50.113
                                     116.01—
07, 2017 Series       8-15-2017      116.03;
                                     116.35
08, 2017 Series       9-19-2017      Adopting Ordinance
04, 2018 Series       6-19-2018      111.02;
                                     111.03
7, 2018 Series        12-18-2018     50.113
                                     92.01—
2, 2019 Series        2-19-2019      92.07;
                                     92.99
6, 2019               1-21-2020      TSO V
4, 2020               10-20-2020     37.090—
                                     37.098
                                     37.091,
5, 2020               10-20-2020     37.092,
                                     37.094
1, 2021               1-13-2021      TSO II
2, 2021               1-13-2021      TSO II
                                     116.01—
                                     116.05;
                                     116.20—
3, 2021               2-25-2021      116.36;
                                     116.50—
                                     116.60;
                                     116.99
4, 2021               5-18-2021      TSO II
6, 2021               5-11-2021      TSO II
7, 2021               6-28-2021      TSO I
8, 2021               6-28-2021      116.21
11, 2021              5-26-2021      TSO IV
13, 2021              6-29-2021      TSO II
14, 2021              6-29-2021      Adopting Ordinance
18, 2021              8-5-2021       TSO II
19, 2021              8-5-2021       TSO II
20, 2021              8-5-2021       TSO II
21, 2021              8-5-2021       TSO II
22, 2021              8-26-2021      TSO IV
23, 2021              8-31-2021      TSO II
24, 2021              8-31-2021      TSO II
25, 2021              9-30-2021      TSO II
27, 2021              12-21-2021     TSO I
29, 2021              12-21-2021     TSO II
30, 2021              1-18-2021      TSO I
32, 2021              12-21-2021     TSO II
33, 2021              12-21-2021     TSO II
1, 2022               3-15-2022      TSO IV
3, 2022               3-15-2022      TSO II
4, 2022               4-25-2022      TSO II
5, 2022               6-21-2022      TSO I
11, 2022              6-23-2022      116.21
14, 2022              7-19-2022      TSO II
15, 2022              9-27-2022      TSO II
16, 2022              9-29-2022      TSO II
17, 2022              9-29-2022      TSO II
18, 2022              11-22-2022     TSO II
19, 2022              11-22-2022     TSO II
2, 2023               2-21-2023      38.01
3, 2023               3-29-2023      32.16
4, 2023               5-16-2023      TSO I
5, 2023               6-13-2023      116.21
                                     90.08,
10, 2023              9-28-2023      90.99,
                                     92.03
14, 2023              1-25-2024      36.16
1, 2024               3-19-2024      TSO V
2, 2024               3-19-2024      TSO V
3, 2024               3-19-2024      TSO V
4, 2024               3-19-2024      154.100—
                                     154.104
6, 2024               4-11-2024      TSO II
8, 2024               5-22-2024      116.21
9, 2024               5-22-2024      TSO I
19, 2024              9-25-2024      50.113
20, 2024              9-25-2024      38.01
21, 2024              9-25-2024      TSO II
22, 2024              9-25-2024      TSO II
24, 2024              11-19-2024     TSO II
25, 2024              11-19-2024     TSO II
1, 2025               3-18-2025      34.05
2, 2025               4-15-2025      TSO II
6, 2025               6-17-2025      32.16
8, 2025               6-30-2025      116.21
9, 2025               6-30-2025      TSO II
                                    
 
 
