CLARK COUNTY, KENTUCKY
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2025 S-4 Supplement contains:
Local legislation current through 2024-12, passed 10-24-2024; and
State legislation current through KRS 2024 Pamphlet
 
Published by:
AMERICAN LEGAL PUBLISHING
525 Vine Street Suite 310 Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-800-445-5588 www.amlegal.com
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
CHAPTER 10: RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
Section
   
10.01   Short titles
   
10.02   Definitions
   
10.03   Rules of construction
   
10.04   Computation of time
   
10.05   Majority may act for all; authorized agent
   
10.06   Writings and signatures
   
10.07   Severability
   
10.08   Revivor
   
10.09   Rights and liabilities accruing before repeal of ordinance
   
10.10   Construction of section references
   
10.11   Ordinances repealed
   
10.12   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.13   Ordinances saved
   
10.14   Amendments to code; amendatory language
   
10.15   Conflicting provisions
   
10.16   Reference to offices
   
10.17   Errors and omissions
   
10.18   Historical and statutory references
 
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01 SHORT TITLES.
   (A)   All ordinances of a permanent and general nature of the county as
revised, codified, rearranged, renumbered, and consolidated into component
codes, titles, chapters, and sections shall be known and designated as “The
Code of Clark County, Kentucky”, for which designation “codified ordinances” or
“code” may be substituted. Title heads, chapter heads, and section and division
heads or titles, and explanatory notes and cross references, do not constitute
any part of the law as contained in the code. (KRS 446.140)
   (B)   All references to codes, titles, chapters, and sections are to those
components of the code unless otherwise specified. Any component code may be
referred to and cited by its name, such as the “traffic code”. Sections may be
referred to and cited by the designation “§” followed by the number, such as “§
10.01”. Headings and captions used in this code other than the title, chapter,
and section numbers are employed for reference purposes only and shall not be
deemed a part of the text of any section.
§ 10.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this code, the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACTION. Includes all proceedings in any court of this state.
(KRS 446.010(1))
   AND. May be read OR, and OR may be read AND, if the sense requires it.
   ANIMAL. Includes every warm-blooded living creature except a human being.
(KRS 446.010(2))
   AVIS. The automated vehicle information system established and maintained by
the Transportation Cabinet to collect titling and registration information on
vehicles and boats and information on holders of motor vehicle operator’s
licenses and personal identification cards.
(KRS 446.010(55))
   COMPANY. May extend and be applied to any corporation, company, person,
partnership, joint stock company, or association.
(KRS 446.010(9))
   CORPORATION. May extend and be applied to any corporation, company,
partnership, joint stock company, or association.
(KRS 446.010(10))
   COUNTY. Clark County, Kentucky.
   CRUELTY. As applied to animals, includes every act or omission whereby
unjustifiable physical pain, suffering, or death is caused or permitted.
(KRS 446.010(12))
   DIRECTORS. When applied to corporations, includes managers or trustees.
(KRS 446.010(13))
   DOMESTIC. When applied to a corporation, partnership, business trust, or
limited liability company, means all those incorporated or formed by authority
of this state.
(KRS 446.010(14))
   DOMESTIC ANIMAL. Any animal converted to domestic habitat.
(KRS 446.010(15))
   EXECUTIVE AUTHORITY. The County Judge/Execute.
(KRS 83A.010(6), KRS 91A.010(4))
   FISCAL COURT. The Clark County Fiscal Court.
   FEDERAL. Refers to the United States.
(KRS 446.010(17))
   FOREIGN. When applied to a corporation, partnership, business trust, or
limited liability company, includes all those incorporated or formed by
authority of any other state.
(KRS 446.010(18))
   KEEPER or PROPRIETOR. Includes all persons, whether acting by themselves or
as a servant, agent, or employee.
   KRS. Kentucky Revised Statutes.
   LAND or REAL ESTATE. Includes lands, tenements, and hereditaments and all
rights thereto and interest therein, other than a chattel interest.
(KRS 446.010(23))
   LEGISLATIVE BODY. The Clark County Fiscal Court.
(KRS 91A.010(8))
   LIVESTOCK. Cattle, sheep, swine, goats, horses, alpacas, llamas, buffaloes,
or any other animals of the bovine, ovine, porcine, caprine, equine, or camelid
species.
(KRS 446.010(25))
   MAY. The act referred to is permissive.
(KRS 446.010(26))
   MONTH. Calendar month.
(KRS 446.010(27))
   OATH. Includes affirmation in all cases in which an affirmation may be
substituted for an OATH. (KRS 446.010(28))
   PARTNERSHIP. Includes both general and limited PARTNERSHIPS.
(KRS 446.010(30))
   PEACE OFFICER. Includes sheriffs, constables granted police powers,
coroners, jailers, metropolitan and urban-county government correctional
officers, marshals, police officers, and other persons with similar authority
to make arrests.
(KRS 446.010(31))
   PERSON. May extend and be applied to bodies-politic and corporate,
societies, communities, the public generally, individuals, partnerships, joint
stock companies, and limited liability companies.
(KRS 446.010(33))
   PERSONAL PROPERTY. Includes all property except real.
   PREMISES. As applied to property, includes land and buildings.
   PROPERTY. Includes real, personal, mixed estates, and interests.
   PUBLIC AUTHORITY. Includes boards of education; the municipal, county,
state, or federal government, its officers or an agency thereof; or any duly
authorized public official.
   PUBLIC PLACE. Includes any street, sidewalk, park, cemetery, school yard,
body of water or watercourse, public conveyance, or any other place for the
sale of merchandise, public accommodation, or amusement.
   REAL PROPERTY. Includes lands, tenements, and hereditaments.
   REGULAR ELECTION. The election in even-numbered years at which members of
Congress are elected, and the election in odd-numbered years at which state
officers are elected.
(KRS 446.010(37))
   SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory.
(KRS 446.010(39))
   SIDEWALK. The portion of the street between the curb line and the adjacent
property line intended for the use of pedestrians.
   STATE. The Commonwealth of Kentucky.
   STREET. Includes alleys, avenues, boulevards, lanes, roads, highways,
viaducts, and all other public thoroughfares within the county.
   SUBCHAPTER. A division of a chapter, designated in this code by a heading in
the chapter analysis and a capitalized heading in the body of the chapter,
setting apart a group of sections related by the subject matter of the heading.
Not all chapters have SUBCHAPTERS.
   SWORN. Includes affirmed in all cases in which an affirmation may be
substituted for an oath.
(KRS 446.010(43))
   TENANT or OCCUPANT. As applied to premises, includes any person holding a
written or oral lease, or who actually occupies the whole or any part of the
premises, alone or with others.
   VACANCY IN OFFICE. Exists when there is an unexpired part of a term of
office without a lawful incumbent therein, when the person elected or appointed
to an office fails to qualify according to law, or when there has been no
election to fill the office at the time appointed by law; it applies whether
the vacancy is occasioned by death, resignation, removal from the state,
county, city, or district, or otherwise.
(KRS 446.010(46))
   VIOLATE. Includes failure to comply with.
(KRS 446.010(47))
   YEAR. Calendar year.
(KRS 446.010(49))
§ 10.03 RULES OF CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   Singular includes plural. A word importing the singular number only
may extend and be applied to several persons or things, as well as to one
person or thing, and a word importing the plural number only may extend and be
applied to one person or thing as well as to several persons or things.
(KRS 446.020(1))
   (B)   Masculine includes feminine. A word importing the masculine gender
only may extend and be applied to females as well as males.
(KRS 446.020(2))
   (C)   Liberal construction. All sections of this code shall be liberally
construed with a view to promote their objects and carry out the intent of the
Fiscal Court.
(KRS 446.080(1))
   (D)   Retroactivity. No ordinance shall be construed to be retroactive,
unless expressly so declared.
(KRS 446.080(3))
   (E)   Technical terms. All words and phrases shall be construed according to
the common and approved usage of language, but technical words and phrases, and
others as may have acquired a peculiar and appropriate meaning in the law,
shall be construed according to that meaning.
(KRS 446.080(4))
§ 10.04 COMPUTATION OF TIME.
   (A)   In computing any period of time prescribed or allowed by order of
court, or by any applicable ordinance or regulation, the day of the act, event,
or default after which the designated period of time begins to run is not to be
included. The last day of the period so computed is to be included, unless it
is a Saturday, a Sunday, a legal holiday, or a day on which the public office
in which a document is required to be filed is actually and legally closed, in
which event the period runs until the end of the next day which is not one of
the days just mentioned. When the period of time prescribed or allowed is less
than seven days, intermediate Saturdays, Sundays, and legal holidays shall be
excluded in the computation.
   (B)   When an ordinance, regulation, or order of court requires an act to be
done either a certain time before an event or a certain time before the day on
which an event occurs, the day of the event shall be excluded in computing the
time. If the day thereby computed on which or by which the act is required to
be done falls on a Saturday, Sunday, legal holiday, or a day on which the
public office in which the act is required to be completed is actually and
legally closed, the act may be done on the next day which is none of the days
just mentioned.
   (C)   If any proceeding is directed by law to take place, or any act is
directed to be done, on a particular day of a month and that day is Sunday, the
proceeding shall take place, or the act shall be done, on the next day that is
not a legal holiday.
(KRS 446.030)
   (D)   In all cases where the law requires any act to be done in a reasonable
time or reasonable notice to be given, REASONABLE TIME OR NOTICE shall mean the
time only as may be necessary for the prompt performance of the duty or
compliance with the notice.
§ 10.05 MAJORITY MAY ACT FOR ALL; AUTHORIZED AGENT.
   (A)   Words giving authority to three or more public officers or other
persons shall be construed as giving the authority to a majority of the
officers or other persons.
(KRS 446.050)
   (B)   When the law requires an act to be done which may by law as well be
done by an agent as by the principal, the requirement shall be construed to
include those acts when done by an authorized agent.
§ 10.06 WRITINGS AND SIGNATURES.
   (A)   When this code requires any writing to be signed by a party thereto,
it shall not be deemed to be signed unless the signature is subscribed at the
end or close of the writing.
   (B)   Every writing contemplated by this code shall be in the English
language.
(KRS 446.060)
§ 10.07 SEVERABILITY.
   It shall be considered that it is the intent of the Fiscal Court in enacting
any ordinance, that if any part of the ordinance be held unconstitutional the
remaining parts shall remain in force, unless the ordinance provides otherwise,
or unless the remaining parts are so essentially and inseparably connected with
and dependent upon the unconstitutional part that it is apparent that the
Fiscal Court would not have enacted the remaining parts without the
unconstitutional part; or unless the remaining parts, standing alone, are
incomplete and incapable of being executed in accordance with the intent of the
Fiscal Court.
(KRS 446.090)
§ 10.08 REVIVOR.
   (A)   A repealed ordinance without a delayed effective date is revived when
the ordinance that repealed it is repealed by another ordinance enacted at the
same meeting of the Fiscal Court.
   (B)   A repealed ordinance with a delayed effective date is revived by the
enactment of a repealer of the ordinance that repealed it at the same or any
subsequent meeting of the Fiscal Court as long as it takes effect prior to the
effective date of the original repealer.
   (C)   An amended ordinance without a delayed effective date remains
unchanged with respect to an amendment which is repealed at the same meeting of
the Fiscal Court which enacted the amendment.
   (D)   An amended ordinance with a delayed effective date remains unchanged
with respect to that amendment if the ordinance making the amendment is
repealed at the same or at a subsequent meeting of the Fiscal Court, as long as
the repealing ordinance takes effect prior to the effective date of the
original amendment.
   (E)   No other action of the Fiscal Court repealing a repealer or an
amendment shall have the effect of reviving the original language of the
repealer or amendment, as the case may be.
(KRS 446.100)
§ 10.09 RIGHTS AND LIABILITIES ACCRUING BEFORE REPEAL OF ORDINANCE.
   No new ordinance shall be construed to repeal a former ordinance as to any
offense committed against a former ordinance, nor as to any act done, or
penalty, forfeiture, or punishment incurred, or any right accrued or claim
arising under the former ordinance, or in any way whatever to affect any
offense or act so committed or done, or any penalty, forfeiture, or punishment
so incurred, or any right accrued or claim arising before the new ordinance
takes effect, except that the proceedings thereafter had shall conform, so far
as practicable, to the laws in force at the time of the proceedings. If any
penalty, forfeiture, or punishment is mitigated by any provision of the new
ordinance, the provision may, by the consent of the party affected, be applied
to any judgment pronounced after the new ordinance takes effect.
(KRS 446.110)
§ 10.10 CONSTRUCTION OF SECTION REFERENCES.
   (A)   Wherever in a penalty section reference is made to a violation of a
section or an inclusive group of sections, the reference shall be construed to
mean a violation of any provision of the section or sections included in the
reference.
   (B)   References in the code to action taken or authorized under designated
sections of the code include, in every case, action taken or authorized under
the applicable legislative provision which is superseded by this code.
   (C)   Whenever in one section reference is made to another section hereof,
the reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified, or renumbered, unless the subject matter be
changed or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
§ 10.11 ORDINANCES REPEALED.
   This code, from and after its effective date, shall contain all of the
provisions of a general nature pertaining to the subjects herein enumerated and
embraced. All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated by this code
shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date of this code of
ordinances.
§ 10.12 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature, and all other ordinances
pertaining to subjects not enumerated and embraced in this code of ordinances,
shall remain in full force and effect unless herein repealed expressly or by
necessary implication.
§ 10.13 ORDINANCES SAVED.
   Whenever an ordinance by its nature either authorizes or enables the Fiscal
Court, or a certain county officer or employee, to make additional ordinances
or regulations for the purpose of carrying out the intent of the ordinance, all
ordinances and regulations of a similar nature serving the purpose effected
prior to the codification and not inconsistent thereto shall remain in effect
and are saved.
§ 10.14 AMENDMENTS TO CODE; AMENDATORY LANGUAGE.
   Any chapter, section, or division amended or added to this code by
ordinances passed subsequent to this code may be numbered in accordance with
the numbering system of this code and printed for inclusion herein. Any
chapter, section, or division repealed by subsequent ordinances may be excluded
from this code by omission from reprinted pages. Subsequent ordinances as
printed or omitted shall be prima facie evidence of the subsequent ordinances
until the Fiscal Court shall adopt a new code of ordinances.
§ 10.15 CONFLICTING PROVISIONS.
   If the provisions of different codes, chapters, or sections of the codified
ordinances conflict with or contravene each other, the provisions bearing the
latest passage date shall prevail. If the conflicting provisions bear the same
passage date, the conflict shall be so construed as to be consistent with the
meaning or legal effect of the questions of the subject matter taken as a
whole.
§ 10.16 REFERENCE TO OFFICES.
   Reference to a public office or officer shall be deemed to apply to any
office, officer, or employee of the county exercising the powers, duties, or
functions contemplated in the provision, irrespective of any transfer of
functions or change in the official title of the functionary.
§ 10.17 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   (A)   If a manifest error be discovered, consisting of the misspelling of
any word or words, the omission of any word or words necessary to express the
intention of the provisions affected, the use of a word or words to which no
meaning can be attached, or the use of a word or words when another word or
words was clearly intended to express the intention, the spelling shall be
corrected, and the word or words supplied, omitted, or substituted as will
conform with the manifest intention, and the provision shall have the same
effect as though the correct words were contained in the text as originally
published.
   (B)   No alteration shall be made or permitted if any question exists
regarding the nature or extent of the error.
§ 10.18 HISTORICAL AND STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   As histories for the code sections, the specific number and passage
date of the original ordinance, and the amending ordinances, if any, are listed
following the text of the code section. Example:
      (Ord. 10, passed 5-13-1960; Ord. 15, passed 1-1-1970; Ord. 20, passed 1-
1-1980; Ord. 25, passed 1-1-1985)
   (B)   If a KRS cite is included in the history, this indicates that the text
of the section reads either verbatim or substantially the same as the statute.
Example:
(KRS 83A.090)
   (C)   If a KRS cite is set forth as a “statutory reference” following the
text of the section, this indicates that the reader should refer to that
statute for further information. Example:
      § 39.01 PUBLIC RECORDS AVAILABLE.
      This municipality shall make available to any person for inspection
      or copying all public records, unless otherwise exempted by state law.
      Statutory reference:
         Inspection of public records, see KRS 61.870 et seq.
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   Where an act or omission is prohibited or declared unlawful in this code of
ordinances, and no penalty is otherwise provided, the offense shall be deemed a
violation, and the offender shall be fined not more than $250 for each offense.
Cross-reference:
   Fine schedule for administrative offenses, see §
33.197
Statutory reference:
   Enforcement of ordinances, see KRS 83A.065
   Maximum fine for violations, see KRS 534.040(2)(c)
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   GOVERNMENT ORGANIZATION
      
31.   FISCAL COURT
      
32.   FINANCIAL ADMINISTRATION
      
33.   DEPARTMENTS, BOARDS, AND COMMISSIONS
      
34.   PERSONNEL ADMINISTRATION
      
35.   CODE OF ETHICS
      
36.   COUNTY POLICIES
      
37.   AFFIRMATIVE ACTION
      
38.   TAXATION
      
39.   EMERGENCY TELEPHONE SERVICE
CHAPTER 30: GOVERNMENT ORGANIZATION
Section
   
30.01   Organizational chart to be prepared
   
30.02   Annual review required
   
30.03   Reorganization recommendation; plan
   
30.04   Examination of records
   
30.05   Procedures for reports to Fiscal Court on county departments and
agencies
§ 30.01 ORGANIZATIONAL CHART TO BE PREPARED.
   The County Judge/Executive shall prepare and submit to the Fiscal Court an
organizational chart showing the agencies and departments of county government
and their organization. The organizational chart shall show the relationship of
each agency and department and the lines of authority within county government.
(Prior Code, § 20.001) (Ord. passed 6-13-1994)
§ 30.02 ANNUAL REVIEW REQUIRED.
   The County Judge/Executive shall annually review the government organization
and may recommend reorganization of any agency or department by the Fiscal
Court as provided in §
30.03.
(Prior Code, § 20.002) (Ord. passed 6-13-1994)
§ 30.03 REORGANIZATION RECOMMENDATION; PLAN.
   (A)   A reorganization recommendation shall include, but shall not be
limited to, the following:
      (1)   Specific measurable goals and time period indicated for meeting of
each goal;
      (2)   A list of services to be expanded, abolished, or reduced as a
result of the plan and the impact the plan will have on other services;
      (3)   The cost, both long term and short term, of the changes proposed;
and
      (4)   The effect the plan will have on any personnel or facilities.
   (B)   The reorganization plan shall be submitted to the Fiscal Court for
review and available for public inspection 60 days prior to its effective date.
(Prior Code, § 20.003) (Ord. passed 6-13-1994)
§ 30.04 EXAMINATION OF RECORDS.
   The Judge/Executive or Fiscal Court may cause the records and accounts of
any administrative agency to be examined at any time.
(Prior Code, § 20.004) (Ord. passed 6-13-1994)
§ 30.05 PROCEDURES FOR REPORTS TO FISCAL COURT ON COUNTY DEPARTMENTS AND
AGENCIES.
   Upon request, the head of each county department, agency, or commission
shall provide the Judge/Executive with the following information:
   (A)   A statement which describes the activities of the department or agency
during the month, and evaluates those activities in relation to agency or
departmental objectives;
   (B)   A financial statement for each agency or department. The financial
statement shall contain the total amount of appropriations for the agency or
department, the amount spent and encumbered by the department or agency during
the preceding month, the total amount encumbered during the fiscal year, and
the amount of the total appropriation which is still available for spending;
and
   (C)   A list of any citizen’s complaints made to the agency or department
during the preceding month and the steps taken by the agency or department to
correct the situation.
(Prior Code, § 20.005) (Ord. passed 6-13-1994)
CHAPTER 31: FISCAL COURT
Section
   
31.01   Regular and special meetings
   
31.02   Presiding officer
   
31.03   Quorum
   
31.04   Disturbing meetings
   
31.05   Order of business
   
31.06   Fiscal Court records and minutes
   
31.07   Rules of order
   
31.08   County ordinances, orders, and resolutions
   
31.09   Court resolutions
   
31.10   Reapportionment of Magisterial Districts
   
31.11   Personnel manual
 
   
31.99   Penalty
§ 31.01 REGULAR AND SPECIAL MEETINGS.
   (A)   Regular meetings.
      (1)    Regular meetings of the County Fiscal Court shall be held in the
County Fiscal Courtroom at Winchester, Kentucky, the second Wednesday morning
of each month at 8:30 a.m., and the fourth Thursday evening of each month at 5:
30 p.m.
      (2)   Provided, however, that if the regular meeting day or date falls on
a legal holiday, the meeting shall take place on the next regular working day
at the same place and hour.
      (3)   All meetings of the Fiscal Court at which any public business is
discussed or any action taken shall be open to the public at all times except
as otherwise permitted by KRS 61.810.
   (B)   Special meetings.
      (1)   The County Judge/Executive may call a special meeting of the Fiscal
Court for the purpose of transacting any business over which the Fiscal Court
has jurisdiction.
      (2)   Whenever a special meeting is necessary and the Judge/Executive is
unable, or refuses to act, a majority of the Fiscal Court (or two
Commissioners) may call it, if, in their opinion, the need exists.
      (3)   A special meeting may be called by the Judge/Executive or a
majority of the members of the Fiscal Court by delivering personally, or by
mail, written notice to each member and to each local newspaper, of general
circulation, each news service and each local radio or television station which
has on file with the Fiscal Court a written request to be notified of special
meetings.
      (4)   Notice of the special meeting must be delivered at least 24 hours
prior to the time of the meeting as specified in the notice.
      (5)   If time does not permit giving 24 hours’ notice, then notice that
is reasonable under the circumstances and calculated to inform the public shall
be given the news media and the public.
      (6)   It shall be the responsibility of the County Judge/Executive to
prepare and distribute the proper notices.
(Prior Code, § 21.001) (Ord. passed 6-13-1994; Ord. 2007-3, passed 2-14-2007;
Ord. 2019-01, passed 2-27-2019; Ord. 2024-1, passed 1-25-2024)
§ 31.02 PRESIDING OFFICER.
   (A)   The County Judge/Executive shall be the presiding officer of the
Fiscal Court at all regular and special meetings.
   (B)   If a County Judge/Executive is not present or able to preside, a
majority of the Commissioners shall elect one of their number to preside.
(Prior Code, § 21.002) (Ord. passed 6-13-1994)
§ 31.03 QUORUM.
   (A)   No less than a majority of the members of the Fiscal Court shall
constitute a quorum for the transaction of business.
   (B)   No proposition shall be adopted except with the concurrence of at
least a majority of the members present.
(Prior Code, § 21.003) (Ord. passed 6-13-1994)
§ 31.04 DISTURBING MEETINGS.
   It shall be unlawful to disturb any meeting of the Fiscal Court or to behave
in a disorderly manner at any such meeting.
(Prior Code, § 21.004) (Ord. passed 6-13-1994) Penalty, see §
31.99
§ 31.05 ORDER OF BUSINESS.
   (A)   At each meeting of the Fiscal Court, the following regular order of
business shall be observed unless dispensed with by a majority vote of the
members present:
      (1)   Call to order;
      (2)   Roll call;
      (3)   Approve minutes;
      (4)   First and second reading of budget amendments;
      (5)   Approve transfers;
      (6)   Approve bills;
      (7)   Approve Treasurer’s report;
      (8)   Presentations;
      (9)   Ordinances; first and second readings;
      (10)   General orders;
      (11)   Personnel orders;
      (12)   Announcements;
      (13)   Old business;
      (14)   New business and committee reports;
      (15)   Public comment;
      (16)   Adjourn to closed session:
         (a)   Potential litigation KRS 61.810(c);
         (b)   Property acquisition KRS 61.810(b);
         (c)   Personnel matters KRS 61.810(f); and
         (d)   Industrial prospects KRS 61.810(g).
      (17)   Adjournment.
   (B)   The County Judge/Executive shall prepare an agenda for each Fiscal
Court meeting and deliver it to all participants and news media at least 48
hours in advance of any meeting.
   (C)   The County Judge/Executive shall prepare an itemized list of all
claims. The list shall accompany the agenda prepared and delivered by the
County Judge/Executive pursuant to division (B) above.
   (D)   No bill shall be disapproved for payment unless the Fiscal Court
orders, for good cause, that the bill not be paid.
(Prior Code, § 21.005) (Ord. passed 6-13-1994; Ord. 2007-4, passed 2-14-2007)
§ 31.06 FISCAL COURT RECORDS AND MINUTES.
   (A)   The Clerk of the Fiscal Court shall attend all meetings of the Fiscal
Court and keep a full and complete record of its proceedings.
   (B)   The Clerk of the Fiscal Court shall keep an index for all Fiscal Court
records and make such index and records available for public inspection in
accordance with KRS 61.870 to 61.884.
(Prior Code, § 21.006) (Ord. passed 6-13-1994)
§ 31.07 RULES OF ORDER.
   (A)   Except when in conflict with the foregoing provisions, Robert’s Rules
of Order shall govern the deliberations of the Fiscal Court.
   (B)   The rules of order, other than those prescribed by statute, may be
suspended at any time by consent of a majority of the members present at the
meeting.
(Prior Code, § 21.007) (Ord. passed 6-13-1994)
§ 31.08 COUNTY ORDINANCES, ORDERS, AND RESOLUTIONS.
   (A)   A county ordinance is an official act of the Fiscal Court of a general
and lasting nature which is enforceable within the jurisdiction of the county
or a lawful appropriation of money.
   (B)   All county ordinances shall be adopted in conformity with KRS 67.075
to 67.077, except that emergency ordinances may be adopted as provided in KRS
67.078.
   (C)   (1)   A court order is an official act of the Fiscal Court of a more
transient nature than that of an ordinance.
      (2)   Court orders may be passed by a majority vote of the members of the
Fiscal Court present, provided there is a quorum present.
(KRS 67.078(1))
      (3)   Court orders shall be used to direct the County Judge/Executive or
a county employee to perform the acts desired by the Fiscal Court which shall
include court resolutions.
(Prior Code, § 21.008) (Ord. passed 6-13-1994)
§ 31.09 COURT RESOLUTIONS.
   Court resolutions express the position or sentiment of the court about a
particular subject and may be transmitted to some individual or body to convey
that position or sentiment. A resolution may be adopted by a majority vote of
the members of the Fiscal Court present, provided there is a quorum present.
(Prior Code, § 21.009) (Ord. passed 6-13-1994)
§ 31.10 REAPPORTIONMENT OF MAGISTERIAL DISTRICTS.
   (A)   The reapportionment plan for the Justice of the Peace Districts for
the county, as presented by the Commissioners appointed under the provisions of
KRS 67.045, as set forth in their written report dated November 6, 1982, and
March 17, 1992, is hereby made a part of and incorporated and adopted herein by
reference. Pursuant to the report, the county is hereby divided into seven
Magisterial Districts as set forth on certain maps which are hereby made a part
of and incorporated herein by reference.
   (B)   The district boundaries of the county shall be redrawn and the
precincts of the county be reappointed to comply with the voter charge to
create six magisterial voting districts.
(Prior Code, § 21.010) (Ord. 82-9, passed 12-8-1982; Ord. 92-2, passed 5-13-
1992; Ord. 2013-9, passed 8-14-2013)
§ 31.11 PERSONNEL MANUAL.
   The personnel manual of the County Fiscal Court, copies of which are on file
in the office of the County Clerk, is adopted and incorporated as part of this
code of ordinances as fully as if set out a length herein.
(Ord. 2004-5, passed 3-10-2004; Ord. 2004-6, passed 3-10-2004; Ord. 2004-11,
passed 5-26-2004; Ord. 2005-15, passed 8-10-2005; Ord. 2006-11, passed 10-11-
2006; Ord. 2007-5, passed 2-14-2007; Ord. 2007- 7, passed 2-28-2007; Ord. 2007-
12, passed 5-9-2007; Ord. 2007-13, passed 5-9-2007; Ord. 2007-14, passed 5-9-
2007; Ord. 2020-01, passed 2-12-2020; Ord. 2020-05, passed 9-9-2020)
§ 31.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person violating any provision of §
31.04 shall be fined not less than $1 nor more than $10 for each offense.
(Prior Code, § 21.004) (Ord. passed 6-13-1994)
CHAPTER 32: FINANCIAL ADMINISTRATION
Section
Fiscal Management
   
32.01   Budget preparation
   
32.02   Fiscal management
   
32.03   Procedures for County Treasurer
   
32.04   Procedures for administration of the budget by the County Judge/
Executive
   
32.05   Claims against the county
Purchasing
   
32.20   Purchase and contracting function
   
32.21   Authorization of county contracts
   
32.22   Selection of vendors and contracts
   
32.23   Procedures for determination of qualification of bidders
   
32.24   Procedures prerequisite to use of negotiated process
   
32.25   Procedures for negotiated process
   
32.26   Small purchase procedures
   
32.27   Storage and inventory control
   
32.28   Procedure for disposition of surplus property
   
32.29   Local procurement policy for CDGB Program
 
   
32.99   Penalty
FISCAL MANAGEMENT
§ 32.01 BUDGET PREPARATION.
   (A)   The County Judge/Executive shall prepare the county budget for review
and adoption by the Fiscal Court as provided by KRS Chapter 68 and the rules
and regulations of the state local finance office.
   (B)   By April 1 of each year, each county agency and department and each
county office, board, or commissioner, or other group that receives county
funds, shall submit to the County Judge/Executive a written budget request
showing the amount of funds requested and containing a brief explanation of the
need for such funds.
(Prior Code, § 22.001) (Ord. passed 6-13-1994)
§ 32.02 FISCAL MANAGEMENT.
   The County Treasurer (or some other financial officer) shall invest and
reinvest county funds as provided in KRS 66.480.
(Prior Code, § 22.002) (Ord. passed 6-13-1994)
§ 32.03 PROCEDURES FOR COUNTY TREASURER.
   (A)   Claims against the county that are within budgeted line item amounts
and that arise under duly authorized contracts are to be paid by checks co-
signed by the County Judge/Executive and the Treasurer.
   (B)   No expenditures may be made in excess of revenues or for purposes
other than appropriated.
   (C)   No appropriations may be made which exceed adopted budget amounts.
   (D)   The Treasurer shall keep a record of each budget appropriation, all
expenditures from that appropriation, and each budget fund. This record is
called the Appropriation Expenditure Ledger.
   (E)   The Treasurer shall maintain a General Ledger in which all
transactions are entered, either in detail or in summary. Each fund (General
Fund, Road Fund, Jail Fund, Local Government Economic Assistance (LGEA) Fund,
and the like) has a complete balancing set of General Ledger Accounts. Control
Accounts are established for the Cash Receipts Register and the Appropriation
Expenditure Ledger.
   (F)   The Treasurer shall maintain a Cash Receipts Register containing
columns for total cash received, source of revenue, and miscellaneous revenue
for each fund.
   (G)   The Treasurer shall maintain an Appropriation Expenditure Ledger. This
ledger is a group of accounts supporting in detail the appropriation and
expenditure accounts of the General Ledger. An account must be provided for
each appropriation made in the budget. The original appropriation shall be
entered and all amendments and transfers authorized by order of the Fiscal
Court. All expenditures shall be charged to an Appropriation Expenditure
Account.
   (H)   The Treasurer shall maintain a record of all warrants paid (except
payroll) in chronological order in a Warrant Distribution Register. Columns are
provided for date, payee, warrant number, appropriation expenditure account
number, and amount. Separate columns are provided for each fund so that one
register serves all funds.
   (I)   The Treasurer shall maintain a Payroll Authorization Book which is
designed to facilitate convenient preparation and certification of the payroll.
One order of the Fiscal Court may be made to authorize payment for all
employees for more than one payroll period.
   (J)   The Treasurer shall maintain an Individual Earnings Record for each
employee, including gross earnings, deductions, and net pay at the time
computed.
   (K)   The Treasurer shall maintain a Notes Payable Register which provides
information on notes for temporary loans in anticipation of the current year’s
revenue, indicating the principal amount, interest rate, and due date.
   (L)   The Treasurer shall maintain a Bond Register which records the history
and authorization of each bond issue, whether general obligation bonds, revenue
bonds, or special levy bond. A separate sheet shall be prepared for each issue.
(Prior Code, § 22.003) (Ord. passed 6-13-1994)
§ 32.04 PROCEDURES FOR ADMINISTRATION OF THE BUDGET BY THE COUNTY JUDGE/
EXECUTIVE.
   (A)   The County Judge/Executive shall administer the county budget as
provided by state law.
   (B)   At the beginning of each fiscal year, the total amount of the
appropriation represents the “free balance”, or unused appropriations amount
for each account. As expenditures are made during the year, the amount of the
expenditure is subtracted from the free balance to keep an accurate record of
the exact amount of the unused appropriation at any time.
   (C)   When at item is ordered, the free balance is encumbered in that amount
although it may be considerable time before the actual expenditure occurs.
   (D)   The Judge/Executive or department head shall write and sign all
warrants directing the Treasurer to make a payment for claims within budgeted
amounts and arising under contracts authorized by the Fiscal Court, and shall
maintain a record of such warrants.
(Prior Code, § 22.004) (Ord. passed 6-13-1994)
§ 32.05 CLAIMS AGAINST THE COUNTY.
   (A)   All claims for payment from the county shall be filed in writing and
in a form prescribed by the County Judge/Executive.
   (B)   Each claim shall be recorded by date or receipt and presented to the
Fiscal Court at its next meeting.
   (C)   Each claim shall designate the budget fund and classification from
which the claim will be paid and each warrant shall specify the budget fund and
classification.
   (D)   Each order of the Fiscal Court disapproving a claim shall state the
reason for the disapproval of the claim.
   (E)   The payroll for county officials and regular county employees, as well
as other recurring payments such as interest and principal on bonded debt,
monthly utility bills, and completed contracts approved by the County Fiscal
Court that the Fiscal Court may designate shall not require monthly Fiscal
Court approval.
(Prior Code, § 22.005) (Ord. passed 6-13-1994)
PURCHASING
§ 32.20 PURCHASE AND CONTRACTING FUNCTION.
   (A)   The purchase and contracting function includes the negotiation and
execution of all contracts for supplies, services, and construction, and the
administration of the county purchasing system. The County Judge/Executive is
responsible for this function but may delegate to a purchasing officer or
department any of the tasks involved:
      (1)   Prepare specifications, invitations to bid, solicitations for
proposals, and awards of contracts;
      (2)   Conduct a reasonable inquiry and make a written determination of
responsibility for bidders and offerors; and maintain a list of prequalified
responsible contractors for particular types of supplies, services, and
construction items;
      (3)   Prepare a written finding as to the need for use of the negotiated
process rather than sealed bids where the negotiated process is appropriate,
and compile an annual report of all contracts made through negotiation during
the fiscal year;
      (4)   Notify suppliers, through advertisement or other permissible
methods, of invitations to bid and solicitations for proposals;
      (5)   Open bids and determine the responsiveness of each bid, conduct
appropriate negotiations with offerors, and select the supplier or contractor
which is most advantageous to the county;
      (6)   Cancel any invitation to bid upon a written determination that such
action is in the best interest of the county;
      (7)   Inspect the place of business and any operation and examine any
financial information of any offeror engaged in the negotiated process with the
county; and cause an audit to be made of any contractor under a negotiated
contract; and
      (8)   Store all supplies as needed and maintain an inventory and
accounting of all property of the county.
   (B)   Purchasing and contract procedures shall be handled in accordance with
the provisions of the Kentucky Model Procurement Code as set forth in KRS
45A.345 to 45A.400, or as thereafter amended.
(Prior Code, § 22.100) (Ord. passed 6-13-1994; Ord. 2002-16, passed 7-31-2002)
§ 32.21 AUTHORIZATION OF COUNTY CONTRACTS.
   (A)   Every contract, change, or amendment thereto, of the county, shall be
authorized or approved by the Fiscal Court before it is executed by the Judge/
Executive.
   (B)   Every contract of the county, except small purchases, shall be
approved by the County Attorney as to form and legality.
(Prior Code, § 22.101) (Ord. passed 6-13-1994)
§ 32.22 SELECTION OF VENDORS AND CONTRACTS.
   (A)   The agency, department, or person requiring supplies, services, or
construction shall submit to the purchasing officer a written request
containing specifications and quantities desired.
   (B)   The purchasing officer shall determine the need for items requested,
the approximate cost and whether or not the expenditure is provided for in the
budget.
   (C)   If bidding is required by statute or by order of Fiscal Court, the
Judge/Executive or the purchasing officer shall place an advertisement in the
newspaper of largest circulation in the county at least once not less than
seven nor more than 21 days before bid opening. The advertisement shall include
the time and place the bids will be opened, and the time and place where the
specifications may be obtained.
   (D)   If the durability of the product, the quality of service, or other
factors are to be considered in bid selection, such factors shall be stated in
the advertisement.
   (E)   The Judge/Executive shall open all bids publicly at the time and place
stated in the advertisement; and shall select the lowest and best bid by a
qualified bidder. If the lowest bid is not selected, the reasons for the
selection shall be stated in writing.
   (F)   The Judge/Executive shall submit the bid selected to the Fiscal Court
for approval and thereafter shall notify, in writing, all bidders of the award.
   (G)   The Judge/Executive shall sign the contract, if one is used, and shall
issue a purchase order to vendors and retain two copies.
   (H)   When items are delivered, the invoice shall be placed in a file by
vendor’s name; when payment is made, one copy of the purchase order shall be
placed in the vendor’s file and one filed in numerical order with other paid
purchase orders.
   (I)   The purchasing officer shall enter the amount of the expenditure in
the purchases ledger.
(Prior Code, § 22.102) (Ord. passed 6-13-1994)
§ 32.23 PROCEDURES FOR DETERMINATION OF QUALIFICATION OF BIDDERS.
   (A)   Each bidder or offeror shall furnish, on prescribed forms, information
pertaining to all contracts completed in the past two years and financial
institutions used.
   (B)   The purchasing officer shall contact at least one purchaser listed by
the bidder or offeror to verify the record of performance.
   (C)   A credit check may be made through an established organization and the
information compared with the information furnished by the bidder/offeror.
   (D)   In the event the information is conflicting or incomplete, the
purchasing officer shall make further inquiry of the bidder/offeror, including
inspection of the place of business or examination of the bonds or records.
   (E)   The contractors who have demonstrated by past performance the ability
to perform satisfactorily in accordance with contracts on a timely basis and
have shown a sound financial structure shall be qualified as responsible.
   (F)   The purchasing officer shall make a written determination as to the
extent of responsibility of each bidder/offeror and shall maintain a list of
those who qualify as responsible contractors for particular types of supplies,
services, and construction items.
   (G)   The purchasing officer shall inform prospective contractors of the
pre-qualification procedures and encourage them to supply the information
required for pre-qualification.
   (H)   A new or small business, particularly a minority enterprise, may be
exempt from the qualification requirements where circumstances warrant.
(Prior Code, § 22.103) (Ord. passed 6-11-1994)
§ 32.24 PROCEDURES PREREQUISITE TO USE OF NEGOTIATED PROCESS.
   (A)   The negotiated process may be used instead of advertisement for bids
in which the amounts exceed $30,000 in the following circumstances:
      (1)   An emergency exists;
      (2)   The contract is for professional services; and
      (3)   All bids received exceed the amount budgeted.
   (B)   Before an emergency is declared, the purchasing officer shall
determine whether or not the delay in obtaining bids will result in danger to
health, safety, or property and submit such determination to the Judge/
Executive.
   (C)   The Judge/Executive shall certify the existence of any emergency and
file a copy of such certificate with the chief financial officer of the county.
   (D)   A professional service is one performed by a licensed professional and
an activity for which the license is required.
   (E)   In the event all bids submitted are in excess of funds available, the
Judge/Executive or purchasing officer shall prepare a written determination
that there are no additional funds available so as to permit an award to the
responsible bidder with the lowest and best bid and delay in advertising for
additional bids is not in the best interest of the county.
(Prior Code, § 22.104) (Ord. passed 6-13-1994)
§ 32.25 PROCEDURES FOR NEGOTIATED PROCESS.
   (A)   When the prerequisites have been met for use of the negotiated
process, the Judge/Executive or purchasing officer shall proceed to negotiate
with one or more suppliers in order to obtain the most advantageous terms for
the county.
   (B)   The Judge/Executive or purchasing officer shall prepare a record of
all negotiated contracts, showing the items and quantities acquired, name of
suppliers, cost, and date of contract.
   (C)   Professional services shall be negotiated with such persons as are
properly licensed to perform such services and shall be limited to those
services to which the license applies.
   (D)   Where there has already been a bid process and more than one bid was
received and all were in excess of the amount available, the lowest three
bidders shall be notified that the county desires to negotiate a contract for a
lesser amount based on revised quantities or specifications and fix a time for
submission of proposals.
   (E)   The Judge/Executive or purchasing officer shall examine the proposals
received and shall negotiate with the suppliers for the terms most advantageous
to the county.
   (F)   The best negotiated proposal shall be submitted to the Fiscal Court
for approval and award.
   (G)   The Judge/Executive or purchasing officer shall notify all persons
submitting a proposal that the award has been made.
(Prior Code, § 22.105) (Ord. passed 6-13-1994)
§ 32.26 SMALL PURCHASE PROCEDURES.
   (A)   The Judge/Executive or purchasing officer determines the need for any
item requested and whether or not the contract is for less than $30,000 and the
expenditure is provided for in the budget.
   (B)   The purchasing officer obtains three price quotes from vendors and
selects the one most advantageous to the county.
   (C)   Four copies of the purchase order are prepared; one for the vendor,
one for the agency requesting the items, and two for the Judge/Executive.
   (D)   The purchasing officer enters the anticipated expenditures in the
small purchase ledger.
   (E)   After payment is made, the purchasing officer files one copy of the
purchase order in numerical sequence and the other copy alphabetically by
vendor’s invoice.
   (F)   The purchasing officer enters the actual amount of expenditure in the
ledger.
(Prior Code, § 22.106) (Ord. passed 6-13-1994)
§ 32.27 STORAGE AND INVENTORY CONTROL.
   (A)   The purchasing officer is responsible for the receipt and inspection
of all property and supplies to be stored.
   (B)   Each item shall be inspected upon receipt and all items which do not
conform to specification shall be rejected with a written notice of such
rejection given to the vendor within 30 days.
   (C)   All supplies shall be stored in a central location under the
supervision of the purchasing officer and according to the appropriate group
classification.
   (D)   Stock cards shall be used for such items, showing the receipts,
issues, remaining balance, and date; and such cards shall be kept in a central
file and attached in a visible place on each property bin.
   (E)   Every transaction shall be recorded as soon as it occurs.
   (F)   Inventory shall be maintained by actual county.
   (G)   Sufficient stores of supplies shall be maintained to meet the
anticipated needs of all departments.
(Prior Code, § 22.107) (Ord. passed 6-13-1994)
§ 32.28 PROCEDURE FOR DISPOSITION OF SURPLUS PROPERTY.
   (A)   The Judge/Executive shall prepare a written statement which describes
the property, including the date of acquisition and its intended use at the
time.
   (B)   The statement shall include the proposed disposition of the property
and the reasons such a disposition is in the public interest.
   (C)   The statement shall include the present use of the property and
evidence of consultation with the person having custody or control.
   (D)   The method of disposition shall be stated, and whether it is to be
transferred to another governmental agency or to a private concern;
compensation, if any, to be received; and whether it is to be sold at public
auction, by sealed bids, or through negotiations.
   (E)   If the property is to be sold through negotiations, the property shall
be appraised by at least two competent and independent appraisers and the
appraisals attached. No property shall be sold on a negotiated basis for less
than the appraised value.
(Prior Code, § 22.108) (Ord. passed 6-13-1994)
§ 32.29 LOCAL PROCUREMENT POLICY FOR CDGB PROGRAM.
   (A)   General provisions.
      (1)   All procurements made by the County Fiscal Court (hereafter
referred to as “LPA”) involving the expenditure of state Community Development
Block Grant Funds will be made in accordance with the following procurement
standards.
      (2)   Procurement transactions, regardless of method or dollar value,
will maximize open and free competition. The county shall not engage in
procurement practices which may be considered restrictive in trade.
      (3)   Purchases will be reviewed by the County Judge/Executive of the LPA
to prevent duplication and to ensure that costs are reasonable.
   (B)   Methods for procurement. Procurements shall be made by one of the
following methods: small purchase procedures, competitive sealed bids,
competitive negotiation, or non-competitive negotiation.
      (1)   Small purchases. Purchases of supplies, equipment, and services
which cost over $200 but less than $30,000 will require no legal advertisement.
The LPA will solicit telephone responses from at least three vendors. Purchases
that cost between $40 and $200 require three over-the-telephone quotations of
rate, price, and the like. A memorandum will be prepared setting forth the date
the calls were made, parties contacted, and prices obtained. For purchase of
less than $50, efforts will be made to get the lowest and best price, but
written records of such efforts are not necessary.
      (2)   Competitive sealed bids.
         (a)   Bidding will be employed when detailed specifications for the
goods or services to be procured can be prepared and the primary basis for
award is cost. When the cost of a contract, lease, or other agreement for
materials, supplies, equipment, or contractual services other than those
personal or professional exceeds $30,000, an invitation for bids (IFB) notice
will generally be prepared. This notice will be published at least once in at
least one official newspaper of general circulation within the community. This
newspaper notice will appear not less than seven days and not more that 21 days
before the due date for bid proposals. The Agency may also solicit sealed bids
from responsible prospective suppliers by sending them a copy of such notice.
         (b)   The IFB will include a general description of the goods or
services to be procured, the bid deposit and bond performance required (if
applicable), the location where bid forms and specifications may be secured,
the time and place for opening bids, and whether the bid award will be made on
the basis of the lowest bid price or the lowest evaluated price. If the lowest
evaluated price is used, the measurable criteria to be utilized must be stated
in the IFB. The newspaper notice must also contain language which calls to the
attention of bidders all applicable requirements which must be complied with
such as § 3 of the 1968 Housing Act being 12 U.S.C. § 1701a, § 109 of the 1974
Housing and Community Development Act being 42 U.S.C. § 5309, the Civil Rights
Act of 1964, Executive Order 11246, and the Davis-Bacon Act being 40 U.S.C. §§
3141 et seq.
         (c)   In addition to price, the following are bid evaluation criteria
which may be used with varying weight dependent upon the particular procurement
to be made. The criteria and their weights will be established by the IFB:
            1.   The character, integrity, reputation, judgment, experience and
efficiency of the contractor;
            2.   The ability of the vendor to provide material or service
promptly or within the time specified, without delay or interference;
            3.   The quality of performance by the vendor on previous
contracts, orders, or services; and
            4.   The ability of the vendor to provide future maintenance and
service for all equipment purchased from the vendor.
         (d)   The criteria upon which a bid will be awarded will be
established by a review committee, which will include, if possible, persons
with applicable technical skills. The LPA will appoint the reviewers, making
certain that these individuals have no potential conflicts of interest with the
firms or individuals under review. The committee will have no less than three
members. The committee will maintain written records of its deliberations
including an evaluation of each bid received.
         (e)   Sealed bids will be opened in public at the time and place
stated in the IFBs. The bids will be tabulated by the LPA at the time of bid
opening. The results of the tabulation and the bid documents will be evaluated
by the review committee, which will make recommendations to the LPA. The LPA
will make the decision as to whom the contract shall be awarded. After the bid
award is made by the LPA, a contract will be prepared for execution by the
successful bidder. After the contract is signed, all bid deposits will be
returned to all unsuccessful bidders.
         (f)   The LPA may cancel an invitation for bid or reject all bids if
it is determined in writing that such is in the best interests of the LPA. The
LPA may allow a vendor to withdraw a bid if requested at any time prior to the
bid opening. Bids received after the time set for bid opening shall be returned
to the vendor unopened.
   (C)   Competitive negotiation.
      (1)   The LPA will utilize competitive negotiations, regardless of
contract amount, upon a written determination that:
         (a)   Specifications cannot be made specific enough to permit the
award of a bid on the basis of either the lowest bid price or the lowest
evaluated bid price (in other words, bidding is not feasible);
         (b)   The services to be procured are professional or personal in
nature. With the exception of procurement of certain professional services
(principally engineering services), competitive negotiations will proceed as
follows;
         (c)   Proposals will be solicited through newspaper advertisement;
additionally, a request for proposal (RFP) may be prepared and mailed to
qualified vendors. The newspaper advertisement must be published at least seven
days and not more than 21 days before the date for receipt of the proposals.
The RFP will describe services needed and identify the factors to be considered
in the evaluation of proposals and the relative weights assigned to each
selection factor. The RFP will also state where further details regarding the
RFP may be obtained. The RFP will call attention to the same regulations
discussed in the bidding process. Requests for proposals will always include
cost as a selection factor except for engineering services; and
         (d)   Award must be made to the offeror whose proposal is determined
in writing by a review committee to be the most advantageous to the LPA.
Evaluations must be based on the factors set forth in the request for proposal
and a written evaluation of each response prepared. The review committee may
contact the firms regarding their proposals for the purpose of clarification
and record in writing the nature of the clarification. If it is determined that
no acceptable proposal has been submitted, all proposals may be rejected. New
proposals may be solicited on the same or revised terms or the procurement may
be abandoned.
      (2)   For the procurement of certain professional services, an
alternative to RFPs may be used. The LPA may publish a request for
qualifications. RFQs are handled in a similar method to RFPs with the exception
that cost is not a factor in the initial evaluation. A review committee will
evaluate the responses and rank them by comparative qualifications. The highest
scoring person or firm will be contacted and the selection committee will
negotiate cost. If the committee is unable to negotiate a satisfactory cost
arrangement, the second highest scoring person or firm will be invited to
negotiate. The committee will maintain a written record of all such
negotiations.
   (D)   Non-competitive negotiations.
      (1)   Non-competitive negotiations may be used for procurements in excess
of $20,000 when bidding or competitive negotiations are not feasible. The
Agency may purchase goods and services through non-competitive negotiations
when it is determined in writing by the Agency that competitive negotiation or
bidding is not feasible and that:
         (a)   An emergency exists which will cause public harm as a result of
the delay caused by following competitive purchasing procedures;
         (b)   The product or service can be obtained only from one source;
         (c)   The contract is for the purchase of perishable items purchased
on a weekly or more frequent basis;
         (d)   Only one satisfactory proposal is received through RPP or RFQ;
or
         (e)   The state has authorized the particular type of non-competitive
negotiation (example - the procurement of services by an Area Development
District).
      (2)   Procurement by non-competitive negotiation requires the strictest
attention to the observation of impartiality toward all suppliers. The state
must approve all procurements by non- competitive negotiation when only one
supplier is involved or only one bid or response to an RFP/RFQ is received.
   (E)   Contracts. Generally, all procurement in excess of $200 will be
memorialized and supported by a written contract. Where it is infeasible or
impractical to prepare a contract, a written finding to this effect will be
prepared and some form of documentation regarding the transaction will be
prepared. The contractual provisions required by “The Common Rule” will be
included in all contracts.
   (F)   Documentation. All source documents supporting any given transaction
(receipts, purchase orders, invoices, RFP/RPQ data, and bid materials) will be
retained and filed in an appropriate manner. Where feasible, source documents
pertinent to each individual procurement shall be separately filed and
maintained. Where it is infeasible to maintain individual procurement files,
source documents will be filed and maintained in a reasonable manner (examples
include chronologically, by vendor, by type of procurement, and the like).
Whatever form of documentation and filing is employed, the purpose of this
section is to ensure that a clear and consistent audit trail is established. At
a minimum, source document data must be sufficient to establish the basis for
selection, basis for cost (including the issue of reasonableness of cost), and
basis for payment.
   (G)   Locally owned, minority owned, female owned, and small businesses.
Efforts will be made and documented to solicit participation of locally owned,
minority owned, female owned, and small businesses. Where feasible, evaluation
criteria will include a factor with an appropriate weight for these firms. A
list of locally owned, minority owned, female owned, and small businesses and
also minority businesses located within the trade region shall be maintained
and utilized when issuing IFBs, RFPs, and RFQs. This list shall also be
consulted when making small purchases.
   (H)   Code of conduct.
      (1)   Conflict of interest.
         (a)   No elected official, employee, or designated agent of the LPA
will take part or have an interest in the award of any procurement transaction
if a conflict of interest, real or apparent, exists.
         (b)   A conflict of interest occurs when the official, employee, or
designated agent of the LPA, partners of such individuals, immediate family
members, or an organization, which employs or intends to employ any of the
above has a financial or other interest in any of the competing firms.
      (2)   Acceptance of gratitudes. No elected official, employee, or
designated agent of the LPA shall solicit or accept gratitudes, favors, or
anything of monetary value from contractors, potential contractors,
subcontractors, or potential subcontractors.
(Ord. 2004-13, passed 6-28-2004)
§ 32.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   (1)   Any elected official, employee, or designated agent of the LPA
who knowingly and deliberately violates the provisions of §
32.29 will be open to civil suit by the citizens of the county without the
legal protection of the LPA. Furthermore, such a violation of these procurement
standards is grounds for dismissal by the LPA.
      (2)   Any contractor or potential contractor who knowingly and
deliberately violates the provisions of these procurement standards will be
barred from future transactions with the LPA.
(Ord. 2004-13, passed 6-28-2004)
CHAPTER 33: DEPARTMENTS, BOARDS, AND COMMISSIONS
Section
County Road Department
   
33.001   Establishment
   
33.002   Road Engineer; duties
   
33.003   County road inventory
   
33.004   Specifications for county roads
   
33.005   Road department property
Winchester-Clark County Commission on Human Rights
   
33.020   Policy
   
33.021   Definitions
   
33.022   Commission created; appointment; term; compensation
   
33.023   Functions
   
33.024   Powers; duties
   
33.025   Cooperation of city and county departments
   
33.026   Election of officers
   
33.027   Expenditures
   
33.028   Office space
   
33.029   Relationship with state’s Commission on Human Rights
Winchester-Clark County Parks and Recreation Board
   
33.040   Established
   
33.041   Membership; appointment; term
   
33.042   Compensation
   
33.043   Election of officers; bond
   
33.044   Powers
Extension Board
   
33.055   Board; district created
   
33.056   Membership; appointment; term
Winchester-Clark County Recreational, Tourist, and Convention Commission
   
33.070   Commission created
   
33.071   Composition; appointment; term
   
33.072   Organization; duties; responsibilities
   
33.073   Operation
Other Departments, Boards, and Commissions
   
33.085   Board of Adjustment
   
33.086   Ethics Commission
   
33.087   Planning Commission
   
33.088   911 Advisory Board
Community Visioning Committee
   
33.100   Establishment
   
33.101   Duties
   
33.102   Powers
   
33.103   Composition
Animal Shelter
   
33.115   Establishment
   
33.116   Personnel; duties
   
33.117   Operations
   
33.118   Services; fees
Clark County-Winchester Heritage Commission
   
33.130   Commission established
   
33.131   Membership
   
33.132   Purpose
   
33.133   Duties
   
33.134   Implementation of duties
   
33.135   Funds
County Cemetery Board
   
33.150   Board established
   
33.151   Meetings
   
33.152   Composition of Board
   
33.153   Administration of funds
   
33.154   Qualifications for assistance
Winchester-Clark County 911 Addressing Committee
   
33.165   Committee established
   
33.166   Purpose of Committee
   
33.167   Authority and powers
   
33.168   Membership
   
33.169   Initial representatives
Administrative Hearing Board
   
33.180   Title
   
33.181   Purpose
   
33.182   Definitions
   
33.183   Creation and membership
   
33.184   Powers
   
33.185   Appointment of members; term of office; removal from office
   
33.186   Vacant Property Review Commission; alternative government entity
   
33.187   Organization of Board; meetings; quorum; and alternate Board members
   
33.188   Compensation of members
   
33.189   Authority to receive, hold, and disburse funds; equalization of
expenses
   
33.190   Conflict of interest
   
33.191   Jurisdiction
   
33.192   Powers of the Board
   
33.193   Enforcement hearing
   
33.194   Hearing; notice; and final order
   
33.195   Presentation of cases
   
33.196   Appeals; final judgment
   
33.197   Fine schedule
   
33.198   Lien; fines, charges, and fees
   
33.199   Lienholder notification system
   
33.200   Ordinances enacted as the nuisance code
   
33.201   Maintenance permit required
   
33.202   Dangerous and structurally unsafe buildings
   
33.203   Repair, vacation, and demolition
   
33.204   Enforce delinquencies
   
33.205   Final action by Planning Commission or Board of Adjustment
Hearing Board Concerning Nuisances
   
33.215   Definition
   
33.216   Prohibition
   
33.217   Enforcement
   
33.218   Abatement procedure
   
33.219   Action on failure to comply
   
33.220   Destroying, removing or defacing notice; disobeying order
   
33.221   Multiple unit dwellings
   
33.222   Defense to violation
   
33.223   Hearing
   
33.224   Notice of hearing; conduct of hearing
   
33.225   Written order of hearing officer; appeal
Winchester-Clark County Active Transportation Committee
   
33.240   Created
   
33.241   Function
   
33.242   Purposes
   
33.243   Responsible for organizing an annual conference of stakeholders
   
33.244   Powers
   
33.245   Membership
   
33.246   Term
   
33.247   Appointing authorities
COUNTY ROAD DEPARTMENT
§ 33.001 ESTABLISHMENT.
   (A)   There is hereby created and established a County Road Department
consisting of a County Road Engineer (or supervisor) and such other employees
of the Department as may from time to time be provided for by the County Judge/
Executive and the Fiscal Court.
   (B)   The County Road Engineer (or supervisor) shall be appointed by the
Judge/Executive with the approval of the Fiscal Court as provided in KRS
179.020 and shall serve for a period of two or four years unless removed in
accordance with KRS 179.060.
   (C)   The Fiscal Court shall set the number and compensation of all
employees of the Road Department.
   (D)   All appointments to the Road Department, and removals therefrom, shall
be made by the County Judge/Executive with the approval of the Fiscal Court in
accordance with the provisions of state law and the county personnel policy.
(Prior Code, § 23.001) (Ord. passed 6-13-1994)
§ 33.002 ROAD ENGINEER; DUTIES.
   (A)   The County Road Engineer (or supervisor) shall be the head of the Road
Department subject to the order and direction of the County Judge/Executive.
   (B)   The Road Engineer (or supervisor) shall keep such records and make
such reports concerning the activities of his or her Department as may be
required by KRS Chapter 179, this code, or by the County Judge/Executive.
   (C)   The Road Engineer (or supervisor) shall be responsible for the
performance of the Road Department and all of its functions; all persons who
are employees of the Road Department shall be subject to the supervision and
direction of the Road Engineer (or supervisor).
(Prior Code, § 23.002) (Ord. passed 6-13-1994)
§ 33.003 COUNTY ROAD INVENTORY.
   (A)   The County Road Engineer (or supervisor) shall prepare and maintain a
current inventory of the county road system.
   (B)   The county road inventory shall include the following information for
each county road:
      (1)   The road number and name;
      (2)   Road length;
      (3)   The type of surface, its condition, and width;
      (4)   Width of the right-of-way; and
      (5)   The number of bridges on the road, their posted limit, and
condition.
   (C)   The County Judge/Executive and the County Road Engineer (or
supervisor) shall annually prepare and submit to the Fiscal Court for approval,
a county road plan which shall provide for the expenditure of county road funds
and set priorities for the construction and maintenance of county roads and
bridges.
(Prior Code, § 23.003) (Ord. passed 6-13-1994)
§ 33.004 SPECIFICATIONS FOR COUNTY ROADS.
   (A)   Roads may be accepted into the county road system by the Fiscal Court
in accordance with KRS 179.470 and the minimum specifications set forth in this
code.
   (B)   Prior to Fiscal Court consideration of a road for acceptance into the
county road system, the County Road Engineer shall certify that the following
minimum specifications have been met or exceeded:
      (1)   Surveyed centerline and legal description of proposed road prepared
by a licensed Kentucky registered land surveyor;
      (2)   A copy of all property owners’ deeds and a certification of title
certifying good, marketable, and fee simple title in the property owners
proposing to deed the road right-of-way to the county;
      (3)   Certification by the property owners that fences, buildings, gates,
and cattle gates have been removed from the proposed county road and right-of-
way;
      (4)   Road right-of-way must have a minimum of 40 feet with a minimum of
18-foot gravel surface with four inches of compressed gravel and properly
ditched and tiled;
      (5)   Road banks shall be stabilized and in grass or other suitable
cover; and
      (6)   Road surface shall be smooth and properly graded and crowned.
(Prior Code, § 23.004) (Ord. passed 6-13-1994)
§ 33.005 ROAD DEPARTMENT PROPERTY.
   (A)   Equipment and materials for the Road Department shall be acquired in
accordance with the provisions of this code.
   (B)   Employees of the Department shall be responsible for the good care of
departmental equipment and property, whether fixed or movable, assigned to
their use and keeping and shall promptly report to their supervisor the loss or
damage to or unserviceable condition of such property.
   (C)   Any employee found guilty of damages to or destruction of departmental
property or equipment, either through willfulness or negligence, shall be
required to pay all costs of repairs or replacements thereto.
   (D)   No departmental property or equipment shall be used for private
purposes or on private property.
(Prior Code, § 23.005) (Ord. passed 6-13-1994)
WINCHESTER-CLARK COUNTY COMMISSION ON HUMAN RIGHTS
§ 33.020 POLICY.
   It is the public policy of the city and county to promote fair treatment and
equal opportunity for all persons regardless of race, color, religion, national
origin, sex, age, or disability status.
(Prior Code, § 23.100) (Ord. 80-8, passed 5-14-1980)
§ 33.021 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context indicates or clearly requires a different meaning.
   COMMISSION. The Winchester-Clark County Commission on Human Rights.
   COMMISSIONER. A member of the Commission.
   DISCRIMINATON. Any direct or indirect act or practice of exclusion,
distinction, restriction, segregation, limitation, refusal, denial, or any
other act or practice or differentiation or preference in the treatment of a
person because of race, color, religion, national origin, sex, age, or
disability status.
(Prior Code, § 23.101) (Ord. 80-8, passed 5-14-1980)
§ 33.022 COMMISSION CREATED; APPOINTMENT; TERM; COMPENSATION.
   (A)   There is hereby created the Winchester-Clark County Commission on
Human Rights.
   (B)   (1)   The Commission shall consist of seven members who shall be
appointed on a non-partisan basis and shall be broadly representative of
employers, proprietors, trade unions, human rights groups, and the general
public.
      (2)   The Mayor and County Judge/Executive shall appoint the members. Of
the first members appointed, three shall be appointed for one year; two shall
be appointed for two years; and two shall be appointed for three years. After
the first appointments, all appointments shall be for a term of three years.
      (3)   A member chosen to fill a vacancy created other than by expiration
of a term shall be appointed for the unexpired term of the member whom he or
she is to succeed. A member of the Commission is eligible for reappointment.
      (4)   Before making new appointments, the Mayor and County Judge/
Executive shall request the recommendations of the Commission.
   (C)   No elected or appointed city and/or county official shall be a member
of the Commission.
   (D)   The members shall serve without compensation.
(Prior Code, § 23.102) (Ord. 80-8, passed 5-14-1980)
§ 33.023 FUNCTIONS.
   (A)   The Commission shall encourage fair treatment and equal opportunity
for all persons regardless of race, color, religion, national origin, sex, age,
or disability status, and shall promote mutual understanding and respect among
all economic, social, racial, religious, sex, age, and ethnic groups; and shall
endeavor to eliminate discrimination against and antagonism between religious,
racial, sex, age, and ethnic groups and their members.
   (B)   The Commission shall administer such enforceable ordinances forbidding
discrimination as the legislative bodies of the city and county may enact.
(Prior Code, § 23.103) (Ord. 80-8, passed 5-14-1980)
§ 33.024 POWERS; DUTIES.
   In performing its functions, the Commission shall have the following powers
and duties:
   (A)   To employ an executive director and other necessary personnel within
the limits of funds made available. The executive director shall be a person
who has training and experience in the field of intergroup relations;
   (B)   To conduct or arrange for research projects and studies into and
public reports on discrimination and progress in equal opportunity in the
community;
   (C)   To accept gifts or bequests, grants, or other payments, public or
private, to help finance its activities;
   (D)   To receive, initiate, investigate, seek to conciliate, and hold
hearings on complaints alleging discrimination;
   (E)   To recommend methods for elimination of discrimination and intergroup
tensions, and to use its best efforts to secure compliance with its
recommendations;
   (F)   To cooperate with other intergroup relations agencies, both public and
private, on the local, state, and national level in performing its functions
under this subchapter;
   (G)   To cooperate with the various departments, agencies, and boards of the
city and/or county or the state in effectuating the purposes of this
subchapter;
   (H)   To enlist the support of civic, labor, religious, professional, and
educational organizations and institutions in community activities and programs
that will further the goals of this subchapter;
   (I)   To organize community committees and councils that will work toward
the goals of this subchapter;
   (J)   To recommend legislation to the city and the county legislative bodies
and modes of executive action to the Mayor and the County Judge/Executive that
will effectuate the purposes of this subchapter;
   (K)   To submit an annual report of its activities and of the progress and
problems in intergroup relations in the community to the Mayor and to the
County Judge/Executive and the City Commission and County Fiscal Court; and
   (L)   To adopt, promulgate, amend, and rescind rules and regulations to
effectuate the policies and provisions of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 23.104) (Ord. 80-8, passed 5-14-1980)
§ 33.025 COOPERATION OF CITY AND COUNTY DEPARTMENTS.
   The services of all other city and county departments, agencies, and boards
shall be made available to the Commission upon its request. Information in the
possession of any city and county departments, agencies, or boards shall be
furnished to the Commission upon its request, and to the extent permitted by
law.
(Prior Code, § 23.105) (Ord. 80-8, passed 5-14-1980)
§ 33.026 ELECTION OF OFFICERS.
   (A)   The Commission shall elect a Chairperson and Vice-Chairperson, a
Secretary-Treasurer, and such other officers as it deems necessary.
   (B)   The Chairperson of the Commission shall appoint such committees as the
Commission may deem necessary in order to carry out is functions.
(Prior Code, § 23.106) (Ord. 80-8, passed 5-14-1980)
§ 33.027 EXPENDITURES.
   (A)   The Commission shall adopt a budget for expenditures within the limits
of the funds made available by the city and county.
   (B)   The Secretary-Treasurer shall make a semi-annual financial report to
the Commission, the Mayor, and County Judge/Executive, and other city and
county officials.
(Prior Code, § 23.107) (Ord. 80-8, passed 5-14-1980)
§ 33.028 OFFICE SPACE.
   The Mayor and the County Judge/Executive may provide suitable office space
and facilities for the Commission, if such is available.
(Prior Code, § 23.108) (Ord. 80-8, passed 5-14-1980)
§ 33.029 RELATIONSHIP WITH STATE’S COMMISSION ON HUMAN RIGHTS.
   (A)   The Commission shall, when requested, act in an advisory capacity to
and otherwise cooperate with the state’s Commission on Human Rights wherever
possible to effectuate compliance with state laws.
   (B)   The Commission is authorized to enter into cooperative working
agreements with the state’s Commission on Human Rights whenever enforceable
ordinances forbidding discrimination are enacted which are in conformity with
state law.
(Prior Code, § 23.109) (Ord. 80-8, passed 5-14-1980)
WINCHESTER-CLARK COUNTY PARKS AND RECREATION BOARD
§ 33.040 ESTABLISHED.
   The Winchester-Clark County Parks and Recreation Board is hereby established
pursuant to KRS 97.035 as a joint undertaking of the City of Winchester and the
county.
(Prior Code, § 23.200) (Ord. 80-18, passed 11-11-1980)
§ 33.041 MEMBERSHIP; APPOINTMENT; TERM.
   (A)   (1)   The Board herein created shall consist of eight members, four of
whom shall be appointed by the Mayor of the City of Winchester and four of whom
shall be appointed by the County Judge/Executive.
      (2)   One member of the Board shall be appointed by the Mayor from the
legislative body of the City of Winchester and one member shall be appointed by
the Judge/Executive from the legislative body of the county.
      (3)   The terms of these members shall coincide with their terms on their
respective legislative bodies.
   (B)   The terms of the members chosen from the public-at-large shall be for
four years; provided, however, that for initial appointments, the Mayor and the
Judge/Executive shall each appoint one member for a term of two years, one
member for a term of three years, and one member for a term of four years.
(Prior Code, § 23.201) (Ord. 80-18, passed 11-11-1980)
§ 33.042 COMPENSATION.
   Pursuant to KRS 97.035, members of the Board shall serve without
compensation, but shall be reimbursed for necessary expenses incurred in the
performance of their duties.
(Prior Code, § 23.202) (Ord. 80-18, passed 11-11-1980)
§ 33.043 ELECTION OF OFFICERS; BOND.
   The Board shall be a body corporate for all purposes and shall elect from
its membership a Chairperson, Secretary, and Treasurer. The Treasurer shall
execute a bond conditioned on the faithful performance of his or her duties
sufficient in an amount to cover funds coming into his or her hands. The
premium of his or her bond shall be paid from Board funds.
(Prior Code, § 23.203) (Ord. 80-18, passed 11-11-1980)
§ 33.044 POWERS.
   The Board shall have the power to develop, maintain, and operate parks,
playgrounds, and recreation centers, and to do all things permitted by statute
in the furtherance of these purposes.
(Prior Code, § 23.204) (Ord. 80-18, passed 11-11-1980)
EXTENSION BOARD
§ 33.055 BOARD; DISTRICT CREATED.
   (A)   There is hereby created pursuant to the provisions of KRS 164.630, an
Extension Board for the county.
   (B)   Pursuant to the petition of the County Extension Board, there is
hereby created the County Extension District, whose boundaries shall be
coexistent with the boundaries of the county, and which shall henceforth, from
the adoption of this section, constitute a governmental subdivision of the
state and a public body corporate.
(Prior Code, § 23.300) (Ord. 82-1, passed 3-24-1982; Ord. 98-10, passed 11-24-
1998)
§ 33.056 MEMBERSHIP; APPOINTMENT; TERM.
   (A)   The Extension Board shall consist of six members plus the County
Judge/Executive.
   (B)   The appointments shall be made with the approval of the Fiscal Court
from nominations submitted by the County Extension Council.
   (C)   The first Board shall consist of two members appointed for terms of
three years ending December 31, 1985, and two members for terms of two years
ending December 31, 1984, and two members for terms ending December 31, 1983.
Thereafter, all appointments shall be for terms of three years and shall become
effective on January 1 of each year.
   (D)   The Extension Council shall submit to the County Judge/Executive, a
list of two nominees for each member to be appointed to the Extension Board on
or before December 1 of each year. The County Judge/Executive shall, from this
list, appoint the required Board members.
(Prior Code, § 23.301) (Ord. 82-1, passed 3-24-1982)
WINCHESTER-CLARK COUNTY RECREATIONAL, TOURIST, AND CONVENTION COMMISSION
§ 33.070 COMMISSION CREATED.
   There is hereby created the Winchester-Clark County Recreational, Tourist,
and Convention Commission.
(Prior Code, § 23.400) (Ord. 92-9, passed 8-12-1992)
§ 33.071 COMPOSITION; APPOINTMENT; TERM.
   (A)   The Commission shall be composed of seven members to be appointed by
the Mayor and the County Judge/Executive, jointly, in the following manner:
      (1)   Three Commissioners from a list submitted by the local hotel and
motel association;
      (2)   One Commissioner from a list submitted by the local restaurant
association;
      (3)   One Commissioner from a list submitted by the Winchester-Clark
County Chamber of Commerce;
      (4)   One Commissioner by the Mayor of the City of Winchester; and
      (5)   One Commissioner by the County Judge/Executive.
   (B)   Vacancies shall be filled in the same manner that original
appointments are made.
   (C)   The Commissioners shall be appointed for terms of three years;
provided, that in making the initial appointments, the Mayor and County Judge/
Executive shall appoint two Commissioners for a term of three years, two
Commissioners for a term of four years, and three Commissioners for a term of
one year.
(Prior Code, § 23.401) (Ord. 92-9, passed 8-12-1992)
§ 33.072 ORGANIZATION; DUTIES; RESPONSIBILITIES.
   (A)   The Commission shall elect from its membership a Chairperson and a
Treasurer, and may employ such personnel and make such contracts as are
necessary to effectively carry out the purpose of KRS 91A.350 to 91A.390. The
contracts may include, but shall not be limited to, the procurement of
promotional services, advertising services, and other services and materials
relating to the promotion of tourist and convention business; provided,
contracts of the type enumerated shall be made only with persons,
organizations, and firms with experience and qualifications for providing
promotional services and materials such as advertising firms, chambers of
commerce, publishers, and printers.
   (B)   The Commission shall annually submit to the local governing body or
bodies which established it, a request for funds for the operation of the
Commission for the ensuing year.
(Prior Code, § 23.402) (Ord. 92-9, passed 8-12-1992)
§ 33.073 OPERATION.
   For the purpose of the operation of the Recreational, Tourist, and
Convention Commission, there is hereby imposed a transient room tax as provided
in Chapter 38.
(Prior Code, § 23.403) (Ord. 92-9, passed 8-12-1992)
OTHER DEPARTMENTS, BOARDS, AND COMMISSIONS
§ 33.085 BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT.
   (A)   For provisions concerning the Board of Adjustment, see §§
155.065 to
155.067.
   (B)   The compensation paid to the members of the Winchester/Clark County
Board of Adjustment shall be set by ordinance per meeting of said Board duly
assembled and in session.
(Prior Code, § 23.500) (Ord. 2016-15, passed 11-9-2016)
§ 33.086 ETHICS COMMISSION.
    For provisions concerning the Ethics Commission, see
Chapter 35, §§
35.45 through
35.51.
(Prior Code, § 23.501)
§ 33.087 PLANNING COMMISSION.
   The compensation paid to the members of the Winchester/Clark County Planning
and Zoning Commission shall be set by ordinance per meeting of said Commission
duly assembled and in session.
(Prior Code, § 23.502) (Ord. 2016-15, passed 11-9-2016)
§ 33.088 911 ADVISORY BOARD.
   For provisions concerning the 911 Advisory Board, see §§
39.15 to
39.17.
(Prior Code, § 23.503)
COMMUNITY VISIONING COMMITTEE
§ 33.100 ESTABLISHMENT.
   There is hereby created the joint Community Visioning Committee.
(Prior Code, § 23.600) (Ord. 2002-28, passed 11-27-2002)
§ 33.101 DUTIES.
   The function of the joint Community Visioning Committee shall be determining
the needs of the citizens of Winchester and the county, collectively, and
envisioning ways in which governmental and community resources can be utilized
to fill those needs for the future of this community, to better the quality of
life for all citizens of this community, and to provide the greatest benefit to
the citizens given the resources of the community and governments.
(Prior Code, § 23.601) (Ord. 2002-28, passed 11-27-2002)
§ 33.102 POWERS.
   The joint Community Visioning Committee is hereby empowered with the
authority to draft such regulations and bylaws as may be necessary for the
establishment or perpetuation of the visioning process. The Committee is
further empowered to establish various subcommittees to carry out the goals of
the joint Community Visioning Committee.
(Prior Code, § 23.602) (Ord. 2002-28, passed 11-27-2002)
§ 33.103 COMPOSITION.
   (A)   The initial joint Community Visioning Committee shall consist of no
more than 16 individuals, eight of which shall be appointed by the County
Judge/Executive, and eight of which shall be appointed by the Mayor to serve
staggered terms. Of the initial eight appointees, by each participating
governmental body, their terms shall be as follows:
      (1)   Three appointees: one-year terms beginning December 1, 2002;
      (2)   Three appointees: two-year terms beginning December 1, 2002; and
      (3)   Two appointees: three-year terms beginning December 1, 2002.
   (B)   The initial joint Committee shall consist of the Mayor of Winchester
(GS) - three years; the County Judge/Executive (GS) - three years; and such
other persons as the Mayor and County Judge/Executive may select.
(Prior Code, § 23.603) (Ord. 2002-28, passed 11-27-2002)
ANIMAL SHELTER
§ 33.115 ESTABLISHMENT.
   There is hereby established the County Animal Shelter.
(Prior Code, § 23.700) (Ord. 2001-13, passed 11-14-2001; Ord. 2002-14, passed
5-29-2002; Ord. 2002-21, passed 10-16-2002)
§ 33.116 PERSONNEL; DUTIES.
   (A)   Generally. The County Animal Shelter shall have three full-time
employees.
   (B)   Animal Shelter Director. As a full-time supervisor, the duties of the
Animal Shelter Director shall include, but not be limited to:
      (1)   Scheduling of personnel and payroll;
      (2)   Collection and disbursement of revenue generated;
      (3)   Maintenance and cleanliness of building and grounds;
      (4)   Assisting in yearly budget preparation;
      (5)   Serving as liaison with the County Humane Society;
      (6)   Ensuring compliance with the County Personnel Policy;
      (7)   Maintenance and accuracy of operations logs and records;
      (8)   Ensuring compliance with all applicable laws pertaining to the
regulations of dog/canine and criminal citations;
      (9)   Responding to all calls for animal control (canine) assistance
within the county;
      (10)   Ensuring compliance with standard operating procedures adopted by
the Fiscal Court; and
      (11)    Any other functions requested by the County Judge/Executive.
   (C)   Dog Warden. The duties of the Dog Warden shall include, but not be
limited to:
      (1)   Collection of revenue and reporting to supervisor;
      (2)   Maintenance of buildings and grounds;
      (3)   Compliance with County Personnel Policy;
      (4)   Compliance with standard operating procedures adopted by the Fiscal
Court;
      (5)   Maintenance and accuracy of operations logs and records;
      (6)   Ensuring compliance with all applicable laws pertaining to the
regulation of dog/canine and criminal citations;
      (7)   Responding to all calls for animal control (canine) assistance
within the county; and
      (8)   Any other functions requested by the County Judge/Executive.
   (D)   Shelter Attendant. The duties of the Shelter Attendant shall include,
but not be limited to:
      (1)   Maintenance and cleanliness of buildings and grounds;
      (2)   Compliance with County Personnel Policy;
      (3)   Ensuring compliance with all applicable laws pertaining to the
regulation of dog/canine and criminal citations;
      (4)   Responding to all calls for animal control (canine) assistance
within the county;
      (5)   Compliance with standard operating procedures adopted by the Fiscal
Court;
      (6)   Collection of revenue and reporting to supervisor; and
      (7)   Any other functions requested by the County Judge/Executive.
(Prior Code, § 23.701) (Ord. 2001-13, passed 11-14-2001; Ord. 2002-14, passed
5-29-2002; Ord. 2002-21, passed 10-16-2002)
§ 33.117 OPERATIONS.
   (A)   Hours. The hours of operation for the County Animal Shelter shall be
8:00 a.m. to 4:30 p.m. Tuesday through Saturday. The shelter will be open to
the public between the hours of 10:00 a.m. and 4:00 p.m. Tuesday through
Saturday. The shelter will be closed Sundays, Mondays and scheduled holidays.
   (B)   Uniforms. All Animal Shelter employees shall wear issued uniform
shirts during scheduled working hours and during after-hours calls.
   (C)   Visitors. Visitors in the kennel area should be accompanied by an
employee at all times.
   (D)   After-hours calls. The animal control officer may be called after
hours for the following emergency situations:
      (1)   Loose vicious canine;
      (2)   Bite case involving a person;
      (3)   Dog or cat injured and alive; injury should be considered life-
threatening;
      (4)   Dog or cat in emergency situation (e.g., dog caught in drainpipe,
cat in house fire, and the like);
      (5)   Dog or cat abandoned due to:
         (a)   Owner arrested; no responsible party available; or
         (b)   Automobile accident; no one to provide care.
      (6)   On order of the County Judge/Executive.
   (E)   Activities relegated to regular hours.
      (1)   Strays;
      (2)   Nuisance calls; barking dogs, and the like;
      (3)   Cruelty cases when not life-threatening; and
      (4)   Pick-up of dogs and cats.
   (F)   Carrion. The closest available county or city officer should handle
dead animals on the roadway.
   (G)   Paging. All employees will be on-call on a weekly rotating schedule
established by the Supervisor. Wardens on-call are required to carry a pager at
all times and respond when paged.
      (1)   The Central Communications Unit will page the Warden on-call. The
Warden on- call will contact the Communications Dispatcher within ten minutes
to ascertain the location of the call and the complainant. Once the Warden
determines the nature of the call, it shall be at his or her discretion as to
disposition on the call if it is a non-emergency situation. The Warden shall
then notify the Communications Dispatcher of his or her determination and
disposition of the call. The Warden shall maintain a log of all pages including
source, time, date, and disposition of call. Warden will be compensated two
hours minimum time if called back after duty hours.
      (2)   If the Warden on-call does not contact the Communications Unit
within ten minutes of the time of the page, he or she may be required to show
cause for the delay and may be subject to disciplinary action as outlined by
the county personnel policy.
      (3)   The Communications Dispatcher shall not give the Warden’s home
telephone or pager number out to the general public at any time. The
Communications Dispatcher shall maintain a log of all requests for the Dog
Warden, nature of the call, time of the page, time the call was dispatched, and
disposition of the call. If the Warden on-call does not respond, the Dispatcher
will contact the complainant and will continue to page the Warden until a
response is made.
   (H)   Canine housing and detention.
      (1)   The Warden shall maintain a log and card file for each canine that
is picked up and detained in the shelter. The log shall indicate the location
of the pick-up, date, sex of animal, description, Warden’s name and
corresponding identification number. It is the responsibility of the Warden who
picks up the canine to search the canine for a collar and/or identification,
Kentucky dog tag, rabies tag, or tattoos. If no identification exists, the
Warden shall inoculate the canine with the parvo vaccine and other required
serum. This introduction process will be placed on the log for reference. If an
identification exists, then Warden shall wait the required seven days before
proceeding with inoculation program.
      (2)   If owner of canines subject to KRS 258.215 can provide compliance
with KRS 258.015, then said owner shall have the dog returned after paying the
pick-up fee.
      (3)   Any canine delivered to the Animal Shelter by the Dog Warden will
be detained a minimum of seven days before becoming eligible for adoption.
      (4)   Any animal surrendered to the Animal Shelter is eligible for
adoption as soon as possible.
      (5)   The maximum time an animal is kept in shelter should be 30 days
with the exception of spayed or neutered animals.
      (6)   All adoptable animals shall be spayed or neutered before final
adoption from the shelter.
      (7)   Euthanasia is to be performed in the utility room of the shelter
behind closed doors. All dogs shall be put down by intravenous injection with
the exception of puppies, which are too immature for that procedure. If a
veterinarian/technician is not present to assist in the euthanasia process,
then the Warden on duty shall hold dogs for intravenous injection. No animals
are to be put down in the kennel area.
      (8)   Any Warden who allows these euthanasia procedures to be violated
shall be subject to disciplinary action.
      (9)   When a canine is noticeably sick or injured, the Warden on duty
shall transport the animal to the veterinarian immediately and appropriate
action shall be taken as determined by the veterinarian after his or her
examination of the animal.
      (10)   When any animal is put down, the log will reflect the date,
Warden, and veterinarian involved in the process. It is the responsibility of
the attending Warden to dispose of the remains through waste management.
   (I)   Cruelty cases. The employees of the Animal Shelter shall refer all
reported cruelty cases to an officer of the Humane Society and the law
enforcement agency who has jurisdiction for investigation. In the investigation
of violation of local dog ordinances, the Warden may contact a law enforcement
officer for assistance under whose jurisdiction the violation occurs.
(Prior Code, § 23.702) (Ord. 2001-13, passed 11-14-2001; Ord. 2002-14, passed
5-29-2002; Ord. 2002-21, passed 10-16-2002)
§ 33.118 SERVICES; FEES.
   The following services, with their associated fees or charges, will be
provided by the County Animal Shelter.
Service Fee
Service                                            Fee
Boarding of quarantined dogs                       $6/day
Cat adoption fee                                   $40
Dog adoption fee                                   $50
Parvo distemper booster vaccination if eligible at $5 each
time of adoption
Parvo distemper vaccination                        Included in adoption fee
Pick-up or receipt of privately-owned dogs for re- Donations
adoption or euthanasia                             Donations
   Per litter
Pick-up stray dogs                                 No charge
Recommended adoption fees                          Not to exceed $100
Return dog to owner                                $30
   First time                                   $30
   Second time                                  $30
   Third time and thereafter
 
(Prior Code, § 23.703) (Ord. 2001-13, passed 11-14-2001; Ord. 2002-14, passed
5-29-2002; Ord. 2002-27, passed 11-8-2002)
CLARK COUNTY-WINCHESTER HERITAGE COMMISSION
§ 33.130 COMMISSION ESTABLISHED.
   The Heritage Commission shall continue to be known as the “Clark County-
Winchester Heritage Commission”.
(Ord. 2006-6, passed 5-24-2006)
§ 33.131 MEMBERSHIP.
   (A)   Members. The said Commission shall consist of 12 voting members and
three non-voting ex-officio members; the voting membership shall be made up,
equally, of county and city residents. Such voting members shall include one
member of the Fiscal Court and one member of the City Commission. The other
voting members shall be selected for their knowledge of the historic traditions
of the county and the city and their interest in the preservation of historic
buildings, sites, and other properties in the county and the city. County
members shall be appointed by the County Judge/Executive with the consent of
the Fiscal Court. City members shall be appointed by the Mayor with the consent
of the City Commission. In addition, the Director of Tourism, the President of
the Bluegrass Heritage Museum, and the Chairperson of the Winchester
Preservation Commission shall serve as ex-officio members of the Commission.
   (B)   Term of office. The term of office of each elected public official
shall be the same as his or her official tenure in office. The term of office
of other voting members shall be four years, ending on December 31 of the
designated year, and the terms of office of such voting members shall be
staggered so that the terms of office of two of them expire each year, with
later appointments or re- appointments continuing the staggered pattern.
   (C)   Commission actions. Commission actions shall be approved by a majority
of the members voting on such action, provided that a majority of the voting
membership is in attendance at the meeting.
   (D)   Officers. The Commission shall elect annually from its voting members
a Chairperson, a Vice Chairperson, a Secretary, and a Treasurer.
(Ord. 2006-6, passed 5-24-2006)
§ 33.132 PURPOSE.
   The purposes and objectives of this Commission shall be:
   (A)   To head up, administer, and promote the preservation and/or public
acquisition of historical buildings, sites, and other historic property, both
real and personal, located in the county and Winchester, and assist private
owners of historic structures and sites in the registration and preservation
thereof;
   (B)   To make such historic property available to the public; and
   (C)   To perpetuate the history of such historic property and make such
history known to the public.
(Ord. 2006-6, passed 5-24-2006)
§ 33.133 DUTIES.
   The Commission shall perform the following duties.
   (A)   Surveillance of historic structures and sites. The Commission shall
maintain a surveillance of historic sites and structures, especially those not
in historic districts, to prevent such structures and sites from being
destroyed with no advance warning and to submit its recommendations to the
level of government having jurisdiction in matters relating to the
preservation, conservation, and enhancement of such structures and sites. The
Commission shall also cause a list of priorities to be made as among the
various historic structures and sites, said list to be used in connection with
the recommendations of the Commission and with the appropriation of Commission
funds.
   (B)   Records. The Commission shall maintain files, notebooks, and atlases
of historic properties which it may cause to be made and those which it may
from time to time acquire.
   (C)   Maintenance of historic property. The Commission shall maintain and
make available to the public that historic property which it has acquired,
within limits of funds available to it.
   (D)   Grants. The Commission shall expedite the use of, be informed about,
apply for, and encourage other agencies to apply for federal, state, and local
grants for historic preservation.
   (E)   Gifts. The Commission shall encourage and may accept gifts and
property donations to provide a base for the preservation and administration of
local historic structures and sites.
   (F)   Record of disbursements of funds. The Commission shall maintain a
current record of the disbursement of its funds and said record shall be
available for public inspection upon ten days’ written notice to the
Commission.
   (G)   Programs. The Commission may undertake programs and projects to
promote interest in historic preservation.
   (H)   Assistance of other organizations. The Commission shall offer
assistance to individuals and private groups concerned with historic
preservation.
   (I)   Liaison with local government. The Commission shall maintain a liaison
with the Fiscal Court and the City Commission and keep it aware of the historic
property within the county and the city and also keep the local legislative
bodies aware of the activities of the Commission and of its needs.
   (J)   Executive Secretary. The Commission may retain an Executive Secretary
and other staff as needed.
   (K)   Committees. The Commission may establish committees to perform
specific duties.
   (L)   Meetings. The Commission shall meet monthly and at such other times as
may be designated by the Chairperson or a majority of the voting members.
   (M)   Office. The Commission may establish and maintain office facilities to
house an Executive Secretary, staff, records, and property of the Commission,
which office facilities shall be open to the public.
(Ord. 2006-6, passed 5-24-2006)
§ 33.134 IMPLEMENTATION OF DUTIES.
   The Commission may expend any and all funds appropriated by the county and
the city and may apply for, receive, and disburse funds and may contract with
any state, federal, or public or private agency for the purpose of carrying out
the duties as set forth herein. The Commission may receive, accept, purchase,
or acquire and hold in any lawful manner real and personal property, and it may
dispose of same by gift or in any other lawful manner, for the benefit of the
Commission and any other cause of a historic nature.
(Ord. 2006-6, passed 5-24-2006)
§ 33.135 FUNDS.
   (A)   Financial support. The funds of the Commission shall be derived from
grants and contributions supplemented by such contributions from the Fiscal
Court and the City Commission as appear to be in the public interest.
   (B)   Reimbursement of expenses. All members shall be reimbursed for any
authorized expenditures.
(Ord. 2006-6, passed 5-24-2006)
COUNTY CEMETERY BOARD
§ 33.150 BOARD ESTABLISHED.
   There is hereby established the Clark County Cemetery Board.
(Ord. 2005-16, passed 8-10-2005)
§ 33.151 MEETINGS.
   The Clark County Cemetery Board will be known as “the County Cemetery Board”
and shall meet three times annually in space provided by the Fiscal Court.
(Ord. 2005-16, passed 8-10-2005)
§ 33.152 COMPOSITION OF BOARD.
   The County Cemetery Board shall be comprised of five volunteer members,
appointed by the County Fiscal Court to serve a term of two years. However,
initially, two member positions shall be for an initial term of one year, one
position shall have an initial term of two years, one position shall have and
initial term of three years, and the remaining position shall have an initial
term of four years. Vacancies shall be filled by appointment of the County
Judge/Executive, subject to approval of the Fiscal Court. As required by
statute, all members shall have lived in the county for at least one year prior
to appointment, shall have demonstrated an interest in county preservation,
genealogy, local history, or a related area, and be of good character in the
community.
(Ord. 2005-16, passed 8-10-2005)
§ 33.153 ADMINISTRATION OF FUNDS.
   All grant monies sought by the County Cemetery Board shall be administered
under the direction and authority of the County Fiscal Court. The County
Treasurer shall have sole authority to disperse said funds only by direction of
the County Fiscal Court acting upon recommendations of the County Cemetery
Board.
(Ord. 2005-16, passed 8-10-2005)
§ 33.154 QUALIFICATIONS FOR ASSISTANCE.
   The County Cemetery Board, in reviewing request for assistance and in making
recommendations to the County Fiscal Court, shall be restricted by state law
and, specifically, may only consider for assistance those cemeteries that meet
the following qualifications:
   (A)   Are owned and controlled by lot owners;
   (B)   Operated on a non profit basis with no individual benefit;
   (C)   Have no employees other than maintenance workers;
   (D)   Do not sell any other than the right of interment in designated grave
spaces; and
   (E)   Do not receive nor quality for perpetual care funds present the KRS
367.952.
(Ord. 2005-16, passed 8-10-2005)
WINCHESTER-CLARK COUNTY 911 ADDRESSING COMMITTEE
§ 33.165 COMMITTEE ESTABLISHED.
   A joint Property Addressing Committee is hereby created, which hereafter
will be known as the “Winchester-Clark County 911 Addressing Committee”.
(Ord. 2005-17, passed 8-10-2005)
§ 33.166 PURPOSE OF COMMITTEE.
   Said Winchester-Clark County 911 Addressing Committee shall have, as its
function, the task of determining policies and procedures for addressing
property in Winchester and the county, collectively, and to envision ways in
which local policies and procedures, as they relate to property numbering, can
be utilized to fill the main purposes of each, to better the quality of service
and safety for all citizens of this community, and to provide the greatest
benefit to the citizens given the resources of the community and governments.
(Ord. 2005-17, passed 8-10-2005)
§ 33.167 AUTHORITY AND POWERS.
   The Winchester-Clark County 911 Addressing Committee is hereby empowered
with the authority to draft such regulations and bylaws as may be necessary for
the establishment or perpetuation of the property addressing process. The
Winchester-Clark County 911 Addressing Committee is further empowered to make
all necessary changes to existing property numbers as necessary to carry out
the goals of the Winchester-Clark County 911 Addressing Committee.
(Ord. 2005-17, passed 8-10-2005)
§ 33.168 MEMBERSHIP.
   The initial Winchester-Clark County 911 Addressing Committee shall consist
of individuals appointed or nominated from various county and city agencies, by
each participating governmental body, their membership shall be as follows:
   (A)   One appointee: Winchester City Commission;
   (B)   One appointee: County Fiscal Court;
   (C)   One appointee: Winchester-Clark County Planning and Zoning;
   (D)   One appointee: County Property Valuation Administration;
   (E)   One appointee: County Sheriff;
   (F)   One appointee: County Fire Department;
   (G)   One appointee: Winchester Fire-EMS;
   (H)   One appointee: Winchester Police Department; and
   (I)   One appointee: United States Postal Service.
(Ord. 2005-17, passed 8-10-2005)
§ 33.169 INITIAL REPRESENTATIVES.
   The initial Committee shall consist of the representatives of the above
agencies with the appointing authority for the City Commission representative
being the Mayor and for the Fiscal Court, the County Judge/Executive.
Appointees serve at the pleasure of the appointing authority and until any
successor is appointed. All appointees serve without compensation.
(Ord. 2005-17, passed 8-10-2005)
ADMINISTRATIVE HEARING BOARD
§ 33.180 TITLE.
   The subchapter shall be known and may be cited as “The Administrative
Hearing Board Ordinance”.
(Ord. 2010-11, passed 5-12-2010; Ord. 2022-2, passed 3-24-2022)
§ 33.181 PURPOSE.
   This subchapter is intended to protect, promote, and improve the public
health, safety and welfare, to safeguard the health, comfort, living
conditions, safety and welfare, and to provide enforcement provisions for
violations of ordinances for the benefit of the citizens of City of Winchester
and the county.
(Ord. 2011-7, passed 7-27-2011; Ord. 2020-08, passed 11-12-2020; Ord. 2022-2,
passed 3-24-2022)
§ 33.182 DEFINITIONS.
   The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this subchapter, shall
have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context
clearly indicates a different meaning.
   ABATEMENT COSTS. A local government’s necessary and reasonable costs for and
associated with clearing, preventing unauthorized entry to, or demolishing all
or a portion of a structure or premises, or taking any other action with regard
to a structure or premises necessary to remedy a violation and to maintain and
preserve the public health, safety, and welfare in accordance with any local
government ordinance.
   ADMINISTRATIVE HEARING BOARD. An administrative body created and acting
under the authority of the KRS 65.8801 to 65.8839.
   BLIGHTED. As defined in KRS 99.705.
   BLIGHTED OR DETERIORATED PROPERTY. Any vacant structure or vacant or
unimproved lot or parcel of ground in a predominately built-up neighborhood:
      (1)   Which because of the physical condition or use is regarded as a
public nuisance at common law or has been declared a public nuisance in
accordance with a city of any class, or in counties containing a city of the
first class or consolidated local government, with the housing, building,
plumbing, fire, or related codes;
      (2)   Which because of physical condition, use, or occupancy is
considered an attractive nuisance to children, including, but not limited to,
abandoned wells, shafts, basements, excavations, and unsafe fences or
structures;
      (3)   Which because it is dilapidated, unsanitary, unsafe, vermin-
infested, or lacking in the facilities and equipment required by the housing
code of a city or county containing a city of the first class or consolidated
local government, has been designated by the department responsible for
enforcement of the code as unfit for human habitation;
      (4)   Which is a fire hazard, or is otherwise dangerous to the safety of
persons or property;
      (5)   From which the utilities, plumbing, heating, sewerage, or other
facilities have been disconnected, destroyed, removed, or rendered ineffective
so that the property is unfit for its intended use;
      (6)   Which by reason of neglect or lack of maintenance has become a
place for accumulation of trash and debris, or a haven for rodents or other
vermin;
      (7)   Which has been tax delinquent for a period of at least three years;
or
      (8)   Which has not been rehabilitated within the time constraints placed
upon the owner by the appropriate code enforcement agency.
   CODE OFFICIAL. As used in the International Property Maintenance Code, shall
be deemed to be the City Building Inspector, Engineering Technician, City Fire
Marshal, if applicable, the Code Enforcement Officer (or their duly authorized
representatives), Winchester Municipal Utilities officials, and sworn officers
and all shall be charged with the administration and enforcement of this code.
   FINAL ORDER. Any order:
      (1)   Issued by the Administrative Hearing Board in accordance with KRS
65.8828(4) or (6);
      (2)   Issued by an assigned hearing officer in accordance with KRS
65.8829(7) and that is not appealed to the Administrative Hearing Board as
provided in KRS 65.8828(6);
      (3)   Created because a violator neither paid nor contested the citation
within seven days as provided in KRS 65.8825(6); or
      (4)   Created because of a failure of a violator to appear at a hearing
the violator requested to contest the citation as provided in KRS 65.8828(1).
   IMMINENT DANGER. A condition that is likely to cause serious or life-
threatening injury or death at any time.
   OWNER. A person, association, corporation, partnership or other legal entity
having a legal or equitable title in real property.
   PREMISES. A lot, plot or parcel of land, including any structures upon it.
   REDEVELOPMENT. The planning or re-planning, design or redesign, acquisition,
clearance, development and disposal, or any combination of these, of a property
in its preparation for residential and related uses, as may be appropriate or
necessary.
   REMEDY. The action taken to abate any nuisance to bring property in
violation of the code into compliance with the requirements of this chapter.
   RESIDENTIAL AND RELATED USE. Residential property for sale or rental and
related uses; including, but not limited to, park and recreation areas,
neighborhood community service, and neighborhood parking lots.
   THE CODE. Any ordinances adopted by the city pursuant to KRS 65.8801or
subsequently adopted.
   VACANT PROPERTY REVIEW COMMISSION. A commission established by ordinance to
review vacant properties to make a written determination of blight and
deterioration.
(Ord. 2011-7, passed 7-27-2011; Ord. 2022-2, passed 3-24-2022)
§ 33.183 CREATION AND MEMBERSHIP.
   There is hereby created an Administrative Hearing Board pursuant to KRS
65.8801 to 65.8839. The City of Winchester, hereafter referred to as the city,
and County Fiscal Court, hereafter referred to as the county, does hereby amend
an ordinance that established an Administrative Hearing Board. The
Administrative Hearing Board shall be composed of five member(s), all of whom
shall be residents and registered voters of the city and county for a period of
at least one year prior to the creation of the Board, and shall reside there
throughout their term in office.
(Ord. 2010-11, passed 5-12-2010; Ord. 2011-7, passed 7-27-2011; Ord. 2020-08,
passed 11-12-2020)
§ 33.184 POWERS.
   (A)   The Code Official shall have the power to issue citations for
violations of the code. Such citations shall be a final determination unless
contested pursuant to the hearing procedures provided under §§
33.194 and
33.196.
   (B)   The Administrative Hearing Board, hereafter referred to as the Board,
shall have the power to conduct hearings, issue remedial orders, and impose
fines and file encumbrance liens as a final determination. These powers may be
exercised as a method of enforcing the code for violations of the nuisance
code; or other code violations authorized by this subchapter, which have been
determined by the Code Official; or when a contest to the Board has been
initiated.
   (C)   The Board shall have the authority to conduct hearings and make
determinations regarding all nuisance code violations or other code violations
authorized by this subchapter.
(Ord. 2010-11, passed 5-12-2010; Ord. 2011-3, passed 3-23-2011; Ord. 2020-08,
passed 11-12-2020)
§ 33.185 APPOINTMENT OF MEMBERS; TERM OF OFFICE; REMOVAL FROM OFFICE.
   (A)   The city and county shall have representation on the Board; neither
the city nor the county shall have more than three members on the Board at all
times.
   (B)   The Mayor shall appoint the two city members and the County Judge/
Executive shall appoint the two county members with approval of their
respective legislative bodies. The fifth and final Board member position will
be a joint appointment by the Mayor and County Judge.
   (C)   Members of the Administrative Hearing Board shall be residents and
registered voters of the county for a period of at least one year prior to
joining the Board and shall reside there throughout their term in office. The
initial appointments to a five-member Administrative Hearing Board shall be as
follows:
      (1)   One member appointed to a one-year term (the fifth member of the
Board);
      (2)   Two members appointed to a two-year term (one city and one county
member); and
      (3)   Two members appointed to a three-year term (one city and one county
member).
   (D)   All subsequent appointments shall be for a term of three years. A city
member may be reappointed by the Mayor, subject to approval by the Winchester
City Commission. A county member may be reappointed by the County Judge/
Executive, subject to approval by the County Fiscal Court.
   (E)   The Mayor and County Judge/Executive in a joint decision may appoint,
subject to the approval of the Winchester City Commission and County Fiscal
Court, one alternate member to serve on the Board in the absence of a regular
member. The alternate member shall meet all of the qualifications and shall be
subject to all of the requirements that apply to regular members of the
Administrative Hearing Board.
   (F)   Any vacancy on the Board shall be filled by the Mayor or County Judge/
Executive within 30 days of the vacancy. If the vacancy is not filled within
that time period, the Winchester City Commission or the County Magistrates
shall fill the vacancy.
   (G)   (1)   A Board member may be removed from office by the Mayor and
County Judge/Executive for misconduct, inefficiency, or willful neglect of
duty.
      (2)   The Mayor and County Judge/Executive must submit a written
statement to the member and the Winchester City Commission and County Fiscal
Court setting forth the reasons for removal.
      (3)   To remove a member from the Board, both the Mayor and County Judge/
Executive must give approval.
(Ord. 2010-11, passed 5-12-2010; Ord. 2022-2, passed 3-24-2022)
§ 33.186 VACANT PROPERTY REVIEW COMMISSION; ALTERNATIVE GOVERNMENTAL ENTITY.
   The membership provisions of §
33.185 shall be identical to those of the Vacant Property Review Commission
established by ordinance pursuant to KRS 99.710. The duties of the Vacant
Property Review Commission shall be assigned to the joint city-county
Administrative Hearing Board.
(Ord. 2022-2, passed 3-24-2022)
§ 33.187 ORGANIZATION OF BOARD; MEETINGS; QUORUM; AND ALTERNATE BOARD MEMBERS.
   (A)   If the Board consists of five members, it shall annually elect a chair
from among its members. The Chairperson shall be the presiding officer and a
full voting member of the Board. In the absence of the Chairperson, the
remaining members of the Board shall select one of their number to preside in
place of the Chairperson and to exercise the powers of the Chairperson.
   (B)   Regular meetings of the Board shall be held monthly on a date to be
set by the Board. Meetings other than those regularly scheduled shall be
special meetings held in accordance with the requirements of the state’s Open
Meetings Act, being KRS 61.800 et seq., and the Board may adopt a procedure for
special meetings, if necessary.
   (C)   All meetings and hearings of the Board shall be held in accordance
with the requirements of KRS 65.8801 et seq., Robert’s Rules of Order, the
state’s Open Meetings Act being KRS 61.800 et seq., and the state’s Open
Records Act, being KRS 61.870 et seq.
   (D)   Any action of any Board member in his or her role as hearing officer
shall be deemed to be the action of the Board.
   (E)   Minutes shall be kept for all proceedings of the Board and the vote of
each member on any issue decided by the Board shall be recorded in the minutes.
   (F)   All hearing officers, including members of a Code Enforcement Board
who serve as hearing officers, shall receive training related to the conduct of
administrative hearings in accordance with procedures set out in KRS 13B.080.
   (G)   The presence of at least a majority of the Board’s entire membership
shall constitute a quorum. The affirmative vote of a majority of the members
constituting a quorum shall be necessary for any official action to be taken.
(Ord. 2010-11, passed 5-12-2010; Ord. 2011-7, passed 7-27-2011; Ord. 2022-2,
passed 3-24-2022)
§ 33.188 COMPENSATION OF MEMBERS.
   For each official Board meeting attended, each Board member shall be paid a
sum of $50.
(Ord. 2010-11, passed 5-12-2010)
§ 33.189 AUTHORITY TO RECEIVE, HOLD, AND DISBURSE FUNDS; EQUALIZATION OF
EXPENSES.
   The Board shall have the right to receive, hold, and disburse funds which it
may legally receive from any and every source.
(Ord. 2010-11, passed 5-12-2010)
§ 33.190 CONFLICT OF INTEREST.
   (A)   Any member of the Board who has any direct or indirect financial or
personal interest in any matter to be decided, shall disclose the nature of the
interest and shall disqualify himself or herself from discussion of or voting
on the matter in which he or she has an interest, and shall not be counted for
purposes of establishing a quorum.
   (B)   No member of a local government code enforcement board shall hold any
elected or appointed office, whether paid or unpaid, or any position of
employment with the unit of local government that is subject to the
jurisdiction of the Administrative Hearing Board.
(Ord. 2010-11, passed 5-12-2010; Ord. 2022-2, passed 3-24-2022)
§ 33.191 JURISDICTION.
   The Code Official and the Board shall have jurisdiction to enforce and shall
enforce those city/county ordinances and code provisions which specifically
provide for Board enforcement. In the enforcement of this subchapter, a Code
Official, and his or her duly authorized agents, assistants, employees, or
contractors, may enter upon private or public property to ensure compliance
with the provisions of this subchapter.
(Ord. 2010-11, passed 5-12-2010)
§ 33.192 POWERS OF THE BOARD.
   The Board shall have the following powers and duties over all matters
contained within this subchapter:
   (A)   To adopt rules and regulations to govern its operations and the
conduct of its hearings;
   (B)   To subpoena witnesses, alleged violators, and evidence to its
hearings;
   (C)   To conduct hearings to determine if there has been a violation of the
code or such other code provisions as may be delegated herein;
   (D)   To take testimony under oath. The Chairperson shall have the authority
to administer oaths for the purpose of taking testimony;
   (E)   To make findings of fact and issue orders necessary to remedy any
violation of the code or code provision that the Board is authorized to
enforce;
   (F)   To impose fines, as authorized, on any person found to have violated
the code;
   (G)   To order liens to be filed for the collection of fines, charges,
costs, penalties, and fees, including attorney’s fees;
   (H)   To order demolition of dangerous and structurally unsafe buildings;
   (I)   To order tenants to vacate premises of unsafe buildings and
structures; and
   (J)   To revoke licenses and/or permits for any person found to be in
violation.
(Ord. 2010-11, passed 5-12-2010; Ord. 2022-2, passed 3-24-2022)
§ 33.193 ENFORCEMENT HEARING.
   The following requirements shall govern all enforcement hearings before the
Board.
   (A)   If the alleged violator desires to contest the citation, he or she may
initiate a hearing before the Board after a citation is issued by a Code
Official.
   (B)   Except as provided in division (D) below, if a Code Official believes,
based on his or her personal observation or investigation, that a person has
violated the code, he or she shall issue a notice of violation to the offender,
allowing the offender seven days to remedy the violation without fine. The
offender will be allowed a reasonable extension of time to remedy the violation
without fine at the discretion of the Code Official.
   (C)   The Code Enforcement Officer shall issue a citation by one of the
following methods:
      (1)   Personal service to the alleged violator;
      (2)   Leaving a copy of the citation with any person 18 years of age or
older who is on the premises, if the alleged violator is not on the premises at
the time the citation is issued;
      (3)   Mailing a copy of the citation by regular first-class mail to the
last known recorded mailing address of the alleged violator; or
      (4)   If, in the exercise of reasonable diligence, the issuance of a
citation using the methods set out in division (C) (1), (2) or (3) is not
possible, then the citation is properly served by posting a copy of the
citation in a conspicuous place on the premises.
   (D)   If the offender fails or refuses to remedy the violation within the
time allotted by the Code Official, the Code Official is authorized to issue a
citation. The citation shall represent a determination by the Code Official
that a violation has been committed, and that determination shall be final
unless contested by the alleged violator and taken before the Board.
   (E)   Nothing in this subchapter shall prohibit the city or county from
taking immediate action to remedy a violation of its ordinances when there is
reason to believe that the violation presents a serious threat to the public
health, safety, and welfare, or if in the absence of immediate action, the
effects of the violation will be irreparable or irreversible.
   (F)   The citation issued by the Code Official shall contain the following
information:
      (1)   The date and time of issuance;
      (2)   The name and address of the person to whom the citation is issued;
      (3)   The date and time the offense was committed;
      (4)   The facts constituting the offense;
      (5)   The section of the code or the number of the ordinance violated;
      (6)   The name of the Code Official;
      (7)   The fine that will be imposed for the violation if the person does
not contest the citation;
      (8)   The maximum fine that may be imposed if the person elects to
contest the citation;
      (9)   The procedure for the person to follow in order to pay the fine or
to contest the citation;
      (10)   A statement that, if the person fails to pay the fine set forth in
the citation or contest the citation, within the time allowed, the person shall
be deemed to have waived the right to a hearing before the Board to contest the
citation and that the determination that the violation was committed shall be
final;
      (11)   Notice that a lien may be filed or foreclosure proceedings
initiated to collect fines, charges, costs, penalties, and fees, including
attorney’s fees; or
      (12)   After issuing a citation for an alleged violation, the Code
Enforcement Officer shall notify the Administrative Hearing Board by delivering
the citation to it at its next meeting.
   (G)   Upon receipt of a citation, the offender shall respond to the citation
within seven days of the date of receipt by either paying the fine or
requesting, in writing, a hearing before the Board to contest the citation. If
the offender responds by paying the fine, the offender shall still be required
to remedy the violation and will be given a reasonable time to remedy. If the
offender fails to remedy the violation, another notice of violation may be
issued, in accordance with division (B) above, for another violation of the
code. If the person fails to respond to the citation within seven days, the
person shall be deemed to have waived the right to a hearing and the
determination that a violation was committed shall be considered final, and the
person shall be deemed to have waived the right to appeal the final order to
the District Court.
   (H)   If the offender does not contest the citation within the time
prescribed, the Administrative Hearing Board shall enter a final order
determining that the violation was committed, no contest was initiated, and
then cause the nuisance to be abated and/or impose the fine set forth in the
citation. If the offender does not remedy in the time provided, another notice
of violation may be issued, in accordance with division (B) above, for another
violation of the code. Notice of the final order shall be served on the
offender by:
      (1)   Regular first-class mail;
      (2)   Certified mail with return receipt requested;
      (3)   Personal delivery; or
      (4)   Leaving a copy of the order at the person’s usual place of
residence with any individual residing therein who is 18 years of age or older
and who is informed of the contents of the order.
(Ord. 2010-11, passed 5-12-2010; Ord. 2011-7, passed 7-27-2011; Ord. 2022-2,
passed 3-24-2022)
§ 33.194 HEARING; NOTICE; AND FINAL ORDER.
   (A)   When a hearing has been requested, the Board shall schedule a hearing.
The Board shall hold hearings once a month.
   (B)   Not less than seven days before the date of the hearing, the Board
shall notify the requester of the date, time, and place of the hearing. The
notice may be given by certified mail, return receipt requested; by personal
delivery; or by leaving the notice at the person’s usual place of residence
with any individual residing therein who is 18 years of age or older and who is
informed of its contents.
   (C)   Any person requesting a hearing before the Board who fails to appear
at the time and place set for the hearing shall be deemed to have waived the
right to a hearing to contest the citation and a determination that a violation
was committed shall be entered and become final. The Board shall enter a final
order determining the violation was committed and shall cause the nuisance to
be abated and/or impose the fine set forth in the citation, and the alleged
violator shall be deemed to have waived the right to appeal the final order to
the District Court. The final order shall provide the offender, in accord with
division (E)(1) of this section, a reasonable time to remedy the violation. If
the offender does not remedy in the time provided, another notice of violation
may be issued, in accordance with §
33.196, for another violation of the code. A copy of the final order shall be
served upon the offender by regular first-class mail; by certified mail, return
receipt requested; by personal delivery; or by leaving the notice at the
person’s usual place of residence with any individual residing therein who is
18 years of age or older and who is informed of its contents.
   (D)   All testimony shall be taken under oath and recorded by audio, video,
or stenographic means. Testimony shall be taken from the Code Official, the
alleged violator, and any witnesses to the violation offered by the Code
Official or the alleged violator. Formal rules of evidence shall not apply, but
fundamental due process shall be observed and shall govern the proceedings.
   (E)   Based on the evidence, the Board shall determine whether a violation
was committed. In making its determination, the Board shall uphold the citation
unless the issuance of the citation was clearly erroneous. If clearly
erroneous, an order dismissing the citation shall be entered. If pictorial or
photographic evidence is provided or if no such evidence is provided and the
Board still determines that a violation was committed, an order shall be issued
upholding the citation and either imposing a fine up to the maximum authorized
by this subchapter or other ordinance, or requiring the offender to remedy a
continuing violation, or both.
      (1)   The final order shall provide the offender a reasonable time, not
to exceed ten days, to remedy the violation.
      (2)   If the offender does not remedy in the time provided in the final
order, another notice of violation may be issued, in accordance with §
33.193(B), for another violation of the code.
   (F)   Every final order of the Board shall be reduced to writing, which
shall include the findings and conclusion reached and the date the order was
issued. A copy shall be furnished to the person named in the citation. If the
person named in the citation is not present when the final order is issued, the
order shall be delivered in accordance with the procedures set forth in
division (B) above.
   (G)   The Code Official, at his or her discretion, may remedy the violation
to bring the property into compliance with the code if the citation is not
contested or if a final order upholding the citation is entered by the Board.
(Ord. 2010-11, passed 5-12-2010; Ord. 2011-7, passed 7-27-2011; Ord. 2022-2,
passed 3-24-2022)
§ 33.195 PRESENTATION OF CASES.
   Each case before the Administrative Hearing Board shall be presented by an
attorney selected by the city, a Code Enforcement Officer for the city, or by a
member of the city’s administrative staff. The City Attorney may either be
counsel to the Administrative Hearing Board or may present cases before the
Administrative Hearing Board, but shall in no case serve in both capacities.
(Ord. 2022-2, passed 3-24-2022)
§ 33.196 APPEALS; FINAL JUDGMENT.
   (A)   An appeal from any final written order of the Board may be made to the
County District Court within 30 days of the date the order is issued. The
appeal shall be initiated by the filing of a complaint and a copy of the
Board’s final order in the same manner as any civil action under the state’s
Rules of Civil Procedure.
   (B)   The action before the District Court shall be de novo. If the Court
finds that a violation occurred, the offender shall be ordered to remedy the
violation and pay to the city or county all fines, charges, fees, including
attorney’s fees, and penalties occurring as of the date of the judgment. The
District Court Judge shall provide the offender a reasonable time to remedy the
violation. If the offender does not remedy in the time provided, another notice
of violation may be issued, in accordance with §
33.193(B), for another violation of the code.
   (C)   If no appeal from a final order of the Board is filed within the time
period set in division (A) above, the Board’s order shall be deemed final for
all purposes.
(Ord. 2010-11, passed 5-12-2010; Ord. 2011-7, passed 7-27-2011; Ord. 2022-2,
passed 3-24-2022)
§ 33.197 FINE SCHEDULE.
   Violations of ordinances that are enforced by the Board shall be subject to
the following schedule of civil fines.
   (A)   If a citation for a violation of the cited code is not contested by
the person charged with the violation, the penalties set forth in this division
(A) may apply per day, per violation.
 
Violation                         1st Offense 2nd Offense All Others
Abandoned vehicles and appliances $100        $250        $500
License violations                $100        $250        $500
Litter                            $100        $250        $500
Other nuisances                   $100        $250        $500
Property maintenance              $100        $250        $500
Solid waste                       $100        $250        $500
 
   (B)   If the citation is contested and a hearing before the Board is
required, the following maximum penalties may be imposed at the discretion of
the Board per day, per violation.
Violation 1st Offense 2nd Offense All Others
Violation                                    1st Offense 2nd Offense All Others
Abandoned vehicles and appliances            $200        $500        $1,000
Animals                                      $200        $500        $1,000
Erosion prevention and sedimentation control $200        $500        $1,000
License violations                           $200        $500        $1,000
Litter                                       $200        $500        $1,000
Other nuisances                              $200        $500        $1,000
Planning and zoning violations               $200        $500        $1,000
Property maintenance                         $200        $500        $1,000
Solid waste                                  $200        $500        $1,000
Transient Room Tax                           $200        $500        $1,000
 
(Ord. 2010-11, passed 5-12-2010; Ord. 2022-2, passed 3-24-2022)
§ 33.198 LIEN; FINES, CHARGES, AND FEES.
   (A)   The city and county shall possess a lien on property owned by the
person found by a final, nonappealable order issued, based upon an uncontested
citation; by a final, nonappealable order of the Board; or by a final judgment
of the court of competent jurisdiction, to have committed a violation of an
ordinance that the Board is authorized to adjudicate, for all fines assessed
for the violation and for all charges, costs, penalties, and fees, including
attorney’s fees, incurred by the city and county in connection with the
enforcement of this subchapter.
   (B)   The lien shall be recorded in the office of the County Clerk. The lien
shall be notice to all persons from the time of its recording and shall bear
interest, at the rate of 4% interest, until paid.
   (C)   Pursuant to KRS 65.8835, the lien shall take precedence over all other
liens on the property, except state, county, school board, and city taxes, and
may be enforced by judicial proceedings or, to the extent permitted by law, by
Administrative Hearing Board enforcement proceedings.
   (D)   In addition to the remedy prescribed in division (A) above, the person
found to have committed the violation shall be personally responsible for the
amount of all fines assessed for the violation, including an administration fee
of $60, and for all charges and fees incurred by the city and county in
connection with the enforcement of this subchapter. The city and county may
bring a civil action against the person and shall have the same remedies as
provided for the recovery of a debt.
(Ord. 2010-11, passed 5-12-2010; Ord. 2011-7, passed 7-27-2011; Ord. 2020-08,
passed 11-12-2020; Ord. 2022-2, passed 3-24-2022)
§ 33.199 LIENHOLDER NOTIFICATION SYSTEM.
   The city shall obtain and maintain priority over previously filed liens, as
provided in §
33.198, in accordance with the following provisions.
   (A)   Individuals and entities, including, but not limited to, the
lienholder, may register with the city to receive electronic notification of
final orders entered pursuant to this subchapter.
   (B)   In order to receive the notification, the registrant shall submit the
following information to the City Clerk, code enforcement staff, or another
designated city officer or employee:
      (1)   Name;
      (2)   Mailing address;
      (3)   Phone number; and
      (4)   Electronic mailing address.
   (C)   A registrant may use the electronic form provided on the city website
to submit the information required by division (B) of this section. It shall be
the responsibility of the registrant to maintain and update the required
contact information with the city. The city shall inform a registrant of any
evidence received that the electronic mailing address is invalid or not
functional so that the registrant may provide an updated electronic mailing
address.
   (D)   Once per month, once per week, once every two weeks, or at any other
interval, the city shall send electronic mail notification of all final orders
entered pursuant to this subchapter since the last date of notification to each
party registered pursuant to this section. The notification shall provide an
electronic link to the city code enforcement database located on the city
website. The database shall include the following information regarding each
final order:
      (1)   The name of the person charged with the violation;
      (2)   The physical address of the premises where the violation occurred;
      (3)   The last known mailing address for the owner of the premises where
the violation occurred, if, in the exercise of reasonable diligence, it is
ascertainable;
      (4)   A copy of the full citation;
      (5)   A copy of the full final order; and
      (6)   The status of the final order regarding its ability to be appealed
pursuant to this subchapter.
   (E)   If an appeal is filed on a final order pursuant to this subchapter,
the city shall send electronic mail notification to all registrants.
   (F)   The city shall update its code enforcement database to reflect the
issued final order, and shall post this notification required by division (D)
of this section containing an updated link to the code enforcement database in
a conspicuous space on the city website, at the same time that it provides the
electronic notification.
   (G)   The city shall maintain the records created under this section for ten
years following their issuance.
(Ord. 2022-2, passed 3-24-2022)
§ 33.200 ORDINANCES ENACTED AS THE NUISANCE CODE.
   The sections in this subchapter are enacted pursuant to KRS 65.8801 to
65.8840 and KRS 99.705 as part of the nuisance code.
(Ord. 2010-11, passed 5-12-2010; Ord. 2022-2, passed 3-24-2022)
§ 33.201 MAINTENANCE PERMIT REQUIRED.
   A property maintenance permit shall be required for the abatement of
violations under any of the provision of this code.
(Ord. 2010-11, passed 5-12-2010)
§ 33.202 DANGEROUS AND STRUCTURALLY UNSAFE BUILDINGS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DANGEROUS BUILDING. Any building structure, or portion thereof, which
threatens the life, health, safety, or property of the public or its occupants
by reason of inadequate maintenance, dilapidation, obsolescence, fire hazard,
disaster, damage, infestation, or abandonment shall be deemed a DANGEROUS
BUILDING. The conditions which may cause a structure to be classified as a
DANGEROUS BUILDING include, but are not limited to, the following conditions:
      (1)   The walking surface of any aisle, passageway, stairway, or other
means of exit is so warped, worn, loose, torn, or otherwise unsafe as not to
provide a safe and adequate means of exit in case of fire or panic;
      (2)   Any portion, member, or appurtenance of the building or structure
which has been damaged by fire, earthquake, wind, flood, or by any other cause,
to such extent that it is likely to partially or completely collapse, fail,
detach, or dislodge;
      (3)   The building or structure, or any portion thereof, because of
dilapidation, deterioration or decay; faulty construction; the removal,
movement, or instability of any portion of the ground necessary for the purpose
of supporting such building; the deterioration, decay, or inadequacy of its
foundation; or any other cause, is likely to partially or completely collapse;
      (4)   The building or structure has been so damaged by fire, wind,
earthquake, or flood, or has become so dilapidated or deteriorated as to become
an attractive nuisance to children, or a harbor for transients, vagrants, or
criminals;
      (5)   The building or structure, used or intended to be used for dwelling
purposes, is unsanitary, unfit for human habitation, or in such a condition
that is likely to cause sickness or disease because of inadequate maintenance,
dilapidation, decay, damage, faulty construction or arrangement, inadequate
light, air, or sanitation facilities or other cause;
      (6)   The building or structure creates a fire hazard by virtue of its
obsolescence, dilapidated condition, deterioration, damage, inadequate exiting,
lack of sufficient fire-resistive construction, faulty electric wiring, gas
connections or heating apparatus, or other cause;
      (7)   The building or structure constitutes a public nuisance as defined
by law;
      (8)   Any portion of the building, including the foundation and slab or
grade, or structure, remains on a site after the demolition or destruction of
the building or structure;
      (9)   The exits of the building or means of exiting do not conform with
the applicable city ordinances regarding the number of exits, their width, or
any other features which may cause a hazard to the life or safety of the
occupants or general public;
      (10)   Defective or overloaded electrical systems, faulty or leaking fuel
piping systems, or deteriorated fuel combustion equipment or combustion product
vents; and/or
      (11)   The existing use or occupancy violates the fire, health, or
building regulations of applicable city ordinances.
   STRUCTURALLY UNSAFE STRUCTURE. Any structure, building, or portion thereof
is deemed STRUCTURALLY UNSAFE if it has any one of the following conditions:
      (1)   Structural components which cannot withstand 100% of the vertical
design loads for the actual use of the building; provided, however, if a
building complies with the vertical load carrying capacity requirements that
were in effect when the building was built, the building shall not be
considered structurally unsafe because of failure to comply with current
requirements. In lieu of engineering analysis, the load carrying capacity for
flexural floor or roof members may be demonstrated by a load test, provided the
amount of load and procedure used are first approved by the Code Official;
      (2)   Structural components which cannot withstand 25% of the wind or
earthquake forces; or
      (3)   Parapet walls or other building appendages which are not capable of
resisting the wind or earthquake forces specified by the applicable city
ordinance.
(Ord. 2010-11, passed 5-12-2010)
§ 33.203 REPAIR, VACATION, AND DEMOLITION.
   (A)   Standards. The Board shall follow these standards in ordering the
repair, vacation, or demolition of any structurally unsafe or dangerous
structure.
      (1)   Any building declared structurally unsafe or dangerous under this
subchapter shall be repaired in accordance with the most recent Building Code.
Any building designated as historical shall not be demolished pursuant to this
section. The owner must ensure that his or her historical building complies
with all applicable state and local regulations and ordinances.
      (2)   The owner of the property, in cooperation with the Code Official,
shall assist in the relocation of any tenants which are displaced as a result
of this abatement process.
   (B)   Posting of signs.
      (1)   When the Code Official orders the vacation of tenants and when the
building is secured, signs shall be posed at or near each entrance of the
building and shall be in substantially the following form:
DO NOT ENTER UNSAFE TO OCCUPY
It is unlawful to occupy this building or to remove or deface this notice. City
Ordinance Code
Official City of Winchester
      (2)   The notice to vacate shall also be posted and it shall recite the
conditions in the notice issued by the Code Official.
   (C)   Trespass. No person shall remain in or enter any building which has
been so posted, except that entry may be made to repair or demolish such
building under proper permit.
   (D)   Defacement. No person shall remove or deface any such sign or notice
after it is posted until the required repairs have been completed and a
certificate of occupancy issued pursuant to the provisions of the Building Code
or until demolition is finished and all debris removed pursuant to the
demolition permit.
(Ord. 2010-11, passed 5-12-2010) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 33.204 ENFORCE DELINQUENCIES.
   Pursuant to KRS 65.8801 to 65.8839 and other applicable law, the Board may,
in accordance with the provisions of this subchapter, determine and enforce
delinquencies of the Transient Room Tax, §§
38.15 through
38.17; occupational license fees, §§
110.02 through
110.09,
110.21,
110.35 through
110.38; Board penalties, §§
38.99,
110.99; erosion prevention and sediment control plan requirements, §
153.131; and foreclose upon other authorized liens of record.
(Ord. 2020-08, passed 11-12-2020; Ord. 2022-2, passed 3-24-2022)
§ 33.205 FINAL ACTION BY PLANNING COMMISSION OR BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT.
   Upon final action by the Planning Commission or Board of Adjustment, or if
an appeal is taken pursuant to KRS 100.347, upon final adjudication by a court
of competent jurisdiction, when no penalty for violation of the final action or
judgment has been imposed, the matter may be referred by the Planning
Commission or Board of Adjustment to the Administrative Hearing Board pursuant
to §
33.184(A) for issuance of a citation, and further proceedings in accordance
with §
33.184(B).
(Ord. 2020-08, passed 11-12-2020; Ord. 2022-2, passed 3-24-2022)
HEARING BOARD CONCERNING NUISANCES
§ 33.215 DEFINITION.
   For the purposes of this subchapter, the term PUBLIC NUISANCE is hereby
defined as:
   (A)   Any premises or place where law enforcement officers have, on more
than three occasions in one calendar year, criminally cited or arrested a
person for violation of the laws governing assault, sexual offenses,
prostitution, weapons, gambling on the premises, any felony or executed a
court-issued search warrant for violation of the laws governing assault, sexual
offenses, prostitution, controlled substances, weapons, gambling on the
premises or any felony; or
   (B)   Any premises or place where Code Enforcement Officers have, on more
than three occasions in one calendar year, cited or given written notice of
violation a person for violation of the sections of this code as set out at §
90.71(B). Instances in which the occupant is the victim of the crime and had no
control over the criminal act shall not be considered in the number of
occasions including domestic violence calls for service for purposes of
division (A) of this section.
(Ord. 2018-06, passed 4-11-2018; Ord. 2022-2, passed 3-24-2022)
§ 33.216 PROHIBITION.
   No owner of property located within the city or county shall allow his or
her property to be used as the site for any public nuisance after having
received notice pursuant to section §
33.218 that the property has been used for the commission of a public nuisance.
This prohibition shall apply to both rental and owner-occupied property. A
legal or equitable owner of the property is deemed to have knowledge of such
activity upon receipt of the notice as set forth in this subchapter.
(Ord. 2018-06, passed 4-11-2018; Ord. 2022-2, passed 3-24-2022)
§ 33.217 ENFORCEMENT.
   Any Code Official or Code Enforcement Officer, as defined in KRS 65.8805(4),
hereafter Code Official, shall be responsible for enforcement of this
subchapter, relating to public nuisances, including the Chief of Police or his
or her designated representative. Enforcement of this code section shall be
initiated by the filing of a uniform citation issued by a sworn law enforcement
officer or by citation or notice of violation issued by a Code Enforcement
Officer.
(Ord. 2018-06, passed 4-11-2018; Ord. 2022-2, passed 3-24-2022)
§ 33.218 ABATEMENT PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Duty to notify owner. Whenever the Code Official receives information
that a public nuisance exists or may come to exist in or upon the property, he
or she shall notify the owner of the property, and any representative
designated by the owner pursuant to division (D) below, that the property is
being used in a manner that has or may come to constitute a public nuisance and
that the public nuisance is subject to abatement.
   (B)   Notice to abate. It shall be the duty of the Code Official to serve or
cause to be served a notice upon the owner of any premises upon which there is
kept or maintained a public nuisance in violation of §
33.215. The notice shall describe the nuisance so maintained and shall demand
its abatement. The notice to abate shall be personally served upon the owner or
shall be mailed to the last known address of the owner of the property as it
appears on the current tax assessment roll. If the owner of the property cannot
be ascertained from the tax rolls in the exercise of reasonable diligence, the
Code Official shall make an affidavit to that effect; and the service of the
notice upon the owners may be made by publication in a newspaper of general
circulation for two consecutive days. If notice is made by publication, a copy
of the notice shall be posted in a conspicuous place on the premises affected
by the notice. The notice shall include a citation or notice of violation and a
statement to the effect that civil penalties of not less than $500 nor more
than $5,000 may be imposed if the public nuisance is not abated, and shall
state the procedure and time frame established by §
33.225 for appealing the notice to abate or the imposition of civil penalties,
when applicable.
   (C)   Order to close and vacate. Should the public nuisance not be abated by
or before the date stated in the notice to abate, the Code Official shall be
authorized at any time thereafter to issue an order closing and vacating the
premises to the extent necessary to abate the public nuisance. The closing and
vacating shall be for such period of time as the Code Official reasonably may
direct, but in no event shall the closing and vacating persist for a period
longer than the next scheduled enforcement hearing of the Administrative
Hearing Board, if the cited person files a notice of appeal. An order to close
and vacate issued pursuant to this section is not an act of possession,
ownership or control by the city or county government. An to order close and
vacate shall be rescinded within 14 days of an abatement, unless the premises
is the site of repeated orders to close and vacate.
   (D)   Service of notice to abate order to close and vacate. A notice to
abate or order to close and vacate shall be personally served upon the owner or
shall be mailed by certified mail, return receipt requested, to the last known
address of the property owner as it appears on the current tax assessment roll.
If the owner of the property cannot be ascertained from the tax rolls in the
exercise of reasonable diligence, the Code Official shall make an affidavit to
that effect; and the serving of the notice upon the owners may be made by
publication in a newspaper of general circulation for two consecutive days. A
copy of the notice or order shall be posted in a conspicuous place on the
premises affected by the notice. Any property owner may voluntarily file with
the Code Official a completed certificate, on a form provided by the Code
Official, that provides the name and address of a management company or
designated representative with authority over the subject property and an
alternative address for the property owner to which all notices issued under
this section also shall be served.
   (E)   Lien. The city or county shall have a lien, pursuant to and as set out
in §§
33.198 and
33.199 or KRS 65.8835, against the property for any civil penalties, charges,
and fees imposed for the reasonable value of the labor and materials to abate
public nuisance if necessary. This lien shall be evidenced by notice of lien
claim filed in the County Court Clerk’s office, which shall include the
affidavit of the Code Official, setting forth the property in question, the
amount of the city or county government’s cost and date of abatement, if any,
the amount of the civil penalty, if any, and shall recite compliance with the
notice provisions of this section before abatement or assessment of civil
penalty. The Code Official shall bill the property owner of the premises at
least once and no notice of lien claim shall be filed against the property
until 14 days have elapsed since the bill was sent. If the property is the
subject of litigation, then the lien may be filed immediately upon the mailing
of the bill. A copy of the notice of the lien claim shall be mailed to the
owner of the premises, or published in a newspaper of general circulation, as
required by statute, where the owner of the property cannot be ascertained.
However, the failure of the Clerk to record the notice of lien claim or the
failure to mail to the owner a copy of the notice or publish same, or the
failure of the owner to receive the notice shall not affect the right to
foreclose the lien for the charges as provided in division (F) or KRS 65.8835
(e).
   (F)   Property to be sold. Property subject to a lien for unpaid public
nuisance abatement cost or civil penalties shall be sold, as indicated herein
or pursuant to KRS 65.8801 to 65.8840, for nonpayment of the same. The proceeds
of the sale shall be applied to the charges after deducting costs as is the
case in foreclosing of statutory liens. The foreclosure shall be an equity in
the name of the city or county government.
(Ord. 2018-06, passed 4-11-2018; Ord. 2022-2, passed 3-24-2022)
§ 33.219 ACTION ON FAILURE TO COMPLY.
   If any person fails to comply with the notice to abate a public nuisance or
in order to close and vacate issued pursuant to this subchapter, the Code
Official may:
   (A)   Issue a notice of violation (citation) assessing civil penalties of
not less than $500 nor more than $5,000, with notice of the assessment of a
civil penalty for violation to be made in the manner specified in §
33.218 herein;
   (B)   Revoke the certificate of occupancy of the premises; or
   (C)   Use any other legal remedy available under the laws of the
Commonwealth, including KRS 65.8801 to 8840.
(Ord. 2018-06, passed 4-11-2018; Ord. 2022-2, passed 3-24-2022)
§ 33.220 DESTROYING, REMOVING OR DEFACING NOTICE; DISOBEYING ORDER.
   No person shall destroy, remove or deface any notice order posted by the
Code Official. No person shall disobey any order to close or vacate, or use or
occupy or permit any other person to use or occupy any premises ordered closed.
(Ord. 2018-06, passed 4-11-2018; Ord. 2022-2, passed 3-24-2022)
§ 33.221 MULTIPLE UNIT DWELLINGS.
   If the premises consists of multiple unit dwellings or mixed uses and the
public nuisance has occurred solely within a unit or units, the authority to
issue an order to close and vacate is restricted to the unit or units in which
the public nuisance has occurred and does not extend to any other unit in the
premises.
(Ord. 2018-06, passed 4-11-2018; Ord. 2022-2, passed 3-24-2022)
§ 33.222 DEFENSE TO VIOLATION.
   It shall be a defense to a violation of this section if the owner has
instituted an eviction proceeding within 30 days of the notice against the
offending tenant(s) and all occupants of the premises, and completes the
eviction within 75 days of commencement of the eviction proceeding or as soon
thereafter as court procedure will allow. In the event that judicial
proceedings or quasi-judicial proceedings prohibit an owner from proceeding
with an eviction, enforcement under this subchapter will be stayed until the
judicial or quasi-judicial proceeding is resolved. It shall be the
responsibility of the owner to provide in writing to the Code Official, notice
that an eviction proceeding has been instituted and to provide other proof of
the proceeding as may reasonably be requested by the Code Official.
(Ord. 2018-06, passed 4-11-2018; Ord. 2022-2, passed 3-24-2022)
§ 33.223 HEARING.
   (A)   Any person affected by notice to abate, order to close and vacate, or
civil penalty assessment that has been issued in connection with the
enforcement of sections of this code shall have the right to request, and shall
have granted a hearing on the matter, provided that the person shall file with
the Administrative Hearing Board, as established by §
33.183, or its designee, a written request for the hearing and the grounds
therefor within seven days. The Code Official shall make available, upon
request, a preprinted appeal form. The seven-day period provided for in this
section shall be deemed to commence as follows:
      (1)   Where notice is personally served, on the day following service;
      (2)   Where notice is served by certified mail, on the third day
following mailing;
      (3)   Where notice is by publication, on the third day following the
initial day of publication.
   (B)   Failure to appeal. A notice to abate, an order to close and vacate, or
the assessment of a civil penalty for violations of sections §
90.71(B) and (C) of the code shall represent a determination that the violation
has been committed and that determination shall be final, unless an appeal is
timely taken to the Administrative Hearing Board established by §
33.183.
   (C)   Pursuant to §
33.196(A) of this code, an appeal from the Board’s determination may be made to
the County District Court within 30 days of the Board’s determination.
(Ord. 2018-06, passed 4-11-2018; Ord. 2022-2, passed 3-24-2022)
§ 33.224 NOTICE OF HEARING; CONDUCT OF HEARING.
   A member of the Administrative Hearing Board, or its designee, shall give
notice of a hearing to the parties not less than ten days in advance of the day
set for the hearing, in the form and manner provided in §§
33.193 through
33.195 of this code. The hearing shall be conducted in the form and manner
provided by §§
33.194, 33.195 of this code.
(Ord. 2018-06, passed 4-11-2018; Ord. 2022-2, passed 3-24-2022)
§ 33.225 WRITTEN ORDER OF HEARING OFFICER; APPEAL.
   Within a reasonable time after the conclusion of the hearing, the Board
shall issue a written order in the form and manner provided in §
33.194(F) of this code. An appeal from any final order issued by the
Administrative Hearing Board may be made to the County District Court within 30
days of the date the order was issued pursuant to §
33.196(A). There shall be no appeals from such orders to the Board.
(Ord. 2018-06, passed 4-11-2018; Ord. 2022-2, passed 3-24-2022)
WINCHESTER-CLARK COUNTY ACTIVE TRANSPORTATION COMMITTEE
§ 33.240 CREATED.
   A joint active transportation committee is hereby created, which hereafter
will be known as the “Winchester-Clark County Active Transportation Committee”.
(Ord. 2019-04, passed 7-10-2019)
§ 33.241 FUNCTION.
   The Winchester-Clark County Active Transportation Committee shall have as
its function the task of identifying policies and procedures for improving
access to sidewalks, paths, and community locations in Winchester and The
county, collectively, and to envision ways in which local policies and
procedures, as they relate to active transportation, can be utilized to fill
the main purposes of each, to better the quality of life and safety for all
citizens of this community, and to provide the greatest benefit to the citizens
given the resources of the community and governments.
(Ord. 2019-04, passed 7-10-2019)
§ 33.242 PURPOSES.
   The Winchester-Clark County Active Transportation Committee shall collect
and record input from the general public, with the assistance of Bluegrass
Rails to Trails Foundation, Inc., and other community groups for the purposes
of prioritizing active transportation policies and projects, and updating the
Winchester-Clark County Active Transportation Plan and the Winchester-Clark
County Comprehensive Plan.
(Ord. 2019-04, passed 7-10-2019)
§ 33.243 RESPONSIBLE FOR ORGANIZING AN ANNUAL CONFERENCE OF STAKEHOLDERS.
   The Winchester-Clark County Active Transportation Advisory Committee is
hereby responsible for organizing, no less than annually, a conference of
stakeholders to evaluate and report on the progress of the Winchester-Clark
County Active Transportation Plan. These stakeholders include, but are not
limited to: the Clark County Activity Coalition, Winchester-Clark County Parks
and Recreation, Clark County Public Schools, Winchester-Clark County Chamber of
Commerce, Winchester-Clark County Tourism Commission, the Greater Clark
Foundation, the Clark County Community Foundation, and the Bluegrass Cycling
Club.
(Ord. 2019-04, passed 7-10-2019)
§ 33.244 POWERS.
   The Winchester-Clark County Active Transportation Advisory Committee is
hereby empowered with the authority to recommend such regulations and policies
as may be necessary for the establishment or perpetuation of the active
transportation network. Regulation and policy recommendations shall be
forwarded to the appropriate organization or jurisdiction for consideration.
The Winchester-Clark County Active Transportation Advisory Committee is further
empowered to recommend necessary changes to the existing Winchester-Clark
County Active Transportation Plan as necessary to carry out the goals of the
Winchester-Clark County Active Transportation Advisory Committee.
(Ord. 2019-04, passed 7-10-2019)
§ 33.245 MEMBERSHIP.
   The Winchester-Clark County Active Transportation Advisory Committee shall
consist of members, approved by the City Commission and the County Fiscal Court
as follows:
   (A)   One appointee from the City Commission;
   (B)   One appointee from the County Fiscal Court;
   (C)   One member from the County Health Department, nominated by the County
Board of Health and approved by County Fiscal Court;
   (D)   Two additional at-large citizen members, nominated by Bluegrass Rails
to Trails Foundation, Inc.:
      (1)   One representative approved by the City Commission;
      (2)   One representative approved by the County Fiscal Court.
(Ord. 2019-04, passed 7-10-2019)
§ 33.246 TERM.
   The Committee shall be appointed by the City Commission, the County Fiscal
Court, the County Board of Health, and Bluegrass Rails to Trails Foundation,
Inc. for terms of three years.
(Ord. 2019-04, passed 7-10-2019)
§ 33.247 APPOINTING AUTHORITIES.
   The initial Committee shall consist of the representatives of the above
agencies, with the appointing authority for the City Commission representative
being the Mayor, and for the Fiscal Court, the County Judge/Executive. At-large
appointees shall be chosen in accordance with the policies and bylaws of the
appointing agency, and approved by the County Fiscal Court and City Commission.
Appointees serve at the pleasure of the appointing authority and until a
successor has been appointed. All appointees serve without compensation.
Additional government and non-government agencies may be added by amendment to
this subchapter, subject to approval by the City Commission and the County
Fiscal Court.
(Ord. 2019-04, passed 7-10-2019)
CHAPTER 34: PERSONNEL ADMINISTRATION
Section
General Provisions
   
34.01   Administration; purpose
   
34.02   Affirmative action
   
34.03   Job classifications
   
34.04   Selection process
   
34.05   Progressive discipline
   
34.06   Other personnel matters
Ethics of County Officials and Employees
   
34.20   Definitions
   
34.21   Fair and equal treatment
   
34.22   Conflicts of interest
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 34.01 ADMINISTRATION; PURPOSE.
   According to state and constitutional law, the County Judge/Executive serves
as a member and presiding officer of the Fiscal Court and acts as the county’s
chief executive and administrative official (Ky. Const. § 124, KRS 67.040,
67.710). The County Judge/Executive, or his or her designee, shall develop,
implement, and administer a personnel or human resource management system which
will include, among others, provisions for affirmative action, recruitment,
motivation, classification, compensation, training, progressive discipline,
benefits, ethics, conflicts of interest; all for the purpose of promoting
greater employee involvement and enhancing productivity, quality, and
efficiency of the work force at the county level.
(Prior Code, § 24.001) (Ord. passed 6-13-1994)
§ 34.02 AFFIRMATIVE ACTION.
   (A)   The County Judge/Executive shall develop and maintain an Affirmative
Action Plan consisting of:
      (1)   A statement of policy;
      (2)   Methods for dissemination of the policy;
      (3)   Work force analysis; and
      (4)   Goals and timetables.
   (B)   The County Judge/Executive is responsible for the implementation of
the county’s affirmative action plan.
   (C)   The County Judge/Executive shall maintain, in current order, the
following documentation:
      (1)   Job classification for each position with minimum requirements
based on tasks performed;
      (2)   Work force analysis which shows for each EEO-4 category, the number
of persons employed, the pay range, race, sex, and date of last promotion;
      (3)   Roster containing name, position class, department, race, sex, pay
range, date employed, and last promotion for each county employee; and
      (4)   Applicant flow chart.
   (D)   The County Judge/Executive shall receive progress reports showing
personnel actions from each agency and office of the county and shall prepare a
consolidated report on equal employment opportunity progress on all county
employees for submission to the Fiscal Court as required.
(Prior Code, § 24.002) (Ord. passed 6-13-1994)
§ 34.03 JOB CLASSIFICATIONS.
   (A)   Each job classification shall be in writing and include:
      (1)   A concise, descriptive title; and
      (2)   Description of the duties and responsibilities of each position in
each classification; and a statement of minimum and/or desirable qualifications
for each position.
   (B)   All positions in a single class shall be sufficiently alike to permit
use of a single title, description, qualifications, and pay range.
   (C)   Current job classifications shall be maintained in the current county
personnel policies and procedures.
(Prior Code, § 24.003)
§ 34.04 SELECTION PROCESS.
   (A)   The public may be notified of any vacancy to be filled by publication
in the newspaper of greatest circulation in the county.
   (B)   All current county employees shall be notified at work of any vacancy
in a conspicuous place at work; positions shall be filled by promotion of such
employees whenever practicable.
   (C)   Each applicant shall fill out and sign a standard written job
application form. Applications shall be kept for as long as specified in the
Archives and Records County Retention Schedule.
   (D)   Each qualified applicant shall be interviewed by the person who is to
be the immediate supervisor of such employee.
   (E)   The County Judge/Executive shall make the selection, subject to
approval of the Fiscal Court when required, and notify the applicant and
supervisor, in writing, of the selection.
   (F)   EEO information shall be obtained from the applicant on a separate
form and on a voluntary basis. It shall not be used to exclude any person from
employment.
(Prior Code, § 24.004) (Ord. passed 6-13-1994)
§ 34.05 PROGRESSIVE DISCIPLINE.
   (A)   The County Judge/Executive shall discipline county employees through a
system of progressive discipline, which includes verbal warning, written
reprimand, suspension, or discharge.
   (B)   Procedures for disciplining employees, for notice of disciplinary
action, and for appeals from such action shall follow the progressive
discipline provisions of the county’s personnel policies and procedures.
(Prior Code, § 24.005) (Ord. passed 6-13-1994)
§ 34.06 OTHER PERSONNEL MATTERS.
   Other personnel matters including, but not limited to, fringe benefits,
employees’ records, and official travel shall be governed by the County
Personnel Policies and Procedures.
(Prior Code, § 24.006) (Ord. passed 6-13-1994)
ETHICS OF COUNTY OFFICIALS AND EMPLOYEES
§ 34.20 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   FINANCIAL INTEREST. Any interest which shall yield, directly or indirectly,
a monetary or other material benefit (other than the duly authorized salary or
compensation for services to the county) to the official or employee or to any
person employing or retaining the services of the official or employee.
Interest in a corporation, partnership, or firm of less than 5% of ownership or
benefits is not considered an INTEREST.
   OFFICIAL or EMPLOYEE. A member of the Fiscal Court, its appointees, elected
county officials, and their deputies, whether paid or unpaid, and whether part-
time or full-time.
   PUBLIC BODY. Any agency, board, body, committee, or department of the county
appointed by the County Judge/Executive with the approval of the Fiscal Court
and any office headed by an independent elected official.
(Prior Code, § 24.100) (Ord. passed 6-13-1994)
§ 34.21 FAIR AND EQUAL TREATMENT.
   (A)   Every official and employee shall make available the same services,
treatment, and consideration to every member of the public.
   (B)   No official or employee shall request, use, or permit the use of any
publicly-owned or publicly-supported property, vehicle, equipment, material, or
service for the personal convenience or the private advantage of self or any
other person unless such use has been formally authorized by a resolution of
Fiscal Court.
(Prior Code, § 24.101) (Ord. passed 6-13-1994)
§ 34.22 CONFLICTS OF INTEREST.
   (A)   No county official or employee shall commit or participate in any
action which constitutes a conflict of interest with the public trust of a
county official or employment.
   (B)   The following actions constitute a conflict of interest with the
public trust of a county office or employment:
      (1)   Participation in negotiations with the county;
      (2)   Acquiring or maintaining an interest in any contract upon which he
or she may be called to vote or receipt of anything of value to influence his
or her vote;
      (3)   Contracting with the county except through public bid;
      (4)   Acquiring or maintaining an interest in or receiving benefits from
any contract by Fiscal Court for work to be done, services to be rendered, or
material to be furnished for public improvements;
      (5)   Receipt of compensation or anything of value other than authorized
salary for services in any cause or matter before a county agency;
      (6)   Conduct of any governmental business with self or any firm,
corporation, or partnership in which he or she has a financial interest; and
      (7)   Use of confidential information concerning any governmental
official, employee, property, or action to advance the financial or personal
interest of one’s self or any other person.
   (C)   When an official or employee is called upon to deliberate and vote on
any matter involving his or her financial or personal interest, he or she shall
publicly disclose the nature and extent of such interest and disqualify himself
or herself from participation in the deliberations and in the voting.
   (D)   No official or employee shall engage in private employment with, or
render services for, any private person, firm, partnership, or corporation who
has business transactions with any public body unless he or she shall first
make full public disclosure of the nature and extent of such employment or
services.
   (E)   No official or employee shall accept from any person or corporation
any gift or thing of value which would not be offered or given if he or she
were not an official or employee.
   (F)   No official or employee shall, without prior formal authorization of
the public body having jurisdiction, disclose any confidential information
concerning any official, employee, person, property, or governmental action.
   (G)   No elected official shall appoint or vote for the appointment of any
person related to him or her by blood or marriage to any office, clerkship,
employment, duty, or other position when any compensation is to be paid from
public funds for such position.   
(Prior Code, § 24.102) (Ord. passed 6-13-1994) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 35: CODE OF ETHICS
Section
General Provisions
   
35.01   Purpose; authority
   
35.02   Definitions
   
35.03   Conflicts of interest
Financial Disclosure
   
35.15   Who must file
   
35.16   Contents of the financial interest statement
   
35.17   Noncompliance with filing requirement
   
35.18   Where to file statements
Nepotism
   
35.30   Nepotism prohibited
County Ethics Commission
   
35.45   Membership; compensation
   
35.46   Term; appointment
   
35.47   Vacancies
   
35.48   Powers; duties
   
35.49   Complaint procedure; preliminary investigations
   
35.50   Action by Commission
   
35.51   Appeals
 
   
35.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   County Policies, see
Ch. 36
   Government Organization, see
Ch. 30
   Personnel Administration, see
Ch. 34
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 35.01 PURPOSE; AUTHORITY.
   (A)   Pursuant to the authority granted by KRS Chapter 65, the county hereby
establishes a code of ethics to guide the conduct of elected and appointed
county officers and employees, including members of the Fiscal Court, Sheriff,
County Attorney, County Clerk, Jailer, Coroner, Surveyor, and Constable.
   (B)   It is the purpose of this chapter to provide a method of assuring that
standards of ethical conduct for local government officers and employees shall
be clear, consistent, and uniform in their application, and to provide local
officers and employees with advice and information concerning possible
conflicts of interest which might arise in the conduct of their public duties.
(Prior Code, § 25.001) (Ord. 94-9, passed 11-9-1994)
§ 35.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUSINESS ASSOCIATE. Includes the following:
      (1)   A private employer;
      (2)   A general or limited partnership, or a general or limited partner
within the partnership;
 
      (3)   A corporation that is family-owned or in which all shares of stock
are closely-held, and the shareholders, owners, and officers of such a
corporation; and
      (4)   A corporation, business association, or other business entity in
which the county government officer or employee serves as a compensated agent
or representative.
   BUSINESS ORGANIZATION. Any corporation, partnership, sole proprietorship,
form, enterprise, franchise, association, organization, self-employed
individual, holding company, joint stock company, receivership, trust,
professional services corporation, or any legal entity through which business
is conducted for profit.
   CANDIDATE. An individual who seeks nomination or election to a county
government office. An individual is a CANDIDATE when the individual:
      (1)   Files a notification and declaration for nomination for office with
a County Clerk or the Secretary; or
      (2)   Is nominated for office by a political party under KRS 118.105,
118.115, 118.325, or 118.760.
   COUNTY GOVERNMENT AGENCY. Any board, commission, authority, non-stock
corporation, or other entity formed by the county government or a combination
of local governments.
   COUNTY GOVERNMENT EMPLOYEE. Any person, whether compensated or not, whether
full-time or part-time, employed by or serving the county government, or county
government agency who is not a county government officer, but shall not mean
any employee of a school district or school board.
   COUNTY GOVERNMENT OFFICER. Any person, whether compensated or not, whether
full-time or part-time, who is elected to any county government office; or any
person who serves as a member of the governing body of any county government
agency or special taxing or non-taxing district.
   FAMILY MEMBER. Any relative who is first cousin or closer in relationship,
by blood or marriage.
   MEMBER OF IMMEDIATE FAMILY. A spouse, an unemancipated child residing in an
individual’s household, or a person claimed by the individual or individual’s
spouse as a dependent for tax purposes.
(Prior Code, § 25.002) (Ord. 94-9, passed 11-9-1994)
§ 35.03 CONFLICTS OF INTEREST.
   (A)   No county government officer or employee or member of his or her
immediate family shall have an interest in a business organization or engage in
any business, transaction, or professional activity which is in substantial
conflict with the proper discharge of his or her duties in the public interest.
   (B)   No county government officer or employee shall use or attempt to use
his or her official position to secure unwarranted privileges or advantages for
himself or herself.
   (C)   No county government officer shall act in his or her official capacity
in any matter where he or she, a member of his or her immediate family, or a
business organization in which he or she has an interest, has a direct or
indirect financial or personal involvement that might reasonably be expected to
impair his or her objectivity or independence of judgment.
   (D)   No county government officer or employee shall undertake any
employment or service, compensated or not, which might reasonably be expected
to prejudice his or her independence of judgment in the exercise of his or her
official duties.
   (E)   No county government officer or employee shall be prohibited from
giving or receiving any award publicly presented in recognition of public
service, reasonable commercial loans made in the ordinary course of the
lender’s business, or reasonable hosting, including travel and expenses,
entertainment, meals, or refreshments furnished in connection with public
events, appearances, ceremonies, or fact finding trips related to official
county government business.
   (F)   No county government officer shall be prohibited from accepting
gratuity for solemnizing a marriage.
   (G)   No county government officer or employee shall use, or allow to be
used, in his or her public office or employment, or any information not
generally available to the members of the public, which he or she receives or
acquires in the course of and by reason of his or her office or employment, for
the purpose of securing financial gain for himself or herself, or any member of
his or her immediate family.
   (H)   No county government officer or employee or business organization in
which he or she has an interest shall represent any person or party other than
the local government in connection with any cause, proceeding, application, or
other matter pending before any agency in the local government in which he or
she serves.
   (I)   No county government officer shall be deemed in conflict with these
provisions if, by reason of his or her participation in the enactment of any
ordinance, resolution, or other matter required to be voted upon or which is
subject to executive approval or veto, no material or monetary gain accrues to
him or her as a member of any business, profession, occupation, or group, to
any greater extent than any gain could reasonably be expected to accrue to any
other member of such business, profession, occupation, or group.
   (J)   No elected county government officer shall be prohibited from making
an inquiry for information or providing assistance on behalf of a constituent,
if no fee, reward, or other thing of value is promised to, given to, or
accepted by the officer or a member of his or her immediate family, whether
directly or indirectly, in return therefor.
   (K)   Nothing shall prohibit any county government officer or employee, or
members of his or her immediate family, from representing himself or herself,
or themselves, in negotiations for proceedings concerning his, her, or their
own interests.
(Prior Code, § 25.100) (Ord. 94-9, passed 11-9-1994) Penalty, see §
35.99
FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE
§ 35.15 WHO MUST FILE.
   The following individuals shall be required to file a financial disclosure
statement:
   (A)   Elected officers;
   (B)   Candidates for elected office;
   (C)   Management personnel such as chief deputies, department heads; and
   (D)   Officer and employees with procurement authority exceeding $500 per
purchase.
(Prior Code, § 25.200) (Ord. 94-9, passed 11-9-1994)
§ 35.16 CONTENTS OF THE FINANCIAL INTEREST STATEMENT.
   (A)   The financial disclosure statement shall include the following
information:
      (1)   Name of filer;
      (2)   Current business address, telephone number, and home address of
filer;
      (3)   Title of filer’s public office or office sought;
      (4)   Occupation of filer;
      (5)   Positions held by the filer in any business organization or
nonprofit entity from which the filer received compensation in excess of $5,000
during the preceding calendar year, and the name, address, and telephone number
of the business organization or nonprofit entity;
      (6)   Name and address of each source of income of the filer from within
the state which exceeds $5,000 during the preceding calendar year;
      (7)   Name and address of each business organization located within the
state in which the filer had an interest of $10,000 at the fair market value;
      (8)   The location and type (commercial, residential, agricultural) of
all real property within the county in which the filer had an interest of
$10,000 at the fair market value;
      (9)   Any officer or employee of the county government who shall have any
private financial interest, directly or indirectly, in any contract or matter
pending before or within any department or agency of the county government
shall disclose such private interest to the Fiscal Court;
      (10)   Any County Judge/Executive, Magistrate, or Commissioner, sheriff,
jailer, coroner, constable, surveyor, County Attorney, County Clerk, or a
member of his or her immediate family, who has a private interest in any matter
pending before the court shall disclose such private interest on the records of
the court and shall disqualify himself or herself from participating in any
decision or vote relating thereto; and
      (11)   Any officer or employee of an independent agency or special
district to which this Code of Ethics applies who shall have any private
financial interest, directly or indirectly, in any contract or matter pending
before or within such independent agency or special district shall disclose
such private interest to the governing body of such agency or district.
   (B)   Each statement shall be signed and dated by the individual filing the
statement of financial interest. Knowingly signing a fraudulent statement shall
be a Class A misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 25.201) (Ord. 94-9, passed 11-9-1994; Ord. 95-1, passed 2-8-
1995)
§ 35.17 NONCOMPLIANCE WITH FILING REQUIREMENT.
   All pay and benefits shall be withheld until a non-complying officer or
employee is in compliance with the filing requirements.
(Prior Code, § 25.202) (Ord. 94-9, passed 11-9-1994)
§ 35.18 WHERE TO FILE STATEMENTS.
   The financial disclosure statements shall be filed with the County Clerk.
(Prior Code, § 25.203) (Ord. 94-9, passed 11-9-1994) Penalty, see §
35.99
NEPOTISM
§ 35.30 NEPOTISM PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No officer or employee of the county or government agency shall
advocate, recommend, or cause the employment, appointment, promotion, transfer,
or advancement of a family member to an office or position of employment with
the county or government agency.
   (B)   No officer or employee of the county or government agency shall
supervise or manage the work of a family member.
   (C)   No officer or employee shall participate in any action relating to the
employment or discipline of a family member, except that this prohibition shall
not prevent an elected or appointed official from voting on or participating in
the development of a budget which includes compensation for a family member,
provided that the family member is included only as a member of a class of
persons or a group, and the family member benefits to no greater extent than
any other similarly situated member of the class or group.
   (D)   The provisions of this section shall not apply to a public officer’s
family member who was employed on or before January 1, 1995, in the same
governmental agency in which the public officer serves. This exception is
applicable only as long as the current officer is in office or the employee
remains employed by the governmental agency.
(Prior Code, § 25.300) (Ord. 94-9, passed 11-9-1994)
COUNTY ETHICS COMMISSION
§ 35.45 MEMBERSHIP; COMPENSATION.
   (A)   Membership. The County Ethics Commission shall consist of seven
members; not more than one member may be a public official. The Commission
member selected as Chairperson shall be a citizen member.
   (B)   Compensation. Members shall receive no compensation but may be
reimbursed all necessary expenses.
(Prior Code, § 25.400) (Ord. 94-9, passed 11-9-1994)
§ 35.46 TERM; APPOINTMENT.
   (A)   Term. Terms of the members shall be staggered, but no member shall
serve longer than four years on this Commission.
   (B)   Appointment.
      (1)   Members shall be appointed by the County Judge/Executive with the
approval of the Fiscal Court.
      (2)   All appointments shall be made no later than 60 days after the
adoption of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 25.401) (Ord. 94-9, passed 11-9-1994)
§ 35.47 VACANCIES.
   (A)   Vacancies on the County Ethics Commission shall be filled within 60
days by the County Judge/Executive subject to the approval of the Fiscal Court.
   (B)   If a vacancy is not filled by the County Judge/Executive within 60
days, the remaining members of the County Ethics Commission shall fill the
vacancy.
   (C)   All vacancies shall be filled for the remainder of the unexpired term.
(Prior Code, § 25.402) (Ord. 94-9, passed 11-9-1994)
§ 35.48 POWERS; DUTIES.
   (A)   The Commission shall have jurisdiction over the administration of this
code.
   (B)   The Commission may receive complaints; initiate investigations on its
own motion; and conduct investigations, inquiries, and hearings concerning any
matter covered by this code.
   (C)   The Commission may render advisory opinions whether or not a given set
of facts and circumstances constitute a violation of any provision of this
code.
   (D)   The Commission shall prescribe and provide forms for reports,
statements, notices, and other documents required by this code.
   (E)   The Commission shall determine whether the required statements and
reports have been filed and, if filed, whether they conform with the
requirements of this code. The Commission shall promptly give notice to the
filer to correct or explain any omission or deficiency.
   (F)   The Commission may retain private counsel at the expense of the county
if the County Attorney has an actual or potential conflict. Any counsel must be
preapproved by the Fiscal Court.
(Prior Code, § 25.403) (Ord. 94-9, passed 11-9-1994)
§ 35.49 COMPLAINT PROCEDURE; PRELIMINARY INVESTIGATIONS.
   (A)   (1)   Upon a complaint signed under penalty of perjury by any person,
or upon its own motion, the Commission shall investigate any alleged violation
of this code.
      (2)   No later than ten days after the Commission receives the complaint,
the Commission shall initiate a preliminary inquiry into any alleged violation
of this code.
      (3)   Within 30 days of the commencement of the inquiry, the Commission
shall forward a copy of the complaint and a general statement of the applicable
law to the person alleged to have committed a violation.
   (B)   All Commission proceedings and records relating to a preliminary
investigation shall be confidential until a final determination is made by the
Commission, except the Commission may turnover to the Commonwealth’s Attorney
or County Attorney of the jurisdiction in which the offense allegedly occurred,
evidence which may be used in criminal proceedings.
   (C)   The complainant or alleged violator shall not publicly disclose the
existence of a preliminary investigation. The Commission shall not publicly
confirm the existence of the inquiry nor make public any documents which were
issued to either party.
   (D)   The Commission shall afford a person who is the subject of a
preliminary investigation an opportunity to respond to the allegations in the
complaint. The person shall have the right to be represented by counsel, to
appear and be heard, and to offer evidence in response to the allegations in
the complaint.
   (E)   Any person who knowingly files with the Commission a false complaint
of misconduct on the part of any elected or appointed official or other person
shall be guilty of a Class A misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 25.404) (Ord. 94-9, passed 11-9-1994)
§ 35.50 ACTION BY COMMISSION.
   If the Commission concludes in its report that in consideration of the
evidence produced at the hearing there is clear and convincing proof of a
violation of this code, the Commission may:
   (A)   Issue an order requiring the violator to cease and desist the
violation;
   (B)   In writing, publicly reprimand the violator for the violations and
provide a copy of the reprimand to the executive authority and governing body
(if different than the executive authority) of the county or county agency with
which the violator serves;
   (C)   In writing, recommend to the executive authority and the governing
body (if different than the executive authority) that the violator be
sanctioned as recommended by the Commission which may include a recommendation
for discipline or dismissal;
   (D)   Issue an order requiring the violator to pay a civil penalty of not
more than $1,000; or
   (E)   Refer evidence of criminal violations of this code or state laws to
the County Attorney or Commonwealth’s Attorney of the jurisdiction for
prosecution.
(Prior Code, § 25.405) (Ord. 94-9, passed 11-9-1994)
§ 35.51 APPEALS.
   Any person found by the Commission to have committed a violation of this
code may appeal the action to the County Circuit Court. The appeal shall be
initiated within 30 days after the date of the final action of the Commission
by filing a petition with the Court against the Commission. The Commission
shall transmit to the Clerk of the Court all evidence by the Commission at the
public hearing. The Court shall hear the appeal upon the record as certified by
the Commission.
(Prior Code, § 25.406) (Ord. 94-9, passed 11-9-1994)
§ 35.99 PENALTY.
   Candidates and nominees who fail to comply with the filing requirements
pursuant to §
35.18 shall be fined $50 for each day they are in non-compliance.
(Prior Code, § 25.999)
CHAPTER 36: COUNTY POLICIES
Section
Personnel Policies and Procedures
   
36.001   Personnel policies adopted by reference
   
36.002   Detention center employee policy and procedure manual
   
36.003   Protection of personal information
Open Meetings
   
36.015   Compliance with state’s Open Meetings Act
Maintenance of Storm Water Drainage Facilities
   
36.030   Purpose
   
36.031   Definition
   
36.032   Maintenance
   
36.033   Cost sharing on private property
   
36.034   Open surface water drains
   
36.035   Acceptance
   
36.036   Blockage of surface water drainage
   
36.037   Enclosure/alteration of any natural or human-made sewers or drains
   
36.038   Retention basins
   
36.039   Enforcement
   
36.040   Appeals
Drug and Alcohol Policy
   
36.055   Short title
   
36.056   Adopted by reference
   
36.057   Application; modification
Grievance Procedures for Complaints Relating to Discrimination Based on
Disability Status
   
36.070   Purpose
   
36.071   Grievance procedures implemented
General Policies
   
36.085   Addressing system for 911 emergency response system
   
36.086   Numbering and naming properties
   
36.087   No smoking in government buildings
   
36.088   Electioneering prohibited near polling locations
   
36.089   Court costs
Cross-reference:
   Financial Administration, see
Ch. 32
   Government Organization, see
Ch. 30
   Personnel Administration, see
Ch. 34
PERSONNEL POLICIES AND PROCEDURES
§ 36.001 PERSONNEL POLICIES ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The County Personnel Policies and Procedures, as amended, are hereby adopted
by reference and made a part of this code as if fully set forth herein.
(Prior Code, § 26.001) (Ord. 2000-22, passed 11-8-2000; Ord. 2002-3, passed -
-; Ord. 2002-4, passed - -; Ord. 2002-5, passed 2-27-2002; Ord. 2002-6, passed
2-27-2002; Ord. 2002-7, passed - -; Ord. 2002-8, passed - -; Ord. 2002-9,
passed - -; 2004-21, passed 10-27-2004; Ord. 2007-10, passed 3-28-2007; Ord.
2007-17, passed 5-23-2007; Ord. 2007-18, passed 5-9-2007; Ord. 2007-20, passed
8-8-2007; Ord. 2007-24, passed 9-12-2007; Ord. 2008-7, passed 3-26-2008; Ord.
2008-14, passed 6-25-2008; Ord. 2008-16, passed 9-10-2008; Ord. 2008-18, passed
9-24-2008; Ord. 2008-20, passed 11-12-2008; Ord. 2009-3, passed 3-11-2009; Ord.
2009-10, passed 7-8-2009; Ord. 2009-19, passed 10-28-2009; Ord. 2009-21, passed
11-24-2009; Ord. 2009-22, passed 11-24-2009; Ord. 2009-23, passed 11-24-2009;
Ord. 2010-1, passed 1-27-2010; Ord. 2010-2, passed 1-27-2010; Ord. 2010-19,
passed 8-11-2010; Ord. 2010-12, passed 5-12-2010; Ord. 2010-24, passed 1-12-
2010; Ord. 2011-5, passed 4-27-2011; Ord. 2011-14, passed 10-25-2011; Ord.
2011-17, passed 11-9-2011; Ord. 2011-18, passed 11-9-2011; Ord. 2012-2, passed
2-22-2012; Ord. 2012-6, passed 5-23-2012; Ord. 2012-7, passed - -2012; Ord.
2012-9, passed 8-23-2012; Ord. 2012-10, passed 10-10-2012; Ord. 2012-11, passed
10-10-2012; Ord. 2013-5, passed 6-12-2013; Ord. 2013-6, passed 7-10-2013; Ord.
2013-7, passed 7-24-2013; Ord. 2014-3, passed 4-23-2014; Ord. 2014-9, passed 6-
25-2014; Ord. 2014-10, passed 6-25-2014; Ord. 2014-14, passed 9-10-2014; Ord.
2014-15, passed 9-10-2014; Ord. 2015-09, passed 1-13-2016; Ord. 2015-10, passed
1-13-2016; Ord. 2016-01, passed 1-27-2016; Ord. 2016-03, passed 3-23-2016; Ord.
2016-8, passed 5-25-2016; Ord. 2016-10, passed 7-13-2016; Ord. 2016-18, passed
1-11-2017; Ord. 2017-31, passed 8-9-2017; Ord. 2017-34, passed 9-13-2017; Ord.
2018-01, passed 1-24-2018; Ord. 2018-04, passed 2-28-2018; Ord. 2018-08, passed
5-9-2018; Ord. 2018-14, passed 8-8-2018; Ord. 2018-21, passed 9-26-2018)
§ 36.002 DETENTION CENTER EMPLOYEE POLICY AND PROCEDURE MANUAL.
   The County Detention Center Employee Policy and Procedure Manual, copies of
which are available in the office of the County Clerk, is adopted and
incorporated as part of this code of ordinances as fully as if set out at
length herein.
(Ord. 2004-8, passed 5-12-2004; Ord. 2007-28, passed 11-28-2007; Ord. 2008-3,
passed 2-27-2008; Ord. 2008-6, passed 3-12-2008; Ord. 2008-10, passed 5-14-
2008; Ord. 2009-4, passed 4-8-2009; Ord. 2009-9, passed 6-10-2009; Ord. 2009-
14, passed 8-26-2009; Ord. 2009-17, passed 9-23-2009; Ord. 2010-9, passed 4-28-
2010; Ord. 2010-10, passed 4-28-2010; Ord. 2010-21, passed 9-22-2010; Ord.
2011-16, passed 11-9-2011)
§ 36.003 PROTECTION OF PERSONAL INFORMATION.
   The Security and Incident Investigation Procedures and Practices for Local
Governmental Units, copies of which are available in the office of the County
Clerk, is adopted and incorporated as part of this code of ordinances as fully
as if set out at length herein.
(Ord. 2017-22, passed 4-10-2017)
OPEN MEETINGS
§ 36.015 COMPLIANCE WITH STATE’S OPEN MEETINGS ACT.
   (A)   A current list of county committees which constitute decision making
bodies that conduct meetings regarding the development of policies and
procedures related to county business is available in the office of the County
Clerk.
   (B)   The list includes the designated chairperson or presiding officer of
each committee. The list may be revised from time to time by the office of the
County Judge/Executive to incorporate and include new established committees.
   (C)   The list further reflects the regularly scheduled meeting for each
committee. The agenda for each regularly scheduled meeting shall be developed
by the chairperson of that committee and be available to the public or media no
later than five days prior to the regularly scheduled meeting. Discussion of
topics shall be limited to those listed in the agenda.
   (D)   In compliance with KRS 61.823, in situations that require emergency
meetings, the chairperson of the meeting of the committee shall ensure
compliance with the statute as it relates to notification to the media of the
date, time, place, and agenda of the special meeting and the notice shall be
provided to the media no later 24 hours prior to the scheduling of the meeting
except for those emergency meetings that qualify under KRS 61.823(5). In those
situations, compliance with that subsection shall be responsibility of the
chairperson.
   (E)   A copy of this section shall be provided to the Winchester Sun and to
any other media organization which files a written request pursuant to statute.
(Prior Code, § 26.100) (Ord. 2000-3, passed 2-23-2000)
MAINTENANCE OF STORM WATER DRAINAGE FACILITIES
§ 36.030 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to develop a coherent policy concerning
the required maintenance and upkeep for storm water drainage facilities located
within the county.
(Prior Code, § 26.200) (Ord. 96-24, passed - -1996)
§ 36.031 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   SURFACE WATER DRAINAGE FACILITY. Includes all natural and human-made
facilities, structures, and systems intended to convey, carry, or contain
surface water which shall include, but not be limited to: open ditches, drains,
creeks, retention basins, underground pipes, culverts, and headwalls.
(Prior Code, § 26.201) (Ord. 96-24, passed - -1996)
§ 36.032 MAINTENANCE.
   (A)   The county shall not be responsible for the maintenance, repair, or
replacement of any surface water drainage facility or any portion thereof,
except:
      (1)   When the system or portion thereof lies wholly within a county
maintained public road right-of-way, and:
         (a)   Was constructed by the county as a public project; or
         (b)   Was constructed with the written permission of the County Fiscal
Court to county specifications, dedicated to the county for public purposes and
formally accepted by the county for public use; provided, however, that
culverts or bridges over open surface water drains providing driveway or
walkway access to private property shall be the responsibility of the property
owner.
      (2)   When the system or portion is enclosed in a pipeline or culvert
location upon private property, and:
         (a)   Was constructed by the county as a public project; or
         (b)   Was constructed to county specifications upon easements granted
to the county for that purpose, and was dedicated to the county for a public
purpose and formally accepted into the county for public use.
   (B)   Prior to the county repairing, maintaining, or replacing any surface
water drainage facility, proof must be shown that the facility was constructed
by the county, dedicated to the county, and/or accepted by the county for
maintenance purposes. The owner must grant the county a construction easement
and/or an indemnification releasing and holding the county harmless from all
claims arising out of the design, construction, use, existence, and future
maintenance of the facility. The construction easement shall specify that the
county will have no ongoing maintenance responsibility for the improvement
constructed.
(Prior Code, § 26.202) (Ord. 96-24, passed - -1996)
§ 36.033 COST SHARING ON PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   The county may, on a shared cost basis with the owners, undertake the
construction of a facility or the repair or reconstruction of an existing
facility located on privately owned property, only if:
   (A)   The county determines that a public purpose will be served by such
construction or repair; and
   (B)   The owner must grant to the county a construction easement and a
release of indemnification releasing and holding the county harmless from all
claims arising out of the design, construction, use, existence, and future
maintenance of the facility. The construction easement shall specify that the
county will have no ongoing maintenance responsibility for the improvement
constructed.
(Prior Code, § 26.203) (Ord. 96-24, passed - -1996)
§ 36.034 OPEN SURFACE WATER DRAINS.
   Open facilities such as, but not limited to, ditches, creeks, and other
waterways, located on private property shall not be publicly maintained.
Maintenance of such drains shall be the sole responsibility of the owners of
the land upon which they are located; provided, however, that if the county
finds a sufficient public purpose, work on such drains may be undertaken as
provided herein. Open swales, located in the public rights-of-way shall be the
maintenance responsibility of the private property owner and the property owner
may not alter or enclose the open swales without permission from the county.
(Prior Code, § 26.204) (Ord. 96-24, passed - -1996)
§ 36.035 ACCEPTANCE.
   Prior to final acceptance by the Fiscal Court for maintenance purposes of a
facility, the Fiscal Court may cause the facility to be inspected by a
registered professional civil engineer to determine if the facility conforms to
county specifications. The party who initiates the request for acceptance shall
pay all the costs of the certification and acceptance.
(Prior Code, § 26.205) (Ord. 96-24, passed - -1996)
§ 36.036 BLOCKAGE OF SURFACE WATER DRAINAGE.
   It shall be a public nuisance to stop, impede, or permit any stoppage or
impediment in the flow of water through any facility or to divert the flow of
natural drainage through natural drains, whether through open drainage ditches
or enclosed drains. Examples of such nuisances shall include, but not be
limited to, unauthorized modification, blockage, erosion, and dumping yard
waste or grass clippings into the facility. It shall be the responsibility of
all property owners in the county to keep the facilities on or passing through
their property open and in proper operation to prevent stoppage or interference
with proper flow.
(Prior Code, § 26.206) (Ord. 96-24, passed - -1996) Penalty, see §
36.999
§ 36.037 ENCLOSURE/ALTERATION OF ANY NATURAL OR HUMAN-MADE SEWERS OR DRAINS.
   No person may enclose or in any way alter or construct any improvement on or
over any facility without the express written permission of the Fiscal Court,
which shall require certification of design from a registered professional
civil engineer prior to approval that the design is sufficient to provide
drainage for the entire upstream watershed when fully developed. The party
requesting the change must pay all costs associated with the certification.
(Prior Code, § 26.207) (Ord. 96-24, passed - -1996) Penalty, see §
36.999
§ 36.038 RETENTION BASINS.
   Maintenance of retention basins shall be the responsibility of the developer
or the owners of the property on which the retention basin is located. The
basin may not be altered in any fashion from the plan approved by the public
agency or public official which originally required the basin without the
public agency’s or public official’s express permission.
(Prior Code, § 26.208) (Ord. 96-24, passed - -1996) Penalty, see §
36.999
§ 36.039 ENFORCEMENT.
   Violations of this subchapter shall be deemed to be a public nuisance and
enforcement shall occur pursuant to the state statutes.
(Prior Code, § 26.209) (Ord. 96-24, passed - -1996)
§ 36.040 APPEALS.
   Any person affected by decision or notice to correct or abate a violation of
this subchapter shall have the right to appeal to the County Fiscal Court,
provided that a written application for appeal is filed with the County
District Court, within 20 days of the notice.
(Prior Code, § 26.210) (Ord. 96-24, passed - -1996)
DRUG AND ALCOHOL POLICY
§ 36.055 SHORT TITLE.
   The current County Substance Abuse Policy and Guidelines Manual is replaced
in its entirety by a new manual referred to as the “Clark County Fiscal Court
Drug/Alcohol Substance Abuse Policy Manual”.
(Ord. 2015-8, passed 11-11-2015)
§ 36.056 ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The new County Fiscal Court Drug/Alcohol Substance Abuse Policy Manual is
hereby incorporated by reference herein and is adopted as presented.
(Ord. 2015-8, passed 11-11-2015)
§ 36.057 APPLICATION; MODIFICATION.
   The new County Fiscal Court Drug/Alcohol Substance Abuse Policy Manual shall
remain in full force and effect as presented until such time as it is changed,
modified, altered, and/or amended by further ordinances of the County Fiscal
Court.
(Ord. 2015-8, passed 11-11-2015)
GRIEVANCE PROCEDURES FOR COMPLAINTS RELATING TO DISCRIMINATION BASED ON
DISABILITY STATUS
§ 36.070 PURPOSE.
   (A)   Any person who believes he or she has been subjected to discrimination
as prohibited by § 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, being 29 U.S.C. §§
701 et seq. may personally, or by a representative, file a complaint with the
office of the County Judge/Executive.
   (B)   A person who has not personally been subject to discrimination may
also file a complaint when any person believes he or she has been adversely
affected by an act or decision of the County Fiscal Court and that such act or
decision was based on disability status, and shall have the right to process a
complaint or grievance in accordance with the procedures set forth in §
36.071.
(Prior Code, § 26.500) (Ord. 2000-15, passed 9-13-2000)
§ 36.071 GRIEVANCE PROCEDURES IMPLEMENTED.
   (A)   Step one. An aggrieved person must submit a written statement to the
Judge/Executive setting forth the nature of the discrimination alleged and
facts upon which the allegation is based. If an individual requires assistance
in preparing a written statement, he or she may contact the county’s Section
504/ADA Coordinator (Judge/Executive) at (859) 745-0200 or TDD at (800) 648-
6056.
   (B)   Step two.
      (1)   The Judge/Executive shall contact the complainant no later than 15
days after receiving the written statement to establish an informal meeting
with the objective of resolving the matter informally. However, in no case
shall the informal meeting be conducted sooner than five days, and not more
than 45 days after receiving the statement.
      (2)   There shall be prepared a written documentary of the discussions at
the informal meeting, which shall be preserved in the records of the County
Fiscal Court.
   (C)   Step three. Within 15 days of the informal meeting, if no decision has
been made by the Judge/Executive or the decision of the Judge/Executive does
not satisfy the complainant, he or she may request a hearing with the County
Fiscal Court by submitting a written request to the County Clerk.
   (D)   Step four.
      (1)   In discussing the grievance, the complainant may designate any
person of his or her choice to appear with him or her and participate in the
discussion. The County Fiscal Court shall require the Judge/Executive to
participate in the discussion of the grievance, when it is brought before the
Fiscal Court. The Fiscal Court shall issue a written decision on the matter
within 15 days, and the decision shall be the final procedure for the
complainant at the local level.
      (2)   There shall be prepared a written documentary of the discussions at
the informal meeting, which shall be preserved in the records of the County
Fiscal Court.
(Prior Code, § 26.501) (Ord. 2000-15, passed 9-13-2000)
GENERAL POLICIES
§ 36.085 ADDRESSING SYSTEM FOR 911 EMERGENCY RESPONSE SYSTEM.
   The Winchester-Clark County Planning Commission, with assistance from the
Winchester-Clark County 911 Addressing Committee on existing roadways, shall
solely be authorized to assign or cause to be assigned a property number, site
number, and/or a building number where appropriate so as to ensure no
duplication of numbers or street names. The Winchester-Clark County Planning
Commission, City Clerk, and County Clerk shall maintain a street index file
containing the official list of valid street names.
(Ord. 2008-9, passed 4-16-2008)
§ 36.086 NUMBERING AND NAMING PROPERTIES.
   (A)   Numbering property, buildings, and display of numbers. All principal
buildings and leaseable/salable portions of said buildings which have separate
and direct outside entrances shall have the site number permanently and
prominently displayed, at the expense of the owners or occupants thereof, so as
to be clearly visible and identifiable at all times during daylight hours to
persons in vehicles traveling in both directions of the street upon which the
structure is located. Structures that have access and outside entrances via
alternate roads, alleyways, or other access drives shall have the site number
permanently and prominently displayed at the alternative outside entrance as
well.
   (B)   Renumbering and renaming.
      (1)   With respect to properties located within the county, including the
corporate limits if Winchester, Kentucky, the Winchester Clark County 911
Addressing Committee shall make the final decision with regard to renumbering
properties.
      (2)   With respect to properties located within the corporate limits of
Winchester, Kentucky, the Board of Commissioners shall make the final decision
with regard to renaming streets. The County Fiscal Court shall have sole
authority to rename streets in the unincorporated areas of the county. Whenever
it is necessary and advisable to rename streets, the Winchester-Clark County
911 Addressing Committee staff shall forward said recommendation to the Board
of Commissioners of Fiscal Court for review and consideration.
      (3)   Northing in this section shall prohibit either the Board of
Commissioners of the Fiscal Court from renumbering properties or naming/
renaming streets should either body deem it in the public interest to do so,
independent.
(Ord. 2011-20, passed 1-11-2012)
§ 36.087 NO SMOKING IN GOVERNMENT BUILDINGS.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      BUILDING. All space between a floor and a ceiling that is bordered on
four sides by doors, walls, or windows, whether open or closed, the combination
of which extend from the floor to the ceiling. A wall includes any physical
barrier, whether temporary or permanent, solid or permeable.
      CITIZEN. Any person other than an employee.
      EMPLOYEE. A person who works in consideration for wages or profit, or who
volunteers his or her services for the County Fiscal Court.
      PLACE OF EMPLOYMENT. An area under the control of the County Fiscal Court
that the employee is present during the course of employment, including, but
not limited to, work areas, employee lounges, restrooms, conference rooms,
meeting rooms, classrooms, employee cafeteria, hallways, and work vehicles.
      SMOKING. Inhaling, exhaling, burning, or carrying any lighted or heated
cigar, cigarette, pipe, or other combustible tobacco product.
   (B)   Application. This section shall apply to all buildings owned by the
County Fiscal Court or titled in the name of the county.
   (C)   Prohibition of smoking.
      (1)   Smoking shall be prohibited in all enclosed the county government
buildings, including, but not limited to the following places: County
Courthouse; James Clark Judicial Annex; County Detention Center; all office
space of the County Road Department; all office space of the County Animal
Shelter; and all office and living space of the County Fire Department and all
its affiliated stations.
      (2)   Smoking is expressly not prohibited in breeze ways, garages, bays,
or other open areas on property owned by the County Fiscal Court or titled in
the name of the county.
   (D)   Reasonable distance. Smoking is prohibited within a minimum distance
of ten feet from the outside entrance to or open window of any area in which
smoking is prohibited by this section and from the air intake of a ventilation
system serving an enclosed area where smoking is prohibited, in order to ensure
tobacco smoke does not enter that enclosed area through entrances, windows,
ventilation systems or other means.
   (E)   Posting of signs.
      (1)   “No Smoking” signs or the international “No Smoking” symbol
(consisting of a pictorial representation of a burning cigarette enclosed in a
red circle with a red bar across it) shall be clearly and conspicuously posted
in every building and facility owned by the County Fiscal Court and public area
and place of employment where smoking is prohibited by this section.
      (2)   A conspicuous sign clearly stating that smoking is prohibited shall
be posted at each entrance utilized by the public entering and exiting said
buildings and facilities within which smoking is prohibited by this section. A
conspicuous sign clearly stating that smoking is prohibited shall be posted at
each entrance utilized by employees entering and exiting places of employment
within which smoking is prohibited by this section.
      (3)   All ashtrays shall be removed from areas within government
buildings to which this section applies.
   (F)   Enforcement.
      (1)   Enforcement of this section will be the responsibility of any and
all sworn law enforcement officers who may work within Winchester or the
county. Enforcement may be done on a complaint basis but can be done at any
time witnessed by a law enforcement official.
      (2)   Any citizen who desires to register a complaint under this section
may initiate enforcement with law enforcement or by filing a complaint with the
County Attorney’s office.
   (G)   Exception. This section shall not be interpreted or construed to
permit smoking where it is otherwise restricted by other applicable laws
(Ord. 2009-11, passed 7-8-2009) Penalty, see §
36.999
§ 36.088 ELECTIONEERING PROHIBITED NEAR POLLING LOCATIONS.
   (A)   (1)   To fulfill the government’s obligation to protect the voter and
the integrity of the election process from actual or attempted fraud; from
obstruction; from intimidation, real or inferred; from attempted or actual vote
buying; from invasion of privacy; from harassment, real, threatened, or
implied; from hindrance or delay all done under the disguise of electioneering,
an electioneering free zone is established within 300 feet of the entrance to
any building containing a polling place on any election day. No person shall,
on the day of any election as established in KRS 118.025, do any electioneering
at the polling place or within a distance of 300 feet of the main entrance of a
building used by voters in which a voting machine is located on election day.
No person shall, on the day of any election as established in KRS 118.025,
intentionally invade the right of privacy of any person on his or her way to
vote. No person shall loiter, or congregate in, or hinder or delay a voter, or
solicit, or attempt to solicit, or attempt to influence any voter in casting
his or her vote within this 300-foot campaign free zone.
      (2)   ELECTIONEERING shall include the display of signs, the distribution
of campaign literature, cards, or handbills, the soliciting of signatures to
any petition, or the solicitation of votes for or against any political party,
candidate, or question on the ballot in any manner. Nothing contained in this
section shall prohibit electioneering conducted within the interior of a
private residence or business establishment by persons having a leased or
ownership interest in such property, within the campaign free zone, provided
that all electioneering activities are confined to the interior of the
buildings and cannot be heard or observed by any voters going to the polling
place. Nothing in this section shall prohibit the displaying of political signs
on private property or private establishment by a person having a leased or
ownership interest in that private property or private establishment within the
campaign free zone, regardless of the distance from the polling place provided
that the sign in not accompanied by a person and does not emit any sound and is
not audio-visual or mechanical and no larger than four square feet in size.
   (B)   Any precinct election officer, county clerk, deputy county clerk, or
any law enforcement official may enforce this section at the polls within 300
feet of the main entrance to the building used by voters in which the voting
machine is located. Assistance may be requested of any law enforcement officer.
   (C)   Any property used for a polling location on election day shall not be
considered a public place in any manner for public discourse. The grounds,
buildings, sidewalks, and parking lots at all polling locations are designated
non-public forums for the election day.
(Ord. 2004-15, passed 8-11-2004) Penalty, see §
36.999
 
§ 36.089 COURT COSTS.
   (A)    In addition to those fees and costs already imposed by law, the
following fees and costs shall be assessed and hereafter delivered to the
County Treasurer in civil and criminal cases in County Circuit and District
Courts:
      (1)   A fee of $25 is added to the filing fees in civil cases in Circuit
Court;
      (2)   A cost $25 is added to the court costs in criminal cases in Circuit
Court;
      (3)   A fee of $25 is added to the filing fees in civil cases appealed
from Circuit Court to the Court of Appeals;
      (4)   In all traffic cases, a fee of $10 shall be added to the court
costs;
      (5)   In misdemeanor cases, a cost of $20 shall be added to the court
costs;
      (6)   In District Court civil cases, a fee of $10 shall be added to all
filing fees, excluding probate and small claim cases.
   (B)   In addition to those charges already allowed by law, fees for the
service of a subpoena and for the service of a civil summons collected by the
Sheriff shall be charged, as follows:
      (1)   For the service of a subpoena, a fee of $10 shall be added to the
service charge;
      (2)   For the service of a civil summons, a fee of $10 shall be added to
the service charge.
   (C)   All funds collected as additional fees and/or costs pursuant to this
section shall be expended for the purpose of paying for expenses for
courthouses, bonds related to them, and administration expenses of the County
District and Circuit Courts, pursuant to the authority of KRS 23A.220, 24.185,
and 64.091.
(Ord. 2012-3, passed 2-22-2012; Ord. 2019-05, passed 7-10-2019)
§ 36.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   (1)   Any person who smokes in an area where smoking is prohibited by
the provisions of §
36.087 shall be guilty of a violation, punishable by:
         (a)   A fine not exceeding $100 for a first violation;
         (b)   A fine not exceeding $250 for a second violation within one year
from a previous offense date; and
         (c)   A fine not exceeding $500 for a third violation and each
additional violation within one year from a previous offense date.
      (2)   Violation of §
36.087 is declared to be a public nuisance, which may be abated by the County
Fiscal Court, or its designated agents, by restraining order, preliminary and
permanent injunction, or other means provided for by law. The County Fiscal
Court, or its designated agents may recover the reasonable cost of any court
enforcement action seeking abatement of this nuisance.
      (3)   Each day on which a violation of §
36.087 occurs shall be considered a separate and distinct violation. Multiple
violations witnessed in a single observance shall also be considered separate
and distinct violations.
   (C)   Any person who violates any provision of §
36.088 after he or she has been duly notified of such provisions by the sheriff
of the election precinct shall, for each offense, be fined not more than $500
or be imprisoned for a term not to exceed 12 months, or both so fined and so
imprisoned.
(Ord. 2004-15, passed 8-11-2004; Ord. 2009-11, passed 7-8-2009)
CHAPTER 37: AFFIRMATIVE ACTION
Section
Opportunities for Training and Employment
   
37.01   Purpose
   
37.02   Affirmative action steps
Employment Practices
   
37.15   Statement of policy
   
37.16   Dissemination of policy
   
37.17   Personnel actions
   
37.18   Workforce utilization; goals and timetables
   
37.19   Responsibility for implementation
   
37.20   Evaluation and reports
   
37.21   Implementation plan for Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964
adopted by reference
OPPORTUNITIES FOR TRAINING AND EMPLOYMENT
§ 37.01 PURPOSE.
   The Fiscal Court hereby implements the specific affirmative action steps
provided in §
37.02 which are directed at increasing opportunities for training and
employment for lower income residents of the county, and increasing the
utilization of business concerns located within the Section 3 area residents.
(Prior Code, § 26.300) (Ord. 2000-16, passed 9-13-2000)
§ 37.02 AFFIRMATIVE ACTION STEPS.
   Affirmative action steps include the following:
   (A)   To identify projected workforce needs for all phases of the program by
occupation, trade, skill level, and number of positions, and to develop
utilization goals for the employment of lower income project area residents for
each;
   (B)   To attempt to recruit from within the county the requisite number of
project area residents through local advertising media, posted signs and
community organizations, and public and private institutions operating within
or serving the project area;
   (C)   To identify eligible business concerns for Community Development Block
Grant (CDBG) assisted contracts through the Chamber of Commerce, Community
Services, Vision 2000, local advertising media including public signage;
project area committees, citizen advisory boards; lists available through CDBG
program officials; regional planning agencies; and all other appropriate
referral sources;
   (D)   To maintain a list of eligible business concerns for utilization in
CDBG funded procurements, to ensure that all appropriate project area business
concerns are notified of pending contractual opportunities, and to make
available this list for general county procurement needs;
   (E)   To require bidders on contracts to submit a written Section 3 plan
including utilization goals and the specific steps planned to accomplish these
goals;
   (F)   To insure that contracts which are typically let on a negotiated
rather than a bid basis in areas other than Section 3 covered project areas are
also let on a negotiated basis, whenever feasible, when let in a Section 3
covered project area;
   (G)   To maintain records, including copies of correspondence, memoranda,
and the like, which document that all of the above affirmative actions steps
have been taken; and
   (H)   To appoint or recruit an executive official of the county as Equal
Opportunity Officer to coordinate the implementation of this Section 3 plan.
(Prior Code, § 26.301) (Ord. 2000-16, passed 9-13-2000)
EMPLOYMENT PRACTICES
§ 37.15 STATEMENT OF POLICY.
   The affirmative action policy of the county is to promote equal employment
opportunity; to prohibit discrimination in employment on account of race,
color, religion, national origin, sex, age, or disability status; and to bring
about a fair representation and utilization of females and minorities on all
levels of county employment.
(Prior Code, § 26.350) (Ord. 2000-17, passed 9-13-2000)
§ 37.16 DISSEMINATION OF POLICY.
   The county will advise all employees and applicants for employment of this
policy and will post it in a conspicuous place. The county will make known to
the public that employment opportunities are available on the basis of
individual ability and will encourage all persons who are employed by the
county to strive for advancement on that basis.
(Prior Code, § 26.351) (Ord. 2000-17, passed 9-13-2000)
§ 37.17 PERSONNEL ACTIONS.
   The county will actively recruit qualified or qualifiable persons among
females and minorities on a nondiscriminatory basis for all available job
openings at every level; and the county will ensure every employee equal
treatment in respect to terms and conditions of employment, job assignments,
compensation, access to training, and promotions.
(Prior Code, § 26.352) (Ord. 2000-17, passed 9-13-2000)
§ 37.18 WORKFORCE UTILIZATION; GOALS AND TIMETABLES.
   The county will analyze the utilization of females and minorities in its
workforce and compare it with the utilization by all employees in the county
according to the latest official census. The goal of the county is to bring
about comparable utilization in all categories within the next five years.
(Prior Code, § 26.353) (Ord. 2000-17, passed 9-13-2000)
§ 37.19 RESPONSIBILITY FOR IMPLEMENTATION.
   The Judge/Executive shall be responsible for implementation of this
Affirmative Action Plan, including maintenance of the Workforce Analysis and
Job Roster and hearing complaints of discrimination by any employees or
prospective employees of the county, with a final appeal to the County Fiscal
Court.
(Prior Code, § 26.354) (Ord. 2000-17, passed 9-13-2000)
§ 37.20 EVALUATION AND REPORTS.
   The Judge/Executive shall periodically examine the operation of the
Affirmative Action Plan and shall report the progress being made, together with
recommendations for improvements in the plan, to the Fiscal Court at least once
every year.
(Prior Code, § 26.355) (Ord. 2000-17, passed 9-13-2000)
§ 37.21 IMPLEMENTATION PLAN FOR TITLE VI OF THE CIVIL RIGHTS ACT OF 1964
ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The Fiscal Court names the Judge/Executive the “responsible official” for
administering compliance of Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 being 42
U.S.C. §§ 2000d et seq., and the state’s Department for Local Government, Title
VI Implementation Plan, as revised June 2000, is hereby adopted by reference as
the Title VI Implementation Plan of Clark County. A copy shall be maintained at
the office of the Judge/Executive.
(Prior Code, § 26.356) (Ord. 2000-21, passed - - )
CHAPTER 38: TAXATION
Section
Ad Valorem Taxation
   
38.01   Adoption of tax assessments
   
38.02   Date due; discount
Transient Room Tax
   
38.15   Imposition of tax
   
38.16   Tax due; exceptions
   
38.17   Delinquency
Financial Institution Franchise and Local Deposit Tax
   
38.30   Definitions
   
38.31   Imposition of tax
   
38.32   Rate of franchise tax
   
38.33   Administration
   
38.34   Due date; delinquency
   
38.35   Lien
   
38.36   Records
 
   
38.99   Penalty
AD VALOREM TAXATION
§ 38.01 ADOPTION OF TAX ASSESSMENTS.
   The county adopts the equalized assessments by the Department for Local
Government on the different classes of property and the total property
assessment pursuant to and hereby levies ad valorem taxes on all real property,
personal property, motor vehicles, and bank shares within the county, as well
as tax rates of the Winchester-Clark County Library Board and County Health
Department.
(Prior Code, § 27.001) (Ord. 93-7, passed 9-8-1993)
§ 38.02 DATE DUE; DISCOUNT.
   The taxpayers shall be granted a 2% discount on all tax bills resulting from
the levies herein imposed that are paid on or before November 1. Those bills
which are not paid on or before December 31, shall be subject to the penalties
prescribed by §
38.99.
(Prior Code, § 27.002) (Ord. 93-7, passed 9-8-1993; Ord. 94-10, passed 11-9-
1994; Ord. 95-16, passed 9-28-1995; Ord. 96-13, passed 9-26-1996; Ord. 98-7,
passed 8-27-1998)
TRANSIENT ROOM TAX
§ 38.15 IMPOSITION OF TAX.
   For the purpose of the operation of the Winchester-Clark County
Recreational, Tourist, and Convention Commission, and to finance the cost of
acquisition, construction, operation, and maintenance of facilities useful in
the attraction and promotion of tourist and convention business, there is
hereby imposed and levied a transient room tax of 3%.
(Prior Code, § 27.100) (Ord. 92-9, passed 8-12-1992)
§ 38.16 TAX DUE; EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   Every person, group, or association doing business as a motor court,
motel, hotel, inn, or like or similar accommodation in the city and county
shall pay monthly into the city treasury for periods ending on the last day of
each month, the transient room tax of 3% of the gross rent for each occupancy
of each suite or room charged and collected during such monthly periods.
   (B)   The tax shall be due and payable on or before the last day of the
month next following the last day of each such monthly period, together with a
return on a form furnished by or obtained from the City Treasurer setting forth
an aggregate amount of gross rentals charged and collected during the preceding
month for every occupancy to which the transient room tax applies, together
with such other pertinent information as the City Treasurer may require.
   (C)   The tax imposed by this section shall not apply to rentals paid on
occupancies of 90 consecutive days or longer.
   (D)   The tax imposed by this section shall be in addition to other general
taxes and the occupational or business license tax.
(Prior Code, § 27.101) (Ord. 92-9, passed 8-12-1992; Ord. 2001-1, passed 1-24-
2001)
§ 38.17 DELINQUENCY.
   Any tax imposed pursuant to the provisions of §
38.16 which shall remain unpaid after it becomes due shall be subject to the
penalties set forth in §
38.99.
(Prior Code, § 27.102) (Ord. 92-9, passed 8-12-1992)
FINANCIAL INSTITUTION FRANCHISE AND LOCAL DEPOSIT TAX
§ 38.30 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DEPOSITS. All demand and time deposits, excluding deposits of the United
States government, state and political subdivisions, other financial
institutions, public libraries, educational institutions, religious
institutions, charitable institutions, and certified and officers’ checks.
   FINANCIAL INSTITUTION.
      (1)   A national bank organized and existing as a national bank
association pursuant to the provisions of the National Bank Act, 12 U.S.C. §§
21 et seq., in effect on December 31, 1995, exclusive of any amendments made
subsequent to that date, or a national bank organized after December 31, 1995,
that meets the requirements of the National Bank Act in effect on December 31,
1995;
      (2)   Any bank or trust company incorporated or organized under the laws
of any state, except a banker’s bank organized under KRS 286.3-135;
      (3)   Any corporation organized under the provisions of 12 U.S.C. §§ 611
to 631, in effect on December 31, 1995, exclusive of any amendments made
subsequent to that date, or any corporation organized after December 31, 1995,
that meets the requirements of 12 U.S.C. §§ 611 to 631, in effect on December
31, 1995; or
      (4)   Any agency or branch of a foreign depository as defined in 12
U.S.C. § 3101, in effect on December 31, 1995, exclusive of any amendments made
subsequent to that date, or any agency or branch of a foreign depository
established after December 31, 1995, that meets the requirements of 12 U.S.C. §
3101, in effect on December 31, 1995.
(Prior Code, § 27.200) (Ord. 96-22, passed 12-17-1996)
§ 38.31 IMPOSITION OF TAX.
   Pursuant to KRS Chapter 136, there is hereby imposed on each financial
institution, as defined in §
38.30, located within the jurisdiction of the county, a franchise tax measured
by the deposits in such institutions. All monies collected pursuant to these
sections shall be paid into the General Fund of the county to be used for the
payment of proper expenditures as determined by the Fiscal Court.
(Prior Code, § 27.201) (Ord. 96-22, passed 12-17-1996)
§ 38.32 RATE OF FRANCHISE TAX.
   (A)   The rate of the franchise tax imposed on financial institutions shall
be twenty-five thousandths of one percent (0.00025%) of the deposits located in
the jurisdiction of the county.
   (B)   The amount and location of deposits in the financial institutions
shall be determined by the method used for filing the summary of deposits
report with the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation.
   (C)   The accounting method used to allocate deposits for completion of the
summary of deposits shall be the same as had been utilized in prior periods.
(Prior Code, § 27.202) (Ord. 96-22, passed 12-17-1996)
§ 38.33 ADMINISTRATION.
   (A)   The state’s Revenue Cabinet shall certify to the local jurisdiction
the amount of deposits within the jurisdiction and amount of the tax due.
   (B)   The county shall issue bills to the financial institution by December
1 of each year.
   (C)   In the transition year of 1996, the tax bills shall be issued to
financial institutions no later than May 1, 1997.
(Prior Code, § 27.203) (Ord. 96-22, passed 12-17-1996)
§ 38.34 DUE DATE; DELINQUENCY.
   (A)   The tax bill shall be due January 31 of the next year after it has
been issued; thereafter, the bill shall be delinquent and subject to the
penalty set forth in §
38.99.
   (B)   The financial institution shall be allowed a 2% discount if the tax
bill is paid by December 31 of the same year as the tax bill is issued.
   (C)   The 2% discount shall be allowed on bills paid by May 31, 1997, for
the transitional year. All other bills during this year shall be due June 1,
1997; thereafter, the bill shall be delinquent and subject to the penalty set
forth in §
38.99.
(Prior Code, § 27.204) (Ord. 96-22, passed 12-17-1996)
§ 38.35 LIEN.
   The county shall have a lien for taxes upon any and all property subject to
the tax imposed by this subchapter, which lien shall be superior to all
encumbrances prior or subsequent.
(Prior Code, § 27.205) (Ord. 96-22, passed 12-17-1996)
§ 38.36 RECORDS.
   It shall be the duty of the Sheriff to collect and account for the franchise
taxes imposed by this subchapter. The Sheriff shall keep records of the amount
received from each financial institution and the date of receipt. The Revenue
Cabinet shall be notified of the tax rate imposed upon adoption of this
subchapter and of any subsequent rate changes.
(Prior Code, § 27.206) (Ord. 96-22, passed 12-17-1996)
§ 38.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any tax bill that is not paid when due, pursuant to the provisions of
§
38.02, shall bear interest and shall incur penalties as provided by state
statutes.
   (C)   (1)   Any person who shall knowingly file a false or fraudulent return
required by §
38.16 shall, upon conviction, be fined not more than $100 or imprisoned for not
more than 30 days, or both such fine and imprisonment.
      (2)   Any tax which shall remain unpaid after it becomes due, pursuant to
the provisions of §
38.17, shall have added to it a penalty of 10%, together with interest at the
rate of 0.5% for each month of delinquency, or fraction thereof, until paid.
   (D)   Any tax bill not paid pursuant to the provisions of §
38.34 shall be delinquent and subject to a penalty of 2% and interest of 12%
per annum.
(Prior Code, § 27.999) (Ord. 92-9, passed 8-11-1992; Ord. 93-7, passed 9-8-
1993; Ord. 94-10, passed 11-9-1994; Ord. 95-16, passed 9-28-1995; Ord. 96-13,
passed 9-26-1996; Ord. 96-22, passed 12-17-1996)
CHAPTER 39: EMERGENCY TELEPHONE SERVICE
Section
General Provisions
   
39.01   Established
   
39.02   Definitions
   
39.03   Agreement
   
39.04   911 fee
911 Advisory Board
   
39.15   Established; composition; appointment
   
39.16   Meetings
   
39.17   Duties
Property Addresses
   
39.30   Numbering property and buildings; display of numbers
   
39.31   Addressing
   
39.32   Renumbering; renaming
   
39.33   Maintenance of number display; defacement; non-compliance
 
   
39.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Government Organization, see
Ch. 30
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 39.01 ESTABLISHED.
   There is hereby established a safety answering service to provide a single
telephone number for emergency services within the local area, which service
shall be known as “911”.
(Prior Code, § 28.001) (Ord. 89-3, passed 4-26-1989)
§ 39.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   LOCAL AREA. The City of Winchester and Clark County, Kentucky.
   PHONE COMPANY. South Central Bell Telephone Company, a Georgia corporation.
This shall include all providers of local phone service.
(Prior Code, § 28.002) (Ord. 89-3, passed 4-26-1989; Ord. 2000-18, passed 11-
22-2000)
§ 39.03 AGREEMENT.
   (A)   The county, by and through the County Judge/Executive, is authorized
to enter into an agreement with the phone company to provide for the
construction, implementation, and ongoing maintenance of 911 within the local
area. The agreement shall be for a period of one year after its execution and
shall be automatically renewable upon the same terms and conditions unless,
prior to 30 days of the close of the 12-month period, either party notifies the
other of its intention to modify and/or terminate the agreement.
   (B)   The agreement shall reflect the installation costs and the current
tariffed recurring charges for enhanced 911 service charged during the contract
period.
(Prior Code, § 28.003) (Ord. 89-3, passed 4-26-1989)
§ 39.04 911 FEE.
   (A)   There is hereby established a 911 fee of $3 per month for each
exchange telephone subscriber which is levied as a special tax, license, and/or
fee to be paid by each exchange telephone subscriber in the local area on an
individual exchange line basis limited to a maximum of 25 exchange lines per
account, by June 1, 2008, and each month thereafter. Phone company shall
collect the 911 fee from the subscriber and remit said fee to the county
according to the terms of the agreement.
   (B)   The County Judge/Executive be and is hereby authorized and directed to
execute any and all documents and contracts that may be necessary for the
implementation of the enhanced 911 telephone service and the increased rate of
$3 per month for each exchange telephone subscriber.
   (C)   There is established, imposed and implemented a monthly service fee,
as set forth herein above, on active water meters provided to occupied
households and businesses in Clark County, Kentucky, calculated at $3 per month
per active residential and commercial water meters.
   (D)   Every water company, water association or other entity operating a
water distribution system in Clark County, Kentucky shall collect the herein
established service fee and remit amounts so collected, on not less than a
quarterly basis, to the Clark County Fiscal Court for deposit to the 911 fund
and shall be permitted to withhold 3% of these monies for the administration of
this service fee.
   (E)   Each utility or entity designated herein as a collector of such fees
shall take all necessary action for such collection prior to January 1, 2025
and begin collections on January 1, 2025.
(Prior Code, § 28.004) (Ord. 89-3, passed 4-26-1989; Ord. 95-15, passed 8-24-
1995; Ord. 2008-13, passed 5-28-2008; Ord. 2024-12, passed 10-24-2024)
911 ADVISORY BOARD
§ 39.15 ESTABLISHED; COMPOSITION; APPOINTMENT.
   (A)   There is hereby established the County 911 Advisory Board, which shall
be comprised of the following individuals:
      (1)   County representative appointed by the County Judge/Executive;
      (2)   City representative appointed by the Mayor of the City of
Winchester;
      (3)   County Sheriff;
      (4)   Winchester Police Chief;
      (5)   Representative from the State Police;
      (6)   Representative from the County Hospital;
      (7)   Representative from the Winchester-Clark County Ambulance Service;
      (8)   County Fire Chief;
      (9)   Winchester Fire Chief; and
      (10)   A citizen knowledgeable of communication systems appointed by the
County Judge/Executive.
   (B)   Appointed representatives serve at the pleasure of the appointing
authority.
(Prior Code, § 28.100) (Ord. 89-3, passed 4-26-1989)
§ 39.16 MEETINGS.
   The Board shall meet quarterly and the Chairperson may call special meetings
upon written notice delivered to the members at least seven days prior to any
special meeting.
(Prior Code, § 28.101) (Ord. 89-3, passed 4-26-1989)
§ 39.17 DUTIES.
   The Board shall continuously monitor the procedures established for the
operation of the 911 system and make recommendations to the County Fiscal Court
for effective implementation of the emergency telephone system.
(Prior Code, § 28.102) (Ord. 89-3, passed 4-26-1989)
PROPERTY ADDRESSES
§ 39.30 NUMBERING PROPERTY AND BUILDINGS; DISPLAY OF NUMBERS.
   (A)   All properties within the county shall be numbered for the purposes of
public safety, taxation, and provision of services.
   (B)   All principal buildings and leasable/salable portions of the buildings
which have separate and direct outside entrances shall have the site number
permanently and prominently displayed, at the expense of the owners or
occupants thereof, so as to be clearly visible and identifiable at all times
during daylight hours to persons in vehicles traveling in both directions of
the street upon which the structure is located.
   (C)   The property number shall be a minimum of three inches in height and
shall be affixed to the structure at a point at least three feet above ground
level. If the structure is not visible from the public or private right-of-way
upon which the structure is located, the site number may also be displayed in
such a manner that satisfies the visibility requirements in division (B) above.
Notwithstanding the above, where more than one principal building is located
upon a property and where the site number is clearly displayed at the street
entrance to the property, each principal building shall not be required to
display the site number so long as each building is clearly identified by a
building number or letter.
   (D)   Structures with multiple units shall have each major doorway labeled
with a range of numbers, letters, or other authorized unit designations when
the doorway leads to more than one leasable/salable unit of a building. The
designations shall be used to distinguish individual suites, units, rooms, or
apartments within the same building or structure and served by single door. No
more than five characters may be used in the unit designations. The
designations shall contain only letters or numbers. If abbreviations are used,
they must follow the United States Postal Service’s Standards for Secondary
Address Unit Designators.
   (E)   The Winchester-Clark County Planning Commission, with assistance from
the United States Postal Service pertaining to existing roadways, shall solely
be authorized to assign or cause to be assigned a property number, site number,
and/or a building number where appropriate so as to ensure no duplication of
numbers or street names. The Winchester-Clark County Planning Commission, City
Clerk, and County Clerk shall maintain a street index file containing the
official list of valid street names.
   (F)   No private access easement shall be named without the prior approval
of the Winchester-Clark County Planning Commission. All private access
easements that are named with the approval of the Winchester-Clark County
Planning Commission shall have a regulation street sign, purchased and erected
at the expense of the owners, placed at each intersection of the named easement
and any other named easement or street.
(Prior Code, § 28.200) (Ord. 96-5, passed 2-29-1996)
§ 39.31 ADDRESSING.
   (A)   All addresses must contain a number. No number may contain more than
five digits. Only whole numbers may be used in addresses. All addresses on a
street shall have sequential numbers.
   (B)   All addresses must contain a street name. The names may contain a
maximum of 20 letters, however, such names shall not contain fewer than two
letters. The following are prohibited in new street names:
      (1)   Numerical digits or numerical names;
      (2)   Leading single letter phrases;
      (3)   Confusing, obscene, or irregularly spelled words;
      (4)   Duplicate or closely approximate names of other streets; and
      (5)   Use of the words “service”, “street”, “drive”, or “avenue”.
   (C)   An address shall not contain a duplication of the type of street
within its name (i.e., Veterans Park PK). When an address contains the names of
two types of streets, the first type becomes part of the street name and second
type must be abbreviated.
   (D)   Streets having the same name, but designated as different types of
streets, are acceptable only when the streets are contiguous and have unique
number sequences.
   (E)   Structures must have frontage or an entrance to the street on which
their address is assigned.
   (F)   Separate streets which are capable of ultimate connection shall have
the same name until it is determined that their connection will not likely
occur. Once the roadways are deemed unconnectable, the addresses shall be
changed to assign unique street names for all affected segments.
(Prior Code, § 28.201) (Ord. 96-5, passed 2-29-1996)
§ 39.32 RENUMBERING; RENAMING.
   Whenever, in the opinion of the Winchester Board of Commissioners and the
County Fiscal Court, it shall become necessary or advisable to renumber or
rename any or all properties and/or sites on a street, the E-911 Committee or
Winchester-Clark County Planning Commission shall designate the numbers/names
for all such properties or sites, and thereupon notify the owners and/or
occupants, if the owner be a nonresident thereof, to have the designated
number/street name changed and properly displayed on such property or site.
(Prior Code, § 28.202) (Ord. 96-5, passed 2-29-1996)
§ 39.33 MAINTENANCE OF NUMBER DISPLAY; DEFACEMENT; NON-COMPLIANCE.
   (A)   The Codes or Law Enforcement personnel for the city and county
governments shall have the power to require the owner or occupant of any
business or residential structure within the county to affix and maintain
building, site, and/or property numbers as required in this subchapter.
   (B)   Any person who unlawfully defaces, moves, removes, or causes to be
moved or removed any building, site, or property number affixed upon a
structure or other device such as a street sign in such a way that it is not
clearly visible and identifiable at all time during daylight hours, shall be
subject to the penalty provided in §
39.99.
   (C)   Any person who places or causes to be placed any sign bearing a name
not approved by the Winchester-Clark County Planning Commission upon any
private access easement shall be subject to the penalty provided in §
39.99.
(Prior Code, § 28.203) (Ord. 96-5, passed 2-29-1996)
§ 39.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any owner or occupant of a business or residential structure who
violates the provisions of §
39.33(A), upon being notified by the Code Enforcement personnel of the city and
county governments to affix a number upon a structure or other device, shall
fail to do so within five days of notification, shall be subject to a fine of
$10 for each day thereafter until he or she complies with the order of the Code
Enforcement personnel.
   (B)   Any person who violates the provisions of §
39.33(B) shall be subject to a fine of $25 for each offense.
   (C)   Any person who violates the provisions of §
39.33(C) shall be subject to a fine of $50 plus a fine of $50 for each day the
sign remains after being given notice by the Code Enforcement personnel for the
city and county governments to remove the sign.
(Prior Code, § 28.999) (Ord. 96-5, passed 2-29-1996)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   SOLID WASTE MANAGEMENT
      
51.   SEWERS
CHAPTER 50: SOLID WASTE MANAGEMENT
Section
General Provisions
   
50.001   Purpose; authority; title
   
50.002   Definitions
   
50.003   Administrative management
   
50.004   Bonds
Storage of Solid Waste
   
50.015   Storage containers required
   
50.016   Solid waste to be stored in a manner prescribed by ordinance
   
50.017   Standards for residential storage containers
   
50.018   Standards for residential, commercial, institutional, and industrial
use storage containers
   
50.019   Air-tight containers
   
50.020   Yard wastes
Collection of Solid Waste
   
50.035   County responsibility defined
   
50.036   Universal collection
   
50.037   Collection points
   
50.038   Bulky rubbish
   
50.039   Authority for collectors to enter private property
   
50.040   Collection frequency
   
50.041   Ownership of solid waste
   
50.042   Collector’s responsibility defined
   
50.043   Acceptable collection practices
   
50.044   Prohibitions
   
50.045   Collection vehicle standards
Disposal of Solid Waste
   
50.060   Open burning
   
50.061   Open dumping
   
50.062   Disposal sites
   
50.063   Hazardous waste
   
50.064   Agricultural waste
Permits
   
50.075   Permit requirements
   
50.076   Insurance requirements
   
50.077   Permit application
   
50.078   Permit issuance
   
50.079   Application denial
   
50.080   Annual fee
   
50.081   Permit suspension
   
50.082   Injunctive relief
   
50.083   Appeal
   
50.084   Permit display
   
50.085   Reporting requirements
Rules and Regulations
   
50.100   Promulgation of rules and regulations
   
50.101   Enforcement
   
50.102   Prohibited practices
Public Nuisances
   
50.115   Notification
   
50.116   Non-compliance
   
50.117   Cost recovery
Litter Control and Collection Boxes
   
50.130   Control of litter
   
50.131   Collection boxes
Inspections and Enforcement
   
50.145   Authorized enforcement agent
   
50.146   Inspection; investigation
   
50.147   Enforcement; cleanup
 
   
50.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 50.001 PURPOSE; AUTHORITY; TITLE.
   (A)   Pursuant to KRS Chapters 224 and 109, and related administrative
regulations, the county, including Winchester, has been designated as a solid
waste management area, based upon a Solid Waste Management Plan approved by the
Natural Resources and Environmental Protection Cabinet, hereinafter referred to
as “the Cabinet”, of the state. In addition, the county is acting under powers
in KRS 67.083(3)(o) which provides the authority to manage solid waste by
ordinance.
   (B)   This chapter shall be known as “the Solid Waste Management Chapter”.
(Prior Code, § 30.001) (Ord. 91-4, passed 5-22-1991)
§ 50.002 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AGRICULTURAL USE. Operations for the production of agricultural or
horticultural crops, including, but not limited to, livestock, livestock
products, poultry, poultry products, grain, hay, pastures, soybeans, tobacco,
timber, orchard fruits, vegetables, flowers, or ornamental plants, including
provision for dwellings for persons and their families who are engaged in the
above agricultural use on their tract.
   AGRICULTURAL WASTE. Any non-hazardous waste resulting from the production
and processing of on-the-farm agricultural products, including manures,
prunings, and crop residues.
   APPROVED INCINERATOR. An incinerator which complies with all current
regulations of the responsible local, state, and federal air pollution control
agencies.
   BULKY WASTE. Non-putrescible solid wastes consisting of combustible and/or
non-combustible waste materials from dwelling units, commercial, industrial,
institutional, or agricultural establishments which are either too large or too
heavy to be safely and conveniently loaded into solid waste transportation
vehicles.
   CABINET. The Natural Resources and Environmental Protection Cabinet.
   CLOSURE. The time at which a waste treatment, storage, or disposal facility
permanently ceases to accept wastes and includes those actions taken by the
owner or operator of the facility to prepare the site for post-closure
monitoring and maintenance or to make it suitable for other uses.
   COLLECTION. Removal of solid waste from the designated pick-up location to
the transfer vehicle. Acceptable collection practices shall consist of the
following:
      (1)   Door-to-door household collection; and/or
      (2)   Direct access to a staffed convenience center or transfer facility.
   COLLECTION BOX. An unstaffed receptacle utilized to collect municipal solid
waste.
   COMMERCIAL SOLID WASTE. All types of solid waste generated by stores,
offices, restaurants, warehouses, and other service and nonmanufacturing
activities, excluding households and industrial solid waste.
   COMPOST. Solid waste which has undergone biological decomposition of organic
matter, been disinfected using composting or similar technologies, been
stabilized to a degree which is potentially beneficial to plant growth and
which is approved for use or sale as a soil amendment, artificial topsoil,
growing medium amendment, or other similar use.
   COMPOSTING. The process by which biological decomposition of organic solid
waste is carried out under controlled aerobic conditions and which can easily
and safely be stored, handled, and used in an environmentally acceptable
manner.
      (1)   COMPOSTING may include a process which creates an anaerobic zone
within the composting material.
      (2)   COMPOSTING does not include simple exposure of solid waste under
uncontrolled conditions resulting in natural decay.
   CONSTRUCTION AND DEMOLITION DEBRIS. Materials resulting from the
construction or destruction of residential, industrial, or commercial
structures.
   CONVENIENCE CENTERS. A facility that is staffed during operating hours for
the collection of municipal solid waste.
   COUNTY. The County of Clark, Kentucky.
   DIRECTOR. The director of the Solid Waste Management Program of the county
shall be the Clark County Judge/Executive. The DIRECTOR, as used in this
chapter, shall refer to the Solid Waste Coordinator of Clark County.
   DISPOSABLE SOLID WASTE CONTAINER. Disposable plastic or paper sacks with a
capacity of ten to 35 gallons specifically designed for storage of solid waste.
   DISPOSAL. The discharge, deposit, injection, dumping, spilling, leaking, or
placing of any solid waste or hazardous waste into or on any land or water so
that such solid waste or hazardous waste or any constituent thereof may enter
the environment, be emitted into the air, or be discharged into any water,
including ground waters.
   DWELLING UNIT. Any room or group of rooms located within a structure and
forming a single habitable unit with facilities which are used or are intended
to be used for living, sleeping, cooking, and eating.
   GENERATOR. Any person, or site, whose act or process produces wastes.
   GOVERNING BODY. A county, a waste management district, an entity created
pursuant to the Interlocal Cooperation Act being KRS 65.210 et seq., a taxing
district created pursuant to the provisions of KRS 65.180 through 65.192, a
special district created pursuant to the provisions of KRS 65.160 through
65.176, or counties acting under contract pursuant to KRS 109.082.
   HAZARDOUS WASTE. Any waste or combination of wastes which are determined by
the Cabinet because of their quantity, concentration, or physical, chemical, or
infectious characteristics may cause or significantly contribute to an increase
in mortality or an increase in serious irreversible or incapacitating
reversible illness, or pose a substantial present or potential hazard to human
health or the environment when improperly treated, stored, transported, or
disposed of, or otherwise managed.
   HOUSEHOLD SOLID WASTE. Solid waste, including garbage and trash generated by
single- and multiple-family residences, hotels, motels, bunkhouses, ranger
stations, crew quarters, and recreational areas such as picnic areas, parks,
and campgrounds.
   INDUSTRIAL SOLID WASTE. Solid waste generated by manufacturing or industrial
processes that is not a hazardous waste or a special waste as designated by KRS
224.50-760, including, but not limited to, waste resulting from the following
manufacturing processes: electric power generation; fertilizer or agricultural
chemicals; food and related products or by-products; inorganic chemicals; iron
and steel manufacturing; leather and leather products; nonferrous metals
manufacturing/foundries; organic chemicals; plastics and resins manufacturing;
pulp and paper industry; rubber and miscellaneous plastic products; stone,
glass, clay, and concrete products; textile manufacturing; transportation
equipment; and water treatment.
   KEY PERSONNEL. An officer, partner, director, manager, or shareholder of 5%
or more of stock or financial interest in a corporation, partnership, or
association, or parent, subsidiary, or affiliate corporation, and its officers,
directors, and shareholders of 5% or more of stock or financial interest.
   MATERIALS RECOVERY FACILITY. A solid waste management facility that provides
for the extraction from solid waste of recyclable materials, materials suitable
for use as a fuel or soil amendment, or any combination of those materials.
   MUCK. Animal waste, manure, animal urine, straw, grass, hay, legumes of any
sort, paper or paper products, sawdust, and any and all other material commonly
used or that might be used for bedding of horses or any other animals, or used
for any other purpose in the keeping of livestock and farm animals on farms or
any other place where the same might be used for the keeping of animals.
   MULTI-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL UNIT. A housing facility containing more than one
dwelling unit under one roof.
   MUNICIPAL SOLID WASTE DISPOSAL FACILITY. Any type of waste site or facility
where the final decomposition of any amount of municipal solid waste occurs,
whether or not mixed with or including other waste allowed under Subtitle D of
the Federal Resources Conservation and Recovery Act of 1976, being 42 U.S.C. §§
6941 et seq., as amended, and includes, but is not limited to, incinerators and
waste-to-energy facilities that burn municipal solid waste, and contained and
residential landfills, but does not include a waste site or facility which is
operated exclusively by a solid waste generator on property owned by the solid
waste generator which accepts only industrial solid waste from the solid waste
generator or industrial solid waste generated at another facility owned and
operated by the generator or wholly-owned subsidiary, or a medical waste
incinerator which is owned, operated, and located on the property of a hospital
or university which is regulated by the Cabinet and used for the purpose of
treatment, prior to landfill, of medical waste received from the generator
exclusively or in combination with medical waste generated by professionals or
facilities licensed or regulated or operated by the state.
   MUNICIPAL SOLID WASTE REDUCTION. Source reduction, waste minimization,
reuse, recycling, composting, and materials recovery.
   OCCUPANT. Any person who, alone or jointly, or severally with others, shall
be in actual possession of any dwelling unit or any other improved real
property, either as an owner or as a tenant.
   OPEN BURNING. Burning of any matter in such manner that the combustion
resulting from burning is remitted directly into the outdoor atmosphere without
passing through a stack or chimney.
   OPEN DUMP. Any facility on site for the disposal of solid waste which does
not have a valid permit issued by the Cabinet or does not meet the
environmental performance standards established under regulations promulgated
by the Cabinet.
   PERSON. An individual, trust, firm, joint stock company, corporation
(including a government corporation), partnership, association, federal agency,
state agency, city, commission, political subdivision of the state, or any
interstate body.
   PROCESSING. Incinerating, composting, baling, shredding, salvaging,
compacting, and other processes whereby solid waste characteristics are
modified or solid waste quantity is reduced.
   PUBLIC NUISANCE. Illegal waste disposal practices that include, but are not
limited to, open burning, open dumps, or littering.
   RECOVERED MATERIAL. Those materials, including, but not limited to, compost,
which have known current use, reuse, or recycling potential, which can be
feasibly used, reused, or recycled, and which have been diverted or removed
from the solid waste stream for sale, use, reuse, or recycling, whether or not
requiring subsequent separation and processing, but does not include materials
diverted or removed for purposes of energy recovery or combustion except
refuse-derived fuel (RDF), which shall be credited as a recovered material in
an amount equal to the percentage of that received on a daily basis at the
processing facility and processed into RDF; but not to exceed 15% of the total
amount of the municipal solid waste received at the processing facility on a
daily basis.
   RECOVERED MATERIAL PROCESSING FACILITY. A facility engaged solely in the
storage, processing, and resale or reuse of recovered material, but does not
mean a solid waste management facility if solid waste generated by a recovered
material processing facility is managed pursuant to KRS Chapter 224, and
administrative regulations adopted by the Cabinet.
   RECYCLING. Any process by which materials which would otherwise become solid
waste are collected, separated, or processed and reused or returned to use in
the form of raw materials or products, including refuse-derived fuel when
processed in accordance with administrative regulations established by the
Cabinet, but does not include the incineration or combustion of materials for
the recovery of energy.
   REFUSE-DERIVED FUEL. A sized, processed fuel product derived from the
extensive separation of municipal solid waste, which includes the extraction of
recoverable materials for recycling and the removal of non-processables such as
dirt and gravel prior to processing the balance of the municipal solid waste
into the refuse-derived fuel product.
   RESIDENTIAL DWELLING UNIT. A building or portion thereof, providing complete
housekeeping facilities for one person or one family.
   RESIDENTIAL SOLID WASTE. Solid waste resulting from the maintenance of
dwelling units.
   SANITARY LANDFILL. A permitted facility for the disposal of solid waste
which complies with the environmental performance standards specified in 401
KAR 47:030.
   SLUDGE. Any solid, semi-solid, or liquid waste generated from a municipal,
commercial, or industrial wastewater treatment plant, water supply treatment
plant, or air pollution control facility exclusive of the treated effluent from
a wastewater treatment plant or any other such waste having similar
characteristics and effects.
   SOLID WASTE. Any garbage, refuse, sludge, and other discarded material,
including solid, liquid, semi-solid, or contained gaseous material resulting
from industrial, commercial, construction, and demolition operations, mining
(excluding coal mining wastes, coal mining by-products, refuse, and
overburden), and agricultural operations, and from community activities, but
does not include those materials including, but not limited to, sand, soil,
rock, gravel, or bridge debris extracted as part of a public road construction
project funded wholly or in part with state funds, recovered material, special
wastes as designated by KRS 224.50-760, solid or dissolved material in domestic
sewage, manure, crops, crop residue, or a combination thereof which are placed
on the soil for return to the soil as fertilizers or stored for return to the
soil as fertilizers, or soil conditioners, or solid or dissolved material in
irrigation return flows or industrial discharges which are point sources
subject to permits under § 402 of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act being
33 U.S.C. § 1342, as amended (86 Stat. 880), or source, special nuclear, or by-
product material as defined by the Atomic Energy Act of 1954 being 42 U.S.C. §§
2011 et seq., as amended (68 Stat. 923).
   SOLID WASTE MANAGEMENT. The administration of solid waste activities:
collection; storage; transportation; transfer; processing; treatment; and
disposal, which shall be in accordance with a Cabinet approved county or multi-
county solid waste management plan.
   SOLID WASTE MANAGEMENT AREA OR AREAS. Any geographical areas established or
designated by the Cabinet in accordance with the provisions of Senate Bill 2.
   SOLID WASTE MANAGEMENT FACILITY. Any facility for collection, storage,
transportation, transfer, processing, treatment, or disposal of solid waste,
whether such facility is associated with facilities generating such wastes or
otherwise, but does not include a container located on property where solid
waste is generated and which is used solely for the purpose of collection and
temporary storage of that solid waste prior to off-site disposal, or a
recovered material processing facility which is subject to regulation pursuant
to Senate Bill 2 for control of environmental impacts and to prevent any public
nuisance.
   SOLID WASTE MANAGEMENT PLAN. The document submitted by waste management
districts, counties, or any combination thereof as required under KRS 224.43-
340 and approved by the Cabinet.
   SOLID WASTE SITE OR FACILITY. Any place at which solid waste is managed,
stored, treated, processed, or disposed.
   SOLID WASTE STORAGE/CONTAINER. Receptacle used by any person to store solid
waste during the interval between solid waste generation and collection. A
SOLID WASTE CONTAINER is made out of plastic, vinyl, or metal, ranging in size
from about ten gallons to 42 cubic yards in size.
   STORAGE. The containment of wastes, either on a temporary basis or for a
period of years, in such a manner as not to constitute disposal of such wastes.
   TRANSFER. The placement of solid waste from smaller collection vehicles into
larger vehicles for transportation to intermediate or final disposal
facilities.
   TRANSFER FACILITY. Any transportation related facility including loading
docks, parking areas, and other similar areas where shipments of solid waste
are held or transferred during the normal course or transportation.
   TRANSPORTATION. Any off-site movement of waste by any mode, and any loading,
unloading, or storage incidental thereto.
   TREATMENT. Any method, technique, or process including neutralization,
designed to change the physical, chemical, or biological character or
composition of any waste so as to neutralize such waste or so as to render such
waste non-hazardous, safer for transport, amenable for recovery, amenable for
storage, or reduced in volume. Such term includes any activity or processing
designed to change the physical form or chemical composition of hazardous waste
so as to render it non-hazardous.
   UNIVERSAL COLLECTION. A municipal solid waste collection system which is
established by ordinance and approved by the Cabinet and requires access for
each household or solid waste generator in a county.
   WASTE MANAGEMENT DISTRICT. Any county or group of counties electing to form
under the provisions of KRS Chapter 109 and operate in conformance with the
provisions of KRS Chapter 109 and with § 4006, Resource Conservation and
Recovery Act of 1976 being 42 U.S.C. § 6946, as amended (Pub. Law No. 94-580).
   WASTE SITE OR FACILITY. Any place where waste is managed, processed, or
disposed of by incineration, landfilling, or any other method, but does not
include a container located on property where solid waste is generated and
which is used solely for the purpose of collection and temporary storage of
that solid waste prior to off-site disposal, or a recovered material processing
facility or the combustion of processed waste in a utility boiler.
   YARD WASTES. Grass clippings, leaves, and tree trimmings.
(Prior Code, § 30.002) (Ord. 91-4, passed 5-22-1991; Ord. 96-8, passed 5-23-
1996)
§ 50.003 ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT.
   The Clark County Judge/Executive shall be responsible for the administrative
management of this chapter and the promulgation of rules and regulations
authorized in §§
50.100 and
50.101.
(Prior Code, § 30.003) (Ord. 91-4, passed 5-22-1991)
§ 50.004 BONDS.
   Bonds are suggested for permits to collect and transport solid waste and to
operate processing or disposal facilities. The amounts and types shall be
determined by the county. Types of bonds which should be considered are
performance bonds and payment bonds.
(Prior Code, § 30.004) (Ord. 91-4, passed 5-22-1991)
STORAGE OF SOLID WASTE
§ 50.015 STORAGE CONTAINERS REQUIRED.
   The occupant or owner of every residential dwelling unit, agricultural,
commercial, or institutional and industrial establishment producing solid waste
within the county shall provide sufficient and adequate containers for the
storage of all solid waste except bulky waste, and construction and demolition
debris to serve each dwelling unit and/or establishment; and to maintain such
solid waste containers in good repair at all times.
(Prior Code, § 30.100) (Ord. 91-4, passed 5-22-1991; Ord. 96-8, passed 5-23-
1996)
§ 50.016 SOLID WASTE TO BE STORED IN A MANNER PRESCRIBED BY ORDINANCE.
   The occupant or owner of every residential dwelling unit, agricultural,
commercial, business, institutional, and industrial establishment shall place
all solid waste to be collected in proper solid waste containers, and shall
maintain such solid waste containers and the area surrounding them in a clean,
neat, and sanitary condition at all times. Solid waste shall be stored in a
manner that will be kept free from insect and rodent infestation and will not
create a fire hazard.
(Prior Code, § 30.101) (Ord. 91-4, passed 5-22-1991) Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.017 STANDARDS FOR RESIDENTIAL STORAGE CONTAINERS.
   Residential solid waste shall be stored in storage containers of not less
than ten gallons nor more than 35 gallons in nominal capacity. Storage
containers shall be leakproof, waterproof, and fitted with a fly-tight lid and
shall be properly covered at all times, except when depositing waste therein or
removing the contents thereof. The containers shall have handles, bails, or
other suitable lifting devices or features. Containers shall be of a type
originally manufactured for residential solid waste, with tapered sides for
easy emptying. They shall be of light weight and sturdy construction. The
weight of any individual storage containers and contents shall not exceed 75
pounds. Galvanized metal containers, or rubber, fiberglass, plastic, or vinyl
containers, which do not become brittle in cold weather may be used. Disposable
solid waste containers within suitable frames, wire bag holders, or other
storage containers may also be used for storage of residential solid waste,
subject to approval by the Director.
(Prior Code, § 30.102) (Ord. 91-4, passed 5-22-1991) Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.018 STANDARDS FOR RESIDENTIAL, COMMERCIAL, INSTITUTIONAL, AND INDUSTRIAL
USE STORAGE CONTAINERS.
   All uses which generate more than a volume of two cubic yards (i.e.,
approximately equivalent to 500 pounds or one-quarter ton or 400 gallons) of
solid waste per week shall be required to provide bulk containers for storage
as approved by the Director. The containers shall be waterproof, leakproof, and
shall be covered at all times except when depositing waste therein or removing
the contents thereof, and shall meet all requirements as referenced in §§
50.100 and
50.101.
(Prior Code, § 30.103) (Ord. 91-4, passed 5-22-1991)
§ 50.019 AIR-TIGHT CONTAINERS.
   No owner, occupant, tenant, or lessee of any building or dwelling may leave
outside the dwelling or building, in a place accessible particularly to
children, any abandoned or unattended white goods (i.e., icebox, refrigerator,
or other receptacle that has an airtight door) without first removing the door.
(Prior Code, § 30.104) (Ord. 91-4, passed 5-22-1991) Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.020 YARD WASTES.
   Tree limbs less than four inches in diameter, lumber, and brush shall be
securely tied in bundles not larger than 48 inches long and 18 inches in
diameter when not placed in storage containers. The weight of any individual
bundle shall not exceed 75 pounds. Yard wastes shall be stored in containers so
constructed and maintained as to prevent the dispersal of wastes placed therein
upon the premises served, upon adjacent premises or upon adjacent public
rights-of-way. The weight of any individual container and contents shall not
exceed 75 pounds.
(Prior Code, § 30.105) (Ord. 91-4, passed 5-22-1991)
COLLECTION OF SOLID WASTE
§ 50.035 COUNTY RESPONSIBILITY DEFINED.
   The county shall provide for the collection of solid waste as follows.
   (A)   The county shall provide for the collection of all solid waste in the
county, provided, however, the county may provide the collection service by
contracting with a person, county, or other city or a combination thereof, for
the entire county or portions thereof as deemed to be in the best interest of
the county.
   (B)   The county may, at its discretion, provide commercial and construction
and demolition solid waste collection services.
(Prior Code, § 30.200) (Ord. 91-4, passed 5-22-1991)
§ 50.036 UNIVERSAL COLLECTION.
   A municipal solid waste collection system which is established by ordinance
and approved by the Cabinet requires access for each household or solid waste
generator in a county and all residents and permitted haulers shall have access
to convenience centers operated by the county.
(Prior Code, § 30.201) (Ord. 91-4, passed 5-22-1991)
§ 50.037 COLLECTION POINTS.
   Tree limbs and yard wastes, as described in § 30.205, shall be placed at the
curb, alley, or the rear of the building for collection. Points of collection
of solid waste shall be from the roadside or curbside within public rights-of-
way or other locations near buildings, parking lots, and the like on private
property. In general, solid waste generated by residential or agricultural uses
shall be placed along the roadside or curbside fronting the subject property
not more than 12 hours before collection. All reusable storage containers shall
be removed from the roadside or curbside by the generator within 12 hours after
collection. Residential, agricultural, commercial, institutional, and
industrial uses required to provide bulk storage containers shall be located on
private property in areas accessible to collection vehicles.
(Prior Code, § 30.202) (Ord. 91-4, passed 5-22-1991)
§ 50.038 BULKY RUBBISH.
   The Director shall establish the procedures for collecting bulky rubbish
from residential units within the county. Bulky rubbish shall be collected upon
request.
(Prior Code, § 30.203) (Ord. 91-4, passed 5-22-1991)
§ 50.039 AUTHORITY FOR COLLECTORS TO ENTER PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   Solid waste collectors, employed by the county or a solid waste collection
agency operating under contract with the county, are hereby authorized to enter
upon private property for the purpose of collecting solid waste therefrom as
required by this chapter. Solid waste collectors shall not enter dwelling units
or other residential buildings for the purpose of collecting residential solid
waste. Commercial solid waste may be removed from within commercial
establishments upon written request of the owner and approval by the Director.
(Prior Code, § 30.204) (Ord. 91-4, passed 5-22-1991)
§ 50.040 COLLECTION FREQUENCY.
   All solid waste, other than bulky waste, shall be collected at least once
weekly. Residential, agricultural, commercial, institutional, and industrial
users generating large quantities of solid waste may be required to provide
collection at more frequent intervals (i.e., twice weekly or more), upon
determination by the Director, as necessary for the protection of public
health, safety, and welfare.
(Prior Code, § 30.205) (Ord. 91-4, passed 5-22-1991)
§ 50.041 OWNERSHIP OF SOLID WASTE.
   All garbage and refuse placed in authorized storage containers and placed at
the point of collection defined in §
50.037, shall become the property of the county or its duly authorized agent
with the exception of the prohibited items in §
50.044, and no person shall be allowed to separate, carry off, or dispose of
the same without written permission of the Director.
(Prior Code, § 30.206) (Ord. 91-4, passed 5-22-1991) Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.042 COLLECTOR’S RESPONSIBILITY DEFINED.
   Solid waste collectors operating within the county shall be responsible for
the collection of solid waste from collection points to a transportation
vehicle, provided solid waste is stored in compliance with provisions set forth
in this chapter. Spillage or blowing litter, caused as a result of the duties
of the solid waste collector, shall be collected and placed in the
transportation vehicle by the collector.
(Prior Code, § 30.207) (Ord. 91-4, passed 5-22-1991)
§ 50.043 ACCEPTABLE COLLECTION PRACTICES.
   Collection practices which are deemed acceptable by the county are as
follows.
   (A)   Door-to-door household collection. Collection service may be provided
by the county or by contract, franchise, or permit with the private sector.
   (B)   Direct access to a staffed convenience center or transfer facility
within the county. Residents may transport their waste directly to Cabinet
approved staffed convenience centers or transfer facilities within the
boundaries of the county which meet the environmental performance standards of
401 KAR 49 et seq.
(Prior Code, § 30.208) (Ord. 91-4, passed 5-22-1991)
§ 50.044 PROHIBITIONS.
   (A)   The following wastes may not be deposited in solid waste containers or
receptacles:
      (1)   Hazardous waste;
      (2)   Liquid waste;
      (3)   Bulky wastes, major appliances, furniture;
      (4)   Tires;
      (5)   Construction and demolition wastes;
      (6)   Dead animals;
      (7)   Any burning or smoldering materials or any other materials that
would create a fire hazard; or
      (8)   Batteries.
   (B)   No person may remove any item from a solid waste receptacle, climb on
or into a container or receptacle, or damage any container.
(Prior Code, § 30.209) (Ord. 91-4, passed 5-22-1991) Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.045 COLLECTION VEHICLE STANDARDS.
   (A)   All transportation vehicles shall be maintained in a safe, clean, and
sanitary condition, and shall be constructed, maintained, and operated as to
prevent spillage of solid waste therefrom.
   (B)   All vehicles to be used for transportation of solid waste shall have
covers which shall be an integral part of the vehicle or shall be a separate
cover of suitable material with fasteners designed to secure all sides of the
cover to the vehicle and shall be secured whenever the vehicle is transporting
solid waste, or, as an alternate, the entire bodies thereof shall be enclosed
with only loading hoppers exposed.
   (C)   No solid waste shall be transported in the loading hoppers.
   (D)   They shall be cleaned as often as necessary to prevent a nuisance and
insect breeding and shall be maintained in good repair.
(Prior Code, § 30.300) (Ord. 91-4, passed 5-22-1991; Ord. 96-8, passed 5-23-
1996) Penalty, see §
50.999
DISPOSAL OF SOLID WASTE
§ 50.060 OPEN BURNING.
   Open burning of solid waste, muck, hazardous waste, or bulky waste is
prohibited, except agricultural waste generated by agricultural operations,
other than muck, may be burned on the site where it was produced and local fire
officials must be notified of the intent to burn when conditions warrant.
(Prior Code, § 30.400) (Ord. 91-4, passed 5-22-1991) Penalty, see §
50.999
Cross-reference:
   Outdoor and open burning as nuisances, see §§
90.50 et seq.
§ 50.061 OPEN DUMPING.
   Open dumping of solid waste, including bulky waste, on all lands (i.e.,
roadsides, hollows, rivers, streams, lakes, and the like) by any person is
prohibited by KRS 224.40-100 and this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 30.401) (Ord. 91-4, passed 5-22-1991; Ord. 96-8, passed 5-23-
1996) Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.062 DISPOSAL SITES.
   All solid waste, including bulky waste, shall be disposed of within a
sanitary landfill having a valid permit issued by the Cabinet in compliance
with KRS 224.43-010, 224.40-100, and 224.40-310 and this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 30.402) (Ord. 91-4, passed 5-22-1991; Ord. 96-8, passed 5-23-
1996)
§ 50.063 HAZARDOUS WASTE.
   As defined in §
50.002, hazardous waste will require special handling and shall be disposed of
only in a manner authorized by state and/or federal regulations.
(Prior Code, § 30.403) (Ord. 91-4, passed 5-22-1991)
§ 50.064 AGRICULTURAL WASTE.
   Agricultural waste that does not contaminate the environment, and was
generated by agricultural operations, and does not create an erosion hazard,
but enhances the agronomic needs of the soil may be disposed on site.
(Prior Code, § 30.404) (Ord. 91-4, passed 5-22-1991)
PERMITS
§ 50.075 PERMIT REQUIREMENTS.
   No person shall engage in the business of collection, transporting, or
processing of solid waste within the county without a permit secured from the
Director. In the event any one person engages in the collection,
transportation, and processing of solid waste, or any combination thereof,
there shall be required of the person only one permit hereunder.
(Prior Code, § 30.500) (Ord. 91-4, passed 5-22-1991) Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.076 INSURANCE REQUIREMENTS.
   No such permit shall be issued until and unless the applicant therefor, in
addition to all other requirements set forth, shall file and maintain with the
Director evidence of a satisfactory public liability insurance policy including
uninsured and under-insured motorists, covering all operations of the applicant
pertaining to such business and all vehicles to be operated in the conduct
thereof, in the amount of not less than $1,000,000 for any one occurrence and
$2,000,000 aggregate for any bodily injury/property damage. The policy may be
written to allow the first $250 of liability for damage to property to be
deductible. Workers’s compensation and employee’s liability insurance to cover
injury or death to any of the employees or workers in an amount not less than
the statutory limits is required. Should any such policy be canceled, the
Director shall be notified of the cancellation by the insurance carrier, in
writing, not less than 30 days prior to the effective date of such
cancellation, and provisions to that effect shall be incorporated in the
policy, which shall also place upon the company writing the policy the duty to
give such notice.
(Prior Code, § 30.501) (Ord. 91-4, passed 5-22-1991)
§ 50.077 PERMIT APPLICATION.
   Each applicant for any such permit shall state in his or her application the
following:
   (A)   The nature of the permit desired to collect, process, or transport
solid waste or any combination thereof;
   (B)   Name and address of the applicant and statement as to whether the
business is a sole proprietorship, corporation, or partnership with disclosure
of the ownership interests;
   (C)   The number of employees and solid waste collection vehicles to be
operated thereunder;
   (D)   Rates the applicant plans to charge customers;
   (E)   Location or locations of solid waste processing or disposal facilities
to be used;
   (F)   Service routes and boundaries of collection area; and
   (G)   Other such information as required by the Director.
(Prior Code, § 30.502) (Ord. 91-4, passed 5-22-1991)
§ 50.078 PERMIT ISSUANCE.
   If the application shows that the applicant will collect, transport, and
process solid waste without hazard to the public health or damage to the
environment in conformity with the laws of the state and this chapter, the
Director may issue the permit authorized by this chapter. The Director shall
have the authority to limit the number of permits issued to preserve the
health, comfort, safety, and welfare of the residents, to promote energy
conservation, and to provide for collection and disposal consistent with good
solid waste management practices. The permit shall be issued for a period of
one year, and each applicant shall pay a fee of $50. If modifications can be
made to the applicant regarding service, equipment, or mode of operation so as
to bring the applicant within the intent of this chapter, the Director shall
notify the applicant, in writing, setting forth the modification to be made and
the time in which it shall be done.
(Prior Code, § 30.503) (Ord. 91-4, passed 5-22-1991)
§ 50.079 APPLICATION DENIAL.
   If the applicant does not make the modifications pursuant to the notice in §
50.078 within the time limit specified therein or if the application does not
clearly show that the collection, processing, or transportation of solid waste
will not create a public health hazard or be without harmful effects on the
environment, the application shall be denied and the applicant notified by the
Director, in writing, stating the reason for such denial. Nothing in this
section shall prejudice the right of the applicant to reapply after the
rejection of his or her application provided that all aspects of the
reapplication comply with the provisions of this chapter. Nothing in this
section shall prevent the denial of a permit should the total number of annual
permits have already been issued.
(Prior Code, § 30.504) (Ord. 91-4, passed 5-22-1991)
§ 50.080 ANNUAL FEE.
   The permit may be renewed upon payment of the fee as required herein if the
business has not been modified, the collection vehicles meet the requirements
of §
50.045, and the renewal is approved by the Director. If modifications have been
made, the applicant shall reapply for a permit as set forth in §§
50.077 and
50.078. No permits authorized by this chapter shall be transferable from
company to company or person to person.
(Prior Code, § 30.505) (Ord. 91-4, passed 5-22-1991)
§ 50.081 PERMIT SUSPENSION.
   In all cases, when the corrective measures have not been taken within the
time specified, the Director shall suspend or revoke the permit or permits
involved in the violations. However, in those cases where an extension of time
will permit correction and there is no public health hazard created by the
delay, one extension of time not to exceed the original time period may be
given.
(Prior Code, § 30.506) (Ord. 91-4, passed 5-22-1991)
§ 50.082 INJUNCTIVE RELIEF.
   In the event a permit is revoked and the person continues to operate, the
Director may request the action of a court of law to enjoin the acts and to
enforce compliance with this chapter or any rule or regulation promulgated
thereunder.
(Prior Code, § 30.507) (Ord. 91-4, passed 5-22-1991)
§ 50.083 APPEAL.
   Any person who feels aggrieved by any notice of violation or order issued
pursuant thereto by the Director may, within 60 days of the act for which
redress is sought, appeal directly to the county, in writing, setting forth in
a concise statement the act being appealed and the grounds for its reversal.
(Prior Code, § 30.508) (Ord. 91-4, passed 5-22-1991)
§ 50.084 PERMIT DISPLAY.
   All motor vehicles operating under any permit required by this chapter shall
display the number or numbers on each side in colors which contrast with that
of the vehicle, such numbers to be clearly legible and not less than two inches
in height. A copy of the permit shall be maintained in the vehicle. Each permit
for processing or disposal facilities shall be prominently displayed at the
facility.
(Prior Code, § 30.509) (Ord. 91-4, passed 5-22-1991)
§ 50.085 REPORTING REQUIREMENTS.
   A permit holder shall provide quarterly reports to the county which update
the information contained in the permit application and provide other such
information as required by the Director.
(Prior Code, § 30.510) (Ord. 91-4, passed 5-22-1991)
RULES AND REGULATIONS
§ 50.100 PROMULGATION OF RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   The Director, with the approval of the Fiscal Court, shall make, amend, and
revoke reasonable rules and regulations governing, but not limited to:
   (A)   Preparation, drainage, and wrapping of garbage deposited in solid
waste containers;
   (B)   Specifications for solid waste containers, including the type,
composition, equipment, size, and shape thereof;
   (C)   Identification of solid waste containers and of the covers thereof,
and of equipment thereto appertaining, if any;
   (D)   Weight limitations on the combined weight of solid waste containers
and the content thereof and weight and size limitations on bundles of solid
waste too large for solid waste containers;
   (E)   Storage of solid waste in solid waste containers;
   (F)   Sanitation, maintenance, and replacement of solid waste containers;
   (G)   Schedules of and routes for collections and transportation of solid
waste;
   (H)   Collection points of solid waste containers;
   (I)   Collection, transportation, processing, and disposal of solid waste;
   (J)   Processing facilities and fees for the use thereof;
   (K)   Disposal facilities and fees for the use thereof;
   (L)   Records of quantity and types of wastes received at processing and/or
disposal facilities;
   (M)   Handling of special wastes such as sludges, ashes, agriculture,
construction, bulky items, tires, oils, greases, and the like; and
   (N)   Reporting requirements of permittees.
(Prior Code, § 30.600) (Ord. 91-4, passed 5-22-1991)
§ 50.101 ENFORCEMENT.
   The Director shall have the authority to enforce all rules and regulations
promulgated under §
50.100.
(Prior Code, § 30.601) (Ord. 91-4, passed 5-22-1991)
§ 50.102 PROHIBITED PRACTICES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to:
   (A)   Dispose of garbage, refuse, rubbish, or debris by dumping same on any
premises in the county with or without the consent of the owner of the
premises;
   (B)   Dump or permit the dumping of garbage, refuse, rubbish, and debris on
any property within the county;
   (C)   Deposit solid waste in any solid waste container other than his or her
own, without the written consent of the owner of the container and/or with the
intent of avoiding payment of the service charge hereinafter provided for solid
waste collection and disposal;
   (D)   Fail to have solid waste disposed of as provided in this chapter;
   (E)   Interfere in any manner with solid waste collection and transportation
equipment or with solid waste collectors in the lawful performance of their
duties as such, whether such equipment or collectors shall be those of the
county or those of a solid waste collection agency operating under contract
with the county;
   (F)   Burn solid waste, muck, hazardous waste, or bulky waste, unless an
approved incinerator is provided or unless a variance has been obtained from
the appropriate air pollution control agency, or is otherwise exempt by this
chapter;
   (G)   Dispose of dead animals in any container to be collected by the
county;
   (H)   Own or operate an open dump;
   (I)   Dispose of solid waste at any facility or location which is not
approved by the county and permitted by the state’s Department for
Environmental Protection;
   (J)   Engage in the business of collecting, transporting, processing, or
disposing of solid waste within the geographic boundaries of the county without
a permit, contract, or franchise agreement from the county, operate under an
expired permit, or operate after a permit has been suspended or revoked or
contract or franchise agreement canceled; or
   (K)   Violate any section of this chapter or any other rule or regulation
promulgated under the authority of §§
50.100 and
50.101.
(Prior Code, § 30.700) (Ord. 91-4, passed 5-22-1991) Penalty, see §
50.999
PUBLIC NUISANCES
§ 50.115 NOTIFICATION.
   It shall be the duty of the Director to serve an order to abate the
nuisance, or cause such order to be served upon the owner or occupant of any
premises on which there is kept or maintained any nuisance in violation of the
provisions of this chapter and to demand the abatement of the nuisance in his
or her discretion not sooner than ten days but not more than 90 days.
(Prior Code, § 30.800) (Ord. 91-4, passed 5-22-1991; Ord. 96-8, passed 5-23-
1996)
§ 50.116 NON-COMPLIANCE.
   (A)   If the person so served does not abate the nuisance within ten days of
service, the county may proceed to abate the nuisance, keeping an account of
the expense of the abatement. The expense of the abatement shall be charged to
and paid by the owner or occupant.
   (B)   Whenever a bill for the charges remains unpaid for 30 days after it
has been rendered, the county may file a statement of lien claim against the
property. The remedies provided to the Director and county in this section and
§
50.115 are non-exclusive remedies in addition to the penalties set out in §
50.999, and those penalties may be asserted against any violator whether or not
the remedies provided in this section and §
50.115 have been pursued by the Director or the county.
(Prior Code, § 30.801) (Ord. 91-4, passed 5-22-1991; Ord. 96-8, passed 5-23-
1996)
§ 50.117 COST RECOVERY.
   (A)   When the county must clean up and remove an open dump to ensure
protection of the public health and safety and when the responsible party can
be identified, the Director shall require these persons to reimburse the county
for the actual costs incurred.
   (B)   Recoverable costs include, but are not limited to, costs for site
assessment and evaluation, labor, equipment, disposal, and legal fees. Should
other means of collection prove ineffective, the county may seek such
reimbursement of funds 90 days following the completion of the cleanup.
   (C)   Such cost recovery should not apply to property owners who are the
victim of illegal dumping of solid waste without their knowledge or beyond
their reasonable control.
(Prior Code, § 30.802) (Ord. 91-4, passed 5-22-1991)
LITTER CONTROL AND COLLECTION BOXES
§ 50.130 CONTROL OF LITTER.
   The county shall regulate litter control in public places, private
residences, and property and shall prohibit the following types of littering,
including, but not limited to:
   (A)   Throwing of litter from vehicles;
   (B)   Removal or sorting from litter receptacles; or
   (C)   Throwing of litter near litter receptacles.
(Prior Code, § 30.900) (Ord. 91-4, passed 5-22-1991) Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.131 COLLECTION BOXES.
   The county ordains that there shall be no legal or designated dump sites in
the county other than those collection boxes as allocated throughout the
county.
(Prior Code, § 30.901) (Ord. 91-4, passed 5-22-1991)
INSPECTIONS AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 50.145 AUTHORIZED ENFORCEMENT AGENT.
   The Solid Waste Management Coordinator, as a representative of the County
Fiscal Court, should be the authorized enforcement agent of this chapter within
the limits of the county.
(Prior Code, § 30.950) (Ord. 96-8, passed 5-23-1996)
§ 50.146 INSPECTION; INVESTIGATION.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the authorized enforcement agent to
investigate all reports or complaints of a violation of this chapter. Any
person who violates any provision of this chapter shall be subject to
punishment by fines or sanctions as set forth in §
50.999.
   (B)   If access to property is required, the investigation shall proceed on
a voluntary basis. If access is needed to proceed with an investigation but is
denied, the authorized enforcement agent may seek any authorization, including
a search warrant, to enter the property.
   (C)   Witness accounts of any acts prohibited herein shall be considered as
evidence to identify violators. Any other pertinent evidence may be considered
to determine whether a violation of this chapter has occurred.
(Prior Code, § 30.951) (Ord. 96-8, passed 5-23-1996)
§ 50.147 ENFORCEMENT; CLEANUP.
   (A)   If a condition violating this chapter exists on real property, the
authorized enforcement agent shall take the following actions.
      (1)   Certified notice shall be mailed to the owner(s) of record at their
last known mailing address. Owner(s) of record will be allowed 30 days from the
day of receipt/refusal of notice to bring the property into compliance or
submit an acceptance cleanup plan specifying dates.
      (2)   If no action is taken by the property owner, the authorized
enforcement agent will take the appropriate actions to bring the property into
compliance with this chapter, including, referring the matter to the County
Attorney for prosecution or declaring a nuisance pursuant to §§
50.115 to 50.117.
      (3)   In the case of an emergency, the authorized enforcement agent may
take immediate action and mail notice no later than 48 hours following the
action. If action to bring compliance is taken, the cost involved may be
recorded as set forth in §§
50.115 to
50.117.
   (B)    It shall be a violation of this chapter to interfere with any
authorized enforcement agent while in the performance of duties hereunder.
   (C)   The owner of property on which illegal dumping acts have occurred may
be included as a party in an enforcement action against a person who committed
the violation for the purposes of obtaining access to the land to clean up and
properly dispose of the wastes.
(Prior Code, § 30.952) (Ord. 96-8, passed 5-23-1996)
§ 50.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter for which
no other penalty is specified provided, or any lawful rules or regulations
promulgated pursuant thereto, shall be, upon conviction, punished by a fine of
not less than $25 nor more than $500. Each day the violation continues to exist
shall be deemed a separate offense. Violators of this chapter may be issued a
citation by the County Director.
   (B)   The removal of any litter or garbage from the collection boxes in
violation of the provisions of §
50.130, thereby causing the same to be placed on the ground around the
collection boxes or otherwise depositing litter or garbage on the ground around
the collection boxes shall constitute knowingly placing or throwing litter on
public or private property and thereby subject the offender to the penalties
provided in division (A) above.
(Prior Code, § 30.999) (Ord. 91-4, passed 5-22-1991)
CHAPTER 51: SEWERS
Section
Privilege Fee
   
51.01   Short title
   
51.02   Privilege fee
   
51.03   Commission approval
   
51.04   Calculation of privilege fee
   
51.05   Application of privilege fee
   
51.06   Additional connections
   
51.07   Multiple privilege fees possible
   
51.08   Connection to facilities
   
51.09   Dedication of facilities
   
51.10   Compensation required
On-site and Centralized Wastewater Systems and
the Creation of a Non-taxing Sanitation District
   
51.20   Prohibited facilities
   
51.21   On-site wastewater system required
   
51.22   Centralized wastewater system required
   
51.23   Connection time extension permit for a public wastewater system
   
51.24   Exclusion of storm water and other surface water
   
51.25   Creation of a non-taxing sanitation district
   
51.26   Sanitation District: purposes, structure and authority
   
51.27   Sanitation District: boundaries
   
51.28   Sanitation District: fees, rates and charges
   
51.29   Sanitation District: communication and cooperation
   
51.30   Sanitation District: no general obligation or personal liability
 
   
51.99   Penalty
PRIVILEGE FEE
§ 51.01 SHORT TITLE.
   This subchapter may be referred to as “the Privilege Fee Ordinance”.
(Ord. 2009-2, passed 2-17-2009)
§ 51.02 PRIVILEGE FEE.
   If WMU or a property owner expends funds on a sanitary sewer facility
including, but not limited to, trunk line sewers, sewer pump stations, or other
sewer improvements (“project facilities”) which will ultimately benefit other
properties in or near the sanitary sewer watershed in which the project
facilities are located, WMU or such owner may be reimbursed on a pro rata basis
for such expenditures in the form of a privilege fee, as supervised by WMU and
approved by the WMU Commission.
(Ord. 2009-2, passed 2-17-2009)
§ 51.03 COMMISSION APPROVAL.
   (A)   The WMU Commission must approve all privilege fee agreements or
declarations in an open session meeting with notice to the public. Upon receipt
of any application for approval of a privilege fee agreement, the WMU
Commission shall notify the chief executive officer of the legislative body
governing the land affected by the privilege fee agreement of such application
and the times and dates when the agreement will be considered by the WMU
Commission, which date shall be at least 30 days after such notice.
   (B)   Prior to submitting a privilege fee agreement or declaration to the
WMU Commission for approval, the person or entity who constructs sewer project
facilities pursuant to this section must comply with the following prerequisite
requirements.
      (1)   All plans for the project facilities must be in accord with all
applicable laws, regulations, and policies and per existing orders of the
federal court and regulations of all regulatory agencies including WMU.
      (2)   The person or entity constructing the project facilities must:
         (a)   Provide written notice by U.S. mail, first class postage
prepaid, to all benefitted owners (as hereinafter defined in §
51.05) of property offering said benefitted owners the opportunity to
participate as participating owners, said written notice to provide a
description of the proposed project, the method of financing, and the date of
the meeting to be conducted by WMU at which the privilege fee agreement or
declaration is to be discussed which date shall be at least 14 days after the
notice;
         (b)   Agree to hold the city, county, and WMU harmless from any
liability arising from the failure to collect the privilege fee at the time the
connection is made; and
         (c)   Said written notice shall illustrate how the estimated costs
shall be shared by each property.
(Ord. 2009-2, passed 2-17-2009)
§ 51.04 CALCULATION OF PRIVILEGE FEE.
   (A)   The shared costs for the construction of the project facilities
subject to apportionment pursuant to the privilege fee agreement or declaration
provided for herein shall be based upon all costs of construction, including
engineering costs, legal fees, survey fees, easement acquisitions, right-of-way
costs and accounting costs to determine and manage the privilege fee agreement
or declaration. The City of Winchester, through WMU, may institute eminent
domain proceedings to obtain necessary easements and all expenses of such
proceedings shall be an included project cost. Participating owners will
dedicate easements free of charge.
   (B)   The cost for the construction of the project facilities shall be
shared by all owners of property covered by the privilege fee agreement or
declaration based upon acreage of each tract of land owned and developed. The
shared costs for the construction of the project shall be paid by the
participating owners in advance, as approved by WMU. For those land owners who
choose not to participate initially (“non-participating owners”) who later
decide to connect their property to the facility constructed by participating
owners, the payment shall be due at the time the non-participating owner
dedicates its facilities to WMU. The participating owners shall be reimbursed
on a proportionate basis based upon acreage as approved by WMU. Further, after
payment is made to WMU, the non- participating owner shall become a
participating owner from the date of payment until the end of the privilege fee
agreement.
   (C)   The privilege fee agreement (PFA) or declaration approved by the WMU
Commission shall provide that the shared costs shall bear simple interest from
the date of dedication of the project facilities to WMU at a fixed rate not to
exceed the coupon yield of the 30-year treasury bill as published by the
Bloomberg on the date of the approval of the PFA. (hereinafter the “fixed
rate”); provided, however, if the project facilities in the PFA are to be
funded solely with grant funds, the finance charge to be included in such PFA
shall be limited to a one time 0.5% of the project facilities cost as an
administrative fee and such PFA obligations of the non-participating owners
shall not otherwise bear an ongoing interest obligation and, if a portion of
the project facilities are paid for using a low interest loan (such as KIA) or
grant funds, the WMUC, in its discretion, may approve a reasonable “blended”
rate which is lower than the fixed rate taking into consideration the
proportionate part of the project facilities that are being funded by the low
interest loan or grant funds in comparison with the total funds expended on the
project facilities using the fixed rate as the financing cost of the remainder
of the funds. No interest shall accrue on any privilege fee agreement after
seven years. All privilege fee agreements or declarations shall extend 50
years.
(Ord. 2009-2, passed 2-17-2009; Ord. 21-2011, passed 12-14-2011)
§ 51.05 APPLICATION OF PRIVILEGE FEE.
   WMU shall make a good faith effort to assure that all property owners within
the watershed served by the project facilities whose property can be reasonably
anticipated to be developed and served by the project facilities within the
term of the proposed privilege fee agreement or declaration (herein “benefitted
owners”) are included in the privilege fee agreement or declaration. Land in
the 100-year floodplain shall not be included in the area of a privilege fee
agreement. In making a determination whether a particular owner will be
benefitted by the project facilities WMU shall consider the land use planning
map and the urban planning area specified in the current Winchester-Clark
County Comprehensive Plan as a guide. However, no privilege fee agreement or
declaration shall be invalid solely for the failure to name all owners which
might be benefitted or for a failure to include or reserve capacity for owners
whose properties are included in a privilege fee agreement or declaration. All
approved privilege fee agreements or declarations shall be recorded at the
office of the County Clerk.
(Ord. 2009-2, passed 2-17-2009)
§ 51.06 ADDITIONAL CONNECTIONS.
   WMU may, in its sole discretion, allow persons or entities who are not
listed on a privilege fee agreement or declaration to connect to project
facilities under such terms and conditions as it deems advisable even if the
connection of such property owner may diminish the capacity of the project
facilities such that a non-participating owner may not be able to connect to
the project facilities at a later date.
(Ord. 2009-2, passed 2-17-2009)
§ 51.07 MULTIPLE PRIVILEGE FEES POSSIBLE.
   The same parcel of property may be included in more than one privilege fee
agreement or declaration and thus require payment of more than one privilege
fee. For example, a parcel of property may be part of a privilege fee agreement
or declaration to provide for construction of a trunk sewer line, serving a
wider area, and may be the subject of another privilege fee agreement or
declaration serving a smaller area which pertains to construction of a sewer
line to serve the trunk sewer.
(Ord. 2009-2, passed 2-17-2009)
§ 51.08 CONNECTION TO FACILITIES.
   No non-participating owner shall be required to pay his or her proportionate
share until such time as that owner decides to develop his or her property and
connect to project facilities; provided, however, no system capacity created by
the project facilities shall be reserved for any non-participating owner until
such owner pays the privilege fee provided for in the privilege fee agreement
or declaration.
(Ord. 2009-2, passed 2-17-2009)
§ 51.09 DEDICATION OF FACILITIES.
   Participating owners shall dedicate the project facilities to WMU. The
project facilities, when completed by the participating owners in accord with
the applicable laws and policies, shall be accepted for perpetual maintenance
and ownership by WMU.
(Ord. 2009-2, passed 2-17-2009)
§ 51.10 COMPENSATION REQUIRED.
   WMU shall not allow any person or entity use of the project facilities
without the required compensation to WMU and the participating owners.
(Ord. 2009-2, passed 2-17-2009)
ON-SITE AND CENTRALIZED WASTEWATER SYSTEMS AND
THE CREATION OF A NON-TAXING SANITATION DISTRICT
§ 51.20 PROHIBITED FACILITIES.
   From the effective date of this chapter, it is deemed a public nuisance,
endangering the public health, and is considered unlawful, for any person
owning an occupied building in the county to construct, install, use, repair,
or maintain a straight pipe to any body of water, or to a seepage pit,
cesspool, sinkhole or other receptacle, or to rely upon a privy or outhouse for
the purpose of receiving or discharging human waste and wastewater, without the
written approval of the County Health Department. The owner of a building
connected to such facilities, and any person(s) that performs the work in
making such a connection, shall be subject to the penalties set out herein.
(Ord. 2021-07, passed 5-27-2021) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.21 ON-SITE WASTEWATER SYSTEM REQUIRED.
   (A)   From the effective date of this chapter, in any area of county where a
public wastewater collection and treatment system is not accessible, it is the
responsibility of a property owner to connect or have connected any and all
newly constructed and/or substantially renovated buildings intended for
occupancy, to an approved, on-site wastewater treatment system. The type,
capacity and location of any on-site wastewater system to serve any such
building intended for occupancy shall comply with the regulations of the County
Health Department and those of the Commonwealth (902 KY Administrative
Regulation (KAR) 10:081 to 10:110), and/or the regulations of the Kentucky
Division of Water (KDOW).
   (B)   The property owner shall operate and maintain the on-site wastewater
system, whether allowed by permit issued by the County Health Department or by
permit of the KDOW, in good and efficient working condition at all times. The
property owner may request the assistance of the Sanitation District in
locating a qualified service provider. Discharge of effluent from any on-site
wastewater system to any open drain, ditch, sinkhole, creek, river, lake, pond,
stream, well or other body of water is prohibited, with the exception that
holders of current NPDES/KPDES permits may discharge at permitted discharge
points.
   (C)   Failure to connect to an approved on-site wastewater system when a
public wastewater system is not accessible is hereby declared to constitute a
nuisance, as endangering the public health and is unlawful.
(Ord. 2021-07, passed 5-27-2021)
Statutory reference:
   For similar provisions under state law, see KRS 212.210
§ 51.22 CENTRALIZED WASTEWATER SYSTEM REQUIRED.
   (A)   All persons owning property in the county, upon which there is an
existing, occupied building that is or becomes accessible to a public
wastewater system, shall make a service connection to that public wastewater
system, at the owner’s expense, using material and workmanship in accordance
with the approved regulations of that public wastewater system, or may seek a
temporary exemption from such connection, as set out in §
51.23 below.
   (B)   The connection shall be made within 120 days from the date that
written notice is provided to the property owner that wastewater service is
accessible. After this time, whether or not the connection to the wastewater
system is made, the property owner shall be billed for wastewater service as
set out below.
   (C)   Occupied buildings are deemed accessible to a public wastewater system
if a collection line of the wastewater system is located within 500 linear feet
of an occupied building or a building to be occupied. At the discretion of the
affected public wastewater system, certain building locations within the 500-
linear-foot distance may be declared “not feasible to serve,” after taking into
consideration geographic site characteristics, hydraulic engineering standards,
and affordability.
   (D)   Permanency of connection. Once a building is connected to a public
wastewater system, the owner may not remove, disconnect, or otherwise interrupt
the flow of wastewater to that public wastewater system for any purpose, unless
so directed in writing by the County Health Department or the KDOW.
   (E)   Failure to connect to a public wastewater system under the conditions
outlined above is hereby declared to constitute a nuisance, as endangering the
public health.
(Ord. 2021-07, passed 5-27-2021) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.23 CONNECTION TIME EXTENSION PERMIT FOR A PUBLIC WASTEWATER SYSTEM.
   A person owning property in the county, upon which there is any existing,
occupied building that is accessible, or that becomes accessible to a public
wastewater system, may apply for a connection time extension permit from the
Sanitation District, which shall be valid for a period of five years from the
date of notice of accessibility provided by the Sanitation District. To be
eligible for a permit, the owner must provide documentation that he or she has
a functioning on-site wastewater treatment system approved by the County Health
Department, or the KDOW, installed within ten calendar years prior to the date
of public wastewater service accessibility. Upon presentation of appropriate
documentation, the person will receive a permit for that specific building. If,
for whatever reason during the period of the time extension, the on-site
wastewater system fails, the permit is automatically revoked and the owner must
connect the building to the public wastewater system and comply in full with
the provisions of this chapter. No additional time extension for that building
shall be provided.
(Ord. 2021-07, passed 5-27-2021)
§ 51.24 EXCLUSION OF STORM WATER AND OTHER SURFACE WATER.
   (A)   It is the responsibility of property owners to ensure that storm
water, other surface water or unpermitted discharges do not enter a public
wastewater system.
   (B)   All persons currently served by a public wastewater system or
requesting to connect to any wastewater system, either an on-site or a
centralized system, shall provide adequate means for excluding storm water
(i.e., water from roof drains, foundation drains, or other sources of surface
water) from entering the wastewater system; such persons shall provide any
requested or required supporting documentation, and allow an agent of the
Sanitation District right of access for timely inspection to verify compliance.
   (C)   Once a building is connected to a public wastewater system, no person
shall subsequently connect any roof drain or foundation drain to the public
wastewater system or permit, allow, or cause water from any source other than
the sanitary plumbing of the building to enter the public wastewater system.
(Ord. 2021-07, passed 5-27-2021)
§ 51.25 CREATION OF A NON-TAXING SANITATION DISTRICT.
   (A)   In accordance with and pursuant to the organizational structure set
out in KRS 67.715(2) and KRS 67.083(3)(c), (h) and (r), the County Judge/
Executive seeks and the County Fiscal Court grants its approval for the County
Judge/Executive to establish a non-taxing, special purpose governmental entity
to be known as the “Clark County Sanitation District” (“Sanitation District”).
Further, the Sanitation District shall be operated so as to achieve the
environmental goals cited in KRS 220.030, and shall have all powers and duties
to reasonably, efficiently and effectively implement the provisions of and
carry out the purposes set out in KRS Chapter 220. Further, the Sanitation
District shall coordinate the county’s initial and ongoing watershed planning
effort to protect and enhance area water resources. The District shall serve as
the county’s representative in region-wide, watershed planning implementation.
   (B)   Pursuant to KRS 220.035, the County Fiscal Court reserves the power
and authority to review and approve, amend or disapprove the Sanitation
District’s annual budget. To assure timeliness in this procedure, the
Sanitation District shall submit its budget to the Judge/Executive and Fiscal
Court on or before April 1 of each year. If, after 45 days have elapsed and the
Fiscal Court has not taken action, the budget as submitted by the Sanitation
District shall be deemed approved by the Fiscal Court.
(Ord. 2021-07, passed 5-27-2021)
§ 51.26 SANITATION DISTRICT: PURPOSES, STRUCTURE AND AUTHORITY.
   (A)   Purposes. The Sanitation District is created to implement the
environmental goals cited in KRS 220.030, and to this end it:
      (1)   Shall prepare a comprehensive wastewater services plan for the
entire land area of the county where wastewater service is not available. The
Sanitation District shall engage and work cooperatively with the existing
wastewater systems, as well as with the citizens in those areas of the county
that currently do not have wastewater service in this planning process, to
assure a realistic and common sense approach to the development of on-site, as
well as centralized wastewater services, throughout the county, where and as
appropriate. The scope of the Sanitation District’s planning process shall
include the entirety of all watersheds in the county and be ongoing, in multi-
year cycles;
      (2)   Shall regulate and control the development of wastewater service
and facilities throughout the county, with the exception of the WMU service
areas of the City of Winchester, as set out in §
51.27 below;
      (3)   May own, operate and maintain wastewater facilities, or contract
with existing wastewater systems and others to provide these services,
utilizing any and all types of centralized and site-appropriate, on-site
wastewater facilities to effect the purposes of this chapter;
      (4)   Shall serve as directed by the Fiscal Court in matters relating to
the water resources of the county and shall be an active participant in the
Bluegrass Area Water Management Council.
   (B)   Structure. The Sanitation District shall:
      (1)   Be governed by a five-member board of directors, which shall
include the Judge/Executive, three citizen members and one magistrate,
appointed by the Judge/Executive and approved by the Fiscal Court. The initial
citizen members’ terms shall be: one member for two years, one member for three
years, and one member for four years respectively with the magistrate term
coinciding with the term in office. Thereafter, their terms shall be four years
in duration;
      (2)   Devise and promulgate rules, regulations and procedures affecting
all aspects of the planning and implementation processes for various types of
wastewater service in the county that may extend into neighboring counties, if
warranted and so authorized by the County Fiscal Court and the fiscal court of
the affected county;
      (3)   Work cooperatively with the County Health Department and the City
of Winchester to establish a “single point of contact” relating to centralized
and on-site wastewater regulation, coordination and development for all of the
county;
      (4)   Prepare and submit its proposed plans and projects to the County
Fiscal Court, to the County Health Department and the City of Winchester for
their review and comments. After consideration of comments or recommendations
from these bodies, the Sanitation District shall approve these plans and
projects by formal action of the board of directors and obtain any formal
approvals pursuant to statute;
      (5)   Make available plans and projects, together with its rules,
regulations and procedures, to all citizens of the county, as well as to
developers, contractors and others, upon request.
   (C)   Authority. The Sanitation District shall:
      (1)   Have the responsibility and authority to coordinate, oversee and
regulate the development of wastewater services and facilities in the county.
Incident to the purposes stated above and to enable their accomplishment, the
Sanitation District is specifically authorized to develop, acquire, own, manage
and operate wastewater facilities, and to discharge the attendant duties and
obligations associated with implementation of the environmental goals as
enumerated herein and in KRS 220.030. To this end, the Sanitation District
shall have the authority to inspect, approve, construct or arrange for the
proper de-commissioning of both on-site and centralized wastewater management
facilities, in cooperation with the County Health Department and the KDOW. Such
facilities may include, but are not limited to: drainage control, collection
mains, laterals, filters, tanks, trunk lines, lift stations, force mains,
treatment and disposal works, and all appurtenances. Further, the Sanitation
District shall have the responsibility and attendant authority to operate,
maintain, repair and replace facilities, and components thereof, by hiring
qualified employees or by contracting with qualified operators to provide such
services, and by taking any and all other action necessary for the fulfillment
of the environmental goals and purposes cited in KRS 220.030;
      (2)   Have the powers, taxing authority excluded, stated in KRS Chapter
220, including the power to sue and be sued, contract and be contracted with,
incur liabilities and obligations, secure rights-of-way and easements, issue
bonds, and to perform all acts necessary and proper for carrying out the
purposes for which the Sanitation District is created. The Sanitation District
shall have the authority to execute the powers with which it is vested as
provided in KRS 220.510.
      (3)   Have the authority to exercise the right of eminent domain, as
provided and described in KRS 220.310, subject to the approval of the County
Fiscal Court;
      (4)   Adopt and comply with the same procurement standards as the County
Fiscal Court, and conduct its business activities in accordance with approved
governmental fiscal procedures;
      (5)   Have the independent powers and duties enumerated herein except
that, unless prohibited by statue or regulation elsewhere, upon the sale or
transfer of the assets of the District, all value shall be paid to the Fiscal
Court or as directed by same;
      (6)   Be subject to and comply with the Kentucky Open Meeting and Open
Records Act as well as with KRS Chapter 65A, which regulates special purpose
governmental entities.
(Ord. 2021-07, passed 5-27-2021)
§ 51.27 SANITATION DISTRICT: BOUNDARIES.
   The Sanitation District boundaries shall be the same as those of the county;
however, the Sanitation District shall not in any way hinder, restrict or
interfere with the wastewater service areas of the City of Winchester. The
Sanitation District shall engage and work cooperatively with the municipal
wastewater system of the City of Winchester, together with the County Health
Department, in planning and implementing wastewater services improvements and
extensions beneficial to all citizens throughout the county. Where warranted,
the Sanitation District may develop extensions into areas of neighboring
counties, conditioned upon approval of the County Fiscal Court and the fiscal
court of the affected county.
(Ord. 2021-07, passed 5-27-2021)
§ 51.28 SANITATION DISTRICT: FEES, RATES AND CHARGES.
   For each type of service provided by the Sanitation District, such as
centralized wastewater collection, on-site treatment or other services, the
District shall review, devise and publish annually its schedule of rates and
charges, which shall be based on 100% of the unsubsidized cost of providing
such services, as provided in KRS 220.510. The following procedure shall guide
the Sanitation District’s rate-making process. The Sanitation District is
charged to adhere to this procedure, or any future amendments to the procedure
as may be approved by the County Fiscal Court prior to their implementation.
   (A)   The Sanitation District shall invite three customers to work with the
District’s board for a three-year period as a rate advisory committee to assist
in establishing customer rates and charges such that:
      (1)   The initial rate and all future rates to be charged by the
Sanitation District to all customers, by service type, shall be the same in
dollar amount and shall be levied so as to recover the unsubsidized cost of
providing the respective service. Rates shall be levied per 1,000 gallons of
service provided, based on metered water service to each customer, and shall be
charged monthly, by invoice showing metered amounts of flow and the total
dollar amount to be remitted for wastewater service. If the wastewater
customer’s water consumption is unmetered, the average usage of those on public
water service in the county shall be applied to the wastewater customer for
billing purposes.
      (2)   (a)   With the advice of the rate advisory committee, the
Sanitation District shall establish initial rates, which shall be based on:
            1.   The probable costs for providing such services; and
            2.   A comparison of the probable costs with the actual costs
experienced by one or more comparably sized and equipped wastewater utilities
in neighboring communities.
         (b)   The Sanitation District shall charge this rate for the period
beginning with the start of operation of the facilities required for the
service and continuing through the first full fiscal year (July 1-June 30) of
operation of that service by the Sanitation District.
      (3)   (a)   In February after the first full fiscal year (July 1-June 30)
of operation of the facilities owned by the Sanitation District created by this
chapter, and each February thereafter, the District board and rate advisory
committee shall meet to review verified, historical cost information obtained
from the Sanitation District’s records, audits, management interviews and other
such informational sources as it deems appropriate, and compile this
information into a cost study.
         (b)   The elements of the cost study shall generally conform to
industry standards and shall include but not be limited to:
            1.   Personnel, electricity, chemicals, supplies, repair materials,
vehicles and related operation costs, equipment and related operation costs,
contract labor, contracted operations, lab testing costs, and other similar,
documented costs; and
            2.   Timely retirement of any outstanding debt obligations secured
by the Sanitation District to construct and maintain required wastewater
facilities.
      (4)   The Sanitation District shall not allow charges to be calculated
into the initial cost of service reports or subsequent reports for capital
costs of replacement equipment or repair or replacement materials, or the cost
of labor required to make such repairs or replacements to newly constructed or
renovated facilities, due to the equipment and construction warranty period.
      (5)   Based on the annual cost of service analysis, the Sanitation
District board, assisted by the rate advisory committee, shall present the
proposed rates for service to the affected customers at a public hearing by
March 1 of each year, for the subsequent, July-1-through-June-30 service
period. The Sanitation District board shall respond to customer questions and
take into consideration customer comments prior to voting to establish the
final rate determination for the respective period. The Sanitation District
shall provide written notification regarding any change in rates or charges to
each customer affected.
   (B)   The Sanitation District shall comply with the public notification and
hearing requirements for rate changes, in accordance with KRS Chapter 65A.
   (C)   A customer’s failure to pay wastewater charges, fees, or penalties may
result in public water being shut off to the premises or the removal of
wastewater service lines. The Sanitation District is authorized to contract
with any public water provider to turn off and lock the water meter that serves
a property in the event of non-payment for wastewater service, fees or
penalties. The Sanitation District is further authorized to require payment of
additional charges or service fees prior to the restoration of water service to
the property.
   (D)   Any wastewater service charges that are owed to the Sanitation
District are the responsibility of the owner of the property to which service
is provided. The Sanitation District shall have the right and the fiduciary
responsibility to use any and all appropriate means to secure payment for its
services, as provided by law.
(Ord. 2021-07, passed 5-27-2021)
§ 51.29 SANITATION DISTRICT: COMMUNICATION AND COOPERATION.
   The Sanitation District shall actively and routinely coordinate all its
planning, administration and regulatory actions, as well as convey updated
information regarding its facilities, construction and operational activities,
with the County Fiscal Court, the County Health Department, and the City of
Winchester to best assure full interagency communication and integrated service
delivery to the citizens of the county.
(Ord. 2021-07, passed 5-27-2021)
§ 51.30 SANITATION DISTRICT: NO GENERAL OBLIGATION OR PERSONAL LIABILITY.
   (A)   Grants, loans, bonds or other funding assistance that may be awarded
to or secured by the Sanitation District, as authorized by this chapter, shall
not carry any responsibility to, nor in any way constitute an obligation or
indebtedness of the County Fiscal Court. In addition, no member of the Fiscal
Court, individually or collectively, shall be required or obligated to
reimburse any grant or portion of a grant, as a result of a failure on the part
of the Sanitation District; nor shall the Fiscal Court, or any member thereof,
be obligated to make any loan or bond payment on behalf of the Sanitation
District from any general or special tax revenues, within the meaning of any
constitutional provision or limitation.
   (B)   No Sanitation District director, board officer, or employee of the
Sanitation District shall be personally obligated, individually or
collectively, to make payment, or in any way be liable for any debt, bond
obligation, contract, or other fiscal obligation or expense legally incurred in
furtherance of Sanitation District purposes, except for malfeasance,
misfeasance or criminal activity.
(Ord. 2021-07, passed 5-27-2021)
§ 51.99 PENALTY.
   Any person, entity, or corporation violating any of the provisions of §§
51.20 et seq., or failing or refusing to comply with the rules and regulations
of the County Health Department or the Sanitation District relating to §§
51.20 et seq., shall be fined not less than $50 nor more than $500 for each
offense. Each day a person, entity or corporation fails or refuses to comply
with the specific provisions of §§
51.20 et seq., shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 2021-07, passed 5-27-2021)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
CHAPTER 70: STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
Section
General Provisions
   
70.01   Acceptance of streets and roads into the county road system
   
70.02   Depositing debris onto streets of unincorporated areas prohibited
   
70.03   Obstruction of intersections
   
70.04   Transporting certain materials
   
70.05   Unauthorized vehicles prohibited
   
70.06   Speed limits
   
70.07   Vegetative growth
   
70.08   Entrances
   
70.09   Gravel roads
   
70.10   Parking prohibited in fire lanes or adjacent to fire hydrants
Excavations
   
70.25   Cutting of public ways subject to regulation
   
70.26   Public liability and property damage insurance
   
70.27   Permit required; issuance; fees; repair
   
70.28   Barricades, lights, and the like; liability for damages
   
70.29   Restoration standards
Roads and Bridges
   
70.40   Public hearing required
   
70.41   Notice requirements
   
70.42   Public may testify; effect of testimony
   
70.43   Hearing to be held prior to construction
   
70.44   Separate hearing for each project not required
 
   
70.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 70.01 ACCEPTANCE OF STREETS AND ROADS INTO THE COUNTY ROAD SYSTEM.
   (A)   Prerequisite conditions. Except as provided hereafter relating to
acceptance of certain gravel roads into the county road system, the County
Fiscal Court will not accept any street and/or road for maintenance unless and
until all of the following are complete.
      (1)   Prior to the acceptance by the appropriate legislative body of
maintenance of any road and/or street, the developer or subdivider has fully
and completely reimbursed the Fiscal Court or city for any and all fees and
costs paid to the selected engineer or engineering firm charged with
construction inspection. It is the intent of these regulations that all costs
incurred by the Fiscal Court or the city for the engineering or engineering
firm shall be the responsibility of the developer and/or subdivider, and
reimbursement shall be a condition for approval of the final plat.
      (2)   The project engineer and/or developer must furnish to County Fiscal
Court and/or the County Road Supervisor a written request for a street or
roadway to be accepted into the county road system. Requirements for acceptance
are a legal description containing global position satellite coordinates for
the centerline of the street or roadway to be accepted at its beginning and
ending point, accompanied by the length and width of the street and number of
homes, vicinity map for location of street or road, a copy of the final plat,
copies of CBR tests and compaction tests, and an independent engineer’s
certifications that the road is built according to these specifications and all
applicable state and local requirements.
      (3)   Except as provided in division (A)(4) below, the developer shall be
responsible for all maintenance and repairs for a period of one year from the
date the street or road is accepted into the county road system, and, at the
expiration of a year, the County Road Supervisor shall inspect the street or
road to determine if it is in need of any repair before the final acceptance.
The Fiscal Court may require a secured warranty bond as set forth in division
(C) below under terms and conditions as may be appropriate before the
acceptance of a street or road until the repairs are completed.
      (4)   In all instances where water retention or detention has been
required, the developer shall be responsible for all maintenance and repairs on
all streets and roads protected by retention and/or detention as well as such
basins, culverts, pipes, and remedial measures to control erosion and
sedimentation as may have been constructed on non-public land to protect
streets, roads, and other property owners for a period of five years from the
date the street or road is accepted into the county road system, and, at the
expiration of five years, the County Road Supervisor shall inspect the street
or road and retention/detention measures and then determine if they are in need
of any repair before final acceptance. The Fiscal Court may require a separate
and distinct secured warranty bond under amounts, terms, and conditions as may
be appropriate before the acceptance of a street or road until the repairs are
completed.
      (5)   All streets or roadways shall be constructed in accordance with the
construction standards set forth herein.
   (B)   Construction standards.
      (1)   Utilities. All utilities shall be installed prior to the placement
of any base material and no cuts shall be permitted for any reason after
placement of base materials.
      (2)   Street width. The minimum of all streets and roads to be accepted
into the county road system, not including curb and gutter, shall be 24 feet;
provided, however, that cluster developments, crossroad communities, and rural
transitional lots shall not be required to have curbs, gutters, nor sidewalks,
but all other road construction criteria shall apply.
      (3)   Street crown. All roads or streets to be accepted into the county
road system shall be crowned such that they have one-quarter inch of crown per
each foot of street width from the center of the street to the curb edge. The
crown shall be consistent throughout and without swale.
      (4)   Application of standards. All streets or roads constructed in the
county for public use are to be constructed in accordance with the
specifications set forth herein. These standards are separate from and in
addition to the “Subdivision Regulations for Winchester/Clark County”. To the
extent that these specifications conflict with the subdivision regulations as
established by the Winchester-Clark County Joint Planning Commission, these
standards shall prevail. To the extent these standards may conflict with
standards or guidelines as established by the state’s Department of Highways,
the state regulations shall prevail.
      (5)   Sub-grade preparations. Prior to placement of rock base materials,
all utilities shall be in place and a developer shall provide to the County
Road Supervisor written test data indicating the California Bearing Ratio (CBR)
value of the prepared sub-grade to be four or greater. Any sub-grade found to
be insufficient, unstable, irregular (i.e., not properly compacted, water
saturated, or inappropriate in any way), shall be corrected prior to placement
of any base material. A CBR value of less than four will require soil
stabilization in order to achieve a corrected CBR value of four or greater.
Methods for mechanical stabilization of sub-grade soils include the following
approaches: controlling sub-grade density-moisture; undercutting poor materials
and backfilling with granular materials; proof rolling and re-rolling of the
sub-grade; using granular layers; and using granular layers reinforced with
geofabrics or geogrid. In addition, the design engineer or geo-engineering firm
may recommend an alternative field repair on-site with the approval of the
County Road Supervisor. All sub-grades must be proof-rolled with a tandem truck
loaded with a minimum of 20 tons of load to be furnished by the developer. The
County Road Supervisor or his or her designee shall witness and inspect the
proof-rolling to determine any inferior roadbed preparation. Compaction and
placement of base material shall meet the requirements of the engineered plans
and shall be placed only upon sub-grade shaped to the required section and
thoroughly compacted.
      (6)   Aggregate base material. Base material shall consist of eight
inches of limestone material, to be applied in two courses, with the first
course being four inches in thickness and consisting of No. 3 limestone, locked
with a light coat of No. 57 limestone. The placement of No. 3 limestone shall
be rolled into place and witnessed by either a competent inspector designated
by the design engineer or the County Road Supervisor. The second lift shall be
four inches in thickness and shall consist of pug milled dense grade aggregate
(DGO) limestone. All such courses shall be compacted to a density of no less
than 84% of solid volume throughout the layers prior to placement of bituminous
base for surface. Written test data accumulated by a qualified engineer
indicating specified compaction shall be supplied by the developer to the
County Road Supervisor prior to the placement of any asphalt binder or base.
      (7)   Surfacing. Minimum bituminous concrete pavement shall consist of
one, two and one-half inch course of compacted asphalt base and one, one and
one-half inch course of compacted surface asphalt. Placement and compaction
shall be performed as specified in the latest design specification of the
state’s Department of Highways. In the case of traffic levels exceeding 1,500
ADT, the engineer shall submit a design criteria based on a CBR rating of five.
Test should be performed on road location every 500 feet or fraction thereof
(e.g., for a road section less than 500 feet, one test is required; for a road
section at least 500 feet but less than 1,000 feet, two tests are required).
         (a)   Prior to applying the one and one-half inch surface, the
developer, owner, or engineer shall contact the County Road Supervisor, at
which time he or she shall inspect the base asphalt for any damage and for
cleanliness. A tack coat of SSIH, or equivalent, shall be applied between the
binder and the surface courses.
         (b)   A concrete box curb and gutter shall be the standard
requirements for public streets and shall measure 24 inches from the back of
the curb to the outer edge of the gutter. The back of the curb shall be a full
12 inches in depth. The curb shall be a full six inches in thickness for its
entire width. The gutter shall slope one inch toward the curb. These
dimensional standards may be altered, if necessary, to ensure compliance with
the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA), specifically for required ramps and
curb cuts. Sub-grade for curb and gutter shall be thoroughly compacted.
Compaction shall be either by approved type of self-propelled roller or by
approved type of mechanical tamper. Concrete shall meet requirements for Class
“A” in the state’s Department of Transportation, Bureau of Highways, Standard
Specifications, Current Edition.
         (c)   Concrete curbs shall measure 24 inches from the back of the curb
to the outer edge of the curb. The back form shall not be less than ten inches
in depth. The outer edge of the curb (next to the street paving) shall be a
full seven inches in depth and shall have a one inch slope toward the curb
except at street intersections where adjustments may be necessary to alter or
eliminate the slope for practical reasons. The form at the edge of the gutter
shall be a full seven inches in depth. Concrete shall comply with state’s
Department of Transportation standards. The concrete shall meet requirements
for Class “A” in the state’s Department of Transportation, Bureau of Highways,
Standard Specifications, Current Edition.
         (d)   Concrete lip curbs and bituminous curbs are not permitted.
         (e)   Storm water handling facilities, including, but not limited to,
inlet basins, culverts, and pipe and retention areas, shall be designed such
that the storm water drainage from the proposed construction to adjacent
properties shall not exceed the pre-development storm water discharge rate. The
finished construction shall not create any adverse effect, including, but not
limited to, erosion and flooding on the adjoining property owners. Design of
drainage facilities shall be reviewed by an engineer employed by the
Winchester/Clark County Joint Planning Commission during the preliminary
stages. Upon completion the County Road Supervisor shall inspect said project.
Acceptance is subject to the approval of the County Road Supervisor.
      (8)   Street name signs. All street name signs shall be placed by the
developer at the beginning of each street when paving begins. Street name signs
shall be provided by the developer, shall be legible, and shall be subject to
the approval of the County Road Supervisor.
      (9)   Cementitious concrete aggregate surfaces. Cementitious concrete
aggregate surfaces may be accepted into the county road system only under the
following circumstances.
         (a)   Said roadway shall be constructed according to engineering
standards deemed sufficient for the traffic load to be endured by the surface
and certified to the county by a licensed road engineer.
         (b)   At all times during construction, the roadway shall be subject
to inspection by the County Road Engineer. Any applicant shall immediately
correct all deficiencies noted by the County Road Engineer.
         (c)   Upon completion, and subject to final inspection, said roadway
shall be accompanied by a dedicated 50-foot right-of-way to be included within
the county maintained road system, however, prior to said acceptance the
applicant shall provide a commercial surety bond for a term of not less than 60
months which shall be in an amount equal to 110% of the project cost as
certified to the County Road Supervisor by the project engineer, satisfactory
to the Fiscal Court, executed by a surety company authorized to do business in
the state. Said bond shall be for the use and benefit of the county, to
guarantee that all defects, maintenance, and repairs of said roadway be
corrected without expense to the county for and during the 60-month period of
the surety bond. Certification of the project cost shall be done prior to the
final inspection by the County Road Supervisor.
         (d)   Engineering certifications and drawings required of the
developer shall be in sufficient detail to show the entire sub-grade
preparation and shall confirm that all sub-grade requirements as set forth in
this chapter have been met. Written test data accumulated by a qualified
engineer indicating specified compaction shall be supplied by the developer to
the County Road Supervisor prior to the placement of any cement surface.
Compaction and placement of base material shall meet the requirements of the
state’s Department of Transportation and shall be placed only upon sub-grade
shaped to the required typical section and thoroughly compacted. All other sub-
grade preparations shall be in compliance with this chapter.
      (10)   Access roadways. All access roadways leading to concrete plants,
asphalt plants, airports, landfills, and quarries shall be asphalt and designed
by a licensed civil engineer using the Pavement or Concrete Design Guide from
the state’s Department of Transportation. Should a design formulation not be
possible using asphalt, then a design for concrete by a licensed civil engineer
using the Pavement or Concrete Design Guide from the state’s Department of
Transportation shall be required.
   (C)   Warranty bonds. 
      (1)   Warranty bonds shall be in a format identical to form in division
(F) below, and be in an amount equal to 110% of the cost necessary to complete
all of the improvements required of the developer (including measures to
control erosion and sedimentation, when applicable).
      (2)   The bond must be secured, for the duration of its term, in one of
the following forms:
         (a)   A surety bond issued by a commercial insurance company approved
by the Fiscal Court and authorized to do business in the state;
         (b)   Certified check or cash bond;
         (c)   Negotiable United States Treasury Certificate of the kind
approved by law for securing deposits of public money; or
         (d)   A letter of credit in a form acceptable by the Fiscal Court and
from a banking institution chartered to do business in the state.
      (3)   The bond shall be executed by the developer as principal, and shall
reflect the identify and form of the surety. The bond shall be a joint and
several obligation of the principal and surety guaranteeing faithful
performance of any and all work and the construction and installation of all
improvements required of the developer together with all engineering and
inspection costs and fees incurred by the city or county, limited only by the
gross amount of the bond.
      (4)   The bond shall contain the further condition that should the
developer fail to complete all work and improvements required of him or her
within 24 consecutive calendar months of the date of approval of the final
plat, or within a mutually agreed upon extension not to exceed 12 consecutive
calendar months, the County Fiscal Court and or County Road Supervisor may, at
its option, cause all required work to be done and improvements constructed at
which time the conditions of the warranty bond shall be deemed breached and
demand shall be made on the surety for performance.
      (5)   The parties executing the bond shall be firmly bound for the
payment of all necessary cost therefor. Whenever the developer elects to
deposit cash, certified check, or approved negotiable United States Treasury
Certificates, the County Fiscal Court shall be authorized, in the event of any
default on the part of the developer or the performance of any work or
construction of any improvements for which the cash or negotiable bonds have
been deposited, to cause the required work to be done and to withdraw that
amount required for payment of all costs therefor.
      (6)   At such time that the developer has completed such improvements, or
a substantial portion thereof, as specified in the warranty bond, the developer
shall notify the Winchester/Clark County Planning Commission and or County Road
Supervisor. An inspection of the improvements shall be made and, if all are in
conformance with the requirements, the County Road Supervisor shall notify the
Fiscal Court which may then authorize the release of the relevant portion of
the bond. However, the Fiscal Court, at its option, may elect to not make a
partial release of the bond and may require completion of the project.
   (D)   Street name signs. All street name signs shall be placed by the
developer at the beginning of each new section of street when paving begins.
Street name signs shall be provided by the developer, shall be legible, and
shall be subject to the approval of the County Road Supervisor.
   (E)   Bituminous concrete on macadam base.
      (1)   The macadam base shall consist of dense graded aggregated limestone
compacted to finish depth of not less than eight inches to be laid in two four-
inch courses. The aggregate base shall be compaction. Upon this base shall be
placed a base finder course and surface course of bituminous concrete Class 1
placed as follows based on CBR (California Bearing Ratio) test results
performed at the proposed road location every 500 feet or fraction.
Table 1 - Bituminous Concrete on Macadam Base
Traffic Level
CBR A B C
Table 1 - Bituminous Concrete on Macadam Base
Traffic Level
CBR                     A                       B C
6.5 in. asphalt base    7.5 in. asphalt base    8.5 in. asphalt base
1.5 in. asphalt surface 1.5 in. asphalt surface 1.5 in. asphalt surface
Total depth = 16 in.    Total depth = 17 in.    Total depth = 18 in.
5.5 in. asphalt base    6.5 in. asphalt base    7.5 in. asphalt base
1.5 in. asphalt surface 1.5 in. asphalt surface 1.5 in. asphalt surface
Total depth = 15 in.    Total depth = 16 in.    Total depth = 17 in.
4.5 in. asphalt base    5 in. asphalt base      6.5 in. asphalt base
1.5 in. asphalt surface 1.5 in. asphalt surface 1.5 in. asphalt surface
Total depth = 14 in.    Total depth = 14.5 in.  Total depth = 16 in.
3.5 in. asphalt base    4.5 in. asphalt base    5.5 in. asphalt base
1.5 in. asphalt surface 1.5 in. asphalt surface 1.5 in. asphalt surface
Total depth = 13 in.    Total depth = 14 in.    Total depth = 15 in.
2.5 in. asphalt base    4 in. asphalt base      5 in. asphalt base
1.5 in. asphalt surface 1.5 in. asphalt surface 1.5 in. asphalt surface
Total depth = 12 in.    Total depth = 13.5 in.  Total depth = 14.5 in.
Pavement designs holding DGA thickness constant at eight in.
*All Base depth are rounded up to the nearest one-half inch. Traffic levels;
A up to 400 ADT, B up to 700 ADT, C up to 1,500 ADT; where the ADT exceeds
1,500 the engineer shall submit design criteria. Where multiple CBR values
are found the lowest value (higher number) shall be used.
 
   (F)   Bond form.
CLARK COUNTY FISCAL COURT
WARRANTY BOND FOR ROAD ACCEPTANCE
KNOWN ALL MEN BY THESE PRESENTS, That
                                                              and
                                                               , as Owner/
Developer, hereinafter called “Principal”,
and                                                                           ,
a corporation, organized and existing under the laws of the State of
                                           and authorized to do business in
Kentucky, with principal offices
at                                                                     , as
Surety, hereinafter called “Surety”, are held and firmly bound unto the Clark
County Fiscal Court as Obligee, hereinafter called “Obligee”, in the amount of
                                                       
                              (words)
Dollars ($                         .     ), for the payment of which, well and
truly to be made, we hereby       (numbers)
jointly and severally bind ourselves, our heirs, executors, administrator,
successors and assigns firmly by these presents.
WHEREAS, the Principal has tendered for approval a section of roadway, the
legal description of which is fully set forth in Attachment “A”, a copy of
which has been prepared by
                                                            under date of
                                        , and will upon acceptance into the
county road system, thereafter maintain and keep in proper repair for a period
of one (1) year subsequent to acceptance of said street or roadway, in
accordance with the ordinances of the Clark County Fiscal Court.
NOW, THEREFORE, THE CONDITIONS OF THE ABOVE OBLIGATION ARE SUCH that, if the
Principal shall well and faithfully do and perform all construction and
maintenance required by state and local law or by the Clark County Fiscal Court
and shall indemnify and save harmless the Obligee against all claims, loss, or
damage, and expenses of reconstruction or additional work required by the Clark
County Road Department to complete the street to its acceptable condition,
notice of which shall be given to the Principal, within a one (1) year from the
date of acceptance of such street or road (excepting measures for water
retention and detention which shall be five (5) years), then this obligation
shall be void. Otherwise, it shall remain in full force and effect until said
claims, loss or damage, and expenses of reconstruction or additional work as
required above, are completed. The Obligee and surety understand and agree that
the bond may extend for an indeterminate period beyond the original term upon
notice of required reconstruction or work and terminate only upon completion of
the required reconstruction or additional work or resolution of the claims,
loss, or damage which have been indemnified by this Agreement.
   If this bond is given to secure a warranty on water retention and detention,
then it shall be deemed broad enough to indemnify and save harmless the Obligee
against all claims, loss, or damage, and reconstruction of such basins,
culverts, pipes, and remedial measures to control erosion land sedimentation as
originally required upon road or street acceptance, including those remedial
measures as may have been constructed on non-public property as required to
protect streets, roads, or other property owners.
   Should the developer fail to complete all work and improvements required of
him or her within six (6) consecutive calendar months of the date of
notification of required work or within a mutually agreed upon extension not to
exceed 12 consecutive calendar months, the Clark County Fiscal Court and or
County Road Supervisor may, at its option, cause all required work to be done
and improvements constructed at which time the conditions of the performance
bond shall be deemed breached and demand shall be made on the surety for
performance.
   No right of action shall accrue on this bond to or for the use of any person
or corporation other than the Obligee named herein, its successors or assigns.
   Should any proceedings be necessary to enforce this bond, such sum as the
court may determine to be reasonable shall be allowed to Obligee as attorney’s
fee, in addition to other sums found due.
In the event that any actions or proceedings are initiated with respect to this
bond, the parties agree that the venue thereof shall be Clark County, State of
Kentucky.
   IN TESTIMONY WHEREOF, said Principal has signed this instrument at
Winchester, Kentucky, in person or by agent duly authorized, and said surety
has caused its name to be hereunto signed by its duly authorized agent.
This                                                                    day of
                                     , 20      .
                           
Principal
By                   
Title
                         
Surety
By                   
Attorney-in-Fact
(Prior Code, § 40.001) (Ord. 2002-23, passed 11-8-2002; Ord. 2002-24, passed
11-8-2002; Ord. 2002-31, passed 12-18-2002; Ord. 2003-3, passed 4-9-2003; Ord.
2003-4, passed 4-9-2003; Ord. 2004-10, passed 5-26-2004; Ord. 2004-27, passed
12-15-2004; Ord. 2006-2, passed 1-25-2006; Ord. 2019-09, passed 12-23-2019)
§ 70.02 DEPOSITING DEBRIS ONTO STREETS OF UNINCORPORATED AREAS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   All dirt, earth, or debris within the unincorporated areas of the
county, which are zoned for residential or business uses shall be kept and/or
transported in such a manner that it will not wash, drain, be tracked, spilled,
or otherwise cause to enter or be deposited upon any road, street, highway,
sewers (either sanitary or storm), or other drainage facilities within such
areas.
   (B)   Any person, firm, or corporation who displaces or relocates or causes
to be displaced or relocated any dirt, earth, or debris within the
unincorporated areas of the county which are zoned for residential or business
uses and such displacement or relocation places the dirt, earth, or debris in
such a manner that it washes, drains, or is caused to be deposited upon a road,
street, highway, sewers (either sanitary or storm), or any other drainage
facilities, shall forthwith remove and relocate the same in a safe location and
shall clean up or cause to be cleaned up any dirt, earth, or debris that has
washed, drained, or entered any road, street, highway, sewer (either storm or
sanitary), or other drainage facilities within the unincorporated areas of the
county which are zoned for residential or business uses. The provisions of this
section apply to property owners, building contractors, developers, or others
who direct or permit another person to drive a vehicle onto a building site so
as to displace or relocate any dirt, earth, or debris in a manner described in
this section.
   (C)   Whenever any person, as described in division (B) above, fails to
forthwith remove and relocate any dirt, earth, or debris and to clean up or
cause to be cleaned up the dirt, earth, or debris as required by division (B)
above, the county may proceed to remove and relocate and clean up the dirt,
earth, and debris, in which event the county may charge the responsible person
with the cost of the removal, relocation, and cleanup of the dirt, earth, or
debris, which cost shall be in addition to any criminal fines which may be
levied under §
70.99.
   (D)   During any disturbance of a surface of private property lying adjacent
to a county street or roadway, appropriate mud and debris barriers shall be
constructed to prevent any dirt, earth, or debris from entering onto the public
street or roadway.
   (E)   At no time shall any building materials, portable toilets, or any
other items of any type or description be placed on any county street or
roadway without prior written approval of the County Road Supervisor.
(Prior Code, § 40.002) (Ord. 88-14, passed 9-14-1988; Ord. 2002-31, passed 12-
18-2002; Ord. 2003-3, passed 4-9-2003) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.03 OBSTRUCTION OF INTERSECTIONS.
   It shall be unlawful for any locomotive, railroad car, or train of cars to
stop longer than 15 minutes at any one time across any public highway, street,
or road within the unincorporated areas of the county and it shall further be
unlawful for any gate in use at such public highway, street, or road crossing
within the unincorporated areas of the county to remain closed more than 15
minutes at any one time.
(Prior Code, § 40.003) (Ord. 88-13, passed 9-14-1988) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.04 TRANSPORTING CERTAIN MATERIALS.
   It shall be unlawful for the owner or operator of any vehicle carrying or
transporting garbage, waste, or refuse to operate the vehicle or permit the
vehicle to be operated upon or over any highway or public thoroughfare of this
county unless the contents in the vehicle are covered with a tarpaulin or other
covering which shall prevent the contents from escaping upon the highway or
upon private property.
(Prior Code, § 40.004) (Ord. 82-6, passed 7- -1982) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.05 UNAUTHORIZED VEHICLES PROHIBITED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to operate any unauthorized vehicle, as defined
herein, on streets or roadways previously accepted into the county road system
and defined herein as “secondary streets”.
   (B)   Provided, however, that there shall be permitted an exception to the
above prohibition such that a resident owner may for not more than one
residential construction project per calendar month permit the transport of
unauthorized vehicles across secondary streets for the purpose of delivery of
construction materials as may be necessary for the completion of said project.
Should a resident owner encounter an emergency situation that would require
further exceptions beyond the language of this section, application may be made
to the County Judge/Executive to declare an emergency exception to permit
further transport of unauthorized vehicles beyond that provided by this
section.
   (C)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      SECONDARY STREETS. Those streets and roadways providing access to
residential properties from main thoroughfares, but on which through traffic is
not permitted nor intended.
      UNAUTHORIZED VEHICLE. Cement mixers or any vehicle having more than two
axles or ground contact with other than rubber tires.
(Prior Code, § 40.005) (Ord. 2002-26, passed 11-8-2002) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.06 SPEED LIMITS.
   (A)   An operator of a motor vehicle driving in excess of the maximum speed
permitted by this section shall be guilty of a violation as defined by the
state’s Penal Code and subject to the fines provided therefor.
   (B)   The maximum speed permitted for vehicular traffic on any county
roadway having a pavement width of less than 16 feet shall be 35 mph.
   (C)   The maximum speed permitted for vehicular traffic on any roadway in a
major residential subdivision, as defined by the Winchester-Clark County
Subdivision Regulations, shall be 25 mph.
   (D)   The maximum speed permitted for vehicular traffic on all other
roadways for which a specific speed limit is not established shall be 45 mph.
(Prior Code, § 40.006) (Ord. 2002-31, passed 12-18-2002; Ord. 2003-3, passed 4-
9-2003)
§ 70.07 VEGETATIVE GROWTH.
   No vegetative planting exceeding 24 inches in height or width shall be
permitted on any public right-of-way. Any vegetative growth exceeding these
maximum dimensions shall be removed by the County Road Department.
(Prior Code, § 40.007) (Ord. 2002-31, passed 12-18-2002; Ord. 2003-3, passed 4-
9-2003)
§ 70.08 ENTRANCES.
   The following restrictions shall apply to all entrances onto a county
maintained roadway, and specifically shall apply to all major and minor
subdivisions, (including all residential tracts with 250 feet of frontage), as
defined by the subdivision regulations for the county.
   (A)   All entrance surfaces of any kind shall be constructed such that the
entrance surface shall, for a distance not less than 30 inches from the edge of
the roadway pavement, be in the same plane as the roadway pavement.
   (B)   (1)   No culverts shall be installed without prior approval of the
County Road Supervisor. Written permission shall be obtained by the property
owner prior to installation of the culvert.
      (2)   All culverts installed shall be no less than 15 inches in diameter
and 30 feet in length; provided, however, that should a greater flow passage be
necessary, the County Road Supervisor shall have the authority to require
culverts of greater dimensions.
   (C)   No mailboxes or receptacles of any kind shall be placed closer than 30
inches from the edge of the existing pavement of any county roadway.
   (D)   On county roadways where the legal maximum speed for vehicular traffic
is 35 mph, no entrance shall be permitted unless there is clear visibility for
a minimum distance of 308 feet in either direction from the anticipated
entrance.
   (E)   On county roadways where the legal maximum speed for vehicular traffic
is 45 mph, no entrance shall be permitted unless there is clear visibility for
a minimum distance of 396 feet in either direction from the anticipated
entrance.
(Prior Code, § 40.008) (Ord. 2002-31, passed 12-18-2002; Ord. 2003-3, passed 4-
9-2003)
§ 70.09 GRAVEL ROADS.
   Gravel roads that were in existence in their present state prior to 1965,
and not now a part of the county road system, may be accepted into the county
road system for maintenance, by compliance with the following procedure.
   (A)   Prerequisite conditions. No gravel road shall be eligible for
acceptance unless the following prerequisite criteria are met.
      (1)   No gravel roadway that does not serve at least four occupied
residences, and abutted by at least four separate property owners, shall be
considered for acceptance into the county road system.
      (2)   The gravel portion of the road bed to be accepted into the county
road system shall be a minimum of 16 feet in width. Additionally, if required
by the County Road Supervisor, there shall be a minimum of one foot of shoulder
on either side of the gravel roadway level with the existing gravel surface.
      (3)   All property owners abutting the road proposed to be accepted must
agree that the roadway be accepted into the county road system for maintenance.
A written certification to that affect shall accompany any application
proposing acceptance of a gravel roadway.
      (4)   All abutting property owners must execute a right-of-way easement
in a total width of 30 feet, 15 feet on each side of a line constituting the
centerline of the existing gravel roadway along the entire length of the
proposed road.
      (5)   There shall be no fences, cattle guards, buildings or other
structures, encroachments, or improvements located within the right-of-way to
be dedicated.
      (6)   All fencing along the boundary line of the right-of-way shall be at
the cost to the abutting owner. At no time shall any abutting owner graze
livestock, cattle, or other domesticated animals without fencing along the
right-of-way meeting the legal standard for livestock fencing.
      (7)   Unless the proposed roadway connects at both ends to an existing
public roadway, at the termination point of the proposed roadway a turnaround
shall be required of a size approved by the County Road Supervisor after
considering the topography and road conditions. The property owner at which
point the turnaround is to be located must grant the necessary right-of-way for
the turnaround in addition to the right-of-way referred to and required in
division (A)(4) above. The property owner shall grant a right-of-way easement
of 15 feet from the centerline of the turnaround in all directions. The
turnaround shall be constructed at the expense of the property owner.
   (B)   Maintenance provisions. All gravel roadways accepted under this
provision into the county road system shall remain in a gravel condition for at
least five years after the acceptance before they will be considered for the
application of any permanent blacktop or asphalt surface.
   (C)   Application.
      (1)   Application for acceptance into the county road system of a gravel
roadway shall be done by making a written request to the office of the County
Judge/Executive. That application shall include the following information:
         (a)   The name and address of all abutting property owners;
         (b)   The stated width of the gravel surface and road shoulders;
         (c)   GPS coordinates of the point of intersection with an existing
public roadway and the termination point;
         (d)   The width and existence of the required turnaround;
         (e)   A certification that all fences, cattle guards, buildings or
other structures, encroachments, or improvements have been removed from the
right-of-way to be dedicated; and
         (f)   The application must bear the signature of all abutting property
owners and clearly indicate their agreement that the roadway be accepted into
the county road system.
      (2)   (a)   Once the application is received by the County Judge/
Executive, it shall be referred to the County Road Supervisor for his or her
determination that the proposed roadway meets the requirements set forth
herein.
         (b)   The County Road Supervisor, once satisfied that the requirements
have been met, shall certify to the County Judge/Executive that the proposed
roadway meets all county requirements. The matter may then be placed upon the
agenda for consideration by the County Fiscal Court.
   (D)   Applicability of other county ordinances. Any gravel roadway accepted
into the county road system under the provisions of this section, shall be
subject to any and all other provisions of the code of ordinances as they
pertain to county roads.
(Ord. 2004-10, passed 5-26-2004)
§ 70.10 PARKING PROHIBITED IN FIRE LANES OR ADJACENT TO FIRE HYDRANTS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to leave, station, set, or park any
vehicle or other object within 15 feet of any fire hydrant or fire hose
connection located upon or near the rights-of-way or within any designated fire
lane within the county.
(Ord. 2003-2, passed 3-12-2003) Penalty, see §
70.99
EXCAVATIONS
§ 70.25 CUTTING OF PUBLIC WAYS SUBJECT TO REGULATION.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to dig into, disturb, or excavate any
portion of any public road, street, alley, sidewalk, or other public place in
the county outside of the city limits of Winchester except in accordance with
the provisions of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 40.100) (Ord. 78-5, passed 9-13-1978) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.26 PUBLIC LIABILITY AND PROPERTY DAMAGE INSURANCE.
   (A)   Every person engaged in the business of doing any of the work for
which a permit may be issued under the provisions of § 70.22 shall, before
engaging in any work or before applying for or securing a permit authorizing
the breaking or opening of any of the roads, streets, alleys, sidewalks, or
public ways within the unincorporated areas of the county, or before placing
any material or other obstruction in, upon, across or over the sidewalks,
streets, alleys, or public ways of the unincorporated areas of the county,
procure and maintain public liability and property damage insurance in some
good and solvent insurance company authorized to do business in the state
covering any and all claims or judgements for any injury or damage to either
person or property occurring or arising in any way or manner or connected in
any way or manner with the placing, leaving, or maintaining of any material or
other obstruction, in, upon, across, or over any of the sidewalks, streets,
alleys, or public ways of the county. The insurance shall provide:
      (1)   To pay on behalf of the insured all sums which the insured shall
become obligated to pay by reason of the liability imposed upon him or her or
it by law for damages, including damages for care and loss of services, because
of bodily injury, including death, at any time resulting therefrom, sustained
by any person or persons, caused by accident and arising out of the performance
of any of the foregoing mentioned work, acts, or obligations; and
      (2)   To pay on behalf of the insured all sums which the insured shall
become obligated to pay by reason of the liability imposed upon him or her or
it by law for damages because of injury to or destruction of property,
including the loss of use thereof, caused by accident and arising out of the
performance of any of the foregoing work, acts, or obligations.
   (B)   The insurance shall be subject to limits of liability for bodily
injury for any one accident in an amount of not less than $10,000 for any one
person and $20,000 for two or more persons, and shall be subject to limits of
liability for property damage for any one accident in an amount of not less
than $5,000 per accident.
   (C)   Before any permit under the provisions of § 70.22 shall be issued,
there shall be filed in the office of the County Clerk a certificate signed by
the insurance company evidencing the fact the public liability and property
damage insurance hereinabove provided for has been issued and paid for by the
applicant and is in full force and effect, which certificate shall provide,
among other things, that ten days’ written notice shall be given to the County
Judge/Executive before the insurance may be canceled, altered, or terminated.
This cancellation, alteration, or termination of the insurance shall not become
effective until ten days after the same shall have been read and recorded in
the official minutes of the Fiscal Court.
(Prior Code, § 40.101) (Ord. 78-5, passed 9-13-1978)
§ 70.27 PERMIT REQUIRED; ISSUANCE; FEES; REPAIR.
   (A)   Any person desiring permission to dig into, disturb, or excavate any
public street, alley, sidewalk, or other public place of the unincorporated
areas of the county and having reasonable or sufficient cause for so doing
shall make application for such permission to the County Road Supervisor on an
appropriate printed form to be prepared and furnished by him or her for that
purpose, showing the place of the proposed excavation, the purpose thereof, and
the time when it is expected to be done.
   (B)   If in the opinion of the County Road Supervisor, the applicant has a
reasonable and sufficient cause for making the excavation, he or she will issue
a permit therefor, specifying therein a sum of money to be deposited by the
applicant, which shall be sufficient to cover the cost of restoring and
repairing the street or other place to be excavated. In lieu of requiring the
deposit of a certain sum of money for each cutting, the County Road Supervisor,
in his or her discretion, may permit an applicant to post a blanket bond to
indemnify the county for the cutting of any street, road, and the like, in lieu
of making a cash deposit for each cutting. When a blanket bond is posted, the
County Road Supervisor shall encumber the bond each time a permit is secured
and, when the cutting is properly restored, the County Road Supervisor shall
then release the encumbrance against the blanket bond.
   (C)   Any excavation of any public street or roadway shall be done in such a
manner that the surface cut must extend one foot in all directions beyond the
excavated area such that the restored roadway surface will overlap existing,
non-disturbed base material and sub-grade area. All surface restoration of
excavated areas must consist of six inches of compacted dense grade aggregate,
six inches of compacted base asphalt, and two inches of surface asphalt
compacted. All seams shall be properly sealed with rubberized hot asphalt. In
the alternative, eight inches of Class 1 concrete may be applied as a base with
an overlay of two inches of surfaced asphalt compacted. All seams shall be
properly sealed with rubberized hot asphalt.
(Prior Code, § 40.102) (Ord. 78-5, passed 9-13-1978; Ord. 2003-3, passed 4-9-
2003)
§ 70.28 BARRICADES, LIGHTS, AND THE LIKE; LIABILITY FOR DAMAGES.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of any person excavating any street or other
public place in the unincorporated areas of the county to put sufficient
barricades around the work during the day and sufficient red lights or flare
torches thereon at night to protect persons and property against danger.
   (B)   Such person shall be liable for damages which may result to any person
or property by reason of such excavation and nothing herein shall be construed
as to impute liability to the county for any such damage or to impose upon the
county the duty of guarding and protecting persons and property from injury by
reason of such excavation.
(Prior Code, § 40.103) (Ord. 78-5, passed 9-13-1978) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.29 RESTORATION STANDARDS.
   After necessary work has been done, the following standards shall prevail in
repairing the road, street, or alley:
   (A)   A crushed stone backfill of dense grade shall be applied into the
repaired portion of the street; and
   (B)   After which, the pavement shall be replaced with concrete or with
bituminous pavement, depending upon the particular street or road involved, of
the same type and depth of the existing pavement.
(Prior Code, § 40.104) (Ord. 78-5, passed 9-13-1978)
ROADS AND BRIDGES
§ 70.40 PUBLIC HEARING REQUIRED.
   Before the Fiscal Court expends any state-derived tax revenues on a state
rural, secondary, county road, or municipal highway, road, street, or county or
municipal bridge, it shall first hold a public hearing in accordance with the
provisions of KRS 174.100 to take the sense of the public with regard to the
priorities for use of tax monies for road and bridge purposes.
(Prior Code, § 40.200) (Ord. 80-20, passed 1-16-1981)
§ 70.41 NOTICE REQUIREMENTS.
   Before the contemplated date of expenditure of state-derived tax revenue on
a road or bridge by the Fiscal Court, the Court shall give notice in the manner
required by KRS Chapter 424 of a public hearing to take the sense of the public
with regard to road and bridge matters within the county. The hearing shall be
held not less than seven nor more than 21 days after the first publication of
the notice and before beginning work on any project covered by this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 40.201)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see KRS 174.100(1)
§ 70.42 PUBLIC MAY TESTIFY; EFFECT OF TESTIMONY.
   (A)   At the hearing, any person may speak with regard to any proposed
project, any project which he or she feels should be built or done which has
not been proposed, priorities for completion of projects, and any other matter
related to road and bridge projects.
   (B)   The Fiscal Court shall not be bound by the testimony heard at the
hearing, but shall give due consideration to it.
(Prior Code, § 40.202)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see KRS 174.100(1), (2)
§ 70.43 HEARING TO BE HELD PRIOR TO CONSTRUCTION.
    The Fiscal Court shall not begin construction on a road or bridge project
wherein state-derived tax revenues are involved until the hearing as provided
in §
70.40 has been held.
(Prior Code, § 40.203)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see KRS 174.100(3)
§ 70.44 SEPARATE HEARING FOR EACH PROJECT NOT REQUIRED.
   This subchapter shall not be construed to require a separate hearing for
each project. A single hearing encompassing the entire road and bridge program,
provided all projects subsequently undertaken have been identified at the
hearing, shall meet the requirements of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 40.204)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see KRS 174.100(4)
§ 70.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person, firm, or corporation who shall violate the provisions of
§§
70.02 or
70.05 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction fined not less than
$50 nor more than $500 per offense. Each day the violation continues shall be
deemed a separate offense.
   (C)   Any person or corporation who shall violate the provisions of §
70.03 shall be fined not less than $100 nor more than $500 for each violation.
   (D)   Any person or operator or owner of any vehicle who violates the
provisions of §
70.04 shall be fined not less than $10 nor more than $100 for each offense.
   (E)   Any person or entity, including operators and owners of any vehicle or
other object, that violates the provisions of §
70.10 shall be fined not less than $10 nor more than $100 for each offense.
   (F)   Any person who shall dig into, disturb, or excavate any public street,
sidewalk, or other public place of the unincorporated areas of the county
without a permit to do so as provided in § 70.22 or who shall fail to place
sufficient lights or barricades on any such excavation as provided in § 70.23,
or who shall violate any of the other provisions of this chapter, shall be
subject to a fine of not less than $10 nor more than $100 or imprisonment for
not more than 30 days or both fine and imprisonment.
(Prior Code, § 40.999) (Ord. 78-5, passed 9-13-1978; Ord. 82-6, passed 7- -
1982; Ord. 88-13, passed 9-14-1988; Ord. 88-14, passed 9-14-1988; Ord. 2002-25,
passed 11-8-2002; Ord. 2003-2, passed 3-12-2003)
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   NUISANCES
      
91.   AGRICULTURAL PRACTICES
      
92.   ANIMALS
      
93.   PARKS AND RECREATION
      
94.   FAIR HOUSING
CHAPTER 90: NUISANCES
Section
Litter Control
   
90.01   Short title
   
90.02   Purpose
   
90.03   Definitions
   
90.04   Litter in general
   
90.05   Placement of litter receptacles
   
90.06   Use of receptacles
   
90.07   Damaging receptacles
   
90.08   Removal of litter
   
90.09   Sweeping litter into gutter prohibited
   
90.10   Distribution of handbills
   
90.11   Posting notices on trees and utility poles
   
90.12   Litter thrown by persons in vehicles
   
90.13   Vehicle loading
Abandoned Vehicles and Appliances
   
90.30   Definitions
   
90.31   Declaration of nuisance; exceptions
   
90.32   Liability for damages to removed vehicle
   
90.33   Compliance by removal of vehicle
   
90.34   Right of entry
   
90.35   Subchapter supplemental to other regulations
Outdoor and Open Burning
   
90.50   Applicability
   
90.51   Definitions
   
90.52   Open burning of refuse
   
90.53   Open burning of trees, logs, brush, leaves and grass clippings
   
90.54   Outdoor burning permits
   
90.55   Liability
Other Nuisances
   
90.70   General declaration and prohibition of nuisances
   
90.71   Public nuisances
 
   
90.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Abatement procedure, see §
33.218
   Administrative Hearing Board concerning nuisances, see §§
33.215 et seq.
   Animals, see
Ch. 92
   Flood Damage Prevention, see
Ch. 152
   Parks and Recreation, see
Ch. 93
   Receiving or discharging human waste and wastewater declared a public
nuisance, see §
51.20
   Subdivision Regulations, see
Ch. 153
LITTER CONTROL
§ 90.01 SHORT TITLE.
   This subchapter shall be known and may commonly be referred to as “the
Uniform Litter Control Ordinance”.
(Prior Code, § 50.001) (Ord. 80-4, passed 3-12-1980)
§ 90.02 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to accomplish litter control in the
county. This subchapter is intended to place upon all persons within the county
the duty of contributing to the public cleanliness and appearance of the county
in order to promote the public health, safety, and welfare and to protect the
economic interest of the people of the county against unsanitary and unsightly
conditions. It is further the intent of this subchapter to protect the people
against the health and safety menace and the expense incident to littering.
(Prior Code, § 50.002) (Ord. 80-4, passed 3-12-1980)
§ 90.03 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   All words used in the present tense include the future and past tense;
all words in the plural number include the singular number, and all words in
the singular number include the plural number.
   (B)   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context indicates or clearly requires a different meaning.
      AUTHORIZED PRIVATE RECEPTACLE. A litter storage and collection receptacle
as required and authorized, which shall not be deemed a nuisance by the refuse
department.
      COMMERCIAL HANDBILL. Any printed or written matter, any sample or device,
dodger, circular, leaflet, pamphlet, paper, booklet, or any other printed or
otherwise reproduced original or copies of any matter of literature that:
         (a)   Advertises for sale any merchandise, produce commodity or thing;
         (b)   Directs attention to any business or mercantile or commercial
establishment, or other activity, for the purpose of either directly or
indirectly promoting the interest thereof by sales;
         (c)   Directs attention to or advertises any meeting, theatrical
performance, exhibition, or event of any kind for which any admission fee is
charged for the purpose of private gain or profit; but the terms of this
definition shall not apply where an admission fee is charged or a collection is
taken up for the purpose of defraying the expense incident to such meeting,
theatrical performance, exhibition, or event of any kind, when either of the
same is held, given or takes place in connection with the dissemination of
information that is not restricted under the ordinary rules of decency, good
morals, public peace, safety and good order; provided that nothing contained in
this definition shall be deemed to authorize the holding, giving or taking
place of any meeting, theatrical performance, exhibition, or event of any kind,
without a license, where such license is or may be required by any law of this
state, or under any ordinance of this city and county; or
         (d)   While containing reading matter other than advertising matter,
is predominantly and essentially an advertisement, and is distributed or
circulated for advertising purposes, or for the private benefit and gain of any
person so engaged as an advertiser or a distributor.
      COUNTY. The County of Clark, Kentucky.
      DUMPOUTS. Any material emptied from a vehicle or building upon streets,
roadsides, or public places other than that emptied in appropriate litter
receptacles.
      GARBAGE. Putrescible animal and vegetable wastes resulting from the
handling, preparation, cooking and consumption of food.
      LITTER BAG. A bag, sack, or other container made of any material which is
large enough to serve as a receptacle for litter inside the vehicle or
watercraft of any person.
      LITTER RECEPTACLE. Those containers meeting the requirements of the
Department for Natural Resources and Environmental Protection.
      LITTER, GARBAGE, REFUSE, GRASS CUTTINGS, AND RUBBISH. As defined herein,
and all other waste material that, if thrown or deposited is prohibited herein,
tends to create a danger to the public health, safety and welfare.
      LITTERING. All solid wastes including, but not limited to, containers,
packages, wrappings, printed matter, or other material thrown, or deposited as
herein prohibited, but not including the wastes of the primary processes of
mining, logging, sawmilling, farming, or manufacturing.
      NEWSPAPER. Any newspaper of general circulation as defined by general
law; any newspaper duly entered with the Post Office department of the United
States, in accordance with federal statute or regulation, and any newspaper
filed and recorded with any recording officer as provided by general law; and
any periodical or current magazine regularly published with not less than four
issues per year, and sold to the public.
      NONCOMMERCIAL HANDBILL. Any printed or written matter, any sample, or
device, dodger, circular, leaflet, pamphlet, newspaper, magazine, paper,
booklet, or any other printed or otherwise reproduced originals or copies of
any matter of literature not included in the aforesaid definitions of a
COMMERCIAL HANDBILL or NEWSPAPER.
      PARK. A reservation, playground, beach, recreation center or any other
public area in the county owned or used by the county, and devoted to active or
passive recreation.
      PERSON. Any individual, firm, partnership, association, corporation,
company or organization of any kind.
      PRIVATE PREMISES. Any dwelling, house, building or other structure,
designed or used, either wholly or in part, for private residential purposes,
whether inhabited or temporarily or continuously uninhabited or vacant, and
shall include any yard, grounds, walk, driveway, porch steps, vestibule or
mailbox belonging or appurtenant to such dwelling, house, building, or other
structure.
      PRIVATE PROPERTY. Any property not publicly owned or held out for use by
the public.
      PUBLIC PLACE. Any and all streets, sidewalks, boulevards, alleys or other
public ways and any and all public parks, squares, spaces, grounds, and
buildings.
      REFUSE. All putrescible and nonputrescible solid wastes (except body
wastes), including garbage, rubbish, ashes, street cleanings, dead animals,
abandoned automobiles, and solid market and industrial wastes.
      RUBBISH.  Nonputrescible solid wastes consisting of both combustible and
noncombustible wastes, such as paper, wrappings, cigarettes, cardboard, tin
cans, yard clippings, leaves, wood, glass, bedding, crockery and similar
materials.
      SOLID WASTE. All putrescible and nonputrescible solid and semi-solid
wastes including garbage, rubbish, ashes, industrial wastes, demolition and
construction wastes, abandoned vehicles or parts thereof, and discarded
commodities.
      STREET. Is synonymous with and includes any highway, road, alley,
collector, local, arterial, or freeway within the political subdivision.
      SWEEPOUTS. Any collection of debris, resulting from clean-up operations,
that is deposited in or around a public place.
      VEHICLE. Includes every device capable of being moved upon a public
street and in, upon, or by which any person or property is or may be
transported or drawn upon a public street, excepting devices moved by human or
animal power or used exclusively upon stationary rail or tracks.
      WATERCRAFT. Any boat, ship, vessel, barge, or other floating craft.
(Prior Code, § 50.003) (Ord. 80-4, passed 3-12-1980; Ord. 2022-2, passed 3-24-
2022)
§ 90.04 LITTER IN GENERAL.
   (A)   Proper disposal of litter. No person shall throw, drop, deposit,
discard, or otherwise dispose of litter upon any public place, in the county,
or upon any private property not owned by him or her, or in any waters within
the jurisdiction of the county whether from a vehicle or otherwise except:
      (1)   When such property is designated by the state or by any of its
agencies or the county for disposal of garbage and refuse, and the person is
authorized by the proper public authority to so use the property;
      (2)   Into a litter receptacle or other container in such manner that the
litter will be prevented from being carried away or deposited by the elements
upon any part of the public place or any private property; or
      (3)   When the person is the owner or does have control or custody of the
property, or has prior consent of the owner or tenant in lawful possession of
the property, or unless the act is done under the personal direction of the
owner or tenant and provided the litter will not cause a public nuisance or be
in violation of any other state or local laws, rules, or regulations.
   (B)   Depositing litter on private property; duty to maintain private
property free of litter.
      (1)   No person shall throw or deposit litter on any occupied private
property within the county, whether owned by such person or not, except that
the owner or person in control of private property may maintain authorized
private receptacles for collection in such a manner that litter will be
prevented from being carried or deposited by the elements upon any street,
sidewalk, or other public place or upon any private property.
      (2)   The owner or person in control of any private property shall at all
times maintain the premises free of litter, provided, however that this
division shall not prohibit the storage of litter in authorized private
receptacles for collection.
   (C)   Depositing litter on vacant lot. No person shall throw or deposit
litter on any open or vacant private property within the county, whether or not
it owned by that person.
   (D)   Manner of placing litter in receptacles. Persons placing litter in
public receptacles or in authorized private receptacles shall do so in such a
manner as to prevent it from being carried or deposited by the elements upon
any street, sidewalk or other public place or upon private property.
(Prior Code, § 50.004) (Ord. 80-4, passed 3-12-1980; Ord. 2022-2, passed 3-24-
2022) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.05 PLACEMENT OF LITTER RECEPTACLES.
   (A)   Litter receptacles shall be placed in all parks, trailer parks in
respect to the service of transient habitation, gasoline service stations,
tavern parking lots, shopping centers, grocery store parking lots, marinas,
boat launching areas, beaches, bathing areas, and other public places in
numbers appropriate to need.
   (B)   It shall be the responsibility of any person owning or operating any
establishment or public place in which litter receptacles are required by this
section to procure and place and maintain the litter receptacles at his or her
own expense on the premises.
(Prior Code, § 50.005) (Ord. 80-4, passed 3-12-1980)
§ 90.06 USE OF RECEPTACLES.
   Litter receptacles placed on sidewalks and other public places shall be used
only for such litter material as persons may have for disposal while passing
along the street or other public places and in no event shall be used for the
disposal of other solid waste accumulated in residences or places of business.
(Prior Code, § 50.006) (Ord. 80-4, passed 3-12-1980)
§ 90.07 DAMAGING RECEPTACLES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to willfully damage or deface any litter
receptacle.
(Prior Code, § 50.007) (Ord. 80-4, passed 3-12-1980) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.08 REMOVAL OF LITTER.
   It shall be the responsibility of the local municipality, county, or other
agency or person owning or maintaining the same for the removal of litter from
litter receptacles placed in parks, beaches, campgrounds, and other public
places.
(Prior Code, § 50.008) (Ord. 80-4, passed 3-12-1980)
§ 90.09 SWEEPING LITTER INTO GUTTER PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person shall sweep into or deposit in any gutter, street or other
public place within the county the accumulation of litter or grass from any
building or lot or from any public or private sidewalk or driveway. Persons
owning or occupying property shall keep the sidewalk in front of their premises
free of litter.
   (B)   No person owning or occupying a place of business shall sweep into or
deposit in any gutter, street or other public place within the county the
accumulation of litter from any building or lot or from any public or private
sidewalk or driveway. Persons owning or occupying places of business within the
county shall keep the sidewalk in front of their business premises free of
litter.
   (C)   Truck loads causing litter; tires carrying dirt or other material onto
street. No person shall drive or move any truck or other vehicle within the
county unless it is so constructed or loaded as to prevent any load, contents
or litter from being blown or deposited upon any street, alley or other public
place. Nor shall any person drive or move any vehicle or truck within the
county whose wheels or tires carry onto or deposit in any street, alley or
other public place mud, dirt, sticky substances, litter or foreign matter of
any kind.
(Prior Code, § 50.009) (Ord. 80-4, passed 3-12-1980; Ord. 2022-2, passed 3-24-
2022) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.10 DISTRIBUTION OF HANDBILLS.
   (A)   Depositing on street, sidewalk, or other public place. No person shall
throw or deposit any commercial or noncommercial handbill in or upon any
sidewalk, street, or other public place within the county.
   (B)   Depositing in or on vehicles. No person shall throw or deposit any
commercial or noncommercial handbill in or upon any vehicle. Provided, however,
that it shall not be unlawful in any public place for a person to hand out or
distribute, without charge to the receiver thereof, a handbill to any occupant
of a vehicle who is willing to accept it and to be responsible for disposing of
it.
   (C)   Depositing on vacant private premises. No person shall throw or
deposit any commercial or noncommercial handbill in or upon any private
premises that are temporarily or continuously uninhabited or vacant.
   (D)   Depositing on posted private premises. No person shall throw, deposit
or distribute any commercial or noncommercial handbill upon any private
premises, if requested by anyone thereon not to do so, or if there is placed on
the premises, in a conspicuous position near the entrance thereof, a sign
bearing the words: “No Trespassing”, “No Peddlers or Agents”, “No
Advertisement”, or any similar notice, indicating in any manner that the
occupants of the premises do not desire to be molested or have their right of
privacy disturbed, or to have any such handbills left upon their premises.
   (E)   Depositing on inhabited private premises.
      (1)   Generally. No person shall throw, deposit or distribute any
commercial or noncommercial handbill in or upon inhabited private premises,
except by handing or transmitting it directly to the owner, occupant, or other
person then present in or upon such private premises. Provided, however, that,
in case of inhabited private premises that are not posted as provided in this
section, such person, unless requested by anyone upon such premises not to do
so, may place or deposit any such handbill in or upon such inhabited private
premises, if it is so placed or deposited as to secure or prevent it from being
blown or drifted about the premises or sidewalks, streets, or other places, and
except that mailboxes may not be so used when so prohibited by federal postal
law or regulations.
      (2)   Exemption for mail and newspapers. The provisions of division (E)
(1) of this section shall not apply to the distribution of mail by the United
States, nor to newspapers (as defined herein), except that newspapers shall be
placed on private property in such a manner as to prevent their being carried
or deposited by the elements upon any street, sidewalk or other public place or
upon private property.
(Prior Code, §§ 50.010, 50.011) (Ord. 80-4, passed 3-12-1980; Ord. 2022-2,
passed 3-24-2022) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.11 POSTING NOTICES ON TREES OR UTILITY POLES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to tack, place or post any signs,
cards, placards or advertisements of any character on any utility pole or tree
in the public right-of-way, on or along any of the sidewalks, streets, alleys
or public grounds in the county. The county may place traffic control signs on
utility poles after obtaining a permit from the owner of the utility pole.
   (B)   Permits for stretching streamers or placing banners and/or decorations
temporarily may be issued by the County Judge/Executive, at his or her
discretion, when in the interest of charitable, benevolent, patriotic or
municipal causes.
(Ord. 2022-2, passed 3-24-2022) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.12 LITTER THROWN BY PERSONS IN VEHICLES.
   No person, while a driver or passenger in a vehicle, shall throw or
otherwise deposit litter upon any public place or upon any private property.
(Prior Code, § 50.012) (Ord. 80-4, passed 3-12-1980) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.13 VEHICLE LOADING.
   (A)   No vehicle shall be driven or moved on any public street unless the
vehicle is so constructed or loaded as to prevent any of its load from
dropping, shifting, leaking, or otherwise escaping therefrom, except that sand
or gravel may be dropped for the purpose of securing traction, or water or
other substance may be sprinkled on a roadway surface in the cleaning or
maintaining of the roadway by public authority having jurisdiction for the same
or by persons under contract or other authorization by the public authority.
   (B)   Any person owning or operating a vehicle from which any glass or other
objects of its load have fallen or escaped, which would constitute an
obstruction or injure a vehicle or otherwise endanger travel upon the public
street shall immediately cause the public street to be cleaned of all such
glass or other objects and shall pay any cost therefor.
(Prior Code, § 50.013) (Ord. 80-4, passed 3-12-1980) Penalty, see §
90.99
ABANDONED VEHICLES AND APPLIANCES
§ 90.30 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DETACHED TRAILER. A TRAILER, defined as any wheeled vehicle without motor
power and designed to be drawn by a motor vehicle, shall not be parked detached
from a towing vehicle in any public right-of-way in the county; unless it is
being utilized for the delivery or collection of goods or equipment, or for
building repairs, service or moving operations, and then for not more than 24
hours.
   JUNKED APPLIANCE.
      (1)   Any unit, or part thereof, of machinery, furniture, or equipment,
whether functional or ornamental, and whether mechanical or powered by some
source of energy or not, including, but not limited to, stoves, refrigerators,
television sets, beds, lamps, tools, objects of art, and the like, the
condition of which is one of the following:
         (a)   Wrecked;
         (b)   Dismantled;
         (c)   Partially dismantled;
         (d)   Inoperative;
         (e)   Abandoned;
         (f)   Discarded.
      (2)   Provided, however, the term shall not apply where the unit does not
exceed 15 cubic feet, or the combination of units in the immediate proximity to
each other does not exceed 120 cubic feet.
   JUNKED MOTOR VEHICLE. Any contrivance, or parts thereof, propelled by power
and used for transportation of persons or property on public streets and
highways, the condition of which is one or more of the following:
      (1)   Wrecked;
      (2)   Dismantled;
      (3)   Partially dismantled;
      (4)   Inoperative;
      (5)   Abandoned;
      (6)   Discarded;
      (7)   Unlicensed for more than one year.
(Ord. 2022-2, passed 3-24-2022)
§ 90.31 DECLARATION OF NUISANCE; EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   The presence of any junked motor vehicle or appliance on public
property or on any private lot, tract or parcel of land or portion thereof,
occupied or unoccupied, improved or unimproved, within the county shall be
deemed a public nuisance, and shall further be considered rubbish or refuse,
and it shall be unlawful for any person to cause or maintain such a public
nuisance by wrecking, dismantling, partially dismantling, rendering inoperable,
abandoning or discarding any motor vehicle or appliance on the real property of
another or to suffer, permit or allow a junked motor vehicle or appliance to be
parked, left or maintained on his or her own real property, provided that this
provision shall not apply with regard to:
      (1)   Any motor vehicle or appliance in an enclosed building;
      (2)   Any motor vehicle or appliance on the premises of a business
enterprise operated in a lawful manner, when necessary to the operation of that
business enterprise; or
      (3)   Any motor vehicle or appliance on property occupied and used for
repair, reconditioning and remodeling of motor vehicles or appliances in
conformance with the county zoning code.
   (B)   Nothing in this section shall authorize the maintenance of a public or
private nuisance as defined under other provisions of law.
(Ord. 2022-2, passed 3-24-2022) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.32 LIABILITY FOR DAMAGES TO REMOVED VEHICLE.
   Neither the owner nor the occupant of the premises from which any junked
motor vehicles shall be removed, their servants or agents, or any department of
the county, or its agents, shall be liable for any loss or damage to the junked
motor vehicle while being removed or as a result of any subsequent sale or
other disposition.
(Ord. 2022-2, passed 3-24-2022)
§ 90.33 COMPLIANCE BY REMOVAL OF VEHICLE.
   The removal of the junked motor vehicle from the premises within seven days
after receipt of notice of violation from the county shall be considered
compliance with the provisions of this subchapter and no further action shall
be taken against the owner of the junked motor vehicle or appliance or the
owner or occupant of the premises. Written permission given to the Code
Official for the removal of the junked motor vehicle or appliance by the owner
of same or the owner or occupants of the premises on which it is located shall
be considered compliance with the provisions of this subchapter on their part,
and no further action shall be taken against the one giving such permission,
except for the collection of towing charges or hauling costs for the removal of
the nuisance.
(Ord. 2022-2, passed 3-24-2022)
§ 90.34 RIGHT OF ENTRY.
   In the enforcement of this subchapter, a Code Official, and his or her duly
authorized agents, assistants, employees, or contractors, may enter upon
private or public property to examine a junked motor vehicle or appliance, or
obtain information as to the identity of a junked motor vehicle or appliance
and of the owner thereof, and to remove or cause removal of a junked motor
vehicle or appliance declared to be a nuisance pursuant to this subchapter.
(Ord. 2022-2, passed 3-24-2022)
§ 90.35 SUBCHAPTER SUPPLEMENTAL TO OTHER REGULATIONS.
   (A)   This subchapter is not the exclusive regulation of abandoned, wrecked,
dismantled or inoperative vehicles or appliances within the county. Junked
motor vehicles and appliances are hereby declared to be a public nuisance and
unlawful as set out above in this subchapter. The provisions of this subchapter
are supplemental and in addition to all other regulatory codes, statutes and
ordinances heretofore enacted by the county, state or any other legal entity or
agency having jurisdiction.
   (B)   The provisions of this subchapter shall be deemed cumulative of the
provisions and regulations contained in this code of ordinances, save and
except that, where the provisions of this subchapter and the sections hereunder
are in conflict with the provisions elsewhere in this code, then the provisions
contained herein shall prevail. Any and all ordinances or parts of ordinances
in conflict herewith are, to the extent of such conflict, hereby repealed.
(Ord. 2022-2, passed 3-24-2022)
OUTDOOR AND OPEN BURNING
§ 90.50 APPLICABILITY.
   (A)   This subchapter does not apply to grilling or cooking food using
charcoal, wood, propane or natural gas in cooking or grilling appliances.
   (B)   This subchapter does not apply to burning for the purpose of
generating heat in a stove, furnace, fireplace or other heating device within a
building used for human or animal habitation.
   (C)   This subchapter does not apply to the use of propane, acetylene,
natural gas, gasoline or kerosene in a device intended for heating,
construction or maintenance activities.
(Ord. 2022-2, passed 3-24-2022)
§ 90.51 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CAMPFIRE. A small outdoor fire intended for recreation or cooking, but not
including a fire intended for disposal of waste wood or refuse.
   CLEAN WOOD. Natural wood that has not been painted, varnished or coated with
a similar material; has not been pressure-treated with preservatives; and does
not contain resins or glues as in plywood or other composite wood products.
   CONSTRUCTION AND DEMOLITION WASTE. Building waste materials, including, but
not limited to, waste shingles, insulation, lumber, treated wood, painted wood,
wiring, plastics, packaging, and rubble that results from construction,
remodeling, repair and demolition operations on a house, commercial or
industrial building, or other structure.
   FIRE CHIEF. The Fire Chief of the Clark County Fire Department or other
person designated by the Fire Chief.
   MUNICIPALITY. A county, township or village.
   OPEN BURNING. Kindling or maintaining a fire where the products of
combustion are emitted directly into the ambient air without passing through a
stack or a chimney. This includes burning in a burn barrel.
   OUTDOOR BURNING. Open burning or burning in an outdoor wood-fired boiler or
patio wood-burning unit.
   OUTDOOR WOOD-FIRED BOILER. A wood-fired boiler, stove or furnace that is not
located within a building intended for habitation by humans or domestic
animals.
   PATIO WOOD-BURNING UNIT. A chimney, patio warmer or other portable wood-
burning device used for outdoor recreation and/or heating.
   REFUSE. Any waste material except trees, logs, brush, stumps, leaves, grass
clippings and other vegetative matter.
(Ord. 2022-2, passed 3-24-2022)
§ 90.52 OPEN BURNING OF REFUSE.
   Open burning of refuse is prohibited.
(Ord. 2022-2, passed 3-24-2022)
§ 90.53 OPEN BURNING OF TREES, LOGS, BRUSH, LEAVES AND GRASS CLIPPINGS.
   Open burning of trees, logs, brush, leaves and grass clippings is prohibited
in the county unless:
   (A)   It is in the course of agricultural practices; and
   (B)   The County Fire Department has been notified in advance.
(Ord. 2022-2, passed 3-24-2022)
§ 90.54 OUTDOOR BURNING PERMITS.
   (A)   Land clearing burning. An outdoor burn in the county may occur
pursuant to §
90.53.
   (B)   State regulations. At no time will an outdoor burn permit conflict
with Kentucky Outdoor Burn regulation as set forth in KRS 149.630 and KRS
149.410.
   (C)   Complaints. If the smoke produced by burning covered by this
subchapter results in complaints from nearby residents or businesses, then the
burning may be ordered stopped by the Chief of the Clark County Fire Department
or his or her designee.
(Ord. 2022-2, passed 3-24-2022)
§ 90.55 LIABILITY.
   A person utilizing or maintaining an outdoor fire in the county shall be
responsible for all fire suppression costs and any other liability resulting
from damage caused by the fire.
(Ord. 2022-2, passed 3-24-2022)
OTHER NUISANCES
§ 90.70 GENERAL DECLARATION AND PROHIBITION OF NUISANCES.
   Whatever is dangerous to human health, whatever renders the ground, water,
air or food a hazard or any injury to human health, and the following specific
acts, conditions and things are, each and all of them, declared nuisances and
are prohibited and made unlawful.
(Ord. 2022-2, passed 3-24-2022)
§ 90.71 PUBLIC NUISANCES.
   (A)   Common law and statutory nuisances. In addition to what is declared in
this section to be a public nuisance, those offenses known to the common law
and state statutes as public nuisances may be treated as such and be proceeded
against as is provided in this subchapter or in accordance with any other
provision of law.
   (B)   Certain conditions declared public nuisances. It shall be unlawful for
the owner, occupant or person having control or management of any land within
the county to permit a public nuisance to develop thereon. The following
conditions are declared to be public nuisances.
      (1)   Dangerous trees or stacks adjoining street. Any tree, stack or
other object standing in such a condition that will, if it is allowed to
continue, endanger the life, limb or property of, or cause hurt, damage or
injury to, persons or property upon the public streets or public ways adjacent
thereto, by the falling thereof or of parts thereof.
      (2)   Accumulation of rubbish. An accumulation on any premises of filth,
refuse, trash, garbage, or other waste material that endangers the public
health, welfare, or safety, or materially interferes with the peaceful
enjoyment by owners or occupants of adjacent property because of the danger
that it will catch or communicate fire, attract and propagate vermin, rodents
or insects, emit odors, be unsightly, or blow rubbish into any street, sidewalk
or property of another.
      (3)   Storage of explosives. The storage of explosive material that
creates a safety hazard to other property or persons in the vicinity.
      (4)   Weeds and grass. The excessive growth of weeds, grass, or other
vegetation, except flowers or other ornamental vegetation that are well
maintained. Unless otherwise provided, EXCESSIVE shall mean growth to a height
of ten inches or more.
      (5)   Removal of vines. The property owner or occupant of property within
the county with overgrown and out-of-control vines and/or vegetation growing on
the building on the property shall remove the vines and/or vegetation to a
manageable and controlled condition, if these vines are adversely affecting the
integrity of the structure, unless the growth is meant to be ornamental.
      (6)   Open wells. The maintenance of any open, uncovered, or insecurely
covered cistern, pools, ponds, water containers, cellar, well, pit, excavation,
or vault situated upon private premises in any open or unfenced lot or place.
      (7)   Trees and shrubbery obstructing streets, sidewalks and drainage.
The growth and maintenance of trees or shrubbery that in any way interfere with
the use, construction or maintenance of roads, streets or sidewalks, cause
injury to streets or sidewalks, or constitute an obstruction to drainage.
      (8)   Swimming pools. A SWIMMING POOL is any structure intended for
swimming, recreational bathing, or wading that contains water at a depth of
over 24 inches (610 millimeters). The following requirements apply to both
aboveground and in-ground pools.
         (a)   Location.
            1.   No portion of the pool or attached filtration equipment shall
be located at a distance of less than five feet from any property line.
            2.   No portion of the pool or attached filtration equipment shall
abut another permanent structure so as to create a safety hazard.
            3.   Any overhead electrical wires must be rerouted around the
pool, coming no closer than 12 lateral feet.
         (b)   Filtration.
            1.   All pools shall be equipped with a filtration system with a
gallons-per-hour pump capacity sufficient to turn the total pool gallonage in
an 18-hour capacity.
            2.   The filtration system must incorporate as its filter media
either sand and gravel, diatomaceous earth, a fibres cartride filter, a mesh
sock-type filter or any other filter media recognized as adequate by the
National Swimming Pool Institute (NSPI).
            3.   The pool filtration system must be run sufficient number of
hours daily so as to keep the water reasonably strained.
            4.   A pool surface skimmer must be used in conjunction with the
filtration system.
            5.   The pool filtration system must have a good electrical ground,
either through the use of a three-prong grounded electrical receptacle, or a
ten-foot grounding rod properly sunk and wired.
         (c)   Chemical treatment.
            1.   The swimming pool owner must add pool chemicals of sufficient
type and quantity so as to keep the water hygienically safe.
            2.   Swimming pool chemicals must be added to the pool water via a
chemical dispenser or in a water diluted solution.
      (9)   Temporary storage containers.
         (a)   Defined. A TEMPORARY STORAGE CONTAINER is a container fabricated
for the purpose of transporting freight or goods on a truck, railroad or ship,
including cargo containers, shipping containers, storage units, storage moving
“Pods”, or other portable structures that are placed in residential zones in
the county and used for storage of items, including, but not limited to,
clothing, equipment, goods, household or other fixtures and furnishings,
materials and merchandise.
         (b)   Residential zones.
            1.   Only one temporary portable storage container shall be
permitted per parcel in all residential zoning districts in the county where a
residential unit is located, or a building permit has been issued for the
construction of a residential unit. No portable storage unit will be permitted
on a vacant parcel in a residential zone.
            2.   Temporary portable storage containers shall be allowed on an
approved driveway or in a side or rear yard for a period not to exceed 180 days
in a 12-month period in a residential zone in the county. No temporary portable
storage container shall be placed or located in a circulation aisle or lane,
fire access lane, public utility easement or public right-of-way, including
roads, streets, sidewalks and park strips.
            3.   If a building permit has been issued for the construction or
remodeling of a structure in a residential zone in the county, then the
container must be removed within ten days of the final building inspection or
occupancy.
      (10)   Exterior cleaning. Property owners or occupants of property in
residential zones in the county shall make every effort to keep the property
from becoming unsightly. If the building on the property becomes covered with
algae, mold, mildew, or other organic material, the property owner or occupant
shall make every effort to have the building cleaned of such material.
   (C)   Responsibility for nuisances created by others. For the purposes of
this subchapter, it shall not be essential that the nuisance be created or
contributed to by the owner, occupant or person having control or management of
the premises, but merely that the nuisance be created or contributed to by
licensees, invitees, guests or other persons for whose conduct the owner or
operator is responsible, or by persons for whose conduct the owner or operator
is not responsible, but of which, by the exercise of reasonable care, he or she
ought to have become aware.
      (1)   Accumulating putrid or putrescent rubbish, garbage, vegetable, or
animal or fowl refuse that emits odors, or is unsightly or a fire hazard, or is
otherwise obnoxious to the general public.
      (2)   Permitting any private storm sewer or private sanitary sewer to
become obstructed, or to be open to the air, or to overflow including grass
clippings, litter, and debris.
      (3)   Permitting storm sewers or drains to flow into the county’s
sanitary sewer.
      (4)   Connecting roof or surface drainage with or permitting it to be fed
into the sanitary sewer system.
      (5)   Stopping, impeding or permitting any stoppage or impedance in the
flow of water through storm sewers or private sanitary sewers, or diverting the
flow of natural drainage water through natural drains, whether through open
drainage ditches or enclosed drains. It shall be the duty of all property
owners in the county to keep storm sewers, private sanitary sewers and private
natural drains on or passing through their property open and in proper
operation, and to prevent stoppage or interference with proper drainage.
      (6)   Maintaining or tolerating open cisterns, pools, ponds or similar
water containers in which the accumulation of water and filth is allowed to
stagnate and to become obnoxious or detrimental to the health and welfare of
the community or county at large.
      (7)   Outside open toilets where water and sewer facilities are
available.
      (8)   Drainage from outside toilets or cesspools onto the property of
other persons, or exposure of such outside toilets to flies and mosquitoes, or
permitting the emission of odors that are obnoxious to the contiguous
community.
      (9)   Materials used to fill vacant or undeveloped land shall consist of
dirt, sand, rock, stone, gravel or similar non-organic matter only; materials
prohibited for use as fill shall include, but not be limited to: furniture,
solid waste, wood, metal, plastic, glass, rubber or rubber substitute,
appliances, debris and any other organic matter whatsoever.
      (10)   (a)   All and any dirt, earth or debris within the county shall be
kept and/or transported in such manner that it will not wash, drain, be
tracked, spilled or otherwise caused to enter and be deposited in or upon the
roads, streets, sanitary sewers, storm sewers and/or other drainage facilities
in the county.
         (b)   Any person who displaces or relocates or causes to be displaced
or relocated any dirt, earth or debris, and such displacement or relocation
places the dirt, earth or debris in such a manner that it washes, drains or is
caused to enter and be deposited in or upon the roads, streets, sanitary
sewers, storm sewers and/or other drainage facilities in the county, shall
forthwith remove and relocate the dirt, earth or debris to a safe location and
shall clean up or cause to be cleaned up any dirt, earth or debris that has
washed, drained or entered any street, storm sewer, sanitary sewer or other
drainage facility. The provisions of this section apply also to any person,
including property owners, building contractors or developers, who directs or
permits another person to drive a vehicle onto a building site so as to
displace or relocate any dirt, earth or debris in the manner described in this
section. Erosion control shall be carried out by the construction and
implementation of a silt fence around dirt, earth, rock, or debris to prevent
it from washing, draining, or being deposited onto any road, street, storm
sewer, sanitary sewer, or drainage facility.
         (c)   When such person as described in division (10)(b) above fails to
forthwith remove and relocate any dirt, earth or debris and clean up or cause
to be cleaned up the dirt, earth or debris as required by division (10)(b), the
county may proceed to remove and relocate and clean up the dirt, earth or
debris. In such case, the county may charge the responsible person with the
cost of the removal, relocation and cleanup of the dirt, earth or debris.
(Ord. 2022-2, passed 3-24-2022)
§ 90.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person violating the provisions of §
90.04 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, in addition to or in lieu of any
other penalty provided below, such person may, in the sound discretion of the
court, be directed by the court to pick up and remove from any public place or
any private property, with permission of the owner, or the person in possession
of the property, upon which it is established that the person has deposited
litter and any and all litter deposited thereof by anyone prior to the date of
the execution of the sentence.
   (C)   (1)   The schedule of penalties for violations of this chapter is as
follows.
Violation Amount
Violation                                                               Amount
Depositing commercial solid waste in sidewalk or other pedestrian       $50
receptacles
Depositing household solid waste in sidewalk or other pedestrian litter $25
receptacles
Dumpouts                                                                $300
Failure to bundle and tie loose excess household solid waste            $20
Failure to follow prescribed putout practices                           $25
Failure to provide litter receptacles                                   $50
Failure to replace defective commercial containers                      $50
Failure to replace defective household containers                       $25
Improper commercial solid waste containerization                        $50
Improper disposal of household bulk                                     $50
Improper household solid waste containerization                         $20
Inability to show proof of proper end disposition of construction/      $100
demolition
Lack of containers at loading/unloading operations                      $25
Litter by pedestrians and motorists                                     $20
Litter on private premises                                              $50
Litter on sidewalks and strips                                          $25
Littering with handbills, leaflets, and the like                        $35
Sweepouts                                                               $35
Transporting loose materials without adequate covering                  $100
Uncovered commercial containers                                         $25
Uncovered household containers                                          $10
 
      (2)   Each and every day during which a stationary violation continues,
except in cases in which a given time has been allowed for corrective action to
be taken, shall be a separate and distinct offense.
(Prior Code, § 50.999) (Ord. 2022-2, passed 3-24-2022)
CHAPTER 91: AGRICULTURAL PRACTICES
Section
Aerial Spraying of Pesticides
   
91.01   Purpose
   
91.02   Aerial application of pesticides; notice required
   
91.03   Exception
   
91.04   Wind conditions
Preservation of Farmer’s Rights
   
91.15   Customary agricultural practices
 
   
91.99   Penalty
AERIAL SPRAYING OF PESTICIDES
§ 91.01 PURPOSE.
   This chapter is designed to promote:
   (A)   The protection of health and welfare of citizens of the county by
ensuring that citizens are informed whenever the aerial spraying of pesticides
will be done in their community; and
   (B)   The protection of the health and welfare of the citizens of the
county, their persons, pets, livestock, and vegetation, by requiring that drift
from aerial spraying be confined within the boundary of the property being
treated.
(Prior Code, § 51.001) (Ord. 87-10, passed 7-15-1987)
§ 91.02 AERIAL APPLICATION OF PESTICIDES; NOTICE REQUIRED.
   (A)   Anyone who has over 40 acres under cultivation who applies pesticides
by aerial spraying to any part thereof shall give notice as provided by this
section prior to each spraying.
   (B)   Notice shall be reasonably calculated to provide actual notice to
persons living on or present upon or likely to be present upon property
contiguous to the property being sprayed.
   (C)   Notice reasonably calculated to provide actual notice means posting of
notice on the perimeter of the property to be sprayed in a manner which is
visible to the public not less than 24 hours prior to the spraying.
   (D)   Posted signs along the perimeter shall be no smaller than eight inches
by 11 inches in size and specify the word “Warning” in letters at least one
inch in height. All notices shall include the location of the property to be
sprayed, the approximate time of the spraying, the pesticides to be used, and
the telephone number of the agency to call in case of human or animal exposure
to the pesticide.
(Prior Code, § 51.002) (Ord. 87-10, passed 7-15-1987; Ord. 87-12, passed 10-14-
1987) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.03 EXCEPTION.
   Any person who has 40 acres or less shall not have to comply with the notice
provisions of §
91.02. He or she shall give written or verbal notice to adjoining landowners
not less than 24 hours prior to the aerial spraying. This notice shall include
the name of pesticides used, location of spraying, and the number to call in
case of human or animal exposure which is printed on the container.
(Prior Code, § 51.003) (Ord. 87-10, passed 7-15-1987)
§ 91.04 WIND CONDITIONS.
   The aerial spraying shall take place in such a fashion and under such wind
conditions that there will be no drift onto adjacent property not owned or
leased by the party on whom the spraying is taking place or on a public right-
of-way.
(Prior Code, § 51.004) (Ord. 87-10, passed 7-15-1987) Penalty, see §
91.99
PRESERVATION OF FARMER’S RIGHTS
§ 91.15 CUSTOMARY AGRICULTURAL PRACTICES.
   (A)   Customary agricultural practices in and around rural residential
developments, such as five acre tracts, in the agricultural zoned areas of the
county (A-1) shall not constitute a nuisance as codified in KRS 411.500 et seq.
   (B)   Customary agricultural practices include, but are not limited to, the
following:
      (1)   Plowing, spraying, mowing, irrigation, growing, and harvesting of
crops including grass, legume, hay, grain, tobacco, fruit and truck or
vegetable crops, floriculture, horticulture, growing of mushrooms, nursery and
forest planting stock orchards, forestry, and the operation of greenhouses;
      (2)   Keeping, raising, and feeding of livestock and poultry, fowl,
swine, beef, and dairy cattle, pony and horse production;
      (3)   Fur, game, fish, and wildlife farm operation;
      (4)   Farm buildings used for growing, harvesting, and preparing crop
products for market;
      (5)   Roadside stands and signs pertaining to the sale or use of the
premises or products produced thereon;
      (6)   Farm buildings for storing and protecting farm machinery and
equipment from the elements, for housing livestock and poultry, and preparing
livestock and poultry products for market;
      (7)   Construction on fences, waterways, ponds, and contours; and
      (8)   Other reasonable agricultural practices which from time to time
shall be customary.
   (C)   The practices specified in division (B) above are expected to result
in the detection of odors, noise, and dust on neighboring properties.
(Prior Code, § 51.100) (Ord. 95-12, passed 7-27-1995)
§ 91.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any violation of the provisions of §§ 51.002 or 51.004 shall result in
a fine of no less than $100 and no more than $1,000.
(Prior Code, § 51.999) (Ord. 87-10, passed 7-15-1987)
CHAPTER 92: ANIMALS
Section
General Provisions
   
92.01   Canine license required
   
92.02   License fee
   
92.03   Licensing procedure
   
92.04   Rabies vaccination required
   
92.05   Confinement required
   
92.06   Acceptable methods of confinement
   
92.07   Impoundment
   
92.08   Transfer of detained animals
   
92.09   Reclamation by owner
   
92.10   Quarantine
   
92.11   Animal cruelty
   
92.12   Harboring a vicious animal
   
92.13   Care and treatment of animals
   
92.14   Prohibited acts
   
92.15   Poisoning and the like
   
92.16   Abandoning disabled animal
   
92.17   Fights; wagering
   
92.18   When restitution required for impoundment
   
92.19   Nuisances created by animals
Running at Large
   
92.30   Confinement required
   
92.31   Nuisances prohibited
   
92.32   Impoundment
   
92.33   Transfer of detained animals
   
92.34   Reclamation by owner or custodian
   
92.35   Shelter
   
92.36   Dog wardens
Exotic Species
   
92.50   Definition
   
92.51   Keeping of exotic species prohibited; exceptions
Animal Shelter
   
92.65   Operating procedures
   
92.66   Fees
 
   
92.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 92.01 CANINE LICENSE REQUIRED.
   Any owner of a canine within the limits of the county shall apply to a
participating veterinarian or his or her agent for the appropriate license.
Proof of current rabies inoculation shall be evident by presentation of a tag
or certificate issued by a licensed veterinarian or his or her agent. A county
dog license shall be required for all canines over four months of age.
Individual dog licenses shall be renewed each year not less than 335 days nor
more than 380 days from the previous date of issue. License tags shall be
firmly affixed to a harness or collar worn by the canine at all times. If a
canine is found not to be wearing its county dog license, the owner may prove
that the canine has been licensed by providing a certificate of purchase from
the veterinarian or his or her agent. If the owner is unable to locate the
license tag, a replacement tag shall be purchased from a participating
veterinarian or his or her agent. The replacement tag shall be effective from
the date of purchase through the expiration of the original license and shall
be affixed to a harness or collar worn by the canine at all times. Canines kept
temporarily (less than 30 days) within the county for the purpose of breeding,
showing, or any other activity not prohibited by this chapter shall not require
a county dog license, but owners shall be required to provide proof of current
rabies vaccination by producing a rabies tag or certificate issued by a
licensed veterinarian or his or her agent.
(Ord. 2015-11, passed 1-13-2016)
§ 92.02 LICENSE FEE.
   The fee for each county dog license shall be $8. The fee for a replacement
license tag of a lost, unexpired license shall be $3. Owners of animals adopted
from the County Animal Shelter are exempt from this fee for 365 days following
adoption.
(Ord. 2015-11, passed 1-13-2016; Ord. 2017-28, passed 7-12-2017)
§ 92.03 LICENSING PROCEDURE.
   County dog license tags are purchased by the County Fiscal Court on behalf
of the County Animal Shelter. The Director of the County Animal Shelter will
dispense county dog license tags to licensed veterinarians practicing within
the limits of the county. Each canine that is inoculated against rabies and
whose owner’s primary address lies within the limits of the county shall
additionally be issued a county dog license and the owner shall pay the
associated fees. A canine whose owner can provide proof that the canine
received a rabies inoculation by a licensed veterinarian practicing outside the
limits of the county and whose owner’s primary address lies within the limits
of the county; a canine that is inoculated or whose owner can provide proof
that the canine has been inoculated against rabies and whose owner’s primary
address does not lie within the limits of the county but the primary residence
of the canine lies within the limits of the county shall be issued a county dog
license and the owner shall pay the associated fees. Four dollars of the
license fee or $2 of the replacement license fee shall be paid to the County
Fiscal Court for the purpose of maintaining the animal shelter, $1 of the
license fee or replacement license fee shall be retained by the issuing
veterinarian in exchange for his or her services of collecting this fee and
maintaining a record of licenses issued. Veterinarians practicing within the
limits of the county shall pay county dog license fees collected for the
preceding quarter to the County Fiscal Court on or before October 15, January
15, April 15, and July 15. A statement including the total number of license
issued, replacement license issued, and free license issued (if adopted from
the County Animal Shelter) should accompany the payment each quarter.
(Ord. 2015-11, passed 1-13-2016)
§ 92.04 RABIES VACCINATION REQUIRED.
   The owner of a domesticated animal shall have said animal vaccinated against
rabies in compliance with KRS 258.015. If the animal is a canine, the owner is
to firmly affix the rabies tag issued by the administering veterinarian to the
harness or collar that should be worn by the canine at all times. If a canine
is found to be running at large and not wearing a current rabies tag, the
canine will be assumed to have not been vaccinated against rabies and will be
admitted to the County Animal Shelter under such assumption. The owner of the
animal may provide proof at the time of reclamation that the animal has been
vaccinated against rabies by providing a certificate issued by the
administering veterinarian. If the owner cannot provide proof that the animal
has been vaccinated against rabies, the owner, upon reclamation, must purchase
a voucher for a rabies vaccination from the County Animal Shelter and agree to
redeem the voucher at a participating veterinarian within seven days of
issuance.
(Ord. 2015-11, passed 1-13-2016)
§ 92.05 CONFINEMENT REQUIRED.
   (A)   The owner, or his or her designee, of every canine within the limits
of the county shall at all times keep such canine confined on his or her
property and be in immediate control of the canine.
   (B)   A canine may be allowed outside of the property of its owner or his or
her designee if the canine is accompanied by and in immediate control of its
owner or his or her designee by way of a leash and harness or collar, or if the
canine is in a location designated for off leash animals and under voice
control of its owner.
(Ord. 2015-11, passed 1-13-2016)
§ 92.06 ACCEPTABLE METHODS OF CONFINEMENT.
   (A)   A fence constructed of chain link, plastic, wood, or other material
that is in good condition and would not be deemed hazardous to the animal;
   (B)   An invisible fence or underground fence with electrical current;
   (C)   A chain or tie out that provided that it meets the regulations set
forth in §
92.14(D).
(Ord. 2015-11, passed 1-13-2016)
§ 92.07 IMPOUNDMENT.
   Any canine found running at large within the limits of the county and not
confined in the manner prescribed in §§
92.05 and
92.06, whether licensed or unlicensed, shall be taken up by any Dog Warden and
impounded in the County Animal Shelter and there confined in a humane manner
for a period of not less than five days, inclusive of the date of seizure
unless sooner claimed by its owner or his or her designee. Thereafter, the
canine may be placed for adoption or humanely euthanized. A canine surrendered
to the County Animal Shelter by a third party, whose owner is unknown, shall be
held at the shelter in the same manner. A canine that is surrendered to the
County Animal Shelter by the owner or designee may immediately be placed for
adoption or humanely euthanized at the discretion of the Director of the County
Animal Shelter. If any animal found running at large, whose owner is unknown
and is unable to be immediately located by reasonable means is injured, the
animal will be transported to a participating veterinary clinic and may be
humanely euthanized prior to the five-day hold period if it is the
recommendation of the attending veterinarian for humane reason.
(Ord. 2015-11, passed 1-13-2016)
§ 92.08 TRANSFER OF DETAINED ANIMALS.
   The Director of the County Animal Shelter or his or her designee may
transfer ownership of any animal held at the shelter provided that the animal
has been surrendered by the owner or that the legal detention period set forth
in §
92.07 has been met; provided, that the adopter pays the fees set forth by the
County Fiscal Court and in compliance with state laws pertaining to rabies
inoculation and licensing. All animals adopted from the County Animal Shelter
must be surgically sterilized prior to transfer of ownership. If an animal
cannot be sterilized at the time of adoption due to a medical reason, the
adopter agrees to return the animal at the appropriate time as designated by
the veterinarian and provide the County Animal Shelter with proof that the
animal has been sterilized.
(Ord. 2015-11, passed 1-13-2016)
§ 92.09 RECLAMATION BY OWNER.
   The owner of an animal or his or her designee may claim an animal being held
at the County Animal Shelter within five days, inclusive of the date of intake,
provided that proof of ownership can be produced, as well as proof that the
animal has been inoculated against rabies in accordance with KRS 258.015, proof
that canines have a valid county dog license, and payment of fees set forth by
the County Fiscal Court. If proof of ownership can be provided but proof cannot
be provided that the animal has been inoculated against rabies or has a valid
county dog license, if a canine, the owner will be required to purchase a
voucher for these services that must be redeemed at a participating
veterinarian within five days. If an animal found running at large has required
medical treatment by a veterinarian, the owner will be required to reimburse
the cost of treatment to the County Animal Shelter before the animal is
released. After five days, inclusive of the date of intake, an animal can no
longer be claimed and must go through the adoption process even if the other
requirements of this subchapter are met.
(Ord. 2015-11, passed 1-13-2016)
§ 92.10 QUARANTINE.
   Any animal that is reported to have bitten a human may be picked up by a
County Dog Warden and impounded in the County Animal Shelter for the applicable
quarantine period. In the event an animal is impounded for a quarantine period,
the owner shall be responsible for a boarding fee set forth by the County
Fiscal Court and any additional fees related to rabies inoculation and county
licensing that may apply. If an animal is not claimed by the owner within five
days of release from the quarantine period, the animal will be considered
abandoned and may be humanely euthanized or adopted as deemed appropriate by
the Director of the County Animal Shelter.
(Ord. 2015-11, passed 1-13-2016)
§ 92.11 ANIMAL CRUELTY.
   (A)   Any animal involved in an alleged violation of KRS 525.125, 525.130,
or 525.135 may be confiscated and held at the County Animal Shelter in a humane
manner. Upon taking custody of an animal pursuant to KRS 525.125, 525.130, or
525.135, the responding Dog Warden shall give notice of the seized animal by
posting a notice at the location the animal was taken into custody or by
delivering notice to a person residing at the property.
   (B)   The notice shall include the date and time the animal was taken into
custody, as well as the name and phone number of the County Animal Shelter. The
animal shall remain in the custody of the County Animal Shelter until the
matter is resolved and the Director of the County Animal Shelter is notified of
the outcome in writing by the County Attorney.
         (1)   Upon a plea or a finding of guilt, the animal shall become the
property of the County Fiscal Court and may immediately be offered for adoption
or may be humanely euthanized at the discretion of the Director of the County
Animal Shelter.
         (2)   Upon a dismissal of charges or a finding of innocence, the
animal shall immediately be made available to the owner. If the animal is not
claimed by the owner within five days of the dismissal or acquittal, the animal
shall become property of the County Fiscal Court and may be placed for adoption
or humanely euthanized as deemed appropriate by the Director of the County
Animal Shelter.
(Ord. 2015-11, passed 1-13-2016)
§ 92.12 HARBORING A VICIOUS ANIMAL.
   Any animal that has bitten a person when unprovoked may be deemed vicious
if:
   (A)   The person bitten files a criminal complaint for the purpose of having
the animal declared vicious;
   (B)   If an animal bites or attempts to bite a human, the animal shall be
impounded at the County Animal Shelter for quarantine period. After an animal
has been impounded at the County Animal Shelter three times within a 365-day
period for the purpose of quarantine, the Director of the County Animal Shelter
may petition to have the animal declared a vicious animal;
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person to keep or harbor within the
limits of the county an animal known to be vicious unless it is at all times
kept on the owner’s or harborer’s property securely confined indoors or in a
securely enclosed and locked outdoor pen or shelter suitable to prevent the
entry of persons other than the owner of the animal and designed to prevent the
animal from escaping. Such pen or structure must have minimum dimensions of
five feet by ten feet, must have secure sides and must be at least seven feet
high, and have a secure top. If it has no concrete, cement, or asphalt bottom,
the sides must be imbedded into the ground no less than two feet. The enclosure
must also provide protection from the elements for the animal. A vicious animal
shall be transported to or from the indoors and the securely enclosed and
locked outdoor pen or shelter only if such animal is muzzled and restrained by
a suitable chain or leash not exceeding six feet in length and under the
control of a responsible adult. The muzzle must be made in a manner that it
will not cause injury to the animal or interfere with its vision or respiration
but will prevent the animal from biting any person or animal;
   (D)   A vicious animal shall be permitted off the owner’s or harborer’s
property only if such animal is muzzled and restrained by a substantial chain
or leash not exceeding six feet in length and under the control of a
responsible adult and only for the purposes authorized by KRS 258.235. The
muzzle must be made in a manner that will not cause injury to the animal or
interfere with its vision or respiration but must prevent the animal from
biting any person or animal;
   (E)   When any animal is required by this section to be confined, it shall
also be required that a conspicuous notice be posted at the place of
confinement of such a nature as to warn the public of the nature of the animal
therein confined; or
   (F)   No person under the age of 18 years shall be permitted to own, harbor,
or handle a vicious animal.
(Ord. 2015-11, passed 1-13-2016) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.13 CARE AND TREATMENT OF ANIMALS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADEQUATE FOOD. The provision of foodstuff that is uncontaminated, wholesome,
palatable, and of sufficient quality and nutritive value to maintain the normal
condition and weight of the animal. Food shall be provided at suitable
intervals or at least once a day, unless restricted by a veterinarian. The diet
shall be appropriate for the animal’s species, age, and condition. Food shall
be served in a receptacle, dish, or container that is physically clean and
absent of agents injurious to the health of the animal.
   ADEQUATE SHADE. For dogs, one or more separate outside areas of shade, large
enough to contain all dogs at one time and to protect them from the direct rays
of the sun. A doghouse shall not constitute ADEQUATE SHADE. For all other
animals that, as determined by species, require shade, ADEQUATE SHADE means one
or more outside areas of shade large enough to protect all the animals present
from the direct rays of the sun.
   ADEQUATE SHELTER. For dogs, an appropriate, durable, enclosed, permanent
structure, or a structure manufactured to serve primarily as an outdoor shelter
for a dog, with a roof, four sides, and a floor constructed in a manner to
protect a dog’s feet and legs from injury and with dimensions appropriate for
breed and size. The shelter shall provide the dog adequate protection and
shelter from heat and cold and from the direct effect of wind, rain, and snow.
The shelter shall have a sufficient amount of clean organic bedding material
(e.g., straw, hay, or wood shavings) to keep the dog warm and dry. For all
other animals, ADEQUATE SHELTER means an appropriate structure that provides
the animal adequate protection and shelter, as determined by the animal’s
species, from heat and cold and from the direct effect of wind, rain, and snow.
   ADEQUATE WATER. Constant access to a supply of clean, fresh, drinkable
water, unless restricted by a veterinarian, which is provided in a sanitary
manner.
   VETERINARY CARE. An appropriate level of professional medical care and
treatment by a licensed veterinarian to maintain the proper health and
condition of an animal as determined by its species, breed, and age.
(Ord. 2015-11, passed 1-13-2016)
§ 92.14 PROHIBITED ACTS.
   It shall be unlawful:
   (A)   For any person within the county to unnecessarily or cruelly beat,
torture, abuse, or otherwise mistreat any horse or other animal, whether his or
her own or that of another, or to subject such an animal to any condition that
is likely to result in harm to the animal;
   (B)   For the owner or harborer of an animal to fail to provide the animal
with adequate food, water, shelter, shade, or veterinary care;
   (C)   For a dog’s housing area or enclosure to be excessively muddy or
contain standing water, due to a lack of ground cover, or be otherwise
unsanitary. A dog’s area or enclosure shall be free of objects or contaminants
which are likely to cause injury or be detrimental to the health of the dog,
including, but not limited to, rusty or jagged metal objects, broken glass, or
harmful chemical solvents or agents; and
   (D)   For the owner or harborer of a dog to use a collar or harness made of
wire, flat chain, chain with sharp edges, or chain with rusty or non-uniform
links. If attached to a tether, the collar or harness shall be properly fitting
and not primarily metal or choke-type. The tether attached to a collar or
harness shall be of a weight and material appropriate for the breed and size of
the animal; cannot weigh more than five pounds total weight; be no less than 12
feet in length; and have swivels at both ends. A person shall not wrap a tether
directly around a dog’s neck. An area where a dog is tethered shall be free of
objects which could become tangled in the tether. The tether shall be secured
to a fixed immobile point that allows freedom of movement while withstanding
the force necessary to restrain the dog.
(Ord. 2015-11, passed 1-13-2016) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.15 POISONING AND THE LIKE.
   No person shall unlawfully kill, disfigure, maim, poison, or attempt to
administer poison to any animal.
(Ord. 2015-11, passed 1-13-2016) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.16 ABANDONING DISABLED ANIMAL.
   No person shall leave or cause to be left any wounded, diseased, or infirm
animal on a street, alley, lot, or commons to die a lingering death
(Ord. 10-99, passed 1-28-1999; Ord. 2015-11, passed 1-13-2016) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.17 FIGHTS; WAGERING.
   Intentionally causing or instigating the fighting of animals or fowl in the
county is hereby prohibited.
(Ord. 2015-11, passed 1-13-2016) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.18 WHEN RESTITUTION REQUIRED FOR IMPOUNDMENT.
   Animal control officers may seize and impound any animal or fowl which is
the subject of a violation of the provisions of §§
92.14 to
92.17. In addition to any other penalties provided in this chapter, any person
violating the provisions of §§
92.14 to
92.17 shall be subject to an order of restitution for the actual costs incurred
in seizing, impounding, and confining the animal or fowl.
(Ord. 2015-11, passed 1-13-2016)
§ 92.19 NUISANCES CREATED BY ANIMALS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the owner or harborer of an animal to permit:
      (1)   Any animal to attack, chase, or snap at pedestrians or passersby;
      (2)   The accumulation of animal excrement so as to cause unsightly
litter or fouling of the air by odor and thereby create an unreasonable
annoyance or discomfort to neighbors or others in close proximity to the
premises where the animal is kept or harbored; or
      (3)   Unsanitary conditions in enclosures or surroundings where the
animal is kept or harbored.
   (B)   Any animal which is the subject of any violation of this section may
be impounded as set forth in §
92.07.
(Ord. 2015-11, passed 1-13-2016) Penalty, see §
92.99
RUNNING AT LARGE
§ 92.30 CONFINEMENT REQUIRED.
   The owner, custodian, possessor, or harborer of every dog in the county
shall at all times keep such dog either:
   (A)   Confined on his or her own premises;
   (B)   Firmly secured by means of collar or chain and leash or other device
so that it cannot stray from the premises on which it is secured or from its
owners custody; or
   (C)   Be in the immediate control of its owner, custodian, or possessor,
and/or engaged in a hunt and under control of its owner, custodian, or
possessor.
(Prior Code, § 53.025) (Ord. 2001-13, passed 11-14-2001)
§ 92.31 NUISANCES PROHIBITED.
   Any person, firm, or corporation who shall own, keep, have in his or her
possession, or harbor any dog which, by frequent or habitual unprovoked
howling, yelping, or barking, shall cause a nuisance by creating a serious
annoyance or disturbance to a person or persons of ordinary sensibilities in
the neighborhood shall be fined not more than $20 for each offense which occurs
at least one day after a warning notice from the police or sheriff. A separate
offense shall be deemed committed on each calendar day during or on which a
violation occurs or continues after notice from the police or sheriff. After
notice is given, no further warning notice need be given for 12 consecutive
months.
(Prior Code, § 53.026) (Ord. 2001-13, passed 11-14-2001)
§ 92.32 IMPOUNDMENT.
   Any dog found running at large within the county not confined in the manner
prescribed in §
92.30, whether licensed or unlicensed, shall be taken up by any Dog Warden and
impounded in the shelter designated as the County Animal Shelter and there
confined in a humane manner for a period of not less than seven days, exclusive
of the date of seizure unless sooner claimed by the owner, custodian, or person
entitled to possession thereof, and may thereafter be destroyed in a humane
manner if not otherwise claimed or sold.
(Prior Code, § 53.027) (Ord. 2001-13, passed 11-14-2001)
§ 92.33 TRANSFER OF DETAINED ANIMALS.
   Any Dog Warden may sell and transfer title to any dog held after the legal
detention period provided in §
92.32 has expired and the animal has not been claimed by its owner, custodian,
or other person entitled to possession thereof; provided, however, that the
person to whom title is being transferred licenses such dog according to state
law, secures and pays for a rabies inoculation for such dog, pays the pick-up
fee payable to the County Dog Warden, and pays the reasonable boarding charges
levied by the animal shelter.
(Prior Code, § 53.028) (Ord. 2001-13, passed 11-14-2001)
§ 92.34 RECLAMATION BY OWNER OR CUSTODIAN.
   Any owner, custodian, or other person entitled to possession of the dog
under §
92.33 may claim such dog upon proof that the dog has been or is licensed
according to state law; proof that the dog has been inoculated against rabies,
payment of board charges levied by the County Animal Shelter, and payment to
the County Dog Warden a pick-up fee of $5.
(Prior Code, § 53.029) (Ord. 2001-13, passed 11-14-2001)
§ 92.35 SHELTER.
   The animal shelter operated by the County Dog Warden is hereby designated as
the County Animal Shelter for the purposes of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 53.030) (Ord. 2001-13, passed 11-14-2001)
§ 92.36 DOG WARDENS.
   All members of the Police Department and all sheriffs and deputies of the
county and the County Dog Warden are hereby designated Dog Wardens for purposes
of this chapter, in addition to any full-time City Dog Warden who may be
hereafter employed by the city pursuant to ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 53.031) (Ord. 2001-13, passed 11-14-2001)
EXOTIC SPECIES
§ 92.50 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context indicates or clearly requires a different meaning.
   EXOTIC SPECIES. All bears, lions, tigers, cougars, leopards, cheetahs,
jaguars, wolverines, and other predacious omnivore or carnivores in excess of
35 pounds, excluding canines, and shall also include all those species as set
forth in 301 KAR 2:082, §§ 2 and 3(2)c as presently stated or hereafter
admitted to include.
(Prior Code, § 53.100) (Ord. 99-8, passed 6-23-1999)
§ 92.51 KEEPING OF EXOTIC SPECIES PROHIBITED; EXCEPTIONS.
   The keeping of exotic species as defined in §
92.50 within any area of the county is hereby prohibited and declared to be
unlawful. This section shall not apply to any zoological garden accredited by
the American Association of Zoological Parks and Aquariums, appropriately
licensed theatrical exhibits, carnivals or circuses, any authorized wildlife
rehabilitator or licensed veterinary hospital for purposes of treating injured
animals, or any federally licensed research institution.
(Prior Code, § 53.101) (Ord. 99-8, passed 6-23-1999) Penalty, see §
92.99
ANIMAL SHELTER
§ 92.65 OPERATING PROCEDURES.
   The revised operating procedures for the County Animal Shelter, copies of
which are on file in the office of the County Clerk, is adopted and
incorporated as part of this code of ordinances as fully as if set out at
length herein.
(Ord. 2003-10, passed 11-25-2003; Ord. 2005-13, passed 7-28-2005; Ord. 2007-26,
passed 11-28-2007; Ord. 2017-29, passed 7-12-2017)
§ 92.66 FEES.
   (A)   Standard claim fee:
      (1)   First time: $40;
      (2)   Second time: $80; and
      (3)   Third or subsequent time: $150.
   (B)   Any call outside of normal business hours requires that a county
animal shelter designee take possession of an animal. An additional $25 fee may
be applied at the time of claim.
   (C)   Microchip at claim (optional): add $15.
   (D)   If owner cannot provide proof of current rabies: add $10.
   (E)   If animal is over six months of age and intact (not spayed or
neutered): add $25.
   (F)   If animal is a female, visibly in heat: add $50.
   (G)   If an animal is claimed for a second time and the owner has failed to
comply with vaccination and licensing ordinances, all fees are doubled and
another voucher must be purchased before the animal can be claimed.
   (H)   Rabies voucher: Owners must provide proof of current rabies
vaccination and county license. If the animal does not have a valid rabies
vaccination and/or county license, the owner must purchase a voucher for these
services at the time of claim. The voucher must be redeemed within seven days
at the Boonesboro Animal Clinic. The price of the voucher is set by the
veterinary clinic in accordance with their standard pricing. When a voucher is
redeemed, the county animal shelter will be billed for that service.
   (I)   Quarantine services: If an animal is to be quarantined at the county
animal shelter, the owner must pay a $10 housing fee per day for the ten-day
quarantine. Additionally, the owner must pay $10 per day the animal remains at
the shelter past the quarantine period, up to five days. If the dog remains at
the shelter more than five days past the quarantine period, the animal is
considered abandoned and becomes property of the county animal shelter.
(Ord. passed - - )
§ 92.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person violating the provisions of §
92.01 shall, upon conviction, be punished by a fine not to exceed $100. Each
day’s continuance of any such violation shall be a separate offense.
   (C)   Any owner, custodian, possessor, or harborer of any dog who violates §
92.05 shall, upon conviction, be fined not less than $5 nor more than $25 for
each offense.
   (D)   Any person who violates §
92.14 shall be fined not less than $100 nor more than $500 or be imprisoned for
a term not to exceed 12 months, or both, for each act, which shall constitute a
separate offense.
   (E)   Any person who violates §
92.19 shall be punished by a fine of not less than $25 nor more than $500 for a
first offense; not less than $50 nor more than $500 for a second offense in a
12-month period; not less than $100 nor more than $500 for a third offense in a
12-month period; and not less than $200 nor more than $500 for a fourth and
each subsequent offense in a 12-month period. Each day’s continuance of any
such violation shall be a separate offense.
   (F)   Any person who violates the provisions of §
92.51 shall be fined not less than $50, nor more than $200 for the first
offense; not less than $100, nor more than $300 for the second offense; and not
less than $300, nor more than $500 for the third or any subsequent offense.
Each day a violation continues shall be deemed a separate offense.
   (G)   If any person in the county shall unlawfully kill, disfigure, maim,
poison, or attempt to administer poison to any animal, whether his or her own
or that of another, he or she shall be fined not less than $100 nor more than
$500 or imprisonment for a term not to exceed 12 months, or both, for each act
which shall be a separate offense.
   (H)   Any person who shall leave or cause to be left any wounded, diseased,
or infirm animal on a street, alley, lot, or commons to die a lingering death
shall be subject to a fine of not less than $100 nor more than $500 or
imprisonment for a term not to exceed 12 months, or both, for each act which
shall be a separate offense.
   (I)   Any person who shall be present at and abet or encourage any such
fights and any person who shall bet any money or other thing of value upon the
results of any such fight shall, upon conviction, be subject to a fine of not
less than $100 nor more than $500 or imprisonment for a term not to exceed 12
months, or both, for each act which shall be a separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 53.999) (Ord. 97-10, passed 7-23-1997; Ord. 10-99, passed 1-28-
1999; Ord. 99-8, passed 6-23-1999; Ord. 2001-13, passed 11-14-2001; Ord. 2015-
11, passed 1-13-2016)
CHAPTER 93: PARKS AND RECREATION
Section
   
93.01   Hours that parks are open to the public
   
93.02   Prohibited conduct
 
   
93.99   Penalty
§ 93.01 HOURS THAT PARKS ARE OPEN TO THE PUBLIC.
   Parks are open for public use from: December to February 5:00 a.m. to 6:00
p.m.; March to May 5:00 a.m. to 8:00 p.m.; June to August 5:00 a.m. to 10:00
p.m.; and September to November 5:00 a.m. to 8:00 p.m.
(Ord. 2018-07, passed 4-17-2018)
§ 93.02 PROHIBITED CONDUCT.
   The following actions are prohibited unless authorized by the Parks and
Recreation Board. No person shall:
   (A)   Engage in the use of profanity;
   (B)   Possess any alcoholic beverages or illegal drugs in any park or
recreational facility;
   (C)   Engage in gambling of any form in park areas or buildings;
   (D)   Engage in an amusement for gain or for which a charge is made without
the consent of the Parks and Recreation Board. Such amusement must be conducted
in accordance with any ordinance pertaining hereto;
   (E)   Skate, skateboard, rollerblade, or sleigh ride in any area other than
those designated for these activities;
   (F)   Drive or park any motor vehicle (car, truck, motorbike, minibike, golf
cart, and the like) except on a street, driveway, or parking lot in any park;
or park or leave any such vehicle in any place other than one established for
public parking;
   (G)   Bring animals into any park or onto any park facility unless in a
designated area;
   (H)   Vend, sell, peddle, or offer for sale any commodity or article within
any park or park facility;
   (I)   Paste, glue, tack, or otherwise post any sign, plaque, advertisement,
or inscription whatsoever, nor shall any person erect or cause to be erected
any sign whatsoever on any pole, building, fence, or other structure within the
parks system;
   (J)   Fail to clean up all debris and extinguish fires in park areas;
   (K)   Engage in archery or possess or discharge any fireworks or air weapon
within any park;
   (L)   Enter upon or remain in any park areas at a time other than during
those hours which the Parks and Recreataion Board specified that the facilities
are open for public use;
   (M)   Use any developed baseball fields or baseball facilities located at
Lykins Park. These are restricted to use by organized youth leagues and
activities;
   (N)   Create excessive noise by use of a public address system, radios, or
musical instruments with amplifiers;
   (O)   Use any fields or facilities at the Kroger Youth Soccer Complex. These
are restricted to use by organized youth leagues and activities; and/or
   (P)   Engage in an aggressive, abusive, threatening, or destructive behavior
toward another person or facility property.
(Ord. 2018-07, passed 4-17-2018; Ord. 2021-5, passed 5-12-2021) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Penalties for violations occurring within a calendar year:
      (1)   First offense: $25 fine;
      (2)   Second offense: $50 fine;
      (3)   Third offense: $100 fine; and
      (4)   A $250 fine may be given for any further offenses.
   (B)   The penalties set forth herein are distinct and separate from any
other charges and penalties which may be imposed under the state and other
applicable law and ordinances.
(Ord. 2018-07, passed 4-17-2018)
CHAPTER 94: FAIR HOUSING
Section
   
94.01   Policy
   
94.02   Definitions
   
94.03   Unlawful practice
   
94.04   Discrimination in the sale or rental of housing
   
94.05   Discrimination in the financing of housing
   
94.06   Discrimination in the provision of brokerage services
   
94.07   Exemption
   
94.08   Administration
   
94.09   Education and conciliation
   
94.10   Enforcement
   
94.11   Investigations; providing evidence
   
94.12   Interference, coercion, or intimidation
   
94.13   Prevention of intimidation in fair housing cases
 
   
94.99   Penalty
§ 94.01 POLICY.
   It is the policy of the County Fiscal Court (hereinafter referred to as
“LPA”) to provide, within constitutional limitations, for fair housing
throughout the target area.
(Ord. 2005-3, passed 2-9-2005)
§ 94.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DISCRIMINATORY HOUSING PRACTICE. An act that is unlawful under §§
94.04,
94.05, and
94.06 of this chapter.
   DWELLING. Any building, structure, or portion thereof which is occupied as,
or designed or intended for occupancy, a residence by one or more families, and
any vacant land which is offered for sale or lease for the construction or
location thereon of any such building, structure, or portion thereof.
   FAMILY. Includes a single individual.
   PERSON. Includes one or more individuals, corporations, partnerships,
associates, labor organizations, legal representatives, mutual companies,
joint-stock companies, trusts, unincorporated organizations, trustees, trustees
in bankruptcy, receivers, and fiduciaries.
   TO RENT. Includes to lease to sublease, to let, and otherwise to grant for a
consideration the right to occupy the premise owned by the occupant.
(Ord. 2005-3, passed 2-9-2005)
§ 94.03 UNLAWFUL PRACTICE.
   (A)   It will be considered an unlawful practice to engage in discrimination
in the sale or rental of any dwelling except as exempted by division (B) below.
   (B)   Nothing in §
94.04 shall apply to:
      (1)   Any single-family house sold or rented by an owner; provided, that
such private individual owner does not own more than three single-family houses
at any one time; provided further, that in the case of the sale of any such
single-family house by a private individual owner not residing in such house at
the time of such sale or who was to the most recent resident of one such sale
within any 24-month period; provided further, that such bona fide private
individual owner does not own any interest in, nor is there owned or reserved
on his or her behalf, under any express or voluntary agreement, title to, or
any right to all or a portion of the proceeds from the sale or rental of, more
than three such single-family houses at any one time; provided further, that
the sale or rental of any such single-family house shall be exempted from the
application of this title only if such house is sold or rented:
         (a)   Without the use in any manner of the sale or rental facilities
or the sales or rental services of any real estate broker, agent, or
salesperson, or of such facilities or services of any person in the business of
selling or renting dwellings, or of any employee or agent of any such broker,
agent, salesperson, or person; and
         (b)   Without the publication, posting, or mailing, after notice of
any advertisement or written notice in violation of §
94.04(C), but nothing in this provision shall prohibit the use of attorneys,
escrow agents, abstractors, title companies, and other such professional
assistance as necessary to perfect or transfer the title.
      (2)   (a)   Rooms or units in dwellings containing living quarters
occupied or intended to be occupied by no more than four families living
independently of each other, if the owner actually maintains and occupies one
of such living quarters as his or her residence.
         (b)   For the purpose of this division (B), a person shall be deemed
to be in the business of selling or renting dwellings if:
               1.   He or she has, within the preceding 12 months, participated
as principal in three or more transactions involving the sale or rental of any
dwelling or any interest therein;
               2.   Has, within the preceding 12 months, participated as agent,
other than in the sale of his or her own personal residence, in providing sales
or rental of any dwelling or any interest therein; and
               3.   He or she is the owner of any dwelling designed or intended
for occupancy by, or occupied by, five or more families.
(Ord. 2005-3, passed 2-9-2005)
§ 94.04 DISCRIMINATION IN THE SALE OR RENTAL OF HOUSING.
   As made applicable by §
94.03 and except as exempted by §§ 93.03(B) and 93.07, it shall be unlawful:
   (A)   To refuse to sell or rent after making of a bona fide offer, or to
refuse to negotiate for sale or rental of, or otherwise make unavailable or
deny, a dwelling to any person because of race, color, religion, sex, national
origin, familial status, or handicapped status;
   (B)   To discriminate against any person in the terms, conditions, or
privileges of sale or rental of a dwelling, or in the provision of services or
facilities in connection therewith, because of race, color, religion, sex,
national origin, familial status, or handicapped status;
   (C)   To make, print, or publish, or cause to be made, printed, or
published, any notice, statement, or advertisement, with respect to the sale or
rental of a dwelling that indicates any preference, limitation, or
discrimination based on race, color, religion, sex, national origin, familial
status, or handicapped status, or an intention to make any such precedence,
limitation, or discrimination; and
   (D)   To represent to any person because of race, color, religion, sex,
national origin, familial status, or handicapped status that any dwelling is
not available for inspection, sale, or rental when such dwelling is in fact so
available.
(Ord. 2005-3, passed 2-9-2005) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.05 DISCRIMINATION IN THE FINANCING OF HOUSING.
   It shall be unlawful for any bank, building and loan association, insurance
company, or other corporation, association, firm, or enterprise whose business
consists in whole or in part in the making commercial real estate loans, to
deny a loan or other financial assistance to a persons applying thereof for the
purpose of purchasing, construction, improving, repairing, or maintaining a
dwelling, or to discriminate against him or her in the fixing of the amount,
interest rate, duration, or other terms or conditions of such loan or other
person or of any loan or other financial assistance, or of the present or
prospective owners, lessees, tenants, or occupants of the dwelling of dwellings
in relation to which such loan or other financial assistance is to be made or
given; provided, that nothing contained in this section shall impair the scope
or effectiveness of the exception contained in §
94.03(B).
(Ord. 2005-3, passed 2-9-2005) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.06 DISCRIMINATION IN THE PROVISION OF BROKERAGE SERVICES.
   It shall be unlawful to deny any person access to or membership or
participation in any multiple- listing service, real estate brokers
organization, or other service, organization, or facility relating to the
business of selling or renting dwellings, or to discriminate against him or her
the terms or conditions of such access, membership, or participation, on
account of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, familial statutes, or
handicapped status.
(Ord. 2005-3, passed 2-9-2005) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.07 EXEMPTION.
   Nothing in this chapter shall prohibit a religious organization,
association, or society, or any nonprofit institution or organization operated,
supervised, or controlled by or in conjunction with a religious organization,
association, or society, from limiting the sale, rental, or occupancy of
dwelling which it owns or operates for other than a commercial purpose to
persons of the same religion, or from giving preference to such persons, unless
membership in such religion is restricted on account of race, color, or
national origin. Nor shall anything in this chapter prohibit a private club not
in fact open to the public, which as an incident to its primary purpose or
purposes provided lodgings which it owns or operates for other than a
commercial purpose, from limiting the rental or occupancy of such lodgings to
its members or from giving preference to its members.
(Ord. 2005-3, passed 2-9-2005)
§ 94.08 ADMINISTRATION.
   (A)   The authority and responsibility for administering this Act shall be
in the Chairperson of the LPA.
   (B)   (1)   The Chairperson may delegate any of these functions, duties, and
powers to the state’s Human Rights Commission or to a designated employee of
the county, including functions, duties, and powers with respect to
investigation, conciliating, hearing, determining, ordering, certifying,
reporting, or otherwise acting as to any work, business, or matter under this
order.
      (2)   The Chairperson shall by rule prescribe such rights of appeal from
the decisions of his or her hearing examiners to others hearing examiners or to
the state’s Human Rights Commission, as shall be appropriate and in accordance
with the law.
   (C)   All executive departments and agencies shall administer their programs
and activities relating to housing and urban development in a manner
affirmatively to further the purposes of this chapter and shall cooperate with
the Chairperson to further such purposes.
(Ord. 2005-3, passed 2-9-2005)
§ 94.09 EDUCATION AND CONCILIATION.
   Immediately after the enactment of this order, the Chairperson shall
commence such educational and conciliatory activities as will further the
purposes of this order and his or her suggested means of implementing it, and
shall endeavor to work out programs of voluntary compliance and of enforcement.
(Ord. 2005-3, passed 2-9-2005)
§ 94.10 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Any person who claims to have been injured by a discriminatory housing
practice or who believes that he or she will be irrevocably injured by a
discriminatory housing practice that is about to occur (hereafter “person
aggrieved”) may file a complaint with the Chairperson or their designated city
employee. Complaints shall be in writing and shall contain such information and
be in such form as the Chairperson requires. Upon receipt of such a complaint,
the Chairperson shall furnish a copy of the same both to the state’s Civil
Rights Commission and to the person or persons who allegedly committed or was
about to commit the alleged discriminatory housing practice. The Chairperson
will request assistance from the state’s Civil Rights Commission in resolving
this complaint either through informal endeavors or through procedures,
conciliation, agreement, and/or enforcement per KRS 344.200 through 344.290.
The Chairperson shall act as a facilitator and will assist (when requested and/
or where appropriate) the state’s Civil Rights Commission in resolving the
complaint. Nothing said or done in the course of informal endeavors may be made
public or used as evidence in a subsequent proceeding under this chapter
without the written consent of the persons concerned.
   (B)   A complaint under division (A) above shall be filed with the state’s
Human Rights Commission within one 180 days after the alleged discriminatory
housing practice occurred. Complaints shall be in writing and shall state the
facts upon which the allegations of a discriminatory housing practice occurred.
Complaints shall be in writing and shall state the facts upon which the
allegations of a discriminatory housing practice are based. Complaints may be
reasonably and fairly amended at any time. A respondent may file an answer to
the complaint against him or her and, with the leave of the state’s Human
Rights Commission, which shall be granted whenever it would be reasonable and
fair to do so, may amend his or her answer at any time. Both complaints and
answers shall be verified.
   (C)   If within 30 days after a complaint is filed with the state’s Human
Rights Commission, the state’s Human Rights Commission has been unable to
obtain voluntary compliance with this chapter, the person aggrieved may, within
30 days thereafter, file a complaint with the Secretary of the Department of
Housing and Urban Development. The state’s Human Rights Commission will assist
in this filing.
(Ord. 2005-3, passed 2-9-2005) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.11 INVESTIGATIONS; PROVIDING EVIDENCE.
   In conducting an investigation, the state’s Human Rights Commission shall
have access at all reasonable times to premises, records, documents,
individuals, and other evidence or possible sources of evidence and may
examine, record, and copy such materials and take and report the testimony or
statements of such person as are reasonably necessary for the furtherance of
the investigation per KRS 344.200 to 344.290; provided, however, that the
state’s Human Rights Commission first complies with the provisions of the
Fourth Amendment relating to unreasonable searches and seizures. The state’s
Human Rights Commission may issue subpoenas to compel his or her access to of
the production of such materials, or the appearance of such persons, and may
issue interrogatories to a respondent, to the same extent and subject to the
same limitations as would apply if the subpoenas or interrogatories were issued
or served in aid of a civil action in the Untied States District Court for the
district in which the investigation is taking place.
(Ord. 2005-3, passed 2-9-2005)
§ 94.12 INTERFERENCE, COERCION, OR INTIMIDATION.
   It shall be unlawful to coerce, intimidate, threaten, or interfere with any
person in the exercise or enjoyment of, or on account of his or her having
exercised or enjoyed, or on account of his or her having aided or encouraged
any other person in the exercise or enjoyment of, any right granted or
protected by §§
94.03 to
94.06. This section may be enforced by appropriate civil action.
(Ord. 2005-3, passed 2-9-2005) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.13 PREVENTION OF INTIMIDATION IN FAIR HOUSING CASES.
   Whoever, whether or not acting under color of law, by force or threat of
force willfully injures, intimidates, or interferes with, or attempts to
injure, intimidate, or interfere with:
   (A)   Any person because of his or her race, color, religion, sex, national
origin, familial status, or handicapped status, and because he or she is or has
been selling, purchasing, renting, financing, occupying, or contracting or
negotiation for the sale, purchase, rental, financing, or occupation, or
facility relating to the business of selling or renting dwelling;
   (B)   Any person because he or she is or has been, in order to intimidate
such person or any other person or any class of persons from:
      (1)   Participating, without discrimination on account of race, color,
religion, sex, national origin, familial status, or handicapped status in any
of the activities, services, organizations, or facilities described in §
94.03 of this chapter; or
      (2)   Affording another person or class of persons opportunity or
protection so to participate.
(Ord. 2005-3, passed 2-9-2005) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any employee of the Chairperson who shall make public any information
in violation of §
94.10 shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof,
shall be fined not more than $1,000 or imprisoned not more than one year.
   (C)   Any person who willfully fails or neglects to attend and testify or to
answer any lawful inquiry or to produce records, documents, or other evidence,
if in his or her power to do so, in obedience to the subpoena or lawful order
of the state’s Human Rights Commission shall be fined no more than $1,000 or
imprisoned not more than one year, or both. Any person who, with intent thereby
to mislead the state’s Human Rights Commission, shall make or cause to be made
any false entry or statement of fact in any report, account, record, or other
document submitted to the state’s Human Rights Commission pursuant to his or
her subpoena or other order, or shall willfully neglect or fail to make or
cause to be made full, true and correct entries in such reports, accounts,
records, or other documents, or shall willfully mutilate, alter, or by any
means falsify any documentary evidence, shall be fined not more than $1,000 or
imprisoned no more than one year, or both.
   (D)   Any citizen because he or she is or has been, in order to discourage
such citizen or any other citizen from lawfully aiding or encouraging other
persons to participate, without discrimination on account of race, color,
religion, or national origin, in any of the activities, services,
organizations, or facilities described in §
94.03, or participating lawfully in speech or peaceful assemble opposing any
denial of the opportunity to so participate shall be fined not more than $1,000
or imprisoned not more than one year, or both; and if bodily injury results
shall be fined not more than $10,000, or imprisoned not more than ten years or
both; and if death results shall be subject to imprisonment for any term of
years or for life.
(Ord. 2005-3, passed 2-9-2005)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   OCCUPATIONAL LICENSES
      
111.   PAWNBROKERS AND PRECIOUS METAL DEALERS
      
112.   RECYCLERS
      
113.   SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESSES
      
114.   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
      
115.   CABLE TELEVISION FRANCHISE
CHAPTER 110: OCCUPATIONAL LICENSES
Section
General Provisions
   
110.01   Definitions
   
110.02   Regulation, administration, enforcement, and collection of license
fees; purpose
   
110.03   Who must obtain; basis of computation
   
110.04   Credit for occupational license fees paid to the City of Winchester
   
110.05   Exempt activities
   
110.06   Duty of employer to withhold, report, and pay license fees; records
   
110.07   Separate returns; payments, confidentiality
   
110.08   Commencement date; duration
   
110.09   Hotels, motels, and the like
Fireworks Sales
   
110.20   Definitions
   
110.21   Restrictions on fireworks retailers
   
110.22   Discharge of fireworks
Insurance Companies
   
110.35   License fee
   
110.36   Calculation of fee
   
110.37   Payment of fee
   
110.38   Documentation of collections
 
   
110.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 110.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ASSOCIATION. A partnership, limited partnership, or any other form of
unincorporated enterprise, owned by two or more persons.
   BUSINESS. An enterprise, activity, profession, or undertaking of any nature
conducted for gain or profit, whether conducted by an individual,
copartnership, association, or any other entity, but shall not include the
usual activities of boards of trade, chambers of commerce, trade associations
or unions (or other association performing the services usually performed by
trade associations or unions); community chest funds or foundations;
corporation or associations organized and operated exclusively for religious,
charitable, scientific, literary, educational, or civic purposes, for the
prevention of cruelty to children or animals; or clubs or fraternal
organizations operated exclusively for social, literary, education, or
fraternal purposes, where no part of the earnings of income or receipts of such
units, groups, or associations inures to the benefit of any private shareholder
or individual.
   CORPORATION. A corporation or joint stock association organized under the
laws of the United States, the State of Kentucky, or any other state,
territory, or foreign country or dependency.
   COUNTY. Clark County, Kentucky, including the City of Winchester and any
other community whether incorporated or not.
   DIRECTOR OF FINANCE. An official director of the occupational tax, to be
appointed by the Clark Fiscal Court.
   EMPLOYEE. Any person who renders services to another for a financial
consideration or its equivalent, under an express or implied contract, and who
is under the control and direction of the latter.
   EMPLOYER. An individual, copartnership, association, corporation,
governmental body or unit or administration or agency, or any other entity, who
or that employs five or more full-time employees on a salary, wage, commission,
or other compensation basis, regardless of whether the employer is engaged in
business as above defined, or is excluded by the terms of such definition.
   GROSS RECEIPTS. The phrase “gross receipts” and the word “compensation”,
when applied to a person employed by others, shall have the same meaning and
shall include the gross amount of all salaries, wages, commissions, bonuses, or
other money payments of any kind, or other consideration having a monetary
value, which a person receives or becomes entitled to, or is given credit for
by an employer, without deduction for withholding taxes social security
benefits, any form of insurance or retirement benefits, other deductions made
by an employer in calculating “take home pay”; provided, however, that any
traveling expenses actually incurred and paid by the employer, and wages,
salaries, or other compensation received by domestic servants employed in a
private home, shall be exempt from the operation of this order.
   LICENSEE. Any person required hereunder to file a return or to pay a license
fee under this subchapter.
   NET PROFIT. The net income from the operation of a business or enterprise
after provision for all costs and expenses incurred or enterprise after
provision for all costs and expenses incurred in the conduct thereof shall be
the same as reported for federal income tax purposes, excluding items exempted
under this section but without deduction of taxes based on income.
   NONRESIDENT. An individual, copartnership, fiduciary, association, or
corporation. Whenever the term “person” is used in any clause prescribing and
imposing a penalty in the nature of a fine or imprisonment, the word, as
applied to associations, shall mean the partners or members thereof and as
applied to corporations, the officers and directors.
   RESIDENT. An individual, copartnership, association, corporation, or other
entity domiciled or having a business in the county.
   SALES. Net sales of merchandise or of services, or of both, computed by
whatever method of accounting is authorized for federal income tax purposes.
   SALES WITHIN THE COUNTY. Includes sales of merchandise delivered to a
customer within the county or services performed within the county for a
customer.
   TRADE, OCCUPATION, OR PROFESSION. Includes any and all activities and the
rendering of any and all services of all kinds or any activity resulting in
other remuneration, or net profit or gain of any kind when applied to persons
so engaged for themselves whether the person be a resident of the county or
not.
   TREASURER. The Clark County Treasurer.
(Prior Code, § 60.001) (Ord. 86-2, passed 5-14-1986)
§ 110.02 REGULATION, ADMINISTRATION, ENFORCEMENT, AND COLLECTION OF LICENSE
FEES; PURPOSE.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the Director of Finance to collect all license
fees and deposit the same in the General Fund of the county, to be used to
defray the general expenses of the county government. The Director of Finance
shall have the power and it shall be his or her duty to make and publish such
rules and regulations as may be necessary to administer this subchapter and to
provide such printed forms as may be required for reporting, paying, and
receipting for all such license fees and for all other requirements in the
proper and efficient administration of this subchapter.
   (B)   The Director of Finance or any agent or employee designated in writing
by him or her is hereby authorized to examine the books, papers, and records of
any employer or supposed employer or of any licensee or supposed licensee in
order to determine the accuracy of any return made, or if no return was made,
to ascertain the amount of license fee imposed by the terms of this subchapter.
Each such employer or supposed employer or licensee or supposed licensee is
hereby directed and required to give to the Director of Finance or his or her
duly authorized agent or employee the means, facilities, and opportunity for
the examination and investigation as are hereby authorized. The Director of
Finance is hereby authorized to examine any person under oath concerning any
wages, salaries, commissions, or other compensation or net profits which were
or should have been returned; and, to this end, he or she may compel the
production of books, papers, records, and the attendance of all persons before
him or her, whether as parties or witnesses, whom he or she believes to have
knowledge of the wages, salaries, commissions, or other compensation or net
profits, to the extent that any officer empowered to administer oaths in this
state is permitted to so order.
(Prior Code, § 60.002) (Ord. 86-2, passed 5-14-1986)
§ 110.03 WHO MUST OBTAIN; BASIS OF COMPUTATION.
   (A)   All persons engaged in any trade, occupation, or profession within the
county, when employed by another who employs as many as five persons on a full-
time basis, shall pay an occupational license fee measured by and equal to 1.5%
of gross receipts paid for such service.
   (B)   All persons engaged in any trade, occupation, or profession within the
county, for themselves, for profit or gain and who have as many as five or more
full-time employees, shall pay a net profit license fee measured by and equal
to 1.5% of the net profit realized from such activity.
   (C)   Where salaries, wages, commissions, and other compensations under
division (A) above are earned for work done or services performed or rendered
both within and without the county, such license fee shall be computed by
obtaining the percentage which the compensation for work performed or services
rendered within the county bears to the total compensation earned.
   (D)   The net profits of business or professions from activities conducted
in the county under division (B) above shall be computed as follows: multiply
the entire net profit from all sources by a business allocation percentage to
be determined by:
      (1)   Ascertaining the percentage which the gross receipts of the license
from sale or service rendered within the county bears to the total gross
receipts from sales or services rendered wherever made;
      (2)   Ascertaining the percentage which wages, salaries, and other
personal service compensation for the period covered by the report for services
performed or rendered within the county bears to the total wages, salaries, and
personal service compensation for such period of all the licensee's employees
within and without the county; and
      (3)   Adding together the percentages determined in accordance with
divisions (D)(1) and (D)(2) above, and dividing the total so obtained by two.
   (E)   It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in any trade,
occupation, or profession within the county without withholding, reporting, and
paying the license fees herein provided and required. Portions of this
subchapter prescribing a penalty in the form of fine or imprisonment shall mean
and include the individual members of a firm, partnership, or association, and
the officers of any governmental body or agency or any corporation.
(Prior Code, § 60.003) (Ord. 86-2, passed 5-14-1986; Ord. 91-17, passed 11-27-
1991; Ord. 3, passed 5-8- 2024; Ord. 2024-3, passed 5-8-2024)
§ 110.04 CREDIT FOR OCCUPATIONAL LICENSE FEES PAID TO THE CITY OF WINCHESTER.
   All persons engaged in any trade, occupation, or profession with the City of
Winchester, Clark County, Kentucky, when employed by another, shall receive a
credit against the occupational license fee herein imposed for any sum paid to
the City of Winchester. Whenever the occupational license fee imposed by the
City of Winchester equals or exceeds the license fee imposed by the County
Fiscal Court, the Director of Finance can waive the requirement of filing a
return with the Director of Finance, unless the person works both within the
city limits of Winchester, and in the unincorporated part of the county, in
which case the occupational license fee under this subchapter shall be
applicable to the work performed in the unincorporated area of the county
without any credit for the occupational license fee paid to the City of
Winchester.
(Prior Code, § 60.004) (Ord. 86-2, passed 5-14-1986; Ord. 3, passed 5-8-2024;
Ord. 2024-3, passed 5-8-2024)
§ 110.05 EXEMPT ACTIVITIES.
   (A)   Because of the undue burden of administration, no license under this
subchapter shall be required of a person employed by an employer who employs
less than five full-time employees. The Director of Finance is empowered to
draft regulations defining full-time employees for the purpose of this
subchapter.
   (B)   No license shall be required of a minister of religion who has been
ordained in accordance with the ceremonial ritual or discipline of a recognized
church, religious sect, or religious organization, to teach and preach its
religious doctrines or to administer its rites in public worship, in the
performance of one or more of those duties; however, it is not intended to
exempt such ordained minister of religion from the necessity of paying a
license fee for work done or services performed in the county in activities not
connected with his or her regular duties as a minister of religion.
   (C)   No license under this subchapter shall be required of nonresidents who
sell farm products, other than trees, shrubs, or ornamental plants, in the
county, or nonresident owners who sell livestock in the county or who board
their livestock in the county for breeding purposes. The activities described
in this division (C) shall not constitute being engaged in any occupation,
trade, profession, or other activity as mentioned in this section.
   (D)   Natural persons of the age of 65 and older shall be exempt from the
provisions of the occupational license fee as to the first $10,000 of salaries,
wages, commissions, or other compensation earned by such persons in the county
for work done or services performed or rendered in the county.
   (E)   No license under this subchapter shall be required of any person
authorized by the City of Winchester or the County Fiscal Court to demonstrate,
sell, or offer for sale any goods, wares, or merchandise at an annual, semi-
annual, or other festival of arts and crafts show.
   (F)   All persons engaged in any trade, occupation, or profession within the
City of Winchester, for themselves, for profits or gains, who have paid a net
profit license fee to the City of Winchester for the privilege of doing
business within the City of Winchester, shall be exempted from paying a net
profit license fee to the County Fiscal Court under the terms of this
subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 60.005) (Ord. 86-2, passed 5-14-1986; Ord. 3, passed 5-8-2024;
Ord. 2024-3, passed 5-8-2024)
§ 110.06 DUTY OF EMPLOYER TO WITHHOLD, REPORT, AND PAY LICENSE FEES; RECORDS.
   (A)   Each employer who employs five or more persons on a full-time basis
within the county shall deduct monthly, or more often than monthly, at the time
of the payment thereof, the license fee due from each employee measured by the
amount of salaries, wages, commissions, or other compensation due by such
employer to such employee and shall pay to the county government the amount of
the license fee so deducted.
   (B)    The payment required to be made on account of deductions by employers
shall be made quarterly to the county government, for the quarterly periods
ending March 31, June 30, September 30, and December 31, on or before the last
day of the month following the quarter of such deduction; however, any employer
withholding a $300 or more license fee during any quarter shall file a return
and pay the license fee withheld monthly.
   (C)   Each employer who employs five or more persons within the
unincorporated area of the county shall, annually on or before February 28 of
each year, make a return to the Director of Finance in which it sets forth the
name and residence of each employee of such employer employed during the
preceding calendar year, giving the amount of salaries, wages, commissions, or
other compensation earned during such preceding year by such employee together
with such other pertinent information as the Director of Finance may require;
however, the failure or omission by any employer to deduct such license fee
shall not relieve the employee from the payment of such license fee and
compliance with such regulations with respect to making returns and payments
thereof, as may be fixed in this subchapter, established by the Director of
Finance of the County Fiscal Court.
   (D)   No church, religious congregation, or religious society of any creed
is required under the terms of this subchapter to withhold or deduct any sum
from the wages, salaries, commissions, or other compensation due by the church,
religious congregation, or religious society to its employees as salaries,
wages, commissions, or other compensation; however, this failure to withhold by
the employer the license fees shall not relieve the employees of the churches,
religious congregations, or religious societies from the payment of the license
fees required by this subchapter.
   (E)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to mean that employees of
churches, religious congregations, or religious societies of all creeds (except
duly ordained ministers) shall be relieved from the payment of any occupational
license fee in compliance with all regulations established by the Director of
Finance with respect to making returns and payment of such fees.
(Prior Code, § 60.006) (Ord. 86-2, passed 5-14-1986; Ord. 2007-30, passed 1-9-
2008)
§ 110.07 SEPARATE RETURNS; PAYMENTS, CONFIDENTIALITY.
   (A)   Each person subject to a license fee imposed by this subchapter shall,
on or before the fifteenth day of the fourth month following the close of each
year, make and file with the Director of Finance a return, in duplicate, on a
form furnished by or obtainable from the Director of Finance, setting forth the
aggregate amount of salaries, wages, commissions, and other compensation or net
profits during the preceding year, with such other pertinent information as the
Director of Finance may require; however, where the entire license due under
this subchapter has been withheld under the provisions hereof, the Director of
Finance may waive the filing of such return by the licensee; further, where the
fiscal year of the business, profession, or other activity differs from the
calendar year and the licensee filed a federal income tax return of such other
fiscal period, the license fee shall be measured by the net profits of the
fiscal year, and where the return is made for a fiscal year or any other period
different from a calendar year, the return shall be made on or before the
fifteenth day of the fourth month following the end of the fiscal year or other
period. The return shall also show the amount of the license fee imposed by
this subchapter.
   (B)   The person making the return shall, at the time of the filing thereof,
pay to the Director of Finance the amount of license fees shown as due thereon,
however, where any portion of the license fee so due shall have been deducted
at the source, credit for such amount shall be deducted from the amount shown
to be due and only the balance, if any, shall be due and payable at the time of
the filing of such return, as hereinabove provided; and it shall be the duty of
each employer who has deducted the license fee from the wages, salaries,
commissions, or other compensation referred to in §
110.06 to furnish such employee a statement showing the amount of salary earned
and license fee deducted and paid by such employer during the preceding
calendar year, on or before January 31 of each year.
   (C)   The Director of Finance shall have the authority to extend the filing
of such return in his or her discretion. Such extension shall be upon the
written request of the licensee; however, any balance unpaid when payment is
due under the terms of this subchapter shall bear interest at the rate of 12%
per annum until paid.
   (D)   Any information gained by the Director of Finance or any other
official or agent or employee of the county government as a result of any
returns, investigations, hearings, or verifications required or authorized by
this subchapter shall be confidential, except in accordance with proper
judicial order, or as otherwise provided by law; and any person or agent
divulging such information shall, upon conviction, be subject to a fine not
exceeding $1,000 or imprisoned for not more than one year, or both, at the
discretion of the court; however, such persons may disclose to the Commissioner
of Revenue of the state or his or her duly authorized agent all such
information and right to inspect any of the books and records of the county
government the reciprocal right to obtain information from the files and
records of the department of revenue of the state and maintain the privileged
character of the information so furnished to him or her.
   (E)   All license fees imposed by this subchapter remaining unpaid after
they become due shall bear interest at the rate of 12% per annum, and the
person from whom such license fees are due shall further be charged a penalty
of 5% of the amount of the unpaid license fee for each month or fraction of a
month such license fees remain unpaid provided, however, that the total penalty
levied pursuant to this section shall not exceed 25% of the total tax due and
the penalty shall not be less than $25. Any person or employer who fails or
refused to withhold monthly the license fee measured by a percent of salaries,
wages, and other methods prescribed, or who fails to pay such money, after
withholding the same, to the Director of Finance at the time it is due as
provided under the terms of §
110.05, shall become liable for the amount due to the county and the same shall
bear interest at the rate of 12% in addition to which a penalty of 5% of such
amount shall be added thereto for each month or fraction of a month said
license fees remain unpaid, but shall not exceed 25% and shall not be less than
$25.
   (F)   A taxpayer may claim a refund of any taxes improperly collected by the
County Treasurer, provided the claim for refund is made within two years of the
receipt of the taxes by the County Treasurer.
(Prior Code, § 60.007) (Ord. 86-2, passed 5-14-1986; Ord. 97-15, passed 10-15-
1997; Ord. 2007-30, passed 1-9-2008)
§ 110.08 COMMENCEMENT DATE; DURATION.
   The license fees imposed by this subchapter shall be effective beginning
October 1, 1986, and shall remain in force and effect until repealed or
modified according to law.
(Prior Code, § 60.008) (Ord. 86-2, passed 5-14-1986)
§ 110.09 HOTELS, MOTELS, AND THE LIKE.
   (A)   Every person, group, or association doing business as a motor court,
motel, hotel, inn, or like or similar accommodation in the county or the City
of Winchester shall:
      (1)   (a)   Continuously remain compliant and current regarding all
taxes, fees, and licenses due to the city;
         (b)   1.   Continuously remain in compliance with all applicable fire,
electrical, building property maintenance, plumbing codes, health department
regulations, state or federal codes relating to Americans with Disabilities Act
being 42 U.S.C. §§ 12101 et seq., disabled access, and any other code or
regulation that relates to the operation of said accommodation;
            2.   Permit unlimited access to all authorized inspectors on a
regular basis or in response to a complaint; and
            3.   As licensee, assume all responsibility to ensure that said
accommodation meets all applicable codes and regulations.
         (c)   Ensure that not less than 95% of all rooms remain continuously
available for public occupancy on a daily, weekly, or monthly basis; provided,
however, in no event shall rooms be used as apartments.
      (2)   Failure to comply with any of the provisions of this section shall
be grounds for temporary closure by any authorized inspector. Reports of non-
compliance shall be made promptly to the city licensing board which may suspend
or revoke the license to operate the accommodation pursuant to Ord. 9-45.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person (except an employee), firm, or
corporation, whether or not such person, firm, or corporation maintains a place
of business within the corporate limits of the city, to engage in any business,
occupation, trade or profession, or to sell, or offer for sale, any article of
goods, wares, or merchandise named in this subchapter, or to provide or offer
to provide any service for gain or profit, within the corporate limits of the
City of Winchester, or with respect to a motor court, motel, hotel, inn, or
similar accommodations in the county without first having procured a license so
to do and paid the required license tax or fee therefor.
(Ord. 2007-23, passed 9-12-2007) Penalty, see §
110.99
FIREWORKS SALES
§ 110.20 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   FIREWORKS. Any composition or device for the purpose of producing a visible
or an audible effect by combustion, deflagration, or detonation, and which
meets the definition of “consumer fireworks” as defined in KRS 227.702 or
“display” fireworks as defined in KRS 227.706 and as set forth in the United
States Department of Transportation’s (DOT) hazardous materials regulations.
FIREWORKS does not include:
      (1)   Toy pistols, toy canes, toy guns, or other devices in which paper
or plastic caps manufactured in accordance with DOT regulations, and packed and
shipped according to said regulations, are not considered to be fireworks and
shall be allowed to be used and sold at all times;
      (2)   Model rockets and model rocket motors designed, sold, and used for
the purpose of propelling recoverable aero models are not considered to be
fireworks; or
      (3)   Propelling or expelling charges consisting of a mixture of sulfur,
charcoal, and saltpeter are not considered as being designed for producing
audible effects.
   FIREWORKS RETAILER. Any individual, firm, partnership, or corporation
engaged in the business of making retail sales of fireworks to the general
public.
(Ord. 2013-4, passed 6-12-2013)
§ 110.21 RESTRICTIONS ON FIREWORKS RETAILERS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, entity, business, or fireworks retailer
to offer for sale, market, or distribute any kind of firework unless:
   (A)   The sale of fireworks occurs between May 15 and July 15 or from
December 15 and January 15 of any calendar year or both. Fireworks may only be
offered for sale between the hours of 10:00 a.m. and 11:00 p.m.;
   (B)   The business permit fee to the retailer to offer for sale, market, and
distribution of any kind of firework is a charge of $100 per day or a fee of
$500 for any period of five or more consecutive days;
   (C)   The business permit shall be obtained by the retailer Monday through
Friday between the hours of 8:00 a.m. and 4:00 p.m. at the Clark County Fire
Department, 200 Barnes Drive, Winchester, Kentucky 40391;
   (D)   All fireworks retailers shall display the State Fire Marshal
registration placard;
   (E)   Each site of a fireworks retailer shall comply with all applicable
provisions of the International Building Code, with state amendments (adopted
edition), and NFPA 1124 (National Fire Protection Association) Code for the
Manufacture, Transportation, Storage, and Retail Sales of Fireworks and
Pyrotechnic Articles (adopted edition);
   (F)   No person under 18 years of age shall work at a fireworks retailer
sales facility unless the individual is supervised by a parent or guardian;
   (G)   All firework retailers shall post at least one sign that reads as
follows, in letters at least two inches (51 mm) high on a contrasting
background, shall be conspicuously posted at the point of sale within ten feet
(3.05m), as per KRS 227.715(11)(a)(b):
      (1)   YOU MUST BE 18 YEARS OF AGE TO PURCHASE AND/OR DISCHARGE FIREWORKS;
and
      (2)   FIREWORKS CANNOT BE DISCHARGED WITHIN 200 FT. OF ANY STRUCTURE,
VEHICLE, OR ANY OTHER PERSON WITHIN THE COUNTY.
   (H)   All fireworks retailers shall provide the local Fire Marshal with the
state storage notification report and a copy of all fireworks inventory; and
   (I)   All fireworks retailers shall comply with KAR 815 10:70, KRS Chapter
227, and NFPA 1124.
(Ord. 2013-4, passed 6-12-2013)
§ 110.22 DISCHARGE OF FIREWORKS.
   (A)   No person, business, or fireworks retailer shall give, offer for sale,
or sell any fireworks listed in KRS 227.702 to any person under 18 years of
age.
   (B)   Any person, business, entity, or fireworks retailer may ignite, fire,
explode, or discharge fireworks only between the hours of 10:00 a.m. and 11:00
p.m. from June 27 through July 6 and from December 30 through January 1. This
restriction shall apply to all zoning classifications, including, but not
limited to, residential, business, and industrial but shall not include
properties zoned agricultural, which properties shall be exempt from this
restriction.
(Ord. 2013-4, passed 6-12-2013; Ord. 2018-20, passed 9-26-2018) Penalty, see §
110.99
INSURANCE COMPANIES
§ 110.35 LICENSE FEE.
   There is hereby imposed on each insurance company a license fee for the
privilege of engaging in the business of insurance within the county beginning
July 1, 2005, and to continue thereafter from year to year until abolished by
ordinance.
(Ord. 2005-10, passed 3-18-2005)
§ 110.36 CALCULATION OF FEE.
   The license fee imposed upon each insurance company which issues any
insurance policy shall be 4% of the premiums actually collected within each
calendar quarter by reason of the issuance of such policies on risks located
within the county on those classes of business which such company is authorized
to transact, less all premiums returned to policyholders; however, any license
fee or tax imposed upon premium receipts shall not include premiums received
for insuring employers against liability for personal injuries to their
employees, or the death of their employees, caused thereby, under the
provisions of the Worker’s Compensation Act, being KRS Chapter 342 and shall
not include premiums received on policies of life insurance or health
insurance.
(Ord. 2005-10, passed 3-18-2005)
§ 110.37 PAYMENT OF FEE.
   (A)   The revenue generated by virtue of this subchapter shall be paid into
the General Fund of the county.
   (B)   All license fees imposed by this subchapter shall be due no later than
30 days after the end of each calendar quarter. License fees which are not paid
on or before the due date shall bear interest at the tax interest rate as
defined in KRS 131.010(6).
(Ord. 2005-10, passed 3-18-2005)
§ 110.38 DOCUMENTATION OF COLLECTIONS.
   Every insurance company subject to the license fees imposed by this
subchapter shall manually, by March 31, furnish the county with a written
breakdown of all collections since inception on July 1, 2005 for the following
categories of insurance: casualty; automobile; inland marine; and fire and
allied perils.
(Ord. 2005-10, passed 3-18-2005)
§ 110.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   (1)   Any person who shall fail, neglect, or refuse to make any return
required by §§
110.01 to
110.08, or any employer who shall fail to withhold the license fees under the
terms of §§
110.01 to
110.08, or to pay over to the county government fees so withheld, or any person
who shall refuse to permit the Director of Finance or any agency or employee
designated by him or her, in writing, to examine his or her books, records,
papers, or who shall knowingly make any incomplete, false, or fraudulent
return, or who shall attempt to do anything whatever to avoid the full
disclosure of earnings or profits in order to avoid the payment of the whole or
any part of the license fee shall, upon conviction, be subject for each offense
to a fine or penalty not to exceed $500 and/or imprisonment for a period not to
exceed one year. The defendant shall, upon conviction, pay all court costs for
each offense.
      (2)   Any person who shall engage in the occupations without first
obtaining the required license under the terms of this chapter, or who shall
fail to pay the required license fee when the same shall be due shall, upon
conviction, be subject for each offense to a fine or penalty of not less than
$10 nor more than $500 and/or imprisonment for a period not to exceed 12
months. Each day that any person continues to operate without the required
license shall be deemed a separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 60.999)
   (C)   (1)   Any violation of §
110.21 shall be considered a Class A misdemeanor, punishable by up to a year in
the county detention center and fine up to and not to exceed $500.
      (2)   Any violation of §
110.21(I) shall be punishable by a fine of $1,000 per occurrence or per day of
a violation.
      (3)   Any violation of §
110.22 shall be considered a Class A misdemeanor, punishable by up to a year in
the county detention center and fine up to and not to exceed $500.
(Ord. 86-2, passed 5-14-1986; Ord. 2018-20, passed 9-26-2018)
CHAPTER 111: PAWNBROKERS AND PRECIOUS METAL DEALERS
Section
Pawnbrokers
   
111.01   Definitions
   
111.02   When items can be accepted
   
111.03   Register of loans and purchases
   
111.04   Ticket and receipt for articles
   
111.05   Daily reports
   
111.06   Maximum interest and service charges
   
111.07   Receipts for payments
   
111.08   Ten-day hold for purchase items
   
111.09   Duties of precious metal dealers
   
111.10   Hold of purchased metals by precious metal dealer
   
111.11   Transactions with persons convicted of larceny-related offenses
   
111.12   Reporting through web-based central reporting system
   
111.13   Conflict of law
Precious Metal Dealers
   
111.25   Daily register to be kept
   
111.26   Daily reports
   
111.27   Receipt to be given for each article
   
111.28   Prohibited activities
 
   
111.99   Penalty
PAWNBROKERS
§ 111.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   LEADSONLINE. An existing web-based central reporting system that allows
pawnbrokers and precious metal dealers to report their transactions to law
enforcement with information required by state statute and this subchapter.
   PAWNBROKER. Any person who loans money on deposit of personal property, or
who deals in the purchase of personal property on condition of selling the
property back again at a stipulated price, or who makes a public display at his
or her place of business of the sign generally used by pawnbrokers to denote
their business, or who publicly exhibits a sign advertising money to loan on
personal property or deposit is a PAWNBROKER.
   PRECIOUS METAL DEALER. Any business that engages in the purchase of non-
ferrous metals for the purposes of reselling and/or recycling metal for its
physical qualities. Businesses are also identified as PRECIOUS METAL DEALERS if
that business advertises that they purchase gold or silver for cash. A PRECIOUS
METAL DEALER does not include any recycler who, as part of their business,
purchases motor vehicles for scrap metal.
(Ord. 2011-08, passed 8-10-2011)
§ 111.02 WHEN ITEMS CAN BE ACCEPTED.
   No pawnbroker shall receive, by way of pledge or pawn, any article whatever
from a minor at any time, nor from any person between 8:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m.
(Ord. 2011-08, passed 8-10-2011) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.03 REGISTER OF LOANS AND PURCHASES.
   Every pawnbroker shall keep a register of all loans and purchases of all
articles effected or made by him or her. The register shall show the dates of
all loans or purchases, and the names of all persons who have left any property
on deposit as collateral security, or as a delivery or sale. Opposite the names
and dates shall be written in plain hand a full description of all property
purchased or received on deposit as collateral security, the time when the loan
falls due, the amount of purchase money, the amount loaned and the interest
charged. The register shall at all times be open to the inspection of any
officer of this state when in the discharge of his or her official duty.
(Ord. 2011-08, passed 8-10-2011)
§ 111.04 TICKET AND RECEIPT FOR ARTICLES.
   (A)   Every pawnbroker shall give a plain written or printed ticket for the
loan to the person negotiating or selling, and a plain written or printed
receipt of the articles that have been purchased, or upon which money is
loaned, having on each a copy of the entries required by KRS 226.040 to be kept
in his or her register. He or she shall not make any charge for the ticket or
receipt.
   (B)   A pawnbroker may sell any article pawned after the expiration of 60
days from the maturity of the loan, provided that, not less than ten days
before making the sale, the pawnbroker shall have given notice to the person by
whom the article was pawned, by mail addressed to the post office address of
such person as shown on the pawnbroker’s register, notifying such person that,
unless he or she redeems the article within ten days from the date of mailing
said notice, the article will be sold.
(Ord. 2011-08, passed 8-10-2011)
§ 111.05 DAILY REPORTS.
   (A)   Every pawnbroker in a city or in the unincorporated area of any county
shall, by 11:00 a.m. each day, make available to the chief of police of the
city, the chief law enforcement officer of the county, or to the Department of
State Police, a true and correct written report of all goods received by him or
her, whether by pawn or purchase, during the 24 hours preceding each report.
The report shall describe the goods as accurately as practicable.
   (B)   The chief of police of the city, the chief law enforcement officer of
the county, or the Department of State Police shall furnish blanks for the
reports required by division (A) above.
(Ord. 2011-08, passed 8-10-2011)
§ 111.06 MAXIMUM INTEREST AND SERVICE CHARGES.
   Any pawnbroker, as defined in KRS 226.010, may, in loaning money on deposit
of personal property, charge, contract for, or receive interest at a rate not
exceeding 2% per month on the unpaid principal balance of the loan, and may
charge, contract for, and receive a reasonable fee, not to exceed one-fifth of
the value of the loan per month, for investigating the title, storing and
insuring the property, closing the loan, making daily reports to local law
enforcement officers, and for other expenses, losses, and incidental costs
associated with servicing such loans. It is further provided that such fee when
made and collected shall not be deemed interest for any purpose of law. No
pawnbroker shall directly or indirectly charge, receive, or contract for any
interest or consideration greater than that allowed by this section.
(Ord. 2011-08, passed 8-10-2011) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.07 RECEIPTS FOR PAYMENTS.
   Every pawnbroker, upon receiving any payment of money from a borrower, shall
give to such person a plain and complete receipt for such payment, specifying
separately the amount applied to principal and the amount applied to interest.
In a case where the pawnbroker has purchased personal property under an
agreement to sell it back at a stipulated price, the pawnbroker shall, on
receiving any payment of money from the person from whom the property was
purchased, give such person a receipt stating the original purchase price, the
stipulated resale price, and the amount received.
(Ord. 2011-08, passed 8-10-2011)
§ 111.08 TEN-DAY HOLD FOR PURCHASE ITEMS.
   Pawnbrokers shall place a ten-day hold on items purchased without a pawn
agreement before reselling such property.
(Ord. 2011-08, passed 8-10-2011)
§ 111.09 DUTIES OF PRECIOUS METAL DEALERS.
   Precious metal dealers shall be subject to pawnbroker orders listed in §§
111.03 and
111.05 as set forth in this subchapter.
(Ord. 2011-08, passed 8-10-2011)
§ 111.10 HOLD OF PURCHASED METALS BY PRECIOUS METAL DEALER.
   Precious metal dealers shall place a ten-day hold on items purchased, in
their original form upon entering a precious metal dealer, before those items
may be resold, damaged, or recycled.
(Ord. 2011-08, passed 8-10-2011)
§ 111.11 TRANSACTIONS WITH PERSONS CONVICTED OF LARCENY-RELATED OFFENSES.
   Pawnbrokers and precious metal dealers are prohibited from engaging in any
transaction for a period of three years with a person convicted of a crime in
any Clark County Court where their conviction involved the selling or pawning
of stolen property to any pawnbroker or precious metal dealer in the county and
the City of Winchester. Law enforcement shall supply pawnbrokers and precious
metal dealers with the names and date of conviction of anyone convicted of such
crime.
(Ord. 2011-08, passed 8-10-2011) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.12 REPORTING THROUGH WEB-BASED CENTRAL REPORTING SYSTEM.
   Reporting to a web-based central reporting system identified as Leadsonline
shall be the primary method of reporting transactions for pawnbrokers and
precious metal dealers and will suffice for reporting directly to the
appropriate law enforcement agency as set forth in §
111.05. In the event an unintended circumstance prevents reporting through the
web-based system, pawnbrokers and precious metal dealers shall revert to
reporting in accordance with §
111.05.
(Ord. 2011-08, passed 8-10-2011)
§ 111.13 CONFLICT OF LAW.
   To the extent any resolution, ordinance, or parts thereof is in conflict,
the provisions of this subchapter will prevail and be given effect.
(Ord. 2011-08, passed 8-10-2011)
PRECIOUS METAL DEALERS
§ 111.25 DAILY REGISTER TO BE KEPT.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of all persons dealing in the purchase, sale, or
exchange of second-hand or antique jewelry, coins, watches, diamonds, or other
precious stones, cutlery, old gold, silver, platinum, or other precious metals,
or any other second-hand manufactured articles, composed wholly or in part of
gold, silver, platinum, or other precious metals, to keep a daily register on a
form provided by the Winchester Police Department and/or the County Sheriff of
every article received by them in the course of their business and the persons
from whom such articles were acquired.
   (B)   The register shall contain as minute a description of each article as
is possible, including any identification numbers and the manufacturer’s name,
as well as the name, age, sex, race, address, driver’s license number or
numbers from two IDs, general description of the individual or individuals
selling or exchanging the articles, their signatures, and a legible right thumb
print.
(Prior Code, § 61.001) (Ord. 81-9, passed 5-27-1981)
§ 111.26 DAILY REPORTS.
   All persons engaged in business as described in §
111.25 shall furnish to the Chief of Police of the City of Winchester and/or
the County Sheriff, each day at their offices by 11:00 a.m., a copy of the
register for all transactions which took place during the preceding day.
(Prior Code, § 61.002) (Ord. 81-9, passed 5-27-1981)
§ 111.27 RECEIPT TO BE GIVEN FOR EACH ARTICLE.
   (A)   All persons engaged in business as described in §
111.25 shall retain each and every article received by them in the same state
or condition in which it was received, and all articles received during any one
day’s transaction shall be kept separately and shall not be co-mingled with
articles received during any other day’s transactions.
   (B)   All articles shall be made available for examination to members of the
police department, sheriff’s department, state police, or other law enforcement
official for a period of seven consecutive days after their receipt, before
such articles are resold or exchanged, unless written permission is obtained
from the Chief of Police of the City of Winchester and/or the County Sheriff.
(Prior Code, § 61.003) (Ord. 81-9, passed 5-27-1981)
§ 111.28 PROHIBITED ACTIVITIES.
   No person engaged in business as described in §
111.25 shall purchase or exchange second-hand or antique jewelry, coins,
watches, diamonds, or other precious stones, cutlery, or old gold, silver,
platinum, or other precious metals, or any other second-hand manufactured
articles composed wholly or in part of gold, silver, platinum, or other
precious metals from any person less than 18 years of age.
(Prior Code, § 61.004) (Ord. 81-9, passed 5-27-1981) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   (1)   The penalties for violation of this §§
111.01 to
111.13 shall be as follows:
         (1)   First conviction: Class B misdemeanor constituting a fine not to
exceed $250 and/or up to 90 days in jail; and
         (2)   Second conviction: Class A misdemeanor constituting a fine not
to exceed $500 and/or up to one year in jail.
      (2)   Each incident which results in a violation of §§
111.01 to
111.13 shall constitute a separate offense.
   (C)   Any violation of any of the duties, requirements, or provisions of §§
111.25 to
111.28 shall be punishable as a Class A misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 61.999) (Ord. 81-9, passed 5-27-1981; Ord. 2011-08, passed 8-10-
2011)
CHAPTER 112: RECYCLERS
Section
Motor Vehicle Recyclers
   
112.01   Definitions
   
112.02   Duties of motor vehicle recycler
   
112.03   Records received by law enforcement
   
112.04   Transactions with persons convicted of larceny-related offenses
prohibited
   
112.05   Conflict of law
Duties of Recyclers
   
112.20   Definition
   
112.21   Duties of purchasers of metal and objects containing metal
   
112.22   Records received by law enforcement
   
112.23   Business records
   
112.24   Exceptions
   
112.25   Prohibited items to be purchased by recyclers
   
112.26   Ferrous metal transactions
   
112.27   Full description of purchased metal
   
112.28   Reporting through web-based central reporting system
   
112.29   Transactions with persons convicted of larceny-related offenses
   
112.30   Conflict of law
 
   
112.99   Penalty
MOTOR VEHICLE RECYCLERS
§ 112.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   LEADSONLINE. An existing web-based central reporting system that allows
recyclers to report their transactions to law enforcement with information
required by state statute and this subchapter.
   MOTOR VEHICLE RECYCLER. Any individual or business, or principals,
employees, or agents thereof, that purchases motor vehicles for the purposes
crushing and/or recycling motor vehicles for scrap metal.
(Ord. 2011-09, passed 8-10-2011)
§ 112.02 DUTIES OF MOTOR VEHICLE RECYCLER.
   Under this subchapter, each motor vehicle recycler shall be obligated to
follow and comply with the following regulations and requirements:
   (A)   Keep a register that contains:
      (1)   A photocopy of a valid driver’s license or other government-issued
identification card or document which contains the name, photograph, and
signature of the seller. If the purchaser has a copy of the seller’s valid
photo identification on file, it shall not be necessary for the purchaser to
make another copy of the identification document for each purchase if the
purchaser references the number on the identification document in the register
at the time of each purchase;
      (2)   The state and license number of the motor vehicle used to transport
the motor vehicle, to the place of purchase, which shall be provided by the
seller of the items;
      (3)   The time and date of the transaction:
      (4)   The year, make, model, license plate number, and/or vehicle
identification number of the motor vehicle purchased by the motor vehicle
recycler; and
      (5)   The amount paid for the motor vehicle and the unit basis of the
purchase, such as by ounce or pound, and the like.
   (B)   Shall hold motor vehicles purchased, in their original form as
presented to the motor vehicle recycler for a period of three business days,
unless notified, within that three-day period by a peace officer having
reasonable cause to believe that the property may be stolen property, in which
case, the motor vehicle may be seized as evidence by the peace officer or, if
not seized, shall be retained for an additional 30 days unless earlier notified
by a peace officer that the property may be sold. Certain motor vehicles may be
recycled immediately. A motor vehicle may be recycled immediately after
transaction if meeting any one of the following conditions:
      (1)   Motor vehicle is missing an engine or transmission upon entering
the business;
      (2)   Motor vehicle has fire damage to its exterior;
      (3)   Motor vehicle is sold to a motor vehicle recycler with a junk
title. Motor vehicle recyclers shall retain a copy of the junk title with the
transaction record and kept for two years. The registrant on the junk title
shall be the only person who can sell the specific motor vehicle to the motor
vehicle recycler. The motor vehicle recycler shall hold the motor vehicle for
three business days if sold by anyone other than the registrant listed on the
junk title except as provided under (B)(5) below;
      (4)   Motor vehicles that are sold to the motor vehicle recycler by a
business engaged in towing, impound, insurance, or any other motor vehicle
recycler where reporting to another law enforcement agency or Leadsonline
registration and notification has already been accomplished;
      (5)   Motor vehicle is determined to be older than ten years old. This
can be done by using the VIN number to ascertain the year of the motor vehicle;
and
      (6)   The motor vehicle is determined to be ten years old or less and the
motor vehicle is being sold by the person whose name appears on the title to
the motor vehicle. A copy of the title and the identification of the person
selling the vehicle will be maintained together.
   (C)   Not purchase any motor vehicle from a person who:
      (1)   Is less than 18 years of age; or
      (2)   Is unable or refuses to provide the identification and information
required in division (C)(1) above:
   (D)   Retain the information required by this section for a period of two
years, after which time, the information may be retained, destroyed in a manner
that protects the identity of the owner of the property and the seller of the
property, or transferred to a law enforcement agency specified in division (G)
below;
   (E)   If the purchaser ceases business, transfer all records and information
required by this section to a law enforcement agency specified in division (G)
below;
   (F)   Permit any peace officer to inspect the register, during normal
business hours, and if the peace officer deems it necessary, to locate and
inspect the specific stolen motor vehicle received during business hours;
   (G)   Upon written request of the Sheriff or Chief of Police, as
appropriate, transmit a report containing the information required to be
retained in the register under division (A) above to Leadsonline web based
central reporting system, within 24 hours of the transaction;
   (H)   If an unintended circumstance prevents transmitting reports to
Leadsonline, motor vehicle recyclers shall submit their reports in person, in
digital format, in writing, or by electronic means to the County Sheriff and
Winchester Police Department within 24 hours of the transaction; or
   (I)   Comply with a written request pursuant to division (G) above until a
written notice to cease sending the reports required by division (G) above is
received by the purchaser. A request may relate to:
      (1)   All records of purchases;
      (2)   Records of a specific motor vehicle;
      (3)   Records of purchases during a specific period of time; or
      (4)   Records of a specific purchase or purchases.
(Ord. 2011-09, passed 8-10-2011)
§ 112.03 RECORDS RECEIVED BY LAW ENFORCEMENT.
   A Sheriff or Police Department receiving records pursuant to this section
shall retain the records for two years, after which time, it may either retain
or destroy the records in a manner that protects the identity of the owner of
the property, the seller of the property, and the purchaser of the property.
(Ord. 2011-09, passed 8-10-2011)
§ 112.04 TRANSACTIONS WITH PERSONS CONVICTED OF LARCENY-RELATED OFFENSES
PROHIBITED.
   Motor vehicle recyclers are prohibited from engaging in any transaction for
a period of three years with a person convicted of a crime in any County Court
where their conviction involved the selling of stolen metal or a stolen motor
vehicle to any recycler in the county and the City of Winchester. Law
enforcement shall supply recyclers with the names and date of conviction of
anyone convicted of such crime.
(Ord. 2011-09, passed 8-10-2011)
§ 112.05 CONFLICT OF LAW.
   To the extent any resolution, ordinance, or parts thereof is in conflict,
the provisions of this subchapter will prevail and be given effect.
(Ord. 2011-09, passed 8-10-2011)
DUTIES OF RECYCLERS
§ 112.20 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   LEADSONLINE. An existing web-based central reporting system that allows
recyclers to report their transactions to law enforcement with information
required by state statute and this subchapter.
(Ord. 2011-10, passed 8-10-2011)
§ 112.21 DUTIES OF PURCHASERS OF METAL AND OBJECTS CONTAINING METAL.
   Every recycler, dealer in junk or metals, dealer in secondhand articles,
vendor of bottles or rags, collector of or dealer in articles found in ashes,
garbage, or other refuse, whether such dealers, collectors, or vendors have
established places of business or operate a business of an itinerant nature,
shall, with regard to any catalytic converter, metal beverage container that is
capable of holding more than two liters of beverage and is marketed as
returnable, railroad rails, non-ferrous metal or an alloy thereof, ferrous or
an object containing non-ferrous metal, and ferrous metal or an alloy thereof:
   (A)   Keep a register that contains:
      (1)   A photocopy of a valid driver’s license or other government-issued
identification card or document which contains the name, photograph, and
signature of the seller. If the purchaser has a copy of the seller’s valid
photo identification on file, it shall not be necessary for the purchaser to
make another copy of the identification document for each purchase if the
purchaser references the number on the identification document in the register
at the time of each purchase;
      (2)   The state and license number of the motor vehicle used to transport
the purchased catalytic converter, metal beverage container that is capable of
holding more than two liters of beverage and is marketed as returnable,
railroad rail, non-ferrous metal or an alloy thereof, or object containing non-
ferrous metal or an alloy thereof, to the place of purchase, which shall be
provided by the seller of the items;
      (3)   The time and date of the transaction;
      (4)   A description in the usage of the trade of the kind and weight of
the railroad rail, non-ferrous metal or an alloy thereof, or object containing
the non-ferrous metal or an alloy thereof purchased; and
      (5)   The amount paid for the material and the unit basis of the
purchase, such as by ounce or pound, and the like.
   (B)   Not purchase any metal that has been smelted, burned, or melted
unless, in addition to the other requirements of this division (B), the seller
provides the following, and the purchaser maintains a copy thereof:
      (1)   A signed certificate of ownership stating that he or she is the
owner of the metal and is entitled to sell it; or
      (2)   A signed certificate from the owner of the metal stating that he or
she is the owner of the metal, and that the person selling the metal is
authorized to sell the metal on behalf of the owner.
   (C)   Not purchase any catalytic converter, metal beverage container that is
capable of holding more than two liters of beverage and is marketed as
returnable, railroad rail, non-ferrous metal or an alloy thereof, or an object
containing non-ferrous metal or an alloy thereof from a person who:
      (1)   Is less than 18 years of age; or
      (2)   Is unable or refuses to provide the identification and information
required in division (C)(1) above.
   (D)   Retain the information required by this section for a period of two
years, after which time, the information may be retained, destroyed in a manner
that protects the identity of the owner of the property and the seller of the
property, or transferred to a law enforcement agency specified in division (G)
below;
   (E)   If the purchaser ceases business, transfer all records and information
required by this section to a law enforcement agency specified in division (G)
below;
   (F)   Permit any peace officer to inspect the register, and if the peace
officer deems it necessary to locate specific stolen property, may inspect the
catalytic converter, metal beverage and container that is capable of holding
more than two liters of beverage is marketed as returnable, railroad rail, non-
ferrous metal or an alloy thereof, or object containing non-ferrous metal or an
alloy thereof received during business hours;
   (G)   Upon written request of the Sheriff or Chief of Police, as
appropriate, make a report containing the information required to be retained
in the register under division (A) above in person, in digital format, in
writing, or by electronic means within 24 hours of the transaction to:
      (1)   The Sheriff of the county in which the purchase was made and the
Sheriff of the county in which the business is located; and
      (2)   When the purchase was made in a city, county, urban-county, charter
county, consolidated local government, or unified local government, to the
police department of the city, county, urban-county, charter county,
consolidated local government, or unified local government in which the
purchase is made and the police department of the city, county, urban-county,
charter county, consolidated local government, or unified local government in
which the business is located, unless there is no police department in that
jurisdiction.
   (H)   Comply with a written request pursuant to division (G) above until a
written notice to cease sending the reports required by division (G) above is
received by the purchaser. A request may relate to:
      (1)   All records of purchases;
      (2)   Records of a specific class of metals or items purchased;
      (3)   Records of purchases during a specific period of time; or
      (4)   Records of a specific purchase or purchases.
   (I)   Retain the property in its original form or a photograph or digital
image of the property for a period of three business days from the date of
purchase unless notified by a peace officer having reasonable cause to believe
that the property may be stolen property, in which case, the property may be
sized as evidence by the peace officer or, if not seized, shall be retained for
an additional 30 days unless earlier notified by a peace officer that the
property may be sold.(Ord. 2011-10, passed 8-10-2011)
§ 112.22 RECORDS RECEIVED BY LAW ENFORCEMENT.
   A Sheriff or Police Department receiving records pursuant to this subchapter
shall retain the records for two years, after which time, it may either retain
or destroy the records in a manner that protects the identity of the owner of
the property, the seller of the property, and the purchaser of the property.
(Ord. 2011-10, passed 8-10-2011)
§ 112.23 BUSINESS RECORDS.
   Any record required to be made or reported pursuant to this subchapter may
be kept and reported in hard copy or digital or in electronic format.
(Ord. 2011-10, passed 8-10-2011)
§ 112.24 EXCEPTIONS.
   This subchapter shall not apply to the purchase, sale, or transfer of:
   (A)   A motor vehicle, aircraft, or other item that is licensed by the state
or federal government pursuant to a legitimate transfer of title or issuance of
a junk title;
   (B)   A firearm, part of a firearm, firearm accessor, ammunition, or
ammunition component;
   (C)   A knife, knife parts, accessory or sheath for a knife, or knife making
products;
   (D)   A nonreturnable used beverage container or food container;
   (E)   Jewelry, household goods containing metal, garden tools, and similar
household items, except for a catalytic converter or metal beverage container
that is capable of holding more than two liters of liquid and which is marketed
as returnable, which takes place at a flea market or yard sale;
   (F)   A single transaction involving a purchase price of $10 or less, but
more than two transactions with the same person involving a purchase price of
$10 or less in one seven-day period shall be reportable transactions;
   (G)   Material disposed of as trash or refuse that contains or may contain a
catalytic converter, metal beverage container that is capable of holding more
than two liters of beverage and is marketed as returnable, railroad rail, non-
ferrous metals or an alloy thereof, or an object that contains or may contain a
railroad rail or non-ferrous metals or an alloy thereof, which is collected by
a municipal waste department or by a licensed waste hauler and no payment is
made to the person from whom the material is collected by the person or agency
collecting the material;
   (H)   A catalytic convener, metal beverage container that is capable of
holding more than two liters of beverage and marketed as returnable, railroad
rail, non-ferrous metal or alloy thereof, or an object containing railroad
rail, non-ferrous metal, or an alloy thereof from a person who has maintained a
record pursuant to this section to a person who is to further recycle the metal
or object containing the metal;
   (I)   A catalytic convener, metal beverage container that is capable of
holding more than two liters of beverage and marketed as returnable, railroad
rail, non-ferrous metal or an alloy thereof, or object containing non-ferrous
metal or an alloy thereof under a written contract with an organization,
corporation, or association registered with the state as a charitable,
philanthropic, religious, fraternal, civic, patriotic, social, or school
sponsored organization;
   (J)   A purchase pursuant to a written contract, from a manufacturing,
industrial, or other commercial vendor, that generates catalytic converters,
metal beverage containers capable of holding more than two liters of beverage
and which are marketed as returnable, railroad rail, non-ferrous metal or an
alloy thereof, or object containing non-ferrous metal in the ordinary course of
business;
   (K)   An item purchased by, pawned to, or sold by a pawnbroker licensed
pursuant to KRS Chapter 226 engaging in the business authorized by that
chapter; or
   (L)   A catalytic converter, metal beverage container that is capable of
holding more than two liters of beverage and is marked as returnable, or
railroad rails.
(Ord. 2011-10, passed 8-10-2011)
§ 112.25 PROHIBITED ITEMS TO BE PURCHASED BY RECYCLERS.
   No recycler shall accept any metal that bares a municipal name, utility
company, and/or government waste water removal entity or property that is used
for highway safety. This specifically includes, but not limited to, manhole
covers, storm grates, and guard rails and their supports. These items may be
sold to a recycler by the originating entity or by anyone in possession of a
notarized letter containing:
   (A)   The originating agency’s name and authorizing official’s contact
information;
   (B)   The name of the person who was given the metal for disposal by the
authorizing official. The person listed on this notarized letter by the
authorizing official shall be the only seller of these specific metals to the
recycler; and
   (C)   A list of materials that is to be released to the person for disposal.
(Ord. 2011-10, passed 8-10-2011) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.26 FERROUS METAL TRANSACTIONS.
   All ferrous metals shall also be included in the duties of purchasers set
forth in §
112.21. Included in ferrous metals are trailers and mowing equipment.
(Ord. 2011-10, passed 8-10-2011)
§ 112.27 FULL DESCRIPTION OF PURCHASED METAL.
   Make, model, type, and/or serial numbers shall be reported in accordance
with §
112.21. In addition, a photograph, digital or video image may be maintained by
the recycler to ensure compliance with this section. In the event a make,
model, type, or serial number cannot be located, the purchaser shall report a
full detailed description of the item purchased.
(Ord. 2011-10, passed 8-10-2011)
§ 112.28 REPORTING THROUGH WEB-BASED CENTRAL REPORTING SYSTEM.
   Reporting to a web-based central reporting system identified as Leadsonline
shall be the primary method of reporting transactions and will suffice for
reporting directly to the appropriate law enforcement agency as set forth in §
112.21. In the event an unintended circumstance prevents reporting through the
web-based system, recyclers shall revert to reporting in accordance with §
112.21.
(Ord. 2011-10, passed 8-10-2011)
§ 112.29 TRANSACTIONS WITH PERSONS CONVICTED OF LARCENY-RELATED OFFENSES.
   Recyclers are prohibited from engaging in any transaction for a period of
three years with a person convicted of a crime in any County Court where their
conviction involved the selling of stolen metal or a stolen motor vehicle to
any recycler in the county and the City of Winchester. Law enforcement shall
supply recyclers with the names and date of conviction of anyone convicted of
such crime.
(Ord. 2011-10, passed 8-10-2011) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.30 CONFLICT OF LAW.
   To the extent any resolution, ordinance, or parts thereof is in conflict,
the provisions of this subchapter will prevail and be given effect.
(Ord. 2011-10, passed 8-10-2011)
§ 112.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   The penalties for violation of §§
112.01 to
112.05 shall be as follows:
      (1)   Class A misdemeanor constituting a fine not to exceed $500 and/or
up to one year in jail; and
      (2)   Each incident which results in a violation of §§
112.01 to
112.05 shall constitute a separate offense.
   (C)   The penalties for violation of §§
112.20 to
112.30 shall be as follows:
      (1)   Class A misdemeanor constituting a fine not to exceed $500 and/or
up to one year in jail; and
      (2)   Each incident which results in a violation of §§
112.20 to
112.30 shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 2011-09, passed 8-10-2011; Ord. 2011-10, passed 8-10-2011)
CHAPTER 113: SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESSES
Section
General Provisions
   
113.01   Purpose
   
113.02   Definitions
   
113.03   Classifications
Licenses
   
113.15   License required
   
113.16   Issuance of license
   
113.17   Fees
   
113.18   Inspection
   
113.19   Expiration and non-renewal of license
   
113.20   Suspension
   
113.21   Revocation
   
113.22   Hearing de novo; judicial review
   
113.23   Transfer of license
   
113.24   Location of sexually oriented business
   
113.25   Injunction
Regulations; Violations
   
113.40   Additional regulations for adult motels
   
113.41   Viewing room exhibition regulations
   
113.42   Additional regulations for escort agencies
   
113.43   Additional regulations for nude model studios
   
113.44   Additional regulations concerning public nudity
   
113.45   Exterior portions of sexually oriented businesses
   
113.46   Signage
   
113.47   Exemptions
Prohibitions
   
113.60   Alcoholic beverages prohibited
   
113.61   Massages or baths administered by person of opposite sex
   
113.62   Prohibition against children in sexually oriented business
   
113.63   Hours of operation
 
   
113.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 113.01 PURPOSE.
   It is the purpose of this chapter to regulate sexually oriented businesses
in order to promote the health, safety, and general welfare of the citizens of
the city and county (hereafter sometimes called the county since the city is
contained within the county), and to establish reasonable and uniform
regulations to prevent the deleterious location and concentration of sexually
oriented businesses within the county. The provisions of this chapter have
neither the purpose nor effect of imposing a limitation or restriction on the
content of any communicative materials, including sexually oriented materials.
Similarly, it is not the intent nor effect of this chapter to restrict or deny
access by adults to sexually oriented materials protected by the First
Amendment, or to deny access by the distributors and exhibitors of sexually
oriented entertainment to their intended market. Neither is it the intent nor
effect of this chapter to condone or legitimize the distribution of obscene
material.
(Prior Code, § 62.001) (Ord. 2000-11, passed 7-26-2000)
§ 113.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADULT AMUSEMENT ARCADE. Any place in which the public is permitted or
invited wherein coin operated, slug operated, or electronically, electrically,
or mechanically controlled still or motion picture machines, projectors, video,
or other image producing devices are maintained to show images to five or fewer
persons per machine at any one time, and where the images so displayed are
distinguished or characterized by the depicting or describing of specified
sexual activities or specified anatomical areas.
   ADULT BOOKSTORE or ADULT VIDEO STORE. 
      (1)   A commercial establishment which, as one of its principal purposes,
offers for sale or rental for any form of consideration any one or more of the
following:
         (a)   Books, magazines, periodicals or other printed matter, or
photographs, films, motion pictures, video cassettes or video reproductions,
slides, or other visual representations which are characterized by the
depiction or description of specified sexual activities or specified anatomical
areas; or
         (b)   Instruments, devices, or paraphernalia which are designed for
use in connection with specified sexual activities.
      (2)   A commercial establishment may have other principal business
purposes that do not involve the offering for sale or rental of material
depicting or describing specified sexual activities or specified anatomical
areas and still be characterized as ADULT BOOKSTORE or ADULT VIDEO STORE. Such
other business purposes will not serve to exempt such commercial establishments
from being categorized as an ADULT BOOKSTORE or ADULT VIDEO STORE so long as a
significant business purpose is the offering for sale or rental for
consideration the specified materials which are characterized by the depiction
or description of specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas. A
use may be significant without being a primary use of an establishment as long
as it is a significant use based upon the visible inventory or commercial
activity of the establishment.
   ADULT CABARET. A nightclub, bar, restaurant, or similar commercial
establishment which regularly, commonly, habitually, or consistently features:
      (1)   Persons who appear in a state of nudity or semi-nude;
      (2)   Live performances which are characterized by the exposure of
specified anatomical areas or by specified sexual activities;
      (3)   Films, motion pictures, video cassettes, slides, or photographic
reproductions or other image producing devices which are characterized by the
depiction or description of specified sexual activities or specified anatomical
areas; or
      (4)   Persons who engage in exotic or erotic dancing or performances that
are intended for the sexual interests or titillation of an audience or
customers.
   ADULT MOTEL. A hotel, motel, or similar commercial establishment which:
      (1)   Offers accommodations to the public for any form of consideration;
provides patrons with closed-circuit television transmissions, films, motion
pictures, video cassettes, slides, or other photographic reproductions which
are characterized by the depiction or description of specified sexual
activities or specified anatomical areas; and has a sign visible from the
public right-of-way which advertises the availability of these adult-type
photographic reproductions;
      (2)   Offers a sleeping room for rent for a period of time that is less
than six hours; or
      (3)   Allows a tenant or occupant of a sleeping room to sub-rent the room
for a period of time that is less than six hours.
   ADULT MOTION THEATER. A commercial establishment where, for any form of
consideration, films, motion pictures, video cassettes, slides, or similar
photographic reproductions are regularly shown which are characterized by the
dominant depiction or description of specified sexual activities or specified
anatomical areas.
   ADULT THEATER. A theater, concert hall, auditorium, or similar commercial
establishment which regularly, commonly, habitually, or consistently features
persons who appear in a state of nudity or semi-nude, or live performances
which are characterized by the exposure of specified anatomical areas or by
specified sexual activities.
   EMPLOYEE. Any person who performs any service on the premises of a sexually
oriented business on a full-time, part-time, or contract basis, whether or not
the person is denominated an employee, independent contractor, agent, or
otherwise and whether or not said person is paid a salary, wage, or other
compensation by the operator of said business. EMPLOYEE does not include a
person exclusively on the premises for repair or maintenance of the premises or
equipment on the premises, or for the delivery of goods to the premises if such
person’s presence is occasional, nor does EMPLOYEE include a person exclusively
on the premises as a patron or customer.
   ESCORT. A person who, for consideration, agrees or offers to act as a
companion, guide, or date for another person, or who agrees or offers to
privately model lingerie or to privately perform a striptease for another
person.
   ESCORT AGENCY. A person or business association who furnishes, offers to
furnish, or advertises to furnish, escorts as one of its primary business
purposes for a fee, tip, or other consideration.
   ESTABLISHMENT. Includes any of the following:
      (1)   The opening or commencement of any sexually oriented business as a
new business;
      (2)   The conversion of an existing business, whether or not a sexually
oriented business, to any sexually oriented business;
      (3)   The additions of any sexually oriented business to any other
existing sexually oriented business;
      (4)   The relocation of any sexually oriented business; or
      (5)   A sexually oriented business or premises on which the sexually
oriented business is located.
   LICENSED DAY-CARE CENTER. A facility licensed by the state and situated
within the county, whether situated within the city or not, that provides care,
training, education, custody, treatment, or supervision for children under 14
years of age, where such children are not related by blood, marriage, or
adoption to the owner or operator of the facility, for less than 24 hours a
day, regardless of whether or not the facility is operated for a profit or
charges for the services it offers.
   LICENSEE. A person in whose name a license to operate a sexually oriented
business has been issued, as well as the individual listed as an applicant on
the application for a license; and in the case of an employee, a person in
whose name a license has been issued authorizing employment in a sexually
oriented business.
   LICENSING BOARD. The City Licensing Board created in § 9-40 of the Code of
Ordinances of the City of Winchester, Kentucky. The enactment of this chapter
by the county delegates and establishes authority in the City Licensing Board,
herein called the LICENSING BOARD, throughout all of the county, as well as the
City of Winchester, Kentucky, for all purposes herein stated in connection with
the implementation of this chapter, the administration of this chapter, and the
issuance of sexually oriented business licenses and sexually oriented business
employee licenses.
   LIVE THEATRICAL PERFORMANCE. A play, skit, opera, ballet, concert, comedy,
or musical drama.
   NUDE MODEL STUDIO. Any place where a person who appears semi-nude, in a
state of nudity, or who displays “specified anatomical areas” and is provided
to be observed, sketched, drawn, painted, sculptured, photographed, or
similarly depicted by other persons who pay money or any form of consideration.
   NUDITY or STATE OF NUDITY. The showing of the human bare buttock, anus, anal
cleft or cleavage, pubic area, male genitals, or vulva with less than a fully
opaque covering; or a female breast with less than a fully opaque covering of
any part of the areola or human male genitals in a discernibly turgid state
even if completely and opaquely covered.
    PERSON. An individual, proprietorship, partnership, corporation,
association, or other legal entity.
   PREMISES. The real property upon which the sexually oriented business is
located, and all appurtenances thereto and buildings thereon, including, but
not limited to, the sexually oriented business, the grounds, private walkways,
and parking lots and/or parking garages adjacent thereto, under the ownership,
control, or supervision of the licensee, as described in the application for a
business license pursuant to §
113.15.
   SEMI-NUDE or SEMI-NUDE CONDITION. The appearance of the female breast below
a horizontal line across the top of the areola at its highest point. This
definition shall include the entire lower portion of the human female breast,
but shall not include any portion of the cleavage of the human female breast,
exhibited by a dress, blouse, skirt, leotard, bathing suit, or other wearing
apparel provided the areola is not exposed in whole or in part.
   SEXUAL ENCOUNTER CENTER. A business or commercial enterprise that, as one of
its principal business purposes, offers for any form of consideration:
      (1)   Physical contact in the form of wrestling or tumbling between
persons of the opposite sex; or
      (2)   Activities between male and female persons and/or persons of the
same sex when one or more of the persons are in a state of nudity or semi-nude.
   SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESS. An adult arcade, adult bookstore, adult video
store, adult cabaret, adult motel, adult motion picture theater, adult theater,
escort agency, nude model studio, or sexual encounter center.
   SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL AREAS.
      (1)   The human male genitals in a discernibly turgid state, even if
completely and opaquely covered; or
      (2)   Less than completely and opaquely covered human genitals, pubic
region, buttocks, or a female breast below a point immediately above the top of
the areola.
   SPECIFIED CRIMINAL ACTIVITY. Any of the following offenses:
      (1)   Prostitution or promotion of prostitution offenses or the offense
of maintaining a house of prostitution found in the state’s Penal Code or other
Kentucky Revised Statutes or federal laws (including those offenses currently
at KRS Chapter 529 and KRS Chapter 233); pornography and/or sexual exploitation
or minors (including those offenses currently at KRS Chapter 531) including
distribution of obscene matter, distribution of obscene matter to minors, using
minors to distribute obscene material; advertising obscene material, promoting
the sale of obscenity, using a minor in a sexual performance, promoting a
sexual performance by a minor, possession of matter portraying a sexual
performance by a minor, distribution of matter portraying a sexual performance
by a minor, promoting the sale of or advertising material portraying a sexual
performance by a minor or using minors to distribute material portraying a
sexual performance by a minor; engaging in organized criminal activity; sexual
offenses found in the state’s Penal Code or other Kentucky Revised Statutes or
federal laws (including those offenses currently at KRS Chapter 510) including
rape, sodomy, sexual abuse, sexual misconduct and indecent exposure;
molestation of child; gambling (including those offenses currently at KRS
Chapter 528); or distribution of, selling, trafficking, or otherwise committing
a prohibited practice concerning a controlled substance (including those
offenses currently at KRS Chapter 218A) other than possession thereof; or any
similar offenses to those described above under the Criminal or penal code of
the United States of America, any state, or any country;
      (2)   For which:
         (a)   Fewer than two years have elapsed since the date of conviction
or the date of release from confinement imposed for the conviction, whichever
is the later date, if the conviction is of a misdemeanor offense;
         (b)   Fewer than five years have elapsed since the date of conviction
or the date of release from confinement for the conviction, whichever is the
later date, if the conviction is of a felony offense; or
         (c)   Fewer than five years have elapsed since the date of the last
conviction or the date of release from confinement for the last conviction,
whichever is the later date, if the convictions are of two or more misdemeanor
offenses or combination of misdemeanor offenses occurring within any 24-month
period.
      (3)   The fact that a conviction is being appealed shall not prevent
disqualification of the applicant.
   SPECIFIED SEXUAL ACTIVITIES. Any of the following:
      (1)   The fondling or other erotic touching of human genitals, pubic
region, buttocks, anus, or female breasts, whether covered or uncovered;
      (2)   Sex acts, normal or perverted, actual or simulated, including
intercourse, oral copulation, or sodomy;
      (3)   Masturbation, actual or simulated; or
      (4)   Excretory functions as part of or in connection with any of the
activities set forth in divisions (1) through (3) above.
   SUBSTANTIAL ENLARGEMENT (of a sexually oriented business). The increase in
floor areas occupied by the business by more than 25%, as the floor areas exist
on the date this chapter takes effect.
   TRANSFER OF OWNERSHIP OR CONTROL (of a sexually oriented business). Includes
any of the following:
      (1)   The sale, lease, or sublease of the business;
      (2)   The transfer of securities which constitutes a 10% or greater
interest in the business, whether by sale, exchange, or similar means; or
      (3)   The establishment of a trust, gift, or other similar legal device
which transfers the ownership or control of at least 10% of the business,
except for transfer by bequest or other operation of law upon the death of the
person possessing the ownership or control.
(Prior Code, § 62.002) (Ord. 2000-11, passed 7-26-2000)
§ 113.03 CLASSIFICATIONS.
   Sexually oriented businesses are classified as follows:
   (A)   Adult arcades;
   (B)   Adult bookstores or adult video stores;
   (C)   Adult cabarets;
   (D)   Adult motels;
   (E)   Adult motion picture theaters;
   (F)   Adult theaters;
   (G)   Escort agencies;
   (H)   Nude model studios; and
   (I)   Sexual encounter centers.
(Prior Code, § 62.003) (Ord. 2000-11, passed 7-26-2000)
LICENSES
§ 113.15 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   (A)   It is unlawful:
      (1)   For any person to operate a sexually oriented business without a
valid sexually oriented business operator’s license issued by the Licensing
Board pursuant to this chapter;
      (2)   For any person who operates a sexually oriented business to employ
a person to work for the sexually oriented business if such employee is not in
possession of a valid sexually oriented business employee license (“employee
license”) issued to such employee by the Licensing Board pursuant to this
chapter;
      (3)   For any person to obtain employment with a sexually oriented
business if such person is not in possession of a valid sexually oriented
business employee license issued to such person by the Licensing Board pursuant
to this chapter;
      (4)   It shall be a defense to divisions (A)(2) and (A)(3) above if the
employment is of limited duration and for the sole purpose of repair and/or
maintenance of machinery, equipment, or the premises; and
      (5)   Violation of any provision of this division (A) shall constitute a
violation.
   (B)   An application for an operator’s or employee’s license must be made on
a form provided by the Licensing Board. The Licensing Board is the City
Licensing Board created in § 9-40 of the Code of Ordinances of the City of
Winchester. For the purpose of implementation and administration of this
chapter, the county designates the City Licensing Board, herein called the
Licensing Board, to act on behalf of the county in the issuance of sexually
oriented business licenses and sexually oriented business employee licenses.
   (C)   All applicants for a license must be qualified according to the
provisions of this chapter. The application may request and the applicant shall
provide such information reasonably necessary (including fingerprints) as to
enable the Licensing Board to determine whether the applicant meets the
qualifications established in this chapter.
   (D)   If a person who wishes to own or operate a sexually oriented business
is an individual, the person must sign the application for a license as
applicant. If a person who wishes to operate a sexually oriented business is
other than an individual, each individual who has a 10% or greater interest in
the business must sign the application for an operator’s license as applicant.
If an owner or operator of a sexually oriented business is other than an
individual, all persons with legal authority over day-to-day policy and/or
operations must sign the application for an operator’s license as applicant. In
the case of a corporation, all officers and directors must sign as applicant.
In the case of a limited liability company or partnership, all managers,
whether members or not, must sign as applicant. In the case of a general
partnership, all partners must sign as applicant unless the written partnership
agreement clearly vests day-to-day policy and management in fewer than all the
partners under applicable law; only those with management or day-to-day policy
authority must sign as applicant. Each applicant must be qualified under the
following section and each applicant shall be considered a licensee if a
license is granted.
   (E)   The completed application for a sexually oriented business operator’s
license shall contain the following information and shall be accompanied by the
following documents:
      (1)   If the applicant is:
         (a)   An individual, the individual shall state his or her legal name
and any aliases or other names ever used by such person and submit proof that
he or she is at least 18 years of age;
         (b)   A partnership, the partnership shall state its complete name,
and the names of all partners, whether the partnership is general or limited,
and a copy of the partnership agreement if any;
         (c)   A corporation, the corporation shall state its complete name,
the date of its incorporation, evidence that the corporation is in good
standing under the laws of its state of incorporation, the names and capacity
of all officers, directors, and stockholders, and the name of the registered
corporate agent and the address of the registered office for service of
process; and
         (d)   A limited liability company (LLC), the LLC shall state its
complete name, the date of its organization, evidence that the LLC is in good
standing under the laws of its state of organization and is authorized to do
business in the state, the names and capacity of all managers, officers,
directors, and members, a copy of the operating agreement, if any, and the name
of the registered agent and the address of the registered office for service of
process.
      (2)   The name under which the establishment is to be operated and a
general description of the services to be provided. If the applicant intends to
operate the sexually oriented business under a name other than that of the
applicant, he or she must state the sexually oriented business’s assumed name,
and submit the required registration of documents;
      (3)   Whether the applicant has been convicted of a specified criminal
activity as defined in §
113.02, and, if so, the specified criminal activity involved, the date, place,
and jurisdiction of each;
      (4)   Whether the applicant has had a previous license under this chapter
or other similar sexually oriented business ordinances from another city or
county denied, suspended, or revoked, including the name and location of the
sexually oriented business for which the permit was denied, suspended, or
revoked, as well as the date of the denial, suspension, or revocation, and
whether the applicant has been a partner in a partnership or an officer,
director, or stockholder of a corporation or limited liability company that is
licensed under this chapter whose license has previously been denied,
suspended, or revoked, including the name and location of the sexually oriented
business for which the permit was denied, suspended, or revoked as well as the
date of denial, suspension, or revocation;
      (5)   Whether the applicant holds any other licenses under this chapter
or other similar sexually oriented business ordinance from another city or
county and, if so, the names and locations of such other licensed business;
      (6)   The single classification, as found in §
113.03, of a license for which the applicant is filing;
      (7)   The location of the proposed sexually oriented business, including
a legal description of the property, street address, and the name, address, and
telephone number(s), if any, of the owner(s) of the property. If the applicant
is not the owner of the property, the applicant must include a copy of the
lease for the premises which extends to or beyond the term of the license
applied for;
      (8)   The applicant’s street address and mailing address, if different;
      (9)   A recent photograph of the applicant(s);
      (10)   The applicant’s driver’s license number, Social Security number,
and/or its state and federal issued tax identification numbers;
      (11)   A sketch or diagram showing the configuration of the premises,
including a statement of total floor space occupied by the business. The sketch
or diagram need not be professionally prepared, but it must be drawn to a
designated scale or drawn with marked dimensions of the interior of the
premises to an accuracy of plus or minus six inches. The premises will be
inspected by the Health Department, Building Inspector, and Zoning Department,
but a provisional license may be granted before inspections are completed as
hereinafter specified in §
113.18;
      (12)   A current certificate and straight-line drawing prepared within 30
days prior to application by a Kentucky registered engineer or land surveyor
depicting the property lines and the structures containing any existing
sexually oriented businesses within 1,000 feet of the property to be certified
and the property lines of any established licensed day-care center, religious
institution/synagogue, school, or public park, recreation area, or residential
area (all as more specifically set out in §
113.24(C)) within 500 feet of the property to be certified. For purposes of
this section, a use shall be considered existing or established if it is in
existence at the time an application is submitted;
      (13)   If an applicant wishes to operate a sexually oriented business,
other than an adult motel, which shall exhibit on the premises, in a viewing
room or booth of less than 150 square feet of floor space, films, video
cassettes, other video reproductions, or live entertainment which depict
specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas, then the applicant
shall comply with the application requirements set forth in §
113.41 in addition to the foregoing requirements; and
      (14)   Any of the items other than divisions (E)(1) and (E)(8) above
shall not be required for a renewal application if the applicant states that
the documents previously furnished remain correct and current unless the
Licensing Board makes specific requests for resubmittal for good cause shown.
   (F)   (1)   Before any applicant may be issued a sexually oriented business
employee license, the applicant shall submit on a form to be provided by the
Licensing Board the following information:
         (a)   The applicant’s name or any other name (including “stage names”)
or aliases now or theretofore used by the individual;
         (b)   Age, date, and place of birth;
         (c)   Height, weight, hair, and eye color;
         (d)   Present business address and telephone number;
         (e)   Date, issuing state, and number of driver’s license or other
state issued identification card information;
         (f)   Social Security number; and
         (g)   Proof that the individual is at least 18 years of age.
      (2)   The personal information provided in an employee application shall
be confidential and shall not be disclosed to the public except as necessary to
enforce the license terms of this chapter or to the extent required by law.
   (G)   Attached to the application form for a sexually oriented business
employee or operator license as provided above, shall be the following:
      (1)   A color photograph of the applicant clearly showing the applicant’s
face and the applicant’s fingerprints on a form provided by the Police
Department. Any fees for the photographs and fingerprints shall be paid by the
applicant;
      (2)   A statement detailing the license history of the applicant for the
five years immediately preceding the date of the filing of the application,
including whether such applicant previously operated or is seeking to operate,
in this or any other county, city, state, or country, or has ever had a
license, permit, or authority to do business denied, revoked, or suspended, or
had any professional or vocational license or permit denied, revoked, or
suspended. In the event of any such denial, revocation, or suspension, state
the name, the name of the issuing or denying jurisdiction, and describe in full
the reason for the denial, revocation, or suspension. A copy of any order of
denial, revocation, or suspension shall be attached to the application; and
      (3)   A statement whether the applicant has been convicted, within the
past five years, of a specified criminal activity as defined in §
113.02 and, if so, the specified criminal activity involved, the date, place,
and jurisdiction of each.
   (H)   An applicant for any license under this chapter has a continuing,
affirmative duty to provide correct information and to provide supplemental
information subsequent to the initial submission so that all application
information is correct at all times during the license.
   (I)   Every application for a license under this chapter shall contain a
statement under oath that:
      (1)   The applicant (and each person required to sign the application)
has personal knowledge of the information contained in the application and that
the information contained therein and furnished therewith is true and correct;
and
      (2)   The applicant (and each person required to sign the application)
has read the provisions of this division (I).
   (J)   A separate application and operator’s license shall be required for
each sexually oriented business classification as set forth in §
113.03.
(Prior Code, § 62.100) (Ord. 2000-11, passed 7-26-2000) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.16 ISSUANCE OF LICENSE.
   Once a license application is complete, it shall be considered by the
Licensing Board in the manner set forth in the code of ordinances of the City
of Winchester and hereinbelow. The provisions of this chapter shall control to
the extent that there is an inconsistency with any other sections of the code
of ordinances of the City of Winchester pertaining to the City Licensing Board.
   (A)   (1)   Within 15 calendar days after receipt of a completed sexually
oriented business or sexually oriented business employee application, the
Licensing Board shall either:
         (a)   Approve or deny the issuance of a license to an applicant; or
         (b)   Shall issue a provisional license pending the completion of the
licensing process.
      (2)   For these purposes, completion of the licensing process shall
include review by the legislative body, if it grants a review of exceptions,
and the exhaustion of legal remedies by the applicant. The Licensing Board
shall approve the issuance of a license to an applicant unless it determines by
a preponderance of the evidence that there is good cause for such denial. A
sexually oriented business operator’s or employee’s license may be denied only
for good cause.
   (B)   Good cause to deny a sexually oriented business employee license may
consist of, but is not limited to, any one of the following:
      (1)   The applicant has failed to provide information reasonably
necessary for issuance of the license or has falsely answered a question or
request for information on the application form;
      (2)   The applicant is under the age of 18 years;
      (3)   The applicant has been convicted of a “specified criminal activity”
as defined in §
113.02;
      (4)   The sexually oriented business employee license is to be used for
employment in a business prohibited by local ordinance, state law, statute,
rule or regulation, or prohibited by a particular provision of this chapter;
      (5)   The applicant has been denied a sexually oriented business employee
license by the city or county within 12 months of the date of the current
application or the applicant’s sexually oriented business employee license has
been revoked within the preceding 12 months; or
      (6)   The license fee required by this chapter has not been paid.
   (C)   Good cause to deny a sexually oriented business operator’s license may
consist of, but is not limited to, one or more of the following:
      (1)   An applicant has failed to provide information reasonably necessary
for issuance of the license or has falsely answered a question or request for
information on the application form;
      (2)   An applicant is under 18 years of age;
      (3)   An applicant has been convicted of a “specified criminal activity”
as defined in §
113.02;
      (4)   The premises to be used for the sexually oriented business have not
been approved by the Health Department, Fire Department, and the Building
Official as being in compliance with applicable laws and ordinances or a
requisite state certificate of occupancy has not been received. It is provided,
however, that the failure of the Health Department, Fire Department, or state
or local Building Official to act in a timely fashion will not be good cause to
deny the issuance of a provisional license pending the receipt of the necessary
action by such department or official;
      (5)   An applicant has been denied a license by the city or county to
operate a sexually oriented business within the preceding 12 months or the
applicant’s license to operate a sexually oriented business has been revoked
within the preceding 12 months;
      (6)   The license fee required by this chapter has not been paid; and/or
      (7)   An applicant of the proposed establishment is in violation of or is
not in compliance with any of the provisions of this chapter.
   (D)   A license granted pursuant to this chapter shall be subject to annual
renewal upon the written application of the applicant and a finding by the
Licensing Board or legislative body that the applicant has not been convicted
of any specified criminal activity as defined in §
113.02 or committed any other act during the existence of the previous license
which would be good cause to deny the license renewal. The renewal of the
license shall be subject to the payment of the fee as set forth in §
113.17.
   (E)   If the license application is approved by the Licensing Board, a
provisional license shall be granted until the later of 30 days after such
approval or until final action (including the exhaustion of all remedies by the
applicant) has been taken on such application.
      (1)   A citizen who deems himself or herself aggrieved by Licensing Board
approval may file exceptions with the Winchester City Clerk within 30 days
after an application is approved but such exceptions shall be limited to one or
more of the enumerated elements of good cause in divisions (B) or (C) above.
      (2)   The appropriate legislative body (the Board of Commissioners of the
City of Winchester, if the application is for an employee license or a business
license and the business or place of employment is to be located within the
corporate limits of the City of Winchester, or, if not, the County Fiscal
Court) shall consider the exceptions at its next regular meeting which is
convened at least five days after the end of the 30-day exception period. At
such meeting, the legislative body may refuse to hear the exceptions or it may
set the exceptions for a hearing by the legislative body at a regular or
special meeting which shall be conducted within 30 days thereafter. After
hearing the exceptions, the legislative body shall either dismiss the
exceptions or shall remand the matter for further consideration by the
Licensing Board. Upon remand, the Licensing Board shall limit its inquiry to
the issues stated in the remand order and it may reverse its earlier approval
only after making findings of fact that its earlier approval was clearly
erroneous. Exceptions may be heard only one time for each application or
renewal.
   (F)   The license, if granted, shall state on its face the name of the
person or persons to whom it is granted, the expiration date, the address of
the sexually oriented business, and the classification for which the license is
issued pursuant to §
113.03. All licenses shall be posted in a conspicuous place at or near the
entrance to the sexually oriented business so that they may be easily read at
any time. When engaged in employment or performing services on the sexually
oriented business premises, an employee shall, at all times, possess the
license in such manner as to be available for immediate inspection upon lawful
request.
   (G)   The Health Department, Fire Department, and local Building Official
shall complete their certification that the premises are in compliance or not
in compliance within a reasonable time (usually not to exceed ten days of
receipt of the application by the Licensing Board).
   (H)   Denial, suspension, or revocation of a license issued pursuant to this
chapter shall be subject to appeal as set forth in §
113.22. An applicant shall be given written notice of the denial, suspension,
or revocation and the reasons therefor.
(Prior Code, § 62.101) (Ord. 2000-11, passed 7-26-2000)
§ 113.17 FEES.
   (A)   Every application for a sexually oriented business operator’s license
(whether for a new license or for a renewal of an existing license) shall be
accompanied by a $250 non-refundable application and investigation fee.
   (B)   In addition to the application and investigation fee required in
division (A) above, every sexually oriented business that is granted a license
(new or renewal) shall pay to the Licensing Board an annual non-refundable
license fee of $800 before license issuance or renewal.
   (C)   Every application for a sexually oriented business employee license
(whether for a new license or for renewal of an existing license) shall be
accompanied by a $200 non-refundable application and investigation fee.
   (D)   In addition to the application and investigation fee required in
division (C) above, every sexually oriented business employee who is granted a
license (new or renewal) shall pay to the Licensing Board an annual non-
refundable license fee of $300 before license issuance or renewal.
   (E)   All license applications and fees shall be submitted to the Winchester
City Clerk, as agent of the Winchester Licensing Board, whether the business is
to be conducted within or without the city limits of Winchester. The City Clerk
shall promptly remit to the County Treasurer all license fees, other than
application fees, for businesses or employment to be conducted outside the city
limits. If an employee license is issued to a person for employment in a
sexually oriented business in both the city and county, the City Clerk shall
remit one-half of the license fee, other than the application and investigation
fee.
   (F)   Fees shall be prorated, in increments no smaller than one month, if
the license is for fewer than 12 months.
(Prior Code, § 62.102) (Ord. 2000-11, passed 7-26-2000)
§ 113.18 INSPECTION.
   (A)   An applicant shall, at reasonable times, permit representatives of the
County Sheriff’s Department, Winchester or State Police Department, County
Health Department, Winchester or County Fire Department, Winchester-Clark
County Planning and Zoning and Winchester Code Enforcement Department, or other
city or county departments or agencies to inspect the premises of a sexually
oriented business for the purpose of determining eligibility for a license if
the premises are not theretofore licensed.
   (B)   The city and county authorities shall regularly inspect the premises
of the sexually oriented business in order to determine compliance with the
provisions of this chapter. An applicant or licensee shall permit
representatives of the Police Department and/or Health Department to inspect
the premises at any time the establishment is open for business. Such
inspection shall be limited to visual assessment of the activities conducted in
areas to which patrons have access or are allowed access; to requests for
inspection of the licenses required under this chapter; and to requests for
identification of those individuals who reasonably appear to be under the age
of 18.
   (C)    A person who operates a sexually oriented business or his or her
agent or employee commits a violation if he or she refuses to permit such
lawful inspection of the premises at any time it is open for business.
(Prior Code, § 62.103) (Ord. 2000-11, passed 7-26-2000) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.19 EXPIRATION AND NON-RENEWAL OF LICENSE.
   (A)   Each license shall expire on June 30 of each year and may be renewed
only by making application as provided in §
113.15. Application for renewal shall be made at least 30 days before the
expiration date, and when made less than 30 days before the expiration date,
the expiration of the license will not be delayed.
   (B)   When the Licensing Board denies renewal of a license, the applicant
shall not be issued a license for one year from the date of denial.
Notwithstanding the provisions of this section, in the event a licensee appeals
the non-renewal of a license, the status quo immediately prior to a non-renewal
shall be maintained throughout the pendency of the appeal, up to and including
judicial review of the merits.
(Prior Code, § 62.104) (Ord. 2000-11, passed 7-26-2000)
§ 113.20 SUSPENSION.
   (A)   The Licensing Board shall suspend a license for a period not to exceed
30 days if it determines that a licensee or an employee of a licensee has:
      (1)   Violated or is not in compliance with any section of this chapter;
or
      (2)   Refused to allow an inspection of the sexually oriented business
premises as authorized in §
113.18.
   (B)   Notwithstanding the provisions of this section, in the event a
licensee appeals the suspension of a license, the status quo immediately prior
to suspension shall be maintained throughout the pendency of the appeal, up to
and including judicial review on the merits.
(Prior Code, § 62.105) (Ord. 2000-11, passed 7-26-2000)
§ 113.21 REVOCATION.
   (A)   The Licensing Board shall revoke a license if a cause of suspension in
§
113.20 occurs and the licensee’s license has been suspended within the
preceding 12 months.
   (B)   The Licensing Board shall revoke a license if it determines that:
      (1)   A licensee gave materially false or misleading information in the
material submitted during the application process;
      (2)   A licensee has knowingly allowed possession, use, or sale of
marijuana, controlled substances, or alcoholic beverages on the premises;
      (3)   A licensee has knowingly allowed prostitution on the premises;
      (4)   A licensee has knowingly operated the sexually oriented business
during a period of time when the licensee’s license was suspended;
      (5)   Except in the case of an adult motel, a licensee has knowingly
allowed any act of sexual intercourse, sodomy, oral copulation, masturbation,
or other sex act or specified sexual activity to occur in or on the licensed
premises;
      (6)   A licensee is delinquent in payment to the city or county for any
taxes, fees, fines, or penalties relating to the sexually oriented business or
the premises thereon and does not pay the same within 30 days of request;
      (7)   A licensee was convicted of a specified criminal activity on a
charge that was pending prior to the issuance of the license;
      (8)   A licensee has, with knowledge, permitted person under 18 years of
age to enter or remain in the establishment; or
      (9)   A licensee has attempted to sell his or her business license, or
has sold, assigned, or transferred ownership or control of the sexually
oriented business to a non-licensee of the establishment.
   (C)   When the Licensing Board revokes a license, the revocation shall
continue for one year, and the licensee shall not be issued a sexually oriented
business license for one year from the date the revocation became effective.
   (D)   Notwithstanding the provisions of this section, in the event a
licensee appeals the revocation of a license, the status quo immediately prior
to revocation shall be maintained throughout the pendency of the appeal, up to
and including judicial review on the merits.
(Prior Code, § 62.106) (Ord. 2000-11, passed 7-26-2000)
§ 113.22 HEARING DE NOVO; JUDICIAL REVIEW.
   After denial of approval of an application, or denial of a renewal of an
application, or suspension or revocation of any license by the Licensing Board,
an aggrieved party (the applicant or licensee if the license was denied,
suspended, or revoked or renewal was denied; or a citizen of Winchester, or the
county, as the case may be, if the license was granted or renewed or if
suspension or revocation of a license was denied after proceedings therefor)
may request a hearing de novo before the Board of Commissioners of the City of
Winchester or the County Fiscal Court, as the case may be, by filing a written
request stating the grounds therefor within five days after the action of the
Licensing Board was communicated to the applicant or licensee by depositing
same in the U.S. mail with the required postage thereon. The hearing de novo,
limited to the grounds stated in the request for hearing, must be held within
ten days after the action by the Licensing Board. The legislative body will not
overturn a finding of fact of the Licensing Board unless same is found to be
clearly erroneous. If the denial, suspension, or revocation is upheld by the
legislative body, the applicant may seek judicial review of the administrative
action in any court of competent jurisdiction and upon timely application for
such review, a provisional license shall be granted until the review is
completed or until a restraining order is entered.
(Prior Code, § 62.107) (Ord. 2000-11, passed 7-26-2000)
§ 113.23 TRANSFER OF LICENSE.
   A licensee shall not transfer his or her license to another, nor shall a
licensee operate a sexually oriented business under the authority of a license
at any place other than the address designated in the application unless the
transfer is approved by the Licensing Board.
(Prior Code, § 62.108) (Ord. 2000-11, passed 7-26-2000)
§ 113.24 LOCATION OF SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESS.
   (A)   A license may not be granted for a sexually oriented business to be
operated in any zoning district other than B-3, B-4, or I-1, as defined and
described in the revised zoning code for the county and the City of Winchester.
   (B)   A person commits a violation if that person operates or causes to be
operated a sexually oriented business in any zoning district other than B-3, B-
4, or I-1, as defined and described in the revised zoning code for the county
and the City of Winchester.
   (C)   A person commits a violation if the person operates or causes to be
operated a sexually oriented business within 500 feet of:
      (1)   A church, synagogue, mosque, temple, or building which is used
primarily for religious worship and related religious activities;
      (2)   A public or private educational facility, including, but not
limited to, licensed day-care facilities or other child care facilities,
nursery schools, preschools, kindergartens, elementary schools, private
schools, intermediate schools, junior high schools, middle schools, high
schools, vocational schools, secondary schools, continuation schools, special
education schools, junior colleges, and universities; school includes the
school grounds, but does not include facilities used primarily for another
purpose and only incidentally as a school;
      (3)   A boundary of a residential district as defined in the revised
zoning code for the county and the City of Winchester, or the property line of
a lot devoted to a residential use (e.g., planned development with a
residential use); or
      (4)    A public park or recreational area which has been designated for
park or recreational activities including, but not limited to, a park,
playground, nature trails, swimming pool, reservoir, athletic field, basketball
or tennis courts, pedestrian/bicycle paths, wilderness areas, or other similar
public land within the county which is under the control, operation, or
management of the city or county park and recreation authorities.
   (D)   A person commits a violation if that person causes or permits the
operation, establishment, substantial enlargement, or transfer of ownership or
control of a sexually oriented business within 1,000 feet of another sexually
oriented business.
   (E)    A person commits a violation if that person causes or permits the
operation, establishment, or maintenance of more than one sexually oriented
business in the same building, structure, or portion thereof, or the increase
of floor area of any sexually oriented business in any building, structure, or
portion thereof containing another sexually oriented business.
   (F)   For the purpose of division (C) above, measurement shall be made in a
straight line, without regard to the intervening structures or objects, from
the nearest portion of the building or structure used as the part of the
premises where a sexually oriented business is conducted, to the nearest
property line of the premises of a use listed in division (C) above. Presence
of a city, county, or other political subdivision boundary shall be irrelevant
for purposes of calculating and applying the distance requirements of this
section.
   (G)   For purposes of division (D) above, the distance between any two
sexually oriented businesses shall be measured in a straight line, without
regard to the intervening structures or objects or political boundaries, from
the closest exterior wall of the structure in which each business is located.
   (H)   Any sexually oriented business lawfully operating on the effective
date of this chapter that is in violation of divisions (B) through (G) above
shall be deemed a nonconforming license. The nonconforming license will be
permitted to continue for a period not to exceed one year, unless sooner
terminated for any reason or voluntarily discontinued for a period of 30 days
or more. Such nonconforming licenses shall not be increased, enlarged,
extended, or altered except that the license may be changed to a conforming
license if the requirements therefor are complied with. If two or more sexually
oriented businesses are within 1,000 feet of one another and otherwise in a
permissible location, the sexually oriented business which was first
established and continually operating at a particular location is the
conforming license and the later established business(es) is/are nonconforming.
   (I)   A sexually oriented business lawfully operating as conforming is not
rendered nonconforming by the location, subsequent to the grant or renewal of
the sexually oriented business license, of a license for a use listed in
division (C) above within 500 feet of the sexually oriented business. This
provision applies only to the renewal of a valid license, and does not apply
when an application for a license is submitted after a license has expired or
been revoked.
   (J)   For purposes of this section, PERSON includes the officers, directors,
and managing members or partners of a business entity.
(Prior Code, § 62.109) (Ord. 2000-11, passed 7-26-2000) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.25 INJUNCTION.
   A person who operates or causes to be operated a sexually oriented business
without a valid license or in violation of the provisions of §§
113.61 or
113.62 is subject to a suit for injunction as well as prosecution for violation
and suspension or revocation of license.
(Prior Code, § 62.110) (Ord. 2000-11, passed 7-26-2000)
REGULATIONS; VIOLATIONS
§ 113.40 ADDITIONAL REGULATIONS FOR ADULT MOTELS.
   (A)   Evidence that a sleeping room in a hotel, motel, or a similar
commercial establishment has been rented and vacated two or more times in a
period of time that is less than ten hours creates a rebuttable presumption
that the establishment is an adult motel as that term is defined in §
113.02.
   (B)   A person commits a violation if, as the person in control of a
sleeping room in a hotel, motel, or similar establishment that does not have a
sexually oriented license, he or she rents or subrents a sleeping room to a
person and, within ten hours from the time the room is rented, he or she rents
or subrents the same sleeping room again.
   (C)   For purposes of division (B) above, the terms RENT or SUBRENT mean the
act of permitting a room to be occupied for any form of consideration.
(Prior Code, § 62.200) (Ord. 2000-11, passed 7-26-2000)
§ 113.41 VIEWING ROOM EXHIBITION REGULATIONS.
   (A)   A person who operates or causes to be operated a sexually oriented
business, other than an adult motel, which exhibits on the premises in a
viewing room of less than 150 square feet of floor space, a film, video
cassette, live entertainment, or other video reproduction which depicts
specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas, shall comply with
the following requirements.
      (1)   Upon application for a sexually oriented business license, the
application shall be accompanied by a diagram of the premises showing a plan
thereof specifying the location of one or more manager’s stations and the
location of all overhead lighting fixtures and designating any portion of the
premises in which patrons will not be permitted. A manager’s station may not
exceed 32 square feet of floor area. The diagram shall also designate the place
at which the permit will be conspicuously posted, if granted. A professionally
prepared diagram in the nature of an engineer’s or architect’s blueprint shall
not be required; however, each diagram should be oriented to the north or to
some designated street or object and should be drawn to a designated scale or
with marked dimensions sufficient to show the various internal dimensions of
all areas of the interior of the premises to an accuracy of plus or minus six
inches. The Licensing Board may waive the foregoing diagram for renewal
applications if the applicant adopts a diagram that was previously submitted
and certifies that the configuration of the premises has not been altered since
it was prepared.
      (2)   The application shall be sworn to be true and correct by the
applicant.
      (3)   No alteration in the configuration or location of a manager’s
station may be made without the prior approval of the Licensing Board.
      (4)   It is the duty of the licensee of the premises to ensure that at
least one licensed employee is on duty and situated in each manager’s station
at all times that any patron is present inside the premises.
      (5)   The interior of the premises shall be configured in such a manner
that there is an unobstructed view from a manager’s station of every area of
the premises to which any patron is permitted access for any purpose, excluding
restrooms. Restrooms may not contain video reproduction equipment. If the
premises has two or more manager’s stations designated, then the interior of
the premises shall be configured in such a manner that there is an unobstructed
view of each area of the premises to which any patron is permitted access for
any purpose from at least one of the manager’s stations. The view required in
this division must be by direct line of sight from the manager’s station.
      (6)   It shall be the duty of the licensee to ensure that the view area
specified in division (A)(5) above remains unobstructed by any doors, curtains,
partitions, walls, merchandise, display racks, or other materials and, at all
times, to ensure that no patron is permitted access to any area of the premises
which has been designated as an area in which patrons will not be permitted in
the application filed pursuant to division (A)(1) above.
      (7)   No viewing room may be occupied by more than one person at any
time.
      (8)   The premises shall be equipped with overhead lighting fixtures of
sufficient intensity to illuminate every place to which patrons are permitted
access at an illumination of not less than five foot candles measured at the
floor level.
      (9)   It shall be the duty of the licensee to ensure that the
illumination described above is maintained at all times that any patron is
present in the premises.
      (10)   No licensee shall allow openings of any kind to exist between
viewing rooms or booths.
      (11)   No person shall make or attempt to make an opening of any kind
between viewing booths or rooms.
      (12)   The licensee shall, during each business day, regularly inspect
the walls between the viewing booths to determine if any openings or holes
exist.
      (13)   The licensee shall cause all floor coverings in viewing booths to
be nonporous, easily cleanable surfaces, with no rugs or carpeting.
      (14)   The licensee shall cause all wall surfaces and ceiling surfaces in
viewing booths to be constructed of, or permanently covered by, nonporous,
easily cleanable material. No wood, plywood, composition board, or other porous
material shall be used within 48 inches of the floor.
   (B)   A person having a duty under divisions (A)(1) through (A)(14) above
commits a violation if he or she knowingly fails to fulfill that duty.
KNOWINGLY includes both actual knowledge and a lack of actual knowledge if an
ordinarily prudent person would have acquired knowledge under the
circumstances.
(Prior Code, § 62.201) (Ord. 2000-11, passed 7-26-2000) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.42 ADDITIONAL REGULATIONS FOR ESCORT AGENCIES.
   (A)   An escort agency shall not employ any person under the age of 18
years.
   (B)   A person commits a violation if a person under the age of 18 years
acts as an escort or if a person agrees to act as an escort for any person
under the age of 18 years.
(Prior Code, § 62.202) (Ord. 2000-11, passed 7-26-2000) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.43 ADDITIONAL REGULATIONS FOR NUDE MODEL STUDIOS.
   (A)   A nude model studio shall not employ any person under the age of 18
years.
   (B)   A person under the age of 18 years commits a violation if the person
appears semi-nude or in a state of nudity in or on the premises of a nude model
studio. It is a defense to prosecution under this division (B) if the person
under 18 years was in a restroom not open to public view or visible to any
other person.
   (C)   A person commits a violation if the person appears in a state of
nudity, or knowingly allows another to appear in a state of nudity in an area
of a nude model studio premises which can be viewed from the public right-of-
way.
   (D)    A nude model studio shall not place or permit a bed, sofa, or
mattress in any room on the premises, except that a sofa may be placed in a
reception room open to the public.
(Prior Code, § 62.203) (Ord. 2000-11, passed 7-26-2000) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.44 ADDITIONAL REGULATIONS CONCERNING PUBLIC NUDITY.
   (A)   It shall be a violation for a person who knowingly and intentionally,
in a sexually oriented business, appears in a state of nudity or depicts
specified sexual activities.
   (B)   It shall be a violation for a person who knowingly or intentionally,
in a sexually oriented business, appears in a semi-nude condition unless the
person is an employee who, while semi-nude, shall be at least ten feet from any
patron or customer and on a stage at least two feet from the floor.
   (C)   It shall be a violation for an employee, while semi-nude in a sexually
oriented business, to solicit any pay or gratuity from any patron or customer
or for any patron or customer to pay or give any gratuity to any employee,
while the employee is semi-nude in a sexually oriented business.
   (D)   It shall be a violation for an employee, while semi-nude, to touch a
customer or the clothing of a customer.
   (E)   KNOWINGLY includes both actual knowledge or a lack of actual knowledge
if an ordinarily prudent person would have acquired knowledge under the
circumstances.
(Prior Code, § 62.204) (Ord. 2000-11, passed 7-26-2000) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.45 EXTERIOR PORTIONS OF SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESSES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for an owner or operator of a sexually oriented
business to allow the merchandise or activities of the establishment to be
visible from a point outside the establishment.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for the owner or operator of a sexually oriented
business to allow the exterior portion of the sexually oriented business to
have flashing lights, or any words, lettering, photographs, silhouettes,
drawings, or pictorial representations of any manner except to the extent
permitted by the provisions of this chapter.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for the owner or operator of a sexually oriented
business to allow exterior portions of the establishment to be painted any
color other than a single achromatic color. This provision shall not apply to a
sexually oriented business if the following conditions are met:
      (1)   The establishment is a part of a commercial multi-unit center; and
      (2)   The exterior portions of each individual unit in the commercial
multi-unit center, including the exterior portions of the business, are painted
the same color as one another or are painted in such a way so as to be a
component of the overall architectural style or pattern of the commercial
multi-unit center.
   (D)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to require the painting of
an otherwise unpainted exterior portion of a sexually oriented business.
   (E)   A violation of any provision of this section shall constitute a
violation.
(Prior Code, § 62.205) (Ord. 2000-11, passed 7-26-2000) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.46 SIGNAGE.
   (A)   Notwithstanding any other applicable statute, ordinance, code, or
regulation to the contrary, it shall be unlawful for the operator of any
sexually oriented business or any other person to erect, construct, or maintain
any sign for the sexually oriented business other than as provided herein.
   (B)   The sign shall have no more than two display surfaces. Each such
display surface shall:
      (1)   Not contain any flashing lights;
      (2)   Contain no photographs, silhouettes, drawings, or pictorial
representations which in any manner depict any part of the nude or semi-nude
human body or specified anatomical areas or specified sexual activities as
defined in §
113.02, whether nude or not; and
      (3)   Contain no form of the words “sex” or “nude” or any other words
alluding to specified anatomical areas or specified sexual activities as
defined in §
113.02.
   (C)   Violation of any provision of this section shall constitute a
violation.
(Prior Code, § 62.206) (Ord. 2000-11, passed 7-26-2000) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.47 EXEMPTIONS.
   It is a defense to prosecution under §
113.43 that a person appearing in a state of nudity did so in a modeling class
operated:
   (A)   By a proprietary school, licensed by the state; a college, junior
college, or university supported entirely or partly by taxation;
   (B)   By a private college or university which maintains and operates
educational programs in which credits are transferable to a college, junior
college, or university supported entirely or partly by taxation; or
   (C)   In a structure:
      (1)   Which has no signs visible from the exterior of the structure and
no other advertising that indicates a nude person is available for viewing;
      (2)   Where, in order to participate in a class a student must enroll at
least three days in advance of the class; and
      (3)   Where no more than one nude model is on the premises at any one
time.
(Prior Code, § 62.207) (Ord. 2000-11, passed 7-26-2000)
PROHIBITIONS
§ 113.60 ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES PROHIBITED.
   (A)   The sale, use, or consumption of alcoholic beverages on the premises
of a sexually oriented business is prohibited.
   (B)   Any violation of this section shall constitute a violation.
(Prior Code, § 62.300) (Ord. 2000-11, passed 7-26-2000) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.61 MASSAGES OR BATHS ADMINISTERED BY PERSON OF OPPOSITE SEX.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any sexually oriented business, regardless of
whether in a public or private facility, to operate as a massage salon, massage
parlor, or any similar type business where any physical contact with the
recipient of such services is provided by a person of the opposite sex.
   (B)   Violation of this section shall constitute a violation.
(Prior Code, § 62.301) (Ord. 2000-11, passed 7-26-2000) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.62 PROHIBITION AGAINST CHILDREN IN SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESS.
   A person commits a violation if the person knowingly allows a person under
the age of 18 years on the premises of a sexually oriented business. KNOWINGLY
includes both actual knowledge or a lack of actual knowledge if an ordinarily
prudent person would have acquired knowledge under the circumstances.
(Prior Code, § 62.302) (Ord. 2000-11, passed 7-26-2000) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.63 HOURS OF OPERATION.
   (A)   No sexually oriented business, except for an adult motel, may remain
open at any time between the hours of midnight and 8:00 a.m., except that
premises may remain open from midnight until 1:00 a.m. Saturday and Sunday and,
notwithstanding the foregoing, the premises may not be open during the 23 hours
of Sunday beginning at 1:01 a.m.
   (B)   A violation of this section shall constitute a violation.
(Prior Code, § 62.303) (Ord. 2000-11, passed 7-26-2000) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.99 PENALTY.
   Violations of the provisions of this chapter shall be punishable as
permitted by the Kentucky Revised Statutes. Each day a sexually oriented
business so operates is a separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 62.999) (Ord. 2000-11, passed 7-26-2000)
CHAPTER 114: ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
Section
   
114.01   License required
   
114.02   State license prerequisite to county license
   
114.03   Local approval required before application for state license
   
114.04   Types of business licenses
   
114.05   Quotas
   
114.06   License period; prorating and abatement of fees
   
114.07   Persons who may not be licensed
   
114.08   Premises for which licenses not to be issued
   
114.09   Conspicuous posting required
   
114.10   Duplicates
   
114.11   Conditions to which license subject
   
114.12   Transferability
   
114.13   Disposition of taxes and forfeited bonds
   
114.14   Sunday alcohol sales
 
   
114.99   Penalty
§ 114.01 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   No person within the county, but outside the corporate boundaries of the
City of Winchester, shall vend, sell, deal, or traffic, or, for the purpose of
evading any law or provision of this chapter, give away any intoxicating liquor
in any quantity whatever, or cause the same to be done, without having procured
a license as provided in this chapter, nor without complying with all
provisions of this and all statutes, ordinances, and regulations applicable
thereto.
(Prior Code, § 63.001) (Ord. 2001-11, passed 10-15-2001) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.02 STATE LICENSE PREREQUISITE TO COUNTY LICENSE.
   Except as provided in §
114.03, no license provided for in this chapter shall be granted, issued, or
sold to any person until such person shall have obtained from the state
administrator a license as provided by state law.
(Prior Code, § 63.002) (Ord. 2001-11, passed 10-15-2001)
§ 114.03 LOCAL APPROVAL REQUIRED BEFORE APPLICATION FOR STATE LICENSE.
   Any person intending to make application for a premises within the county,
or for the transfer of any existing retail drink license, shall first make an
application with and obtain the approval of the county alcoholic beverage
control administrator as hereinafter provided before making application with
the state Alcoholic Beverage Control Board.
(Prior Code, § 63.003) (Ord. 2001-11, passed 10-15-2001)
§ 114.04 TYPES OF BUSINESS LICENSES.
   There are hereby created those types of alcoholic beverage licenses as now
may be permitted under state law, including, but not limited to, KRS 243.060
and as hereafter may be provided for by statutory revision or repeal. Business
that may be conducted by the licensee of these licenses shall be as defined by
state statute. It is the intent of the County Fiscal Court to provide for
licenses and license fees for all categories of alcoholic beverage licenses as
permitted by state law. The fees for each such license shall be set at 50%.
(Prior Code, § 63.004) (Ord. 2016-13, passed 9-14-2016)
§ 114.05 QUOTAS.
   Quotas for the various licenses authorized by this chapter shall be those
from time to time fixed by regulations of the state Alcoholic Beverage Control
Board adopted pursuant to KRS 241.060 and other applicable laws.
(Prior Code, § 63.005) (Ord. 2001-11, passed 10-15-2001)
§ 114.06 LICENSE PERIOD; PRORATING AND ABATEMENT OF FEES.
   All licenses issued pursuant to this chapter shall expire on dates as set
forth in KRS 243.090(1) of the provisions of the state’s Alcoholic Beverage
Control Law, being KRS Chapters 241 through 244, the regulations promulgated
thereunder, and all amendments and supplements thereto. Copies of the Alcoholic
Beverage Control Law of the state, being KRS Chapters 241 through 244 and the
regulations promulgated thereunder are hereby adopted by reference and made a
part hereof as though copied at length herein.
(Prior Code, § 63.006) (Ord. 2001-11, passed 10-15-2001)
§ 114.07 PERSONS WHO MAY NOT BE LICENSED.
   (A)   No license shall be granted under this chapter to any person not of
good moral character and a full citizen of the United States and of Kentucky;
nor shall any license be issued to any person who has habitually been a petty
law offender, or has been convicted of an offense against the laws of the state
punishable by imprisonment in the state prison, unless the person committed has
been duly pardoned. The provisions of this section shall not apply to a
corporation authorized to do business in the state, but such provisions except
the residence requirements shall apply to all officers and directors of any
corporation.
   (B)   No such license shall be granted to any person under 21 years of age.
   (C)   No such license shall be granted to any corporation when more than 50%
of the stock interest, legal or beneficial, is held by any person or person not
eligible for a license under this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 63.007) (Ord. 2001-11, passed 10-15-2001)
§ 114.08 PREMISES FOR WHICH LICENSES NOT TO BE ISSUED.
   (A)   No license shall be granted for any premises that is located within a
residential district except that a special private club license may be issued
and, if so, a malt beverage license may be issued to the same licensee holding
a special private club license for the same premises. Any premises shall be
deemed to be included within a residence district if two-thirds of the
buildings within a radius of 500 feet are used exclusively for residence
purposes or the uses incidental thereto, regardless of the zoning
classification of the property.
   (B)   No license shall be granted for operation on any premises upon which
taxes or assessments or other financial claims of the city are delinquent and
unpaid.
   (C)   No license shall be issued unless the premises to be licensed conform
to the sanitary, safety, and health requirements of the city and the rules and
regulations of the state board of health applicable to restaurants.
   (D)   No license shall be granted nor shall any application be accepted for
any premises unless there is an established business operating upon the
premises or the premises is at the time of the application ready to commence
business.
(Prior Code, § 63.008) (Ord. 2001-11, passed 10-15-2001)
§ 114.09 CONSPICUOUS POSTING REQUIRED.
   Every license and permit issued pursuant to this chapter shall be posted
while in force in a conspicuous place in the room or place where intoxicating
liquors are kept for sale.
(Prior Code, § 63.009)
§ 114.10 DUPLICATES.
   Whenever a license or permit shall be lost or destroyed without fault on the
part of the holder or his or her agent or employee, a duplicate in lieu thereof
under the original application shall be issued by the County Clerk on
satisfying himself or herself as to the facts, upon the payment of a renewal
fee of $10.
(Prior Code, § 63.010) (Ord. 2001-11, passed 10-15-2001)
§ 114.11 CONDITIONS TO WHICH LICENSE SUBJECT.
   All licenses granted hereunder shall be granted subject to the following
conditions as well as any other conditions of this chapter, and subject to all
other ordinances, statutes, or regulations of the county or state applicable
thereto.
   (A)   Every applicant procuring a license thereby consents to the entry of
the Sheriff or other duly authorized representatives of the county or state at
all reasonable hours for the purpose of inspection and search, and consents to
the removal from said premises of all things and ordinances there had in
violation of county ordinances or state laws, and consents to the introduction
of such things and ordinances in evidence in any prosecution that may be
brought for such offenses.
   (B)   No person, firm, or corporation holding a license under the provisions
of this chapter shall sell any intoxicating alcoholic liquor behind blinds or
screens, but such sales shall be conducted openly and without any attempt to
hide it or screen it from public view.
   (C)   Each licensed premises shall at all times be conducted in an orderly
manner, and no disorderly, riotous, or indecent conduct shall be allowed at any
time on any licensed premises.
   (D)   No gambling or game of chance of any sort shall be permitted in any
form upon the licensed premises. Dice, slot machines, or any device of chances
are prohibited and shall not be kept upon the premises.
(Prior Code, § 63.011) (Ord. 2001-11, passed 10-15-2001) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.12 TRANSFERABILITY.
   No license issued under provisions of this chapter shall be transferable
either as to license or location except as provided in this chapter or by state
law.
(Prior Code, § 63.012) (Ord. 2001-11, passed 10-15-2001)
§ 114.13 DISPOSITION OF TAXES AND FORFEITED BONDS.
   All money derived from the collection of license taxes herein provided for,
and all money derived from the forfeiture of bonds herein provided for, shall
be paid into and become a part of the General Fund of the county.
(Prior Code, § 63.013) (Ord. 2001-11, passed 10-15-2001)
§ 114.14 SUNDAY ALCOHOL SALES.
   (A)   The County Fiscal Court hereby adopts those sections of the Kentucky
Revised Statutes, KRS 244.290, relating to wine and distilled spirits, and KRS
244.480, relating to malt beverages, as it relates to the sale of alcoholic
beverages on Sunday to licensees who sell wine, distilled spirits, and malt
beverages by the drink.
   (B)   Those licensees authorized to offer wine, distilled spirits, and malt
beverages by the drink shall meet the requirements as set forth in KRS 244.290
(4) before same shall be authorized to offer Sunday sales of wine, distilled
spirits, and malt beverages.
   (C)   The hours of sale of wine, distilled spirits, and malt beverages for
such sales shall be between the hours of 10:00 a.m. and 10:00 p.m. on Sunday.
   (D)   (1)   Pursuant to KRS 244.290(4), KRS 244.290(5), and KRS 244.480, a
licensee for the retail sale of wine, distilled spirits, and/or malt beverages
by the drink shall be permitted to sell or dispense alcoholic beverages on
Sunday between the hours of 1:00 p.m. and 10:00 p.m. The retailer must meet the
requirements set forth in KRS 244.290 before being authorized to sell said
alcohol.
      (2)   Any licensed small farm winery that is permitted to sell alcoholic
beverages under KRS Chapter 242, shall be permitted to sell alcoholic beverages
in accordance with the sales permitted under KRS 243.155 on the licensed
premises of the small farm winery in accordance with the times set forth in
division (C) above.
(Ord. 2018-18, passed 9-12-2018; Ord. 2022-10, passed 9-22-2022)
§ 114.99 PENALTY.
   Any person commencing the operation of a business required to be licensed
under provisions of this chapter without first having acquired such license
shall, upon conviction, be assessed the penalties provided therefor by statute,
and, in all other cases, such person shall, upon conviction, be fined not less
than $10 nor more than $100, with each day of operation without a license to be
a separate offense. Violation of any other of the provisions of this chapter
shall, if a statutory offense, be assessed the penalty provided by statute,
and, in all other cases, violators shall be punished by a fine of not less than
$10 nor more than $100, and if the violation is a continuing violation each day
shall constitute a separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 63.999) (Ord. 2001-11, passed 10-15-2001)
CHAPTER 115: CABLE TELEVISION FRANCHISE
Section
   
115.01   Short title
   
115.02   Definitions
   
115.03   Description, term, and renewal of franchise
   
115.04   Design and service provisions
   
115.05   Construction provisions
   
115.06   Conditions of occupancy of public property
   
115.07   Operation and maintenance
   
115.08   Franchise fee
   
115.09   Indemnity and insurance
   
115.10   Revocation
   
115.11   Unauthorized operation and use
   
115.12   Conditions of access
   
115.13   Miscellaneous
 
   
115.99   Penalty
§ 115.01 SHORT TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the “County of Clark Cable
Television Franchise Ordinance”.
(Prior Code, § 64.001) (Ord. 89-15, passed 8-23-1989; Ord. 95-7, passed 4-19-
1995; Ord. 95-6, passed 5-10-1995; Ord. 95-20, passed 12-13-1995; Ord. 2002-13,
passed 6-12-2002)
§ 115.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CABLE ACT. The Cable Communications Policy Act of 1984, 47 U.S.C. §§ 521 et
seq., and such future enactments as may amend or supersede it.
   CATV SYSTEM. A facility, consisting of a set of closed transmission paths
and associated signal generation, reception, and control equipment that is
designed to provide cable service which includes video programming and which is
provided to multiple subscribers within the county. CATV SYSTEM does not
include:
      (1)   A facility that serves only to retransmit the television signals of
one or more television broadcast stations;
      (2)   A facility that serves only subscribers in one or more multiple
unit dwellings under common ownership, control, or management, unless such
facility uses a public right-of-way;
      (3)   A facility of a common carrier that is subject, in whole or in
part, to the provisions of the Common Carrier Title of the Communications Act
of 1934, 47 U.S.C. §§ 201 et seq., except that such facility will be considered
a CATV SYSTEM to the extent that it is used in the transmission of video
programming directly to subscribers; or
      (4)   Any facilities of any electric utility used solely for operating
its electric utility systems.
   CHANNEL. A frequency band which is capable of carrying either one video
signal or a number of audio, digital, or other non-video signals, or some
combination thereof.
   COUNTY. The County of Clark, Kentucky in its present form or in any form
which may subsequently be adopted.
   FCC. The Federal Communications Commission.
   FISCAL COURT. The Fiscal Court of the County of Clark or any future entity
constituting the legislative body of the County of Clark.
   FRANCHISE. All those rights and obligations created by this chapter and
granted by separate ordinance to a grantee.
   GRANTEE. A person granted a franchise right as created by this chapter, its
successors and assigns.
   GROSS REVENUES. All system revenues received for any fiscal year by grantee
from subscribers for recurring services, after deducting all taxes and other
assessments collected by grantee for governmental authorities, franchise fees,
bad debt expenses, installation and disconnect charges, and refundable
subscriber deposits.
   OWNER. A person with a legal or equitable interest in the ownership of real
property.
   PERSON. Any individual, corporation, partnership, association, joint
ventures, or organization of any kind and any lawful trustee, successor,
assign, transferee, or personal representative thereof.
   PUBLIC PROPERTY. 
      (1)   Any real property owned by the county;
      (2)   The surface of and the space above and below any public street,
road, freeway, lane, path, public way, alley, court, sidewalk boulevard,
parkway, or drive, insofar as any such surface and space is within the county;
and
      (3)   Any easement or right-of-way now or hereafter held by the county or
dedicated for use by the county or the general public.
   SUBSCRIBER. Any person subscribing to any service provided by grantee by
means of the system.
   SYSTEM. The CATV system owned, operated, and maintained by grantee in the
county pursuant to this franchise.
(Prior Code, § 64.002) (Ord. 89-15, passed 8-23-1989; Ord. 95-7, passed 4-19-
1995; Ord. 95-6, passed 5-10-1995; Ord. 95-20, passed 12-13-1995; Ord. 2002-13,
passed 6-12-2002)
§ 115.03 DESCRIPTION, TERM, AND RENEWAL OF FRANCHISE.
   (A)   Description of franchise. There are hereby created non-exclusive
franchises which shall include the right to establish, construct, erect,
operate, maintain, install, repair, replace, reconstruct, and retain in, on,
over, under, upon, across, and along any and all public property such lines,
cables, conductors, ducts, conduits, vaults, manholes, amplifiers, appliances,
pedestals, attachments, and other property and equipment as are necessary or
convenient to the operation of the system subject to the terms and conditions
set forth herein.
   (B)   Franchise term. The term of all franchises shall commence on the
effective date of the ordinance granting said franchise and shall expire 15
years after said date, unless this franchise shall be terminated or renewed as
herein provided.
   (C)   Award process. The county shall, by ordinance, grant one or more of
the franchises herein created to the highest and best bidders after advertising
the sale of the franchise by publication, pursuant to KRS Chapter 424, or other
applicable law or succeeding or amended law, and receiving bids publically. The
county shall have the right to reject any and all bids.
   (D)   Bid bonds. Every bidder who does not already own plant and equipment
in the county sufficient to render the service contemplated by this chapter
shall deposit with his or her bid cash or certified check in an amount equal to
5% of the fair estimated cost of the plant required to render this service, all
pursuant and subject to the terms of KRS 96.020 or other applicable law. The
said estimated cost shall be included in the advertisement for bids.
   (E)   Rights of reserve to the county. With respect to the franchises herein
created, the county reserves the right notwithstanding other language contained
herein, to regulate the poles, wires, or other apparatus and the public ways or
grounds upon which they are erected, constructed, or installed and the right to
require any franchisee to conform any changed grades or routes or such public
ways or grounds, and to further right to require the removal of such poles,
posts, wires, or other apparatus and to install its distribution facility and
equipment underground, insofar as possible.
   (F)   Renewal. 
      (1)   Upon the expiration of the term of any franchise, grantee may renew
said franchise if:
         (a)   The grantee has substantially complied with the material terms
of the franchise and with applicable law;
         (b)   The quality of the grantee’s service, including signal quality,
response to consumer complaints, and billing practices, (including the mix,
quality, or level or CATV system services or other services provided over the
system) has been reasonable in light of community needs;
         (c)   The grantee has the financial, legal, and technical ability to
provide the services, facilities, and equipment set forth in its renewal
proposal;
         (d)   The grantee’s renewal proposal is reasonable to meet the future
cable-related needs and interests of the county, taking into account the cost
of meeting such needs and interests; and
         (e)   In any formal renewal hearing, the procedures set forth in § 626
(a) to (g) of the Cable Act, being 47 U.S.C. § 626(a) to (g) shall apply.
      (2)   Notwithstanding the foregoing, the grantee may submit a proposal
for renewal of the franchise in accordance with § 626(h) of the Cable Act,
being 47 U.S.C. § 626(h).
(Prior Code, § 64.003) (Ord. 89-15, passed 8-23-1989; Ord. 95-7, passed 4-19-
1995; Ord. 95-6, passed 5-10-1995; Ord. 95-20, passed 12-13-1995; Ord. 2002-13,
passed 6-12-2002)
§ 115.04 DESIGN AND SERVICE PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Technical requirements. The grantee’s system shall comply with all
applicable FCC technical standards. Procedures for testing the technical
capacity of the system shall conform to the technical and testing standards
applied to cable television systems by the FCC. The results of any tests
required by the FCC shall be filed annually with the county upon the county’s
request.
   (B)   Level of services. As of the effective date of a franchise, the
grantee’s system shall have the technical capability to provide at least 34
channels. The grantee shall have the right to add, delete, replace, and/or
rearrange its programming services during the term of the franchise, provided
however, that at no time shall less than 30 channels of television service be
offered.
   (C)   Free service to schools. Upon written request by the county, the
grantee shall furnish a single connection to each public and parochial school
located in the county and provide the grantee’s basic cable television service
without cost to the county, provided that such school building is within 150
feet of a main or lateral cable, or within range of radio waves if radio waves
are utilized by the grantee for the transmission and distribution of its
signals. There shall be no restriction upon the county as to the number of
television receivers which the county may operate from such connection,
provided that the expense of installing and maintaining an internal
distribution system within any such school building shall be the responsibility
of the county or its school board. Any such internal distribution system
installed by a school must conform to all applicable federal, state, and county
rules, regulations, and ordinances and must be operated in such a manner as not
to interfere with the grantee’s system.
   (D)   Free service to county. Upon written request by the county, the
grantee shall provide its basic monthly service without charge, excluding
installation (such installation charges to consist only of time and material),
necessary equipment, and maintenance of said equipment, at up to three
locations in the county to be designated by the county. Installation and
service will be subject only to such location being within 150 feet of a main
or lateral cable, or within range of radio waves if radio waves are utilized by
the grantee for the transmission and distribution of signals. The grantee shall
relocate monitoring facilities at the county’s request for a charge not to
exceed the grantee’s costs for such relocation.
(Prior Code, § 64.004) (Ord. 89-15, passed 8-23-1989; Ord. 95-7, passed 4-19-
1995; Ord. 95-6, passed 5-10-1995; Ord. 95-20, passed 12-13-1995; Ord. 2002-13,
passed 6-12-2002)
§ 115.05 CONSTRUCTION PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Construction requirements.
      (1)   The grantee may make use of existing poles and other facilities
available subject to the grantee’s obtaining any necessary consents for such
use, and the grantee may also erect its own poles and install its own conduit,
with approval of the county, which approval shall not be unreasonably withheld.
      (2)   All poles and conduit installed within the county shall be made
available for attachment or use by the grantee, at just and reasonable rates
applied to public utilities under the formula established in the Pole
Attachment Act, 47 U.S.C. § 224 (which federal statute sets forth the formula
for calculating various pole attachment rates).
      (3)   In case of new construction or property development where utilities
are to be placed underground, the owner or developer shall give the grantee
reasonable notice of not less than 30 days prior to such construction or
development, and of the particular date on which open trenching will be
available for the grantee’s installation of conduit, pedestals, vaults, and/or
laterals, which facilities and equipment shall be provided at the grantee’s
expense. The grantee shall also provide specifications as needed for trenching.
The owner or developer shall not impose any charge or fee upon the grantee for
the grantee’s installation in or use of such trenching.
   (B)   Construction codes and permits. The grantee shall obtain any required
permits from the county before commencing construction involving the opening or
disturbance of any public property. The county shall cooperate with the grantee
and shall use its best efforts to issue promptly to the grantee such permits as
may be required.
(Prior Code, § 64.005) (Ord. 89-15, passed 8-23-1989; Ord. 95-7, passed 4-19-
1995; Ord. 95-6, passed 5-10-1995; Ord. 95-20, passed 12-13-1995; Ord. 2002-13,
passed 6-12-2002)
§ 115.06 CONDITIONS OF OCCUPANCY OF PUBLIC PROPERTY.
   (A)   Location of facilities. The grantee shall install its lines, poles,
equipment, and other facilities on any public property in such manner as to
avoid unreasonable interference with the usual and customary use of said public
property by any person.
   (B)   Repair of public property. Any and all public property which is
disturbed or damaged during the grantee’s construction, operation, or
maintenance of the system shall be promptly repaired by the grantee at its
expense and returned to a condition reasonably comparable to its condition
prior to the disturbance or damage.
   (C)   Trimming of trees. The grantee may cut or trim trees and vegetation in
accordance with the National Electrical Safety Code and any other applicable
clearance requirements.
   (D)   Temporary removal of facilities. In the event it is necessary to
temporarily move or remove any of the grantee’s lines, poles, equipment, or
other facilities in order lawfully to transport a large object, vehicle,
building, or other structure over any public property of the county, then upon
five business days prior notice from the county to the grantee, the grantee
shall temporarily move or remove such of its facilities as may be necessary to
accomplish such transport. The grantee shall be entitled to reimbursement for
the costs of such temporary removal from the person making such request, and
the grantee may require such reimbursement in advance.
   (E)   Relocation of facilities. If at any time during the period of any
franchise the county shall lawfully elect to alter or change the grade of any
public property, then upon reasonable notice by the county, the grantee shall
remove, relay, and relocate its lines, poles, equipment, and other facilities
at its own expense; provided, however, that where public funds or funds from
property owners are available for such relocation pursuant to law, the grantee
shall not be required to pay the cost.
   (F)   Placement of facilities underground. In all areas of the county where
the lines, wires, or other like facilities of public utilities are placed
underground, the grantee shall place its lines, wires, or other like facilities
underground to the maximum extent that existing technology reasonably permits
the grantee to do so.
(Prior Code, § 64.006) (Ord. 89-15, passed 8-23-1989; Ord. 95-7, passed 4-19-
1995; Ord. 95-6, passed 5-10-1995; Ord. 95-20, passed 12-13-1995; Ord. 2002-13,
passed 6-12-2002)
§ 115.07 OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE.
   (A)   Annual reports. Within 30 days after the end of each calender quarter,
the grantee shall file with the county a quarterly status report and financial
statement for such preceding quarter, prepared in accordance with generally
accepted accounting principles applied on a consistent basis, certified by an
officer of the grantee. The grantee’s quarterly franchise fee payment
referenced in §
115.08 shall accompany such filing.
   (B)   Inspection. Upon reasonable prior written notice and during ordinary
business hours, the county shall have the right to inspect the public records
of the grantee relating to the system.
   (C)   Service and maintenance. The grantee shall render efficient service,
make repairs promptly, and interrupt system service only for good cause.
   (D)   Franchise subject to others laws, police power. The grantee shall be
subject to and shall comply with all applicable laws, ordinances, codes, rules,
regulations, and orders of the United States of America, the state, and the
county, respectively. The grantee shall also be subject to the county’s police
power in accordance with applicable law.
   (E)   Safety.
      (1)   The grantee shall at all times exercise reasonable care not to
cause damage or injury to any person or to any public or private property.
      (2)   All system lines, poles, equipment, and other facilities within the
county shall at all times be kept and maintained by the grantee in a safe and
suitable condition and in good order and repair.
   (F)   Subscriber practices.
      (1)   The grantee shall not deny service, deny access, or otherwise
discriminate against any subscriber on the basis of race, color, religion,
national origin, sex, or age. The grantee shall adhere to the equal employment
opportunity requirements of the FCC.
      (2)   The grantee may conduct promotional campaigns in which rates are
discounted or waived.
      (3)   The grantee may make special contracts for non-profit charitable,
educational, governmental, and religious organizations.
      (4)   The grantee may offer bulk rate discounts for multiple-unit
dwellings, hotels, motels, and other similar institutions.
      (5)   The grantee shall comply with applicable federal law regarding the
protection of the privacy of subscribers and system data relating to
subscribers.
      (6)   The grantee shall have full authority to promulgate such rules,
regulations, terms, and conditions governing the conduct of its business as
shall be necessary or appropriate to enable the grantee to operate under a
franchise granted pursuant to this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 64.007) (Ord. 89-15, passed 8-23-1989; Ord. 95-7, passed 4-19-
1995; Ord. 95-6, passed 5-10-1995; Ord. 95-20, passed 12-13-1995; Ord. 2002-13,
passed 6-12-2002)
§ 115.08 FRANCHISE FEE.
   Within 30 days after the end of each calendar quarter, the grantee shall pay
to the county a franchise fee in an amount equal to 3% of the grantee’s gross
revenues for the preceding quarter. All payments due the county under this
section shall be submitted to the county accompanied by the grantee’s quarterly
report referenced in §
115.07(A) above.
(Prior Code, § 64.008) (Ord. 89-15, passed 8-23-1989; Ord. 95-7, passed 4-19-
1995; Ord. 95-6, passed 5-10-1995; Ord. 95-20, passed 12-13-1995; Ord. 2002-13,
passed 6-12-2002)
§ 115.09 INDEMNITY AND INSURANCE.
   (A)   Indemnity. The grantee shall indemnify and hold harmless the county at
all times during the term of a franchise from and against any and all claims
for injury of damage to persons or property, both real and personal, caused by
the grantee’s construction, erection, operation, or maintenance of the system.
No claim for indemnification shall be valid unless the grantee is provided with
notice of the respective injury, loss, or claim promptly after the occurrence
thereof, and it provided with full and timely opportunity to defend.
   (B)   Insurance. 
      (1)   Throughout the term of a franchise, the grantee shall maintain
worker’s compensation insurance sufficient to comply with all state
requirements, and general comprehensive liability insurance with respect to the
construction, operation, and maintenance of the system which insurance shall
name the county as an additional insured, in amounts not less than the
following:
         (a)   For bodily injury, including death, $500,000 for any one
individual, and $1,000,000 for any one accident; and
         (b)   For property damage, $500,000.
      (2)   Upon request by the county, the grantee shall provide the county
with satisfactory written evidence of such insurance.
(Prior Code, § 64.009) (Ord. 89-15, passed 8-23-1989; Ord. 95-7, passed 4-19-
1995; Ord. 95-6, passed 5-10-1995; Ord. 95-20, passed 12-13-1995; Ord. 2002-13,
passed 6-12-2002)
§ 115.10 REVOCATION.
   (A)   Any franchise granted by authority of this chapter may be revoked by
the county on account of the grantee’s material breach of said franchise, as
herein after provided. The county shall give written notice to the grantee that
the grantee is in material breach, which notice shall specify the basis
therefor. If within 90 days of the grantee’s receipt of such notice, such
breach has not been corrected and the grantee is not actively pursuing the
correction thereof, then the Fiscal Court may give written notice to the
grantee of the county’s intent to consider revocation of the grantee’s
franchise, stating the county’s reasons therefor.
   (B)   Before final action shall be taken, the Fiscal Court shall hold a
hearing at which time the grantee shall be given an opportunity to present
evidence and make argument. Following the hearing, the Fiscal Court shall
determine whether or not to revoke said franchise based upon the evidence and
arguments presented at the hearing. The Fiscal Court’s determination shall be
reflected in a written opinion setting forth in detail the reasons for its
decision.
   (C)   Any franchise may, at the option of the county, be revoked 120
calendar days after an assignment for the benefit of creditors or the
appointment of a receiver or trustee to take over the business of the grantee,
whether in a receivership, reorganization, bankruptcy assignment for the
benefit of creditors, or other action or proceeding, unless within that 120-day
period:
      (1)   Such assignment, receivership, or trusteeship has been vacated; or
      (2)   Such assignee, receiver, or trustee has fully complied with the
terms and conditions of this franchise and has executed an agreement, approved
by the court having jurisdiction, assuming and agreeing to be bound by the
terms and conditions of this franchise.
   (D)   In the event of foreclosure or other judicial sale of the facilities,
equipment, and property of the grantee, the county may revoke a franchise by
serving notice upon the grantee and the successful bidder at the sale, in which
event this franchise shall be revoked 30 calendar days after service of such
notice, unless:
      (1)   The county has approved the transfer of this franchise to the
successful bidder; and
      (2)   The successful bidder has covenanted and agreed with the county to
assume and be bound by the terms and conditions of this franchise.
   (E)   The Fiscal Court may, at its sole discretion, take any other lawful
action which it deems appropriate to enforce the county’s rights under this
chapter in lieu of revocation of a franchise.
   (F)   The grantee shall be entitled to the continuance of all of its rights
under any franchise at all times during the pendency of any revocation
proceeding or appeal thereof.
(Prior Code, § 64.010) (Ord. 89-15, passed 8-23-1989; Ord. 95-7, passed 4-19-
1995; Ord. 95-6, passed 5-10-1995; Ord. 95-20, passed 12-13-1995; Ord. 2002-13,
passed 6-12-2002)
§ 115.11 UNAUTHORIZED OPERATION AND USE.
   (A)   Unauthorized operations. It shall be unlawful for any person to
establish, operate, or carry on the business of distributing to any person in
the county any television signals or radio signals by means of any CATV system
unless a franchise therefor has first been obtained from the county and is in
full force and effect.
   (B)   Unauthorized use.
      (1)   No person shall intercept, descramble, decode, or receive or assist
in intercepting, descrambling, decoding, or receiving any signals from a
grantee’s system unless specifically authorized to do so by the grantee. ASSIST
IN INTERCEPTING, DESCRAMBLING, DECODING, OR RECEIVING shall include the
manufacture or distribution of equipment intended by the manufacturer or
distributor for unauthorized reception of signals over a CATV system.
      (2)   No person shall tamper with, remove, or injure any lines, poles,
equipment, or other facilities used with a system unless specifically
authorized to do so by the grantee.
      (3)   No person shall intentionally deprive a grantee of a lawful charge
for cable service.
      (4)   If an unauthorized device or connection designed to intercept,
descramble, or decode a cable television signal is present on the premises or
property occupied or used by a person, it shall be presumed that such person
knowingly used such device or connection to intercept, descramble, or decode
cable television signals. If equipment of the grantee which has been tampered
with, changed or modified is present on the premises or property occupied or
used by a person, it shall be presumed that such person knowingly used such
equipment to intercept, descramble, or decode cable television signals.
      (5)   Nothing herein shall be deemed to limit any of a grantee’s
applicable rights and remedies available in law or in equity, all of which are
expressly reserved to the grantee.
(Prior Code, § 64.011) (Ord. 89-15, passed 8-23-1989; Ord. 95-7, passed 4-19-
1995; Ord. 95-6, passed 5-10-1995; Ord. 95-20, passed 12-13-1995; Ord. 2002-13,
passed 6-12-2002) Penalty, see §
115.99
§ 115.12 CONDITIONS OF ACCESS.
   (A)   A grantee hereunder shall have the right to require any subscriber to
agree that the grantee and the grantee’s representatives may enter and have
access to the property and premises of such subscriber for purposes of
recovering and removing the grantee’s property and equipment when and if such
subscriber’s service is terminated.
   (B)   No person who owns or controls a residential multiple-unit dwelling,
trailer park, condominium, apartment complex, subdivision, or other property
shall interfere with the right of any tenant, resident, or lawful occupant
thereof to receive cable installation, service, or maintenance from the
grantee.
   (C)   Upon request by the grantee, the county shall promptly exercise any
rights it may have to obtain or utilize easements with respect to any
residential multiple-unit dwelling, trailer park, condominium, apartment
complex, subdivision, or other property as required to facilitate the grantee’s
use thereof for purposes of providing system service to the tenants, residents,
or lawful occupants thereof. In any such proceeding, the restitution to the
owner for the amount of space utilized by the system, considering the enhanced
value to the premises resulting from the installation of cable television
facilities, shall be a one-time charge of $1 per dwelling unit.
(Prior Code, § 64.012) (Ord. 89-15, passed 8-23-1989; Ord. 95-7, passed 4-19-
1995; Ord. 95-6, passed 5-10-1995; Ord. 95-20, passed 12-13-1995; Ord. 2002-13,
passed 6-12-2002)
§ 115.13 MISCELLANEOUS.
   (A)   Notices. All notices, requests, demands, and other communications
required or permitted hereunder shall be in writing and shall be deemed to have
been duly given if delivered by hand, or mailed by certified or registered mail
properly addressed with postage prepaid:
      (1)   If to the county, to: Office of the Clark County Judge/Executive,
Clark County Courthouse, 34 South Main Street, Winchester, KY 40391, or to such
other person or address as the county shall furnish to the grantee in writing
in accordance herewith; and
      (2)   If to the grantee, to that address for the grantee contained in the
ordinance granting said franchise, or to such other person or address as the
grantee shall furnish to the county in writing in accordance herewith.
   (B)   Severability. If any law, ordinance, regulation, or court decision
shall render any provision of this franchise invalid, the remaining provisions
of this franchise shall remain in full force and effect.
   (C)   Force majeure. Any failure or delay by the grantee in its performance
of any provision of this franchise shall not be deemed non-compliance with or a
violation of this franchise if such failure or delay is attributable to any Act
of God or is due to any other circumstances beyond the control of the grantee.
   (D)   Non-exclusivity. The right to own, operate, and maintain a CATV system
in the county shall be non-exclusive; however, should the county desire to
grant multiple CATV system franchises, the county shall not authorize or permit
any such CATV system to operate within the county on terms or conditions more
favorable or less burdensome to such operator than those applied to the grantee
pursuant to this chapter. Should the county authorize or permit multiple CATV
systems to operate within the county, the county shall do so on the condition
that such additional grantees indemnify and hold harmless existing grantees
from and against any and all costs and expenses incurred by existing grantee in
strengthening poles, replacing poles, rearranging attachments, placing
underground facilities, and all other costs, including those of the grantee,
the county, and utilities, incident to inspections, make-ready, and
construction of any additional CATV system in the franchise area; and provided
further that the grantee shall be designated a third party beneficiary of such
conditions as are incorporated into any authorization(s) granted to any other
CATV system.
   (E)   Assignment and change of control. The grantee may assign any franchise
granted, provided that the assignee shall give prompt written notice thereof to
the county and shall, in such notice, covenant and agree to be bound by all of
the terms and conditions of said franchise.
   (F)   Governing law. This franchise shall be governed by and construed in
accordance with the laws of the state and applicable federal law.
(Prior Code, § 64.013) (Ord. 89-15, passed 8-23-1989; Ord. 95-7, passed 4-19-
1995; Ord. 95-6, passed 5-10-1995; Ord. 95-20, passed 12-13-1995; Ord. 2002-13,
passed 6-12-2002)
§ 115.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who fails to comply with any provision of this chapter shall be
in violation of this chapter and, upon being found guilty of such violation,
shall be fined not less than $100 nor more than $500 and be in prison for not
more than 30 days. Each and every day of violation of this provision shall
constitute a separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 64.999) (Ord. 89-15, passed 8-23-1989; Ord. 95-7, passed 4-19-
1995; Ord. 95-6, passed 5-10-1995; Ord. 95-20, passed 12-13-1995; Ord. 2002-13,
passed 6-12-2002)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   GENERAL OFFENSES
CHAPTER 130: GENERAL OFFENSES
Section
Miscellaneous Regulations
   
130.01   Wearing hoods or masks
   
130.02   Carrying concealed deadly weapons
Social Gatherings
   
130.15   Definitions
   
130.16   Prohibited conduct
   
130.17   Protected activities
   
130.18   Exculpation
   
130.19   Conflict of law
 
   
130.99   Penalty
MISCELLANEOUS REGULATIONS
§ 130.01 WEARING HOODS OR MASKS.
   (A)   Definition. For the purpose of this section, the following definition
shall apply unless the context indicates or clearly requires a different
meaning.
      PUBLIC PLACE. All public ways, all publicly-owned property, and all
privately-owned property open to the public.
   (B)   Wearing hoods or masks prohibited in public places. No person shall
enter, be, or appear in any public place within the county while wearing any
hood, mask, or other device whereby a substantial portion of the face is hidden
or covered so that the identity of the wearer is concealed.
   (C)   Wearing hoods or masks prohibited on property of another. No person
shall demand entrance or admission or enter or go upon or be upon the premises
or property of another in the county while wearing a hood, mask, or other
device whereby a substantial portion of the face is hidden or covered so that
the identity of the wearer is concealed, unless he or she shall have first
obtained the written permission of the owner and the occupant of the property.
   (D)   Exceptions. The following are excepted from the prohibitions contained
in divisions (B) and (C) above:
      (1)   Any person under 16 years of age;
      (2)   Any person wearing traditional holiday costumes in season;
      (3)   Any person using masks in theatrical productions, including use in
mardi gras celebrations and masquerade balls;
      (4)   Any person lawfully engaged in trades, professions, or employment
or in a sporting activity where a mask or facial covering is worn for the
purpose of ensuring the physical safety of the wearer, or because of the nature
of the occupation, trade, or profession or sporting activity;
      (5)   Any person wearing a gas mask in drills, exercise, or emergencies;
or
      (6)   Any person wearing a ski mask, muffler, or other device for the
protection of the face of the wearer from the cold.
(Ord. 81-8, passed 5-27-1981) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.02 CARRYING CONCEALED DEADLY WEAPONS.
   The provisions of this section, as enacted under KRS Chapter 237, shall not
be deemed to be a violation of KRS 65.870.
   (A)   All buildings or portions of buildings where the carrying of concealed
deadly weapons is prohibited shall be clearly identified by signs posted at the
entrance to the restricted area. Such signs shall be a minimum of 18 inches
square and shall read as follows: “The Possession of Concealed Deadly Weapons,
Concealed Even with Proper Permit, are Hereby Prohibited on this Property”.
   (B)   Any person or persons violating this section may be denied entrance to
the building or ordered to leave the building.
   (C)   Any employee of the county, excluding elected officials and peace
officers, who violate this section shall be subject to employee disciplinary
measures.
   (D)   The provisions of this section shall not apply to property owned by a
unit of county government but used as public housing by private persons.
   (E)   The adoption of this section shall be deemed to serve as public notice
that the carrying of concealed deadly weapons shall be prohibited on all
property which shall be posted accordingly.
(Ord. 99-6, passed 6-23-1999) Penalty, see §
130.99
SOCIAL GATHERINGS
§ 130.15 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALCOHOL. Ethyl alcohol, hydrated oxide of ethyl, or spirits of wine, from
whatever source or by whatever process produced.
   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE. Alcohol, spirits, liquor, wine, beer, and every liquid
or solid containing alcohol, spirits, wine, or beer, and which contains 0.5% or
more of alcohol by volume and which is fit for beverage purposes, either alone
or when diluted, mixed, or combined with other substances.
   GUARDIAN. Includes a person who, under court order, is the guardian of the
person of a minor, or a public agency with whom a minor has been placed by the
court.
   HOST. Someone who receives and entertains guests.
   KNOWINGLY. When, with respect to conduct or to a circumstance described by
this subchapter, a person is aware that his or her conduct is of that nature or
that the circumstance exists.
   LAW ENFORCEMENT SERVICES. Includes the salaries and benefits of police
officers, sheriffs, or code enforcement personnel for the amount of time
actually spent in responding to or remaining at the party, gathering, or event
and the administrative costs attributable to the incident; the actual cost of
any medical treatment to injured police officers, sheriffs, or code enforcement
personnel; the cost of repairing any damaged equipment or property owned or
operated by the responding agency or government entity; and the cost arising
from the use of any equipment in responding to or remaining at the party,
gathering, or event.
   MINOR. Any person under 21 years of age.
   PARENT. A person is a natural parent, adoptive parent, legal custodian, or
step-parent of another person.
   PARTY, GATHERING, OR EVENT. Includes a group of persons who have assembled
or are assembling for a social occasion or social activity.
(Ord. 2010-7, passed 4-14-2010)
§ 130.16 PROHIBITED CONDUCT.
   Except as permitted by the free exercise and enjoyment of religion, it is
unlawful for any person to knowingly permit, allow, or host a party, gathering,
or event at his or her place of residence or other private property, place of
premises under his or her control where a minor or minors are present and
alcoholic beverages are being consumed by any minor.
(Ord. 2010-7, passed 4-14-2010) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.17 PROTECTED ACTIVITIES.
   This subchapter shall not apply to conduct involving the use of alcoholic
beverages, which occurs exclusively between a minor child and his or her parent
or legal guardian.
(Ord. 2010-7, passed 4-14-2010)
§ 130.18 EXCULPATION.
   The defendant can prove as an exculpation or as a defense, that the
consumption of alcohol was induced by the use of false, fraudulent, or altered
identification papers or other documents, and that the appearance and character
of the minor was such that his or her age could not have been ascertained, and
indicated strongly that he or she was of legal age to consume alcoholic
beverages and, if so proved, shall not be liable under this subchapter.
(Ord. 2010-7, passed 4-14-2010)
§ 130.19 CONFLICT OF LAW.
   To the extent any resolution, ordinance, or parts thereof is in conflict,
the provisions of this subchapter will prevail and be given effect.
(Ord. 2010-7, passed 4-14-2010)
§ 130.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person who violates the provisions of §
130.16 shall, upon conviction, be fined no more than $100 and/or imprisoned for
no longer than 50 days.
   (C)   (1)   The penalties for violation of this section shall be as follows:
         (a)   First conviction: violation as that term is defined in KRS
532.020(4); and
         (b)   Second conviction: Class B misdemeanor constituting a fine not
to exceed $250 and/or up to 90 days in jail.
      (2)   For any conviction, in addition to any other costs or fees imposed
by law, the person convicted of an offense under §§
130.15 to
130.19 shall pay the costs of law enforcement services as defined herein.
(Ord. 81-8, passed 5-27-1981; Ord. 2010-7, passed 4-14-2010; Ord. 2011-2,
passed 2-15-2011)
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   BUILDING REGULATIONS
      
151.   FIRE PREVENTION AND PROTECTION
      
152.   FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
      
153.   DEVELOPMENT AND SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS
      
154.   COUNTY DEVELOPMENT
      
155.   ZONING CODE
      
156.   UTILITY-SCALE SOLAR FACILITIES
CHAPTER 150: BUILDING REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
150.01   Kentucky Building Code adopted by reference
   
150.02   Building permits
   
150.03   Permit fees
Electrical Code
   
150.15   National Electric Code adopted
   
150.16   Standards for wiring and materials; jurisdiction
   
150.17   Violations declared a nuisance
   
150.18   Electrical inspector; office created; appointment; duties
   
150.19   Qualifications of electrical inspector
   
150.20   Inspections required
   
150.21   Application for inspection; payment of fees
   
150.22   Concealed wiring
   
150.23   Inspector to detail violations
   
150.24   Duplicate inspection reports to be supplied to building inspection
office
   
150.25   Power not to be supplied without certificate of approval
   
150.26   Fees
   
150.27   Hazardous conditions; discovery and report by inspector; corrective
action
   
150.28   Liability for damages
 
   
150.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 150.01 KENTUCKY BUILDING CODE ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The latest addition of the One- and Two-Family Code for the state is hereby
adopted by the County Fiscal Court to apply to all areas of the county outside
of the corporate limits of the City of Winchester, and the contents of the code
are incorporated herein by reference the same as if set forth in full herein.
(Prior Code, § 70.001) (Ord. 85-2, passed 1-23-1985)
§ 150.02 BUILDING PERMITS.
   (A)   Adoption. No person, firm, or corporation shall commence the
construction, remodeling, or major repair of any structure except as exempt as
hereinafter set forth in this order within the unincorporated areas of the
county, without first securing from the Building Inspector’s office, a permit
for the construction, remodeling or major repair of any structure. The Building
Inspector’s office shall prepare, at the county’s expense, such forms as it may
deem necessary to ascertain the location of the structure which is to be
constructed, remodeled, or repaired and shall ascertain from the applicant for
said permit the costs of said construction, remodeling, or repair. No permit
shall be issued for the construction, remodeling, or repair of any structure
which may lie within the floodplain as designated by the County Fiscal Court in
previous orders of the court, unless the structure meets all of the
requirements as set forth by any governmental agency, whether, local, state, or
federal.
   (B)   Agricultural land use exceptions. Notwithstanding any other provision
of this order, meeting the State Building Code definition of “agricultural
property” shall quality for the State Building Code exemption as outlined in
the State Building Code, unless the property lies within the floodplain as
designated on the maps heretofore adopted by the Federal Emergency Management
Agency (FEMA) and the County Fiscal Court, in which event no permit shall be
issued unless the construction, remodeling, or repair meets all requirements
which may be imposed by any governmental agency, whether local, state, or
federal. A residence constructed, remodeled, or repaired upon agricultural land
shall not be deemed an agricultural building and a permit must be secured for
any such work.
(Prior Code, § 70.002) (Ord. 76-22, passed 4-7-1976) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.03 PERMIT FEES.
   (A)   Permit fees.
      (1)   The following fee schedule shall apply for all permits issued for
construction, remodeling, or repairing.
 
Total Valuation                                             Fee
Less than $1,000                                            None
Each additional $1,000 or fraction thereof through $25,000  $3 per thousand
Each additional $1,000 or fraction thereof through $50,000  $2.50 per thousand
Each additional $1,000 or fraction thereof through $100,000 $1.50 per thousand
Each additional $1,000 or fraction thereof through $100,000 $1 per thousand
 
      (2)   Notwithstanding the fees provided for in this section, no fee shall
be required for any agricultural building for which a permit must be obtained
because the building lies within the floodplain.
   (B)   Fees deposited to General Fund. All fees received for permits under
this section shall be deposited to the General Fund of the county to be used
for purposes provided for by orders of the County Fiscal Court.
(Prior Code, § 70.003) (Ord. 76-22, passed 4-7-1976)
ELECTRICAL CODE
§ 150.15 NATIONAL ELECTRIC CODE ADOPTED.
   There is hereby adopted for the purpose of establishing rules and
regulations for the installation, maintenance, and repair of electrical wiring,
apparatus, or equipment of light, heat, or power inside of or attached to
buildings, except farm buildings, within the county, or attached to the service
companies’ lines, a certain code known as the National Electrical Code, latest
edition, sponsored by the National Fire Protection Association, of which three
copies shall be on file in the office of the County Clerk. FARM BUILDINGS are
defined as all buildings erected or agriculturally zoned land which are not
intended or used for human housing.
(Prior Code, § 70.100) (Ord. 78-6, passed 10-3-1978)
§ 150.16 STANDARDS FOR WIRING AND MATERIALS; JURISDICTION.
   All electric wiring and appliances installed or attached to any building or
structure, except farm buildings, or added to any existing electrical wiring,
within the county, shall be sufficiently insulated, supported, protected, free
from hazards to life or property caused by overloading or short-circuiting, and
installed in accordance with the rules, regulations, and requirements of the
National Electrical Code and the standards of safety promulgated by the State
Commissioner of Public Safety and adopted by §
150.15. All materials, flexible cords, fittings, or devices shall be of an
approved type, and all electric wiring shall be maintained in accordance with
the codes and standards.
(Prior Code, § 70.101) (Ord. 78-6, passed 10-3-1978)
§ 150.17 VIOLATIONS DECLARED A NUISANCE.
   Any installation or revision of electrical wiring and services violating any
of the provisions of this subchapter within the county is hereby declared to
constitute a public nuisance and a fire hazard, and the electrical inspector
shall have authority to enforce this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 70.102) (Ord. 78-6, passed 10-3-1978)
§ 150.18 ELECTRICAL INSPECTOR; OFFICE CREATED; APPOINTMENT; DUTIES.
   (A)   There is hereby created the office of electrical inspector, who shall
be appointed by the County Judge/Executive upon recommendation of the Fire
Chief and subject to the approval of the Fiscal Court.
   (B)   It shall be the duty of the electrical inspector to inspect all
electrical wires, conduits, subways, and apparatus, to see to the enforcement
of all provisions of this subchapter and all laws, rules, and regulations
relating to the installation of electrical wires and apparatus in public and
private buildings in the county not herein exempted, and to issue certificates
of approval for all such installations found to be in compliance with the codes
and standards.
(Prior Code, § 70.103) (Ord. 78-6, passed 10-3-1978)
§ 150.19 QUALIFICATIONS OF ELECTRICAL INSPECTOR.
   The electrical inspector shall meet all of the qualifications established by
the state for electrical inspectors.
(Prior Code, § 70.104) (Ord. 78-6, passed 10-3-1978)
§ 150.20 INSPECTIONS REQUIRED.
   Every installation required by this subchapter to be inspected shall be
inspected at least twice with the two required inspections being the “rough”
inspection to be made when the basic wiring has been installed and before the
fixtures have been connected, and the final inspection to be made when the
installation is ready to be connected to the power supply.
(Prior Code, § 70.105) (Ord. 78-6, passed 10-3-1978)
§ 150.21 APPLICATION FOR INSPECTION; PAYMENT OF FEES.
   It shall be the duty of any person installing work under this subchapter to
file with the electrical inspector an application for inspection when the work
is ready for inspection and to pay the fees prescribed in §
150.26 prior to the inspection.
(Prior Code, § 70.106) (Ord. 78-6, passed 10-3-1978)
§ 150.22 CONCEALED WIRING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to conceal electrical wiring until after
the wiring shall have been inspected and a certificate of approval issued, and
no work so concealed shall be accepted, except no inspection or approval shall
be necessary where another governmental agency approved by the state has
approved the wiring of any mobile home, modular home, or other type residence
constructed off the premises and so constructed so as to conceal certain
wiring.
(Prior Code, § 70.107) (Ord. 78-6, passed 10-3-1978) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.23 INSPECTOR TO DETAIL VIOLATIONS.
   Upon the inspection, if the electrical inspector shall find any work that is
not in compliance with the standards prescribed, he or she shall issue to the
party being inspected a detailed list of the violations required to be
corrected.
(Prior Code, § 70.108) (Ord. 78-6, passed 10-3-1978)
§ 150.24 DUPLICATE INSPECTION REPORTS TO BE SUPPLIED TO BUILDING INSPECTION
OFFICE.
   The electrical inspector shall, at least once each month, turn over to the
building official a duplicate of each electrical inspection report, including
re-inspections for that month.
(Prior Code, § 70.109) (Ord. 78-6, passed 10-3-1978)
§ 150.25 POWER NOT TO BE SUPPLIED WITHOUT CERTIFICATE OF APPROVAL.
   It shall be unlawful for any electric light or power company to connect with
or furnish current to any electric installation coming within the ambit of this
subchapter until after the electric installation shall have been subjected to a
final inspection and a certificate of approval issued.
(Prior Code, § 70.110) (Ord. 78-6, passed 10-3-1978) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.26 FEES.
   (A)   Fees for electrical inspections for all electrical work with a cost of
less than $50,000 per unit shall be as follows.
Type of Inspection Fee
Type of          Fee
Inspection
Construction     $30
service
Final            $30 (For the first unit plus $1 per circuit exceeding 20
                 circuits and $10 for each additional attached unit)
Mobile home      $30
Reinspection
(due to
turndown,
concealment of   One reinspection fee allowed – all additional re-inspections
work, unapproved $30
materials, or
for any other
reason)
Rough in         $30 (For the first unit and $10 for each additional attached
                 unit)
Service change   $30
only
Temporary on
permanent (turn  $30
on water)
All other        $30
inspections
 
   (B)   Fees for electrical inspections for all electrical work with a cost of
greater than $50,000 per unit shall be as follows.
Cost of Work Percent
Cost of Work          Percent
$50,000 – $100,000  1.00
$101,000 – $200,000 0.95
$201,000 – $300,000 0.90
$301,000 – $400,000 0.80
$401,000 – $500,000 0.70
$501,000 – $1,000,000.60
Over $1,000,000       0.50
 
   (C)   Inspection fees for pre-constructed or pre-fabricated structures which
are not affixed with a state electrical inspection certificate shall be the
amount of $100.
   (D)   In addition to the fees hereinabove provided, there shall be a fee of
$20 for every re-inspection made necessary by concealment of work, unapproved
materials, or for any other reason.
(Prior Code, § 70.111) (Ord. 78-6, passed 10-3-1978; Res. passed 1-22-1997)
§ 150.27 HAZARDOUS CONDITIONS; DISCOVERY AND REPORT BY INSPECTOR; CORRECTIVE
ACTION.
   (A)   Should the electrical inspector, at any time, discover an electrical
condition constituting an immediate threat to the life of or of injury to any
person, the inspector shall notify the owner or custodian of the premises
involved who shall proceed immediately with corrective action.
   (B)   Should the owner or other person responsible for correcting such
conditions refuse to take immediate corrective action, or if the identity of
such person is not immediately ascertainable, or if the hazardous condition
cannot be corrected immediately, the electrical inspector shall notify the Fire
Chief, in writing, of the condition, the hazard created thereby, and that the
condition constitutes an immediate danger. Upon receipt of such notice, the
Fire Chief may, in his or her discretion, issue a written order to the supplier
of electrical power to the premises involved to disconnect all electric power
from the premises until the hazardous condition is corrected.
(Prior Code, § 70.112) (Ord. 78-6, passed 10-3-1978)
§ 150.28 LIABILITY FOR DAMAGES.
   This subchapter shall not be construed to relieve from or lessen the
responsibility or liability of any person owning, operating, controlling, or
installing any electric wiring, electric devices, or electric material or
furnishing electric current, for damages to person or property caused by any
defect therein by reason of the inspection authorized herein, or certificate of
inspection issued as herein provided.
(Prior Code, § 70.113) (Ord. 78-6, passed 10-3-1978)
§ 150.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any property owner or other person subject to the provisions of §
150.27 who refuses or negligently fails to take the corrective action required
by that section within ten days after receipt of notice shall, upon conviction,
be fined not less than $100 nor more than $500 or jailed for not less than one
month nor more than six months, or both.
   (B)   Any person who violates any other provision of §§
150.15 to
150.28 shall, upon conviction, be fined not less than $10 nor more than $100
for each offense.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to violate
the terms and provisions of this chapter and it shall be deemed a violation of
this order for any person, firm, or corporation to commence construction,
alteration, or repair of any building not exempted herein without first
obtaining a permit providing for such work, and any person, firm, or
corporation convicted of violating any provision of this order shall be fined
not less than $10 nor more than $100 and each day that any such violation
occurs or is continued shall constitute a separate offense
(Prior Code, § 70.999) (Ord. 76-22, passed 4-7-1976; Ord. 78-6, passed 10-3-
1978)
CHAPTER 151: FIRE PREVENTION AND PROTECTION
Section
General Provisions
   
151.01   Standards of Safety adopted by reference; enforcement
   
151.02   Open burning
   
151.03   Sprinkler systems
   
151.04   Key lock box
Hazardous Substances
   
151.15   Definitions
   
151.16   Fire Chief responsibility
   
151.17   DES Director responsibility
   
151.18   Preplanning required
   
151.19   Handler or user responsibility
   
151.20   Response
   
151.21   Cost recovery
   
151.22   Enforcement
 
   
151.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 151.01 STANDARDS OF SAFETY ADOPTED BY REFERENCE; ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   The state’s Fire Prevention Code (Standards of Safety) as promulgated
in 815 KAR 10:060 by the Commissioner of the Department of Housing, Buildings,
and Construction, on the advice and recommendation of the State Fire Marshal,
is hereby adopted in full, by reference, and made a part of this code of
ordinances. Copies of the Standards of Safety are available through the
Department of Housing, Buildings, and Construction, 1047 U.S. South 127 South,
Frankfort, Kentucky 40601.
   (B)   The County Fire Marshal shall be designated as the local enforcement
agent/agency for the Standards of Safety as appointed by the Fiscal Court.
      (1)   Subject to the limitations and conditions stated in 815 KAR 10:060,
it shall be the duty of the Fire Marshal to inspect or to cause to be inspected
as often as he or she may deem necessary or appropriate all buildings,
structures, and premises within his or her jurisdiction for the purposes of
ascertaining and causing to be corrected any condition which may cause fire or
explosion or endanger life from fire or explosion or any violations of the
provisions of this subchapter.
      (2)   The Fire Marshal or his or her appointee may, without delay or
advance notice and at all reasonable hours of the day or night, enter in or
upon any property to make an inspection or investigation for the purpose of
preventing fire loss.
      (3)   Upon attempting to inspect a structure three times and being denied
entry, the Fire Marshal may order the structure closed to the public, or
vacated until such time as the structure can be inspected.
      (4)   The Fire Marshal shall have the discretion to determine the time
frame to bring deficiencies into compliance. Reasonable time shall be granted
not to exceed 30 days.
   (C)   The requirements for permits and required fees shall be as provided by
the Fiscal Court.
   (D)   All final decisions of the fire code official of the county shall be
appealable to a local appeals board pursuant to the procedures adopted by the
County Fiscal Court.
(Prior Code, § 72.001) (Ord. 96-21, passed 12-17-1996; Ord. 2016-6, passed 5-
11-2016)
§ 151.02 OPEN BURNING.
   (A)   Whenever the state’s Division of Forestry notifies the county that an
extraordinary fire hazard exists in the county as determined by the National
Fire Danger Rating System and Fire Occurrence, the County Judge/Executive, in
his or her discretion, may proclaim an executive order that such a condition
exists in the county.
    (B)   No person shall, when a proclamation as provided for in division (A)
above has been issued, light or maintain an open fire at any location in the
county, while such proclamation is in effect. Any person violating this section
shall be subject to the fines and penalties provided in §
151.99.
   (C)   Notice of the proclamation provided for in division (A) above shall be
published in the Winchester Sun.
   (D)   Guidelines for individuals who desire to open burn:
      (1)   All persons desiring to burn must call the county’s Fire Department
to request permission to do so;
      (2)   An officer from the county’s Fire Department may refuse the request
to burn based on weather conditions;
      (3)   Burning shall not be permitted within 150 feet of any wooded area
or within 50 feet of any structure, except for the burning of piles of leaves;
      (4)   An officer of the county’s Fire Department may inspect and
extinguish, or cause to be extinguished, any fire that is deemed unsafe or a
hazard to the health or safety of the public;
      (5)   All debris piles that are permitted to burn shall:
         (a)   Have adequate access for fire and emergency vehicles;
         (b)   Be attended at all times; and
         (c)   Attendant must have equipment on hand to prevent the spread of
fire.
      (6)   Restrictions during fire hazards seasons shall be observed per KRS
149.400;
      (7)   The only allowable burning is that stated as permissible in 401 KAR
63:005; and
      (8)   The Fire Department may recover the cost for suppression of fires
started in violation of this section.
(Prior Code, § 72.002) (Ord. 87-3, passed 2-25-1987; Ord. 2016-6, passed 5-11-
2016)
Cross-reference:
   Outdoor and open burning as nuisances, see §§
90.50 et seq.
§ 151.03 SPRINKLER SYSTEMS.
   All newly installed sprinkler systems or sprinkler systems that are
renovated or retrofitted in any manner shall provide for one, four and one-half
inch connection with national standard male threads and cap instead of and in
lieu of the two and one-half inch connections that have previously been used in
such installations.
(Prior Code, § 72.003) (Ord. 99-9, passed 8-25-1999)
§ 151.04 KEY LOCK BOX.
   (A)   The following structures shall be equipped with a key lock box at or
near the main entrance or such other location required by the County Fire Chief
and/or Fire Marshal which shall contain a key to the structure or building:
      (1)   Commercial or industrial structures that are constructed and issued
a certificate of occupancy after the effective date of this section;
      (2)   Structures utilized for public assembly;
      (3)   Commercial or industrial properties which are in existence at the
effective date of this section but which obtain or seek to obtain a building
permit for construction and/or modification of the existing structure greater
than 2,000 feet gross floor space. Commercial centers, malls, or strip malls
shall be allowed to discharge this requirement by a single lock box for said
center, of adequate size to hold keys to all occupancies located within;
      (4)   Governmental structures and nursing care facilities; and
      (5)   Educational facilities.
   (B)   All newly constructed structures subject to this section shall have
the key lock box installed and operational prior to the issuance of a
certificate of occupancy.
   (C)   The County Fire Chief and/or Fire Marshal shall designate the type of
key lock box system to be implemented within the county and shall have the
authority to require all structures affected by this section to use the
designated system.
   (D)   The owner or operator of any structure required to have a key lock box
shall, at all times, keep a key in the lock box that will allow for access to
the structure.
   (E)   The Fire Chief and/or Fire Marshal shall be authorized to implement
rules and regulations for the use of the lock box system.
(Ord. 2008-4, passed 2-27-2008)
HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES
§ 151.15 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DISASTER AND EMERGENCY SERVICE (DES) DIRECTOR. The official appointed by the
Mayor and County Judge/Executive pursuant to KRS 39B.020.
   EMERGENCY RESPONSE PERSONNEL. Any public employee, including, but not
limited to, any firefighter or emergency response personnel, who responds to
any condition caused in whole or in part by a hazard that jeopardizes or could
jeopardize public health or safety of the environment.
   FIRE CHIEF. The Fire Chief of the City of Winchester or Clark County, or the
next in command.
   HANDLER. Any person who transports or stores a hazardous substance(s).
   HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCE(S). As in KRS 224.01-400, as amended.
   HAZARDOUS WASTE. A defined in KRS 224.01-010, and supporting regulations, as
amended.
   MSDS. A Material Data Safety Sheet prepared pursuant to state law or
pursuant to regulations of the Occupational Safety and Health Administration of
the United States Department of Labor.
   OWNER or OPERATOR. Any person having ownership, control, or executive
authority of a facility where a hazardous substance(s) is handled or used.
   PERSON. Any individual, trust, limited liability company, firm, company,
society, corporation, joint stock company, partnership, consortium,
association, cooperation, joint venture, city, county, special district, state,
or any department or agency or political subdivision thereof, United States
government, or other commercial or legal entity.
   PREPLANNING. A joint assessment by persons storing or handling hazardous
substances and the Fire Chief of the risks associated with the hazardous
substance(s), and may include inspections, joint training, and practice.
   RELEASE. Any spilling, leaking, pumping, pouring, emitting, emptying,
discharging, injecting, escaping, leaching, dumping, or disposing, into the
environment of a hazardous substance(s) in quantities which meet or exceed the
reportable quantity amounts established by state or federal regulation.
   THREATENED RELEASE. A condition creating a substantial probability of a
release when the probability and potential extent of a release make it
reasonably necessary to take immediate action to prevent, reduce, or mitigate
damages to persons, property, or the environment.
   USER. Any person who uses a hazardous substance(s).
(Prior Code, § 72.100) (Ord. 96-17, passed 10-15-1996)
§ 151.16 FIRE CHIEF RESPONSIBILITY.
   The Fire Chief shall be responsible for administering and enforcing the
provisions of this subchapter and shall be responsible for the city’s or
county’s compliance with all applicable state and federal laws and regulations.
The Fire Chief shall further give full access to, and availability of,
information submitted under this subchapter to emergency response personnel and
other appropriate governmental entities on a 24-hour basis. At no time will the
Fire Chief relinquish command and control of the Fire Department during an
emergency response.
(Prior Code, § 72.101) (Ord. 96-17, passed 10-15-1996)
§ 151.17 DES DIRECTOR RESPONSIBILITY.
   The DES Director is authorized and directed to coordinate and cooperate with
the Fire Chief on all hazardous material responses and follow-up.
(Prior Code, § 72.102) (Ord. 96-17, passed 10-15-1996)
§ 151.18 PREPLANNING REQUIRED.
   (A)   Any handler or user of hazardous substances who stores or handles
hazardous materials for any length of time shall immediately notify the Fire
Chief, through the use of a MSDS or other documentation, that a hazardous
substance(s) is being stored.
   (B)   When the storage of such substance(s) is planned to or does exceed 30
days, the responsible person storing, handling, or using that substance(s)
shall notify the Fire Chief and shall engage in preplanning with the Fire
Chief.
   (C)   This section does not apply to storage of hazardous substances at
fixed facilities for less than 30 days, provided those facilities comply with
the other provisions of this subchapter. The 30-day time period set out in this
section continues to run as long as there is a hazardous substance(s) at the
facility and does not require any particular substance(s) to be handled or
stored for over 30 days.
(Prior Code, § 72.103) (Ord. 96-17, passed 10-15-1996)
§ 151.19 HANDLER OR USER RESPONSIBILITY.
   (A)   The owner or operator of any facility at which a hazardous substance
(s) is handled or used shall notify the Fire Chief, through the use of a MSDS
or other documentation, of the substances being stored at the site of the owner
or operator by providing the Fire Chief with a complete inventory and location
of such hazardous substances.
   (B)   The owner or operator shall also implement emergency response plans
and procedures for the mitigation of a release or threatened release to
minimize any potential harm or damage to persons, property, or the environment
as may be necessary for a particular incident and implement evacuation plans
and procedures, including the immediate notice to the Fire Department and to
persons within the immediate site and adjacent properties.
   (C)   The owners and operators shall also provide training for all employees
as required by state and federal OSHA standards and regulations.
   (D)   The owner or operators shall also allow periodic inspections by the
Fire Chief of the storage site.
(Prior Code, § 72.104) (Ord. 96-17, passed 10-15-1996)
§ 151.20 RESPONSE.
   The city and county fire departments are authorized to respond to and abate
the effects of any release or threatened release of hazardous substances into
the environment, pursuant to the existing preplanning agreement, when requested
to do so by the handler or user or when, in the judgment of the Fire Chief,
there exists an imminent hazard to human health or the environment.
(Prior Code, § 72.105) (Ord. 96-17, passed 10-15-1996)
§ 151.21 COST RECOVERY.
   Any person causing an unauthorized release of any hazardous substance(s) or
hazardous waste(s) shall be responsible for its clean-up and all expenditures
pursuant thereto. Any person causing an unauthorized release of any hazardous
substance(s) or hazardous waste which results in the city or county expending
public funds for the response to the release, its abatement, or the cleanup or
removal of such hazardous substance(s) or hazardous waste shall be liable to
the city or county for all recoverable costs as outlined below.
   (A)   In the event of a hazardous substance(s) release or threatened release
involving materials in transit, the shipper (carrier), the owner of the
substances, and all other persons whose activities caused or contributed to a
release or threatened release, jointly and severally, shall be responsible for
all direct costs including, but not limited to, personnel costs of the City of
Winchester and County Fire Department and other dispatched emergency workers
responding to the release or threatened release, replacement costs of supplies
and equipment contaminated as a result of the incident, the costs of proper
disposal of contaminated materials, the cost of cleanup, evacuation, and
administrative and other expenses, including legal expenses, incurred in
recovering these costs. The City and County Attorney are hereby authorized and
directed to initiate such proceedings, in the name of the City of Winchester
and the County Fiscal Court, in any court having jurisdiction over such matters
as are necessary to recover costs of the city or county.
   (B)   In the event of a hazardous substance(s) release or threatened release
involving a fixed facility, the operator, owner, and all other persons of the
facility responsible for the presence of hazardous substances shall be
responsible for all direct costs including, but not limited to, personnel costs
of the City and County Fire Departments and other dispatched emergency workers
in responding to the release or threatened release, including replacement of
supplies and equipment contaminated as a result of the incident, the cost of
proper disposal of contaminated materials, the cost of cleanup, evacuation,
administrative, and other expenses including legal expenses, incurred in
recovering these costs. The City and County Attorney are hereby authorized and
directed to initiate such proceedings, in the name of the City of Winchester
and the County Fiscal Court, in any court having jurisdiction over such matter
as are necessary to recover costs of the city or county.
   (C)   Any hazardous substance(s) or material release shall be considered a
public health hazard and for those responses made by the Winchester or Clark
County Fire Departments and other emergency response personnel involving a
fixed facility within the city or county, the city or county shall have a lien
against the property for the recoverable costs as stated above. The affidavit
of the Fire Chief shall constitute prima facie evidence of the amount of the
lien and the regularity of the proceedings and shall be recorded in the office
of the County Clerk. The lien shall be notice to all persons from the time of
its recording and shall bear interest thereafter until paid. The lien created
shall take precedence over all other subsequent liens, except state, county,
school board, and city taxes, and may be enforced by judicial proceeding. The
owner of a property upon which a lien has been attached shall be personally
liable for the amount of the lien, including all interest, civil penalties, and
other charges and the city or county shall have the same remedies as provided
for the recovery of a debt owed.
(Prior Code, § 72.106) (Ord. 96-17, passed 10-15-1996)
§ 151.22 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   The Fire Chief will have primary responsibility for enforcement of the
provisions of this subchapter.
   (B)   Upon notification or discovery of any violation of the provisions of
§§
151.15 to
151.22, the Fire Chief or his or her next in command shall investigate the
site, and if a violation is found, issue a notice of violation to the person
responsible for the facility. This notice shall provide for immediate abatement
if a release or threatened release is occurring. This notice shall also provide
abatement periods of other violations.
(Prior Code, § 72.107) (Ord. 96-17, passed 10-15-1996)
§ 151.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person who violates the provisions of §
151.02 may be fined not less than $10 nor more than $500 for each offense.
   (C)   Any person who owns or operates a building, business, and/or structure
and does not comply with §
151.04 shall be subject to a minimum fine of $100 each day and a maximum fine
of $500 each day the violation persists. Each day the violation persists shall
constitute a separate offense.
   (D)   Any person who violates the provisions of §
151.19 may be fined not more than $5,000. Each day the violation continues to
exist shall be considered a separate offense.
   (E)   Any person who fails to comply with the provisions of §§
151.18 or
151.21 may be fined not more than $500. Each day the violation continues to
exist shall be considered a separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 72.999) (Ord. 87-3, passed 2-25-1987; Ord. 96-17, passed 10-15-
1996; Ord. 2008-4, passed 2-27-2008)
CHAPTER 152: FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
Section
General Provisions
   
152.01   Statutory authorization
   
152.02   Findings of fact
   
152.03   Statement of purpose
   
152.04   Objectives
   
152.05   Definitions
   
152.06   Lands to which this chapter applies
   
152.07   Basis for establishing the special flood hazard areas
   
152.08   Establishment of development permit
   
152.09   Compliance
   
152.10   Abrogation and greater restrictions
   
152.11   Interpretation
   
152.12   Warning and disclaimer of liability
   
152.13   Enforcement, notice of violation
   
152.14   Appeals and variance procedures
Administration
   
152.25   Designation of local Administrator
   
152.26   Establishment of development permit
   
152.27   Duties and responsibilities of local Administrator
Flood Hazard Reduction Regulations
   
152.40   General construction standards
   
152.41   Specific standards
   
152.42   Standards for steams without established base flood elevation
(unnumbered A Zones) and/or floodways
   
152.43   Standards for shallow flooding areas
   
152.44   Standards for subdivision proposals
   
152.45   Standards for accessory structures in all zones beginning with the
letter “A”
   
152.46   Critical facilities
 
   
152.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 152.01 STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION.
   The State Legislature has in KRS Chapter 100 delegated to local government
units the authority to adopt regulations designed to promote the public health,
safety, and general welfare of its citizenry. Therefore, the County Fiscal
Court hereby adopts the following floodplain management ordinance as follows.
(Ord. 2012-4, passed 4-11-2012)
§ 152.02 FINDINGS OF FACT.
   (A)   The flood hazard areas of the county are subject to periodic
inundation which results in loss of life and property, health and safety
hazards, disruption of commerce and governmental services, extraordinary public
expenditures for flood protection and relief, and impairment of the tax base,
all which adversely affect the public health, safety, and general welfare.
   (B)   These flood losses are caused by the cumulative effect of obstructions
in floodplains causing increased flood height and velocity, and by the location
in flood hazard areas of uses vulnerable to floods or hazardous to other lands
which are inadequately elevated, flood-proofed, or otherwise protected from
flood damage.
(Ord. 2012-4, passed 4-11-2012)
§ 152.03 STATEMENT OF PURPOSE.
   It is the purpose of this chapter to promote the public health, safety, and
general welfare and to minimize public and private loss due to flooding by
provisions designed to:
   (A)   Restrict or prohibit uses which are dangerous to health, safety, and
property due to water erosion hazards, or which result in damaging increases in
erosion or in flood height or velocity;
   (B)   Require that uses vulnerable to floods, including facilities which
serve such uses, be protected against flood damage at the time of initial
construction;
   (C)   Control the alteration of natural floodplains, stream channels, and
natural protective barriers which accommodate or channel flood waters;
   (D)   Control filling, grading, dredging, and other development which may
increase erosion or flood damage; and
   (E)   Prevent or regulate the construction of flood barriers which will
unnaturally divert floodwaters or which may increase flood hazards to other
areas.
(Ord. 2012-4, passed 4-11-2012)
§ 152.04 OBJECTIVES.
   The objectives of this chapter are to:
   (A)   Protect human life and health;
   (B)   Minimize expenditure of public money for costly flood control
projects;
   (C)   Minimize the need for rescue and relief efforts associated with
flooding and generally undertaken at the expense of the general public;
   (D)   Minimize prolonged business interruptions;
   (E)   Minimize damage to public facilities and utilities such as water and
gas mains, electric, telephone, and sewer lines; streets and bridges located in
areas of special flood hazard;
   (F)   Help maintain a stable tax base by providing for the sound use and
development of areas of special flood hazard or other flood-prone areas in such
a manner as to minimize future flood blighted areas caused by flooding;
   (G)   Ensure that potential homebuyers are on notice that property is in a
Special Flood Hazard Area; and
   (H)   Ensure that those who occupy a Special Flood Hazard Area assume
responsibility for their actions.
(Ord. 2012-4, passed 4-11-2012)
§ 152.05 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   A ZONE. Special Flood Hazard Areas inundated by the 1% annual chance flood
(100-year flood). Base flood elevations (BFEs) are not determined.
   ACCESSORY STRUCTURE (APPURTENANT STRUCTURE). A structure located on the same
parcel of property as the principal structure and the use of which is
incidental to the use of the principal structure. ACCESSORY STRUCTURES should
constitute a minimal initial investment, may not be used for human habitation,
and should be designed to have minimal flood damage potential. Examples of
ACCESSORY STRUCTURES are detached garages, carports, storage sheds, pole barns,
and hay sheds.
   ACCESSORY USE. A use which is incidental and subordinate to the principal
use of the parcel of land on which it is located.
   ADDITION (TO AN EXISTING STRUCTURE). Any walled and roofed expansion to the
perimeter or height of a structure.
   AE ZONES. Special Flood Hazard Areas inundated by the 1% annual chance flood
(100-year flood). Base flood elevations (BFEs) are determined.
   AH ZONE. An area of 100-year shallow flooding where depths are between one
and three feet (usually shallow ponding). Base flood elevations are determined.
   AO ZONE. An area of 100-year shallow flooding where water depth is between
one and three feet (usually sheet flow on sloping terrain). Flood depths are
determined.
   APPEAL. A request for a review of the Floodplain Administrator’s
interpretation of any provision of this chapter or from the Floodplain
Administrator’s ruling on a request for a variance.
   AR/A1-30, AR/AE, AR/AH, AR/AO, AND AR/A ZONES. Special Flood Hazard Areas
(SFHAs) that result from the de-certification of a previously accredited flood
protection system that is in the process of being restored to provide a 100-
year or greater level of flood protection. After restoration is complete, these
areas will still experience residual flooding from other flooding sources.
   A99 ZONE. The part of the SFHA inundated by the 100-year flood which is to
be protected from the 100-year flood by a federal flood protection system under
construction. No base flood elevations are determined.
   AREA OF SHALLOW FLOODING. A designated AO or AH Zone on a community’s Flood
Insurance Rate Map (FIRM) where the base flood depths range from one to three
feet, there is no clearly defined channel, the path of flooding is
unpredictable and indeterminate; and velocity flow may be evident. Such
flooding is characterized by ponding or sheet flow.
   BASE FLOOD. A flood which has a 1% chance of being equaled or exceeded in
any given year (also called the 100-YEAR FLOOD). BASE FLOOD is the term used
throughout this chapter.
   BASE FLOOD ELEVATION (BFE). The elevation shown on the Flood Insurance Rate
Map (FIRM) for Zones AE, AH, A1-30, AR, AR/A, AR/AE, AR/A1-30, AR/AH, and AR/AO
that indicates the water surface elevation resulting from a flood that has a 1%
or greater chance of being equaled or exceeded in any given year.
   BASEMENT. Any area of a structure having its floor sub-grade (below ground
level) on all sides.
   BUILDING. See definition for STRUCTURE.
   COMMUNITY. A political entity having the authority to adopt and enforce
floodplain ordinances for the area under its jurisdiction.
   COMMUNITY FLOOD HAZARD AREA (CFHA). An area that has been determined by the
Floodplain Administrator (or other delegated, designated, or qualified
community official) from available technical studies, historical information,
and other available and reliable sources, which may be subject to periodic
inundation by floodwaters that can adversely affect the public health, safety,
and general welfare. This includes areas downstream from dams.
   COMMUNITY RATING SYSTEM (CRS). A program developed by the Federal Insurance
Administration to provide incentives to those communities in the regular
program to go beyond the minimum floodplain management requirements to develop
extra measures for protection from flooding.
   CRITICAL FACILITY. Any property that, if flooded, would result in severe
consequences to public health and safety or a facility which, if unusable or
unreachable because of flooding, would seriously and adversely affect the
health and safety of the public. CRITICAL FACILITIES include, but are not
limited to: housing likely to contain occupants not sufficiently mobile to
avoid injury or death unaided during a flood; schools, nursing homes,
hospitals, police, fire and emergency response installations, vehicle and
equipment storage facilities, emergency operations centers likely to be called
upon before, during, and after a flood; public and private utility facilities
important to maintaining or restoring normal services before, during, and after
a flood; and those facilities or installations which produce, use, or store
volatile, flammable, explosive, toxic, and/or water-reactive materials,
hazardous materials, or hazardous waste.
   D ZONE. An area in which the flood hazard is undetermined.
   DEVELOPMENT. Any human-made change to improved or unimproved real estate,
including, but not limited to, buildings or other structures, mining, dredging,
filling, grading, paving, excavating, drilling operations, or storage of
equipment or materials.
   ELEVATED STRUCTURE. For insurance proposes, a non-basement structure built
to have the lowest floor elevated above ground level by foundation walls, shear
walls, posts, piers, pilings, or columns.
   ELEVATION CERTIFICATE. A statement certified by a registered professional
engineer or surveyor on the FEMA-approved form in effect at the time of
certification that verifies a structure’s elevation and other related
information to verify compliance with this chapter.
   EMERGENCY PROGRAM. The initial phase under which a community participates in
the NFIP, intended to provide a first layer amount of insurance at subsidized
rates on all insurable structures in that community before the effective date
of the initial FIRM.
   ENCLOSURE. The portion of a structure below the lowest floor used solely for
parking of vehicles, limited storage, or access to the structure.
   ENCROACHMENT. The physical advance or infringement of uses, plant growth,
fill, excavation, structures, or development into a floodplain, which may
impede or alter the flow capacity of a floodplain.
   EXISTING CONSTRUCTION. Any structure for which the “start of construction”
commenced before the effective date of the FIRM or before January 1, 1975, for
FIRMs effective before that date. EXISTING CONSTRUCTION may also be referred to
as existing structures.
   EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including, at a minimum the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed before the effective date
of the first floodplain management ordinance adopted by a community.
   EXPANSION TO AN EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. The
preparation of additional sites by the construction of facilities for servicing
the lots on which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads).
   500-YEAR FLOOD. The flood that has a 0.2% chance of being equaled or
exceeded in any year. Areas subject to the 500-YEAR FLOOD have a moderate risk
of flooding.
   FLOOD or FLOODING. A general and temporary condition of partial or complete
inundation of normally dry land areas from:
      (1)   The overflow of inland or tidal waters;
      (2)   The unusual and rapid accumulation or runoff of surface waters from
any source;
      (3)   Mudslides which are proximately caused by flooding and are akin to
a river of liquid and flowing mud on the surfaces of normally dry land areas,
as when earth is carried by a current of water and deposited along the path of
the current; and/or
      (4)   The collapse or subsidence of land along the shore of a lake or
other body of water as a result of erosion or undermining caused by waves or
currents of water exceeding anticipated cyclical levels or suddenly caused by
an unusually high water level in a natural body of water, accompanied by a
severe storm, or by an unanticipated force of nature, such as flash flood or an
abnormal tidal surge, or by some similarly unusual and unforeseeable event
which results in flooding.
   FLOOD BOUNDARY AND FLOODWAY MAP (FBFM). A map on which the Federal Emergency
Management Agency (FEMA) has delineated the areas of flood hazards and the
regulatory floodway.
   FLOOD HAZARD BOUNDARY MAP (FHBM). A map on which the boundaries of the
flood, mudslide (i.e. mudflow), and flood-related erosion areas having special
hazards have been designated as Zones A, M, and/or E by the Federal Emergency
Management Agency (FEMA).
   FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (FIRM). A map on which the Federal Emergency
Management Agency (FEMA) has delineated special flood hazard areas and risk
premium zones.
   FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY. The report provided by the Federal Emergency
Management Agency (FEMA) containing flood profiles, the Flood Insurance Rate
Map (FIRM), and/or the Flood Boundary Floodway Map (FBFM), and the water
surface elevation of the base flood.
   FLOODPLAIN or FLOOD-PRONE AREA. Any land area susceptible to being inundated
by flood waters from any source.
   FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR. The individual appointed by the community to
administer and enforce the floodplain management ordinances.
   FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT. The operation of an overall program of corrective and
preventive measures for reducing flood damage and preserving and enhancing
natural resources in the floodplain, including, but not limited to, emergency
preparedness plans, flood control works, floodplain management ordinances, and
open space plans.
   FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT REGULATIONS. This chapter and other zoning ordinances,
subdivision regulations, building codes, health regulations, special purpose
ordinances (such as grading and erosion control), and other applications of
police power, which control development in flood-prone areas. This term
describes federal, state, and/or local regulations, in any combination thereof,
which provide standards for the purpose of flood damage prevention and
reduction.
   FLOOD-PROOFING. Any combination of structural and non-structural additions,
changes, or adjustments to structures which reduce or eliminate flood damage to
real estate or improved real property, water and sanitation facilities,
structures, and their contents.
   FLOOD-PROOFING CERTIFICATE. A certification by a registered professional
engineer or architect, the FEMA form in effect at the time of certification
stating that a nonresidential structure, together with attendant utilities and
sanitary facilities is watertight to a specified design elevation with walls
that are substantially impermeable to the passage of water and all structural
components are capable of resisting hydrostatic and hydrodynamic flood forces,
including the effects of buoyancy and anticipated debris impact forces.
   FLOODWAY. The channel of a river or other watercourse and the adjacent land
areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the base flood without
cumulatively increasing the water surface elevation more than one foot; also
referred to as the REGULATORY FLOODWAY.
   FLOODWAY FRINGE. The area of the floodplain on either side of the regulatory
floodway.
   FRAUD AND VICTIMIZATION. As related in §
152.14, means that the variance granted must not cause fraud on or
victimization of the public. In examining this requirement, the County Fiscal
Court will consider the fact that every newly constructed structure adds to
government responsibilities and remains a part of the community for 50 to 100
years. Structures that are permitted to be constructed below the base flood
elevation are subject during all those years to increased risk of damage from
floods, while future owners of the property and the community as a whole are
subject to all the costs, inconvenience, danger, and suffering that those
increased flood damages may incur. In addition, future owners may purchase the
property, unaware that it is subject to potential flood damage, and can be
insured only at very high flood insurance rates.
   FREEBOARD. A factor of safety, usually expressed in feet above the BFE,
which is applied for the purposes of floodplain management. It is used to
compensate for the many unknown factors that could contribute to flood heights
greater than those calculated for the base flood. FREEBOARD must be applied not
just to the elevation of the lowest floor or flood-proofing level, but also to
the level of protection provided to all components of the structure, such as
building utilities, HVAC components, and the like.
   FUNCTIONALLY DEPENDENT USE FACILITY. A facility, structure, or other
development which cannot be used for its intended purpose unless it is located
or carried out in close proximity to water. The term includes only a docking or
port facility necessary for the loading and unloading of cargo or passengers,
shipbuilding, or ship repair. The term does not include long-term storage,
manufacture, sales, or service facilities.
   GOVERNING BODY. The local governing unit (i.e., county or municipality that
is empowered to adopt and implement ordinances to provide for the public
health, safety, and general welfare of its citizenry).
   HAZARD POTENTIAL. The possible adverse incremental consequences that result
from the release of water or stored contents due to failure of a dam or
misoperation of a dam or appurtenances. The HAZARD POTENTIAL classification of
a dam does not reflect in any way the current condition of a dam and its
appurtenant structures (e.g., safety, structural integrity, flood routing
capacity).
   HIGHEST ADJACENT GRADE. The highest natural elevation of the ground surface,
prior to construction, next to the proposed walls of a structure.
   HISTORIC STRUCTURE. Any structure that is:
      (1)   Listed individually in the National Register of Historic Places (a
listing maintained by the Department of Interior) or preliminarily determined
by the Secretary of the Interior as meeting the requirements for individual
listing on the National Register;
      (2)   Certified or preliminarily determined by the Secretary of the
Interior as contributing to the historical significance of a registered
historic district or a district preliminarily determined by the Secretary to
qualify as a registered historic district;
      (3)   Individually listed on a state inventory of historic places in
states with historic preservation programs which have been approved by the
Secretary of the Interior; or
      (4)   Individually listed on a local inventory of historic places in
communities with historic preservation programs that have been certified
either:
         (a)   By an approved state program as determined by the Secretary of
the Interior; or
         (b)   Directly by the Secretary of the Interior in states without
approved programs.
   INCREASED COST OF COMPLIANCE (ICC). 
      (1)   Includes under the standard flood insurance policy the cost to
repair a substantially flood damaged building that exceeds the minimal repair
cost and that is required to bring a substantially damaged building into
compliance with the local flood damage prevention ordinance. Acceptable
mitigation measures are flood-proofing (nonresidential), relocation, elevation,
demolition, or any combination thereof.
      (2)   ICC coverage is available on residential and nonresidential
buildings (this category includes public or government buildings, such as
schools, libraries, and municipal buildings) insured under the NFIP.
   LETTER OF MAP CHANGE (LOMC). An official FEMA determination, by letter, to
amend or revise effective Flood Insurance Rate Maps, Flood Boundary and
Floodway Maps, and Flood Insurance Studies. LOMCs include the following
categories.
      (1)   LETTER OF MAP AMENDMENT (LOMA). A revision based on technical data
showing that a property was inadvertently included in a designated SFHA. A LOMA
amends the current effective FIRM and establishes that a specific property is
not located in a SFHA.
      (2)   LETTER OF MAP REVISION (LOMR). A revision based on technical data
that, usually due to human-made changes, shows changes to flood zones, flood
elevations, floodplain and floodway delineations, and planimetric features.
      (3)   LETTER OF MAP REVISION - BASED ON FILL (LOMR-F). A determination
that a structure or parcel has been elevated by properly placed engineered fill
above the BFE and is, therefore, excluded from the SHFA.
   LEVEE. A human-made structure, usually an earthen embankment, designed and
constructed in accordance with sound engineering practices to contain, control,
or divert the flow of water so as to provide protection from temporary
flooding.
   LEVEE SYSTEM. A flood protection system that consists of a levee, or levees,
and associated structures, such as closure and drainage devices, which are
constructed and operated in accordance with sound engineering practices.
   LIMITED STORAGE. An area used for storage and intended to be limited to
incidental items which can withstand exposure to the elements and have low
flood damage potential. Such an area must be of flood resistant material, void
of utilities except for essential lighting, and cannot be temperature
controlled.
   LOWEST ADJACENT GRADE. The lowest elevation of the sidewalk, patio, attached
garage, deck support, basement entryway, or grade immediately next to the
structure and after the completion of construction.
   LOWEST FLOOR. The lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area including
basement. An unfinished or flood resistant enclosure, usable solely for parking
of vehicles, structure access, or storage in an area other than a basement area
is not considered a structure’s LOWEST FLOOR, provided that such enclosure is
not built so as to render the structure in violation of the applicable non-
elevation design requirements of this chapter.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. A structure, transportable in one or more sections, which
is built on a permanent chassis and is designed to be used with or without a
permanent foundation when connected or attached to the required utilities. The
term also includes park trailers, travel trailers, and similar transportable
structures placed on a site for 180 consecutive days or longer and intended to
be improved property. The term MANUFACTURED HOME does not include a
“recreational vehicle”. (See RECREATIONAL VEHICLE.)
   MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A parcel (or contiguous parcels) of
land divided into two or more manufactured home lots for rent or sale.
   MAP. The Flood Hazard Boundary Map (FHBM) or the Flood Insurance Rate Map
(FIRM) for a community issued by the Federal Emergency Management Agency
(FEMA).
   MAP PANEL NUMBER. The four-digit number on a flood map, followed by a letter
suffix, assigned by FEMA. The first four digits represent the map panel. The
letter suffix represents the number of times the map panel has been revised.
(The letter “A” is not used by FEMA, the letter “B” is the first revision.)
   MARKET VALUE. The property value (as agreed between a willing buyer and
seller), excluding the value of the land as established by what the local real
estate market will bear. MARKET VALUE of the structure can be established by
independent certified appraisal; replacement cost depreciated by age of
structure (actual cash value) or adjusted assessed values.
   MEAN SEA LEVEL (MSL). The average height of the sea for all stages of the
tide. For the purposes of the National Flood Insurance Program, the MSL is used
as a reference for establishing various elevations within the floodplain as
shown on the community’s FIRM. For purposes of this chapter, the term is
synonymous with either National Geodetic Vertical Datum (NGVD) of 1929 or North
American Vertical Datum (NAVD) of 1988.
   MITIGATION. Sustained actions taken to reduce or eliminate long-term risk to
people and property from hazards and their effects. The purpose of MITIGATION
is twofold: to protect people and structures; and to minimize the costs of
disaster response and recovery.
   MUDSLIDE (MUDFLOW). Describes a condition where there is a river, flow, or
inundation of liquid mud down a hillside, usually as a result of a dual
condition of loss of brush cover and the subsequent accumulation of water on
the ground, preceded by a period of unusually heavy or sustained rain. A
MUDSLIDE (MUDFLOW) may occur as a distinct phenomenon while a landslide is in
progress, and will be recognized as such by the Floodplain Administrator only
if the mudflow, and not the landslide, is the proximate cause of damage that
occurs.
   MUDSLIDE (MUDFLOW) AREA MANAGEMENT. The operation of and overall program of
corrective and preventative measures for reducing mudslide (i.e., mudflow)
damage, including, but not limited to, emergency preparedness plans, mudslide
control works, and floodplain management regulations.
   MUDSLIDE (MUDFLOW) PRONE AREA. An area with land surfaces and slopes of
unconsolidated material where the history, geology, and climate indicate a
potential for mudflow.
   NATIONAL FLOOD INSURANCE PROGRAM (NFIP). The federal program that makes
flood insurance available to owners of property in participating communities
nationwide through the cooperative efforts of the federal government and the
private insurance industry.
   NATIONAL GEODETIC VERTICAL DATUM (NGVD). As corrected in 1929, a vertical
control used as a reference for establishing varying elevations within the
floodplain. (Generally used as the vertical datum on the older FIRMs. Refer to
FIRM legend panel for correct datum.)
   NEW CONSTRUCTION. Structures for which the start of construction commenced
on or after the effective date of a floodplain management regulation adopted by
a community and includes any subsequent improvements to such structures.
   NEW MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed on or after the effective
date of floodplain management regulations adopted by a community.
   NONRESIDENTIAL. Structures that are not designed for human habitation,
including, but is not limited to, small business concerns, churches, schools,
farm structures (including grain bins and silos), pool houses, clubhouses,
recreational structures, mercantile structures, agricultural and industrial
structures, warehouses, and hotels or motels with normal room rentals for less
than six months duration.
   NORTH AMERICAN VERTICAL DATUM (NAVD). As corrected in 1988, a vertical
control used as a reference for establishing varying elevations within the
floodplain. (Generally used on the newer FIRMs and Digitally Referenced FIRMs
(DFIRMs). (Refer to FIRM or DFIRM panel legend for correct datum.)
   OBSTRUCTION. Includes but is not limited to any dam, wall, embankment,
levee, dike, pile, abutment, protection, excavation, channelization, bridge,
conduit, culvert, structure, wire, fence, rock, gravel, refuse, fill,
structure, vegetation, or other material in, along, across, or projecting into
any watercourse which may alter, impede, retard, or change the direction and/or
velocity of the flow of water, due to its location, its propensity to snare or
collect debris carried by the flow of water, or its likelihood of being carried
downstream.
   100-YEAR FLOOD. The flood that has a 1% or greater chance of being equaled
or exceeded in any given year. Any flood zone that begins with the letter A is
subject to inundation by the 100-YEAR FLOOD. Over the life of a 30-year loan,
there is a 26% chance of experiencing such a flood with the SFHA. (See BASE
FLOOD.)
   PARTICIPATING COMMUNITY. A community that voluntarily elects to participate
in the NFIP by adopting and enforcing floodplain management regulations that
are consistent with the standards of the NFIP.
   PRE-FIRM CONSTRUCTION. New construction or substantial improvements for
which start of construction occurred on or before December 31, 1974, or before
the effective date of the initial FIRM of the community, whichever is later.
   POST-FIRM CONSTRUCTION. New construction or substantial improvements for
which start of construction occurred after December 31, 1974, or on or after
the effective date of the initial FIRM of the community, whichever is later.
   PROBATION. A FEMA imposed change in community’s status resulting from
violations and deficiencies in the administration and enforcement of the local
floodplain management regulations.
   PROGRAM DEFICIENCY. A defect in a community’s floodplain management
regulations or administrative procedures that impairs effective implementation
of those floodplain management standards.
   PUBLIC SAFETY AND NUISANCE. Anything which is injurious to safety or health
of an entire community or neighborhood, or any considerable number of persons,
or unlawfully obstructs the free passage or use, in the customary manner, of
any navigable lake, or river, bay, stream, canal, or basin.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. A vehicle that is:
      (1)   Built on a single chassis;
      (2)   Four hundred square feet or less when measured at the largest
horizontal projection;
      (3)   Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable to a light
duty truck; and
      (4)   Designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling but as
temporary living quarters for recreational, camping, travel, or seasonal use.
   REGULAR PROGRAM. The phase of a community’s participation in the NFIP where
more comprehensive floodplain management requirements are imposed and higher
amounts of insurance are available based upon risk zones and flood elevations
determined in the FIS.
   REGULATORY FLOODWAY. The channel of a river or other watercourse and the
adjacent land areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the base flood
without cumulatively increasing the water surface elevation more than one foot.
See BASE FLOOD.
   REMEDY A VIOLATION. The process by which a community brings a structure or
other development into compliance with state or local floodplain management
regulations, or, if this is not possible, to reduce the impact of
noncompliance. Reduced impact may include protecting the structure or other
affected development from flood damages, implementing the enforcement
provisions of the ordinance or otherwise deterring future similar violations,
or reducing state or federal financing exposure with regard to the structure or
other development.
   REPAIR. The reconstruction or renewal of any part of an existing structure.
   REPETITIVE LOSS. Flood-related damages sustained by a structure on two
separate occasions during a ten-year period for which the cost of repairs at
the time of each such flood event, on average, equals or exceeds 25% of the
market value of the structure before the damage occurred.
   REPETITIVE LOSS PROPERTY. Any insurable building for which two or more
claims of more than $1,000 were paid by the National Flood Insurance Program
(NFIP) within any rolling ten-year period, since 1978. At least two of the
claims must be more than ten days apart but, within ten years of each other. A
RL property may or may not be currently insured by the NFIP.
   RIVERINE. Relating to, formed by, or resembling a river (including
tributaries), stream, brook, and the like.
   SECTION 1316. The section of the National Flood Insurance Act of 1968, being
42 U.S.C. § 4023, as amended, which states that no new or renewal flood
insurance coverage shall be provided for any property that the Floodplain
Administrator finds has been declared by a duly constituted state or local
zoning authority or other authorized public body to be in violation of state or
local laws, regulations, or ordinances that are intended to discourage or
otherwise restrict land development or occupancy in flood- prone areas.
   SEVERE REPETITIVE LOSS STRUCTURE. 
      (1)   Any insured property that has met at least one of the following
paid flood loss criteria since 1978, regardless of ownership:
         (a)   Four or more separate claim payments of more than $5,000 each
(including building and contents payments); or
         (b)   Two or more separate claim payments (building payments only)
where the total of the payments exceeds the current market value of the
property.
      (2)   In either case, two of the claim payments must have occurred within
ten years of each other. Multiple losses at the same location within ten days
of each other are counted as one loss, with the payment amounts added together.
   SHEET FLOW AREA. See AREA OF SHALLOW FLOODING.
   SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA (SFHA). The portion of the floodplain subject to
inundation by the base flood and/or flood-related erosion hazards as shown on a
FHBM or FIRM as Zone A, AE, A1-30, AH, AO, or AR.
   START OF CONSTRUCTION. (Includes substantial improvement and other proposed
new development.) The date a building permit is issued, provided the actual
START OF CONSTRUCTION, repair, reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition,
placement, or other improvement is within 180 days of the permit date. The
actual START means the first placement of permanent construction of a structure
(including manufactured home) on a site, such as the pouring of slabs or
footings, the installation of piles, construction of columns, or any work
beyond the stage of excavation; or the placement of a manufactured home on a
foundation. Permanent construction does not include land preparation, such as
clearing, grading, and filling; nor does it include the installation of streets
and/or walkways; nor does it include excavation for a basement, footings,
piers, or foundations or the erection of temporary forms; the installation on
the property of accessory structures, such as garages or sheds not occupied as
dwelling units or not part of the main structure. For a substantial
improvement, the actual START OF CONSTRUCTION means the first alteration of any
wall, ceiling, floor, or other structural part of a building, whether or not
that alteration affects the external dimensions of the structure.
   STRUCTURE. A walled and roofed building, including gas or liquid storage
tank that is principally above ground, as well as a manufactured home.
   SUBDIVISION. Any division, for the purposes of sale, lease, or development,
either on the installment plan or upon any and all other plans, terms, and
conditions, of any tract or parcel of land into two or more lots or parcels.
   SUBROGATION. A legal action brought by FEMA to recover insurance money paid
out where all or part of the damage can be attributed to acts or omissions by a
community or other third party.
   SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE. Damage of any origin sustained by a structure whereby
the cost of restoring the structure to it’s before damaged condition would
equal or exceed 50% of the market value of the structure before the damage
occurred.
   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT. Any reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition, or
other improvement of a structure, taking place during a one-year period in
which the cumulative percentage of improvements equals or exceeds 50% of the
market value of the structure before the “start of construction” of the
improvement. This term includes structures which have incurred “substantial
damage”, regardless of the actual repair work performed. The term does not,
however, include either:
      (1)   Any project for improvement of a structure to correct existing
violations of state or local health, sanitary, or safety code specifications
which have been identified by the local Code Enforcement Official and which are
the minimum necessary to assure safe living conditions; or
      (2)   Any alteration of a “historic structure”, provided that the
alteration will not preclude the structure’s continued designation as a
“historic structure”.
   SUBSTANTIALLY IMPROVED EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARKS OR SUBDIVISIONS.
Repair, reconstruction, rehabilitation, or improvement of the streets,
utilities, and pads equaling or exceeding 50% of the value of the streets,
utilities, and pads before the repair, reconstruction, or improvement
commenced.
   SUSPENSION. Removal of a participating community from the NFIP for failure
to enact and/or enforce floodplain management regulations required for
participation in the NFIP.
   UTILITIES. Includes, but is not limited to, electrical, heating,
ventilation, plumbing, and air conditioning equipment that service the
structure and the site.
   VARIANCE. Relief from some or all of the requirements of this chapter.
   VIOLATION. Failure of a structure or other development to fully comply with
this chapter. A structure or other development without the elevation
certificate, other certifications, or other evidence of compliance required in
this chapter is presumed to be in violation until such time as that
documentation is provided.
   WATER SURFACE ELEVATION. The height, in relation to the National Geodetic
Vertical Datum (NGVD) of 1929, (or other datum, where specified) of floods of
various magnitudes and frequencies in the floodplains of coastal or riverine
areas.
   WATERCOURSE. A lake, river, creek, stream, wash, channel, or other
topographic feature on or over which water flows at least periodically.
   WATERSHED. All the area within a geographic boundary from which water,
sediments, dissolved materials, and other transportable materials drain or are
carried by water to a common outlet, such as a point on a larger stream, lake,
or underlying aquifer.
   X (SHADED) AND B ZONES. Areas of the 0.2% annual chance (500-year) flood
that are outside of the SFHA, areas subject to the 100-year flood with average
depths of less than one foot or with contributing drainage area less than one
square mile, and areas protected by levees from the base flood
   X (UNSHADED) AND C ZONES. Areas determined to be outside the 500-year
floodplain.
   ZONE. A geographical area shown on a Flood Hazard Boundary Map or a Flood
Insurance Rate Map that reflects the severity or type of flooding in the area.
(Ord. 2012-4, passed 4-11-2012)
§ 152.06 LANDS TO WHICH THIS CHAPTER APPLIES.
   This chapter shall apply to all Special Flood Hazard Areas (SFHA), areas
applicable to KRS 151.250 and, as determined by the Floodplain Administrator or
other delegated, designated, or qualified community official as determined by
the County Fiscal Court from available technical studies, historical
information, and other available and reliable sources, areas within the
jurisdiction of the County Fiscal Court which may be subject to periodic
inundation by floodwaters that can adversely affect the public health, safety,
and general welfare of the citizens of the county.
(Ord. 2012-4, passed 4-11-2012)
§ 152.07 BASIS FOR ESTABLISHING THE SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREAS.
   The areas of special flood hazard identified by the Federal Emergency
Management Agency (FEMA) in the Flood Insurance Study (FIS) for Clark County,
dated June 5, 2012, with the accompanying Flood Insurance Rate Maps (FIRMS),
other supporting data, and any subsequent amendments thereto, are hereby
adopted by reference and declared to be a part of these regulations. This FIS
and attendant mapping is the minimum area of applicability of this chapter and
may be supplemented by studies for other areas which allow implementation of
this chapter and which are recommended to the Fiscal Court by the Floodplain
Administrator and are enacted by the Fiscal Court pursuant to statutes
governing land use management regulations. The FIS and/or FIRM are permanent
records of the county and are on file and available for review by the public
during regular business hours at the Office of Planning and Community
Development located in City Hall at 32 Wall St., Winchester, Kentucky.
(Ord. 2012-4, passed 4-11-2012)
§ 152.08 ESTABLISHMENT OF DEVELOPMENT PERMIT.
   A development permit shall be required in conformance with the provision of
this chapter prior to the commencement of any development activities in the
special flood hazard areas (SFHA). See §
152.26 for instructions and explanation. Application for a development permit
shall be made on forms furnished by the Floodplain Administrator.
(Ord. 2012-4, passed 4-11-2012)
§ 152.09 COMPLIANCE.
   No structure or land shall hereafter be constructed, located, extended,
converted, or structurally altered without full compliance with the terms of
this chapter and other applicable state regulations. Violation of the
requirements (including violations of conditions and safeguards established in
connection with conditions) shall constitute a misdemeanor. Nothing herein
shall prevent the Fiscal Court from taking such lawful action as is necessary
to prevent or remedy any violation.
(Ord. 2012-4, passed 4-11-2012)
§ 152.10 ABROGATION AND GREATER RESTRICTIONS.
   This chapter is not intended to repeal, abrogate, or impair any existing
easements, covenants, or deed restrictions. However, where this chapter and
another ordinance, easement, covenant, or deed restriction conflict or overlap,
whichever imposes the more stringent restrictions shall prevail.
(Ord. 2012-4, passed 4-11-2012)
§ 152.11 INTERPRETATION.
   In the interpretation and application of this chapter, all provisions shall
be:
   (A)   Considered minimum requirements;
   (B)   Liberally construed in favor of the governing body; and
   (C)   Deemed neither to limit nor repeal any other powers granted under
state statutes.
(Ord. 2012-4, passed 4-11-2012)
§ 152.12 WARNING AND DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY.
   The degree of flood protection required by this chapter is considered
reasonable for regulatory purposes and is based on scientific and engineering
considerations. Larger floods can and will occur on rare occasions. Flood
heights may be increased by human-made or natural causes. This chapter does not
imply that land outside the areas of special flood hazard or uses permitted
within such areas will be free from flooding or flood damage. This chapter
shall not create liability on the part of the County Fiscal Court, any officer
or employee thereof, for any flood damages that result from reliance on this
chapter or any administrative decision lawfully made hereunder.
(Ord. 2012-4, passed 4-11-2012)
§ 152.13 ENFORCEMENT, NOTICE OF VIOLATION.
   (A)   Civil offense. If, at any time, development occurs which is not in
accordance with the provisions of this chapter, including obtaining or
complying with the terms and conditions of a floodplain development permit and
any approved modifications, such development shall constitute a civil offense.
   (B)   Notice of violation. If, at any time, a duly authorized employee or
agent of the Floodplain Administrator has reasonable cause to believe that a
person has caused development to occur which is not in accordance with the
provisions of this chapter, including obtaining or complying with the terms and
conditions of a floodplain development permit and any approved modifications
thereof, a duly authorized employee of the Floodplain Administrator shall issue
a notice to the person responsible for the violation and/or the property owner,
stating the facts of the offense or violation, the section of this chapter and/
or of the permit violated, when it occurred, how the violation is to be
remedied to bring the development into conformity with this chapter or with the
approved permit, and within what period of time the remedy is to occur, which
period of time shall be reasonable and shall be determined by the nature of the
violation and whether or not it creates a nuisance or hazard. The remedy may
include an order to stop work on the development. The notice shall also state
that a citation may be forthcoming in the event that the requested remedies and
corrective actions are not taken, which citation will request a civil monetary
fine and shall state the maximum fine which could be imposed. See below.
   (C)   Notice of citation. If, at any time, a duly authorized employee or
agent of the Floodplain Administrator has reasonable cause to believe that a
person has caused development to occur which is not in accordance with the
provisions of this chapter, including obtaining or complying with the terms and
conditions of a floodplain development permit and any approved modifications
thereof, a duly authorized employee of the Floodplain Administrator may issue a
citation to the offender stating the violation, prior notices of violation
issued, how the violation is to be remedied to bring the development into
conformity with this chapter or with the approved permit, and within what
period of time the remedy is to occur, and what penalty or penalties are
recommended. When a citation is issued, the person to whom the citation is
issued shall respond to the citation within seven days of the date the citation
is issued by either carrying out the remedies and corrections set forth in the
citation, paying the civil fine set forth in the citation, or requesting a
hearing before the governing body. If the person to whom the citation is issued
does not respond to the citation within seven days, that person shall be deemed
to have waived the right to a hearing and the determination that a violation
occurred shall be considered final.
(Ord. 2012-4, passed 4-11-2012)
§ 152.14 APPEALS AND VARIANCE PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Nature of variances.
      (1)   The variance criteria set forth in this section are based on the
general principle of zoning law that variances pertain to a piece of property
and are not personal in nature. A variance may be granted for a parcel of
property with physical characteristics so unusual that complying with the
requirements of this chapter would create an exceptional hardship to the
applicant or the surrounding property owners. The characteristics must be
unique to the property and not be shared by adjacent parcels. The unique
characteristic must pertain to the land itself, not to the structure, its
inhabitants, or the property owners.
      (2)   It is the duty of the County Fiscal Court to help protect its
citizens from flooding. This need is so compelling and the implications of the
cost of insuring a structure built below flood level is so serious that
variances from the flood elevation or from other requirements in this chapter
are quite rare. The long-term goal of preventing and reducing flood loss and
damage can only be met if variances are strictly limited. Therefore, the
variance guidelines provided in this chapter are more detailed and contain
multiple provisions that must be met before a variance can be properly granted.
The criteria are designed to screen out those situations in which alternatives
other than a variance are more appropriate.
   (B)   Designation of variance and Appeal Board. The County Fiscal Court
designates the Winchester/Clark County Board of Zoning Adjustments as the Board
that shall hear appeals for variances to this chapter.
   (C)   Duties of the Winchester/Clark County Board of Zoning Adjustments.
      (1)   The Winchester/Clark County Board of Zoning Adjustments shall hear
and decide requests for variances from the requirements of this chapter and
appeals of decisions or determinations made by the Floodplain Administrator in
the enforcement or administration of this chapter.
      (2)   Any person aggrieved by the decision of the Winchester/Clark County
Board of Zoning Adjustments may appeal such decision to the Circuit Court, as
provided in Kentucky Revised Statutes.
   (D)   Variance procedures. In passing upon such applications, the
Winchester/Clark County Board of Zoning Adjustments shall consider all
technical evaluations, all relevant factors, all standards specified in other
sections of this chapter, and the:
      (1)   Danger that materials may be swept onto other lands to the injury
of others;
      (2)   Danger to life and property due to flooding or erosion damage;
      (3)   Susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents to flood
damage and the effect of such damage on the existing individual owner and
future owners of the property;
      (4)   Importance to the community of the services provided by the
existing or proposed facility;
      (5)   Necessity that the facility be located on a waterfront, in the case
of functionally dependent use;
       (6)   Availability of alternative locations which are not subject to
flooding or erosion damage;
      (7)   Compatibility of the proposed use with existing and anticipated
development;
      (8)   Relationship of the proposed use to the comprehensive plan and
floodplain management program for that area;
      (9)   Safety of access to the property in times of flood for ordinary and
emergency vehicles;
      (10)   Expected height, velocity, duration, rate of rise, and sediment
transport of the flood waters and the effects of wave action, if applicable,
expected at the site; and
      (11)   Costs of providing governmental services during and after flood
conditions, including maintenance and repair of public utilities and facilities
such as sewer, gas, electrical, water systems, streets, and bridges and
culverts.
   (E)   Conditions for variances. Upon consideration of the factors listed
above and the purposes of this chapter, the Winchester/Clark County Board of
Zoning Adjustments may attach such conditions to the granting of variances as
it deems necessary to further the purposes of this chapter.
      (1)   Variances shall not be issued within any mapped regulatory floodway
if any increase in flood levels during the base flood discharge would result.
      (2)   Variances shall only be issued upon a determination that the
variance is the “minimum necessary” to afford relief considering the flood
hazard. MINIMUM NECESSARY means to afford relief with a minimum of deviation
from the requirements of this chapter. For example, in the case of variances to
an elevation requirement, this means the Winchester/Clark County Board of
Zoning Adjustments need not grant permission for the applicant to build at
grade, or even to whatever elevation the applicant proposes, but only to that
elevation which the Winchester/Clark County Board of Zoning Adjustments
believes will both provide relief and preserve the integrity of the local
ordinance.
      (3)   Variances shall only be issued upon:
         (a)   A showing of good and sufficient cause;
         (b)   A determination that failure to grant the variance would result
in exceptional hardship to the applicant; and
         (c)   A determination that the granting of a variance will not result
in increased flood height, additional threats to public safety, cause
extraordinary public expense, create nuisance (as defined in the definition
section under “public safety and nuisance”), cause fraud or victimization of
the public (as defined in the definition section), or conflict with existing
local laws or ordinances.
      (4)   Any applicant to whom a variance is granted shall be given written
notice specifying the difference between the base flood elevation and the
elevation to which the structure is to be built and stating that the cost of
flood insurance will be commensurate with the increased risk resulting from the
lowest floor being situated below the base flood elevation.
      (5)   The Floodplain Administrator shall maintain the records of all
appeal actions and report any variances to the Federal Emergency Management
Agency (FEMA) upon request
      (6)   Variances may be issued for new construction, substantial
improvement, and other proposed new development necessary for the conduct of a
functionally dependent use, provided that the provisions of division (D) above
are satisfied and that the structure or other development is protected by
methods that minimize flood damages during the base flood and does not result
in additional threats to public safety and does not create a public nuisance.
   (F)   Variance notification. Any applicant to whom a variance is granted
shall be given written notice over the signature of a community official that:
      (1)   The issuance of a variance to construct a structure below the base
flood elevation will result in increased premium rates for flood insurance up
to amounts as high as $25 for $100 of insurance coverage;
      (2)   Such construction below the base flood level increases risks to
life and property. A copy of the notice shall be recorded by the Floodplain
Administrator in the office of the County Recorder and shall be recorded in a
manner so that it appears in the chain of title of the affected parcel of land;
and
      (3)   The Floodplain Administrator shall maintain a record of all
variance actions, including justification for their issuance or denial, and
report such variances issued in the community’s biennial report submission to
the Federal Emergency Management Agency.
   (G)   Historic structures. Variances may be issued for the repair or
rehabilitation of “historic structures” (see definition) upon determination
that the proposed repair or rehabilitation will not preclude the structure’s
continued designation as a historic structure and the variance is the minimum
necessary to preserve the historic character and design of the structure.
(Ord. 2012-4, passed 4-11-2012)
ADMINISTRATION
§ 152.25 DESIGNATION OF LOCAL ADMINISTRATOR.
   The County Fiscal Court hereby appoints the Director of Planning and
Community Development to administer, implement, and enforce the provisions of
this chapter by granting or denying development permits in accordance with its
provisions, and is herein referred to as the Floodplain Administrator.
(Ord. 2012-4, passed 4-11-2012)
§ 152.26 ESTABLISHMENT OF DEVELOPMENT PERMIT.
   (A)   A development permit shall be obtained before any construction or
other development begins within any special flood hazard area established in §
152.07. Application for a development permit shall be made on forms furnished
by Floodplain Administrator prior to any development activities, and may
include, but not be limited to, the following: plans in duplicate drawn to
scale showing the nature, location, dimensions, and elevations of the area in
question; existing or proposed structures, fill, storage of materials, drainage
facilities; and the location of the foregoing. Endorsement of the Floodplain
Administrator is required before a state floodplain construction permit can be
processed.
   (B)   Specifically, the following information is required.
      (1)   Application stage.
         (a)   Proposed elevation in relation to mean sea level (MSL) of the
proposed lowest floor (including basement) of all structures in Zone A and
elevation of highest adjacent grade;
         (b)   Proposed elevation in relation to mean sea level to which any
nonresidential structure will be flood-proofed;
         (c)   All appropriate certifications from a registered professional
engineer or architect that the nonresidential flood-proofed structure will meet
the flood-proofing criteria in §§
152.41(B) and
152.43(B); and
         (d)   Description of the extent to which any watercourse will be
altered or relocated as a result of proposed development.
      (2)   Construction stage.
         (a)   Upon placement of the lowest floor, and before construction
continues, or flood- proofing by whatever construction means, it shall be the
duty of the permit holder to submit to the Floodplain Administrator and to the
state a certification of the elevation of the lowest floor or flood- proofed
elevation, as built, in relation to mean sea level. In AE, A1-30, AH, and A
Zones where the Community has adopted a regulatory base flood elevation, said
certification shall be prepared by or under the direct supervision of a
registered land surveyor or professional engineer and certified by same.
         (b)   When flood-proofing is utilized for a particular structure, said
certification shall be prepared by or under the direct supervision of a
certified professional engineer or architect. Any continued work undertaken
prior to the submission of the certification shall be at the permit holder’s
risk. The Floodplain Administrator shall review the lowest floor and flood-
proofing elevation survey data submitted. Deficiencies detected by such review
shall be corrected by the permit holder immediately and prior to further
progressive work being permitted to proceed. Failure to submit the survey or
failure to make said corrections required hereby shall be cause to issue a
stop-work order for the project.
(Ord. 2012-4, passed 4-11-2012)
§ 152.27 DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF LOCAL ADMINISTRATOR.
   (A)   The Floodplain Administrator and/or staff is hereby appointed,
authorized, and directed to administer, implement, and enforce the provisions
of this chapter. The Floodplain Administrator is further authorized to render
interpretations of this chapter, which are consistent with its spirit and
purpose by granting or denying development permits in accordance with its
provisions.
   (B)   The duties and responsibilities of the Floodplain Administrator shall
include, but not be limited to, the following.
      (1)   Permit review. Review all development permits to ensure that:
         (a)   Permit requirements of this chapter have been satisfied;
         (b)   All other required state and federal permits have been obtained;
review proposed development to assure that all necessary permits have been
received from those governmental agencies from which approval is required by
federal or state law, including § 404 of the Federal Water Pollution Control
Act Amendments of 1972, 33 U.S.C § 1334;
         (c)   Flood damages will be reduced in the best possible manner; and
         (d)   The proposed development does not adversely affect the carrying
capacity of affected watercourses. For purposes of this chapter, ADVERSELY
AFFECTS means that the cumulative effect of the proposed development when
combined with all other existing and anticipated development will increase the
water surface elevation of the base flood more than one foot at any point.
      (2)   Review and use of any other base flood data. When base flood
elevation data has not been provided in accordance with §
152.07, the Floodplain Administrator shall obtain, review, and reasonably
utilize any base flood elevation and floodway data available from a federal or
state agency, or other source, in order to administer the provisions of §§
152.40 to
152.46. Any such information shall be submitted to the County Fiscal Court for
adoption.
      (3)   Notification of other agencies.
         (a)   Notify adjacent communities, the state’s Division of Water, and
any other federal and/or state agencies with statutory or regulatory authority
prior to any alteration or relocation of the watercourse;
         (b)   Submit evidence of such notification to the Federal Emergency
Management Agency (FEMA); and
         (c)   Assure that the flood carrying capacity within the altered or
relocated portion of said watercourse is maintained.
      (4)   Documentation of floodplain development. Obtain and maintain for
public inspection and make available as needed the following:
         (a)   Certification required by §
152.41(A) (lowest floor elevations) as shown on an accurately completed and
certified elevation certificate. Verify and record the actual elevation (in
relation to mean sea level) of the lowest floor (including basement) of all new
and substantially improved structures, in accordance with §
152.26(B);
         (b)   Certification required by §
152.41(B) (elevation or flood-proofing of nonresidential structures) as shown
on an accurately completed and certified FEMA flood-proofing certificate.
Verify and record the actual elevation (in relation to mean sea level) to which
the new and substantially improved structures have been flood-proofed, in
accordance with §
152.26(B);
         (c)   Certification required by §
152.41(C) (elevated structures);
         (d)   Certification of elevation required by §
152.44(A) (subdivision standards);
         (e)   Certification required by §
152.41(E) (floodway encroachments);
         (f)   Assure that maintenance is provided within the altered or
relocated portion of said watercourse so that the flood-carrying capacity is
maintained;
         (g)   Review certified plans and specifications for compliance; and
         (h)   Take action to remedy violations of this chapter as specified in
§
152.13.
      (5)   Map determinations. Make interpretations where needed, as to the
exact location of the boundaries of the special flood hazard areas, for
example, where there appears to be a conflict between a mapped boundary and
actual field conditions.
         (a)    Where interpretation is needed as to the exact location of
boundaries of the areas of special flood hazard (for example, where there
appears to be a conflict between a mapped boundary and actual field conditions)
the Floodplain Administrator shall make the necessary interpretation. The
person contesting the location of the boundary shall be given a reasonable
opportunity to appeal the interpretation as provided in §
152.14(C);
         (b)   When base flood elevation data and floodway data have not been
provided in accordance with §
152.07, then the Floodplain Administrator shall obtain, review, and reasonable
utilize any base flood elevation and floodway data available from a federal,
state, or other source, in order to administer the provisions of §§
152.40 to
152.46;
         (c)   When flood-proofing is utilized for a particular structure, the
Floodplain Administrator shall obtain certification from a registered
professional engineer or architect, in accordance with §
152.41(B), a flood-proofing certificate;
         (d)   All records pertaining to the provisions of this chapter shall
be maintained in the office of the Floodplain Administrator and shall be open
for public inspection.
      (6)   Right of entry.
         (a)   Whenever necessary to make an inspection to enforce any of the
provisions of this chapter, or whenever the Floodplain Administrator and/or
support staff has reasonable cause to believe that there exists in any
structure or upon any premises any condition or ordinance violation which makes
such building, structure, or premises unsafe, dangerous, or hazardous, the
Floodplain Administrator and/or support staff may enter such building,
structure, or premises at all reasonable times to inspect the same or perform
any duty imposed upon the Floodplain Administrator and/or support staff by this
chapter.
         (b)   If such structure or premises are occupied, the Floodplain
Administrator and/or support staff shall first present proper credentials and
request entry. If such building, structure, or premises are unoccupied, he or
she shall first make a reasonable effort to locate the owner or other persons
having charge or control of such request entry.
         (c)   If entry is refused, the Floodplain Administrator and/or support
staff shall have recourse to every remedy provided by law to secure entry.
         (d)   When the Floodplain Administrator and/or support staff shall
have first obtained a proper inspection warrant or other remedy provided by law
to secure entry, no owner or occupant or any other persons having charge, care,
or control of any building, structure, or premises shall fail or neglect, after
proper request is made as herein provided, to promptly permit entry therein by
the Floodplain Administrator and/or support staff for the purpose of inspection
and examination pursuant to this chapter.
      (7)   Stop work orders. Upon notice from the Floodplain Administrator
and/or support staff, work on any building, structure, or premises that is
being done contrary to the provisions of this chapter shall immediately cease.
Such notice shall be in writing and shall be given to the owner of the
property, or to his or her agent, or to the person performing the work, and
shall state the conditions under which work may be resumed.
      (8)   Revocation of permits.
         (a)   The Floodplain Administrator and/or support staff may revoke a
permit or approval, issued under the provisions of this chapter, in case there
has been any false statement or misrepresentation as to the material fact in
the application or plans on which the permit or approval was based.
         (b)   The Floodplain Administrator and/or support staff may revoke a
permit upon determination that the construction, erection, alteration, repair,
moving, demolition, installation, or replacement of the structure for which the
permit was issued is in violation of, or not in conformity with, the provisions
of this chapter.
      (9)   Liability. Any officer, employee, or member of the Floodplain
Administrator’s staff, charged with the enforcement of this chapter, acting for
the applicable governing authority in the discharge of his or her duties, shall
not thereby render personally liable, and is hereby relieved from all personal
liability, for any damage that may accrue to persons or property as a result of
any act required or permitted in the discharge of his or her duties. Any suit
brought against any officer, employee, or member because of such act performed
by him or her in the enforcement of any provision of this chapter shall be
defended by the Department of Law until the final termination of the
proceedings.
      (10)   Expiration of floodplain construction permit. A floodplain
development permit, and all provisions contained therein, shall expire if the
“start of construction” has not occurred within 180 calendar days from the date
of its issuance.
(Ord. 2012-4, passed 4-11-2012)
FLOOD HAZARD REDUCTION REGULATIONS
§ 152.40 GENERAL CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS.
   In all special flood hazard areas, the following provisions are required:
   (A)   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be adequately
anchored to prevent flotation, collapse, and lateral movement of the structure
resulting from hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads, including the effects of
buoyancy;
   (B)   Manufactured homes shall be anchored to prevent flotation, collapse,
and lateral movement. Methods of anchoring may include, but are not limited to,
use of over-the-top or frame ties to ground anchors. This standard shall be in
addition to and consistent with applicable state requirements for resisting
wind forces;
   (C)   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be constructed
with materials and utility equipment resistant to flood damage;
   (D)   New construction and substantial improvements shall be constructed by
methods and practices that minimize flood damage;
   (E)   Electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing, air condition equipment,
and other service facilities shall be designed and/or located so as to prevent
water from entering or accumulating within the components during conditions of
flooding;
   (F)   Within Zones AH or AO, so that there are adequate drainage paths
around structures on slopes to guide flood waters around and away from proposed
structures;
   (G)   New and replacement water supply systems shall be designed to minimize
or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the system;
   (H)   New and replacement sanitary sewage systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the systems and
discharges from the systems into flood waters;
   (I)   On-site waste disposal systems shall be located and constructed to
avoid impairment to them or contamination from them during flooding;
   (J)   Any alteration, repair, reconstruction, or improvements to a
structure, which is not in compliance with the provisions of this chapter shall
meet the requirements of “new construction” as contained in this chapter; and
   (K)   Any alteration, repair, reconstruction, or improvements to a
structure, which is not in compliance with the provisions of this chapter,
shall be undertaken only if said non-conformity is not furthered, extended, or
replaced.
(Ord. 2012-4, passed 4-11-2012)
§ 152.41 SPECIFIC STANDARDS.
   (A)   Residential construction. In all special flood hazard areas where base
flood elevation data have been provided, as set forth in §
152.07, the following provisions are required.
      (1)   New construction and substantial improvement of any residential
structure (including manufactured home) shall have the lowest floor, including
basement, mechanical equipment, and ductwork, elevated no lower than two feet
above the base flood elevation. Should solid foundation perimeter walls be used
to elevate a structure, openings sufficient to facilitate automatic
equalization of hydrostatic flood forces on walls shall be provided in
accordance with standards of division (C) below.
      (2)   In an AO zone, the lowest floor shall be elevated above the highest
adjacent grade to a height equal to or higher than the depth number specified
in feet on the FIRM, or elevated at least two feet above the highest adjacent
grade if no depth number is specified. In an A zone, where no technical data
has been produced by the Federal Emergency Management Agency, the Floodplain
Administrator will determine the method by which base flood elevations are
determined. Methods include, but are not limited to, detailed hydrologic and
hydraulic analyses, use of existing data available from other sources,
approximate methods, use of historical data, and best supportable and
reasonable judgement in the event no data can be produced. The lowest floor
shall be elevated no lower than two feet above such base flood elevation. Title
401 KAR 4:060, § 5(6)a, states as a part of the technical requirements for a
state floodplain permit: the applicant shall provide cross-sections for
determining floodway boundaries (and thereby base flood elevations) at any
proposed construction site where FEMA maps are not available. All cross-
sections shall be referenced to mean sea level and shall have vertical error
tolerances of no more than plus five-tenths foot. Cross-sections elevations
shall be taken at those points which represent significant breaks in slope and
at points where hydraulic characteristics of the base floodplain change. Each
cross-section shall extend across the entire base floodplain and shall be in
the number and at the locations specified by the cabinet. If necessary to
ensure that significant flood damage will not occur, the cabinet may require
additional cross-sections or specific site elevations which extend beyond those
needed for making routine regulatory floodway boundary calculations.
      (3)    In all other zones, elevated two feet above the base flood
elevation. Upon the completion of the structure, the elevation of the lowest
floor (including basement) shall be certified by a registered professional
engineer or surveyor, and verified by the Community Building Inspection
Department to be properly elevated. Such certification and verification shall
be provided to the Floodplain Administrator.
   (B)   Nonresidential construction. New construction and substantial
improvement of any commercial, industrial, or nonresidential structure
(including manufactured homes used for nonresidential purposes) shall be
elevated to conform with division (A) above or together with attendant utility
and sanitary facilities:
      (1)   Be flood-proofed to an elevation two feet above the level of the
base flood elevation so that the structure is watertight with walls
substantially impermeable to the passage of water;
      (2)   Have structural components capable of resisting hydrostatic and
hydrodynamic loads and effects of buoyancy and debris;
      (3)   A registered professional engineer or architect shall certify that
the standards of this division (B) are satisfied. Such certification along with
the design and operational maintenance plans shall be provided to the
Floodplain Administrator.
      (4)   Manufactured homes shall meet the standards in division (D) below.
      (5)   All new construction and substantial improvement with fully
enclosed areas below the lowest floor (including basements) that are usable
solely for parking of vehicles, building access, or storage, and which are
subject to flooding, shall be constructed of flood resistant materials to an
elevation of two feet above the base flood elevation, and, shall be designed to
automatically equalize hydrostatic flood forces on exterior walls by allowing
for the entry and exit of floodwater. Openings for meeting this requirement
must meet or exceed the standards of division (C) below.
   (C)   Elevated structures. New construction and substantial improvements of
elevated structures on columns, posts, or pilings that include fully enclosed
areas formed by foundation and other exterior walls below the lowest floor
shall be designed to preclude finished living space and designed to allow for
the entry and exit of floodwaters to automatically equalize hydrostatic flood
forces on exterior walls.
      (1)   Openings for complying with this requirement must either be
certified by a professional engineer or architect or meet the following minimum
criteria:
         (a)   Provide a minimum of two openings having a total net area of not
less than one square inch for every square foot of enclosed area subject to
flooding;
         (b)   The bottom of all openings shall be no higher than one foot
above foundation interior grade (which must be equal to in elevation or higher
than the exterior foundation grade); and
         (c)   Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, valves, or other
coverings or devices provided they permit the automatic flow of floodwaters in
both directions.
      (2)   Access to the enclosed area shall be the minimum necessary to allow
for parking of vehicles (garage door), limited storage of maintenance equipment
used in connection with the premises (standard exterior door), or entry to the
living area (stairway or elevator); and
      (3)   The interior portion of such enclosed areas shall not be finished
or partitioned into separate rooms.
    (D)   Standards for manufactured homes and recreational vehicles.
      (1)   All new and substantially improved manufactured homes placed on
sites located within A, A1-30, AO, AH, and AE on the community’s Flood
Insurance Rate Map (FIRM) must meet all the requirements for new construction,
including elevation and anchoring. Locations include:
         (a)   On individual lots or parcels;
         (b)   In expansions to existing manufactured home parks or
subdivisions;
         (c)   In new manufactured home parks or subdivisions;
         (d)   In substantially improved manufactured home parks or
subdivisions;
         (e)   Outside of a manufactured home park or subdivision; and
         (f)   In an existing manufactured home park or subdivision on a site
upon which a manufactured home has incurred “substantial damage” as the result
of a flood.
      (2)   All such manufactured homes must be:
         (a)   Elevated on a permanent foundation;
         (b)   Have its lowest floor elevated no lower than two feet above the
level of the base flood elevation; and
         (c)   Be securely anchored to an adequately anchored foundation system
to resist flotation, collapse, and lateral movement.
      (3)   Except manufactured homes that have incurred substantial damage as
a result of a flood, all manufactured homes placed or substantially improved in
an existing manufactured home park or subdivision must be elevated so that the
manufactured home is securely anchored to an adequately anchored foundation
system to resist flotation, collapse, and lateral movement, so that either the:
         (a)   The lowest floor of the manufactured home is elevated no lower
than two feet above the base flood elevation; or
         (b)   The manufactured home chassis is supported by reinforced piers
or other foundation elements of at least an equivalent strength, of no less
than 36 inches in height above the highest adjacent grade.
      (4)   (a)   All recreational vehicles placed on sites located within A,
A1-30, AO, AH, and AE on the community’s Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM) must
either:
            1.   Be on the site for fewer than 180 consecutive days;
            2.   Be fully licensed and ready for highway use; or
            3.   Meet the permit requirements for new construction of this
chapter, including anchoring and elevation requirements for “manufactured
homes”.
         (b)   A recreational vehicle is ready for highway use if it is
licensed and insured in accordance with the state’s motor vehicle regulations,
is on its wheels or jacking system, is attached to the site only by quick
disconnect type utilities and security devices, and has no permanently attached
additions.
   (E)   Floodways. Located within areas of special flood hazard established in
§
152.07 are areas designated as floodways. Since the floodway is an extremely
hazardous area due to the velocity of flood waters which carry debris,
potential projectiles, and has erosion potential, the following provisions
shall apply:
      (1)   Prohibit encroachments, including fill, new construction,
substantial improvements, and other developments unless certification (with
supporting technical data) by a registered professional engineer is provided
demonstrating that encroachments shall not result in any increase in the base
flood elevation levels during occurrence of base flood discharge; and
      (2)   If this division (E) is satisfied, all new construction and
substantial improvements and other proposed new development shall comply with
all applicable flood hazard reduction provisions of §§
152.40 to
152.46.
(Ord. 2012-4, passed 4-11-2012)
§ 152.42 STANDARDS FOR STEAMS WITHOUT ESTABLISHED BASE FLOOD ELEVATION
(UNNUMBERED A ZONES) AND/OR FLOODWAYS.
   Located within the special flood hazard areas established in §
152.07, where streams exist but where no base flood data has been provided or
where base flood data has been provided without floodways, the following
provisions apply.
   (A)   No encroachments, including fill material or structures shall be
located within special flood hazard areas, unless certification by a registered
professional engineer is provided demonstrating that the cumulative effect of
the proposed development, when combined with all other existing and anticipated
development will not increase the water surface elevation of the base flood
more than one foot at any point within the community. The engineering
certification should be supported by technical data that conforms to standard
hydraulic engineering principles.
   (B)   New construction and substantial improvements of structures shall be
elevated or flood-proofed to elevations established in accordance with §
152.07.
(Ord. 2012-4, passed 4-11-2012)
§ 152.43 STANDARDS FOR SHALLOW FLOODING AREAS.
   (A)   Located within the special flood hazard areas established in §
152.07 are areas designated as shallow flooding areas.
   (B)   These areas have flood hazards associated with base flood depths of
one to three feet where a clearly defined channel does not exist and the water
path of flooding is unpredictable and indeterminate; therefore, the following
provisions apply.
      (1)   All new construction and substantial improvements of residential
structures shall have the lowest floor, including basement, elevated to or
above either the base flood elevation or in Zone AO the flood depth specified
on the Flood Insurance Rate Map above the highest adjacent grade. In Zone AO,
if no flood depth is specified, the lowest floor, including basement, shall be
elevated no less than two feet above the highest adjacent grade; and
      (2)   All new construction and substantial improvements of nonresidential
structures shall:
         (a)   Have the lowest floor, including basement, elevated to or above
either the base flood elevation or in Zone AO the flood depth specified on the
Flood Insurance Rate Map, above the highest adjacent grade. In Zone AO, if no
flood depth is specified, the lowest floor, including basement, shall be
elevated no less than two feet above the highest adjacent grade.
         (b)   Together with attendant utility and sanitary facilities be
completely flood-proofed either to the base flood elevation or above or, in
Zone AO, to or above the specified flood depth plus a minimum of one foot so
that any space below that level is watertight with walls substantially
impermeable to the passage of water and with structural components having the
capability of resisting hydrostatic and hydrodynamic loads and effects of
buoyancy. Certification is required as stated in §
152.41(B).
(Ord. 2012-4, passed 4-11-2012)
§ 152.44 STANDARDS FOR SUBDIVISION PROPOSALS.
   (A)   All subdivision proposals shall identify the flood hazard area and the
elevation of the base flood and be consistent with the need to minimize flood
damage.
   (B)   All subdivision proposals shall have public utilities and facilities
such as sewer, gas, electrical, and water systems located and constructed to
minimize flood damage.
   (C)   All subdivision proposals shall have adequate drainage provided to
reduce exposure to flood hazards.
   (D)   In areas where base flood elevation and floodway data is not
available, base flood elevation and floodway data for subdivision proposals and
other proposed development (including manufactured home parks and subdivisions)
greater than 50 lots or five acres, whichever is the lesser, shall be provided.
   (E)   All subdivision plans will include the elevation of proposed structure
(s) and lowest adjacent grade. If the site is filled above the base flood
elevation, the lowest floor and lowest adjacent grade elevations shall be
certified by a registered professional engineer or surveyor and provided to the
Floodplain Administrator.
(Ord. 2012-4, passed 4-11-2012)
§ 152.45 STANDARDS FOR ACCESSORY STRUCTURES IN ALL ZONES BEGINNING WITH THE
LETTER “A”.
   For all accessory structures in special flood hazard areas designated “A”,
the following provisions shall apply:
   (A)   Must be non-habitable;
   (B)   Must be anchored to resist floatation and lateral movement;
   (C)   Must be provided with flood openings in accordance with the standards
of §
152.41(C);
   (D)   Must be built of flood resistant materials to two feet above the base
flood elevation;
   (E)   Must elevate utilities two feet above the base flood elevation;
   (F)   Can only be used for storage or parking; and
   (G)   Must not be modified for a different use after permitting.
(Ord. 2012-4, passed 4-11-2012)
§ 152.46 CRITICAL FACILITIES.
   Construction of new critical facilities shall be, to the extent possible,
located outside the limits of the SFHA (100-year floodplain). Construction of
new critical facilities shall not be permissible within the floodway; however,
they may be permissible within the SFHA if no feasible alternative site is
available. Critical facilities constructed within the SFHA shall have the
lowest floor elevated one foot or more above the base flood elevation at the
site. Flood-proofing and sealing measures must be taken to ensure that toxic
substances will not be displaced by or released into floodwaters. Access routes
elevated to or above the level of the base flood elevation shall be provided to
all critical facilities to the extent possible.
(Ord. 2012-4, passed 4-11-2012)
§ 152.99 PENALTY.
   Violation of the provisions of this chapter or failure to comply with any of
its requirements, including violation of conditions and safeguards established
in connection with granting of a variance or special exceptions, shall
constitute a misdemeanor civil offense. Any person who violates this chapter or
fails to comply with any of its requirements shall, upon conviction thereof, be
fined no less than $100 or imprisoned for not more than 365 days, or both, and
in addition, shall pay all costs and expenses involved in the case. Each day
such violation continues shall be considered a separate offense. Nothing herein
contained shall prevent the Floodplain Administrator from taking such other
lawful action as is necessary to prevent or remedy any violation.
(Ord. 2012-4, passed 4-11-2012)
CHAPTER 153: DEVELOPMENT AND SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS
Section
Purpose, Authority, and Jurisdiction
   
153.001   Purpose
   
153.002   Short title
   
153.003   Authority and administrative agency
   
153.004   Area of jurisdiction
   
153.005   Amendments
   
153.006   Fee schedule
Definitions
   
153.020   Definitions
Development Plan Procedures
   
153.035   Purpose
   
153.036   Pre-application conference procedures
   
153.037   General development plan procedures
   
153.038   Preliminary development plan procedures
   
153.039   Final development plan procedures
   
153.040   Amendments to development plans approved by the Planning Commission
Content and Format of Development Plans
   
153.055   Purpose
   
153.056   Basic requirements for all development plans
   
153.057   Preliminary development plan materials
   
153.058   Final development plan materials
Major and Minor Classes of Subdivision Established for Processing Purposes
   
153.075   Purpose
   
153.076   Processing classes for subdivisions
Subdivision Plat Procedures, Format and Content
   
153.090   Purpose
   
153.091   Procedures for submittal and review of subdivisions plats
   
153.092   Format for subdivision plats
   
153.093   Content required for subdivision plats
Design Standards
   
153.105   Purpose and suitability of land
   
153.106   Street design standards
   
153.107   Lot design standards
   
153.108   Easement design standards
   
153.109   Community facilities design standards
   
153.110   Public sites and open space standards
   
153.111   Low impact development design standards
Physical Improvements
   
153.125   Purpose
   
153.126   Completion of improvements
   
153.127   Improvements classification of subdivisions
   
153.128   General description of required improvements
   
153.129   Specifications for street and drainage construction
   
153.130   Storm water drainage
   
153.131   Plans required for the control of erosion and sedimentation
General Provisions
   
153.145   Purpose
   
153.146   Variances
   
153.147   Amendments
   
153.148   Violations
Addressing Properties
   
153.160   Numbering requirement
   
153.161   Numbering regulations
   
153.162   Renumbering addresses
   
153.163   Enforcement
 
   
153.999   Penalty
   
Appendix A: Examples
   
Appendix B: Forms
   
Appendix C: Pavement designs
   
Appendix D: Geodetic control information
   
Appendix E: Erosion and sediment control standard drawings
   
Appendix F: Landscaping and tree planting standards
PURPOSE, AUTHORITY, AND JURISDICTION
§ 153.001 PURPOSE.
   (A)   Approval of a development plan and subdivision of property are the
first steps in the process of community development. Once plans have been
approved and land has been divided into lots, streets, and open spaces, a
pattern has been established that determines how well community needs for
residence, business and industry will be met. It also determines to a great
extent, how well the community will be able to meet the demand for home sites,
and how efficiently and economically it will be able to provide the many
required services.
   (B)   After plans have been approved, land has been subdivided, and lots
recorded, it is very difficult and costly to correct defects and deficiencies
in the development layout and in the facilities provided. In addition, a
developed area sooner or later becomes a public responsibility since roads and
streets must be maintained and public services must be provided. The welfare of
the entire community is affected in many important aspects. The guidance of
land development in harmony with community objectives is a matter of serious
public concern. It is in the interest of the public, the developer, and the
future property owners that development is designed and constructed in
accordance with sound rules and proper standards. These development and
subdivision regulations are designed to provide for the harmonious development
of the community by ensuring the coordinated layout of streets and utilities,
convenient open space for recreation, access for emergency equipment, adequate
water, drainage, sewer facilities, and reduction of potential flood damage.
(Prior Code, § 74.100) (Ord. passed 3- -1995; Ord. passed 10- -2005; Ord. 2018-
03, passed 2-14-2018; Ord. passed 1- -2020)
§ 153.002 SHORT TITLE.
   The full title of these subdivision regulations shall be the “Development
and Subdivision Regulations of the Winchester/Clark County Planning Commission
of Winchester and Clark County, Kentucky”. As a short title, these regulations
shall be known and may be cited as the “development and subdivision
regulations”.
(Prior Code, § 74.110) (Ord. passed 3- -1995; Ord. passed 10- -2005; Ord. 2018-
03, passed 2-14-2018; Ord. passed 1- -2020)
§ 153.003 AUTHORITY AND ADMINISTRATIVE AGENCY.
   These regulations were prepared and approved by the Winchester/Clark County
Planning Commission pursuant to the authority, KRS Chapter 100, and shall be
administered by the Winchester/Clark County Planning Commission upon their
adoption.
(Prior Code, § 74.120) (Ord. passed 3- -1995; Ord. passed 10- -2005; Ord. 2018-
03, passed 2-14-2018; Ord. passed 1- -2020)
§ 153.004 AREA OF JURISDICTION.
   The Winchester/Clark County Planning Commission shall have jurisdiction and
control over the development and subdivision of all land in the City of
Winchester, Kentucky, and the County of Clark, Kentucky, which area also shall
be designated the planning area of said Planning Commission.
(Prior Code, § 74.130) (Ord. passed 3- -1995; Ord. passed 10- -2005; Ord. 2018-
03, passed 2-14-2018; Ord. passed 1- -2020)
§ 153.005 AMENDMENTS.
   The Planning Commission may amend or modify these regulations from time to
time by holding a public hearing on the proposed changes after giving notice as
required by KRS Chapter 424.
(Prior Code, § 74.140) (Ord. passed 3- -1995; Ord. passed 10- -2005; Ord. 2018-
03, passed 2-14-2018; Ord. passed 1- -2020)
§ 153.006 FEE SCHEDULE.
   The Planning Commission shall adopt a fee schedule to cover the cost of
reviewing development plans and plats, inspections, and other costs to the
Planning Commission related to the development and subdivision of land.
(Ord. passed 3- -1995; Ord. passed 10- -2005; Ord. 2018-03, passed 2-14-2018;
Ord. passed 1- -2020)
DEFINITIONS
§ 153.020 DEFINITIONS.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to define certain words and phrases
commonly used in development and subdivision of land. The words and terms
expressed in the present tense include the future tense. The words and phrases
expressed singular in number include the plural number. The word MAY is
permissive, while SHALL and WILL are mandatory.
(Prior Code, § 74.200)
   AGENCIES, GOVERNMENTAL AND PRIVATE. Governmental and private agencies
referred to herein mean those agencies having regulations relating to or having
an effect upon subdivision and development of land. These AGENCIES include, but
not exclusively, Winchester/Clark County Planning Commission, City of
Winchester, Clark County Fiscal Court, Winchester Municipal Utilities, and
similar agencies.
   ARCHITECT, LANDSCAPE. A person licensed by the State Board of Examiners and
Registration of Landscape Architects of Kentucky to practice landscape
architecture as defined by KRS 323A.010 in the Commonwealth of Kentucky.
   BUILDING. Any human-made physical structure, or part thereof, affixed to the
land and intended for a person’s work, residence, or other use.
   BUILDING SETBACK LINE. A line within the boundaries of a lot which
determines the minimum distance the primary structure may be located from the
property line.
   CITY. City means City of Winchester, Kentucky.
   CITY ENGINEER. Licensed engineer appointed by or employed by the City of
Winchester.
   CLARK COUNTY CONSERVATION DISTRICT. The body of local government created by
KRS Chapter 262.
   COUNTY.   The County of Clark, Kentucky.
   DEVELOPER.   An individual, partnership, corporation, or other legal entity
or agent thereof, which undertakes the activities covered by these regulations.
In as much as the subdivision plan drawings are merely a necessary means to the
end of assuring satisfactory development, the term DEVELOPER includes
“subdivider”, “owner”, “builder”, and the like, even though the persons and
their precise interests may vary at different project stages.
   DEVELOPMENT PLAN. The written and graphic material for the provision of a
development, including any or all of the following: location and bulk of
buildings and other structures, intensity of use, density of development,
streets, lots, parking facilities, signs, drainage of surface water, access
points, screening or buffering, utilities, existing human-made and natural
conditions, and all other conditions agreed to by the applicant.
   ENGINEER. Any person licensed to practice as an engineer in the Commonwealth
of Kentucky.
   GRADE. The inclination, with the horizontal of a road, unimproved land, and
the like, which is generally expressed by stating the vertical rise or fall as
a percentage of the horizontal distance.
   GREEN INFRASTRUCTURE. Infrastructure and storm water design approaches and
technologies that mimic the natural hydrologic cycle by a network of natural
ecosystem processes of rainfall infiltration, evapotranspiration and reuse with
an emphasis on interconnectivity to support long-term sustainability.
   IMPLEMENTATION DEVICES.   The zoning ordinance, development and subdivision
regulations of Winchester/Clark County, FEMA floodplain maps, office maps, and
the like, adopted or established by the Planning Commission and/or governmental
units of Winchester and Clark County to implement the Comprehensive Plan as set
forth in KRS Chapter 100.
   IMPROVEMENTS. Physical changes made to raw land, and structures placed on or
under the land surface, in order to make the land more usable for human
activities. Typical IMPROVEMENTS in these regulations would be grading, street
pavement, curbs, gutters, drainage ditches, storm and sanitary sewers, utility
lines of all types, street name signs, property number signs, and the like.
   INFRASTRUCTURE. The large scale public systems, services, and facilities of
a community that are necessary for economic activity, including power and water
supplies, public transportation, telecommunications, drainage and sewer, roads,
and schools.
   JURISDICTION, AGENCY WITH. Agencies having their own regulations relating to
certain phases of development and subdivision of land. These include, but are
not limited to, City of Winchester, Clark County Fiscal Court, Winchester
Municipal Utilities, Clark County Health Department, Kentucky Transportation
Cabinet, Federal Emergency Management Agency, and the Environmental Protection
Agency.
   LAND SURVEYOR. Any person currently licensed as a land surveyor by the
Commonwealth of Kentucky.
   LOT. A portion of a subdivision plat or the basic unit thereof, intended for
transfer of ownership or for development.
   LOT AREA. The amount of land contained within the designated property lines
of a lot, which may include utility easements, but shall not include street
right-of-way.
   LOT, CORNER. A lot abutting upon two or more streets at a street
intersection, or abutting upon two adjoining and deflected lines of the same
street and thereby forming an interior angle of less than 135 degrees. The
depth of a lot is the maximum horizontal distance between the front and rear
property lines of a lot.
   LOT, DOUBLE FRONTAGE. Any lot having two or more of its non-adjoining
property lines abutting upon separate streets.
   LOT, REVERSE FRONTAGE. A double frontage lot having its vehicular access
point limited to the street which is not faced by the building situated
thereon.
   LOT WIDTH. The width of a lot is the distance measured between the two side
property lines of a lot at the front yard building setback line.
   LOW IMPACT DEVELOPMENT. A storm water management planning approach for
commercial and residential development that emphasizes conservation and use of
on-site natural features to protect water quality. This approach implements
engineered small scale hydrologic controls to replicate the pre-development
hydrologic regime of a watershed through infiltrating, filtering, storing,
evaporating, and detaining runoff close to its source.
   PAVED STREET/ROAD. A street or road that is constructed on compacted subsoil
with a minimum of eight inches of dense grade aggregate (DGA), a minimum of two
and one-half inches of asphalt base, and a minimum of one and one-half inches
of asphalt surface.
   PLANNER, COMMUNITY. Any person who shall be either a member or associate
member in good standing of the American Planning Association.
   PLAN, COMPREHENSIVE. The plan, or parts thereof, adopted by the Winchester/
Clark Planning Commission to implement the future physical development of the
City of Winchester and the County of Clark, Kentucky in regard to
transportation, land use, community facilities, utilities and other physical
needs, as defined in KRS 100.187.
   PLANNING COMMISSION. The Winchester/Clark County Planning Commission.
   ROADWAY. That portion within the street right-of-way consisting of the
street pavement, curb and gutter (or open ditches), which is accordingly used
as a channel for vehicular movement and water drainage.
   SECRETARY. That person designated or appointed as such by the Planning
Commission.
   SOIL SURVEY. The report developed by USDA - SCS in cooperation with UK
Experiment Station and the Clark County Conservation District (Series 1961, No.
11, issued October 1964).
   STORMWATER MANUAL. A document to provide standards for the design and
construction of stormwater infrastructure as well as describe the approval
process for stormwater infrastructure. This manual is adopted by the Planning
Commission by reference. When the manual is cited by these development and
subdivision regulations, the current edition or latest revision shall be
referenced.
   STREET. In its general sense herein, is an area of land designated for
public use within defined limits in order to provide a means for vehicular and
pedestrian movement. The right-of-way limits of any street shall include the
street pavement, curb and gutter (or open ditches), sidewalks, and may provide
space for the location of utilities. The right-of-way limits of any street
shall be coincident to the property line of the adjacent or the abutting lot.
STREETS are classified specifically herein as follows:
      (1)   Expressways. Expressways rank first in the classification of
streets and are used only for vehicular movement without access to abutting
properties. Interchange of traffic between expressways and other streets (only
arterial streets when possible) is accomplished by grade separated interchange
with merging deceleration and acceleration lanes.
      (2)   Arterials. Arterial streets rank second in the classification of
streets, and are used primarily for vehicular movement and are used secondarily
for vehicular access to abutting properties. Access to abutting properties, if
permitted, should be provided by means of a marginal access street in order to
serve several abutting properties, rather than allowing each abutting property
to have its own individual access thereto. Arterial streets are the link
between expressways and collector streets, and generally rank next to
expressways in traffic volume, speed limit control and right-of-way limits.
      (3)   Collector streets. Collector streets rank third in the
classification of streets and are principally used for vehicular movement;
however, access to abutting properties are planned and controlled so that
minimum disturbance is made to the traffic flow on said collector street.
Collectors are the link between arterial and minor streets, and generally rank
next to minor streets in right-of-way widths, and speed control.
      (4)   Minors. Minor streets rank fourth in the classification of streets
and are used primarily for providing access to abutting properties. Vehicular
movement on minor streets should have an origin or destination in the immediate
vicinity, whereas all types of through traffic should be eliminated. Minor
streets are the primary link between generator points (homes, offices, stores,
and the like) and collector streets. Minor streets require the least amount of
vehicular movement and may be further classified into five categories as
follows:
         (a)   Continuing streets have two open ends; each end generally
connects with different streets. One or more other streets may intersect such a
street between its two open ends, and property abuts both sides of such a
street.
         (b)   Marginal access streets generally have two or more access points
to the major street system by connecting to a street of higher classification.
Marginal access streets are sometimes called access or frontage roads.
         (c)   Loop streets have two open ends each and generally connect with
the same street. No other streets intersect between the two ends and property
abuts on both sides of the street.
         (d)   Cul-de-sacs have only one open end that provides access to
another street and a closed end that provides a turn-around circle for
vehicular movement. No streets of this type shall dead-end at the closed end,
unless future plans provide for its continuation for an open end or a turn-
around circle. Temporary turn-around circles may be required when deemed
necessary by the Planning Commission.
         (e)   Alleys generally have two open ends with each end connecting to
different streets. Alleys generally provide service and access to the rear of
abutting properties on both sides of the alley.
   SUBDIVISION. The division of land into two or more parcels for the purpose
of sale, use or building development, whether immediate or future, and includes
re-subdivision of existing subdivided land. For platting purposes, subdivisions
are classified herein under minor and major subdivisions. For physical
improvement purposes, major subdivisions are further classified into special
classes in §§ 153.115 through 153.121 of this chapter.
   SUBDIVISION PLAT. A document, drawn to scale, that maps the location and
boundaries of individual parcels of property along with the streets, alleys,
easements, and rights of use over the land. A subdivision plat must be recorded
at the county courthouse to become a legal document. All major subdivision
plats must be approved as final development plans by the Planning Commission
prior to being recorded.
(Prior Code, § 74.210)
(Ord. passed 3- -1995; Ord. passed 10- -2005; Ord. 2018-03, passed 2-14-2018;
Ord. passed 1- -2020)
DEVELOPMENT PLAN PROCEDURES
§ 153.035 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to establish the procedures which shall be
followed by the developer and the Planning Commission in preparing, reviewing
and approving all development plans. The overall purpose of this subchapter is
to foster and encourage better physical design in the transformation of open
land to developed areas. Developers must work closely with the Planning
Commission, its staff, and with qualified planning and design professionals to
arrive at the most efficient and pleasing physical design which resolves
potential land use, circulation, and other design issues related to
development.
(Ord. passed 3- -1995; Ord. passed 10- -2005; Ord. 2018-03, passed 2-14-2018;
Ord. passed 1- -2020)
§ 153.036 PRE-APPLICATION CONFERENCE PROCEDURES.
   The purpose of the pre-application conference is to afford the developer an
opportunity to obtain advice and assistance from the Planning Commission staff
before making formal application for development plan approval. The developer
should consult with potentially interested parties, such as attorneys,
engineers, land surveyors, landscape architects, lenders and community
planners, in an effort to reach firm conclusions as to the type of market
demand to be served, the suitability of the location of the proposed
development, and the general arrangement of streets, lots and other features
proposed. For Planning Commission purposes, there are only two steps involved
at the pre-application conference.
   (A)   Development plan. The developer should prepare a development plan
indicating the boundaries of the tract, streets, lot patterns and other
physical information relating to the proposed development.
   (B)   Office visit. The developer should visit the Planning and Community
Development Office to discuss the development plan with the staff. This
informal discussion shall not constitute a formal application and will be
considered confidential. The developer should also consult with utility
companies and other local agencies at this stage.
(Ord. passed 3- -1995; Ord. passed 10- -2005; Ord. 2018-03, passed 2-14-2018;
Ord. passed 1- -2020)
§ 153.037 GENERAL DEVELOPMENT PLAN PROCEDURES.
   The following shall be the procedures for Planning Commission consideration
of any development plan (preliminary and final).
   (A)   Formal application and submission. To secure formal action on the
development plan, the developer shall submit a complete application to the
Planning and Community Development Office by the monthly deadline for Planning
Commission public hearings. The deadline is the first Tuesday of each month to
be placed on the agenda for the first Tuesday of the following month. Holidays
and elections may alter the day; check with staff for specific dates.
   (B)   Design plans. The developer shall have an engineer, land surveyor or
landscape architect licensed to practice in the Commonwealth of Kentucky
prepare the development plan in conformance with the format, design, and
improvement requirements of §§
153.090 through
153.131 of this chapter. All engineering data shall be supplied by a licensed
engineer. Utility companies and other concerned city and county agencies should
be consulted before these are prepared. The complete application shall contain
the following at a minimum:
      (1)   Development plan: 19 copies including four full sets and 15 sets
containing the site plan and grading plan;
      (2)   Drainage report: two complete sets including computations; and
      (3)   Plans for stormwater, erosion and sediment control: four complete
sets.
   (C)   Technical Review Committee. Copies of the development plan shall be
distributed by staff to the Technical Review Committee. The Technical Review
Committee shall review and make its own recommendation to the Planning
Commission for approval, conditional approval (with conditions noted),
postponement, or disapproval. It is recommended that the developer or a
representative attend the Technical Review Committee meeting to discuss
specific aspects of the plan being considered. A copy of the Technical Review
Committee’s recommendations shall be given to the developer in order that the
necessary changes can be made to the development plan. Three copies of the
revised development plan shall be submitted to the staff for review in advance
of the Planning Commission meeting. Technical Review Committee meetings are
held on the second Tuesday of each month. Holidays and elections may alter the
day; check with staff for specific dates.
(Ord. passed 3- -1995; Ord. passed 10- -2005; Ord. 2018-03, passed 2-14-2018;
Ord. passed 1- -2020)
§ 153.038 PRELIMINARY DEVELOPMENT PLAN PROCEDURES.
   Development plans may receive their first official consideration by the
Planning Commission as “preliminary” development plans. Preliminary development
plans are less detailed than final development plans. The developer may choose
this option to gain approval for the concept prior to finalizing the details
required to begin construction. The Planning Commission may take any of the
following actions after reviewing a preliminary development plan.
   (A)   Approval means a grading permit may be issued by the Engineering
Department if all stormwater documentation has also been approved. No developer
shall proceed with any construction work on the proposed development, including
grading, before obtaining approval from the Planning Commission and a grading
permit from the Engineering Department. Lots shall not be sold at this time.
Sale of lots shall occur only after a final development plan has been approved
by the Planning Commission and a subdivision plat has been recorded at the
county courthouse.
   (B)   Conditional approval means the developer may not proceed as outlined
in division (A) above until the specified conditions have been met. A revised
plan may be required but no completely new application is required.
   (C)   Postponement means action is delayed for definite reasons which shall
be noted by the Planning Commission. Certain specified changes may have to be
made to the preliminary development plan but no new application is required.
   (D)   Disapproval means denial of the preliminary development plan. For
further action, the developer must rework the preliminary development plan. The
reworked preliminary development plan must be re-submitted as a completely new
plan.
(Ord. passed 3- -1995; Ord. passed 10- -2005; Ord. 2018-03, passed 2-14-2018;
Ord. passed 1- -2020)
§ 153.039 FINAL DEVELOPMENT PLAN PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Development plans shall receive their last review by the Planning
Commission as “final” development plans. The developer may choose to bypass the
preliminary development plan review by initially submitting an application that
meets the more stringent requirements of a final development plan.
   (B)   No developer shall sell or agree to sell any lot until after a final
development plan has been approved by the Planning Commission and, where
required, a subdivision plat has been recorded at the County Courthouse. The
Planning Commission may take any of the following actions after reviewing a
final development plan:
      (1)   Approval means the developer may apply for a grading permit,
building permit, and/or begin the process of recording a subdivision plat.
Planning Commission approval shall not be deemed to constitute or effect an
acceptance of the dedication of any street or other proposed space offered for
dedication since such acceptance is the prerogative of the city and county
legislative bodies;
      (2)   Conditional approval means the developer may not proceed as
outlined in subsection (1) above until the specified conditions have been met.
A revised plan may be required but no completely new application is required;
      (3)   Postponement means that the Planning Commission has deferred action
until some future Planning Commission meeting in order that clarifications can
be made in regard to the final development plan. The Planning Commission may
require specific changes to the development plan, but no new application is
required; and
      (4)   Disapproval means denial of the final development plan. The
developer must re-work the final development plan to conform to Planning
Commission requirements and re-submit it as a completely new final development
plan.
(Ord. passed 3- -1995; Ord. passed 10- -2005; Ord. 2018-03, passed 2-14-2018;
Ord. passed 1- -2020)
§ 153.040 AMENDMENTS TO DEVELOPMENT PLANS APPROVED BY THE PLANNING COMMISSION.
   (A)   Amendments to approved development plans can be made only by official
Planning Commission action. Content, format, and procedures shall be the same
as those for the original submission. Amendments which fully meet the
requirements set forth hereinafter for minor amendments may be approved by the
Planning Commission staff without further action by the Planning Commission.
   (B)   Minor amendments are intended to expedite approval in those situations
where amendments are of minor significance and generally relate to the shifting
of previously approved spaces. Such amendments shall not:
      (1)   Decrease the overall land area in yards, or other open spaces;
      (2)   Increase building footprint or height; or increase the number of
dwelling units;
      (3)   Increase the number or size of signs; and
      (4)   Change the location of any street and shall not increase the
number, or change the location of, street access points; except that shifts in
the approved access location not exceeding 25 feet may be approved as a minor
amendment where the access point is not located on an arterial street.
(Ord. passed 3- -1995; Ord. passed 10- -2005; Ord. 2018-03, passed 2-14-2018;
Ord. passed 1- -2020)
CONTENT AND FORMAT OF DEVELOPMENT PLANS
§ 153.055 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to describe the content and format of
development plan materials and the information which must be placed thereon.
Conformance to these requirements provides maximum capability for thorough
review and expedient processing. All development plans shall adhere to these
specifications unless the Planning Commission grants permission for
modifications due to unusual and special circumstances. Development plans which
are flagrantly or repeatedly lacking specified data shall be returned to the
developer immediately after review by the staff without waiting for review by
the Technical Review Committee or the Planning Commission.
(Ord. passed 3- -1995; Ord. passed 10- -2005; Ord. 2018-03, passed 2-14-2018;
Ord. passed 1- -2020)
§ 153.046 BASIC INFORMATION REQUIREMENTS FOR ALL DEVELOPMENT PLANS.
   (A)   Application form: this form may be obtained from the Planning and
Community Development office or from the website www.winchesterky.com. One copy
shall be filled out completely and accurately, and submitted as part of the
development plan materials.
   (B)   Stormwater pollution protection plan: four copies must accompany the
development plan if the applicant wishes to apply for a grading permit
following Planning Commission approval.
   (C)   Paper prints of development plan: 19 sets of prints (four complete
sets and 15 partial sets containing the site plan and grading plan) shall be
submitted, and the sheet size shall be 24" x 36" unless the staff approves
another size due to unusual or special circumstances. If necessary, more than
one sheet may be used as long as a key is provided that relates each sheet to
the entire planned area. The development plan should include, at a minimum, the
following information:
      (1)   Title block: the title should be placed on the bottom right-hand
corner of the plan and shall contain the following information:
         (a)   Development name: the proposed name of the development, which
shall not duplicate nor closely approximate (phonetically or in spelling) the
name of any other development in the county. The plan shall be titled
“Development Plan of”;
         (b)   Property identification: the record name and mailing address of
the property being developed;
         (c)   Identification: the name, mailing address, and phone number of
the property owner, developer, engineer, and anyone else directly involved in
the development; and
         (d)   Date of preparation, prepared by, and date of revisions.
      (2)   Vicinity map showing the location of the proposed development (in
relation to the surrounding area) shall be placed on the sheet in the upper,
right-hand corner. The vicinity map shall be drawn at a scale large enough to
show the proposed development’s relationship to existing and proposed community
features such as shopping areas and industrial areas. Typically one inch should
not exceed 2,000 feet;
      (3)   Legend;
      (4)   The written scale between (1" = 10' and 1" = 50');
      (5)   North arrow;
      (6)   Design engineer’s certification should be signed, dated, stamped
and read as follows: “This development plan was prepared by me or under my
direction and has been designed to meet the requirements of the Winchester/
Clark County Zoning Ordinance and this chapter;”
      (7)   Owner’s certification shall be signed, dated, and witnessed as
follows: “I (we) do hereby certify that I am (we are) the only owner(s) of
record of the property platted hereon, said property being the same (or a
portion of) property conveyed to me (us) by          , dated           , and
recorded in Deed        Book       , Page        , in the Clark County Clerk’s
Office; and I (we) do hereby adopt this as my (our) development plan for this
property;”
      (8)   Planning Commission certification to be signed and dated by the
Planning Commission secretary if the development plan is approved: “I do hereby
certify that this development plan was approved by the Planning Commission;”
      (9)    Existing conditions on and adjacent to the tract: the following
information detailing existing conditions shall be shown (property and other
lines off the tract should be shown as dashed lines):
         (a)   The boundary lines of the tract should be shown by a special
line style and weight (such as, heavy solid line) which will provide quick and
easy distinction between the developer’s property and any adjacent property;
         (b)   Existing easements: location, width, and purpose of all
easements;
         (c)   Names of all adjacent property owners;
         (d)   All buildings, parking lots, sidewalks, access points from
public right-of-ways, fences and the like;
         (e)   Zoning classification of site and all adjacent properties;
         (f)   Streets: location, name, pavement width, and right-of-way width;
         (g)   Utilities: the location of sanitary and storm sewers; water
mains, gas lines, fire hydrants, electric lines, communication towers fiber
optic lines;
         (h)   Other conditions: water courses, marshes, rock outcrops, wooded
areas, isolated trees of six inch caliper or greater, houses, barns, and other
significant features. Indicate which will be retained and which removed; and
         (i)   FEMA flood plain areas and base flood elevations on and adjacent
to the tract. Flood map number shall be referenced.
(Ord. passed 3- -1995; Ord. passed 10- -2005; Ord. 2018-03, passed 2-14-2018;
Ord. passed 1- -2020)
§ 153.057 PRELIMINARY DEVELOPMENT PLAN REQUIREMENTS.
   In addition to the basic information requirements for all development plans
(as detailed in §
153.056 of this subchapter), the following information for proposed development
shall be shown on preliminary development plans:
   (A)   Building locations and dimensions;
   (B)   Access points from public right-of-ways;
   (C)   Parking lots and sidewalks;
   (D)   Streets: the proposed names (which shall not be the same or
approximate the name of any other street in the county), pavement widths, and
right-of-way widths;
   (E)   Easements: include the location, width and purpose;
   (F)   Utilities; and
   (G)   Public sites: the name, acreage, and use of any sites proposed for
public use such as parks, playgrounds, and the like.
(Ord. passed 3- -1995; Ord. passed 10- -2005; Ord. 2018-03, passed 2-14-2018;
Ord. passed 1- -2020)
§ 153.058 FINAL DEVELOPMENT PLAN REQUIREMENTS.
   In addition to the basic information requirements for all development plans
(as detailed in §
153.056 of this subchapter), the following information shall be shown on final
development plans:
   (A)   Existing conditions on and adjacent to the tract: the following
information detailing existing conditions shall be shown (property and other
lines off the tract should be shown as dashed lines):
      (1)   Accurate survey data for all boundary lines: seconds, lineal
dimensions to hundredths of feet, radii, internal angles, points of curvature,
tangent bearing, lengths of arcs, lengths of chords;
      (2)   Streets: classification of street, locations of culverts and
gutters, elevations and locations of centerlines, elevations of curbs;
      (3)   Utilities: the location, size and invert elevations of sanitary and
storm sewers; location and size of water mains; gas lines; fire hydrants;
utility poles and lines; and street lights. If water mains and sewers are not
adjacent to the tract, indicate the direction and distance to them, provide
size of nearest ones; and
      (4)   Sinkholes: provide the location of all sinkholes. If sinkholes are
present, staff and/or the Technical Review Committee may require the developer
to provide technical information about subsurface conditions. The required
information may include, but not be limited to, subsurface soil, rock, and
ground water conditions.
   (B)   The following information detailing proposed development shall be
provided:
      (1)   Drainage report including all calculations: two copies;
      (2)   Building locations, dimensions, and finished floor elevations;
      (3)   Access points from public right-of-ways;
      (4)   Parking lots and sidewalks: provide calculations for required
parking, slope, ADA compliant provisions such as handicap parking and ramps,
signage, directional arrows, dimensions of spaces and drive lanes, calculations
for interior landscape requirements;
      (5)   Streets: the proposed names (which shall not be the same or
approximate the name of any other street in the county), right-of-way and
roadway widths; grades, traffic calming devices, signage, and directional
arrows (where needed). All street design shall be in accordance with §
153.128(A) of this chapter;
      (6)   Easements: include the location, width and purpose;
      (7)   Utilities: alignment and location of all utilities;
      (8)   Benchmarks: location and elevation of all benchmarks; there shall
be at least one per development;
      (9)   Public sites: the name, acreage, and use of any sites proposed for
public use such as parks, playgrounds and the like;
      (10)   Drainage structures and facilities: all design shall be in
accordance with §
153.130 of this chapter;
      (11)   Landscape plan showing location of landscape materials, a planting
schedule indicating species, size, and number. Provide location of street and
parking lot lights to insure no conflict exists between lights and trees.
Provide planting details and notes detailing maintenance and warranty
responsibilities; and
      (12)   Construction drawings:
         (a)   Street profiles: the plan and profile of each proposed street
(indicating the existing ground surface and proposed street grade surface) at a
horizontal scale equal to the horizontal scale of the plan/plat and a vertical
scale of ten times the horizontal scale, with finish grades indicated;
         (b)   Street cross sections: a cross section of each proposed street
at 50-foot intervals, at a scale of one inch equals ten feet (or less), showing
the width of pavement, the location and width of sidewalks, and rights-of-way;
         (c)   Sewers and storm water drainage: the plans and profiles of
proposed sanitary sewers and storm water sewers or other drainage ways, at a
horizontal scale equal to the horizontal scale of the plan/plat and at a
vertical scale of ten times the horizontal scale, with grades and sizes
indicated. If a piped system of sewers is not proposed, then an alternate
system including green infrastructure and low impact development shall be
properly illustrated as required by the City Engineer;
         (d)   Other utilities: plans and line sizes of other proposed
utilities shall be shown; and
         (e)   ADA handicap compliant details indicating materials, slopes and
the like.
(Ord. passed 3- -1995; Ord. passed 10- -2005; Ord. 2018-03, passed 2-14-2018;
Ord. passed 1- -2020)
MAJOR AND MINOR CLASSES OF SUBDIVISION ESTABLISHED FOR PROCESSING PURPOSES
§ 153.075 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to establish different classes of land
subdivisions on the basis of their relative importance to the community’s
overall development. This will then permit the establishment of requirements
for subdivision plat preparation and approval which varies for the different
classes.
(Ord. passed 3- -1995; Ord. passed 10- -2005; Ord. 2018-03, passed 2-14-2018;
Ord. passed 1- -2020)
§ 153.076 PROCESSING CLASSES FOR SUBDIVISIONS.
   (A)   In accordance with the definition found in KRS 100.111, a SUBDIVISION
OF LAND within the county and the City of Winchester means: the division of a
parcel of land into two or more lots or parcels; for the purpose, whether
immediate or future, of sale, lease, or building development, or if a new
street is involved, any division of a parcel of land; provided that a division
of land for agricultural use and not involving a new street shall not be deemed
a subdivision. The term includes resubdivision and when appropriate to the
context, shall relate to the process of subdivision or to the land subdivided;
any division or redivision of land into parcels of less than one acre occurring
within 12 months following a division of the same land shall be deemed a
subdivision within the meaning of this section.
   (B)   The statutes further provide that no land shall be subdivided,
transferred, sold, or agreed to be sold until after a plat of such land is
prepared and approved in conformance with requirements established by the
Planning Commission. Metes and bounds descriptions of the land shall not be
used on contracts for the above purposes in order to replace the required
plats. All plats must be reviewed, approved, and recorded before it can be used
as a basis for subdivided land to be transferred or sold. All division of land
shall comply with the area and dimension requirements as described in the
zoning district for which the property is located, as found in the Winchester/
Clark County zoning ordinance. Thus, these regulations are intended as the
requirements established by the Planning Commission for the preparation and
approval of subdivisions of land.
   (C)   In order to proceed towards establishing such requirements,
subdivisions shall be further classified as follows.
      (1)   Major subdivisions. Any subdivision of land for multi-family
residential, commercial, industrial, or professional uses; or into four or more
single-family residential lots; or any subdivision of land, including
agricultural uses, that requires the construction, improvement, extension, or
widening of streets; or that requires new off-site utility easements.
      (2)   Minor subdivisions. Those subdivisions of land which are generally
of minor planning significance to the community’s future development and
include only the subdivisions as described below. The division of a tract of
land into three or fewer single-family residential lots. Such minor
subdivisions shall conform specifically to the requirements established in §§
153.090 to
153.093 in addition to any other applicable regulations.
         (a)   Consolidation minor subdivisions shall be solely for the purpose
of transferring a portion of the subdivided land to an adjoining property with
which it is to be consolidated. Such adjoining property shall have a common
boundary with the portion of the subdivision intended for transfer and no new,
buildable lots are created.
         (b)   Rural minor subdivisions shall be those single-family
subdivisions characterized by the following conditions:
            1.   Division of land taking place in the Agricultural Zoning
District (A-1) which results in property(s) containing less than five acres.
The resulting divisions shall contain at least one acre (43,560 square feet) of
land;
            2.   The resulting divisions shall be used for residential and/or
agricultural purposes only and shall contain three or fewer single-family
residential lots;
            3.   All resulting divisions shall front on a paved street or road
dedicated to and maintained by the public. No new streets or roads shall be
permitted. When parcels of less than five acres are created, a common entrance
onto a public street or road shall be required and so indicated on the plat.
Divisions approved as “family farm home sites” are exempt from the frontage
requirement subject to an access easement placed on the plat and an
accompanying note that states a private entrance is granted in accordance with
§
155.132;
            4.   The subdivision shall be in conformance with the Comprehensive
Plan, implementation devices, and other applicable regulations, including any
necessary dedication for street rights-of-way. Where existing streets or roads
do not meet current standard requirements for the proposed development, the
developer may be required to bring the street or road into compliance with all
current requirements. Any subdivision of land, including agricultural uses,
that require the construction, improvement, extension, or widening of streets
will be reviewed by the Planning Commission as a major subdivision plat; and
            5.   All plats for property not served by a sanitary sewer system
must have the following note: no residential construction is permitted until
sanitary sewer approval is given by the County Health Department.
      (3)   Division of land for agricultural use. Property located in the
Agricultural Zoning District (A-1) that is divided into lots or parcels of five
or more acres and not involving a new street shall not be deemed a subdivision.
The property(s) involved shall be divided and shown on a record plat drawn and
signed by a licensed engineer or surveyor, signed by the property owner(s),
reviewed by Planning Staff, and signed by the Planning Commission Secretary.
When the Secretary is not available, the Chair or Vice-Chair of the Planning
Commission may sign the record plat. The signed record plat will need to be
recorded at the County Court House, one copy of the recorded plat will be given
to the applicant and one copy of the recorded plat will be filed in the
Planning Office.
(Ord. passed 3- -1995; Ord. passed 10- -2005; Ord. 2018-03, passed 2-14-2018;
Ord. passed 1- -2020)
SUBDIVISION PLAT PROCEDURES, FORMAT AND CONTENT
§ 153.090 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to establish procedures for plat submittal
and review. The requirements for the format and content of subdivision plats
are included in order that the plats may be prepared and processed efficiently.
(Ord. passed 3- -1995; Ord. passed 10- -2005; Ord. 2018-03, passed 2-14-2018;
Ord. passed 1- -2020)
§ 153.091 PROCEDURES FOR SUBMITTAL AND REVIEW OF SUBDIVISION PLATS.
   The step-by-step procedures listed below shall apply to all subdivision
plats unless otherwise indicated. Major subdivision plats shall only be
submitted following Planning Commission approval of a final development plan
for the property.
   (A)   Plat preparation. The developer shall have a licensed land surveyor
prepare a record plat in conformance with these regulations.
   (B)   Submission. The developer shall submit two prints of the original
plat, a completed application, a fee for review, and a fee for recording to the
Planning and Community Development office.
   (C)   Staff review. The staff shall review the plat for conformance to these
regulations, mark both prints with any necessary changes, return one print to
the developer, and retain one for office files. As soon as the plat conforms to
these regulations, four final prints and one digital formatted copy (Appendix
D) shall be submitted to be recorded. The four prints must be signed and
stamped by the surveyor and signed by the owner(s).
   (D)   Secretary’s signature. The Secretary of the Planning Commission shall
sign the Planning Commission’s certification on all four plats to signify the
Planning Commission's approval and make it eligible to be recorded. One copy
shall be kept for the office files, one returned to the developer, one retained
with the County Clerk, and one retained by the County Property Valuation
Administrator.
   (E)   Recording. The signed plat shall be recorded in the exact form as
previously approved.
(Ord. passed 3- -1995; Ord. passed 10- -2005; Ord. 2018-03, passed 2-14-2018;
Ord. passed 1- -2020)
§ 153.092 FORMAT FOR SUBDIVISION PLATS.
   The plat shall be drafted in a manner that will produce a print that
contains dark, stable lines that cannot be smudged or removed by ordinary
handling. Four prints shall be submitted and the sheet size shall be 17" x 22".
(Ord. passed 3- -1995; Ord. passed 10- -2005; Ord. 2018-03, passed 2-14-2018;
Ord. passed 1- -2020)
§ 153.093 CONTENT REQUIRED FOR SUBDIVISION PLATS.
   (A)   New parcels shall be assigned addresses by County Geographical
Information System (GIS). The e-mail address is stephenberrv@ccgisonline.com.
   (B)   The subject property shall be placed in the center of the plat with
the boundaries of the subdivision shown in a heavy, solid line; the boundaries
of the remainder of the parent tract shall be shown in a lighter dashed line;
   (C)   Provide a 3" x 3" space in the bottom, right corner labeled “County
Clerk” for the recording date and time stamp.
   (D)   The title block shall be placed along the right side of the plat. It
shall include the name of the subdivision as record plat of (name of property).
The plat shall also show the mailing address of the property being subdivided,
the owner, and the surveyor. The title block shall show the date of preparation
and all dates of revisions.
   (E)   The plat shall have a north arrow, legend, written and graphic scale
(between 1" = 10' and 1" = 100') and provide the source of title.
   (F)   A vicinity map shall be placed in the upper, right corner of the plat
and show the relationship of the subject property (drafted in solid black) to a
sufficient number of streets or highways in the area to enable one to quickly
identify the section of the county. An appropriate scale is typically one inch
equals 2,000 feet (or less).
   (G)   All divisions shall have their acreage and a number or letter
designation marked thereon.
   (H)   Lot layout and building setbacks: the location and distances for lot
lines; lot numbers and block numbers; building setback lines with dimensions.
   (I)   The plat shall provide the name of the owner(s) of adjoining property
(s) or the name of an adjacent major subdivision including the recorded plat
and deed information.
   (J)   The name, and right-of-way width, and typical cross sections of all
streets dedicated to public use which abut, adjoin or are included within the
subdivision.
   (K)   Where the tract shown on a subdivision plat represents only a portion
of the developer’s entire holding, an additional sketch shall be required as a
means of showing the proposed street layout for the remainder of the tract.
   (L)   The purpose, width, location and full extent of all easements shall be
provided.
   (M)   A dedicated right-of-way of at least 30 feet shall be required for
existing roads.
   (N)   All boundaries shall be surveyed in the field; accurate bearings and
distances shall be placed on each property line.
   (O)   On consolidation plats, land consolidation hooks shall be shown on the
parcel which is to be transferred and consolidated. In addition, the plat shall
have the following notation: “Parcel #        shall be consolidated with
adjoining parcel #       _and not conveyed as a separate parcel”.
   (P)   The plat shall show all existing major physical improvements
including, but not limited to, existing utilities, structures, property
corners, as required to meet the state “Standards of Practice for Land
Surveyors”;
   (Q)   Proposed and existing roadway entrances shall be indicated on the plat
along with certification that the proposed entrance(s) have been approved by
the agency having jurisdiction.
   (R)   Where any property lying partly in the county and partly in an
adjoining county is divided into two or more parcels, any parcel resulting from
such division that lies partly within the county shall be subject to these
regulations.
   (S)   All plats for property not served by a sanitary sewer system must have
the following note: no residential construction is permitted until sanitary
sewer approval is given by the County Health Department.
   (T)   Protective covenants: when the developer intends to regulate land use
in the subdivision and otherwise protect the development, one copy of the final
protective covenants shall be submitted as part of the final plan/plat
materials.
   (U)   Certifications required on all plats:
      PLANNING COMMISSION CERTIFICATION
      “I do hereby certify that this record plat conforms to regulations of the
Winchester/Clark County Planning Commission, and that it has been approved to
be recorded by the Clark County Court Clerk.”
Planning Commission Secretary             Date
      LAND SURVEYOR’S CERTIFICATION
“I do hereby certify that the survey shown hereon was performed by me, or under
my direction, by the method of random traverse and all monuments indicated
hereon actually exist and their size, location, and material are correctly
shown. The unadjusted mathematical error of closure ration of the random
traverse was                    and the bearings and distances shown hereon
have been adjusted for
closure. The survey as shown hereon is a Class     survey and the accuracy and
precision of said survey meets all the specifications of this class. The basis
of the bearings shown hereon is in relation to       .”
Land Surveyor’s Signature
Date
INCLUDE SURVEYOR’S ORIGINAL SEAL
   OWNER’S CERTIFICATION
“I (we) do hereby certify that I am (we are) the only owner(s) of record of the
property platted hereon, said property being the same (or a portion of)
property conveyed to me (us) by          , by
                                              dated       , and recorded in
Book       Page       , in the Clark County Clerk’s Office; and do hereby adopt
this as my (our) record plat for this property.”
Owner(s) Signature and Address          Date
Witness Signature and Address
(Ord. passed 3- -1995; Ord. passed 10- -2005; Ord. 2018-03, passed 2-14-2018;
Ord. passed 1- -2020)
DESIGN STANDARDS
§ 153.105 PURPOSE AND SUITABILITY OF LAND.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to establish the basic and minimum design
standards which will be required for lots, streets, and other physical elements
on land proposed to be developed. If the Planning Commission finds that it is
in the best interest of the public that the land should not be developed for
the purpose proposed due to flooding, high water table, topography, inadequate
water supply, transportation facilities, schools, or other conditions which may
endanger life or health, the Planning Commission shall not approve the proposed
development unless adequate methods are proposed by the developer for solving
the problems that will be created by the development.
(Prior Code, § 74.700) (Ord. passed 3- -1995; Ord. passed 10- -2005; Ord. 2018-
03, passed 2-14-2018; Ord. passed 1- -2020)
§ 153.106 STREET DESIGN STANDARDS.
   All streets which are designed primarily for the movement of vehicular
traffic shall conform to the following requirements at the minimum.
   (A)   Classification of streets. Four basic street classifications shall be
observed by developers: expressways; arterials; collectors; and minor streets.
Each class is fully defined in §
153.020.
   (B)   Street standards. The following standards shall apply to street design
elements.
      (1)   Relation to topography. Streets shall be logically related to the
topography so as to produce the most usable and properly situated lots, provide
proper drainage for storm water, and produce proper grades.
      (2)   Street continuity. Streets in proposed subdivisions shall generally
provide for the continuation of existing or dedicated streets in adjoining or
nearby tracts, and provide for connection to adjoining unsubdivided tracts.
      (3)   Street names. Streets which are obviously in alignment with
existing streets shall bear the names of the existing streets. Street names
shall not duplicate or closely approximate the names of existing streets in the
county. Street name signs of a type in use throughout the city and county shall
be erected by the developer at all intersections. Temporary street signs and
lot addresses shall be erected on all streets and lots under construction to
facilitate first responders in the event of an emergency. Permanent street
signs shall be required when the first building on the street obtains a
certificate of occupancy.
      (4)   Partial subdivision. Where a development plan includes only a site
plan for part of the tract owned or intended for development by the developer,
an overall plan of the proposed street system for the remaining portion shall
be prepared by the developer and submitted to the Planning Commission for
review and action.
      (5)   Planning for conflicting traffic or land use. Whenever the proposed
development contains, or is adjacent to a railroad, arterial street, or other
conflicting land use, the Planning Commission may require marginal access
streets, reverse frontage lots, lots with rear service alleys, lots with
additional depth, or other such treatment as may be necessary for protection of
abutting properties and afford separation of conflicting types of traffic or
land use.
      (6)   New partial streets and reserve strips. New partial streets and
reserve strips shall not be permitted, except where essential to reasonable
development of a tract and where satisfactory assurance for dedication of the
remaining part of the street can be secured. No reserve strips shall be
permitted unless the Planning Commission gives its express permission.
      (7)   Existing partial streets. Whenever a proposed development borders
an existing partial street, the other part of the street shall generally be
plotted within the proposed development.
      (8)   Cul-de-sacs. Shall not be longer than 500 feet including the
turnaround which shall be provided at the closed end with a right-of-way radius
of 50 feet and a transition curve radius of 75 feet for connecting the
turnaround with the rest of the street. Temporary turnarounds may be required
at the end of stub streets.
      (9)   Oversize improvements. Whenever street rights-of-way or other
improvements are required in excess of what is needed to meet the demands of
the development being considered, the Planning Commission should require
dedication or improvement costs of the developer only to the extent of the
development requirements. The Planning Commission may encourage other
appropriate entities to finance the acquisition or costs of the additional
improvements.
      (10)   Special street types. Permanent dead-end streets shall be
prohibited. Temporary dead-end streets shall be permitted as part of a
continuing street plan only if the temporary turnaround is designed to the
satisfaction of the Planning Commission.
      (11)   Alleys. Alleys may be required if other provisions cannot be made
for adequate service access. The minimum widths for alleys shall be 20 feet for
the right-of-way and 18 feet for the pavement width.
      (12)   Private streets. Private streets, where permitted, shall be
designed and constructed according to the standards for minor streets in these
regulations. Such streets shall be maintained by a mechanism which provides for
equitable common responsibility for street maintenance and repair. All recorded
plats with private streets shall note the details of the maintenance
responsibilities of the property owners abutting the street.
      (13)   Rural residential streets. Rural residential streets shall be
built to county road standards with a minimum pavement width and right-of-way
that meets the standards for minor streets in these regulations. The need for
curbs, gutters, and sidewalks shall be determined by the Planning Commission on
a case-by-case basis depending on anticipated traffic volume and increased
storm water runoff.
   (C)   Street rights-of-way and grades. Shall be as follows.
 
Street Classification Min. R.O.W.* Max. Grade** Min. Grade
Alleys                20'          12.0%        0.5%
Arterials             80'          5.0%         0.5%
Collectors            60'          10.0%        0.5%
Expressways           120'         5.0%         0.5%
Minors                50'          12.0%        0.5%
*Additional right-of-way may be required whenever a proposed development
abuts or contains an existing road of inadequate width, or to provide
parking space in high density residential districts or nonresidential areas,
or to provide drainage easements where streets parallel streams or drainage
areas, or for other reasons to promote public safety and convenience.
**The Planning Commission may increase these maximum grades whenever they
feel special topographic or other conditions justifies such increase.
 
   (D)   Street alignment. The minimum horizontal and vertical alignment on all
streets shall be as determined by accepted engineering practice and as follows:
Street         *Horiz. Curve Radius **Stop Sight Dist. Crest Curves Sag Curves
Classification
Street          *Horiz. Curve **Stop Sight Crest Curves      Sag Curves
Classification  Radius        Dist.
Arterials       573'          325'         L = 50A           L = 50A
Collectors      500'          250'         L = 45A; 100' min L = 60A; 100' min
Expressways     1,146'        550'         L = 80A           L = 70A
Minor,          100'          150'         L = 22A; 100' min L = 35A; 100'
continuing                                                   min.
Alleys          100'          N.A.         N.A.
Cul-de-sac      100'          1500'        L = 22A; 100'     L = 35A; 100' min
                                           min.
Marginal Access 150'          150'         L = 22A; 100' min L = 35A; 100' min
*Whenever street centerlines are deflected in excess of one degree, connection
shall be made by horizontal curves with a minimum radius at the centerline as
noted. A 55 mph design speed was assumed for expressways, 40 mph for
arterials, 30 mph for collectors, and 20 mph for all minor streets. Design
must comply with the most recent AASHTO policy: “A Policy on Geometric Design
of Highways and Streets”.
**A minimum safe stopping sight distance, measured from driver’s eye level of
four and one-half feet above road surface along centerline of driver’s path to
top of object four inches high above road surface, shall be provided as noted.
Design must comply with the most recent AASHTO policy: “A Policy on Geometric
Design of Highways and Streets”.
***All changes in street grades, having an algebraic difference exceeding
0.5%, shall be connected by vertical curves of a minimum length as noted. In
the formula, L = minimum length of vertical curve; A = algebraic difference in
grades in percent; 100' min. means minimum acceptable length of curve.
 
   (E)   Street intersections. The following standards shall be the minimum for
intersection designs.
      (1)   Number of approaches. Intersections involving more than four basic
street legs or approaches shall be prohibited. Merging lanes, deceleration
lanes, “Y” intersections, and the like are not included in this prohibition,
but are considered as being parts of one street leg or approach.
      (2)   Angle of street intersection. For a tangent distance of at least
100 feet, measured from the intersection of right-of-way lines, all streets
shall intersect at an angle of 90 degrees, where practical, but in no case
shall be less than 75 degrees.
      (3)   Intersection offset. Streets entering opposite sides of another
street shall be laid out either directly opposite one another or with a minimum
offset of 125 feet between their centerlines. For minor and collector streets,
consideration should be given to “T” intersections.
      (4)   Intersection spacing. All minor streets intersecting with, and
entering the same side of, arterial and collector streets shall be located at
least 800 feet apart, measured between centerlines, except that in plans for
entire neighborhoods such intersections may be spaced at closer intervals up to
200 feet. All minor streets intersecting with, and entering the same side of
minor streets shall be located at least 200 feet apart, measured between
centerlines. Access points from marginal access streets onto arterials, and
collectors also shall observe the 800 feet separation. When through streets
cross marginal streets and enter a collector or arterial, the marginal access
road may be required to be bowed outward at the intersection in order to
provide storage space of 100 feet or more to the arterials or collector
streets.
      (5)   Excessive grades at intersections. Where the grade of any street
exceeds 3% at the approach to an intersection, a leveling area of 3% or less
shall be provided for a distance of 50 feet from the intersection of street
centerlines. Vertical curves shall then be used to connect the intersecting
grades.
      (6)   Intersection sight triangle for crossing. At all intersections,
sight triangles shall be provided which will permit vehicles on the designated
“stop” street to safely cross, or turn into, the through street. The sight
triangles shall be formed by measuring along and from the intersection of, the
street centerlines, and connecting the measured points. The resulting triangles
must lie wholly within the street rights-of-way.
Street Classification Distance Along Through Street Distance Along Stop Street
Street Classification Distance Along Through Street Distance Along Stop Street
Arterials             625'                          35'
Collectors            500'                          30'
Expressways           N.A.                          N.A.
All minors, ex. below 250'                          25'
Alleys                N.A.                          N.A.
Cul-de-sacs           200'                          25'
Marginal access       200'                          25'
 
      (7)   Minimum property line radii. For street intersections, the minimum
radius at property line shall be 20 feet for all streets, unless sound
engineering practice dictates otherwise.
(Prior Code, § 74.710) (Ord. passed 3- -1995; Ord. passed 10- -2005; Ord. 2018-
03, passed 2-14-2018; Ord. passed 1- -2020)
§ 153.107 LOT DESIGN STANDARDS.
   The following shall be required standards to be observed for the design of
lots in a subdivision.
   (A)   Corner lots. Lots shall be of sufficient width to permit compliance
with the minimum building setback lines on all property lines which abut
streets. In order to comply with the additional width requirement and continue
the same size homes as are on adjoining lots, residential corner lots shall be
increased to necessary width.
   (B)   Lot lines. Side lot lines should be at right angles to straight street
centerlines, radial to curved street centerlines, and extensions of the center
point of cul-de-sacs. Rear lot lines should consist of straight lines with a
minimum number of deflections.
   (C)   Lot shape. Excessive depth in relation to width should be avoided. A
proportion of two and one- half to one is normally considered a desirable
maximum for lot widths of 60 feet or greater. Pointed or very irregular shaped
lots should be avoided where possible. Additional depth may be required on lots
which back up to railroads, major streets, or other conflicting land uses.
   (D)   Access. All lots shall abut a paved, public street and shall have
readily apparent physical means of pedestrian and vehicular access from the lot
onto the street.
   (E)   Double frontage lots. Double frontage lots shall be prohibited except
where employed to prevent excessive vehicular driveway access to streets, or to
separate residential areas from other areas of conflicting land or traffic use.
   (F)   Land remnants. If remnants of land exist after subdividing, and have
no apparent future use which can be properly controlled, they shall be
incorporated into the lots of the proposed lots to eliminate unusable parcels.
   (G)   Lot area, width, and minimum building setback line. Lots shall meet
the minimum standards required by the zoning ordinance. All lots permitted with
septic tanks shall be of at least 43,560 square feet in size, as covered by §
153.128(D).
(Prior Code, § 74.720) (Ord. passed 3- -1995; Ord. passed 10- -2005; Ord. 2018-
03, passed 2-14-2018; Ord. passed 1- -2020)
§ 153.108 EASEMENT DESIGN STANDARDS.
   The following shall be the required standards to be observed for the design
of easements.
   (A)   Utilities. An easement for utilities may be required along side and/or
rear property lines, or wherever necessary to form a continuous right-of-way.
Easement location shall be determined by the affected utility.
   (B)   Slope/grading easement. Whenever a proposed development affects an
existing or proposed road in such a way that present or future grading of such
road’s full right-of-way width will necessitate cuts and fills in adjoining
property, a slope/grading easement on such adjoining property shall be
required.
   (C)   Storm water drainage easement. Wherever a development has a
watercourse on it, a drainage easement shall be provided. This drainage
easement shall have adequate width for workers to install, maintain, or repair
drainage facilities with necessary equipment. When required for creeks or
streams, such drainage easements shall be dedicated to the city or county and
recorded on a plat. All requirements of Part II, Section F of the Stormwater
Manual shall be met.
   (D)   Connection to existing easements. Where necessary, utility and
drainage easements shall connect with written and recorded easements already
established on adjoining properties.
(Prior Code, § 74.730) (Ord. passed 3- -1995; Ord. passed 10- -2005; Ord. 2018-
03, passed 2-14-2018; Ord. passed 1- -2020)
§ 153.109 COMMUNITY FACILITIES DESIGN STANDARDS.
   The following shall be the required standards to be observed for the design
and provision of community facilities and related elements.
   (A)   Assessing needs for community facilities. In reviewing development
plans, the Planning Commission shall consider the adequacy of existing or
proposed community facilities which must serve the additional population to be
housed in the proposed development. Developers shall also give earnest
consideration to dedicating or reserving land for those facilities which will
be needed by the people who buy homes in residential developments, such as
public buildings, schools, recreational areas, and shopping centers.
   (B)   Adequacy of community facilities areas. Areas provided or reserved for
such community facilities should be adequate for building sites, landscaping,
and off-street parking for the proposed use.
   (C)   Preservation of existing physical assets. Existing features which are
assets to the community shall be preserved as much as possible through
harmonious design of the isolated development. Examples of such features are
stone fences, groupings of trees or isolated outstanding trees, watercourses,
vacant historical ground, historical buildings, and similar irreplaceable
physical, cultural and/or historical assets.
   (D)   Flood hazards.    Development shall be prohibited in areas designated
to lie within the 100-year flood plain on the flood insurance rate maps
(FIRM’s) produced by the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA). Land
subject to flooding or otherwise uninhabitable shall not be platted for
residential use or for any other use which may increase danger to health, life,
property or aggravate erosion or flood hazards. Such land within a development
shall be set aside on the plat for uses that will not be endangered by flooding
and will not result in conditions contrary to the public welfare. Some of those
uses include, but are not limited to, open space, extensive recreation use, and
conservation purposes. The Planning Commission shall require the developer to
provide elevation and flood profiles for questionable lots. It is the
responsibility of the developer to document that all proposed, buildable lots
will be located on flood-free sites (as determined by FEMA). Where appropriate,
notes shall be placed on lots that restrict the construction of basements. If
fill is proposed within areas designated as floodplain, the developer shall
include approval from the Kentucky Division of Water for the proposed fill as
part of a complete application to be reviewed by the Planning Commission.
      (1)   Stream easement. The recorded plat shall provide a storm water
easement for a floodway of at least 20 feet when a stream flows through, or
adjacent to, the proposed development. For smaller streams, the recorded plat
shall provide channel improvements with the capacity to carry 100-year
frequency rainfall within the stream banks.
      (2)   Streets. Approval shall not be given for streets within a
development which would be subject to inundation, flooding, or culverts which
are inadequate to handle the 50-year frequency storm, unless the culvert is
being used as a part of the stormwater retention/detention plan.
(Prior Code, § 74.740) (Ord. passed 3- -1995; Ord. passed 10- -2005; Ord. 2018-
03, passed 2-14-2018; Ord. passed 1- -2020)
§ 153.110 PUBLIC SITES AND OPEN SPACE STANDARDS.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to establish minimum recommended standards
that developers must conform to when providing and constructing public sites
and open space in a development.
   (A)   Reservation of land for public use. The Planning Commission may
require a reservation of up to 10% of the gross area of a development for a
period of two years from the date of approval by the Planning Commission for
parks, playgrounds, schools or other public uses. The Planning Commission may
recommend acquisition of the reserved area to the appropriate public agency.
After the two-year period has elapsed, if the public agency affected has not
begun negotiations for acquisition for the area, full rights shall revert to
the owner.
   (B)   Capital improvement land reservation. If the city has adopted an
official map and a short term capital improvement program (as provided for in
KRS 100.293 to 100.311) which includes parks, recreational areas, school sites,
or other public grounds, the Planning Commission may require a reservation up
to five years, for the purchase of the public grounds by the appropriate public
agency. If the public agency affected has not begun negotiations for
acquisition for the area within the designated time, full rights shall revert
to the owner.
   (C)   Open space program. Every developer of land for residential
developments that do not contain public sites shall be required to provide land
or payment in lieu thereof, for that portion of benefits from public sites
accruing to the proposed development as determined by the Planning Commission.
   (D)   Buffer zones. Buffer zones of landscape plantings or other appropriate
screening shall be required where incompatible land uses abut. The plant
species, size, and quantity shall be provided on the development plan and the
plantings shall be in accordance with the landscaping and buffer guidelines in
the Zoning Code and may include green infrastructure practices.
(Prior Code, § 74.750) (Ord. passed 3- -1995; Ord. passed 10- -2005; Ord. 2018-
03, passed 2-14-2018; Ord. passed 1- -2020)
§ 153.111 LOW IMPACT DEVELOPMENT DESIGN STANDARDS.
   (A)   Low impact development (LID) is a planning and design approach to site
development that is gaining popularity throughout the Commonwealth of Kentucky.
Its attractiveness lies in its potential to lessen on-site and off-site
stormwater impacts, reduce infrastructure costs to developers and
municipalities, and promote development that is "softer on the land" compared
with typical traditional development. This approach, which is applicable to
residential, commercial and industrial projects, and scalable to urban,
suburban and rural settings, often is linked with efforts by citizens and
municipalities to foster more sustainable, livable communities.
   (B)   Low impact development mimics pre-development hydrology, treats
stormwater as close to its source as possible, provides opportunities for
groundwater recharge, preserves natural drainage systems and open space, and
incorporates small-scale controls that replicate natural processes in detaining
and filtering stormwater. Low impact development uses the divide and conquer
theory to treat relatively small amounts of stormwater and utilize it in
beneficial ways. This contrasts with conventional stormwater management
approaches geared to concentrating and collecting runoff and exporting it off-
site as a waste product.
   (C)   Low impact development techniques provide many benefits to a wide
variety of stakeholders. Municipalities can often increase collaborative
public/private partnerships and potentially reduce the cost of municipal
infrastructure and maintenance (streets, curbs, gutters, and storm sewers).
Municipalities may also reduce or eliminate nonpoint source pollutants from
reaching waterways. The reduction of stream bank erosion protects regional
flora and fauna. Balancing growth needs with environmental protection can
potentially enhance both physical health (by increasing opportunities to walk
and exercise outside) and mental health (by improving the visual quality of the
environment which can reduce stress and mental fatigue).
   (D)   Developers can potentially reduce the costs of clearing and grading
land, infrastructure (streets, curbs, and gutters), storm water management, and
impact fees. They also can potentially increase lot yield and marketability.
Low impact development potentially protects the environment by preserving the
integrity of ecological and biological systems. Preservation of trees and
natural vegetation reduces impacts to plants and animals. Water quality is
improved when sediment, nutrient, and toxic loads to water bodies are reduced.
      (1)   Green infrastructure is an approach to stormwater management that
integrates systems that mimic natural processes in order to infiltrate,
evaporate, and/or reuse stormwater. Green infrastructure uses soils,
topography, and vegetation in a way that minimizes the impact of human
disturbance and maintains the pre-development hydrology and water quality of
urban environments. The goal of green infrastructure is to design a built
environment that functions as part of an ecosystem rather than apart from it.
This is an innovative approach to urban stormwater management that
strategically integrates stormwater controls throughout the urban landscape and
does not rely solely on conventional end-of-pipe structural practices.
      (2)   Green infrastructure practices have the potential to address one or
more of the following stormwater related issues: reduce runoff volume, reduce
peak discharge, and improve water quality. A site may contain several green
infrastructure practices that work together to capture, infiltrate and/or
harvest rain water. The following section describes nine of the most common
green infrastructure practices divided into three categories: capture,
infiltration and harvest/reuse. Each green infrastructure practice has its
advantages and appropriate applications. This section assesses those and
describes each practice in terms of suitability, limitations, land area
demands, relative costs, and maintenance.
         (a)   Capture.
            1.   Permeable pavement is available in the form of pervious
concrete, porous asphalt, permeable pavers (concrete and brick).
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/cf75951e4e99738f740e9342fd403c07c11a6c55/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1740.png]
 
            2.   Vegetative roofs/vegetative walls are separated into two types
based on the depth of growing media: extensive (2"-6") and intensive (6"-4').
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/cf75951e4e99738f740e9342fd403c07c11a6c55/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1742.png]
 
            3.   Tree box filters have mini filtration areas beneath trees or
shrubs and are contained within an in-ground unit.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/cf75951e4e99738f740e9342fd403c07c11a6c55/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1744.png]
 
         (b)   Infiltration.
            1.   Downspout disconnection directs rain water away from buildings
and allows it to flow over permeable surfaces such as grass.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/cf75951e4e99738f740e9342fd403c07c11a6c55/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1746.png]
 
            2.   Vegetative swales are planted with grasses or native plantings
designed to accept rain water flow then allow it to infiltrate the ground and
be filtered.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/cf75951e4e99738f740e9342fd403c07c11a6c55/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1748.png]
 
            3.    Rain gardens and bio-retention areas are amended with soils
that allow rainwater infiltration. They are planted with native grasses and
wildflowers that move water from the soil into the air through
evapotranspiration.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/cf75951e4e99738f740e9342fd403c07c11a6c55/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1750.png]
 
            4.   Street trees reduce storm water runoff and heat island effects
through evapotranspiration.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/cf75951e4e99738f740e9342fd403c07c11a6c55/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1752.png]
 
         (c)   Harvesting/reuse.
            1.   Rain barrels and cisterns are appropriate for residential,
commercial and industrial sites. Rainwater reuse includes irrigation for lawns,
planting beds, and nonportable water uses.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/cf75951e4e99738f740e9342fd403c07c11a6c55/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1754.png]
 
            2.   Underground storm water storage systems can be used to meet
storm water detention requirements.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/cf75951e4e99738f740e9342fd403c07c11a6c55/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1756.png]
 
         (d)   Incentives.
            1.   Incentives to implement green infrastructure practices
potentially include the following: reduction of infrastructure costs for storm
water management, increase in development marketability, reduction in land
clearing and grading costs, potential synergies for meeting storm water
quality, quantity and landscape requirements for the City of Winchester and the
county.
            2.   The EPA has produced two green infrastructure reports entitled
“Green Infrastructure Case Studies: Municipal Policies for Managing Stormwater
with Green Infrastructure” August, 2010, and “Reducing Stormwater Cost through
Low Impact Development (LID) Strategies and Practices” December, 2007. These
highlight case studies from across the United States that demonstrate the
benefits of green infrastructure practices.
         (c)   Resources.
            1.   EPA Low Impact Development: http://water.epa.gov/polwaste/
green/;
            2.   EPA Green Infrastructure: http://water.epa.gov/infrastructure/
greeninfrastructure/ index.cfm;
            3.   Low Impact Development Center: www.lowimpactdevelopment.org/;
and
            4.   Green Roofs for Healthy Cities: www.Rreenroofs.org/.
(Ord. passed 3- -1995; Ord. passed 10- -2005; Ord. 2018-03, passed 2-14-2018;
Ord. passed 1- -2020)
PHYSICAL IMPROVEMENTS
§ 153.125 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to establish the minimum standards to
which developers must conform in providing and constructing the subdivision’s
physical improvements.
(Prior Code, § 74.800) (Ord. passed 3- -1995; Ord. passed 10- -2005; Ord. 2018-
03, passed 2-14-2018; Ord. passed 1- -2020)
§ 153.126 COMPLETION OF IMPROVEMENTS.
   (A)   All of the required improvements shall be completed in accordance
with, and under the supervision of, the officials or agencies having
jurisdiction, prior to the filing with the Commission of the final plans for
approval.
   (B)   In the alternative, with the Commission’s approval, the developer, in
lieu of completing the improvements as stated above, shall furnish the
Commission with a performance guarantee bond running to the Winchester/Clark
County Planning Commission for and on behalf of the City of Winchester and the
county, whichever is appropriate. The bond shall be sufficient to cover the
cost, plus 10% of all the improvements required to be installed by the
subdivider and approved by the appropriate planning Commission Engineer,
thereby to secure the actual construction and installation of such improvements
immediately after approval of the final plat or at a time as may be established
by the Commission. All physical improvements (including all utilities) shall be
installed under the direction, supervision, and coordination of the developer’s
engineer.
(Prior Code, § 74.810) (Ord. passed 3- -1995; Ord. passed 10- -2005; Ord. 2018-
03, passed 2-14-2018; Ord. passed 1- -2020)
§ 153.127 IMPROVEMENTS CLASSIFICATION OF SUBDIVISIONS.
   Each proposed subdivision, or portions thereof, shall be designated as
falling in one or more of the classifications noted below, and improvements
shall then be required in accordance with such designated classification. The
subdivision’s classification shall not necessarily be determined by its zoning
ordinance district, even though reference to such districts is noted below.
 
Proposed Use of Land in the Subdivision            Subdivision Classification
Business use, of a business zone character         “E”
High density urban residential, an R-3, R-4, or R- “D”
5 character
Industrial use, of an industrial zone character    “F”
Rural residential, generally county homes of an A- “A”
1 Zone character
Suburban residential R-1 Zone character            “B”
Urban residential, generally of an R-2 Zone        “C”
character
 
(Prior Code, § 74.820) (Ord. passed 3- -1995; Ord. passed 10- -2005; Ord. 2018-
03, passed 2-14-2018; Ord. passed 1- -2020)
§ 153.128 GENERAL DESCRIPTION OF REQUIRED IMPROVEMENTS.
   The following shall be the minimum required improvements to be installed by
the developer at his or her expense in accordance with the specifications of
the officials or agencies having jurisdiction unless otherwise noted.
Improvements exceeding these minimum requirements may be provided by the
developer, or may be required by the Commission or other agencies having
jurisdiction. The detailed construction specifications for each improvement
shall be supplied to the developer by the official or agency having
jurisdiction. A subdivision’s “classification” shall determine the character of
the minimum improvements as shown in the following.
   (A)   Streets.
Type of Improvement Subdivision    R.O.W. Pavement1 Curb Gutter Sidewalk2
                    Classification
Type of     Subdivision    R.O.W. Pavement1 Curb Gutter Sidewalk2
Improvement Classification
Alleys      ABCDEF         20'    *3        *3   *3     No
Arterials   A              80'    *3        Yes  Yes    On both sides
           B              80'    *3        Yes  Yes    On both sides
           CDE            80'    *3        Yes  Yes    On both sides
Collectors  A              60'    36'       Yes  Yes    On both sides
           B              60'    36'       Yes  Yes    On both sides
           C              60'    36'       Yes  Yes    On both sides
Cul-de-sac4 ABCDE          50'    30'       Yes  Yes    Yes
Minors      A              50'    24'       Yes  Yes    On both sides
continuing
           B              50'    30'       Yes  Yes    On both sides
           CDE            50'    30'       Yes  Yes    On both sides
           F              50'    24'       No   No     On both sides
                           Widening, or other improvements to existing streets shall
Miscellaneo                be as required by the Commission with the advice of the
us          ABCDEF         Planning Commission Engineer and as required in §
                           153.129(C). Sidewalks shall be maintained by the property
                           owner.
1   Dimension of pavement width alone with no curbs; but back of curb to back of
curb when curbs are used.
2   Sidewalks shall be constructed on both sides of any street whenever the
Commission finds such necessary for pedestrian protection. See §§
153.128(J) and
153.129(D) for specifications.
3   As determined by the Commission with advice of Planning Commission Engineer or
State Department of Highways.
4   Cul-de-sac turnarounds shall have a 40' radius pavement within a 50' right-of-
way radius. Temporary turn-arounds may be required at the end of stubbed streets and
contained within the straight street right-of-way.
The Planning Commission and/or DOT Engineer has jurisdiction over review of this
element
 
   (B)   Grading. All streets shall be excavated and graded for the full width
of their typical section. The City or County Engineer and State Department of
Highways have jurisdiction over this element.
   (C)   Water supply system. Every subdivision shall be provided with a
complete water distribution system adequate to serve the area being platted,
including a connection for each lot. Where fire protection service is provided
by the water supplier, fire hydrants shall be installed and spaced in
accordance with the guidelines established by the fire officials having
jurisdiction. The entire water system shall be designed to meet the approval of
the officials having jurisdiction. Winchester Municipal Utilities Company, the
relevant Water District, city or county fire departments, and the state’s
Department of Health have jurisdiction over this element.
   (D)   Sanitary sewage disposal system. In every subdivision, provision shall
be made for the satisfactory disposal of sanitary sewage as pursuant to the
Planning Commission Engineer, County Health Department, and Winchester
Municipal Utilities or other utilities having jurisdiction over this:
      (1)   On all lots of less than 43,560 square feet, a public sanitary
sewer main is required; the subdivision shall be provided with a complete
sanitary sewer system connected to the existing sewer main, with lateral
connections for each lot, and manholes spaced as approved by the utility having
jurisdiction;
      (2)   When the Commission feels that a public sanitary sewer main is not
reasonably accessible, the Commission may consider permitting the use of
individual disposal systems for each lot of 43,560 square feet or greater, if
such lot fully conforms to the requirements of the officials having
jurisdiction; and
      (3)   Whenever a complete sewer system is provided, all lines shall be
constructed as approved by the utility having jurisdiction.
   (E)   Gas supply system. Columbia Gas and other gas companies have
jurisdiction over this.
   (F)   Electric supply system. In every subdivision, provision shall be made
for a satisfactory electric supply system. In all cases (except existing
aboveground lines and new 3 phase service) all necessary wires shall be placed
underground, rather than on poles and towers.
   (G)   Telephone, cable and communication supply system. In every
subdivision, provision shall be made for a satisfactory communications supply
systems. In all cases (except existing aboveground lines) all wiring shall be
placed underground, rather than on poles or towers.
   (H)   Street and sidewalk lighting. In every subdivision in the city,
provisions shall be made for a satisfactory street and walkway lighting system.
In the city, these shall be installed at the city’s expense in locations
predetermined by Kentucky Utilities and approved by the county. The underground
service to the streetlights shall be provided for at the expense of the
developer.
   (I)   Street name signs. In every subdivision, the developer shall provide
street name signs at all street intersections.
   (J)   Pedestrian sidewalks. When required by the Commission sidewalks shall
be of concrete, at least four feet wide, four inches thick, and located on the
right-of-way line. All sidewalks shall be ramped at street intersections and in
all other respects comply with American with Disabilities Act Guidelines. The
Planning Commission Engineer has jurisdiction over this.
   (K)   Curb cuts for private driveways. All private driveway access points
shall be constructed so as not to divert storm water away from the curb and
gutter. The driveway shall not extend into any portion of the curb, gutter or
paved area of the street. Prior to the construction of any such access point
along any state and/or federal roads, and as required by local jurisdictions,
an encroachment permit shall be required.
   (L)   Driveway approaches. All areas of the private driveway constructed in
the public right-of-way shall be of concrete.
   (M)   Monuments. In all subdivisions, iron pin monuments one-half inch in
diameter and at least 18 inches long, shall be placed at all points on
subdivision boundary lines where there is a change of direction, and at all
rear lot corners and behind the curb at the lot line extended. These pins shall
be placed only after all area grading and sidewalk construction have been
completed. A guard stake shall be placed next to each pin with the lot number
and the number of the adjoining lot plainly lettered on the flat faces of the
stake. The Planning Commission Engineer has this jurisdiction.
   (N)   Street trees. In all residential developments regardless of
classification, street trees are required to be planted on both sides of all
streets in accordance with Appendix F.
(Prior Code, § 74.830) (Ord. passed 3- -1995; Ord. passed 10- -2005; Ord. 2018-
03, passed 2-14-2018; Ord. passed 1- -2020)
§ 153.129 SPECIFICATIONS FOR STREET AND DRAINAGE CONSTRUCTION.
   The following shall be the minimum specifications for construction of
streets and storm water drainage improvements.
   (A)   General.
      (1)   Storm sewer design shall be made a part of the plans and the
details thereon shall be adhered to except as otherwise stated herein. All
storm sewer pipe shall be 15 inches or greater in diameter and shall meet
Kentucky D.O.T. specifications.
      (2)   Materials for all items of construction of any description or
nature shall conform to standards set out in the Kentucky D.O.T.
specifications, except as herein set out and described.
      (3)   Portland cement concrete for all items of construction of any
description or nature shall conform to requirements for 3,500 pound per square
inch compressive strength. In cases of disputes arising relating to
construction methods, or materials, the Kentucky Standard Specifications for
Road and Bridge Construction (1994 or the most recent edition) shall govern.
   (B)   Street construction. Streets shall be constructed in conformance with
the Kentucky Standard Specifications for Road and Bride Construction (1994 or
the most recent edition) and the following requirements.
      (1)   Grading and embankments. The area on which streets are to be
constructed should be cleared of all vegetation for a depth of at least six
inches and disposed of outside of the limits of the typical section. Prior to
the construction of embankments, any unsuitable materials, on which the
embankment will be superimposed, should be removed and the area should be
stabilized by conventional methods. The embankments shall be formed by placing
material in successive horizontal layers of not more than 12 inches in
thickness, loose depth. Each layer shall be thoroughly compacted.
      (2)   Cut section excavation. Cut sections should be excavated to the
required typical section and any unsuitable material encountered shall be
removed and the area backfilled in six inch horizontal layers and thoroughly
compacted before successive layers are placed.
      (3)   Solid rock excavation. If solid rock is encountered in connection
with the grading operation, the solid rock shall be removed to a depth of six
inches below subgrade elevation and back filled to meet the requirements of §
153.129(B)(1).
      (4)   Subgrade preparation. Prior to the construction of either rigid or
flexible type surface course construction, the subgrade shall be shaped to the
required typical section and thoroughly compacted. Any subgrade found to be
unstable or irregular shall be corrected ahead of the various types of base or
pavement construction.
      (5)   Concrete street paving. Portland cement concrete (rigid) street
pavement is not permitted.
      (6)   Bituminous concrete (asphalt) on macadam base. The macadam base
shall consist of dense graded aggregated limestone compacted to a finished
depth of not less than eight inches, to be laid in two, four-inch compacted
courses. The aggregate base shall be pugmilled and contain sufficient moisture
to obtain maximum compaction. Upon this base shall be placed a binder course
consisting of bituminous concrete Class 1; placed as follows, based on Kentucky
(KM 64-501) CBR (California Bearing Ratio) test results performed at the
proposed road location every 500 feet or fraction thereof; applied and finished
to the requirements of the 2000 Kentucky Standard Specifications for Bridge and
Road Construction (see
Appendix C).
      (7)   Street crown. Streets measuring 30 feet from back of curb to back
of curb shall have a three-inch crown between pavement edge of concrete gutter.
Street measuring 30 feet from back to back of curb shall have a three and one-
half inch crown between pavement edge of concrete gutters. Streets measuring 36
feet from back to back of curb shall have a four-inch crown between pavement
edge of concrete gutters.
      (8)   Concrete mountable curb and gutter (see
Exhibit 8-1 below). Concrete curbs shall measure 24 inches from back of curb to
outer edge of gutter. The back form shall be not less than ten inches in depth.
The outer edge of the gutter (next to the street paving) shall be a full seven
inches in depth and shall have a one-inch slope toward the curb except at
street intersections where adjustments may be necessary to alter or eliminate
the slope for practical reasons. The form at the edge of the gutter shall be
full seven inches in depth. Concrete shall comply with state DOT standards.
      (9)   Concrete box curb and gutter (see
Exhibit 8-1 below). Concrete box curb and gutter shall measure 24 inches from
back of curb to the outer gutter. The back curb form shall be a full 12 inches
in depth. The curb shall be a full seven inches in thickness for its entire
width. The gutter shall slope one inch toward the curb. Subgrade, for curb and
gutter shall be four inches thick. Concrete shall comply with state DOT
standards.
      (10)   Concrete lip curbs and bituminous curbs. Concrete up curbs and
bituminous curbs are not permitted (see
Exhibit 8-1 below).
      (11)   Testing of subgrade and macadam base. The owner shall be required
to have an independent agency test the subgrade prior to installation of the
base utilizing a proof roll test and the base shall also be tested to insure
compliance with the referenced standards.
   (C)   Requirements for development adjoining existing roadways. Whenever a
subdivision is proposed abutting an existing public roadway which does not meet
the right-of-way and pavement width standards contained herein for the
functional classification of the sheet, and the Commission finds that
development of the subdivision will increase the volume of traffic on such
street to a significant degree, the following requirements shall apply:
      (1)   The developer shall be required to dedicate right-of-way width
necessary to comply with the standards contained herein. It is assumed that the
same right-of-way dedication will be required on the opposite side of the
roadway at such time as that property develops, thereby providing the full
necessary right-of-way width.
      (2)   Roadway widening improvements (including paving, curb, gutter, and
sidewalk where appropriate) shall be required as necessary to bring the roadway
up to the full cross section requirements contained in these subdivision
regulations. The physical construction of such improvements by the developer
shall be required; however, in certain cases, the Commission may require a cash
payment or long term performance bond or letter of credit in lieu of
construction if recommended by the Commission Engineer.
      (3)   The maximum liability of any developer under this section shall not
exceed right-of-way and improvements as for collector streets contained herein.
In cases where the ultimate proposed cross section would be a four lane
arterial highway, developers may be required to dedicate excess right-of-way
above the collector standard. In consideration of such dedication, widening
improvements usually shall not be required in such cases for full road
frontage, but rather, improvements such as turn lanes shall generally be
required in association with new intersecting streets or other access points
when necessary to provide as safe a situation as possible under the
circumstances.
   (D)   Concrete sidewalks. Concrete sidewalks to be constructed a minimum
width of four feet and in accordance with the current standards and
specifications of the Kentucky Transportation Cabinet. Sidewalks shall be
placed on the edge of the street right-of-way line. The slope toward the curb
shall be one-quarter of an inch to the foot. The concrete shall comply with
state DOT standards.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/cf75951e4e99738f740e9342fd403c07c11a6c55/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1766.png]
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/cf75951e4e99738f740e9342fd403c07c11a6c55/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1768.png]
 
E)    Stormwater drainage construction. The following shall apply .
      (1)    Manholes. Manholes shall be constructed of precast concrete with a
concrete foundation.
      (2)   Inlets or catch basins. Nets or catch basins shall be constructed
of reinforced concrete. The type of manholes, inlets, and other drainage
structures shall be indicated on the plats for the proposed work and approval
obtained before the final processing of the plat.
      (3)   Box culverts. Any drainage requiring box culvert construction shall
be constructed of reinforced concrete. Structures shall be designed for
adequate loading. The back filling of any box culvert shall be done in layers
not exceeding six inches and each layer shall be thoroughly compacted.
      (4)   Trenching. Drainage shall be constructed as per the plat for the
proposed work. The Planning Commission Engineer may approve field changes from
the plat; however, record (“as- built”) plans must then be furnished to the
Planning Commission Engineer and the Planning Commission. Trenches for sewers
shall be excavated to a minimum depth of three inches below the outside
diameter of the pipe if in solid rock and properly back-filled before the pipe
is installed. Trenches not in solid rock shall be excavated to a uniform grade.
During the trenching operations if unsuitable material is found it shall be
removed to a sufficient depth and back-filled in layers of not more than six
inches. Each layer of the back-filled material shall be compacted. After the
trenching has been completed, the pipe shall be laid to a uniform grade and
back-filled in layers not exceeding six inches in depth and thoroughly
compacted by mechanical or hand methods.
      (5)   Retention structures. Where required to be included in the
subdivision design, retention and detention basins shall be provided by the
developer. The Planning Commission Engineer shall approve all designs for such
facilities. Such facilities shall be designed so that no standing water will
remain in the basin during dry weather, unless a permanent pond is to be
constructed of sufficient size that the standing water will not stagnate and
present health hazards. In certain cases, other non-basin retention/detention
techniques such as underground vault storage may be utilized when approved by
the Planning Commission.
(Prior Code, § 74.840) (Ord. passed 3- -1995; Ord. passed 10- -2005; Ord. 2018-
03, passed 2-14-2018; Ord. passed 1- -2020)
§ 153.130 STORM WATER DRAINAGE.
   (A)   A drainage system shall be designed and constructed by the subdivider
to provide for the proper drainage of the surface water of the subdivision and
the drainage area of which it is a part.
   (B)   The following requirements and methods shall be followed.
      (1)   Storm drainage.   
         (a)   A subdivision plat shall not be considered for preliminary
approval until the subdivider shall submit to the Planning Commission a written
report by a professional engineer as to the ability of existing watercourse
channels, storm sewers, culverts, and other improvements pertaining to drainage
or flood control within the subdivision, to handle the additional run-off for
the storms noted below which would be generated by the planned future
development of the land within the area according to long range plan. There
shall be no increase in the rate of run-off as a result of new construction.
         (b)   Additional information shall be submitted to adequately indicate
that provision has been made for disposal of surface water without any damage
to the developed or undeveloped land downstream or below the proposed
subdivision. This report shall also include:
            1.   Estimates of the quantity of storm water entering the
subdivision naturally from areas outside the subdivision on each inlet;
            2.   Quantities of flow at each pick-up point (inlet);
            3.   Location, sizes and grades of required culverts, storm
drainage sewers and other required appurtenances. This shall be recorded on the
preliminary plan as well as the design calculation of the following factors for
each culvert or channel: drainage area discharge-Q; amount of D.A.
imperviousness-C; intensity of rainfall-I; time concentration-TC; amount of
head-H; length of runoff-L; and D.A. in acres-A; and the design-Q for each
structure, and the resulting velocity; and
            4.   The basic standard for design of drainage systems for
subdivisions will be to keep run-off characteristics after development at the
same level as existed prior to development. No excess stormwater runoff is
permitted to occur. To achieve these objectives, storm water retention and/or
detention systems will be required in most cases. The analysis used for the
design of the required retention/detention systems shall consider impact on
downstream properties for a ten-year/24-hour storm, a 25-year/24-hour storm,
and a 100-year/24-hour storm. Likewise, where conditions and engineering
calculations indicate benefit would not occur, storm drainage detention
facilities may be deleted from the development requirements in favor of channel
improvements, off-site improvements to improve flow, or other alternative
wherein the alternate is less burdensome to the developer than providing
detention facilities. In computing storm water run-off and designing the
drainage system, the developer’s engineer shall use standard engineering
practice which shall be approved by the Planning Commission Engineer.
      (2)   Drainage requirements (grading).
         (a)   No final grading or sidewalk or pavement construction or
installation of utilities shall be permitted in any proposed street until the
preliminary plan has been approved by the Planning Commission.
         (b)   The subdivider shall grade each subdivision in order to
establish street, block, and lot grades in proper relation to each other and to
topography as follows.
            1.   Street grading plan. A grading plat shall be prepared for the
streets along with street improvement details. The grading of the roadway shall
extend the full width of the right-of-way. Planting strips shall be graded at a
gradient of not less than 2% upward from the curb to the sidewalk or property
line.
            2.   Lot grading. Lots shall be graded so that water drains away
from each building at a minimum grade of 2%. Surface drainage swales shall meet
the standards and specifications of the county’s Conservation District and
shall be designed so that the surface water will drain into a driveway, street
gutter, storm sewer, drain inlet, or natural drainage way. Contractors shall
return lots to approved grade if disturbed during building construction.
            3.   Top soil. If upgrading results in the stripping of top soil,
the top soil shall not be removed from the site or used as spoil and shall be
uniformly spread over the lots as grading is finished.
            4.   Trees. As many trees as can be reasonably utilized in the
final development plan shall be retained and the grading adjusted to the
existing grade of the trees where practicable.
      (3)   Drainage system requirements.
         (a)   The design criteria for storm drainage systems shall be based on
information from the Manual of Instruction for Drainage Design prepared by the
state’s Department of Highways.
         (b)   Culverts shall be designed for 50-year storm frequency unless
the culvert is a part of the stormwater retention/detention system. Storm
sewers in all streets shall be designed for a 25-year storm frequency.
         (c)   For curbs and gutters, curb and gutter inlets and open channels
an intensity of four inches per hour shall be used in all computations.
         (d)   A minimum of “TC” of eight minutes shall be used as well as the
“C” valve shall be based on the planned future development of the watershed
area according to the Comprehensive Plan.
      (4)   Road drainage system.
         (a)   All roadways shall be provided with an adequate storm drainage
system.
         (b)   The road storm sewer system shall serve as the primary drainage
system and shall be designed to carry roadway, adjacent land, and building
storm water drainage. No storm water shall be permitted to be run into the
sanitary sewer system within the proposed subdivision. Since the road drainage
is a major contributing factor to excess surface runoff, it must be routed
through the storm water retention facilities.
         (c)   Curb drainage box inlets shall be type A or B (unless otherwise
ap proved by the Commission) and provided at intervals along roadways. Inlet
spacing shall be adequate to limit the spread of water to two feet into the
roadway. Storm drain inlets will be placed so that crosswalks will not be
flooded during the design storm intensity of four inches per hour.
      (5)   Off-road drainage systems. The design of the off-road drainage
system shall include the watershed affecting the subdivision and shall be
extended to a watercourse or ditch adequate to receive the storm drainage.
         (a)   When the drainage system is outside of the road right-of-way,
the subdivider shall make provisions for dedicating an easement to provide for
the future maintenance of said system.
         (b)   If a watercourse or ditch is left open it may be required to be
protected by a fence as determined by the Planning Commission. The watercourse
or ditch easement shall be wide enough to contain said ditch slope with ample
clearance for the operation of maintenance equipment. The side slopes of the
ditch shall not be greater than three to one.
      (6)   Drainage easement. Easements for drainage purposes shall be a
minimum of 20 feet in width. Where the watercourse is large, easement widths
shall be increased as determined by the Planning Commission. Where watercourses
cross platted lots diagonally, the subdivider shall straighten such courses
where practicable and shall substantially follow sub-lot lines. Easements shall
be shown on the record plat and shall cover all existing or reconstructed
watercourses.
      (7)   Protection of drainage system.
         (a)   The subdivider shall adequately protect all ditches to the
satisfaction of the Planning Commission. Ditches and open channels shall be
seeded, sodded, or paved depending on grades (slopes) and types of soils.
         (b)   As a general rule, ditches and channels with grades up to 1%
shall be seeded, with grades from 1% to 4% shall be sodded and with grades over
4% shall be paved. Paving operations shall be in compliance with the state’s
Department of Highways, Division of Design, Guidance Manual issued by the
state’s Department of Highways. Seeding and sodding operations shall be in
accordance with the recommendations of the county’s Conservation District.
      (8)   Material specifications. Material and construction specifications
for all drainage projects (i.e., pipe, tile, seed, sod) shall be in compliance
with the “Standard Specifications for Road and Bridge Construction” issued by
the state’s Department of Highways.
(Prior Code, § 74.850) (Ord. passed 3- -1995; Ord. passed 10- -2005; Ord. 2018-
03, passed 2-14-2018; Ord. passed 1- -2020)
§ 153.131 PLANS REQUIRED FOR THE CONTROL OF EROSION AND SEDIMENTATION.
   (A)   In the event that any developer shall intend to make changes in the
contour of any land proposed to be subdivided, developed, or changed in use by
grading, excavating or the removal or destruction of the natural topsoil,
trees, or other vegetative covering thereon the same shall only be accomplished
after the owner of said land or his or her agent has submitted to the Planning
Commission for approval a plan for erosion and sedimentation control. No
topsoil or other construction products will be allowed to wash from the site
under development onto adjacent roadways or public or private property (see
Appendix E).
   (B)   Such plans shall contain adequate measures for control of erosion and
siltation where necessary, using the guidelines and policies contained herein
and in accordance with recommendations of the county’s Conservation District.
If recommendations are not incorporated into said plan, the person, firm, or
corporation or its agent who submitted said plans shall set forth in writing
the reason for not incorporating any of the recommendations of the county’s
Conservation District.
   (C)   The Planning Commission shall review these plans as submitted, and
shall take necessary steps to ensure compliance by the developer with these
plans as finally approved.
      (1)   Requirements.
         (a)   Two sets of plans for the control of erosion and sedimentation
shall be submitted to the Planning Commission at the time the final plat
drawings are submitted.
         (b)   Measures to be taken to control erosion and sedimentation shall
be described and provided for in the construction agreement and the estimated
cost of accomplishing such measures shall be covered in the performance
guarantee provisions of these regulations. In addition, the developer shall be
required to provide a cash escrow guarantee in an amount determined by the
Planning Commission which would ensure the city that emergency measures could
be taken at the developer’s expense, if he or she did not initiate corrective
action determined to be needed by the Planning Commission.
         (c)   At the building permit application site, a review will be
conducted to ensure conformance with the plan as approved.
         (d)   During the planning phase, technical conservation planning
assistance may be furnished, if necessary, by the Planning Commission, or by
the local representative of the Soil Conservation Service through the county’s
Conservation District. The Planning Commission shall enforce compliance with
the approved plans.
         (e)   The Planning Commission shall make a continuing review and
evaluation of the methods used and the overall effectiveness of the erosion and
sedimentation control program.
         (f)   All erosion control measures must meet the guidelines of the
county’s Conservation District.
      (2)   Suggested control measures. The following control measures should
be used for an effective erosion and sediment control plan.
         (a)   The smallest practical area of land should be exposed at any one
time during development.
         (b)   When land is exposed during development, the exposure should be
kept to the shortest practical period of time.
         (c)   Where necessary, temporary vegetation, erosion fencing, and/or
mulching should be used to protect areas exposed during development.
         (d)   Sediment basins (debris basins, desilting basins, or silt traps)
should be installed and maintained to remove sediment from run-off waters from
land undergoing development.
         (e)   Provisions should be made to effectively accommodate the
increased runoff caused by changed sod and surface conditions during and after
development.
         (f)   The permanent final vegetation and structures should be
installed as soon as practical in the development.
         (g)   The development plan should be fitted to the topography and
soils so as to create the least erosion potential.
         (h)   Wherever feasible, natural vegetation should be retained and
protected.
      (3)   Erosion plan. The report shall include but not be restricted to the
following provisions:
         (a)   The areas of said premises that may be exposed at any one time;
         (b)   The type of temporary vegetation and/or mulching that will be
used to protect exposed areas of said described premises during the
construction of any improvements thereon, or changes being made in the contours
thereof, or in removal or destruction of topsoil, trees, and other vegetation
located thereon;
         (c)   The locations, construction, and maintenance of sediment basins
or other control measures on said premises;
         (d)   The type of permanent and final vegetation and water control
structures or features (e.g., swales, diversions) that should be planted and
installed on the said described premises and the time within such vegetation
and structures are to be planted and installed;
         (e)   Description of the type of soil comprising the described
premises and physical properties of each type; and
         (f)   Description of the soil comprising the area immediately adjacent
and within the general vicinity of the described premises, and physical
properties thereof.
      (4)   Construction inspections.
         (a)   Responsible official. The Planning Commission shall be
responsible for the inspection of all improvements. The Planning Commission
Engineer shall make a minimum of three inspections to ensure compliance with
these regulations not under the jurisdiction of any conflicting agency or
utility. The Commission shall adopt a fee schedule to cover the cost of said
inspections.
         (b)   Authority and duties of inspectors. Inspectors employed by the
Planning Commission shall be authorized to inspect all work done and all
materials furnished. Such inspection may extend to all or any part of the work
and to the preparation, fabrication, or manufacture of the materials to be
used. The inspector shall not be authorized to revoke, alter, or waive any
requirements or the specifications of plans. He or she shall be authorized to
call the attention of the contractor to any failure of the work or materials to
conform to the specifications and contract. He or she shall have the authority
to reject materials which do not meet specification requirements or suspend the
portion of the work involved until any question at issue can be referred to and
decided by the Planning Commission.
         (c)   Final inspections. Upon completion of all the improvements, the
subdivider shall request, in writing, a final inspection by the Planning
Commission Engineer. The Planning Commission shall make a final inspection of
streets, sidewalks, curbs and gutters, storm sewers, and other improvements
required in these regulations, and copies of final inspections of other
agencies.
(Prior Code, § 74.860) (Ord. passed 3- -1995; Ord. passed 10- -2005; Ord. 2018-
03, passed 2-14-2018; Ord. passed 1- -2020)
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 153.145 PURPOSE.
   These subdivision regulations are designed to encourage the development of
sound, healthful, and economically stable residential, commercial, industrial,
and public areas; to provide for safe, convenient, and efficient traffic
circulation; to coordinate land developments in order to ensure that our future
physical growth shall be orderly, efficient, and conducive to the minimum
outlay of public and private expenditures in providing services to new growth
areas; to minimize fire hazards and to provide for heat and air in habitable
structures, and to provide for the overall harmonious development of our entire
community.
(Prior Code, § 74.900) (Ord. passed 3- -1995; Ord. passed 10- -2005; Ord. 2018-
03, passed 2-14-2018; Ord. passed 1- -2020)
§ 153.146 VARIANCES.
   These land subdivision regulations are adopted only as minimum requirements,
and all developers should consider developing their subdivisions at higher
standards. Thus, the developer is encouraged to go beyond the standards of
these regulations and the Commission may require standards above the minimum
contained herein whenever it feels that public health, safety, or welfare
purposes justify such increases. The Commission also may reduce or otherwise
vary the requirements of these regulations whenever it encounters the
situations described below. In granting such variances, the Commission may
attach and require whatever conditions it feels are necessary to secure the
basic objectives of the varied regulations. Any variances granted by the
Commission shall be noted in its official minutes along with reasons which
justified the granting of the variance.
   (A)   Exceptional and undue hardship. Where the Commission finds that strict
compliance with these regulations would create an undue hardship because of
exceptional and unique topographic or other physical conditions encountered on
the particular land, the Commission may modify these regulations to the extent
necessary to relieve the undue hardship; provided, however, that such resulting
variances may be granted without detriment to the public good, and without
impairing the desirable general development of the neighborhood and the
community as proposed in the Comprehensive Plan. If such modification is
determined to be a substantial departure horn these regulations, a public
hearing may be required prior to Planning Commission action.
   (B)   Design innovation and large scale development. These regulations may
be modified by the Commission in the case of plans for complete neighborhoods
or other design innovations which, in the Commission’s opinion, still achieve
the basic objectives of these regulations. The Commission shall require those
conditions, such as covenants or other legal provisions, which it feels are
necessary to assure conformity to, and achievement of, the proposed subdivision
plat.
   (C)   Approval of dimensional variances by Planning Commission. In
conjunction with the review and approval of subdivision plans/plats, the
Planning Commission is authorized by KRS Chapter 100 to grant dimensional
variances upon finding that:
      (1)   The variance is a result of customary design standards or
innovative design which, in the Commission’s opinion, still achieve the basic
objectives of the zoning laws and subdivision regulations; or
      (2)   Strict compliance with the regulations would create an undue
hardship because of exceptional and unique topographic or other physical
conditions encountered upon the particular land, and the resulting variance may
be granted without detriment to the public good.
(Prior Code, § 74.910) (Ord. passed 3- -1995; Ord. passed 10- -2005; Ord. 2018-
03, passed 2-14-2018; Ord. passed 1- -2020)
§ 153.147 AMENDMENTS.
   The Commission may, from time to time, revise or modify or amend these
regulations by action taken at a regularly scheduled meeting after the required
notice, and holding, of a public hearing.
(Prior Code, § 74.920) (Ord. passed 3- -1995; Ord. passed 10- -2005; Ord. 2018-
03, passed 2-14-2018; Ord. passed 1- -2020)
§ 153.148 VIOLATIONS.
   The following violations and penalties are hereby cited from KRS Chapter 100
and incorporated herein.
   (A)   No subdivision of land before approval. No person or his or her agent
shall subdivide any land before securing the Planning Commission’s approval of
a plat designating the areas to be sold.
   (B)   No selling of land before approval. No subdivider owning land
composing a subdivision, or his or her agent, shall transfer or agree to sell
any lot or parcel of land located within such a subdivision by reference to, or
by exhibition, or by any other use of a plat of such subdivision, before such
plat has been approved by the Commission. Any such instrument of transfer,
sale, or contract shall be void and shall not be subject to be recorded, but
all rights of such purchaser to damages are hereby preserved.
   (C)   Metes and bounds descriptions no exception. The description of such
lot or parcel by metes and bounds in any contract or instrument of transfer or
other document used in the process of selling or transferring same shall not
exempt the person attempting to transfer from the penalties provided, or
deprive the purchaser of any rights or remedies he or she may otherwise have.
   (D)   Injunctions. The City of Winchester, the county, or the Planning
Commission may bring action in the circuit court to prevent, correct, or abate
the unlawful sale or use of land in violation of these regulations.
(Prior Code, § 74.930) (Ord. passed 3- -1995; Ord. passed 10- -2005; Ord. 2018-
03, passed 2-14-2018; Ord. passed 1- -2020) Penalty, see §
153.999
ADDRESSING PROPERTIES
§ 153.160 NUMBERING REQUIREMENT.
   (A)   All properties within the county shall be numbered for the purposes of
public safety, taxation, and provision of services.
   (B)   All principal buildings and leasable/salable portions of said
buildings which have separate and direct outside entrances shall have the site
number permanently and prominently displayed, at the expense of the owners or
occupants thereof, so as to be clearly visible and identifiable at all times
during daylight hours to persons in vehicles traveling in both directions of
the street upon which the structure is located.
   (C)   The property number shall be a minimum of three inches in height and
shall be affixed to the structure at a point at least three feet above ground
level. If the structure is not visible from the public or private right-of-way
upon which the structure is located, the site number may also be displayed in
such a manner that satisfies the visibility requirements in division (B) above.
Notwithstanding the above, where more than one principal building is located
upon a property and where the site number is clearly displayed at the street
entrance to the property, each principal building shall not be required to
display the site number so long as each building is clearly identified by a
building number or letter.
   (D)   Structures with multiple units shall have each major doorway labeled
with a range of numbers, letters, or other authorized unit designations when
said doorway leads to more than one leasable/salable unit of a building. Such
designations shall be used to distinguish individual suites, units, rooms, or
apartments within the same building or structure and served by a single door.
No more than five characters may be used in such unit designations. Such
designations shall contain only letters or numbers. If abbreviations are used,
they must follow the United States Postal Service’s Standards for Secondary
Address Unit Designators.
   (E)   The Winchester/Clark County Planning and Community Development
Department, with assistance from the Director of the Winchester/Clark County
Public Safety Answering Point (PSAP), on existing roadways, shall solely be
authorized to assign or cause to be assigned a property number, site number,
and/or a building number where appropriate so as to ensure no duplication of
numbers or street names. The Winchester/Clark County Planning and Community
Development Department, city Clerk, and County Clerk shall maintain a street
index file containing the official list of valid street names.
   (F)   No private access easement shall be named without the prior approval
of the Winchester/Clark County Planning Commission. All private access
easements that are named with the approval of the Winchester/Clark County
Planning Commission shall have a regulation street sign, purchased and erected
at the expense of the owners, placed at each intersection of the named easement
and any other named easement or street.
(Ord. 2014-7, passed 5-28-2014)
§ 153.161 NUMBERING REGULATIONS.
   (A)   All addresses must contain a number. No number may contain more than
five digits. Only whole numbers may be used in addresses. All addresses on a
street shall have sequential numbers.
   (B)   All addresses must contain a street name. Such names may contain a
maximum of 20 letters; however, such names shall not contain fewer than two
letters. The following are prohibited in new street names:
      (1)   Numerical digits or numerical names;
      (2)   Leading single letter phrases;
      (3)   Confusing, obscene, or irregularly spelled words;
      (4)   Duplicate or closely approximate names of other streets; and
      (5)   Use of the words “service”, “street”, “drive”, or “avenue”.
   (C)   An address shall not contain a duplication of the type of street
within its name (i.e., Veterans Park PK). When an address contains the names of
two types of streets, the first type becomes part of the street name and second
type must be abbreviated.
   (D)   Streets having the same name, but designated as different types of
streets, are acceptable only when the streets are contiguous and have unique
number sequences.
   (E)   Structures must have frontage or an entrance to the street on which
their address is assigned.
   (F)   Separate streets which are capable of ultimate connection shall have
the same name until it is determined that their connection will not likely
occur. Once the roadways are deemed unconnectable, the addresses shall be
changed to assign unique street names for all affected segments.
(Ord. 2014-7, passed 5-28-2014)
§ 153.162 RENUMBERING ADDRESSES.
   (A)   Renumbering of properties and assignment of new street names shall be
the task of the Director of the Winchester/Clark County PSAP. The renumbering
of addresses and assignment or renaming of street names shall be for the
purposes of public safety.
   (B)   Nothing in this section shall prohibit either the Board of
Commissioners or the Fiscal Court from renumbering properties or naming/
renaming streets or hearing appeals of readdressing should either body deem it
in the public interest to do so, independent of any staff recommendation,
within their respective areas of responsibility identified in this subchapter.
   (C)   The Director of the Winchester/Clark County PSAP shall notify the
residents and property owners of the intent to renumber properties in person or
by certified letter. The property owner may appeal to the County Fiscal Court
or the City of Winchester Board of Commissioners. The property owner shall have
30 days from the proof of service date of the letter of notification to request
an appeal of the renumbering action. The County Fiscal Court and Winchester
City Commission shall notify the Director of the Winchester/Clark County PSAP
of any action taken to appeal the address change. If the property owner does
not appeal within the 30-day period, then the addresses will be renumbered as
directed by the Director of the Winchester/Clark County PSAP.
   (D)   Upon implementation of an address change, notification will be sent to
the residents, property owners, and the following agencies (depending on
jurisdiction) informing them of the address change:
      (1)   City of Winchester;
      (2)   County Fiscal Court;
      (3)   Clark County PVA;
      (4)   Clark County Sheriff;
      (5)   Winchester Police Department;
      (6)   Winchester Fire-EMS;
      (7)   Clark County Fire Department;
      (8)   Winchester Postmaster;
      (9)   Winchester/Clark County Planning and Community Development
Department;
      (10)   Winchester Municipal Utilities;
      (11)   AT&T;
      (12)   Kentucky Utilities;
      (13)   Kentucky American Water;
      (14)   East Clark Water District; and
      (15)   Clark Energy Cooperative.
(Ord. 2014-7, passed 5-28-2014)
§ 153.163 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   The codes or law enforcement personnel for the city and county
governments shall have the power to require the owner or occupant of any
business or residential structure within the county to affix and maintain
building, site, and/or property numbers as required in this subchapter.
   (B)   Any owner or occupant of a business or residential structure who, upon
being notified by the code enforcement personnel of the city and county
governments to affix a number upon a structure or other device, shall fail to
do so within five days of notification, shall be subject to a fine of $25 for
each day thereafter until he or she complies with the order of the code
enforcement personnel.
   (C)   Any person who unlawfully defaces, moves, removes, or causes to be
moved or removed any building, site, or property number affixed upon a
structure or other device such as a street sign in such a way that it is not
clearly visible and identifiable at all times during daylight hours, shall be
subject to a fine of $50 for each offense.
   (D)   Any person who places or causes to be placed any sign bearing a name
not approved by the Winchester/Clark County Planning Commission upon any
private access easement shall be subject to a fine of $100 plus a fine of $100
for each day the sign remains after being given notice by the code enforcement
personnel for the city and county governments to remove such sign.
(Ord. 2014-7, passed 5-28-2014)
§ 153.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person or entity who violates any of the provisions of KRS Chapter
100 or any of the regulations adopted pursuant thereunder for which no other
penalty is provided, shall upon conviction be fined not less than ten but no
more than $500 for each conviction. Each day of violation shall constitute a
separate offense.
   (B)   Any person, owner or agent who violates this chapter shall, upon
conviction, be fined not less than $100 nor more than $500 for each lot or
parcel which was the subject of sale or transfer, or a contract for sale or
transfer.
   (C)   Violations of §§
153.160 to
153.163 shall be subject to penalties under the jurisdiction of the
Administrative Hearing Board (City of Winchester, Kentucky Code of Ordinances,
Article IV and Clark County, Kentucky Ordinance 2011-07).
(Prior Code, § 74.930) (Ord. passed 3- -1995; Ord. passed 10- -2005; Ord. 2014-
7, passed 5-28-2014 Ord. 2018-03, passed 2-14-2018; Ord. passed 1- -2020)
APPENDIX A: EXAMPLES
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/cf75951e4e99738f740e9342fd403c07c11a6c55/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1800.png]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/cf75951e4e99738f740e9342fd403c07c11a6c55/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1802.png]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/cf75951e4e99738f740e9342fd403c07c11a6c55/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1804.png]
 
(Ord. passed 3- - 1995; Ord. passed 10- -2005; Ord. 2018- 03, passed 2-14-2018;
Ord. passed 1- - 2020)
APPENDIX B: FORMS
Form 1
PRELIMINARY PLAN CHECKLIST
Date____________________________   Application Number_____ ____________________
Subdivision____________________________________________________________________
The following item(s) (does, does not) conform with the requirements of the
Winchester/Clark County Subdivision Regulations. All preliminary development
plans shall conform with the requirements of the Winchester/Clark County
Subdivision Regulations. All preliminary plans shall conform with the
requirements of the Winchester/Clark County Subdivision Regulations.
   Does   Does Not   Item
1.   _____   _____      Name of subdivision (no duplication permitted)
2.   _____   _____      Scale of 1" = 50' or less
3.   _____   ____      Date of preparation, north arrow, written scale
4.   _____   _____      Names of adjacent subdivisions and owners
5.   _____   _____      Zoning classification of all major parcels and proposed
changes
6.   _____   _____      Topography at two-foot intervals
7.   _____   _____      Location, width, and names of existing streets, right-
of-ways, easements
8.   _____   _____      Location of existing utilities including sewers, water
lines, and communication lines or poles
9.   _____   _____      Layout, names and widths of proposed streets or
easements and proper dedications
10.   _____   _____      Layout and approximate dimensions of all lots
11.   _____   _____      Building setback lines
12.   _____   _____      Survey monuments of adjacent properties
13.   _____   _____      Proposed use of lots
14.   _____   _____      Sewage treatment and percolation test results
15.   _____   _____      Adequate preliminary improvement plans
16.   _____   _____      Required certifications
17.   _____   _____      Stormwater study and drainage calculations
18.   _____   _____      Design based on CBR test results for every 500 lf oft.
19.   _____   _____      Type A or B drainage box inlets provided
Date____ ________________________   
Title of Position___________________
________________________________
Signature
 
Form 2
FINAL PLAT CHECKLIST
Date____________________________   Application
Number____________________________
Subdivision____________________________________________________________________
The following item(s) (does, does not) conform with the requirements of the
Winchester/Clark County Subdivision Regulations. All final development plans
shall conform with the requirements of the Winchester/Clark County Subdivision
Regulations. All final plats shall conform with the requirements of the
Winchester/Clark County Subdivision Regulations.
   Does   Does Not   Item
1.   _____   _____      Submitted within 12 months of preliminary approval
2.   _____   _____      Conforms to preliminary plan and incorporates suggested
changes
3.   _____   _____      Name of subdivision
4.   _____   _____      Written scale, date and north arrow
5.   _____   _____      Property identification
6.   _____   _____      Name and address of owner, surveyor, and engineer
7.   _____   _____      Accurate survey data-seconds, lineal dimensions to
hundredths of feet; radii internal angles, points of curvature; tangent
bearing; lengths of arcs; lengths of cords
8.   _____   _____      Closure
9.   _____   _____      Bearings and distances to permanent monuments
10.   _____   _____      Lot numbers, dimensions and addresses
11.   _____   _____      Location and description of monuments
12.   _____   _____      Building setback lines
13.   _____   _____      Final deed restriction
14.   _____   _____      Required final certifications
15.   _____   _____      Special notes
16.   _____   _____      Acreage on plat
17.   _____   _____      Thirty-foot dedicated right-of-way
18.   _____   _____      All proposed and existing roadway entrances indicated
and certification that proposed entrance(s) have been approved by the agency
having jurisdiction
19.   _____   _____      Existing improvements, structures and utilities
20.   _____   _____      Health Department approval
21.   _____   _____      Flood plain elevation or appropriate notation
22.   _____   _____      Proof roll test
23.   _____   _____      Cluster worksheet (for ag. Divisions> 60 acres or
eight tracts)
Date____________________________
Title of Position___________________
________________________________
Signature
 
Form 3
TECHNICAL DESIGN AND IMPROVEMENT CHECKLIST
The following item(s) (does, does not) conform with or does not apply (N.A.) to
the requirements of the Winchester/Clark County Subdivision Regulations. Those
items not conforming are explained on the final page:
Does   Does Not   N.A. Item
   General
1.   _____   _____   _____   Conformance with major street plan
2.   _____   _____   _____   Conformance with zoning regulations
3.    _____   _____   _____   No flood hazards
4.    _____   _____   _____   Acceptable natural drainage and erosion control
5.    _____   _____   _____   Steep slopes not limiting factor
6.    _____   _____   _____   Large trees and other significant natural
features
7.    _____   _____   _____   Areas of historical or cultural significance
   Streets
8.    _____   _____   _____   Right-of-way widths
9.    _____   _____   _____   Pavement widths
10.   _____   _____   _____   Radius of curvature
11.   _____   _____   _____   Horizontal visibility
12.   _____   _____   _____   Vertical alignment and visibility
13.   _____   _____   _____   Grades
14.   _____   _____   _____   Cul-de-sacs
15.   _____   _____   _____   Turn-around radius - ROW - and pavement
16.   _____   _____   _____   Dead-end streets
17.   _____   _____   _____   Dedication and addition of half streets
18.   _____   _____   _____   Marginal access streets, points of access, and
planting strips
19.   _____   _____   _____   Alleys
20.   _____   _____   _____   Alignment of intersections
21.   _____   _____   _____   Spacing of intersection relative to different
road classifications
22.   _____   _____   _____   Avoidance of multiple intersections
23.   _____   _____   _____   Avoidance of 4-way intersections
24.   _____   _____   _____   Pavement and ROW of intersections
25.   _____   _____   _____   Streets for commercial subdivisions
26.   _____   _____   _____   Repair of pavement
27.   _____   _____   _____   Streets for industrial subdivisions
28.   _____   _____   _____   Crosswalks
29.   _____   _____   _____   Street monuments
30.   _____   _____   _____   Subgrade
31.   _____   _____   _____   Base course
32.   _____   _____   _____   Surface course
33.   _____   _____   _____   Curbs and gutters
34.   _____   _____   _____   Bridges
35.   _____   _____   _____   Sidewalks
36.   _____   _____   _____   Street names and numbers, signs
   Lots
37.   _____   _____   _____   Size
38.   _____   _____   _____   Setback lines
39.   _____   _____   _____   Corner lot size
40.   _____   _____   _____   Avoidance of double frontage lots
41.   _____   _____   _____   Driveway culverts and grade
42.   _____   _____   _____   Monuments
43.   _____   _____   _____   Grading plan
   Others
44.   _____   _____   _____   Parks and open spaces
45.   _____   _____   _____   Type of water supply
46.   _____   _____   _____   Test wells
47.   _____   _____   _____   Type of sewage treatment
48.   _____   _____   _____   Percolation test results
49.   _____   _____   _____   Storm drainage system type
50.   _____   _____   _____   Manholes
51.   _____   _____   _____   Catch basins
52.   _____   _____   _____   Headwalls
53.   _____   _____   _____   Sufficient easements for utilities or open
drainage
54.   _____   _____   _____   Other utilities
55.   _____   _____   _____   Underground utilities
Date____________________________
Title____________________________
________________________________
Signature
 
Form 4
APPLICATION FOR PLAT APPROVAL
   Winchester/Clark County
   Planning Commission
   Winchester, Kentucky
Date                                            Application
No._                 
( )   Preliminary Plat
( )   Final Record Plat
( )    Minor Subdivision Plat
1.   Name of Applicant                               
   Address                                      
   Phone_                                        
2.   Name of Surveyor or Engineer                      
   Address_                                     
   Phone                                         
3.   Name of Subdivision                            
4.   Present Zoning District                            
5.   Number of Lots                                   
6.   Total Area of Parcel                               
**********************************************************************************
   For Official Use
Date Received                                             
Date of Planning Commission Action                                            
Plat Fee $                 
( )   Approved
( )   Disapproved Additional Comments:
                                                                                                            
                                                                                                                     
                                                                                                                   
                                                                                                                  
   For Official Use
   COUNTY BOARD OF HEALTH
Date Received       
Action             
Comments
                                                                                                            
                                                                                                                     
                                                                                                                   
                                                                                                                  
Signature                            
***********************************************************************************
   PLANNING COMMISSION ENGINEER
Date Received             
Action                   
Comments
                                                                                                            
                                                                                                                     
                                                                                                                   
                                                                                                                  
Signature                            
***********************************************************************************
   PLANNING COMMISSION
Date Received             
Action                   
Fee             Paid $         
Comments
                                                                                                            
                                                                                                                     
                                                                                                                   
                                                                                                                  
Signature                            
Note: This form must be submitted to the County Auditor for transfer and the
County Recorder for recording.
(Ord. passed 3- -1995; Ord. passed 10- -2005; Ord. 2018-03, passed 2-14-2018;
Ord. passed 1- -2020)
APPENDIX C: PAVEMENT DESIGNS HOLDING DGA THICKNESS CONSTANT AT 8"
Traffic Level
CBR A                       B                         C
    8 in. DGA               8 in. DGA                 8 in. DGA
1   6.5 in. Asphalt Base    7.5 in. Asphalt Base      8.5 in. Asphalt Base
    1.5 in. Asphalt Surface 1.5 in. Asphalt Surface   1.5 in. Asphalt Surface
    Total Depth = 16"       Total Depth = 17"      Total Depth = 18"
    8 in. DGA               8 in. DGA                 8 in. DGA
2   5.5 in. Asphalt Base    6.5 in. Asphalt Base      7.5 in. Asphalt Base
    1.5 in. Asphalt Surface 1.5 in. Asphalt Surface   1.5 in. Asphalt Surface
    Total Depth = 15"       Total Depth = 16"      Total Depth = 17"
    8 in. DGA               8 in. DGA                 8 in. DGA
3   4.5 in. Asphalt Base    5 in. Asphalt Base        6.5 in. Asphalt Base
    1.5 in. Asphalt Surface 1.5 in. Asphalt Surface   1.5 in. Asphalt Surface
    Total Depth = 14"       Total Depth = 14.5"    Total Depth = 16"
    8 in. DGA               8 in. DGA                 8 in. DGA
4   3.5 in. Asphalt Base    4.5 in. Asphalt Base      5.5 in. Asphalt Base
    1.5 in. Asphalt Surface 1.5 in. Asphalt Surface   1.5 in. Asphalt Surface
    Total Depth = 13"       Total Depth = 14"      Total Depth = 15"
    8 in. DGA               8 in. DGA                 8 in. DGA
5   2.5 in. Asphalt Base    4 in. Asphalt Base        5 in. Asphalt Base
    1.5 in. Asphalt Surface 1.5 in. Asphalt Surface   1.5 in. Asphalt Surface
    Total Depth = 12"       Total Depth = 13.5"    Total Depth = 14.5"
*   All base depths are rounded up to the nearest one-half inch.
Traffic levels: A up to 400 adt, B up to 700 adt, C up to 1500 adt; where the
adt exceeds 1500, the engineer shall submit design criteria. Where multiple
CBR values are found the lowest value (higher number) shall be used.
 
(Ord. passed 3- -1995; Ord. passed 10- -2005; Ord. 2018-03, passed 2-14-2018;
Ord. passed 1- -2020)
APPENDIX D: GEODETIC CONTROL INFORMATION
1.   Geodetic Control
The City of Winchester will make available all Geodetic Control information to
be used for survey purposes. All coordinate values for these survey points
shall be in Latitude Longitude using the North American Datum (NAD83) with a
1997 HARN adjustment. All Points should be projected into Kentucky State Plane
System using the North American Datum (NAD83) with a 1997 HARN adjustment,
Kentucky North Zone, FIPS zone 1601. All measurements shall be in US Survey
Feet. The City’s Geodetic Control network can be accessed through the
Commonwealth of Kentucky National Geodetic Survey Advisor, see http://
nas.state.ky.us.
The surveyor or engineer preparing the plans shall tie the boundary into at
least two points of the above mentioned survey control network. The basis of
bearing for the plans must be in NAD83(1997) coordinate system.
If the Kentucky Geodetic Survey control points are not available and cannot be
provided to the surveyor or engineer the above mentioned requirements will be
waived. In these cases, the surveyor or engineer shall note and describe two
reference locations. These locations will be used to tie the survey or plan to
the state plane coordinate system.
2.   Data Format
In addition to as-built plans submitted in hard-copy format, a digital copy of
the file used to produce the hard-copy plans shall be provided in AutoCAD
Drawing Format (Version 14 or greater). In addition to the AutoCAD Drawing
file, a PostScript file will be created from the original software package,
containing a “reproduction” of the hard-copy as-built plans.
All digital files must be mapped to scale and submitted to the city on 3.5"
floppy disk or CDROM.
3.   Data Layer Requirements
In order to evaluate the accuracy and promote the efficient use of the data in
the City’s GIS, digital file layering has been standardized. The digital data
shall use the following layering scheme:
a.   Parcel Data
Layer Name Description
Layer Name Description
PARCEL     PLAT and Taxable Parcel Lines
PARCEL_TXT PLAT and Parcel Text (survey calls, ownership, etc.)
ROW        Plat & Condo ROW Lines
ROW_TXT    Right of Way text
Lot_Lines  Plat & Condo Lot Lines
LOT_TXT    Text for lot numbers and descriptions
Rd_Names   Road Names
Dimension  Plat & Condo Dimensions
 
b. Water System
Layer Name Description
Layer Name Description
WA_MAIN    Water Mains
W_MN_TXT   Water Main Text
WAT_MH     Water Manholes
W_MH_TXT   Water Manhole Text
WVALVE     Water Values/not with manholes
WVLV_TXT   Water Valve Text
WAT_HYD    Hydrants
W_HYD_TXT  Hydrant Text
WLAT       Water Service Laterals
WLAT TXT   Water Lateral Text
 
c.   Sanitary Sewer
Layer Name Description
Layer Name   Description
SAN_SMN      Sanitary Sewer Mains
SAIM_SMN_TXT Sanitary Sewer Mains Text
SAN_SFRC     Sanitary Force Mains
SAN_SFRC_TXT Sanitary Force Mains Text
SAN_SMH      Sanitary Manholes
SAN_SMH_TXT  Sanitary Sewer Manhole Text
SAN_SLAT     Sanitary Service Laterals
SAN_SLAT_TXT Sanitary Service Laterals Text
 
d.   Storm Sewer
Layer Name Description
Layer Name   Description
ST_SMAIN     Storm Sewer Mains
ST_SMAIN_TXT Storm Sewer Main Text
ST_SLAT      Storm Sewer feeder lines
ST_SLAT_TXT  Storm Sewer feeder line Text
RET_PND      Storm water storage facilities
RET__PND_TXT Storm water storage facility Text
ST_SMH       Storm Water manholes
ST_SMH_TXT   Storm Water manhole Text
ST_SINL      Storm Water Inlets
ST_SINL_TXT  Storm Water Inlet Text
ST_SCB       Storm Water Catch Basins
ST_SCB_TXT   Storm Water Catch Basin Text
ST_SHWLL     Storm Sewer head walls
ST SHWLL TXT Storm Sewer head wall Text
 
4.   Manually Prepared Plats
Survey data (for manually prepared plats) must be submitted in an ASCII text
file within a rigidly defined tabular format.
5.   Adjustments to these requirements
The City of Winchester may wave or adjust requirements specified herein, upon a
finding that the strict adherence of the requirements does not apply or is
contrary to the long-term maintenance of the GIS of the City of Winchester.
6.   Review of Digital Data
All digital data will be reviewed for the following criteria:
   1.   Correct layering
   2.   Closure of the geometry of the boundary
   3.   Verification that digital and hardcopy maps are consistent
   4.   Correct geographical position (i.e. correct coordinate values for final
submission
The Applicant will be given ten (10) working days from the day of notification
of errors to correct and resubmit the correct digital file prior to final
approval by the Winchester Clark County Planning Commission.
(Ord. passed 3- -1995; Ord. passed 10- -2005; Ord. 2018-03, passed 2-14-2018;
Ord. passed 1- -2020)
APPENDIX E: EROSION AND SEDIMENT CONTROL STANDARD DRAWINGS
 
(Ord. passed 3- -1995; Ord. passed 10- -2005; Ord. 2018-03, passed 2-14-2018;
Ord. passed 1- -2020)
APPENDIX F: LANDSCAPING AND TREE PLANTING STANDARDS
 
1-1   LANDSCAPING AND TREE PLANTING STANDARDS - The requirements for
landscaping, land use buffers and tree planting shall be as follows:
   1-1(a)   LANDSCAPE AND LAND USE BUFFERS - All land subdivision plans shall
conform to the requirements of Article 13 of the Zoning Ordinance.
   1-1(b)   STREET TREE PLANTINGS FOR RESIDENTIAL LOCAL AND COLLECTOR/
CONNECTOR STREETS - Street plantings shall be required on all new collector/
connector and local streets in all residential subdivisions in accordance with
the following provisions:
      1-1(b)(1)   TYPE AND NUMBER - Trees to be planted shall be of the
deciduous type, and shall be of a type of root growth pattern that minimizes
potential damage to street and utility facilities. A listing of approved trees
shall be included in the Planting Manual. Trees shall be required at the
standard of one tree per 45 feet of street frontage for large trees, 35 feet
for medium trees, and 25 feet for small trees, as determined by the Planning
Commission.
      1-1(b)(2)   LOCATION CRITERIA - Two options shall be permitted at the
developer’s discretion. The first option shall be to place the trees within a
planting easement with a minimum width of 5', to be located immediately
adjacent and parallel to the street right-of-way. The second option shall be to
plant the trees within the street right-of-way between the street curb and the
sidewalk in the area, commonly called the “utility strip.” The developer’s
choice shall be shown on the appropriate subdivision and development plans, and
shall be consistent on any given street. Only small trees may be planted in a
utility strip with a width of five feet or less. Medium trees may be planted in
a utility strip with a width of five and one-half feet or greater, and large
trees may be planted in a utility strip of seven feet or greater. No street
tree shall be located in the right-of-way within 50 feet of the street
intersection.
      1-1(b)(3)   PLATTING REQUIREMENT - The cross-section to be utilized and
tree species shall be determined at the time of Commission action on the
preliminary subdivision plan, and shall also be reflected on the final
subdivision plan. Tree species shall be consistent for any given street, and at
least one alternative species of the same genus shall be specified. The final
plan will also indicate by symbol the number of trees required on each lot,
based upon Section 1-1(b)(1) above, and their general location. The final
subdivision plan shall also contain a note stating that the street trees
required herein, either within the right-of-way or designated easement, shall
be maintained by the property owner in accordance with Section 1-1(b)(5) herein
below. A note stating that no tree may be removed without the approval of the
Planning Office shall also appear on the final plan. A fee in the amount of $10
per tree shown on the plat, payable to the Planning Commission, shall be paid
by the developer and collected by the Commission at the time of the recording
of the final record plan.
      1-1(b)(4)   PLANTING - It shall be the responsibility of the developer to
plant the street trees within one year from the date of the recording of the
final record plat or no later than occupancy of the residence, whichever occurs
last.
      1-1 (b)(5)   MAINTENANCE - The developer shall maintain all trees for a
period of one year from the date of their planting and shall replace any
required tree that dies within one year of its planting. Upon the expiration of
one year from the date of planting, the owner of the subject property shall be
responsible for the continued proper maintenance of all street trees and shall
keep them in a proper, neat, and orderly appearance free from refuse and debris
at all limes. Topping trees or the severe cutting of limbs to stubs larger than
three inches in diameter within the tree crown to such a degree as to remove
the normal canopy shall not be permitted for the maintenance of trees required
by this section.
      1-1 (c)   STREET PLANTINGS ON ARTERIAL STREETS - Sheet plantings shall be
required for any double frontage lot in any zone that adjoins an arterial
street not maintained by the state and which does not provide direct access to
the adjoining property.
      1-1(c)(1)   TYPE, NUMBER, AND LOCATION - A continuous 6' high hedge shall
be required with the same species to be used for the entire frontage of the
development. Where possible, the hedge should be planted in the right-of-way,
and 3' from the right-of-way fence. Trees should be planted in the right-of-way
with the exact location to be approved by the Building Inspector. All trees are
to be planted a minimum of 10' from the right-of-way fence. Where there is less
than 10' between the right-of-way fence and the sidewalk, or where there is no
sidewalk, less than 10' feet between the right-of-way fence and the curb line
of the arterial street, no trees are required. No street tree shall be located
in the right-of-way within 50 feet of the intersection. Trees shall be required
as described in Table Band the Plant Materials List in the Zoning Ordinance
shall be used to meet the minimum requirements set forth herein. Where, due to
site restrictions, the planting cannot be placed in the right-of-way, the
Commission may allow the landscaping to be placed on the adjacent property.
      1-1(c)(2)   PLATTING REQUIREMENT - The cross-section to be utilized and
tree species shall be determined at the time of Commission action on the
preliminary subdivision plan, and shall also be reflected on the final
subdivision plan. Tree species shall be consistent for any given development,
and at least one alternative species of the same genus shall be specified. The
final subdivision plan shall also contain a note stating that the arterial
street plantings required herein shall be maintained by the developer for one
year from the date of planting. Such maintenance shall include replacing
required plantings that die within the first year. After the first year, the
adjacent property owner shall maintain the plantings.
      1-1(c)(3)   COMPLETION OF THE ARTERIAL STREET PLANTINGS - The required
arterial street plantings shall be considered a public improvement and, as
such, shall be fully installed prior to Commission consideration of the final
record plan. The Commission may, however, permit the plan to be approved and
recorded prior to the completion of the plantings with the posting of a surety.
   TABLE B: TYPE, NUMBER AND LOCATION OF TREES LOCATION
   DESCRIPTION REQUIRED TREES
(a)   The elevation of the arterial is more than 10 ' above the elevation of
the adjacent property
(b)   The elevation of the arterial is not more than 10' above or is below the
elevation of the adjacent property
(c)   The intersection of a collector/connector street with the arterial
(d)   Culverts and other wet locations
(Ord. passed 3- -1995; Ord. passed 10- -2005; Ord. 2018-03, passed 2-14-2018;
Ord. passed 1- -2020)
CHAPTER 154: COUNTY DEVELOPMENT
Section
   
154.01    Joint City-County Comprehensive Plan adopted by reference
§ 154.01 JOINT CITY-COUNTY COMPREHENSIVE PLAN ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The amended Statement of Goals and Objectives of the Comprehensive Plan of
the Winchester-Clark County Planning Unit is hereby adopted by reference and
made a part of this code as if fully set forth herein.
(Prior Code, § 80.001) (Ord. 91-15, passed 1-8-1991; Ord. 97-6, passed 4-16-
1997)
CHAPTER 155: ZONING CODE
Section
General Provisions
   
155.001    Adoption
   
155.002    Title
   
155.003    Purpose
   
155.004    Conflict with other instruments
   
155.005    Application of regulations
   
155.006    Agricultural land use exceptions
   
155.007    Definitions
Zoning Map
   
155.020    Adoption of zoning maps
   
155.021    Maintenance of zoning maps and amendment records
   
155.022    Interpretation of zoning district boundaries
Administration
   
155.035    Enforcement Officer
   
155.036    Zoning permits
   
155.037    Certificates of occupancy
Nonconforming Structures and Uses
   
155.050    Nonconforming structures
   
155.051    Nonconforming uses
   
155.052    Nonconforming lots
   
155.053    Repairs and maintenance
Board of Zoning Adjustment
   
155.065    Appointment and organization
   
155.066    Power and duties
   
155.067    Procedure
Zoning Districts
   
155.080    Agricultural District (A-1)
   
155.081    Single-Family Residential (R-1A)
   
155.082    Single-Family Residential (R-1B)
   
155.083    Single-Family Residential (R-1C)
   
155.084    Single-Family Residential (R-1D)
   
155.085    Single-Family Residential (R-1E)
   
155.086    Two-Family Residential (R-2)
   
155.087    Multiple-Family Residential (R-3)
   
155.088    Multiple-Family Residential (R-4)
   
155.089    Residential (R-5)
   
155.090    Residential Townhouse (R-6)
   
155.091    Professional Office District (P-1)
   
155.092    Neighborhood Business District (B-1)
   
155.093    Downtown Business (B-2)
   
155.094    Highway Business District (B-3)
   
155.095    General Business District (B-4)
   
155.096    Light Industrial District (I-1)
   
155.097    Heavy Industrial District (I-2)
Special Zoning Districts
   
155.110    Mobile Home District
   
155.111    Planned Recreation District
   
155.112    Planned Development District
   
155.113    Hazardous Development District
   
155.114    Crossroads Community District
General Development Regulations
   
155.125    Coordination with subdivision regulations
   
155.126    Water supply and sewage disposal
   
155.127    Regulation of principal building
   
155.128    Planned Development project regulations
   
155.129    Classification of manufactured homes
   
155.130    Development plan
   
155.131    Rural Residential Cluster Development Regulations
   
155.132    Family farm homesite
   
155.133    Transfer of development rights (TDRs)
General Zoning District Regulations
   
155.145    Application of zone and district regulations
   
155.146    Yard requirements along less restricted zone boundary line
   
155.147    Conversion of dwellings
   
155.148    Location and height of accessory buildings
   
155.149    Traffic visibility across corner lots
   
155.150    Buildings in rear of principal building
   
155.151    Use and parking of recreational vehicles
   
155.152    Special yard provisions
   
155.153    Telecommunications towers
   
155.154    Buildings containing 50,000 square feet or more
Off-Street Parking and Loading
   
155.165    Parking requirements
   
155.166    Existing parking space
   
155.167    Required off-street parking space
   
155.168    Additional parking standards
Sign Regulations
   
155.180    Intent
   
155.181    Scope
   
155.182    Definitions
   
155.183    Signs exempt from permitting in all zones and districts
   
155.184    Permit requirements
   
155.185    Nonconforming signs
   
155.186    Illegal signs
   
155.187    General requirements
   
155.188    Prohibited signs in all zones
   
155.189    Signs requiring a conditional use permit in all zones
   
155.190    Signs permitted by specific zone
   
155.191    Advertising on interstate highways
   
155.192    Maintenance standards
Landscape and Land Use Buffers
   
155.205    Intent
   
155.206    Sites affected
   
155.207    Where landscape material is required
   
155.208    Landscape materials
   
155.209    Plan submission and approval
Amendments
   
155.220    Amendment procedure
Violations and Remedies
   
155.235    Remedies
   
155.236    Appeals
 
   
155.999    Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 155.001 ADOPTION.
   The by Board of Commissioners of the City of Winchester and ordered by the
County Fiscal Court hereby adopt the following provisions as the county’s
zoning code.
(Prior Code, § 1.1)
§ 155.002 TITLE.
   This order is entitled “Revised Zoning Ordinance, City of Winchester, and
Revised Zoning Order, Clark County, Kentucky”, and may be referred to as the
“zoning order”. The zoning maps referred to herein are entitled “Zoning Map,
City of Winchester,” and “Zoning Map, Clark County, Kentucky” and may together
be referred to as the “zoning map”. The zoning map is hereby made a part of
this chapter, and a certified copy of this zoning order is on file with the
County Clerk.
(Prior Code, § 1.2)
§ 155.003 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of the zoning order is to promote the general welfare by
establishing and regulating zoning districts throughout the City of Winchester
and the county for the specific purposes detailed in the Kentucky Revised
Statutes. In establishing the zoning districts, this order seeks to promote the
general welfare by designating sufficient space for all necessary uses of the
land, by protecting the permitted uses in each district from the undesirable
effects of conflicting uses, and by ensuring the stable value of all permitted
development. This order further seeks to promote the general welfare by
protecting the efficiency and encouraging the improvement of traffic
circulation and access to the land in all districts in order that daily travel
and commerce may increase in safety and may be carried forth with a minimum of
delay for the benefit of all activities and persons in Winchester and the
county.
(Prior Code, § 1.3)
§ 155.004 CONFLICT WITH OTHER INSTRUMENTS.
   In case of conflict between the zoning order or any part thereof and the
whole or part of any existing or future ordinance of the City of Winchester or
order of the county or the whole or part of any existing or future private
covenants or deeds, the most restrictive in each case shall apply.
(Prior Code, § 1.4)
§ 155.005 APPLICATION OF REGULATIONS.
   All existing and future structures and uses of premises within the City of
Winchester and the unincorporated area of the county shall conform with all
applicable provisions of the zoning order. Each zoning district is established
to permit only those uses specifically listed as permitted, except as provided
under the nonconforming provisions, and is intended for the protection of those
uses. No other uses are permitted except as provided elsewhere in this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 1.7)
§ 155.006 AGRICULTURAL LAND USE EXCEPTIONS.
   Notwithstanding any other provision of this chapter, land which is used
solely for agricultural, farming, dairying, stock-raising, or similar purposes
shall have no regulations imposed as to building permits, certificates of
occupancy, height, yard, location, or court requirements for agricultural
buildings except that setback may be required for the protection of existing
and proposed streets and highways and that all buildings or structures in a
designated floodway or floodplain or which tend to increase flood heights or
obstruct the flow of flood water may be fully regulated.
(Prior Code, § 1.8)
§ 155.007 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACCESSORY STRUCTURE OR USE. Any structure or use, including outdoor display
and/or tent for commercial purposes in conjunction with a principal permitted
use, other than the principal structure or use, directly incident to or
required for the enjoyment of the permitted use of any premises; also as
specifically designated under the zoning district regulations of this chapter.
A parked mobile home shall not be considered an accessory building unless
specifically permitted by the provisions of the this chapter. An accessory
building shall adhere to the maximum height requirement in the zoning district
for which it is located in. Full bathrooms and kitchens shall not be permitted,
an accessory building may contain a half bathroom containing a toilet and sink
only. A shower that is located outside and unenclosed may be permitted. The
total square footage of an accessory building within a residential zoning
district shall not exceed more than 900 square feet, unless a variance for a
larger structure is granted by the Board of Adjustments. Accessory buildings
cannot be used for commercial purposes unless specifically permitted by the
provisions of this chapter, and shall be located towards the side and/or rear
of the primary structure and at least five and a half feet from the side and
rear property lines. The maximum lot coverage as found in the dimension and
area requirements for each zoning district shall be adhered to. No accessory
building shall be rented for any purpose and shall not be used as dwelling
units.
   AGRICULTURAL STRUCTURE. Any structure or building accessory to the principal
agricultural use of the land. Farm dwellings, however, are principal buildings.
   AGRICULTURE. The use of land only, minus agricultural structures, for
cultivation of crops, raising of animals, or preservation in its natural state.
Associated terms include the following.
      (1)   AGRIBUSINESS. An enterprise that derives its revenue from sales of
agricultural products or sales to agricultural producers
      (2)   AGRICULTURAL USE. The use of:
         (a)   A tract of at least five contiguous acres for the production of
agricultural or horticultural crops, including, but not limited to, livestock,
livestock products, poultry, poultry products, grain, hay, pastures, soybeans,
tobacco, timber, orchard fruits, vegetables, flowers, or ornamental plants,
including provision for dwelling for persons and their families who are engaged
in the agricultural use on the tract, but not including residential building
development for sale or lease to the public;
         (b)   Regardless of the size of the tract of land used, small wineries
licensed under KRS 243.155;
         (c)   A tract of at least five contiguous acres used for the following
activities involving horses:
            1.   Riding lessons;
            2.   Rides;
            3.   Training;
            4.   Projects for educational purposes;
            5.   Boarding and related care; or
            6.   Shows, competitions, sporting events, and similar activities
that are associated with youth and amateur programs, none of which are
regulated by KRS Chapter 230, involving 70 or less participants. Shows,
competitions, sporting events, and similar activities that are associated with
youth and amateur programs, none of which are regulated by KRS Chapter 230,
involving more than 70 participants shall be subject to local applicable zoning
regulations.
         (d)   A tract of land used for the following activities involving
horses:
            1.   Riding lessons;
            2.   Rides;
            3.   Training;
            4.   Projects for educational purposes;
            5.   Boarding and related care; or
            6.   Shows, competitions, sporting events, and similar activities
that are associated with youth and amateur programs, none of which are
regulated by KRS Chapter 230, involving 70 or less participants. Shows,
competitions, sporting events, and similar activities that are associated with
youth and amateur programs, none of which are regulated by KRS Chapter 230,
involving more than 70 participants shall be subject to local applicable zoning
regulations. This division (2)(d)6. shall only apply to acreage that was being
used for these activities before July 13, 2004.
      (3)   AGRITOURISM. The act of visiting a working farm or any agricultural
horticultural, or agribusinesses.
      (4)   AGRITOURISM BUSINESS. An income producing commercial enterprise at
a working farm for the purpose of providing public enjoyment, education, or
active involvement in the activities of the farm or operation.
      (5)   VALUE-ADDED AGRICULTURAL ACTIVITIES. Any activity or process that
allows farmers to retain ownership, but that alters the original farm produced
agricultural product or commodity for the purpose of gaining a marketing
advantage. Value-added may include bagging, packaging, bundling, precutting,
cooking, or chilling.
   ALTERATION. Any change or addition to the supporting members or foundation
of a structure.
   AUTOMOBILE AND TRUCK REPAIR, MAJOR. Repair of vehicles including rebuilding
or reconditioning of engines and transmissions, or major overhaul in which the
engine, transmission, or other major components are removed entirely from the
vehicle; collision services including body or frame straightening or repair,
and/or automotive painting of any kind, including the use of paint booths.
   AUTOMOBILE AND TRUCK REPAIR, MINOR. Incidental repair, adjustment to a
vehicle’s operational systems, including replacement of parts, motor service to
passenger vehicles and trucks not exceeding one and one-half ton, but not
including any activity contained in the definition of “Automobile and Truck
Repair, Major”, or any other similar activity, nor any repair requiring outside
storage of a vehicle for more than 96 hours.
   A-WEIGHTED SOUND PRESSURE LEVEL. The sound pressure level as measured with a
sound level meter using the A-weighting network. The standard notation is dB(A)
or dBA.
   BED AND BREAKFAST HOME. A use located in an existing structure, originally a
single-family dwelling, which provides short-term transient lodging, including
serving only breakfast to overnight guests, for which a fee is paid and subject
to the following conditions.
      (1)   The use shall be secondary to the dwelling.
      (2)   The use shall be carried only by owners with at least a 51%
ownership interest, and who reside on the premises.
      (3)   The use shall not require external alteration of the dwelling
except as may be required to meet fire and building codes.
      (4)   Each room to be rented shall have no cooking facilities and be
designed and intended to accommodate no more than one family unit.
      (5)   Each room shall be rented for no longer than seven consecutive days
to a guest.
      (6)   The use shall not adversely affect the uses permitted in the
immediate neighborhood by excessive traffic generation, noise, or lights.
      (7)   The owner-operator shall maintain a guest log and other records,
which shall be subject to annual review and inspection.
      (8)   The use shall not be conducted within any accessory building except
for such an accessory building at least 50 years old that was originally
constructed in full or part as a dwelling.
      (9)   The conditional use permit shall become null and void upon the sale
or transfer of the property.
      (10)   All off-street parking areas shall be screened from streets and
adjacent property in accordance with §§
155.205 to
155.209 and shall not be located in the required front or side yards.
      (11)   The use shall be in compliance with all applicable state and local
laws, including Health Department rules and regulations.
      (12)   No sleeping rooms (as defined below) shall be permitted.
   BREWPUB. A restaurant that brews beer as an accessory use, either for
consumption on-site or in sealed containers in quantities up to one-half barrel
sold directly to the consumer. Production capacity is limited to 5,000 barrels
of beverage (all beverages combined) per year. The area used for brewing,
bottling, and kegging shall not exceed 30% of the total floor area of the
commercial space. A barrel is equivalent to 31 gallons.
   BUILDING. Any structure which fully encloses space for the occupancy by
persons or their activities. A mobile home is not a BUILDING, however.
   CELLULAR TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES. A retail telecommunications service
that uses radio signals transmitted through cell sites and mobile switching
stations.
   CO-LOCATION. Location of two or more transmission antennae or related
equipment on the same telecommunications tower.
   COMMERCIAL FLOOR AREA. Floor area of buildings which is devoted to the
storage and display of merchandise, the performance of consumer services, or
the circulation and accommodation of customers.
   CONDITIONAL USE. A use which must receive special approval by the Board of
Zoning Adjustment if delegated, in order to be permitted in a zoning district.
   CONSUMER SERVICES. Sale of any service to individual customers for their own
personal benefit, enjoyment, or convenience, and for fulfillment of their own
personal needs. For example, CONSUMER SERVICES include the provision of the
personal services such as beautician and barbering services, the provision of
lodging, entertainment, specialized instruction, financial service, automobile
storage, transportation, laundry and dry cleaning services, and all other
similar services.
   DECIBEL (dB). A unit for describing the loudness of sound, equal to 20 times
the logarithm to the base 10 of the ratio of the pressure of the sound measured
to the reference pressure, which is 20 micropascals (20 micronewtons per square
meter). Zero decibels is the threshold of human hearing. Ten decibels is ten
times as loud as A unit for describing the loudness of sound, equal to 20 times
the logarithm to the base 10 of the ratio of the pressure of the sound measured
to the reference pressure, which is 20 micropascals (20 micronewtons per square
meter). Zero decibels is the threshold of human hearing. Ten decibels is ten
times as loud as zero, 20 decibels is 100 times as loud as zero, 20 decibels is
100 times as loud as zero, and 130 decibels is the threshold of pain.
   DEVELOPMENT PLAN. Written and/or graphic material depicting a development of
land, including any or all of the following: location and bulk of buildings and
other structures, intensity of use, density of development, streets, ways,
parking facilities, signs, drainage of surface water, access points, a plan for
screening or buffering, utilities, existing human-made and natural conditions,
and all other conditions agreed to by the applicant.
   DEVELOPMENT RIGHT. A simple extension of the rights normally associated with
land ownership. When legally established, a development right has value
separate from the land itself. It can be subject to reasonable regulations by
local government under the police power. The DEVELOPMENT RIGHT can be
transferred by the owner, by means of gift or sale, to another property. The
land owner may sell the DEVELOPMENT RIGHTS and still retain the title to the
land and the right to use the land, excluding the right of development.
   DWELLING. A building providing shelter, sanitation, and amenities for
permanent habitation, including Class A Mobile Homes, but excluding
manufactured homes of Class B, C, and D, and temporary lodging and sleeping
rooms.
   DWELLING UNIT. A dwelling unit is a dwelling accommodation within a building
designed for one individual or family unit maintaining separate and independent
housekeeping.
   HEIGHT. The vertical distance measured from the average finished grade at
the front building line to the highest point of the structure.
   HOME OCCUPATIONS. Occupations involving personal and professional services,
subject to the following conditions:
      (1)   The use is clearly incidental and secondary to the principal
residential use;
      (2)   The use is conducted entirely within the dwelling and not in an
accessory building;
      (3)   The use is carried on only by residents of the dwelling;
      (4)   No products, commodities, or merchandise shall be sold or stored on
the premises;
      (5)   The use does not require alteration of the exterior of the
dwelling;
      (6)   The use does not adversely affect the neighborhood by generating
excessive traffic, atmospheric pollution, light flashes, glare, odors, noise,
vibration, or truck or other heavy equipment traffic; and
      (7)   Adequate off-street parking is provided.
   HOME OFFICE. An office use conducted within a dwelling under the following
conditions.
      (1)   The office shall be clearly incidental and secondary to the
residential use and shall occupy no more than 25% of the total area of the
dwelling or 500 feet, whichever is less.
      (2)   The use shall be limited to recordkeeping and administrative
activities.
      (3)   The office shall be located within the dwelling unit and not in an
accessory building.
      (4)   The office shall be operated by residents of the dwelling, and no
nonresidents may be employed on the premises.
      (5)   No sale of merchandise shall be conducted on the premises.
      (6)   No commodities, products, or merchandise shall be stored on the
premises.
      (7)   No signs identifying the office shall be displayed on the premises.
      (8)   Residence shall maintain its residential character and shall not be
altered or remodeled so as to change the residential appearance thereof.
      (9)   No customer traffic shall be generated.
      (10)   No commercial vehicles shall be parked on the premises.
   IMMEDIATE FAMILY MEMBER. Any person bearing the following relationship to
grantor: parent, mother/father-in-law, child, grandparent, grandchild, brother,
or sister.
   INDUSTRY. The processing of products or raw materials; the two categories of
industry are defined according to the following performance standards.
      (1)   HEAVY INDUSTRY. Those industries whose processing operations
resulting in the outdoor storage or processing of materials or products, the
emission of any atmospheric pollution, visible light flashes or glare, odors,
or noise or vibration which may be heard or felt off the premises, or those
industries which constitute a fire or explosion hazard.
      (2)   LIGHT INDUSTRY. Those industries whose processing operations result
in none of the above conditions.
   JUNKYARD. The outdoor storage of inoperative machinery.
   LOT. A parcel of land under one ownership devoted to a common use or
occupied by a single principal building plus accessory structures.
   LOT AREA. The computed ground area inside the lot lines.
   LOT, CORNER. A lot which abuts on two intersecting streets at their
intersection.
   LOT COVERAGE. The computed ground area occupied by all buildings within a
lot.
   LOT DEPTH. The mean horizontal distance between the front and rear lot
lines.
   LOT, DOUBLE-FRONTAGE. Any lot other than a corner lot which abuts on two
streets.
   LOT LINE. The boundary dividing a lot from a right-of-way, adjoining lot, or
other adjoining tract of land. Front, rear, and side LOTS LINES are self-
explanatory.
   LOT OF RECORD. A lot which is recorded in the office of the County Clerk.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. A building which is substantially constructed away from
the building site, which is designed to be and is transported to such building
site and permanently installed thereon for use as a dwelling. The term
includes, but is not limited to, mobile home. It also includes housing built
away from a building site in two or more sections or modules, commonly known as
a modular home.
   MANUFACTURED HOME COMPLEX. A manufactured home park in which the land is
owned by the developer and not by the individual occupants.
   MANUFACTURED HOME PARK. A parcel of land available to the public in which
two or more lots are occupied or intended for occupancy by manufactured homes
and includes service buildings, structures, enclosures, or other facilities
used as a part of the park. A park may be a “complex” or a “subdivision” and
the term is used interchangeably with both.
   MICRO BREWERY, MICRO DISTILLERY, OR MICRO WINERY. Facility for brewing less
than 15,000 barrels of alcoholic beverage per year. May include a tasting room
and retail space for the sale of the alcoholic beverage and related
merchandise.
   MINI-WAREHOUSE. A building divided in cubicles or compartments which are
rented or leased to the general public for the storage of goods.
   MOBILE HOME. A transportable dwelling unit suitable for year-round
occupancy, which is manufactured on a chassis or undercarriage as an integral
part thereof, containing facilities for water, sewage, bath, and electrical
conveniences.
   MOBILE HOME PARK. A track of land prepared and approved according to the
procedures in the zoning order to accommodate ten or more mobile homes.
   NOISE. Any sound which is unwanted or which causes or tends to cause an
adverse psychological or physiological effect on human beings.
   NONCONFORMING STRUCTURES OR USES. A structure or use of any premises which
does not conform with all applicable provisions of the zoning order but which
existed at the time of its designation as nonconforming by the adoption or
amendment of the zoning order.
   NONRETAIL COMMERCIAL. Commercial sales and services to customers who intend
resale of the products or merchandise sold or handled. For example, NONRETAIL
COMMERCIAL includes wholesaling, warehousing, truck terminals, and similar
commercial enterprises.
   OUTDOOR. Refers to that which is not within a building.
   PARKING AREA OR STRUCTURE. An off-street area or structure for required
parking or loading spaces, including driveways, access ways, aisles, parking
and maneuvering space, but excluding required front yard, or public right-of-
way.
   PLANNED DEVELOPMENT PROJECT. A complex of structures and uses planned as an
integral unit or community of development.
   PREMISES. A lot or other tract of land under one ownership and all of the
structures on it.
   PRIVATE RECREATION AREA. An area devoted to uses such as picnic and parking
areas, swimming pools, private clubhouses, tennis courts, refreshment stands,
and similar or associated structures and uses.
   PROCESSING. Manufacturing, reduction, extraction, packaging, repairing,
cleaning, and any other similar original or restorative treatment applied to
raw materials, products, or personal property. PROCESSING does not refer to the
fabrication of structures, however.
   PROPERTY LINE. An imaginary line along the surface, and its vertical plan
extension, which separates the real property owned, rented, or leased by one
person from that owned, rented, or leased by another person, excluding intra-
building real property division.
   PUBLIC SERVICE BUILDING. Any building necessary for the operation and
maintenance of a utility.
   RESTAURANT. An eating establishment where food is served and/or consumed
only within the building.
   RESTAURANT, DRIVE-IN. An eating establishment where food is generally served
by employees or by self-service on the premises outside the building and
generally consumed on the premises outside the building or off of the premises.
   RETAIL SALES. Sale of any product or merchandise to customers for their own
personal consumption or use, not for resale.
   ROAD. A traffic-carrying way. As used in this chapter, a ROAD may be
privately owned.
   ROADSIDE STAND. A temporary structure designed or used for the display or
sale of agricultural or other products grown or produced on the premises upon
which such a stand is located.
   SINGLE-FAMILY DWELLING. A dwelling designed or occupied by a single family.
   SLEEPING ROOM. A single room rented for dwelling purposes but without the
amenities for separate and independent housekeeping.
   SOUND LEVEL METER. An instrument which includes a microphone, amplifier, RMS
detector, integrator or time averager, output meter, and weighting networks
used to measure sound pressure levels. The output meter reads sound pressure
level when properly calibrated, and the instrument must be of type 2 or better,
as specified in the American National Standards Institute Publication S1.4-
1971, or its successor publications.
   STREET. Any highway or other public traffic-carrying way, an arterial street
is any federal, state, or county highway unless otherwise designated by the
Planning Commission.
   STRUCTURE. Any combination of materials fabricated to fulfill a function in
a fixed location on the land; includes buildings.
   TDR MULTIPLE. A method of assigning relative values to development rights
when transferred from one area to another. For instance, a TDR MULTIPLE of one
and one-half means that when a single development right is transferred from one
area to another it is given a value equivalent to one and one-half development
rights. As used herein, the word “value” is not intended to suggest monetary
value.
   TELECOMMUNICATIONS TOWER. A structure constructed for the location of
transmission antennas and/or related equipment to be used in the provision of
cellular telecommunications services for personal communications services, as
defined in 47 U.S.C. § 332(c), but not including such structures when used for
the broadcast of television, am or fm radio station, citizens band, or amateur
radio use.
   USABLE OPEN SPACE. The portion of the outdoor area of a lot or tract which
is designed and used for outdoor living, recreation, pedestrian access, or
landscaping, but not including off-street parking and loading areas, driveways,
or required front and street side yards unless separated from the street right-
of-way by a fence or screen planting.
   USE. Broadly refers to the activities which take place on any land or
premises and also refers to the structures located thereon and designed for
those activities.
   UTILITY. Any person, except a city, who owns, controls, or operates or
manages any facility used or to be used for or in connection with the
transmission or conveyance over wire, in air, or otherwise, of any message by
telephone or telegraph for the public, for compensation.
(KRS 278.010(3))
   VARIANCE. A departure from the strict conformance with the dimension and
area regulations of the zoning order which must first receive the approval of
the Board of Zoning Adjustment.
   VIEWSHED. The visual field presented by a particular parcel of real estate
when viewed from the adjoining public road by a person of average height.
   YARD, FRONT. An open space extending the full width of the lot between a
building and the front lot line, unoccupied and unobstructed from the ground
upward except as hereinbefore specified. The depth of a FRONT YARD is the
shortest distance, measured horizontally between any part of a building,
exclusive of such parts herein excepted and the front lot line.
   YARD, REAR. An open space extending the full width of a lot between a
building and the rear lot line, unoccupied and unobstructed from the ground
upward except as hereinbefore specified. The depth of a REAR YARD is the
shortest distance, measured horizontally between any pat of a building,
exclusive of such parts herein excepted and the rear lot line.
   YARD, SIDE. An open space between a building and a side lot line, unoccupied
and unobstructed from the ground upward except as herein specified. The width
of a SIDE YARD is the shortest distance, measured horizontally between any part
of a building, exclusive of such parts herein excepted and the nearest side lot
line.
(Prior Code, Art. 12) (Ord. 20-82, passed 9-28-1982; Ord. 29-82, passed 12-27-
1983; Ord. 29-83, passed 12-27-1983; Ord. 17-86, passed 7-24-1986; Ord. 19-86,
passed 9-15-1986; Ord. 36-87, passed 12-10-1987; Ord. 42-90, passed 11-27-1990;
Ord. 4-92, passed 3-11-1992; Ord. 95-13, passed 7-27-1995; Ord. 97-17, passed
1-14-1998; Ord. 99-1, passed 3-24-1999; Ord. 2000-2, passed 2-9-2000; Ord. 08-
2, passed 2-13- 2008; Ord. 2014-5, passed 5-14-2014; Ord. 2014-17, passed 12-2-
2014; Ord. 2014-18, passed 12-17-2014; Ord. 2022-9, passed 9-22-2022)
ZONING MAP
§ 155.020 ADOPTION OF ZONING MAPS.
   The City of Winchester and the unincorporated area of the county are hereby
divided into zones and districts as provided and described herein, and as shown
on the zoning map which is hereby adopted by reference and declared to be a
part of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 2.1)
§ 155.021 MAINTENANCE OF ZONING MAPS AND AMENDMENT RECORDS.
   (A)   A complete and accurate copy of each of the official zoning maps shall
be filed and available for public inspection in the office of the Planning
Commission or the Zoning Enforcement Officer. A copy of each of the official
zoning maps, as originally adopted, shall also be filed and available for
public inspection in the office of the County Court Clerk and the City Clerk of
the City of Winchester. All amendments to the zoning maps shall be posted on
the appropriate map within 30 days after final approval of such amendment by
the City of Winchester or the County Fiscal Court.
   (B)   The Enforcement Officer shall also maintain an accurate record of all
zoning map amendments, indicating the name of the applicant, the location and
area of the zoning map amendment, the date of final action by the Planning
Commission, and the date of approval by the legislative body involved. A report
of all zoning map amendments containing the aforementioned information shall be
submitted annually and within the first 60 days of the following year. This
report shall be submitted to the Planning Commission and made a part of its
minute record. One copy of said annual report shall be filed in the office of
the County Court Clerk.
(Prior Code, § 2.2)
§ 155.022 INTERPRETATION OF ZONING DISTRICT BOUNDARIES.
   The following rules shall be used to interpret the exact location of the
zoning district boundaries shown on the zoning map.
   (A)   Where a zoning district boundary follows an alley, a street, or
railroad, the centerline of the alley, street, or railroad right-of-way is the
boundary of the district.
   (B)   Where a zoning district boundary approximately follows a lot or
property line, that line is the boundary of the district.
   (C)   Where a zoning district boundary follows a stream or the shore of a
body of water, that stream or shore line is the boundary of the district.
   (D)   Where a zoning district boundary does not clearly follow any of the
features mentioned above, its exact location on the ground shall be determined
by measurement according to the map scale.
   (E)   In any case where the exact location of a boundary is not clear, the
Board of Zoning Adjustment shall use these rules to determine the exact
location upon application by the Enforcement Officer for an original
interpretation.
(Prior Code, § 2.3)
ADMINISTRATION
§ 155.035 ENFORCEMENT OFFICER.
   The Planning Commission shall designate and appoint one or more Enforcement
Officers or zoning administrators who may be members of the Commission, who
shall be charged with and provided with the authority to enforce the
ordinances, regulations, and orders of the Planning Commission and to issue
zoning permits and certificates of occupancy. The Enforcement Officers, in the
performance of their duties and functions, may enter upon any land and
examination and surveys that do not occasion damage or injury to private
property.
(Prior Code, § 3.1)
§ 155.036 ZONING PERMITS.
   (A)   Required prior to construction or alteration. It shall be unlawful to
commence construction or alteration of any structure until the Enforcement
Officer has issued a zoning permit authorizing such work, except as specified
elsewhere in this chapter. The Planning Commission may establish a schedule of
reasonable fees to be charged for the issuance of zoning permits, which
schedule must be approved by the city and county legislative bodies. An
accounting procedure shall be established by the Planning Commission and an
annual report of all such fees received by the Planning Commission shall be
submitted.
   (B)   Exceptions. No zoning permit or certificate of occupancy shall be
required in the following cases:
      (1)   Recurring maintenance work regardless of cost;
      (2)   Construction or alteration of agricultural structures which conform
with all setback requirements with respect to existing and proposed streets and
highways;
      (3)   Installation of required improvements according to an approved
preliminary subdivision plat or planned development plat; and
      (4)   Those structures and uses specifically exempted by the terms of
this order.
   (C)   Procedure.
      (1)   Application. In applying to the Enforcement Officer for a zoning
permit, the applicant shall provide the Enforcement Officer with information
indicating the dimensions of the lot to be built upon, the outside dimensions
of all structures to be constructed or altered and all existing structures, the
use of all structures, yard depths, and any other information necessary for
determining conformance with the zoning order. The County Health Officer’s
certificate approving proposed water and sewage facilities must accompany
applications whenever such certificate is required by the terms of this chapter
or such a requirement is established by the Planning Commission. Other
application requirements and procedures may also be established by the Planning
Commission.
      (2)   Permanent file. The Enforcement Officer shall keep a permanent file
of all applications with accompanying plans and all permits issued.
      (3)   Issuance. If the proposed construction or alteration conforms with
all applicable provisions of the zoning order and all other applicable orders,
regulations, and codes, the Enforcement Officer shall issue a zoning permit
authorizing such construction or alteration. If the proposed construction or
alteration fails to conform, the Enforcement Officer shall refuse to issue a
zoning permit and shall deliver written notice to the applicant stating the
reasons for the refusal. The Enforcement Officer shall act upon applications
for zoning permits within one week from the date of their submission.
      (4)   Validity. The issuance of a zoning permit by the Enforcement
Officer shall not waive any provision of the zoning order.
      (5)   Duration. A zoning permit shall become void six months from the
date of issuance unless substantial progress has been made by that date on the
construction or alteration authorized therein. A zoning permit may be reviewed
without fee upon review by the Enforcement Officer before it becomes void.
(Prior Code, § 3.2) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.037 CERTIFICATES OF OCCUPANCY.
   (A)   Required prior to occupancy, change of use, and under other
conditions. It shall be unlawful to use any newly erected or altered structure
or to change the use of any premises even though no structure was erected or
altered until the Enforcement Officer has issued a certificate of occupancy
authorizing such use except as specified elsewhere in this chapter. The
Planning Commission may establish a schedule of reasonable fees to be charged
for the issuance of certificates of occupancy.
   (B)   Procedure.
      (1)   Application. In applying to the Enforcement Officer for a
certificate of occupancy, the applicant shall notify the Enforcement Officer in
writing of the date on which the use of any new or altered structures or the
new use of any premises will be ready to commence. The County Health Officer’s
certificate must accompany applications according to the requirements of this
chapter.
      (2)   Permanent file. The Enforcement Officer shall keep a permanent file
of all applications and all certificates issued.
      (3)   Issuance. If the newly erected or altered structure and the new use
of premises conform with all applicable orders, regulations, and codes, the
Enforcement Officer shall issue a certificate of occupancy authorizing the use
thereof. If the structure or use fails to conform, the Enforcement Officer
shall refuse to issue a certificate of occupancy and shall deliver written
notice to the applicant stating the reasons for the refusal. The Enforcement
Officer shall inspect a new structure or the premises for which a new use is
proposed and shall issue or refuse a certificate of occupancy within five days
after the date on which the new use is ready to commence.
      (4)   Validity. The issuance of a certificate of occupancy by the
Enforcement Officer shall not waive any provision of the zoning order.
(Prior Code, § 3.3) Penalty, see §
155.999
NONCONFORMING STRUCTURES AND USES
§ 155.050 NONCONFORMING STRUCTURES.
   Nonconforming structures may remain subject to the following regulations.
   (A)   Alterations. A nonconforming structure shall not be enlarged,
replaced, or structurally altered except in conformance with the zoning order.
Any structure, however, may be restored to a safe condition if declared unsafe
by the Enforcement Officer or other public official with jurisdiction.
   (B)   Construction. Proposed structures for which building and/or zoning
permits have been issued prior to their designation as nonconforming by virtue
of the adoption or amendment of the zoning order may be completed as originally
intended and as indicated on said permits, provided that such structures are
completed within one year after the date on which the building permit was
issued.
(Prior Code, § 4.1) (Ord. 30-83, passed 1-11-1984)
§ 155.051 NONCONFORMING USES.
   Nonconforming uses may be continued subject to the following regulations.
   (A)   Extension. A nonconforming use shall not be extended beyond the scope
and area of its operation at the time of the adoption of the regulation which
makes such use nonconforming.
   (B)   Discontinuance. Whenever a nonconforming use of any structure or
premises has been discontinued for a period of 12 months, except when
government action or structural damage prevents such use, said structure or
premises must thereafter be used in conformance with the zoning order.
   (C)   Change. The nonconforming use of premises may be changed to another
nonconforming use, provided such new nonconforming use is permitted within the
same or a more restrictive zoning district.
   (D)   Restoration. Whenever the nonconforming use of any structure or
premises is halted because of the damage, destruction, or demolition of the
structure by any means, the structure involved may be reconstructed or repaired
in conformance with the zoning order and the nonconforming use resumed,
provided that such nonconforming use is not extended beyond the scope and area
of its operation as it existed prior to such damage, destruction, or
demolition.
(Prior Code, § 4.2)
§ 155.052 NONCONFORMING LOTS.
   (A)   In any case where a lot of official record or a lot which has received
final plat approval by the Planning Commission, at the date of the adoption or
amendment of this chapter, does not conform to the width, depth, or area
requirements of this chapter with respect to such lots, it shall be considered
a legal nonconforming lot.
   (B)   Any such lot which has received preliminary plat approval by the
Planning Commission shall be reviewed by the Planning Commission and may be
considered a legal nonconforming lot if it is found that such lot may
reasonably be used as a building site for any structure or use permitted within
the zoning district involved without requiring a dimensional variance.
   (C)   Any subdivision or tract of land which has been previously rezoned to
a residential classification may be developed in accordance with the lot area
requirements for said zoning district rather than the area requirements
contained in this chapter, provided that all requirements of the subdivision
regulations are observed.
(Prior Code, § 4.3)
§ 155.053 REPAIRS AND MAINTENANCE.
   On any nonconforming structure or portion of structure, and on any structure
containing a nonconforming use, work may be done on ordinary repairs, or on
repair or replacement of walls, fixtures, wiring, or plumbing, or other parts,
provided that the cubic content of the nonconforming structure or portion shall
not be increased. Nothing in this chapter shall be deemed to prevent the
strengthening, repairing, or restoring to a safe condition of any structure or
part thereof.
(Prior Code, § 4.4)
BOARD OF ZONING ADJUSTMENT
§ 155.065 APPOINTMENT AND ORGANIZATION.
   The Board of Zoning Adjustment as constituted at the time of the adoption of
this chapter shall continue to operate in the manner hereinafter prescribed.
(Prior Code, § 5.1)
§ 155.066 POWER AND DUTIES.
   The Board shall have the following powers and duties.
   (A)   Bylaws. The Board shall adopt bylaws for its own government and shall
keep minutes and records of all proceedings.
   (B)   Administrative review. The Board shall hear and decide upon appeals
from decisions of the Enforcement Officer. The Board shall decide on questions
involving literal interpretations of the zoning order, shall interpret the
exact location of zoning district boundaries, and shall make only those other
interpretations and decisions specifically delegated to it by the provisions of
the zoning order.
   (C)   Conditional uses. The Board shall have the authority to approve or
disapprove applications for only those conditional uses upon which it has been
specifically delegated to act by the provisions of the zoning order. The Board
may approve, modify, or deny any application for a conditional use permit. If
it approves such permit, it may attach necessary conditions such as time
limitations, requirements that one or more things be done before the request
can be initiated, or conditions of a continuing nature. Any such conditions
shall be recorded in the Board’s minutes and on the conditional use permit. The
granting of a conditional use permit does not exempt the applicant from
complying with all the requirements of building, housing, and other applicable
regulations.
   (D)   Variance.
      (1)   The Board shall have the power to hear and decide on applications
for dimensional variances where, by reason of the exceptional narrowness,
shallowness, or unusual shape of a site on the effective date of the zoning
regulation or by reason of exception topographic conditions, or some other
extraordinary situation or condition of that site, the literal enforcement of
the dimensional requirements (height or width of building or size of yards, but
no population density) of the zoning regulation would deprive the applicant of
reasonable capacity to make use of the land in a manner equivalent to the use
permitted other landowners in the same zone. The Board may impose any
reasonable conditions or restrictions on any variance it decides to grant.
      (2)   Before any dimensional variance is granted, the Board must find all
of the following, which shall be recorded along with any imposed conditions or
restrictions in its minutes and records and issued in written form to the
applicant to constitute proof of the dimensional variance:
         (a)   The specific conditions in detail which are unique to the
applicant’s land and do not exist on other land in the same zone;
         (b)   The manner in which the strict application of the provisions of
the regulation would deprive the applicant of a reasonable use of the land in
the manner equivalent to the use permitted other landowners in the same zone;
         (c)   The unique conditions and circumstances are not the result of
actions of the applicant taken subsequent to the adoption of the zoning
regulation; and
         (d)   Reasons that the variance will preserve, not harm the public
safety and welfare, and will not alter the essential character of the
neighborhood.
   (E)   Other variances. The Board is also empowered to approve, disapprove,
or approve conditionally applications for the following.
      (1)   Variances from the requirements for noise level emission from
industrial uses upon finding that bringing the source of the sound or activity
for which the variance is sought into compliance would constitute an
unreasonable hardship on the applicant, on the community, or on other persons.
A separate application shall be filed for each source; provided, however, that
several mobile sources under common ownership, or several fixed sources on a
single property may be combined into one application.
      (2)   Variances from screening requirements of §§
155.096(D) and
155.097(D). The Board shall utilize appropriate sections of the Landscape and
Land Use Buffer Guidelines of the County Conservation District as the minimum
standards for any such variance.
   (F)   The Planning Commission shall also have authority to grant variances
and issue conditional use permits only in the following circumstances.
      (1)   In conjunction with approval of subdivision plans. In conjunction
with the review and approval of subdivision plans, the Planning Commission is
authorized to grant dimension variances upon finding that:
         (a)   The variance is a result of customary design standards or
innovative design which, in the Commission’s opinion, still achieve the basic
objectives of the zoning laws and subdivision regulations; or
         (b)   Strict compliance with the regulations would create an undue
hardship because of exceptional and unique topographic or other physical
conditions encountered upon the particular land, and the resulting variance may
be granted without detriment to the public good.
      (2)   In conjunction with the zoning map amendment.
         (a)   At the time of the filing of an application for a map amendment,
the applicant may request to have one or more variances and/or one or more
conditional use permits for the same development to be heard and finally
decided by the Planning Commission at the same public hearing set for the map
amendment.
         (b)   When so requested by the applicant, the Planning Commission
shall hear and decide applications for variances or conditional use permits;
and in such case, the Planning Commission shall assume all powers and duties
otherwise exercised by the Board of Adjustments pursuant to KRS 100.231,
100.233, 100.237, 100.241, 100.243, 100.247, and 100.251. The decision of the
Planning Commission shall be final.
         (c)   Nothing in this section shall be deemed to prohibit the
applicant from electing to have applications for variances or conditional use
permits heard by the Board of Adjustments as otherwise provided in KRS Chapter
100 and this zoning code.
(Prior Code, § 5.2) (Ord. 20-82, passed 9-28-1982; Ord. 95-13, passed 7-27-
1995)
§ 155.067 PROCEDURE.
   (A)   An application to the Board for an original interpretation or decision
or an appeal from a decision of the Enforcement Officer shall be made in
writing on forms prescribed by the Board and which provide sufficient
information for administrative purposes. Additional statements or information
with respect to the case involved may also be submitted by the applicant for
review by the Board. An appeal must be filed within 30 days after the
Enforcement Officer has refused a zoning permit or certificate of occupancy, or
the right to appeal shall be waived. The Enforcement Officer shall transmit to
the Board the complete record of the decision appealed.
   (B)   The Board shall hold a hearing at which all pertinent evidence
concerning the interpretation, decision, or appeal shall be examined, and the
Board shall make its decision within 30 days after the hearing. The following
rules shall govern all decisions made by the Board.
      (1)   Limits of authority. The Board shall act only within the strict
limits of its authority as defined in the zoning order. The Board has no
authority to vary the use regulations or other regulations not specifically
delegated to it. The Board shall not hold hearings on applications or appeals
seeking decisions that the Board is not authorized to make.
      (2)   Special conditions. The Board may attach special conditions to any
decision it is authorized to make in order to ensure that the intent of the
zoning order will be carried out.
      (3)   Majority vote required. The concurring vote of a majority of the
entire membership of the Board shall be necessary in making any decision.
      (4)   Additional powers. In exercising the above powers, the Board shall
have all the powers of the Enforcement Officer in addition to its other powers
and duties.
(Prior Code, § 5.3) (Ord. 98-4, passed 6-10-1998)
ZONING DISTRICTS
§ 155.080 AGRICULTURAL DISTRICT (A-1).
   (A)   Principal uses permitted:
      (1)   Agricultural, farming, dairying, stock-raising, horticulture,
forestry, and related activities;
      (2)   Single-family dwellings;
      (3)   Class B and Class C manufactured homes;
      (4)   Animal husbandry services, including veterinarians and animal
hospitals; and
      (5)   Public schools and colleges for academic instruction.
   (B)   Accessory uses permitted:
      (1)   Accessory uses customarily associated with the permitted uses
listed above;
      (2)   Garage or other building not used as a dwelling and accessory to
the principal use;
      (3)   Private swimming pools, tennis courts, and similar recreational
facilities;
      (4)   Renting of sleeping rooms provided that three sleeping rooms are
the maximum that shall be rented in any residence;
      (5)   Signs identifying the agricultural activity on the same premises;
      (6)   Tenant houses, including Class A, B, and C manufactured homes,
provided that only one such tenant house is permitted for each increment of 50
acres in excess of the minimum lot size required for the principal dwelling;
      (7)   Sales of agricultural products produced on the premises;
      (8)   Temporary structures used in the sale of agricultural products
produced on the premises;
      (9)   Home offices as defined in §
155.007; and
      (10)   Child-care facilities for not more than three children located
within an owner-occupied residence.
   (C)   Conditional uses permitted:
      (1)   Home occupations in accordance with the standards set forth in §
155.007. On a parcel of not less than seven acres, one Class A, B, or C single
wide mobile/manufactured home (as defined in §
155.129) in addition to the principal dwelling, when occupied by a member of
the immediate family and spouse of the owner of the principal dwelling. Mobile/
manufactured home shall comply with all of the following:
         (a)   Board of Zoning Amendment (BZA) approval shall be given for a
specific immediate family member and spouse; if that family member/spouse no
longer resides in the home, the mobile/manufactured home shall be removed or
the property owner shall request approval from the BZA for another immediate
family member and spouse to move into the structure;
         (b)   Structure shall not be altered in any way that prevents or
impedes removal of the structure at a future time; and
         (c)   Structure shall not be converted from personal property to real
property. Structure is not eligible for affidavit of conversion.
      (2)   Privately owned outdoor recreational facilities such as golf
courses, country clubs, riding stables, campgrounds, fishing lakes, and
sportsman’s clubs;
      (3)   Bed and breakfast home. The Board of Adjustments shall consider and
make a finding that the number of rooms permitted shall not have an adverse
effect on surrounding properties. In addition, the Board of Adjustments shall
take into consideration the number of bed and breakfast homes, if any, within
the general neighborhood, that is, within one mile of the property being
considered for such use;
      (4)   Churches, Sunday schools, parish houses, and cemeteries;
      (5)   Private schools and colleges for academic instruction;
      (6)   Kennels, provided they are screened and fenced;
      (7)   Kindergartens, nursery schools, and child-care facilities for more
than three children when located in a permitted church, private school, or
owner-occupied residence. When located in a residence, enrollment shall be
limited to 12 children. Each such facility shall have a fenced and screened
play area containing not less than 25 square feet per child;
      (8)   Commercial radio and television transmitting towers (except those
regulated bit the Public Sendee Commission) and housing for related equipment;
and
      (9)   Other appropriate uses as determined by the Board of Adjustments
based on the Board’s findings that the proposed use is of an agricultural
character and a use that contributes to the agricultural economy; such as
agritourism, agribusiness, value added agriculture activities, or other
alternative agriculture opportunities.
   (D)   Special uses:
      (1)   Planned development project for a rural residential cluster
development in accordance with §
155.131;
      (2)   Family farm homesite as regulated by §
155.132; and
      (3)   Transfer of development rights as regulated by §
155.133.
   (E)   Dimension and area requirements - five acres or more.
Maximum height               35 feet
Maximum lot coverage         30%
Minimum front yard           75 feet
Minimum lot area             43,560 square feet (1 acre)
Minimum lot width            125 feet
Minimum public road frontage 250 feet*
Minimum rear yard            50 feet
Minimum side yard            50 feet
*Except as provided in §§
153.131 and
155.132
 
   (F)   Dimensions and area requirements* - less than five acres.
 
Maximum height        35 feet
Maximum lot coverage  30%
Minimum front yard    75 feet
Minimum rear yard     50 feet
Minimum road frontage 200 feet
*Minimum side yard    150 feet
*Where a residence exists at the time of the adoption of this order in an
agriculturally zoned area of the county, and the residence has been previously
constructed within less than 150 feet from an adjoining property owner, the
minimum side yard requirement of 150 feet shall not be required as to that
side where the residence has been constructed less than 150 feet from an
adjoining property owner.
 
   (G)   Parking requirements may be found in §
155.165 to
155.168.
   (H)   Sign requirements may be found in §§
155.180 to
155.192.
(Prior Code, § 6.1) (Ord. 76-63, passed 8-25-1976; Ord. 22-81, passed 10-22-
1981; Ord. 29-83, passed 12-28-1983; Ord. 30-83, passed 1-11-1984; Ord. 17-88,
passed 7-26-1988; Ord. 42-90, passed 11-27-1990; Ord. 95-19, passed 12-13-1995;
Ord. 1-98, 1-20-1998; Ord. 9-98, passed 6-2-1998; Ord. 98-4, passed 6-10-1998;
Ord. 99-1, passed 3-24-1999; Ord. 1-2000, passed 2-1-2000; Ord. 08-2, passed 2-
13-2008; Ord. 3-2008, passed 3-18-2008; Ord. 15-2014, passed 12-2-2014; Ord.
2014-17, passed 12-2-2014; Ord. 2017-21, passed 3-8-2017)
§ 155.081 SINGLE-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL (R-1A).
   (A)   Principal uses permitted: single-family dwellings.
   (B)   Accessory uses permitted:
      (1)   Garage or other building not used as a dwelling and accessory to
the principal use;
      (2)   Private swimming pools, tennis courts, and similar recreational
facilities;
      (3)   Home offices as defined in §
155.007; and
      (4)   Child-care facilities for not more than three children located
within an owner-occupied residence.
   (C)   Conditional uses permitted:
      (1)   Home occupations in accordance with the standards set forth in §
155.007;
      (2)   Kindergartens, nursery schools, and child-care facilities for more
than three children when located in a permitted church, private school, or
owner-occupied residence. When located in a residence, enrollment shall be
limited to 12 children. Each such facility shall have a fenced and screen play
area containing not less than 25 square feet per child; and
      (3)   Bed and breakfast home. The Board of Adjustment shall consider and
make a finding that the number of rooms permitted shall not have an adverse
effect on surrounding properties. In addition, the Board of Adjustment shall
take into consideration the number of bed and breakfast homes, if any, within
the general neighborhood, that is, within 500 feet of the property being
considered for such use.
   (D)   Other conditional uses permitted: churches, libraries, and country
clubs are permitted conditional uses, subject, however to the following special
conditions:
      (1)   Any other front and side yard limitations contained herein to the
contrary notwithstanding, the minimum front and side yards permitted shall be
the greater of:
         (a)   The principal structure at its highest point (exclusive of
steeples, cupolas, and the like) multiplied by one and one-half; or
         (b)   The width of the principal structure divided by two.
      (2)   The minimum lot area required shall be double that required for
principal permitted uses;
      (3)   In addition to the parking requirements contained in §§
155.165 to
155.168, no parking shall be permitted in the required side yards or required
front yard;
      (4)   As a minimum, the site shall be landscaped and buffered in
accordance with the Landscape and Buffer Guidelines of the County Conservation
District, provided, however, that the Board of Adjustment may, in its
discretion, require such reasonable additional buffering as circumstances may
require;
      (5)   The site shall be located so as to provide ingress and egress
directly onto a public street and so as not to create a traffic hazard; and
      (6)   Nothing herein shall be deemed to limit the power of the Board of
Adjustment to attach other conditions, or to exercise any of the other powers
granted to it under §§
155.065 to
155.067.
   (E)   Dimension and area requirements.
Maximum height                           35 feet
Maximum lot coverage                     30%
Minimum front yard                       50 feet
Minimum lot area, with sanitary sewer    18,000 square feet
Minimum lot area, without sanitary sewer 43,560 square feet
Minimum lot width                        125 feet
Minimum rear yard                        25 feet
Minimum side yard                        20 feet
 
   (F)   Parking requirements may be found in §
155.165 to
155.168.
   (G)   Sign requirements may be found in §§
155.180 to
155.192.
(Prior Code, § 6.2) (Ord. 30-83, passed 1-11-1984; Ord. 42-90, passed 11-27-
1990; Ord. 97-17, passed 1-14-1998; Ord. 98-4, passed 6-10-1998)
§ 155.082 SINGLE-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL (R-1B).
   (A)   Principal uses permitted: single-family dwellings.
   (B)   Accessory uses permitted:
      (1)   Garage or other building not used as a dwelling accessory to the
principal use;
      (2)   Private swimming pools, tennis courts, and similar recreational
facilities;
      (3)   Home offices as defined in §
155.007; and
      (4)   Child-care facilities for not more than three children located
within an owner-occupied residence.
   (C)   Conditional uses permitted:
      (1)   Home occupations in accordance with the standards set forth in §
155.007;
      (2)   Kindergartens, nursery schools, and child-care facilities for more
than three children when located in a permitted church, private school, or
owner-occupied residence. When located in a residence, enrollment shall be
limited to 12 children. Each such facility shall have a fenced and screened
play area containing not less than 25 square feet per child; and
      (3)   Bed and breakfast home: the Board of Adjustment shall consider and
make a finding that the number of rooms permitted shall not have an adverse
effect on surrounding properties. In addition, the Board of Adjustment shall
take into consideration the number of bed and breakfast homes, if any, within
the general neighborhood, that is, within 500 feet of the property being
considered for such use.
   (D)   Other conditional uses permitted: churches, libraries, and country
clubs, are conditional uses permitted, subject, however, to the same conditions
set forth in §
155.081(D).
   (E)   Dimension and area requirements.
Maximum height                           35 feet
Maximum lot coverage                     30%
Minimum both sides                       25 feet
Minimum front yard                       35 feet
Minimum lot area, with sanitary sewer    14,000 square feet
Minimum lot area, without sanitary sewer 43,560 square feet
Minimum lot width                        100 feet
Minimum rear yard                        25 feet
Minimum side yard                        12 feet
 
   (F)   Parking requirements may be found in §
155.165 to
155.168.
   (G)   Sign requirements may be found in §§
155.180 to
155.192.
(Prior Code, § 6.3)    (Ord. 30-83, passed 1-11-1984; Ord. 42-90, passed 11-27-
1990; Ord. 97-17, passed 1-14-1998; Ord. 98-4, passed 6-10-1998)
§ 155.083 SINGLE-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL (R-1C).
   (A)   Principal uses permitted: single-family dwellings.
   (B)   Accessory uses permitted:
      (1)   Garage or other building not used as a dwelling and accessory to
the principal use;
      (2)   Private swimming pools, tennis courts, and similar recreational
facilities;
      (3)   Renting of sleeping rooms by a resident owner, provided that two
sleeping rooms are the maximum that shall be rented in any residence;
      (4)   Home offices as defined in §
155.007; and
      (5)   Child-care facilities for not more than three children located
within an owner-occupied residence.
   (C)   Conditional uses permitted:
      (1)   Home occupations in accordance with the standards set forth in §
155.007;
      (2)   Two-family residences, provided that the property involved adjoins
a district other than residential;
      (3)   Bed and breakfast home. The Board of Adjustment shall consider and
make a finding that the number of rooms permitted shall not have an adverse
effect on surrounding properties. In addition, the Board of Adjustment shall
take into consideration the number of bed and breakfast homes, if any, within
the general neighborhood, that is, within 500 feet of the property being
considered for such use; and
      (4)   Kindergartens, nursery schools, and child-care facilities for more
than three children when located in a permitted church, private school, or
owner-occupied residence. When located in a residence, enrollment shall be
limited to 12 children. Each such facility shall have a fenced and screened
play area containing not less than 25 square feet per child.
   (D)   Other conditional uses permitted: churches, libraries, and country
clubs, are conditional uses permitted, subject, however, to the same conditions
set forth in §
155.081(D).
   (E)   Dimension and area requirements.
Maximum height                           35 feet
Maximum lot coverage                     30%
Minimum both sides                       20 feet
Minimum front yard                       30 feet
Minimum lot area, with sanitary sewer    9,000 square feet
Minimum lot area, without sanitary sewer 43,560 square feet
Minimum lot width                        75 feet
Minimum rear yard                        25 feet
Minimum side yard                        9 feet
 
   (F)   Parking requirements may be found in §
155.165 to
155.168.
   (G)   Sign requirements may be found in §§
155.180 to
155.192.
(Prior Code, § 6.4) (Ord. 30-83, passed 1-11-1984; Ord. 42-90, passed 11-27-
1990; Ord. 97-17, passed 1-14-1998; Ord. 98-4, passed 6-10-1998)
§ 155.084 SINGLE-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL (R-1D).
   (A)   Principal uses permitted: single-family dwellings.
   (B)   Accessory uses permitted:
      (1)   Garage or other building not used as a dwelling and accessory to
the principal use;
      (2)   Private swimming pools, tennis courts, and similar recreational
facilities;
      (3)   Renting of sleeping rooms by a resident owner, provided that two
sleeping rooms are the maximum that shall be rented in any residence;
      (4)   Home offices as defined in §
155.007; and
      (5)   Child-care facilities for not more than three children located
within an owner-occupied residence.
   (C)   Conditional uses permitted:
      (1)   Home occupations in accordance with the standards set forth in §
155.007;
      (2)   Two-family residences, provided that the property involved adjoins
a district other than residential;
      (3)   Bed and breakfast home. The Board of Adjustment shall consider and
make a finding that the number of rooms permitted shall not have an adverse
effect on surrounding properties. In addition, the Board of Adjustment shall
take into consideration the number of bed and breakfast homes, if any, within
the general neighborhood, that is, within 500 feet of the property being
considered for such use; and
      (4)   Kindergartens, nursery schools, and child-care facilities for more
than three children when located in a permitted church, private school, or
owner-occupied residence. When located in a residence, enrollment shall be
limited to 12 children. Each such facility shall have a fenced and screened
play area containing not less than 25 square feet per child.
   (D)   Other conditional uses permitted: churches, libraries, and country
clubs are conditional uses permitted, subject, however, to the same conditions
set forth in §
155.081(D).
   (E)   Dimension and area requirements.
Maximum height                           35 feet
Maximum lot coverage                     30%
Minimum both sides                       16 feet
Minimum front yard                       25 feet
Minimum lot area, with sanitary sewer    6,000 square feet
Minimum lot area, without sanitary sewer 43,560 square feet
Minimum lot width                        60 feet
Minimum rear yard                        25 feet
Minimum side yard                        7 feet
 
   (F)   Parking requirements may be found in §
155.165 to
155.168.
   (G)   Sign requirements may be found in §§
155.180 to
155.192.
(Prior Code, § 6.5) (Ord. 30-83, passed 1-11-1984; Ord. 42-90, passed 11-27-
1990; Ord. 97-17, passed 1-14-1998; Ord. 98-4, passed 6-10-1998)
§ 155.085 SINGLE-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL (R-1E).
   (A)   Principal uses permitted: single-family detached dwellings.
   (B)   Accessory uses permitted:
      (1)   Garage or other building not used as a dwelling and accessory to
the principal use;
      (2)   Private swimming pools, tennis courts, and similar recreational
facilities;
      (3)   Renting or sleeping rooms by a resident owner, provided that two
sleeping rooms are the maximum that shall be rented in any residence;
      (4)   Home offices as defined in §
155.007; and
      (5)   Child-care facilities for not more than three children located
within an owner-occupied residence.
   (C)   Conditional uses permitted:
      (1)   Nursery schools, day nurseries, and private kindergartens, provided
that a fenced play area is provided;
      (2)   Home occupations in accordance with the standards set forth in §
155.007;
      (3)   Two-family residences, provided that the property involved adjoins
a district other than residential;
      (4)   Bed and breakfast homes. The Board of Adjustment shall consider and
make a finding that the number of rooms permitted shall not have an adverse
effect on surrounding properties. In addition, the Board of Adjustment shall
take into consideration the number of bed and breakfast homes, if any, within
the general neighborhood, that is, within 500 feet of the property being
considered for such use; and
      (5)   Kindergarten, nursery schools, and child-care facilities for more
than three children when located in a permitted church, private school, or
owner-occupied residence. When located in a residence, enrollment shall be
limited to 12 children. Each facility shall have a fenced and screened play
area containing not less than 25 square feet per child.
   (D)   Other conditional uses permitted: churches, libraries, and county
clubs, are conditional uses permitted, subject, however, to the same conditions
set forth in §
155.081(D).
   (E)   Dimension and area requirements.
 
Maximum height                        35 feet
Maximum lot area, with sanitary sewer 4,000
Maximum lot coverage                  65%
Minimum front yard                    20 feet
Minimum lot width                     40 feet
Minimum rear yard                     15 feet
Minimum side yard                     3 feet (see note below)
 
   (F)   Parking requirements are found in §§
155.165 to
155.168.
   (G)   Sign requirements are found in §§
155.180 to
155.192.
   (H)   Special provisions. There shall be not less than six feet at any point
between the walls of each single-family residence. Side yards shall be
determined as follows:
      (1)   Where one wall of the structure is to be located on the side lot
line, the yard on the opposite side shall be at least six feet;
      (2)   The final record plat shall designate the lots which are to have
zero lot line structures under this provision;
      (3)   A three-foot wall maintenance easement shall be provided on the lot
adjacent to the zero lot line easement;
      (4)   No wall, air conditioning unit, structure, or any other obstruction
shall be located within the required side yard; and
      (5)   Any fence located in a required side yard must be entirely to the
rear of the principal structure on the lot.
(Prior Code, § 6.5A) (Ord. 30-83, passed 1-11-1984; Ord. 42-90, 11-27-1990;
Ord. 98-12, passed 11-24-1998)
§ 155.086 TWO-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL (R-2).
   (A)   Principal uses permitted:
      (1)   Single-family residences; and
      (2)   Two-family residences.
   (B)   Accessory uses permitted:
      (1)   Garage or other building not used as a dwelling and accessory to
the principal use;
      (2)   Private swimming pools, tennis courts, and similar recreational
facilities;
      (3)   Renting of sleeping rooms by a resident in a single-family
dwelling, provided that two sleeping rooms are the maximum that shall be rented
in any residence;
      (4)   Home offices as defined in §
155.007; and
      (5)   Child-care facilities for not more than three children located
within an owner-occupied residence.
   (C)   Conditional uses permitted:
      (1)   Home occupations in accordance with the standards set forth in §
155.007;
      (2)   Bed and breakfast home. The Board of Adjustment shall consider and
make a finding that the number of rooms permitted shall not have an adverse
effect on surrounding properties. In addition, the Board of Adjustment shall
take into consideration the number of bed and breakfast homes, if any, within
the general neighborhood, that is, within 500 feet of the property being
considered for such use; and
      (3)   Kindergartens, nursery schools, and child-care facilities for more
than three children when located in a permitted church, private school, or
owner-occupied residence. When located in a residence, enrollment shall be
limited to 12 children. Each such facility shall have a fenced and screened
play area containing not less than 25 square feet per child.
   (D)   Dimension and area requirements.
Maximum height                           35 feet
Maximum lot coverage                     30%
Minimum front yard                       40 feet
Minimum lot area, with sanitary sewer    10,000 plus 3,000 square feet for each
                                         unit over one
Minimum lot area, without sanitary sewer 43,560 square feet
Minimum lot width                        100 feet
Minimum rear yard                        25 feet
Minimum side yard                        12 feet
 
   (E)   Parking requirements may be found in §§
155.165 to
155.168.
   (F)   Sign requirements may be found in §§
155.180 to
155.192.
(Prior Code, § 6.6) (Ord. 30-83, passed 1-11-1984; Ord. 42-90, passed 11-27-
1990; Ord. 97-17, passed 1-14-1998; Ord. 98-4, passed 6-10-1998)
§ 155.087 MULTIPLE-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL (R-3).
   (A)   Principal uses permitted:
      (1)   Single-family dwellings;
      (2)   Two-family dwellings; and
      (3)   Multi-family dwellings.
   (B)   Accessory uses permitted:
      (1)   Garage or other building not used as a dwelling and accessory to
the principal use;
      (2)   Private swimming pools, tennis courts, and similar recreational
facilities;
      (3)   Renting of sleeping rooms by a resident in a single-family
dwelling, provided that three sleeping rooms are the maximum that shall be
rented in any residence;
      (4)   Home offices as defined in §
155.007; and
      (5)   Child-care facilities for not more than three children located
within an owner-occupied residence.
   (C)   Conditional uses permitted:
      (1)   Bed and breakfast home. The Board of Adjustment shall consider and
make a finding that the number of rooms permitted shall not have an adverse
effect on surrounding properties. In addition, the Board of Adjustment shall
take into consideration the number of bed and breakfast homes, if any, within
the general neighborhood, that is, within 500 feet of the property being
considered for such use.
      (2)   Kindergartens, nursery schools, and child-care facilities for more
than three children when located in a permitted church, private school, or
owner-occupied residence. When located in a residence, enrollment shall be
limited to 12 children. Each such facility shall have a fenced and screened
play area containing not less than 25 square feet per child.
   (D)   Other conditional uses permitted: churches, libraries, country clubs,
recreational and/or social clubs operated not for profit, nursing homes,
convalescent or extended care facilities, and rest homes, subject, however, to
the same conditions set forth in §
155.081(D).
   (E)   Dimension and area requirements
Maximum height                           35 feet
Maximum lot coverage                     30%
Minimum front yard                       35 feet
Minimum lot area, with sanitary sewer    8,000 plus 2,500 square feet for each
                                         unit over one
Minimum lot area, without sanitary sewer 43,560 square feet for each unit
Minimum lot width                        70 feet
Minimum rear yard                        25 feet
Minimum side yard                        10 feet
 
   (F)   Parking requirements may be found in §§
155.165 to
155.168.
   (G)   Sign requirements may be found in §§
155.180 to
155.192.
(Prior Code, § 6.7) (Ord. 30-83, passed 1-11-1984; Ord. 42-90, passed 11-27-
1990; Ord. 97-17, passed 1-14-1998; Ord. 98-4, passed 6-10-1998)
§ 155.088 MULTIPLE-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL (R-4).
   (A)   Principal uses permitted:
      (1)   Single-family dwellings;
      (2)   Two-family dwellings; and
      (3)   Multi-family dwellings.
   (B)   Accessory uses permitted:
      (1)   Garage or other building not used as a dwelling and accessory to
the principal use;
      (2)   Private swimming pools, tennis courts, and similar recreational
facilities;
      (3)   Renting of sleeping rooms by a resident in a single-family
dwelling, provided that three sleeping rooms are the maximum that shall be
rented in any residence;
      (4)   Home offices as defined in §
155.007; and
      (5)   Child-care facilities for not more than three children located
within an owner-occupied residence.
   (C)   Conditional uses permitted:
      (1)   Bed and breakfast home. The Board of Adjustment shall consider and
make a finding that the number of rooms permitted shall not have an adverse
effect on surrounding properties. In addition, the Board of Adjustment shall
take into consideration the number of bed and breakfast homes, if any, within
the general neighborhood, that is, within 500 feet of the property being
considered for such use; and
      (2)   Kindergartens, nursery schools, and child-care facilities for more
than three children when located in a permitted church, private school, or
owner-occupied residence. When located in a residence, enrollment shall be
limited to 12 children. Each such facility shall have a fenced and screened
play area containing not less than 25 square feet per child.
   (D)   Other conditional uses permitted: churches, libraries, country clubs,
recreational and/or social clubs operated not for profit, nursing homes,
convalescent or extended care facilities, and rest homes, subject, however, to
the same conditions set forth in §
155.081(D).
   (E)   Dimension and area requirements.
Maximum height                           35 feet
Maximum lot coverage                     30%
Minimum both sides                       16 feet
Minimum front yard                       25 feet
Minimum lot area, with sanitary sewer    6,000 plus 2,500 square feet for each
                                         unit over one
Minimum lot area, without sanitary sewer 43,560 square feet for each unit (plus
                                         10,000)
Minimum lot width                        60 feet
Minimum rear yard                        25 feet
Minimum side yard                        7 feet
Open space                               200 square feet per dwelling unit
 
   (F)   Parking requirements may be found in §§
155.165 to
155.168.
   (G)   Sign requirements may be found in §§
155.180 to
155.192.
(Prior Code, § 6.8) (Ord. 30-83, passed 1-11-1984; Ord. 42-90, passed 11-27-
1990; Ord. 97-17, passed 1-14-1998; Ord. 98-4, passed 6-10-1998)
§ 155.089 RESIDENTIAL (R-5).
   (A)   Principal uses permitted: multi-family dwellings.
   (B)   Accessory uses permitted:
      (1)   Garage or other building not used as a dwelling and accessory to
the principal uses;
      (2)   Private swimming pools, tennis courts, and similar recreational
facilities;
      (3)   Renting of sleeping rooms by a resident of a single-family
dwelling, provided that three sleeping rooms are the maximum that shall be
rented in any residence;
      (4)   Home offices as defined in §
155.007; and
      (5)   Child-care facilities for not more than three children located
within an owner-occupied residence.
   (C)   Conditional uses permitted:
      (1)   Home occupations in a single-family residence only in accordance
with the standards set forth in §
155.007;
      (2)   Bed and breakfast home. The Board of Adjustment shall consider and
make a finding that the number of rooms permitted shall not have an adverse
effect on surrounding properties. In addition, the Board of Adjustment shall
take into consideration the number of bed and breakfast homes, if any, within
the general neighborhood, that is, within 500 feet of the property being
considered for such use; and
      (3)   Kindergartens, nursery schools, and child-care facilities for more
than three children when located in a permitted church, private school, or
owner-occupied residence. When located in a residence, enrollment shall be
limited to 12 children. Each such facility shall have a fenced and screened
play area containing not less than 25 square feet per child.
   (D)   Other conditional uses permitted: churches, libraries, country clubs,
recreational and/or social clubs operated not for profit, nursing homes,
convalescent or extended care facilities, and rest homes, subject, however, to
the same conditions set forth in §
155.081(D).
   (E)   Dimension and area requirements
Maximum height                           None
Maximum lot coverage                     30%
Minimum both sides                       16 feet
Minimum front yard                       25 feet
Minimum lot area, with sanitary sewer    6,000 plus 2,500 square feet for each
                                         unit over one
Minimum lot area, without sanitary sewer 43,560 square feet for each unit
Minimum lot width                        60 feet
Minimum rear yard                        25 feet
Minimum side yard                        7 feet
Open space                               200 square feet per dwelling unit
 
   (F)   Parking requirements may be found in §§
155.165 to
155.168.
   (G)   Sign requirements may be found in §§
155.180 to
155.192.
(Prior Code, § 6.9) (Ord. 30-83, passed 1-11-1984; Ord. 42-90, passed 11-27-
1990; Ord. 97-17, passed 1-14-1998; Ord. 98-4, passed 6-10-1998)
§ 155.090 RESIDENTIAL TOWNHOUSE (R-6).
   (A)   Principal uses permitted:
      (1)   Single-family attached dwellings, except that not more than six
units shall be attached; and
      (2)   Multi-family dwellings.
   (B)   Accessory uses permitted:
      (1)   Garage or other building not used as a dwelling and accessory to
the principal use;
      (2)   Private swimming pools, tennis courts, and similar recreational
facilities;
      (3)   Renting or sleeping rooms by a resident of a single-family
dwelling, provided that three sleeping rooms are the maximum that shall be
rented in any residence;
      (4)   Home offices as defined in §
155.007; and
      (5)   Child-care facilities for not more than three children located
within an owner-occupied residence.
   (C)   Conditional uses permitted:
      (1)   Nursery schools, day nurseries, and private kindergartens, provided
that a fenced play area is provided;
      (2)   Home occupations in a single-family residence only, in accordance
with the standards set forth in §
155.007;
      (3)   Bed and breakfast home. The Board of Adjustment shall consider and
make a finding that the number of rooms permitted shall not have an adverse
effect on surrounding properties. In addition, the Board of Adjustments shall
take into consideration the number of bed and breakfast homes, if any, within
the general neighborhood, that is, within 500 feet of the property being
considered for such use; and
      (4)   Kindergartens, nursery schools, and child-care facilities for more
than three children when located in a permitted church, private school, or
owner-occupied residence. When located in a residence, enrollment shall be
limited to 12 children. Each such facility shall have a fenced and screened
play area containing not less than 25 square feet per child.
   (D)   Other conditional uses permitted: churches, libraries, country clubs,
recreational and/or social clubs operated not for profit, nursing homes,
convalescent or extended care facilities, and rest homes, subject, however, to
the same conditions as set forth in §
155.081(D).
   (E)   Dimensional and area requirements.
Maximum height                        35 feet
Maximum lot coverage                  Unlimited
Minimum front yard                    10 feet
Minimum lot area, with sanitary sewer 1,500 square feet
Minimum lot width                     16 feet
Minimum rear yard                     15 feet
Minimum side yard                     7 feet
Open space                            10%
 
   (F)   Parking regulations are found in §§
155.165 to
155.168.
   (G)   Sign regulations are found in §§
155.180 to
155.192.
   (H)   Special provisions:
      (1)   No more than two contiguous townhouse units may be established at
the same setback. A variation of at least three feet shall be required where a
break in setback occurs. Buildings may penetrate up to 18 inches over the
building line into the required front yard, but the average setback of the
contiguous units shall be at least as great as the required front yard;
      (2)   Not less than 10% of the total lot area for any townhouse shall be
devoted to private usable open space either on each lot or on land adjacent and
directly accessible to each lot. Such open space shall be for the private use
of the residents of each individual townhouse and shall be physically separated
from the other private open space or common open space by planting, fences, or
walls. The least dimension of the private open space shall be eight feet; and
      (3)   Any development containing more than two rows of townhouse units
shall provide rear access via a public or private alley as provided for within
the subdivision regulations.
(Prior Code, § 6.9A) (Ord. 30-83, passed 1-11-1984; Ord. 42-90, passed 11-27-
1990; Ord. 98-12, passed 11-24-1998)
§ 155.091 PROFESSIONAL OFFICE DISTRICT (P-1).
   (A)   Principal uses permitted:
      (1)   Single-family dwellings;
      (2)   Multi-family dwellings;
      (3)   Professional, business, and governmental offices;
      (4)   Research, development, or testing laboratories;
      (5)   Studios for the production or teaching of fine arts, such as
photography, music, dance, and drama;
      (6)   Ticket and travel agencies;
      (7)   Medical and dental offices, laboratories, and clinics;
      (8)   Schools and colleges for academic, technical, vocational, or
professional instruction;
      (9)   Bed and breakfast homes;
      (10)   Hospitals; and
      (11)   Kindergartens, nursery schools, and child-care facilities provided
that each such facility shall have a fenced and screened play area of not less
than 25 square feet per child.
   (B)   Accessory uses permitted:
      (1)   Garage or other building not used as a dwelling and accessory to
the principal use;
      (2)   Private swimming pools, tennis courts, and similar recreational
facilities;
      (3)   Renting of sleeping rooms by a resident family. Three sleeping
rooms are the maximum that shall be rented in any building; and
      (4)   Dwelling units occupying the same building as a principal use.
   (C)   Conditional uses:
      (1)   Drive-in type banks and business offices, provided that access to
such establishments is approved by the City or County Engineer or by any other
appropriate official designated by the Board, and does not create a hazardous
traffic situation; and
      (2)   Heliports, provided that all state and federal regulations are met.
   (D)   Other conditional uses: churches, libraries, country clubs,
recreational and/or social clubs operated not for profit, nursing homes,
convalescent or extended care facilities, rest homes, mortuaries, and funeral
homes, subject, however, to the same conditions set forth in §
155.081(D).
   (E)   Dimension and area requirements.
Maximum height                           35 feet
Maximum lot coverage                     40%
Minimum front yard                       30 feet
Minimum lot area, with sanitary sewer    10,000 square feet
Minimum lot area, without sanitary sewer 43,560 square feet
Minimum lot width                        60 feet
Minimum rear yard                        25 feet
Minimum side yard                        10 feet
 
   (F)   Parking requirements may be found in §§
155.165 to
155.168.
   (G)   Sign requirements may be found in §§
155.180 to
155.192.
(Prior Code, § 6.10) (Ord. 30-83, passed 1-11-1984; Ord. 97-17, passed 1-14-
1998; Ord. 98-4, passed 6-10-1998)
§ 155.092 NEIGHBORHOOD BUSINESS DISTRICT (B-1).
   (A)   Principal uses permitted:
      (1)   Those uses permitted and as regulated in the Professional Office
District (P-1);
      (2)   Retail sales establishments for the sale of food, food products,
and general merchandise;
      (3)   Personal service establishments such as barber shops, beauty shops,
and shoe repair shops; and
      (4)   Restaurants.
   (B)   Accessory uses permitted:
      (1)   Parking lots and structures;
      (2)   Garage or other building not uses as a dwelling and accessory to
the principal use; and
      (3)   Only that wholesaling of merchandise which is clearly incidental
and subordinate to the principal retail use on the premises.
   (C)   Conditional uses permitted:
      (1)   Car wash establishments, provided that surface water from such
establishments shall not drain onto adjacent property, and that adequate on-
site storage lanes and parking facilities shall be provided so that no public
way shall be used for such purposes; and
      (2)   Churches, libraries, country clubs, recreational and/or social
clubs operated not for profit, nursing homes, convalescent or extended care
facilities, rest homes, mortuaries, funeral homes, automobile service stations,
drive-in banks, and business offices.
   (D)   Dimension and area requirements.
Maximum height                           35 feet
Maximum lot coverage                     None
Minimum front yard                       20 feet
Minimum lot area, with sanitary sewer
Minimum lot area, without sanitary sewer 43,560 square feet
Minimum lot width                        50 feet
Minimum rear yard                        None
Minimum side yard                        None
 
   (E)   Parking requirements may be found in §§
155.165 to
155.168.
   (F)   Sign requirements may be found in §§
155.180 to
155.192.
(Prior Code, § 6.11) (Ord. 30-83, passed 1-11-1984; Ord. 98-4, passed 6-10-
1998)
§ 155.093 DOWNTOWN BUSINESS (B-2).
   (A)   Principal uses permitted:
      (1)   Those uses permitted and as regulated in the Neighborhood Business
District (B-1);
      (2)   Hotels, motels, and motor hotels;
      (3)   Theaters;
      (4)   Billiard parlors, bowling alleys, and similar indoor amusement
enterprises;
      (5)   Multi-family dwellings; and
      (6)   Newspaper plant, printing, and publishing.
   (B)   Accessory uses permitted:
      (1)   Parking lots and structures;
      (2)   Garage or other building not used as a dwelling and accessory to
the principal use; and
      (3)   Only that wholesaling of merchandise which is clearly incidental
and subordinate to the principal retail use on the premises.
   (C)   Conditional uses permitted:
      (1)   Car wash establishments, provided that surface water from such
establishments shall not drain onto adjacent property, and that adequate on-
site storage lanes and parking facilities shall be provided so that no public
way shall be used for such purpose;
      (2)   Churches, libraries, country clubs, recreational and/or social
clubs operated not for profit, nursing homes, convalescent or extended care
facilities, rest homes, mortuaries, funeral homes, automobile service stations,
drive-in banks, and business offices; and
      (3)   Microbreweries, microdistilleries, microwineries, and brewpubs. Car
wash establishments, provided that surface water from such establishments shall
not drain onto adjacent property, and that adequate on-site storage lanes and
parking facilities shall be provided so that no public way shall be used for
such purposes. Churches, libraries, country cubs, recreational and/or social
clubs operated not for profit, nursing homes convalescent or extended care
facilities, rest homes, mortuaries, funeral homes, automobiles services
stations, drive-in banks, and business offices.
   (D)   Dimension and area requirements: none.
   (E)   Parking requirements may be found in §§
155.165 to
155.168.
   (F)   Sign requirements may be found in §§
155.180 to
155.192.
(Prior Code, § 6.12) (Ord. 21-77, passed 12-12-1977; Ord. 30-83, passed 1-11-
1984; Ord. 2014-5, passed 5-14-2014)
§ 155.094 HIGHWAY BUSINESS DISTRICT (B-3).
   (A)   Principal uses permitted:
      (1)   Those uses permitted and as regulated in the Downtown Business
District (B-2);
      (2)   Automobile service stations;
      (3)   Restaurants;
      (4)   Drive-in restaurants, provided that all outside food service areas
are located at least 100 feet from any residential district;
      (5)   Motel or hotel;
      (6)   Indoor amusements, such as billiard or pool halls, dancing halls,
skating rinks, theaters, or bowling alleys;
      (7)   Drive-in theaters;
      (8)   Mobile home sales and service;
      (9)   Automobile-truck sales and/or service;
      (10)   Minor automobile and truck repair;
      (11)   Boat and marine supplies;
      (12)   Used car lots;
      (13)   Veterinary offices, laboratories, and clinics for the treatment
and care of small animals only; provided, however, such animals shall be kept
on the premises within confined kennels or buildings; and
      (14)   Mini-warehouses, provided that no auctions, flea markets, bazaars,
retail sales, or other similar commercial activity shall be conducted on the
premises.
   (B)   Accessory uses permitted:
      (1)   Parking lots and structures;
      (2)   Dwelling units occupying the same building as the principal
commercial use;
      (3)   Garage or other building not used as a dwelling and accessory to
the principal use; and
      (4)   Wholesale of merchandise or services which is clearly incidental
and subordinate to the principal retail use on the premises.
   (C)   Conditional uses:
      (1)   Car wash establishments provided that surface water from such
establishments shall not drain onto adjacent property, and that adequate on-
site storage lanes and parking facilities shall be provided so that no public
way shall be used for such purposes;
      (2)   Churches, libraries, country clubs, recreational and/or social
clubs operated not for profit, nursing homes, convalescent or extended care
facilities, rest homes, mortuaries, funeral homes, automobile service stations,
drive-in banks, and business offices;
      (3)   Those uses permitted in the B-4 Zoning District, provided the
findings necessary for a proposed map amendment are determined by the Planning
Commission pursuant to KRS 100.213. Dimensions and area requirements for the
conditional use are substantially similar to and compatible with uses permitted
in the B-3 Zone. Notices shall be provided as required for a zone change; and
      (4)   Microbreweries, microdistilleries, microwineries, and brewpubs. Car
wash establishments provided that surface water from such establishments shall
not drain onto adjacent property, and that adequate on-site storage lanes and
parking facilities shall be provided so that no public way shall be used for
such purposes. Churches, libraries, country clubs, recreational and/or social
clubs operated not for profit, nursing homes, convalescent or extended care
facilities, rest homes, mortuaries, funeral homes, automobile service stations,
drive-in banks, and business offices.
   (D)   Dimension and area requirements.
Maximum height                           35 feet
Maximum lot coverage                     40%
Minimum front yard                       50 feet
Minimum lot area, with sanitary sewer    5,000 square feet
Minimum lot area, without sanitary sewer 43,560 square feet
Minimum lot width                        50 feet
Minimum rear yard                        None
Minimum side yard                        None
 
   (E)   Parking requirements may be found in §§
155.165 to
155.168.
   (F)   Sign requirements may be found in §§
155.180 to
155.192.
(Prior Code, § 6.13) (Ord. 20-77, passed 11-22-1977; Ord. 8-79, passed 9-10-
1979; Ord. 30-83, passed 1-11-1984; Ord. 17-86, passed 7-24-1986; Ord. 19-86,
passed 9-15-1986; Ord. 2010-14, passed 5-26-2010; Ord. 2014-5, passed 5-14-
2014)
§ 155.095 GENERAL BUSINESS DISTRICT (B-4).
   (A)   Principal uses permitted:
      (1)   Those principal uses permitted in the Highway Business District (B-
3), provided, however, that with respect to such uses the front yard
requirements set forth in §
155.094(D) shall apply;
      (2)   Wholesale business;
      (3)   Laundry, cleaning, and dyeing plants;
      (4)   Mobile home and travel trailer sales and service;
      (5)   Dairy or other food product bottling plants;
      (6)   Tire retreading or recapping;
      (7)   Truck terminals and freight yards;
      (8)   Shops of special trade and general contractors such as electrical,
plumbing, roofing, heating, carpentry, masonry, painting, plastering, metal
work, printing, publishing, lithographing, engraving, sign painting,
upholstering, tile mosaic and terrazzo work, and electroplating;
      (9)   Warehouses and storage facilities;
      (10)   Sale of building materials;
      (11)   Sale of feed, grain, or agricultural supplies;
      (12)   Greenhouses and plant nurseries;
      (13)   Machine shops;
      (14)   Automobile service stations;
      (15)   Major or minor automobile and truck repair;
      (16)   Establishments and lots for the display, rental, sale, and repair
of farm equipment, contractors’ equipment, and trucks;
      (17)   Automobile and truck sales or service;
      (18)   Used car lots;
      (19)   Boat and marine supplies sales and service;
      (20)   Billboards, subject to setback and other restrictions associated
with principal permitted uses; and
      (21)   Restaurants, indoor theaters, retail sales establishments, and
personal service establishments, such as barbershops, beauty shops, and shoe
repair shops.
   (B)   Accessory uses permitted:
      (1)   Parking lots and structures;
      (2)   Dwelling units occupying the same building as the principal
commercial uses;
      (3)   Outdoor storage of materials; and
      (4)   Garage or other building not used as a dwelling and accessory to
the principal use.
   (C)   Conditional uses permitted:
      (1)   Car wash establishments, provided that surface water from such
establishments shall not drain onto adjacent property, and that adequate on-
site storage lanes and parking facilities shall be provided so that no public
way shall be used for such purposes; and
      (2)   Churches, libraries, country clubs, recreational and/or social
clubs operated not for profit, nursing homes, convalescent or extended care
facilities, rest homes, mortuaries, funeral homes, automobile service stations,
drive-in banks, and business offices.
   (D)   Dimension and area requirements.
Maximum height                           35 feet
Maximum lot coverage                     100%
Minimum front yard                       None
Minimum lot area, with sanitary sewer    5,000 square feet
Minimum lot area, without sanitary sewer 43,560 square feet
Minimum lot width                        50 feet
Minimum rear yard                        None
Minimum side yard                        None
 
   (E)   Parking requirements may be found in §§
155.165 to 155.168.
   (F)   Sign requirements may be found in §§
155.180 to 155.192.
(Prior Code, § 6.14) (Ord. 5-79, passed 6-12-1979; Ord. 30-83, passed 1-11-
1984; Ord. 19-86, passed 9-15-1986; Ord. 10-88, passed 5-24-1988)
§ 155.096 LIGHT INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT (I-1).
   (A)   The intent of this district is to provide manufacturing, industrial,
and related uses which are clean, quiet, and free from objectionable nuisances
such as noise, air pollution, odor, and vibration. All operations must be
conducted entirely within an enclosed structure and generate little industrial
traffic (except employee traffic).
   (B)   Noise level requirement:
      (1)   Noise levels emitted from any activities or operations within this
district shall not at any receiving property line exceed as follows.
 
Receiving land use 7:00 a.m. - 9:00 p.m. 9:00 p.m. - 7:00 a.m.
Commercial         65dB(a)               65dB(a)
Industrial         70dB(a)               70dB(a)
Residential        55dB(a)               50dB(a)
As measured with a sound level meter conforming to ANSI type II
specifications or better.
 
      (2)   Air pollutant levels emitted from the activities or operations
shall not exceed the guidelines set up by the Department of Natural Resources
Environmental Protection.
   (C)   Principal uses permitted:
      (1)   Those principal uses permitted in the General Business District (B-
4) as set forth in §
155.095(A);
      (2)   Manufacturing, fabricating, casting, assembling, machining,
packaging, processing, or similar treatment of materials for the production of
goods, parts, products, or merchandise, including, but not limited to,
furniture, tools, jewelry, wearing apparel, instruments, optical goods, food
products, auto parts, pharmaceuticals, plastics, fiber, boxes, and crates;
      (3)   Retail sale of any product or commodity manufactured, fabricated,
or processed on the premises;
      (4)   Building material sales yard and lumber yard, including the sale of
rock, sand, and gravel when incidental to the principal use;
      (5)   Billboards and advertising signs, subject to setback and other
restrictions associated with principal uses;
      (6)   Union halls, including offices and recreational facilities when
incidental to the principal use; and
       (7)   Personal service establishments.
   (D)   Accessory uses permitted:
      (1)   Parking lots and structures;
      (2)   Garage or other building not used as a dwelling and accessory to
the principal use; and
      (3)   Outside storage of goods incidental to the principal use provided
that the storage is enclosed on all sides by a solid wall or fence at least six
feet in height or an alternate method of screening subject to the review by,
and approval of, the Board of Adjustments.
   (E)   Conditional uses permitted: commercial radio and television
transmitting towers (except those regulated by the Public Service Commission)
and housing for related equipment.
   (F)   Dimension and area requirements.
 
Minimum lot area, with or without sanitary sewer 43,560 square feet
Minimum lot width                                50 feet
 
   (G)   Parking requirements may be found in §§
155.165 to
155.168.
   (H)   Sign requirements may be found in §§
155.180 to
155.192.
(Prior Code, § 6.15) (Ord. 1-80, passed 1-8-1980; Ord. 22-80, passed 7-22-1980;
Ord. 20-82, passed 9-28-1982; Ord. 30-83, passed 1-11-1984; Ord. 19-86, passed
9-15-1986; Ord. 17-90, passed 5-10-1990; Ord. 2000-2, passed 2-9-2000; Ord.
2000-10, passed 6-28-2000)
§ 155.097 HEAVY INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT (I-2).
   (A)   The intent of this district is to provide manufacturing, industrial,
and related uses which may potentially involve nuisance factors such as noise,
air pollution, odor, and vibration.
   (B)   Noise level requirements:
      (1)   Noise levels emitted from any activities or operations within this
district shall not at any receiving real property exceed as follows.
 
Receiving land use 7:00 a.m. - 9:00 p.m. 9:00 p.m. - 7:00 a.m.
Commercial         65dB(a)               65dB(a)
Industrial         70dB(a)               70dB(a)
Residential        60dB(a)               55dB(a)
As measured with a sound level meter conforming to ANSI type II
specifications or better.
 
      (2)   Air pollutant levels emitted from the activities operation shall
not exceed the guidelines set up by the Department of Natural Resources
Environmental Protection.
   (C)   Principal uses permitted:
      (1)   Any use permitted in the I-1 zone provided that all provisions
outlined herein shall apply;
      (2)   Manufacturing or industrial uses provided that any building or
outside storage, loading, or working areas except accessory parking areas shall
be located at least 300 feet from any residential land use and 100 feet from
any other use except I-1;
      (3)   Manufacturing, including, but not limited to, foundries, brick
kilns, curing and tanning, glue manufacturers, rendering plants, junk or
wrecking material yards, gasoline storage areas, refuse dumps, sanitary
landfill areas, or automobile racetracks. The manufacture and/or sale of rock,
sand, or gravel when a principal use;
      (4)   Contractor’s equipment storage yard or plant; and
      (5)   Billboards and advertising signs.
   (D)   Accessory uses permitted:
      (1)   Parking lots and structures;
      (2)   Garage or other building not used as a dwelling and accessory to
the principal use; and
      (3)   Outside storage of goods incidental to the principal use provided
that the storage is enclosed on all sides by a solid wall or fence at least six
feet in height or an alternative method of screening subject to the review by
and approval of the Board of Adjustments.
   (E)   Dimension and area requirements: none, except as provided in §§
155.146 and 115.152.
   (F)   Parking requirements may be found in §§
155.165 to
155.168.
   (G)   Sign requirements may be found in §§
155.180 to
155.192.
(Prior Code, § 6.16) (Ord. 20-82, passed 9-28-1982)
SPECIAL ZONING DISTRICTS
§ 155.110 MOBILE HOME DISTRICT.
   (A)   Principal uses permitted: manufactured home parks, complexes, and
subdivisions containing manufactured homes of Classes A, B, or C or any
combination thereof.
   (B)   Accessory uses permitted: community open spaces, recreational areas,
management or office headquarters, swimming pools, tennis courts, and other
uses clearly incidental to a manufactured home park.
   (C)   Conditional uses permitted:
      (1)   Incidental retail uses such as barber and beauty shops, self-
service laundries, news and novelty stands, snack bars, commissaries, and the
like, operated solely for the convenience of the residents of the park;
      (2)   Nursery schools and day nurseries, provided a fenced-in play area
is provided; and
      (3)   Home occupations in accordance with the standards set forth in §
155.007.
   (D)   Minimum area for park, subdivision, or complex: no manufactured home
park, complex, or subdivision shall be developed on a site of less than ten
acres in area. Development may be permitted in stages in accordance with an
approved development plan, provided that at least ten spaces are to be
developed for use initially.
   (E)   The number of manufactured homes permitted in a park, subdivision, or
complex shall not exceed eight per gross acre.
   (F)   Dimension and area requirements for individual lots.
Maximum height                           35 feet
Maximum lot coverage                     30%
Minimum front yard                       20 feet
Minimum lot area, with sanitary sewer    2,400 square feet
Minimum lot area, without sanitary sewer 1 acre
Minimum lot width                        35 feet
Minimum rear yard                        20 feet
Minimum side yard                        10 feet
 
   (G)   Application for the creation or enlargement of a manufactured home
park, complex, or subdivision shall be made to the Winchester-Clark County
Planning Commission. The application shall include a development plan. The
application and development plan shall be in the form and contain such
information as the Planning Commission may require. When the application and
development plan shall have been approved, the project shall be developed in
accordance with the plan approved, and no substantial change may be made
without the prior approval of the Planning Commission. A zoning permit shall
not be issued until a permit has been issued by the state pursuant to the
state’s Manufactured Home, Mobile Home, and Recreational Vehicle Community Act
of 2002, as amended from time to time, or its successor. In addition to the
zoning permit for the entire park, a building permit or certificate of
occupancy is required for each individual lot.
   (H)   Any enlargement or extension of an existing manufactured home park,
complex, or subdivision shall be in accordance with the requirements of this
subchapter and a zoning permit shall be obtained for such enlargement or
extension in the same manner as for a new park, complex, or subdivision.
   (I)   All manufactured home parks shall have access to an existing public
street, and all lots within the park shall have access to a public street or to
an interior street within the park. A manufactured home park may have either
public or private streets, but in either instance, the streets shall be
constructed in accordance with the Land Subdivision Regulations of Winchester
and the county.
(Prior Code, § 7.1) (Ord. 29-83, passed 12-27-1983)
§ 155.111 PLANNED RECREATION DISTRICT.
   (A)   The intent of this district is to provide for the timely and
appropriate development of those areas of the county which, because of natural
or human-made physical features, such as forest or wilderness area, streams,
lakes, unique topography or particular forms of development, are an asset which
requires special consideration by the Planning Commission.
   (B)   Principal uses permitted:
      (1)   Uses permitted and as regulated in the R-1 District;
      (2)   Commercial campground or camping area;
      (3)   Marina or boat dock, including the servicing and storage of boats;
and
      (4)   Public parks and recreation areas.
   (C)   Accessory uses permitted: accessory uses permitted and as regulated in
the R-1 District.
   (D)   Conditional uses permitted:
      (1)   Retail uses such as self-service laundries, snack bars,
commissaries, and the sale of gasoline, oil, and marine supplies when
incidental and accessory to a permitted principal use; and
      (2)   Motels and recreational vehicle parks, private commercial
recreational areas other than those permitted as principal use, and
restaurants.
   (E)   The dimension and area requirements shall be the same as those
associated with the district in which the use involved is first permitted,
except that the requirements for residential uses shall be those associated
with the R-1 District.
   (F)   Parking requirements may be found in §§
155.165 to
155.168.
   (G)   Sign requirements shall be the same as those associated with the
district in which the use involved is first permitted, except that the
requirements for residential uses shall be those associated with the R-
1 District.
(Prior Code, § 7.2) (Ord. 30-83, passed 1-11-1984)
§ 155.112 PLANNED DEVELOPMENT DISTRICT.
   (A)   The purpose of the Planned Development District is to permit the
combination of a variety of uses in a single planned project and thus encourage
innovating design and economy of space for urban development. The dimension
area requirements involved shall not be varied unless a planned development
project is approved by the Planning Commission.
   (B)   Principal uses permitted:
      (1)   Agriculture and accessory agricultural structures; and
      (2)   Farm dwellings.
   (C)   Special uses permitted:
      (1)   Planned development project for residential, professional office,
commercial, or light industrial uses. The procedure for planned development
projects shall be followed;
      (2)   Residential or commercial subdivisions; and
      (3)   Planned development project for designated public uses.
   (D)   Special regulations:
      (1)   The initial final plat of a planned development project or
subdivision in a planned development district shall comprise at least five
acres wholly within a planned development district and shall show the purposed
design for development and use of that entire project area. Such a project
thereafter may be expanded on adjacent land according to the planned
development or subdivision procedure as applicable with no minimum acreage
required provided the expansion is for the same principal use as the initial
five-acre development and may be incorporated as an integral extension of the
original plan. The effect of a planned development project on surrounding uses
and the recommendations of all officially adopted plans shall be considered in
determining the approval or disapproval of a project;
      (2)   (a)   The Planning Commission shall require the dedication or
reservation of a right-of-way, as authorized by the subdivision regulations to
provide access to interior land in planned development districts.
         (b)   All access to arterial streets serving planned development
districts shall be approved according to the standards contained in the zoning
order.
      (3)   When a tract of land under five acres in a planned development
district is under one ownership and that owner has owned no adjoining land at
any time since the effective date of the zoning order, such a tract may be
platted as a planned development project or subdivision.
   (E)   Dimension and area regulations: the dimension and area requirements
for each use involved shall be those associated with the zoning district
wherein the use is first permitted.
   (F)   An approved development plan may be amended only by the Planning
Commission after a public hearing has been held on said proposed amendment. The
procedure to be followed in amending a development plan shall be the same
procedure as the procedure required for the original approval of said plan.
   (G)   A copy of the approved development plan shall be filed in the office
of the Enforcement Officer and shall be used thereafter as a basis for the
issuance of all building permits and certificates of occupancy, and such
building permits and certificates of occupancy shall be issued only in
conformance with said development plan or any properly approved amendment to
said plan.
(Prior Code, § 7.3)
§ 155.113 HAZARDOUS DEVELOPMENT DISTRICT.
   (A)   The intent of this district is to protect persons and property from
the hazards of development within areas which are subject to flooding or water
inundation, landslides, or unstable soil conditions, by limiting the uses
permitted within such areas to those which do not involve human habitation and
are generally not affected by the aforementioned hazardous conditions.
   (B)   Principal uses permitted:
      (1)   Agriculture, including dairying, and animal and poultry husbandry;
      (2)   Public parks and recreation areas, open spaces;
      (3)   Equipment and material storage yards and salvage yards, provided
that they are enclosed on all sides by a solid fence or wall not less than six
feet high;
      (4)   Private recreation areas, uses, and facilities such as hunting and
shooting clubs, excluding structures used for temporary or permanent human
residency; and
      (5)   Parking areas.
   (C)   Conditional uses permitted: sanitary landfill area or dumps, mineral
extraction, mines, quarries, gravel pits, airports, landing strips, and
petroleum or inflammable liquid storage.
   (D)   Prohibited uses: residential structures.
(Prior Code, § 7.4) (Ord. 30-83, passed 1-11-1984)
§ 155.114 CROSSROADS COMMUNITY DISTRICT.
   (A)   The purpose of this district is to enable rural settlements to
continue to exist and allow for limited residential growth and commercial
expansion necessary to fulfill the daily need of the residents. This district
is further intended to be a receiving area for development rights to permit
increased density while creating less development in the farm oriented areas.
   (B)   Those uses permitted and as regulated in the following districts: R1-
A through R-1E, R-2 through R-6, P-1, and B-1. Dimension and area requirements
as well as sign requirements shall be the same as those associated with the
district in which the use is first permitted.
   (C)   Any parcel within an identified cross community is eligible for the
crossroad community zoning classification. However, the minimum site for any
new development shall be five acres and may be under single or multiple
ownership. Development may be permitted in stages and include a mixture of land
uses.
   (D)   Existing parcels containing less than five acres shall also be
eligible for crossroad community zoning classification in instances where a
change in use is requested.
   (E)   Each individual use shall be located on a parcel of not less than one
acre, unless density is increased by the use of Transferred Development Rights
(TDRs).
   (F)   Each crossroad community development shall include a plan to ensure
orderly growth, street interconnectivity, and provisions for storm water runoff
control. Adequate public facilities shall be available to provide fire
protection and the treatment of sanitary sewer waste. Any single use on a
parcel of one or more acres shall utilize a disposal system reviewed and
approved by the county’s Health Department. On those parcels where density is
greater than one per acre and the disposal system is mechanical in nature, this
system must be accepted for maintenance by an approved agency. The location of
the expanded residential and commercial uses shall fill in around the existing
community by construction of connecting streets. The growth of the crossroads
community shall be consistent with the small village character of the area.
   (G)   A Crossroads Community District shall be utilized only in areas
designated by the Planning Commission after amending the Comprehensive Plan.
Prior to this designation, a committee of eight shall be formed to receive
comment from the residents and owners of the affected area to determine the
appropriateness of a Crossroads Community designation. The committee shall be
appointed jointly by the County Judge/Executive and the Planning Commission
Chairperson and shall be composed of four persons who either reside or own
property within two miles of the crossroads, one citizen at large, one member
of the County Fiscal Court, one Planning Commission member, and one member of
the Comprehensive Plan Update Committee existing at the time of the
appointment. The Committee shall elect its own Chairperson. If a Crossroads
Community is determined to be appropriate, then the Committee shall determine
the boundaries of the district.
(Prior Code, § 7.5) (Ord. 99-1, passed 3-24-1999)
GENERAL DEVELOPMENT REGULATIONS
§ 155.125 COORDINATION WITH SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS.
   (A)   In all cases where land is to be subdivided, a subdivision for the
purpose of eventual development of lots of any kind (residential, commercial,
or industrial), the provisions of the Winchester-Clark County Subdivision
Regulations shall apply in addition to the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   It is desirable that access points to arterial streets serving all
zoning districts shall be located no more frequently than once every eighth to
quarter mile. Topography and traffic volumes shall determine the exact
locations. Heavy arterial traffic volumes demand greater access spacing. Along
any arterial street where subdivided land and its minor streets are not
sufficiently developed to permit acceptably spaced access points the
Winchester-Clark County Planning Commission (hereinafter known as the Planning
Commission) may approve the platting of temporary access points and may require
that temporary access points shall be eliminated by the developer when minor
streets or marginal access streets are extended to the approved permanent
access points. Such requirements shall be listed as special conditions on the
recorded final plat. Access points shall also meet federal and state standards
where applicable.
(Prior Code, § 8.1)
§ 155.126 WATER SUPPLY AND SEWAGE DISPOSAL.
   It shall be unlawful to construct any building or occupy any mobile home
without water supply and sewage disposal facilities approved by the County
Health Officer. Wherever water or sewer mains are accessible, buildings and
mobile homes shall be connected to such mains. In every other case, individual
water supply and sewage disposal must meet the requirements established by the
county’s Health Department and the state’s Department of Health.
(Prior Code, § 8.2) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.127 REGULATION OF PRINCIPAL BUILDING.
   Only one principal building and permitted accessory structure may be erected
on any lot or parcel of land, unless a development plan has been approved by
the Commission pursuant to §
155.130 allowing multiple principal structures. A billboard may be considered a
principal structure if so designated in this chapter. Temporary structures are
permitted during construction only, and Class A, B, or C mobile homes may be
utilized as temporary structures. Temporary occupancy shall not exceed one year
during construction of a residence nor two years during construction of other
projects, provided, however, that the Enforcement Officer may grant an
extension of time for good cause shown.
(Prior Code, § 8.3) (Ord. 29-83, passed 12-27-1983; Ord. 9-88, passed 5-24-
1988)
§ 155.128 PLANNED DEVELOPMENT PROJECT REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Intent. The planned development project regulation is intended to
permit the development of land for a purpose permitted within the zoning
district in which located, and to increase the flexibility of design and
encourage innovation by providing for the waiving of dimensional requirements.
A planned development project may be permitted in those zoning districts where
it is designated as a special use under the zoning district regulations or may
be permitted in any district after an amendment to the zoning map. A planned
development project may depart from literal conformance with individual lot
dimension and area regulations. A planned development project may be under
single or divided ownership. All planned development projects shall be subject
to the following regulations.
   (B)   Procedure. When a planned development project is proposed, the
procedure for subdivision approval as set forth in the Winchester-Clark County
Subdivision Regulations shall be followed in its entirety even though the
ownership of land may not be divided. A preliminary plat and final plat, both
approved by the Planning Commission, shall be required for every planned
development project. The Planning Commission may establish a schedule of
reasonable fees to be charged for plat review. The project shall be developed
according to the approved final plat. Zoning permits and certificates of
occupancy shall be required for each building according to the requirements of
this chapter.
   (C)   Uses and densities. The uses of premises and development densities in
a planned development project shall conform with the permitted uses and
densities of the zoning district in which it is located when it is permitted as
a special use. If a planned development project is proposed which includes uses
or densities that are not permitted in the zoning district where it is proposed
or not permitted in any zoning district, the project may be permitted after an
amendment to the zoning district in conformance with the requirements of this
chapter. The amendment may be made after the conditional approval of the
preliminary plat and shall be valid only for that project as approved.
   (D)   Standards. In any planned development project, although it is
permissible to depart from literal conformance with the individual lot
dimension and area regulations, there shall be no reduction in the total
equivalent lot area, parking area, and loading and unloading area requirements
that would be necessary for the equivalent amount of individual lot development
in the zoning district where it is located unless an amendment is made to
permit a greater density according to the requirements of this chapter.
   (E)   Special conditions. The Planning Commission shall attach reasonable
special conditions to ensure that there shall be no departure from the intent
of this chapter. The planned development project shall conform with all such
conditions. Because a planned development project is inherently more complex
than an individual lot development and because each such project must be
tailored to the topography and neighboring uses, the standards for such
projects cannot be inflexible. The Planning Commission may attach special
conditions based on all of the following standards in addition to imposing the
standards for total area, parking area, and loading and unloading areas. The
Planning Commission may also attach any other reasonable special conditions.
      (1)   It is desirable that access points to all arterial streets shall be
located no more frequently than once every eighth or quarter mile. The Planning
Commission may approve the plotting of temporary access points in conformance
with the subdivision regulations.
      (2)   Wherever there is an abrupt change in uses (i.e., residential to
commercial) it is desirable that a buffer area of open space or protective
planting be placed between them which will protect each use from the
undesirable effects of the other.
      (3)   Parking and other areas used at night shall be adequately lighted,
and private areas shall be adequately protected from such lighting and any
other lighting from public areas. Public streets may also require protection
from excessive glare of lighted areas.
   (F)   Amendment. An approved development plan may be amended only by the
Planning Commission after a public hearing has been held on said proposed
amendment. The procedure to be followed in amending a development plan shall be
the same as the procedure required for approval of development plans.
(Prior Code, § 8.4)
§ 155.129 CLASSIFICATION OF MANUFACTURED HOMES.
   For the purposes of this chapter, manufactured homes are divided into four
classes as follows.
   (A)   Class A manufactured homes. A Class A manufactured home is one which:
      (1)   Is certified by the Mobile Home Manufacturer’s Association and the
state’s Department of Housing, Building, and Construction as meeting all
federal and state construction and safety standards, (herein called
“construction and safety standards”); and
      (2)   Is installed in accordance with the following requirements (herein
called “acceptable installation standards”);
         (a)   It shall be permanently attached and installed on a permanent
foundation in accordance with the manufacturer’s installation specifications,
which installation specification shall have been approved by the U.S.
Department of Housing and Urban Development, and in accordance with the local
building code applicable to single-family dwellings;
         (b)   All wheel, trailer-tongue, and hitch assemblies shall be removed
prior to installation;
         (c)   It shall be permanently connected to an approved water and sewer
system and shall comply with all public health requirements governing plumbing
installations; and
   (B)   Standards. When installed, meets all of the following standards
(herein called “acceptable appearance standards”) designed to achieve
acceptable similarity in appearance between the manufactured home and the site-
built home in this community.
      (1)   A poured concrete or masonry block skirting wall shall be
constructed beneath and along the entire perimeter of the manufactured home,
even if said wall is not structurally required by the manufacturer’s
installation specifications.
      (2)   The minimum width of the main body of the manufactured home as
assembled on the site shall not be less than 24 feet as measured across 65% of
the total length of the home.
      (3)   The roof shall have a pitch of not less than two and one-half feet
of rise for each 12 feet of horizontal run, and eaves that shall overhang six
inches on the gable sides and 12 inches on the eave sides, is constructed or
roofing materials acceptable under, and installed in accordance with the local
code applicable to single-family dwellings.
      (4)   All exterior walls shall be constructed of nonreflective siding
materials which will have the appearance of wood or masonry, regardless of
their actual composition, and shall be applied in accordance with the local
building code applicable to residential construction.
   (C)   Class B manufactured home. A Class B manufactured home is one which
meets the “construction and safety standards” and the “acceptable installation
standards”, but which fails to meet the “acceptable appearance standards”.
   (D)   Class C manufactured home. A Class C manufactured home is one which
fails to meet either the “construction and safety standards” or the “acceptable
installation standards”, or both, but is nevertheless found on inspection to be
safe and fit for residential occupancy.
   (E)   Class D manufactured home. A Class D manufactured home is one which
fails to meet the “construction and safety standards” or the “acceptable
installation standards”, or both, and is found on inspection to be unfit for
human occupancy.
(Prior Code, § 8.5) (Ord. 28-83, passed 12-27-1983)
§ 155.130 DEVELOPMENT PLAN.
   (A)   Intent and purpose. The purpose of this section is to establish and
define development plans which may be utilized for a wide variety of planning
related procedures. This section outlines the content and procedure for
submission, review, and approval, of all development plans required by the
zoning ordinance and subdivision regulations unless another procedure or
different contents are specified elsewhere in this chapter.
   (B)   Where required. Development plans shall be required as follows.
      (1)   Development plans in conjunction with zone map amendment requests.
Development plan approval shall be required with any zoning map amendment
request.
         (a)   All applications for zoning map amendment shall require the
submission and approval of both a preliminary development plan and a final
development plan prior to development of the property. The preliminary
development plan may be submitted in conjunction with the zoning map amendment
request, but is not required. However, a certified plat, identifying the parcel
to be rezoned and indicating bearings and distance with the accompanying
written boundary description must be submitted with the zone map amendment
request.
         (b)   The Commission, in its discretion, may waive the requirement for
the submission and approval of a preliminary development plan, a final
development plan, or both, if the Commission finds that there will be minimal
impact on the neighborhood or the subject property.
      (2)   Development plans required for multiple principal structures as
permitted by §
155.127. Development plans required by §
155.127 to permit more than one principal structure and its accessory
structures on a lot or a parcel of land shall be submitted to the Commission,
in accordance with the provisions of this subchapter.
   (C)   Development plan procedures. The following shall be the procedure for
Planning Commission consideration of any development plan.
      (1)   Filing. To formally request Planning Commission action on the
development plan, the developer shall file three completed copies of the plans
required by the Commission.
      (2)   Review. The Planning Commission staff and concerned agencies shall
review the development plan, and make recommendations to the Commission’s
Subdivision Committee. The Subdivision Committee will review all
recommendations, and then forward their recommendations to the Commission.
      (3)   Commission action.
         (a)   No development plans shall be considered for action by the
Commission until they have been reviewed by the Subdivision Committee. All
development plans shall be approved or disapproved within 90 days of the date
they are formally filed for Commission action. However, in case of a
development plan filed in conjunction with a map amendment request, the
Planning Commission may postpone action of the development plan until after the
legislative body has made its decision on the map amendment request.
         (b)   The Commission will review the Subdivision Committee’s
recommendation and then act for approval, conditional approval with conditions
noted, postponement, or disapproval. The Commission may modify or disapprove
the development plan if it finds the plan does not comply with the requirement
of this chapter, and when applicable, the land subdivision regulations, or if
it finds there are existing or potential substantial flood, drainage, traffic,
topographic, or other similar problems relating to the development of the
subject property.
   (D)   Types of development plans. There shall be a preliminary development
plan and a final development plan, defined as follows.
      (1)   Preliminary development plan. A preliminary development plan is a
site plan by which, at the early stages of development design, the Commission
may consider, approve, and restrict many major aspects of the development
without requiring an undue amount of final design work on the part of the
developer. The preliminary development plan is less detailed and specific than
a final development plan in terms of exact arrangement of buildings, parking
areas, open spaces, access points, and any other site design features. No
building permits can be issued based upon a preliminary development plan.
      (2)   Contents of preliminary development plan. A preliminary development
plan shall contain the following information at a minimum:
         (a)   A title block containing the plan name, development plan type,
name and address of developer and plan preparer, and written scale;
         (b)   The boundary of the subject property and the record plan name or
owner’s name of all adjoining property;
         (c)   A vicinity sketch, oriented in the same direction as the design
scheme;
         (d)   Topography with contour intervals as shown on the available
United States Geological Survey (USGS) sheets;
         (e)   Location, arrangement, and approximate dimensions of existing
and proposed driveways, walkways, parking areas and arrangement of spaces,
points of ingress and egress, and other vehicular and pedestrian rights-of-way;
         (f)   Location of any proposed or existing streets within or abutting
the subject property;
         (g)   Screening, landscaping, buffering, recreational, and other open
space areas;
         (h)   Approximate size, location, height, floor area, area
arrangement, and use of proposed existing buildings and signs;
         (i)   Storm drainage areas, floodplains, conceptual drainage controls
and storm water retention, and any other designated environmentally sensitive
or geologic hazard area;
         (j)   Proposed and existing easements for utilities or other purposes;
         (k)   Areas of substantial existing trees including those located
along fence rows and drainage areas along with a general description of the
type and size of such trees;
         (l)   A statistical summary of all pertinent site data, including site
area, zoning, building coverage and floor area, parking, open space, and the
like;
         (m)   An owner’s certification, signed and witnessed as follows: “I
(We) do hereby certify that I am (we are) the only owner(s) of the property
shown hereon, and do adopt this as my (our) development plan for the property”;
and
         (n)   A Commission’s certification to be signed by the Commission’s
Secretary if and when the plan is fully approved as follows: “I do hereby
certify that his or her development plan was approved by the Planning
Commission”.
      (3)   Final development plan. A development plan from which a building
permit will be sought. A final development plan is intended to deal with site
design issues at a detailed level and to actually dictate the approved
locations of building, parking areas, open spaces, access points, and any other
site design features, that vary from those requirements for the uses permitted
and regulated by the dimension and area requirements for that zoning
classification.
      (4)   Contents of final development plan. All information required for
preliminary development plans as required under division (D)(1) above,
divisions (D)(2)(a) through (D)(2)(n) above, and that the plan information
shall be of an exact nature, rather than approximate or general.
   (E)   Amendments to development plans.
      (1)   Amendments to approved development plans can be made only by
official Planning Commission action. Content and format and procedures shall be
as for the original submission. However, amendments which fully meet the
requirements set forth hereinafter for minor amendments may be approved and
certified by the Commission’s staff without further action by the Commission.
      (2)   Minor amendments are intended to expedite approval in those
situations where amendments are of minor significance and generally relate to
the shifting of previously approved spaces. Such amendments shall not decrease
the overall land area in yards, or other open spaces; shall not increase
building ground area coverage, floor area, or height; or increase the number of
dwelling units; shall not increase the number or size or signs; shall not
change the location of any street and shall not increase the number, or change
the location of street access points; except that shifts in the approved access
location not exceeding 25 feet may be approved as a minor amendment where the
access point is not located on an arterial street.
   (F)   Development plans and preliminary subdivision plan may be combined. It
is recognized that for certain development situations it can be advantageous to
both the developer and the Commission to combine the functions and requirements
for development plans and preliminary subdivision plans in order to streamline
the development approval process while not reducing the quality of the review.
   (G)   Preliminary or final subdivision plan may be substituted for
development plans required in conjunction with map amendment request. It is
recognized that in certain cases, a preliminary or final subdivision plan would
be as appropriate or more appropriate to be considered in conjunction with a
map amendment request than a development plan. Generally, such situations
involve developments where placements of structures will be tightly controlled
by the streets, lot pattern, and the requirements for placement of structures
within the zone, and where the developer sees fit to have plans prepared at the
required level of detail for subdivision plans prior to receiving a zone change
approval.
(Prior Code, § 8.6) (Ord. 36-86, passed 12-10-1987; Ord. 2008-19, passed 9-24-
2008)
§ 155.131 RURAL RESIDENTIAL CLUSTER DEVELOPMENT REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Application process. The applicant must utilize the planned
development application process, including a proposed development plan for a
rural residential cluster development. The approval process will include a
public hearing as required for a zone change.
   (B)   Hearing request. The applicant must formally request a public hearing
as required by KRS Chapter 100 by filing the appropriate application, three
copies of the proposed cluster development plan, and paying the appropriate
fees.
   (C)   Plan procedures. The development plan procedures outlined in §
155.130 shall be followed. In addition, the plan must disclose the following:
lot coverage, height of buildings, maximum building height, construction type,
deed restrictions, contiguous properties with road frontages for each property,
and crossing points on the access road, if reserved by owner of set-aside.
   (D)   Minimum requirements. The following minimum acreage and road frontage
requirements shall apply.
      (1)   Cluster development shall contain not less than 60 acres in
addition to the acreage contained in the cluster envelope.
      (2)   For each house in the cluster development (excluding bonus sites),
there must be at least 125 feet of frontage on a road publicly maintained at
the time of the adoption of this section.
      (3)   Cluster developments are permitted on farms with less than 125 feet
of public road frontage provided the following conditions are met:
         (a)   At the date of the adoption of this section, insufficient road
frontage existed to comply with the following road frontage requirements;
         (b)   All other cluster requirements are fully met; and
         (c)   Owner shall have purchased or contracted to purchase sufficient
development rights to meet the road frontage requirements.
      (4)   The area of the cluster envelope shall not exceed an average of one
and one-half acres per house site, but there shall be no minimum lot size.
   (E)   Set-aside requirements.
      (1)   The owner shall be required to reserve or grant a conservation
easement to or for the benefit of the Planning Commission barring further
development or subdivision of the set-aside for a period of not less than 25
years, after which the status of the land may be reviewed as a part of the
comprehensive planning process and a change in the classification of the
property may be recommended if in agreement with the goals and objectives of
the plan.
      (2)   The set-aside shall contain not less than ten acres per house site,
including bonus sites.
      (3)   Nothing herein shall be construed to limit the agricultural
activities or practices which may be conducted on the set-aside; provided,
however, that the owner of the set-aside may voluntarily enter into private
covenants running with the land agreeing not to engage in certain agricultural
activities or practices.
   (F)   Location of cluster development.
      (1)   The set-aside must completely surround the cluster envelope.
      (2)   There must be a minimum distance of 125 feet between all points of
the cluster envelope and the property line.
      (3)   All points of the cluster envelope must be set back from the public
road a minimum of 500 feet; provided, however, that the Planning Commission
shall have discretion in grant exceptions to the minimum setback if the Board
finds that the viewshed is protected by topography, mature woodlands, or other
natural features.
   (G)   Number of house sites permitted.
      (1)   A maximum of 12 house sites are permitted unless additional sites
are permitted pursuant to the following provisions.
      (2)   The number of house sites permitted may be increased by 50% up to a
maximum of six additional house sites by the use of transferred development
rights (TDRs).
      (3)   A maximum of four additional “bonus sites” may be permitted, in the
discretion of the Planning Commission, for such features as underground
utilities, creative or innovative design of the cluster or of the roads, or
other creative or innovative design features.
      (4)   Two additional house sites shall be allowed for each additional 250
feet the cluster envelope is set back from the public road over and above the
500-foot minimum set-back.
      (5)   If there is an existing or proposed house site on the parent tract,
the number of permitted house sites in the cluster shall be reduced by two.
   (H)   Requirements relating to physical improvements, landscaping, and
buffering.
      (1)   The minimum right-of-way for the access road shall be 30 feet; and
the minimum pavement width shall be 20 feet.
      (2)   Unless dedicated and accepted for maintenance by the county, roads
shall be maintained by the owner of the parent tract or by a homeowner’s
association as required by the deed restrictions.
      (3)   The access road shall be of traditional road contours with minimum
site disturbance, and shall have an entrance engineered for compliance with
storm water runoff requirements and design standards.
      (4)   Signs identifying the cluster shall not exceed 32 square feet
including the printed matter and any supporting or decorative features.
      (5)   Each cluster development shall be permitted only a single access
point to the existing public road.
      (6)   Only one cluster development may be served by a single access road.
      (7)   The maximum cul-de-sac length of 500 feet as provided in § 153.096
shall not apply to cluster developments.
      (8)   The cluster envelope must be completely fenced off from the parent
tract by a fence having the following minimum requirements: nine gauge wire, 12
inch stays, six inch line posts set 12 feet on center. The installation and
maintenance of the fence shall be the responsibility of the owner of the set
aside, unless otherwise provided in the deed restrictions.
      (9)   Landscaping and/or buffering shall be required. The design must
provide for maximum preservation of existing topography. If located in the set-
aside, the owner of the set-aside shall be responsible for its maintenance.
      (10)   All physical improvements, including fencing, utilities,
landscaping, and roadways shall be installed or a surety bond posted for the
completion of the improvements prior to approval of the final plat.
   (I)   Access roads. Even though a cluster development access road may
hereafter be dedicated and accepted for maintenance by the county or other
governmental agency, frontage on such road shall not be considered public road
frontage under §
155.080 so as to entitle the owner to develop or subdivide the property
fronting on such access road.
(Ord. 99-1, passed 3-24-1999)
§ 155.132 FAMILY FARM HOMESITE.
   Family farm homesites are permitted under the following requirements and
conditions.
   (A)   Qualifying farm.
      (1)   Two classes of qualifying farms are created for the construction of
family farm home site:
         (a)   Class 1. The farm must be at least seven acres and less than 25
acres in size and have been owned by the owner/applicant for at least five
years; and
         (b)   Class 2. The farm must be at least 25 acres in size and have
been owned by the owner/applicant for at least five years.
      (2)   The farm must have been owned by the owner/applicant for at least
five years.
   (B)   Qualifying grantee. The grantee of a family farm home site must be an
immediate family member/spouse of the grantor.
   (C)   Size and maximum number of home sites. Each home site shall contain
not less than one acre.
      (1)   If the farm meets the criteria for Class 1, then each home site
shall contain not less than one acre. The maximum number of family home sites
shall be limited to one in addition to the parent tract. The recorded plat
shall state that no additional family farm home sites may be created on the
parent tract.
      (2)   If the farm meets the criteria for Class 2, then each home site
shall contain not less than one acre. The maximum number of family farm home
sites shall be limited to three in addition to the parent tract The recorded
plat shall state that no additional family farm home sites may be created on
the parent tract.
   (D)   Access. All family farm home sites shall be located on an access
easement at least 20 feet in width providing access to a public road. The
access easement shall be shown on the record plat. No new entrances shall be
permitted on county roads.
(Prior Code, § 8.8) (Ord. 99-1, passed 3-24-1999; Ord. 2014-17, passed 12-2-
2014)
§ 155.133 TRANSFER OF DEVELOPMENT RIGHTS (TDRs).
   (A)   The purpose of this section is to provide means by which the
development rights may be transferred from sending parcels to receiving
parcels.
   (B)   A development right is calculated as being equal to an area of land
having 250 feet of road frontage on an existing (at the date of adoption of
this regulation) county road with a minimum depth of 200 feet within an A-
1 Zoning District, provided, however, that there are no transferable
development rights in the urban planning area as set forth in the community’s
Comprehensive Plan. In those instances where a parcel of land has no road
frontage on an existing county road, but was on a recognized county road on
February 27, 1974, and was owned by an immediate family member on or before
December 31, 1966, development rights shall be calculated at the rate of one
per ten acres.
   (C)   For the purpose of determining TDR multiples, the county is divided
into four areas as follows.
      (1)   Area #1. Bordered on the west by Fayette County, the north by I-64,
the east by a CSX Railroad line that runs from Winchester to Ford and on the
south by Madison County.
      (2)   Area #2. Bordered on the west by Fayette County, North by Bourbon
County, the east by an overhead electric transmission line that runs from the
Montgomery/Bourbon County line to the Mountain Parkway near Morris Road, and
bordered on the south by I-64 and the Mountain Parkway.
      (3)   Area #3. Bordered on the west by an electric transmission line and
Area #2, the north and east by Montgomery County and Powell County, and on the
south by the Mountain Parkway.
      (4)   Area #4. Bordered on the north by the Mountain Parkway, the east by
Powell County, the south by Estill and Madison County and the west by the CSX
Railroad and Area #1. Note, not included in any of these areas is the portion
of land designated as the urban planning area.
   (D)   TDR Multiples include the following.
      (1)   The following chart shall be used to determine TDR multiples.
Location of Sending Parcel Location of Receiving Parcel TDR Multiple
Location of Sending Parcel Location of Receiving Parcel TDR Multiple
Scenic corridor            Non-scenic corridor          2.0
Area #1                    Area #2                      1.5
Area #2                    Area #3                      1.5
Area #3                    Area #4                      1.5
Area #1                    Area #3                      2.0
Area #2                    Area #4                      2.0
Area #1                    Area #4                      2.5
 
      (2)    A transfer from one property to another within the same area has
TDR multiple of one.
      (3)   Development rights may not be transferred from a higher numbered
area to a lower numbered area.
   (E)   Procedures include the following.
      (1)   Sending parcels. The following procedure must be followed by the
owner of the sending parcel.
         (a)   The owner shall file with the Planning Commission a statement
certified by a registered surveyor or engineer as to the length of the owner’s
frontage on the applicable public road, and may be required to furnish such
other information as the Commission may require in order to identify the
property and determine the number of development rights attributable to the
property.
         (b)   Development rights may be transferred only by deed and the
transfer shall be effective only if approved by the Planning Commission. The
deed must state the total number of development rights contained in the sending
parcel, the number of development rights transferred by the deed, and the
number of development rights remaining in the sending parcel. A transfer of
development rights shall be effective only upon recording of the deed
transferring same, with Planning Commission approval endorsed thereon.
      (2)   Receiving parcels. Prior to approval of the deed, the Planning
Commission must first approve the grantee’s plan for incorporating the
transferred development rights (TDRs).
   (F)   The Planning Commission shall adopt subdivision regulations to permit
TDRs to be used to increase densities use in crossroads community districts.
(Prior Code, § 8.9) (Ord. 99-1, passed 3-24-1999)
GENERAL ZONING DISTRICT REGULATIONS
§ 155.145 APPLICATION OF ZONE AND DISTRICT REGULATIONS.
   The regulations set by this chapter within each zone and district shall be
minimum or maximum limitations, as appropriate to the case, and shall apply
uniformly to each class or kind of structure or land, and particularly, except
as hereinafter provided.
   (A)   No building, structure, or land shall hereafter be erected,
constructed, reconstructed, moved, or structurally altered except in conformity
with all of the regulations herein specified for the zone and district in which
it is located unless otherwise specifically permitted in this chapter.
   (B)   No building or other structure shall hereafter be erected or altered:
      (1)   To exceed the height, bulk, or floor area ratio;
      (2)   To accommodate or house a greater number of families;
      (3)   To occupy a greater percentage of lot area; or
      (4)   To have narrower or smaller rear yards, front yards, side yards, or
other open spaces than herein required, or in any other manner contrary to the
provisions of this chapter, except as provided in §§
155.065 to
155.067.
   (C)   No part of a yard, open space, off-street parking, loading space, or
other special use area required about or in connection with any building or
land for the purpose of complying with this chapter shall be included as part
of a yard, open space, off-street parking, loading space, or other special use
area similarly required for any other building or land unless otherwise
specifically permitted in this chapter.
   (D)   No yard or lot existing at the time of adoption of this chapter shall
be reduced in dimension or area below the minimum requirements set forth
herein. Yards or lots created after the adoption of this chapter shall meet at
least the minimum requirements established by this chapter.
   (E)   There shall be no more than one principal structure and its accessory
structures on any lot or parcel of land unless otherwise specifically permitted
in this chapter.
   (F)   Only those uses specifically permitted or substantially similar to
permitted uses are permitted in each zone or district.
   (G)   No structure shall be erected on any lot or tract of land which does
not adjoin and have direct access to a street or other public right-of-way for
at least 20 feet unless otherwise specifically permitted in this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 9.1) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.146 YARD REQUIREMENTS ALONG LESS RESTRICTED ZONE BOUNDARY LINE.
   Along any zone boundary line, any abutting side yard or rear yard on a lot
adjoining such boundary line in the less restricted zone shall have a minimum
width and depth equal to the required minimum width and depth of such yards in
the more restricted zone.
(Prior Code, § 9.2)
§ 155.147 CONVERSION OF DWELLINGS.
   The conversion of any building into a dwelling, or the conversion of any
dwelling so as to accommodate an increased number of dwelling units or
families, shall be permitted only within a zone in which a new building for
similar occupancy would be permitted under this chapter and only when the
resulting occupancy will comply with the requirements governing new
construction in such zone with respect to minimum lot size, floor area,
dimensions of yards, and other open spaces, and off-street parking. Each
version shall be subject also to such further requirements as may be specified
after applying to such zone. The aforesaid requirements with respect to yards
and other open spaces shall not apply if the conversion will not involve any
exterior structural changes.
(Prior Code, § 9.3)
§ 155.148 LOCATION AND HEIGHT OF ACCESSORY BUILDINGS.
   (A)   No accessory building shall be erected in any required court in any
yard other than a rear yard; provided, however, that an accessory building may
be erected as part of the principal building, or, if at least six feet
therefrom, may be connected thereto by a breezeway or similar structure,
provided all yard and court requirements of this chapter for a principal
building are complied with, provided further, however, that a temporary
accessory structure may be permitted subject to the following conditions.
      (1)   For any one business such structure may be permitted for not more
than ten consecutive days not more than twice in any calendar year.
      (2)   Such structures shall be located so as not to interfere with the
movement or safety of vehicle or pedestrian traffic, either on the public way
or business premises.
      (3)   A permit must be issued pursuant to the provisions of §
155.036.
   (B)   Accessory buildings shall not exceed one story in height, and shall be
distant at least six feet from alley lines and at least five and one-half feet
from lot lines of adjoining lots in a Residential Zone, provided, however, that
an accessory building may be constructed on a side or rear lot line, not an
alley lot line, by common consent of the adjoining property owners concerned.
   (C)   Where a corner lot adjoins in the rear to a lot in a Residential Zone,
no part of an accessory building within 25 feet of the common lot line in the
rear shall be nearer a side street lot line than the least depth of any front
yard existing or as required, whichever is less, along such side street for a
principal building on such adjoining lot, and in no case shall any part of such
accessory building be closer to the side street lot line than the main building
to which it is accessory.
(Prior Code, § 9.4) (Ord. 98-4, passed 6-10-1998) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.149 TRAFFIC VISIBILITY ACROSS CORNER LOTS.
   In any Residential Zone on any corner lot, no fence, structure, or planting
shall be erected or maintained within 20 feet of the intersection of the two
street pavement edges.
(Prior Code, § 9.5)
§ 155.150 BUILDINGS IN REAR OF PRINCIPAL BUILDING.
   No existing building in the rear of a principal building on the same lot may
be used for residential purposes unless such use is approved as a special
exception by the Board of Zoning Adjustment, which shall determine whether
adequate vehicular access will be provided by a public street and that the
criteria for group housing set forth in this chapter are met.
(Prior Code, § 9.6)
§ 155.151 USE AND PARKING OF RECREATIONAL VEHICLES.
   No recreational vehicle shall be used for living, sleeping, or housekeeping
purposes on any lot in a residential zone; nor shall any recreational vehicle
be parked or stored in or upon any public right-of-way in a residential zone,
except for the purpose of loading or unloading the same. For purposes of this
section, the term RECREATIONAL VEHICLE is defined to include boats, boat
trailers, travel trailers, pick-up campers, or coaches (designed to be mounted
on automotive vehicles), motorized dwellings, tent trailers, and the like.
(Prior Code, § 9.7) (Ord. 2-93, passed 1-26-1993)
§ 155.152 SPECIAL YARD PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Yards generally. Except as otherwise specified herein, every lot shall
have a front yard and a rear yard for the least depths of which shall not be
less than those specified for the respective zone and every lot shall have a
side yard on each side, which shall not be less than the side yard as specified
for the zoning district in which it is located.
   (B)   Front yards.
      (1)   Double frontage lots. Double frontage lots shall meet the front
yard requirements of the district or districts in which they are located on
both of the streets upon which they front.
      (2)   Exceptions for existing alignment. In any zoning district, except
Business or Industrial Zones, where any lot lies between and adjacent to two
lots with existing buildings and all of the following conditions exist:
         (a)   All three of said lots lie within the same block;
         (b)   The average depth of the front yards of the two adjacent lots is
less than the minimum permitted within the zoning district; and
         (c)   At least one of the existing buildings lies within 100 feet of
the side lot line of the subject lot; then the minimum front yard permitted for
such lot shall be the average of the front yards of the two adjacent lots, but
in no event less than ten feet.
      (3)   Yard on street side on lot adjoining or facing residential zoning.
On a lot in any nonresidential zone sharing the same block front with a lot in
any Residential Zone the minimum front yard required shall equal in depth the
front yard required for that Residential Zone.
      (4)   Front yards on through lots. On any lot which runs through a block
from street to street, a front yard as otherwise required in the zone shall be
provided along each street lot line.
      (5)   Front yards which may be varied. Where the front wall of a building
is not parallel with the front lot line or is broken or otherwise irregular,
the average depth of the front yard shall not be less than the otherwise
required front yard; provided, however, that such front wall shall at all
points be within five feet of the otherwise required front yard depth.
   (C)   Side yards
      (1)   Side yards decreased for narrow lot. For each foot by which an
existing lot of record at the time of enactment of this chapter is narrower
than 50 feet and where the owner of record does not own any adjoining property,
one and one-half inches may be deducted from the required least width of any
side yard for building, not exceeding two and one-half stories in height;
provided, however, that no side yard shall be narrower at any point than three
feet in any case.
      (2)   Side yards increased for deep buildings. In any zone where a side
yard is required, the least width of each side yard shall be increased by one
inch for each foot by which the side wall of a building adjacent to a side yard
exceeds 50 feet in depth.
      (3)   Side yard exceptions for row dwellings. In the case of attached
dwelling units, the entire structure shall be considered as a single building
with respect to side yard requirements.
      (4)   Side yards which may be varied. Where the side wall of a building
is not parallel with the side lot line or is broken or otherwise irregular, the
average width of the side yard shall not be less than the otherwise required
least width; provided, however, that such side yard shall not be narrower at
any point than one-half the otherwise required side yard nor narrower than
three feet in any case.
      (5)   Side yard for an addition to an existing building. On any lot in a
residential zone, where the principal structure does not meet the minimum
required side yard for that zone, and the side yard is legally nonconforming,
additions to the principal structure may be made which have the same side yard
as the original structure. In no case shall the addition be closer than three
feet to the adjoining lot line.
   (D)   Rear yards. Where the rear wall of a building is not parallel with the
rear lot line or is broken or otherwise irregular, the average depth of the
rear yard shall not be less than the otherwise required rear yard; provided,
however, that such rear yard shall not be less than one-half the otherwise
required rear yard at any point, or less than 20 feet in any case.
   (E)   Projections.
      (1)   Covered porches, stairways, terraces, or other similar features,
the floor level of which is not over three feet above the average finished
grade and which do not extend above the level of the first floor of the
building, when open and unclosed, may project into a required front, side, or
rear yard not more than eight feet, provided that such covered porches,
stairways, terraces, or other similar features conform to the provisions of
division (D) above.
      (2)   Outside stairways may extend not more than three feet into any
required side yard; nor more than five feet into any required rear yard.
      (3)   Chimneys, flues, belt courses, leaders, sills, pilasters, lintels,
ornamental features, cornices, gutters, and the like, may extend not more than
24 inches into any required yard, provided they are at least three feet from
all lot lines.
      (4)   Notwithstanding any other provision of this section, no projection
as listed above shall extend into any required side yard more than one-half the
width of such yard, nor within ten feet of the front lot line nor five feet of
the rear lot line, nor within three feet of accessory building, provided,
however, that such limitations shall not apply to terraces and steps within
required yards, or to a loading dock, or tailboard in connection with an
industrial siding.
   (F)   Front yard driveways in residential zones.
      (1)   On any lot containing a detached single-family dwelling, where no
enclosed garage is provided, and where the width of the driveway exceeds 25% of
the width of the lot at the established building line, the driveway shall
extend beyond the front wall of the residence into the side or rear yard for a
distance of at least 20 feet.
      (2)   No front-facing garage may be located within 25 feet of the public
street or road right-of-way.
      (3)   In any case, the width of a front yard driveway shall not exceed
40% of the width of the lot at the established building line.
      (4)   No front yard driveway shall have a finished grade slope greater
than one foot to eight feet.
(Prior Code, § 9.8) (Ord. 4-92, passed 3-11-1992; Ord. 98-12, passed 11-24-
1998; Ord. 2002-2, passed 2-5-2002; Ord. 2002-29, passed 12-18-2002; Ord. 2004-
19, passed 8-25-2004)
§ 155.153 TELECOMMUNICATIONS TOWERS.
   Telecommunications towers shall be permitted in all zoning districts subject
to the following standards.
   (A)   Any legally permitted and constructed telecommunications towers, as of
the effective date of this section, shall be exempt from these regulations;
except when discontinued for a period of 12 months in accordance with §
155.051. In such cases, the applicant or utility shall be required to follow
the procedures listed herein.
   (B)   All applications for telecommunications towers and related equipment
shall be in accordance with KRS Chapter 100, KRS Chapter 278, and KAR 807.
   (C)   All applicants for telecommunications tower approval shall file a
development plan in accordance with §
155.130 for public hearing before the Planning Commission, except where co-
location is proposed as hereinafter provided.
   (D)   In residential districts, the following setbacks shall apply to
telecommunications towers and related structures:
      (1)   The minimum front, side, and rear yards in the applicable district,
or 25 feet, whichever is greater;
      (2)   For each two feet of height the tower exceeds the maximum allowable
building height within the district, one foot shall be added to the minimum
setback;
      (3)   The total height shall not exceed 150 feet; and
      (4)   The tower shall be a monopole structure.
   (E)   In Agricultural Districts, the minimum front, side, and rear yard
requirements shall be increased by one foot for each two feet in height the
tower exceeds the maximum allowable building height.
   (F)   In all residential and agricultural districts, and wherever possible,
all telecommunications towers shall be designed and constructed so as to
minimize any potential negative aesthetic, environmental, or visual impacts.
This may include the use of camouflage and/or additional screening techniques.
   (G)   In commercial, industrial, and professional office districts, the
following requirements shall apply.
      (1)   The minimum front, side, and rear yard requirements shall be
increased by one foot for each two feet in height the tower exceeds 50 feet.
      (2)   Where adjacent to residential or agricultural districts, the
setback requirements for the adjacent district shall apply with respect to the
property line adjacent to the residential or agricultural district.
      (3)   In those districts where no setbacks are required, the minimum
front, side, and rear yards shall be 25 feet plus one foot for each two feet of
height the tower exceeds 50 feet.
   (H)   The following method shall be used to measure the height of the
telecommunications towers; beginning at the base of the tower, at ground level
and including any support structures, to the top of the main tower structure,
excluding the antennas assembly.
   (I)   Co-location of antennas on existing structures (i.e.,
telecommunications towers, buildings, and water towers) is encouraged. Where
co-location is proposed, the applicant must file with the application a written
consent executed by the owner of the existing structure, and in such case, no
development plan shall be required.
   (J)   The Planning Commission shall review and approve or deny an
application in accordance with KRS Chapter 100. Such review and approval or
denial shall be made, in writing, within 60 days of the date the application is
submitted for Planning Commission review, unless the applicant or utility
requests, in writing, an extension of time.
   (K)   The following landscaping requirements shall apply.
      (1)   All telecommunications towers shall have one or more rows of
evergreen trees or shrubs capable of forming a continuous hedge six feet in
height. The hedge shall screen the base of the tower and related structures
from public view. A break in the hedge, not to exceed 15 feet in width, shall
be allowed for access of maintenance personnel and vehicles.
      (2)   New or existing vegetation, earth berms, existing topographic
features, wall opaque fences, and features other than those listed may be used
to meet these requirements upon finding by the Planning Commission that the
same degree of screening required above is achieved by the proposed
alternative.
      (3)   No screening shall be required where explicitly prohibited by the
Federal Communications Commission regulations. In such cases, the applicant or
utility shall provide the Planning Commission with a written statement of the
facts explaining the prohibition of locally required screening.
(Prior Code, § 9.10) (Ord. 2000-2, passed 2-9-2000)
§ 155.154 BUILDINGS CONTAINING 50,000 SQUARE FEET OR MORE.
   Construction of structure(s) containing 50,000 square feet or more shall
comply with the Winchester/Clark County Big Box Design Standards. (Separate
document available in the office of the Winchester/Clark County Planning and
Zoning Commission.)
(Ord. 2003-11, passed 1-28-2004)
OFF-STREET PARKING AND LOADING
§ 155.165 PARKING REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   In all districts except B-2, there shall be provided at the time any
building or structure is erected or enlarged, off-street parking spaces, either
in garages or parking areas, conforming with the provisions of this section.
Use Unit of Measurement Parking Area or Parking Spaces Required per Unit of
                        Measurement
                                                     Parking Area or Parking
Use                       Unit of Measurement        Spaces Required per Unit
                                                     of Measurement
Bed and breakfast home    Each room available for    One, in addition to any
                          rent                       other required parking
Bowling alleys            Each alley                 Five
Churches, theaters,
stadiums, sports arenas,  Each four seats            One
or auditoriums other than
incidental to a school
For all such floor space  Each 200 square feet of
in excess of 10,000       such area                  One
square feet
                          Each four seats available  One
Funeral homes or          under maximum occupancy     
mortuaries                Each funeral vehicle       One
                          Each dwelling unit         One
                          Each two employees         One
Hospital, sanitariums,
convalescent homes,       Each two beds              One
asylums, orphanages,      Each two employees         One
convents, and homes for   Each staff member          One
the aged
Hotels                    Each four bedrooms         One
                          Each four employees        One
Kindergartens, nursery                               Three spaces for the first
schools, and child-care                              12 and one for each
facilities, except when   Number of children         additional ten or fraction
located in a permitted    enrolled                   thereof, in addition to
church or private school                             any other required off-
                                                     street parking
                          Each two washing machines,
Laundromat, self-service  dryers, and dry cleaning   One
                          machines
                          Each two employees at
Manufacturing or          maximum employment on a    One
industrial uses           single shift, and           
                          Each vehicle operated by   One
                          the firm involved
Medical or dental clinics 200 square feet of floor   One
                          area
Motels, tourist courts,   Each living unit or guest  One
and tourist homes         bedroom
Multiple-family dwellings Each dwelling unit         Two
One-family dwellings      Each dwelling unit         Two
Private clubs or lodges   Each four members          One
Professional office       400 square feet of floor   One
                          area
                          Each four seats at maximum
Restaurants, taverns, or  capacity or 200 square     One
night clubs               feet of floor area
                          (whichever is greater)
Retail stores having a
low volume of customer
parking such as furniture                            50% less than required for
and appliance stores,     Same as for other retail   other retail stores, but
motor vehicle and         stores                     not less than five in any
machinery sales, floor                               case
and wall covering
establishments, and paint
stores
Retail stores, including
discount stores, except    
as otherwise specified                               
herein:                   Each 100 square feet of     
For the first 2,500       such area                  One but not less than five
square feet of floor                                in any case
space                     Each 125 square feet of     
                         such area                  One
For the next 2,500 square Each 150 square feet of     
feet of floor space       such area                  One
For the next 2,500 square Each 175 Square feet of    One
feet of floor space       such area
For the next 2,500 square
feet of floor space
Rooming and boarding      Each four beds             One, but not less than two
houses                                               in any case
Senior high schools,
business schools, trade   Each two staff members     One
schools, colleges, and    Each four classroom seats  One
universities
Two-family dwellings      Each dwelling unit         Two
 
   (B)    Parking area dimensions.
A B C D E F G
A  B C  D     E     F  G
0  8 23 8     23    20 12
30 9 18 17    18    20 15
45 9 18 19    12.67 20 15
60 9 18 20.17 10.33 24 20
75 9 18 19.67 9.33  24 20
90 9 18 18    9     24 20
A - angle of parking (in degrees)
B - stall width
C - stall length
D - stall depth
E - curb length
F - two-way drive width or double loaded drive width
G - one-way drive width or single loaded drive width
 
      (1)   Stall width (B) may be reduced by one foot for low turnover uses
excluding parallel parking.
      (2)   Stall length (C) may be reduced by two and one-half feet when a
clear overhang of two and one-half feet is provided.
      (3)   Interior parking radii shall be a minimum five feet.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/cf75951e4e99738f740e9342fd403c07c11a6c55/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1806.png]
 
(Prior Code, § 10.1) (Ord. 97-17, passed 1-14-1998; Ord. 98-4, passed 6-10-
1998; Ord. 2003-8, passed 8-27-2003; Ord. 2005-23, passed 1-11-2006)
§ 155.166 EXISTING PARKING SPACE.
   Existing off-street parking provided for any building or use at the time of
adoption of the zoning order shall not thereafter be reduced unless it exceeds
the requirements of this chapter. Any existing building or use not provided
with conforming parking space shall be provided with off-street parking space
in conformance with this order at the time of any structural alteration of the
building or expansion of the use.
(Prior Code, § 10.2)
§ 155.167 REQUIRED OFF-STREET PARKING SPACE.
   (A)   When any building is built or any use of premises is initiated, they
shall be provided with sufficient off-street parking space on the premises so
that they will generate no automobile parking on any street as a result of
their normal activity.
   (B)   If the off-street parking capacity is exceeded and street parking is
generated more often than six times during a six-month period, this shall be
considered as resulting from normal activity, and additional off-street parking
shall be provided.
   (C)   The Board of Zoning Adjustment shall interpret the amount of parking
space required for any building or use, assisted by the following standards,
whenever the Enforcement Officer is unable to apply the following standards
literally or when he or she determines a parking space deficiency according to
the standard above. In either case, he or she shall apply to the Board for an
original interpretation.
(Prior Code, § 10.3)
§ 155.168 ADDITIONAL PARKING STANDARDS.
   The Board of Zoning Adjustment may raise the standards listed in §
155.165 when necessary to conform with §
155.167, and shall use similar criteria of floor area, employment, or capacity
to interpret standards for buildings and uses not specifically listed in §
155.165.
(Prior Code, § 10.4)
SIGN REGULATIONS
§ 155.180 INTENT.
   This subchapter provides sign standards that allow legitimate signage for
agricultural, residential, professional office, business, and industrial
activities while promoting signs that:
   (A)   Reduce intrusions and protect property values;
   (B)   Minimize undue distractions to the motoring public;
   (C)   Protect the tourist industry by promoting a pleasing community image;
and/or
   (D)   Enhance and strengthen Winchester/Clark County’s economic stability.
(Ord. 2014-1, passed 3-12-2014) (Ord. 2018-11, passed 6-27-2018)
§ 155.181 SCOPE.
   These provisions apply to the display, construction, erection, alteration,
location, and maintenance of all new and existing signs within Winchester and
the county.
(Ord. 2014-1, passed 3-12-2014)
§ 155.182 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABANDONED SIGN. Signage that has been neglected and fallen into disrepair.
   ATTRACTION BOARD. Copy is changed manually or electronically.
   AWNING SIGN. Applied directly to the surface of an awning; defined as a
shelter supported entirely on a wall and made of non-rigid material supported
by a frame.
   BANNER SIGN. Made of non-rigid material with no enclosing framework.
   BILLBOARD. Signage intended for lease to a variety of businesses,
organizations, and/or individuals. In such case, the sign itself is the income
generator and the primary commercial use of the property.
   BULLETIN BOARD. Allows the manual or electronic change of copy.
   CANOPY SIGN. Applied directly to the surface of a canopy; defined as a
permanently roofed shelter covering a sidewalk, driveway, or similar area.
Canopies may be supported by a building, columns, poles, braces, or a
combination of both.
   DOUBLE-FACED SIGN. Two faces either set parallel or up to a 45-degree angle.
Any two sign faces set at an angle greater than 45 degrees shall be considered
two separate signs.
   ELECTRONIC MESSAGE DISPLAY SYSTEM. Copy which uses rotating reflective
discs, direct illumination, rotating veins, light emitting diodes (LEDs) or
liquid crystal diodes (LCDs), or other digital devices and is changed by a
central computer.
   FLASHING or BLINKING. Intermittent or sequential illumination for the
purpose of attracting attention to the sign.
   FREESTANDING SIGN. Attached to the ground by columns, poles, braces, or
other means and not attached to any building,
   GOVERNMENT SIGN. Temporary or permanent, erected by a government employee in
the performance of their professional duties.
   HANDBILL. Printed or written material, circular, leaflet, pamphlet, or
booklet designed for distribution on vehicles or other property (does not
include postal distribution).
   ILLEGAL SIGN. Does not meet the requirements of this chapter and has not
been identified as a legal, nonconforming sign.
   ILLUMINATED SIGN. Emits or reflects artificial light from any source.
      (1)   DIRECTLY ILLUMINATED. Lighted by an unshielded light source
(including neon tubing) which is visible as a part of the sign and where light
travels directly from the source to the viewer’s eye.
      (2)   INDIRECTLY ILLUMINATED. Light source projects light onto the
exterior of the sign surface, or onto the building where the sign is located.
      (3)   INTERNALLY ILLUMINATED. Light source is within the sign, with a
transparent or translucent background or cover which silhouettes letters or
designs.
   INCIDENTAL SIGN. Signs used in conjunction with the performance of a
business and/or professional establishments with a maximum square footage of
three square feet and four feet in height when installed on a pole.
   INTERSTATE SIGN. Designed to be seen from the interstate.
   LIGHT POLE SIGN. Signs up to 12 square feet in size attached to light poles
which are owned and operated by the property/business owner. No more than two
LIGHT POLE SIGNS per road frontage and maintain a minimum ground clearance of
at least seven feet. Approved as a conditional use in B-3 and B-4 Zoning
Districts.
   MENU BOARD. Freestanding signs placed at drive-through lanes of restaurants.
   MOBILE SIGN. Affixed to a frame having wheels or capable of being moved.
MOBILE SIGNS do not have a permanent foundation and cannot withstand the wind
load stress requirements of the adopted building code; designed to stand free
from a building. The removal of wheels from such a sign or temporarily securing
a sign of this type shall not prevent it from being classified as a MOBILE SIGN
within this definition. This includes signage placed in a truck bed or on a
trailer designed to be pulled behind a vehicle.
   MONUMENT SIGN. Attached to a permanent foundation or decorative base and not
attached to or dependent for support from any building, pole, post, or similar
upright.
   NONCONFORMING SIGN. Legally erected but does not comply with the current
regulations for the zone in which it is located.
   NON-ILLUMINATED SIGN. Does not emit or reflect artificial light from any
source.
   PORTABLE SIGN. Small sign, easily transported by hand, placed outside during
business hours and brought into the business after hours, usually tent style or
A-frame.
   PROJECTING SIGN. Attached directly to a building, which extends
perpendicular no more than five feet from the building facade or not past the
sidewalk line (whichever is less).
   ROOF SIGN. Projects above the cornice of a flat roof or the ridgeline of a
gabled or hipped roof. In determining the top edge of the roof, calculation
shall not include cupolas, pylons, chimneys, or other projections above the
roofline.
   ROTATING OR MOVING SIGN. Any portion of which moves by mechanical means or
the wind; does not refer to changing copy with an electronic message display
system.
   SIGN. Any copy (including material used to differentiate the copy from the
background) which is applied to a surface as a means of identifying,
advertising, announcing, or illustrating products, services, and/or events.
   SIGN CLEARANCE. The vertical distance between the lowest point of any sign
and the grade at the base of the sign.
   SIGN COPY. Any word, figure, number, symbol, or emblem affixed to a sign.
   SIGN HEIGHT. The vertical distance measured from the highest point of the
sign, including the frame and any embellishments to the bottom of the base of
the sign.
   SIGN SETBACK. The horizontal distance between the property line and a sign.
The measurement shall be taken at the closest point between the property line
and any part of the sign.
   SIGN SURFACE. The part of the sign on which the message is displayed.
   SQUARE FOOT. A unit of area equal to one foot by one foot square.
   STREET FRONTAGE. Property line that lies adjacent to street right-of-way.
   TEMPORARY SIGN. Intended to be displayed for not more than 14 continuous
days or more than eight times per calendar year.
   VEHICLE SIGNAGE. Signage painted directly on a vehicle or attached
magnetically.
   WALL SIGN. Attached directly to a building; includes mansards, canopies,
awnings, and signs attached to a roof which do not project above the roofline.
   WINDOW DISPLAY. Merchandise or other objects placed inside a building to be
viewed from outside the building.
   WINDOW SIGN. Attached to or located within three feet of the interior of a
window and which can be seen through the window from the exterior of the
structure.
(Ord. 2014-1, passed 3-12-2014; Ord. 2018-11, passed 6-27-2018)
§ 155.183 SIGNS EXEMPT FROM PERMITTING IN ALL ZONES AND DISTRICTS.
   The following signs are exempt from the provisions of this subchapter:
   (A)   Signs not visible beyond the boundaries of the property upon which
they are located;
   (B)   Government signs that are placed by government officers in the
performance of their professional/elected duties;
   (C)   Temporary or permanent signs erected by public utility companies or
temporary signs erected by construction companies and in the performance of
their professional duties;
   (D)   Vehicle signage when incorporated directly on a vehicle either by
paint, magnets, wrapped, and the like;
   (E)   Effective January 1, 2019, temporary signage up to four square feet
placed within Business and Residential Zoning Districts on or after April 15
and removed by the last day of May. Temporary signage up to four square feet
placed within Business and Residential Zoning Districts on or after October 1
and removed by November 15;
   (F)   Temporary signage up to 32 square feet placed within Agricultural and
Industrial Zoning Districts on or after April 15 and removed by May 1.
Temporary signage of 32 square feet or placed within Agricultural and
Industrial Zoning Districts on or after October 1 and removed by November 15;
   (G)   Temporary signs for a new business for up to 30 consecutive days from
the first day of business. Exempt signage shall only be displayed on the
property where the new business is located;
   (H)   Temporary signage placed by real property owners, real estate
institutions, agents and brokers, and financial institutions in the performance
of their professional duties;
   (I)   Window signage;
   (J)   Temporary signage of three square feet or smaller when placed on
residential property;
   (K)   Historic markers issued by local, state, and federal organizations;
and
   (L)   Change of copy on any sign where the framework or other structural
elements are not altered.
(Ord. 2014-1, passed 3-12-2014; Ord. 2018-11, passed 6-27-2018)
§ 155.184 PERMIT REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   No sign regulated by this subchapter shall be displayed, erected,
relocated, or altered unless all necessary permits have been issued by the
Department of Planning and Community Development. Applicants shall submit an
application form to the Department before any permit may be issued. Failure to
obtain a sign permit prior to the installation of a sign may result in a fine
doubling the cost of the sign permit.
   (B)   Property owner shall obtain a certificate of appropriateness from the
Historical Preservation Commission (HPC) for signage proposed within the
Historic District Overlay (HDO). Applications are available in the Planning and
Community Development office and online at the HPC website.
   (C)   Signs shall only be erected or constructed in compliance with the
approved permit.
   (D)   Freestanding and monument signs require a building permit for the
footer. Applicants shall also obtain an electrical permit for signs that
require electrical service. Final inspections for building permits and
electrical permits require a minimum of 24-hour notice to the city’s Building
Inspector and/or state Electrical Inspector.
   (E)   Signs permitted as an accessory to a legal, nonconforming use shall be
subject to the regulations of the zone in which the nonconforming use is
located.
(Ord. 2014-1, passed 3-12-2014; Ord. 2018-11, passed 6-27-2018)
§ 155.185 NONCONFORMING SIGNS.
   (A)   A legal, nonconforming sign may continue in existence as long as it is
properly maintained in good condition.
   (B)   These provisions shall not prevent the repair or restoration to a safe
condition of any sign, but a nonconforming sign shall not be:
      (1)   Changed to another nonconforming sign except where only the face or
copy is changed;
      (2)   Structurally altered so as to increase the degree of nonconformity
of the sign;
      (3)   Expanded or enlarged;
      (4)   Re-established after its removal; or
      (5)   Moved to a new location on the building or lot.
(Ord. 2014-1, passed 3-12-2014)
§ 155.186 ILLEGAL SIGNS.
   All illegal signs are subject to immediate enforcement action as outlined in
§§
155.235,
155.236, and
155.999.
(Ord. 2014-1, passed 3-12-2014)
§ 155.187 GENERAL REQUIREMENTS.
   All signs in all zones shall meet the following requirements.
   (A)   Illuminated signs shall be located in a fashion which prevents all
direct rays of light from shining beyond the property lines of the lot on which
the sign is located.
   (B)   No light, sign, or other advertising device shall be designed or
erected to imitate or resemble any official traffic sign, signal, or device or
use any words, phrases, symbols, or characters implying the existence of
danger, or the need to stop or maneuver the vehicle.
   (C)   No sign shall be attached to or painted on the surface of any tree,
utility pole, or street light.
   (D)   Projecting signs must have maintain a ground clearance of no less than
seven nor more than eight feet above the sidewalk.
   (E)   Neon or other lighted tubing signs shall not be permitted except where
such lighting is used behind solid lettering to produce a “halo” effect, or
where it is used indirectly. Neon lighting may not be used to outline
buildings, structures, or ornamental features.
   (F)   No sign, except for government signs, may be located within the sight
triangle of any intersection. Refer to §§ 153.095 to 153.100.
   (G)   No sign may be placed in or project into the public or private street
right-of-way, except as specifically permitted herein.
   (H)   Freestanding, monument, and projecting face sign area shall be
computed as follows:
      (1)   Double-faced signs shall have only one face counted in calculating
the area;
      (2)   Sign with more than two faces shall have the area calculated by
summing the area of all sign faces and dividing by two;
      (3)   The area enclosing the perimeter of each cabinet shall be
calculated to determine the area. The perimeter of the measurable area shall
not include embellishments (e.g., pole covers, framing, or decorative roofing)
provided there is no written copy on such embellishments; and
      (4)   Maximum height shall be measured from the finished grade at the
center of the sign and shall include the sign’s base.
   (I)   Every sign, including those for which a permit is not required, shall
be maintained in good condition at all times.
   (J)   A business no longer in operation at the site, must remove their sign
face, paint, and/or cover of the signage within 45 days after the business has
vacated the property or 45 days after the receipt of a written notice from the
Code Enforcement Officer and/or Zoning Official. Failure to comply with the
written notice within the allotted time shall authorize the Code Enforcement
Officer and/or Zoning Official to remove the sign at the expense of the owner
of the building, structure, or lot where the sign is located. Nonconforming
signs within the Historical Overlay District may be preserved when found to be
of an historic significance by the Historic Preservation Commission.
Nonconforming signs located outside the Historical Overlay District may be
reviewed for historic significance by the Board of Adjustments.
   (K)   Freestanding and monument signs shall maintain a minimum setback of at
least ten feet from the property line. Signs legally existing prior to the
adoption of this subchapter shall be grandfathered in.
(Ord. 2014-1, passed 3-12-2014; Ord. 2018-11, passed 6-27-2018)
§ 155.188 PROHIBITED SIGNS IN ALL ZONES.
   The following signs and/or sign features shall be prohibited in all zones:
   (A)   Mobile signs;
   (B)   Roof signs that extend higher than the top of the roof;
   (C)   Abandoned signs;
   (D)   Any sign which emits any noise or odor;
   (E)   Freestanding signs which overhang any part of a building;
   (F)   Flashing or blinking signs;
   (G)   Signs in a public right-of-way; and
   (H)   Handbills.
(Ord. 2014-1, passed 3-12-2014; Ord. 2018-11, passed 6-27-2018)
§ 155.189 SIGNS REQUIRING A CONDITIONAL USE PERMIT IN ALL ZONES.
   (A)   Signs painted directly on a building.
   (B)   Only the Board of Zoning Adjustments shall have the authority to
approve sign variances or conditional use permits for signs unless the request
is made to the Planning Commission in conjunction with a Development Plan.
Applications for these signs shall be submitted and processed as outlined in §§
155.065 to
155.067.
(Ord. 2014-1, passed 3-12-2014; Ord. 2018-11, passed 6-27-2018)
§ 155.190 SIGNS PERMITTED BY SPECIFIC ZONE.
   Any sign not specifically permitted shall be prohibited.
   (A)   Agricultural Zone (A-1).
      (1)   Residence. One wall sign not exceeding one square foot in area.
      (2)   Home occupation. One wall sign not exceeding 12 square feet in
area.
      (3)   Principal uses permitted.
         (a)   Two signs per entrance if incorporated into a fence or wall
feature, or one freestanding sign per entrance. Signs shall not exceed 32
square feet in area each.
         (b)   Incidental signs (do not exceed three square feet in area nor
require sign permits).
      (4)   Conditional uses permitted.
         (a)   One freestanding sign for any other permitted or conditional use
not noted herein; signage shall not exceed 32 square feet in area and eight
feet in height;
         (b)   Incidental signs (do not exceed three square feet in area nor
require sign permits);
         (c)   One bulletin board, not exceeding 12 square feet in area and
eight feet in height; and
         (d)   One wall sign per building not exceeding 32 square feet in area.
   (B)   Mobile Home (MH) Zone.
      (1)   One freestanding sign per park entrance. Sign shall not exceed 32
square feet in area, eight feet in height, and shall have a minimum setback of
20 feet from any street.
      (2)   One wall sign per mobile home that shall not exceed one square foot
in area.
   (C)   Low Density Residential Zones (R-1A, R-1B, R-1C, R-1D, and R-1E).
      (1)   Residence. One wall sign not exceeding one square foot in area.
      (2)   Home occupation. One wall sign not exceeding six square feet in
area.
      (3)   Subdivision. One freestanding sign per entrance into the
subdivision not to exceed 32 square feet in area and eight feet in height.
      (4)   Conditional uses permitted.
         (a)   One freestanding sign shall not exceed 32 square feet in area
and eight feet in height;
         (b)   One wall sign shall not to exceed 12 square feet in area;
         (c)   Incidental signs (do not exceed three square feet in area nor
require sign permits); and
         (d)   One bulletin board shall not exceed 12 square feet in area and
eight.
   (D)   High Density Residential Zones (R-2, R-3, R-4, R-5, and R-6).
      (1)   Single-family homes. All single-family homes within these zones
shall comply with the signage regulations for low density residential zones
regulated under division (C) above.
      (2)   Multi-family residential buildings.
         (a)   One freestanding sign shall not exceed 32 square feet in area,
eight feet in height, and shall have a front yard setback of 20 feet.
         (b)   One wall sign per building shall not exceed 12 square feet in
area.
         (c)   Incidental signs (do not exceed three square feet in area nor
require sign permits).
      (3)   Conditional uses permitted.
         (a)   One freestanding sign shall not exceed 32 square feet in area
and eight feet in height.
         (b)   One wall sign per building shall not to exceed 12 square feet in
area.
         (c)   One bulletin board shall not exceed 12 square feet in area and
eight feet in height.
         (d)   Incidental signs (do not exceed three square feet in area nor
require sign permits).
   (E)   Standard signage permitted in all professional, commercial, and
industrial zones (P-1, B-1, B-2, B-3, B-4, I-1, and I-2).
      (1)   One freestanding or monument sign per street frontage with a
maximum of two signs per lot. Freestanding signs shall not exceed 75 square
feet in area, 25 feet in height, and shall have a minimum setback of ten feet
When street frontage permits two signs, the two freestanding signs may be
combined into one freestanding sign that shall not exceed 110 square feet in
area. For buildings with more than one occupying business, this freestanding
sign may list all businesses within the building. Monument signs shall not
exceed 60 square feet in area, eight feet in height, and shall have a minimum
setback of ten feet;
      (2)   One wall sign, canopy sign, or awning sign per street frontage with
a maximum of two signs per building. The maximum allowed area for all signage
in this category is 32 square feet or 15% of the wall area to which the sign,
canopy, or awning is attached (whichever is greater). Awnings shall have at
least seven feet of clearance when fully extended. When a building contains two
or more separate businesses, these requirements shall be applied separately to
the wall area of the portion of the building occupied by the individual
business;
      (3)   One wall sign per tenant or lessee not exceeding two square feet in
area;
      (4)   One attraction board either attached to the wall or attached to the
permitted freestanding sign not to exceed 32 square feet in area and eight feet
in height;
      (5)   One menu board per drive-through lane or drive-up curbside. Menu
boards shall not exceed 55 square feet in area and shall have a maximum height
of eight feet;
      (6)   Temporary signs; these include banners, inflatable signs, and
similar objects which have been installed in a temporary nature. Two temporary
signs per permit shall be allowed subject to the following conditions:
         (a)   Shall not exceed 50 square feet per sign where non-rigid
materials are used;
         (b)   Shall not exceed 32 square feet per sign where rigid materials
such as wallboard or plywood are used;
         (c)   Shall comply with the applicable regulations for the zone in
which they are located;
         (d)   Shall not remain in place for a period of more than 14
continuous days;
         (e)   Shall not be displayed for more than a total of eight times in
any calendar year; and
         (f)   Shall not be placed within the public right-of-way or the sight
triangle at intersections.
      (7)   One marquee shall not exceed 32 square feet in area, shall not
project more than eight feet from the building face to which it is attached,
and shall have a minimum clearance of eight feet;
      (8)   Incidental signs (do not exceed three square feet in area nor
require sign permits). One bulletin board, not exceeding 32 square feet in area
and eight feet in height; and
      (9)   Signs with electronic message display systems are prohibited in the
Downtown Historical Overlay and must be reviewed as a conditional use in the
following zoning districts: P-1 (Professional Office), B-1 (Neighborhood
Business) and B-2 (Downtown Business) Districts. Electronic message display
systems are permitted for property located within the B-3, B-4, I-1, and I-
2 Zoning Districts and may be incorporated into one freestanding or wall sign.
   (F)   Additional signage permitted in specific commercial and industrial
zones. Downtown Business Zone (B-2), in addition to the signage permitted in
division (E) above, the following signs shall be permitted.
      (1)   Permanent sidewalk sign. Where a building is located adjacent to
the public right-of- way, one non-illuminated, freestanding sign may be
permanently placed on the public sidewalk with the following restrictions:
         (a)   Sign shall not exceed five and one-half square feet in area;
         (b)   The edge of the sign shall not extend beyond the curb line;
         (c)   The maximum dimensions of the support frame shall not exceed
eight square feet in area (maximum 48 inches wide or 36 inches high); and
         (d)   The bottom of such support shall be seven feet above the
sidewalk and the vertical support shall be 24 inches from the curb.
      (2)   Portable sign. One may be permitted for each business entrance
subject to the following restrictions:
         (a)   Maximum surface area of the sign shall be six square feet per
face, maximum height of sign shall be three feet, and maximum width of the sign
shall be two feet; and
         (b)   A minimum 36 inches wide pedestrian travel-way shall be
maintained on the sidewalk. Signs may be designed with a changeable face and
shall be removed from the public sidewalk when the business is closed.
      (3)   Projecting sign. A projecting sign is allowed in a B-2 Zone in lieu
of a permanent sidewalk sign. A projecting sign shall not exceed 12 square feet
on each side and shall maintain a ground clearance of no less than seven nor
more than eight feet above the sidewalk. The edge of the sign facing the public
right-of-way shall not project more than five feet from the building facade and
cannot pass the sidewalk line. Wall signs and permanent sidewalk signs shall
not be installed in conjunction with a projecting sign, unless otherwise
approved by the Board of Adjustments.
   (G)   Highway Business Zone (B-3). In addition to the signage permitted in
division (E) above, the following signs shall be permitted.
      (1)   Shopping center malls larger than 100,000 square feet may have one
freestanding sign per street frontage with a maximum of 250 square feet per
sign face and a maximum height of 30 feet instead of a freestanding sign
measuring 75 square feet in area with a maximum height of 25 feet.
      (2)   One interstate sign for those businesses which lie within a 2,500-
foot radius of the center point of an interstate interchange overpass. This
interstate sign takes the place of either the permitted freestanding or wall
sign outlined in division (E) above. That is, these businesses may have a
combination of any two of these signs (interstate sign, freestanding sign, or
wall sign). Interstate signs are subject to the following restrictions:
         (a)   Shall not have an electronic message display system;
         (b)   Individual signs shall not exceed 250 square feet in area;
         (c)   Height (from the base to the top of the sign) shall not exceed
90 feet;
         (d)   The sign’s base shall be at least 90 feet from any residential
zoned property; and
         (e)   In addition to a sign permit, a building permit shall be
obtained prior to installation.
      (3)   Conditional uses permitted include light pole signs, signs up to 12
square feet in size attached to light poles which are owned and operated by the
property/business owner. No more than two light pole signs per road frontage
and maintain a minimum ground clearance of at least seven feet
   (H)   General Business, Light Industrial, and Heavy Industrial Zones (B-4,
I-1, and I-2). In addition to the signage permitted in division (E) above, the
following signs shall be permitted.
      (1)   Shopping center malls larger than 100,000 square feet may have one
freestanding sign per street frontage with a maximum of 250 square feet per
sign face and a maximum height of 30 feet instead of a freestanding sign
measuring 75 square feet in area with a maximum height of 25 feet.
      (2)   One interstate sign for those businesses which lie within a 2,500-
foot radius of the center point of an interstate interchange overpass. This
interstate sign takes the place of either the permitted freestanding or wall
sign outlined in division (E) above. That is, these businesses may have a
combination of any two of these signs (interstate sign, freestanding sign, or
wall sign). Interstate signs are subject to the following restrictions:
         (a)   Shall not have an electronic message display system;
         (b)   Individual signs shall not exceed 250 square feet in area;
         (c)   Height (from the base to the top of the sign) shall not exceed
90 feet;
         (d)   The sign’s base shall be at least 90 feet from any residential
zoned property; and
         (e)   In addition to a sign permit, a building permit shall be
obtained prior to installation.
      (3)   One billboard may be permitted subject to the following
restrictions:
          (a)   The property on which the billboard is located shall abut a
federal or state highway;
         (b)   The sign shall be the principal use; there shall be no other
buildings, freestanding signs, and the like on the lot;
         (c)   Signage face shall not exceed 720 square feet in area;
         (d)   The sign shall be located no closer than 300 feet to any other
structure;
         (e)   The sign shall be at least 150 feet away from any residential
zone or residential use;
         (f)   There shall be a 40-foot setback requirement from any right-of-
way;
         (g)   Maximum height shall be 35 feet; and
         (h)   A billboard containing an electronic message display system
shall:
            1.   Be static for at least eight seconds;
            2.   Change from one message to another in less than two seconds;
            3.   Not blink, scroll, or contain animation or video;
            4.   Be programmed to freeze in a static display if a malfunction
occurs; and
            5.   Shall comply with KAR Title 603, pertaining to billboards.
      (4)   Conditional uses permitted include light pole signs, signs up to 12
square feet in size attached to light poles which are owned and operated by the
property/business owner. No more than two light pole signs per road frontage
and maintain a minimum ground clearance of at least seven feet. Prohibited in
I-1 and I-2 Zones.
   (I)   Planned Development (PD) Zone. A permitted sign’s height, size,
location, and design features shall be determined by the sign requirements set
forth in the zone in which the proposed or existing use is first permitted.
(Ord. 2014-1, passed 3-12-2014; Ord. 2018-11, passed 6-27-2018)
§ 155.191 ADVERTISING ON INTERSTATE HIGHWAYS.
   No billboard shall be permitted adjacent to interstate or limited access
highways except in conformance with the setback requirements established by the
Federal Bureau of Public Roads, the state’s Transportation Cabinet, and the
requirements of this chapter with respect to the zoning district involved.
(Ord. 19-86, passed 9-15-1986; Ord. 2014-1, passed 3-12-2014)
§ 155.192 MAINTENANCE STANDARDS.
   Every sign including these signs for which a permit is not required shall be
maintained in good condition at all times.
(Ord. 19-86, passed 9-15-1986; Ord. 2014-1, passed 3-12-2014)
LANDSCAPE AND LAND USE BUFFERS
§ 155.205 INTENT.
   The intent of these guidelines is to provide a conservation plan to improve
the appearance of vehicular use areas and property abutting public rights-of-
way; to require buffering between non-compatible land uses; and to protect,
preserve, and promote the esthetic appeal, character, and value of the
surrounding neighborhoods; to promote public health and safety through the
reduction of noise pollution, visual pollution, air temperature, and artificial
light glare.
(Prior Code, § 13.1) (Ord. 94-6, passed 8-25-1994)
§ 155.206 SITES AFFECTED.
   (A)   New sites. No new site development, building, structure, or vehicular
use area should hereafter be created and used unless landscaping is provided as
required by the provisions of these guidelines.
   (B)   Existing sites. No property lines should be altered nor should any
building, structure, or vehicular use area be expanded, unless the minimum
landscaping provided by the provisions of these guidelines is provided for the
property to the extent of its alteration or expansion, and not for the entire
property.
(Prior Code, § 13.2) (Ord. 94-6, passed 8-25-1994)
§ 155.207 WHERE LANDSCAPE MATERIAL IS REQUIRED.
   This section describes the minimum requirements that shall be met in regard
to interior and perimeter landscaping for vehicular use areas, and perimeter
landscaping for non-compatible land uses areas.
   (A)   Perimeter landscaping requirements. Unless otherwise provided,
landscape materials shall be installed to provide a minimum of 50% winter
opacity and a 70% summer opacity between one foot above finished grade level to
the top of the required planting hedge, fence, wall, or earth mound within four
years after installation. The required landscaping should be provided either in
easements in certain zones or adjacent to vehicular use area. A “plant list”
shall be maintained by the Planning Department to provide more detailed
information on the acceptable plant material.
      (1)   Property perimeter requirements. When the following adjoins the
following, a minimum landscape easement of this average widths (with three feet
as the least dimension) is required, which will contain this material, to
achieve opacity required.
                           C. A minimum          D. Which will contain
A. When the B. Adjoins the landscape *1 easement this material *3 to
following   following      of this width is      achieve opacity
                           required              required.
                                        C. A minimum        D. Which will
A. When the         B. Adjoins the      landscape *1        contain this
following           following           easement of this    material *3 to
                                        width is required   achieve opacity
                                                            required.
                                                            One tree 40 feet of
                                                            lineal boundary,
                                        Ten feet, adjacent  OFT *2, from Group
1. Any Residential  Any Mobile Home     or astride to all   A, B, or C of plant
Zone except Mobile  District            common boundaries,  list plus
Home District                           including street    continuous six feet
                                        frontage            high planting,
                                                            hedge, fence, wall,
                                                            or earth mound.
2. Any Single-                          Ten feet adjacent
Family Residential  Any Multi-Family    or astride to all
Zone except Mobile  Residential         common boundaries   Same as 1(D)
Home District                           except street
                                        frontage.
                                                            One tree 40 feet of
                                                            lineal boundary,
3. Any Residential                      Six feet, adjacent  OFT *2, from Group
Zone including                          or astride to all   A or B of plant
Mobile Home         Any Office Zone     common boundaries   list plus
District                                except street       continuous six feet
                                        frontage            high planting,
                                                            hedge, fence, wall,
                                                            or earth mound.
4. Any Residential
Zone including      Any Business Zone   Same as 1(C)        Same as 3(D)
Mobile Home
District
                                                            One tree 40 feet of
                                        Twenty feet         lineal boundary,
5. Any Residential                      adjacent or astride OFT*2, from Group A
Zone including      Any Industrial Zone to all common       of plant list plus
Mobile Home                             boundaries except   continuous six feet
District                                street frontage     high planting,
                                                            hedge, fence, wall,
                                                            or earth mound.
                                        Fifteen feet
6. Any Office or                        adjacent or astride
Business Zone       Any Industrial Zone to all common       Same as 3(D)
                                        boundaries except
                                        street frontage
7. Any Professional Any Business Zone   Same as 3(C)        Same as 3(D)
Office Zone
8. Any Recreational Any zone except     Same as 3(C)        Same as 3(D)
Zone                Agricultural Zones
                                        Twenty feet for     One tree 30 feet
                                        residential zones   OFT *2, from Group
                    A freeway or        including Mobile    A or B of plant
9. Any zone except  arterial street     Home Districts and  list, plus
Agricultural Zones  prohibiting         ten feet for all    continuous six feet
                    driveways           other zones,        high planting,
                                        adjacent to freeway hedge, wall, fence,
                                        or arterial         or earth mound.
                                        Twenty feet for
                                        residential zones
                                        including Mobile
10. Railroads       Any zone except     Home District and
(except spur        Agricultural and    ten feet for all    Same as 9(D)
tracks)             Industrial Zones    other zones,
                                        adjacent to
                                        railroad
                                        boundaries.
                                        Fifteen feet
                    Utility substation, adjacent to all
11. Any property    junk yards,         boundaries, except
including street    landfills, sewage   only five feet for  Same as 9(D)
rights-of-way       plants, or similar  utility substations
                    uses                measured adjacent
                                        to the enclosure.
*1   Grass or ground cover shall be planted on all portions of easement not
occupied by other landscape material.
*2   OFT means “or fraction thereof”. Trees do not have to be equally spaced,
but may be grouped.
*3   To determine required area of landscape easement, multiply required
average width by length of common boundary. Using item 1(C) as an example, the
ten feet average required width times as assumed 100 feet of common boundary
equals 1,000 square feet of required landscape area. Thus, if some sections of
the easement are only three feet in width, other sections will have to be
greater than ten feet in width in order to obtain the required 1,000 square
feet of landscape area.
 
      (2)   Vehicular use area perimeter requirements. When the following
adjoins the following, a minimum landscape easement of this width is required,
which will contain this material *3 to achieve opacity required.
 
                                        C. A minimum        D. Which will
A. When the         B. Adjoins the      landscape *1        contain this
following           following           easement of this    material *3 to
                                        width is required   achieve opacity
                                                            required.
                                        Four foot minimum
                                        to all trees from
                                        edge of paving      One tree 40 feet of
                                        where vehicles      boundary of
1. Any residential                      overhang, and a     vehicular use area
office, educational Any vehicular use   three-foot strip    *2, OFT *4, from
institutional, or   area *2 on any      (that prohibits any Group A, B, or C,
business building   adjacent property.  overhang) for other plus a three foot
(except in B-                           areas, adjacent to  average height
2 Zones)                                portion of          planting, hedge,
                                        vehicular use area  fence, wall, or
                                        *2 that faces       earth mound.
                                        building on
                                        adjacent property.
                                                            One tree 40 feet
                    Any vehicular use   Same as 1.C. above  OFT *4 from Group A
2. Any public       area outside B-2    except applies to   or B, plus a three
right-of-way        (except vehicular   V.U.A. *2 portion   feet average height
(except freeways)   sales facilities or facing public or    continuous
                    service stations)   private street      planting, hedge,
                    in any zone.*2      right-of-way.       fence, wall, or
                                                            earth mound.
                                                            One tree 50 feet,
3. Any public or                                            OFT from Group A or
private right-of-   Any vehicular sales                     B, plus one low
way (except         area or service     Same as 2(C)        shrub ten feet OFT
freeways)           station.                                (opacity
                                                            requirements do not
                                                            apply).
                                        Three-foot strip
                    Any vehicular use   adjacent to the
4. Any public or    area (except        portion of a        The foot average
private right-of-   loading and         vehicular use area  height continuous
way (except         unloading areas) in *2 that faces a     planting, hedge,
freeways)           B-2.                public or private   fence, or wall.
                                        street right-of-
                                        way.
*1   These provisions may be included within the property perimeter required by
division (A)(1) above, where landscape easements are also applicable.
*2.   A vehicular use area (V.U.A.) is any open or enclosed area containing
more than 1,800 square feet of area and/or used by six or more, of any type of
vehicle, whether moving or at rest, including, but not limited to, parking
lots, loading and unloading areas, mobile home parks, and sale and service
areas. Driveways are considered to be vehicular use areas whenever they are
adjacent to public streets or other vehicular use elements described previously
in this paragraph (and intervening curbs, sidewalks, landscape strips, and the
like, do not eliminate adjacency).
*3   Grass or ground cover shall be planted on all portions of the easement not
occupied by other landscape material.
*4   OFT means “or fraction thereof”.
 
      (3)   Who provides easement. The landscape easement and material required
adjacent to any street under division (A)(2) above should be provided by the
property owner adjoining street, unless the authority building the street has
fully met all requirements on the street right-of-way. When adjacent to other
common boundaries, the landscaping easement and materials, may be placed on
either adjoining parcel, or astride the boundary, if both are owned and being
processed by the same owner; or generally should be placed on the activity
listed under divisions (A)(1) and (A)(2), when adjoining parcels having
different owners; or may be placed astride the boundary or adjoining parcels
having different owners if there is a written agreement, as a public records;
or should be placed on the activity or parcel being processed when adjoining
property is already developed with the exception of division (A)(1) item 9
above.
      (4)   Requirement conflicts. Whenever a parcel or activity falls under
two or more of the categories listed in the table of divisions (A)(1) or (A)(2)
above, only one category (that with the most stringent requirements) should be
enforced.
      (5)   Easement conflicts. The required landscape easement may be combined
with a utility or other easement as long as all of the landscape requirements
can be fully met, otherwise, the landscape easement should be provided in
addition to, and separate from, any other easement. Cars or other objects
should not overhang or otherwise intrude upon the required landscape easement
more than two and one-half feet, through the use of wheel stops or curbs.
      (6)   Existing landscape material. Existing landscape material should be
shown on the plan, and any material in satisfactory condition may be used to
satisfy these requirements in whole or in part when, in the opinion of the
public approval authority, such material meets the requirements and achieves
the objectives of these guidelines.
      (7)   Landscaping at driveway and street intersections. To ensure that
landscape materials do not constitute a driving hazard, a “sight triangle”
should be observed at all street intersections of driveways with streets.
Within this sight triangle, no landscape material nor parked vehicles except
for required grass or ground cover should be permitted. Within the sight
triangle, trees should be permitted as long as, except during early growth
stages, only the tree trunk (no limbs, leaves, and the like) is visible between
the ground and eight feet above the ground, or otherwise does not present a
traffic visibility hazard. The sight triangle is defined in the following
sections.
         (a)   Driveway intersection sight triangle. At intersections of
driveways with streets, the sight triangle should be established by locating
the intersection of the street curb with the driveway edge perpendicular to the
curb.
         (b)   Street intersection sight triangle. At street intersections, the
sight triangle should be formed by measuring at least 35 feet along curb lines
and connecting these points.
   (B)   Interior landscaping for vehicular use area. Any open vehicular use
area containing more than 6,000 square feet of area or 12 or more vehicular
parking spaces, shall provide “interior” landscaping in addition to the
previously required “perimeter” landscaping.
      (1)   Landscape area. For each 100 square feet, or fraction thereof, of
vehicular use area, five square feet of landscaped area shall be provided.
         (a)   Minimum area. The minimum landscape area permitted shall be 64
square feet, with at least dimension of eight feet.
         (b)   Maximum contiguous area. In order to encourage the required
landscape areas to be properly dispersed, no required landscape area shall be
larger than 350 square feet, in vehicular use areas under 30,000 square feet in
size, and no required area shall be larger than 1,500 square feet in vehicular
use areas over 30,000 square feet. In both cases, the least dimension of any
required area shall be eight feet. Landscape areas larger than above are
permitted as long as the additional area is in excess of the required minimum.
      (2)   Minimum trees. A minimum of one tree shall be required for each 250
square feet, or fraction thereof, of required landscape area. Trees shall have
a clear trunk of at least five feet above the ground, and the remaining area
shall be landscaped with shrubs, or ground cover, not to exceed two feet in
height.
      (3)   Vehicle overhang. Parked vehicles may hang over the interior
landscaped area no more than two and one-half feet, as long as concrete or
other wheel stops are provided to ensure no greater overhang or penetration of
the landscaped area.
(Prior Code, § 13.3) (Ord. 94-6, passed 8-25-1994)
§ 155.208 LANDSCAPE MATERIALS.
   The landscaping materials shall consist of the following and are described
in more detail in the “Planting Manual” on file at the office of Planning and
Community Development.
   (A)   Walls and fences. Walls shall be constructed of natural stone, brick,
or artificial materials arranged in a linear, serpentine, or other alignment;
while fences shall be constructed of wood. Chain link fencing will meet
approval only if covered with wood strips or plant material. In industrial
zones, there should be no height limitation on walls or fences; in all other
zones, however, there should be a six-foot height restriction for walls or
fences in front yards, and eight-foot height restriction in all other required
yards. All walls or fences shall have a minimum opacity of 80%.
   (B)   Earth mounds. Earth mounds shall be constructed with proper slopes and
adequate plant material to prevent erosion.
   (C)   Plants. All plant materials shall be living plants (artificial plants
are not permitted) and shall meet the following requirements.
      (1)   Quality. Plant materials used in conformance with the provisions of
these guidelines shall conform to the standards of the American Association of
Nurserymen and shall have passed any inspections required under state
regulations.
      (2)   Deciduous trees. (Trees which normally shed their leaves in the
fall.) Shall be species having an average mature crown spread of greater than
15 feet and having a trunk(s) which can be maintained with over five feet of
clear wood in areas which have visibility requirements, except at vehicular use
area intersections where an eight-foot clear wood requirement will control.
Trees having an average spread of crown less than 15 feet may be substituted by
grouping of the same so as to create the equivalent of a 15-foot crown spread.
A minimum of ten feet overall height or a minimum caliper (trunk diameter,
measured six inches above ground for trees up to four inches caliper) of at
least one and three-quarter inches immediately after planting shall be
required. Trees of species whose roots are known to cause damage to public
roadways or other public works shall not be planted closer than 15 feet to such
public works, unless the tree root system is completely contained within a
barrier for which the minimum interior containing dimension shall be five feet
square and five feet deep and for which the construction requirements shall be
four inches thick, reinforced concrete.
      (3)   Evergreen trees. Evergreen trees shall be a minimum of five feet
high with a minimum caliper of one and one-half inches and a minimum spread of
three feet immediately after planting.
      (4)   Shrubs and hedges. Shrubs and hedges shall be at least two feet for
§
155.207(A)(2) (and three feet for §
155.207(A)(1)) in average height or spread when planted and shall conform to
the opacity and other requirements within four years after planting.
      (5)   Vines. Vines shall be at least 12 or 15 inches at planting, and are
generally used in conjunction with walls or fences.
      (6)   Grass or ground cover. Grass (of the fescue (Gramineak) or
Bluegrass (Poaceae) family) shall be planted in species normally grown as
permanent lawns in the county, and may be sodded, plugged, sprigged, or seeded;
except in swales or other areas subject to erosion, where solid sod, erosion
reducing net, or suitable mulch shall be used, nurse-grass seed shall be sown
for immediate protection until complete coverage otherwise is achieved. Grass
sod shall be clean and free of weeds and noxious pests or diseases. Ground
cover such as organic material shall be placed in such a manner as to present a
finished appearance. In certain cases, ground cover also may consist of rocks,
pebbles, sand, and similar approved materials.
   (D)   Maintenance and installation. All landscaping materials shall be
installed in a sound, workmanship like manner, and according to accepted good
construction and planting procedures. The person in charge or in contract of
the properties, whether as owner, lessee, tenant, occupant, or otherwise, shall
be responsible for the continued proper maintenance, free from refuse and
debris, at all times. All unhealthy or dead plant material shall be replaced
within one year, or by the next planting period, whichever comes first; while
other defective landscape material shall be replaced or repaired within three
months. Violation of these installation and maintenance provisions should be
grounds for the Building Inspector to refuse a building occupancy permit or to
institute legal proceedings as set forth in other sections of the zoning
regulations.
(Prior Code, § 13.4) (Ord. 94-6, passed 8-25-1994)
§ 155.209 PLAN SUBMISSION AND APPROVAL.
   Whenever any property is affected by these landscaping requirements, the
property owner or developer should prepare two copies of a landscape plan for
submittal to, and approval by, the Planning Office. The Building Inspector
shall follow the requirements of these guidelines in approving or disapproving
any landscape plan required by these guidelines. Landscape plans also may be
submitted as part of any development plan required by the Planning Commission.
   (A)   Plan content. The contents of the plan should include the following:
      (1)   Site plan, drawn to an easily readable scale, showing and labeling
by name and dimensions, all existing and proposed property lines, easements,
buildings, and other structures, vehicular use areas (including parking stalls,
driveways, service areas, square footage, and the like), water outlets, and
landscape material (including height at planting time, average mature height,
and on-center planting dimension for all plants);
      (2)   Typical elevation and cross-sections as may be required;
      (3)   Title box with the pertinent names and addresses, (property owner,
person drawing plan, and person installing landscape material), scale, date,
north arrow, and zoning district; and
      (4)   A performance bond whenever required to insure proper installation
of landscape materials, with complete cost of all work certified by a landscape
contractor, with the bond amount to include the accurate cost plus no more than
25% and the bond should be released upon satisfactory completion of the work as
determined by the public agency that holds the bond.
   (B)   Building permit. Where landscaping is required, no building permit
should be issued until required landscaping plans have been submitted and
approved; and no occupancy permit should be issued until the landscaping is
completed, as certified by on-site inspection by the representative of the
Planning Office, unless a performance bond or irrevocable letter of credit from
a banking institution has been posted.
(Prior Code, § 13.5) (Ord. 94-6, passed 8-25-1994)
AMENDMENTS
§ 155.220 AMENDMENT PROCEDURE.
   In order to make any amendment to this chapter, either to the text or to the
map, the following procedure shall be followed. If any use or density is not
permitted in a zoning district by the provisions of the zoning order, it may
not be permitted by any agency unless the zoning order is amended according to
the amendment procedure.
   (A)   Review by Planning Commission. No amendment shall be made without
first being reviewed by the Planning Commission. The Planning Commission may
refuse to review proposed amendments which have been proposed and rejected
within the past year.
   (B)   Public hearing. The Planning Commission shall present every proposed
amendment to the public at a public hearing. Public hearings on amendments to
the zoning order shall be scheduled at the discretion of the Planning
Commission. The Planning Commission shall publish notice once, not less than
seven nor more than 20 days prior to said public hearing, in a newspaper having
general circulation throughout the county, indicating the time and place of
each public hearing on proposed amendments to the zoning order. The Planning
Commission may establish a schedule of reasonable fees to be paid by the
applicant for a zoning map or text amendment. The Planning Commission may also
issue notification of the public hearings by such other means as it may
determine.
   (C)   Special public hearing. The Planning Commission may call a special
public hearing at any time to consider a zoning amendment, shall conform with
the notice requirements for such special meeting as set forth in KRS 100.163
and KRS Chapter 424, and may establish a separate schedule of reasonable fees
to be paid by the applicant for the zoning amendment, which fees shall cover
the cost of adequate advertisement of the special hearing by such means as the
Planning Commission determines to be necessary.
   (D)   Recommendation to the City Council or Fiscal Court. The Planning
Commission shall submit its recommendations to the City Council or Fiscal Court
within 60 days after the public hearing. The City Council or the Fiscal Court
may each act independently of the other to amend the zoning order within its
respective area of jurisdiction. The Planning Commission may revise proposed
amendments, in which case such amendments shall be presented again at a public
hearing according to KRS 100.211. The Planning Commission, as well as the
legislative bodies of the city and county, may also initiate proposed
amendments.
(Prior Code, § 14)
VIOLATIONS AND REMEDIES
§ 155.235 REMEDIES.
   The Enforcement Officer shall issue notice to violators of all violations of
the zoning order and shall order that such violations cease. In cases of
possible violation where the Enforcement Officer cannot determine if there is a
literal violation, he or she shall apply to the Board of Zoning Adjustment for
an interpretation. If necessary, the City Attorney, County Attorney, or any
property owner or occupant who would be damaged by a violation may institute
appropriate action in court to eliminate the threat or existence of any
violation of this chapter in accordance with state statutes. A warrant,
summons, or citation may be obtained by the Enforcement Officer or by any other
authorized individual. Injunctive relief may also be sought by the Enforcement
Officer, the City Attorney, the County Attorney, or any other aggrieved party.
(Prior Code, § 15.1) (Ord. 98-4, passed 6-10-1998)
§ 155.236 APPEALS.
   Appeals from the actions of the Planning Commission and Board of Zoning
Adjustment, as well as from the final action of the City Council or Fiscal
Court with respect to zoning map or text amendments, shall be taken in the
manner set forth in KRS Chapter 100.347.
(Prior Code, § 15.3)
§ 155.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Violations of the provisions of this chapter or failure to comply with
any of these requirements shall constitute a misdemeanor. Any person who so
violates this chapter or fails to comply with any of its requirements except as
otherwise provided herein, shall, upon conviction thereof, be fined not less
than $10 but no more than $500 for each such conviction. Each day of violation
shall constitute a separate offense.
   (B)   Violation of the provisions of §§
155.180 to
155.192 shall be subject to the fines and penalties as set forth in §
155.186 and §
155.220 for violation of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 15.2) (Ord. 19-86, passed 9-15-1986; Ord. 2014-1, passed 3-12-
2014; Ord. 2018-11, passed 6-27-2018)
CHAPTER 156: UTILITY-SCALE SOLAR FACILITIES
Section
   
156.01   Purpose
   
156.02   Definitions
   
156.03   Scope
   
156.04   Application
   
156.05   Siting requirements
   
156.06   Setback requirements
   
156.07   Decommissioning requirements and surety
   
156.08   Enforcement
§ 156.01 PURPOSE.
   The requirements set forth in this chapter shall govern the setback and
decommissioning of all solar merchant electric facilities located solely or
partly in Clark County, Kentucky, in a manner that will promote the safety,
health, and welfare of the community; prevent utility-scale solar development
in the Agricultural Zone; and preserve farmland, protect historic resources,
and ensure that such facilities are developed in a manner compatible with
neighboring properties. Pursuant to KRS 278.718 (as amended effective June 28,
2023), this chapter shall have primacy over the provisions and requirements of
KRS 278.700, 278.704, 278.706, and 278.708, and any conflict between this
chapter and those statutes shall be resolved in favor of this chapter. This
chapter is not subject to modification or waiver by the county through a
request for deviation by the applicant or otherwise.
(Ord. 2023-04, passed 6-22-2023)
§ 156.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   SOLAR MERCHANT ELECTRIC GENERATING FACILITY or FACILITY. A photovoltaic
electricity generating facility or facilities that, together with all
associated structures and facilities:
      (1)   Are capable of operating at an aggregate capacity of ten megawatts
(10 MW) or more; and
      (2)   Sell the electricity they produce in the wholesale market, at rates
and charges not regulated by the Public Service Commission;
   APPLICANT. A person or entity who submits an application to the Clark County
Planning Commission for a permit to install a “facility” under this chapter.
(Ord. 2023-04, passed 6-22-2023)
§ 156.03 SCOPE.
   The requirements set forth in this chapter shall govern the setback and
decommissioning of solar merchant electric facilities located solely or partly
in Clark County, Kentucky.
(Ord. 2023-04, passed 6-22-2023)
§ 156.04 APPLICATION.
   Prior to beginning the construction of a facility, the applicant shall
submit the following to the Planning Commission Office:
   (A)   An application in the form attached to Ord. 2023-04 as Appendix 1;
   (B)   An application fee in the amount of $50,000;
   (C)   All documents (including but not limited to facility plans and
specifications) requested by Planning Commission Staff in order to demonstrate
compliance with the setback provisions contained in §
156.06;
   (D)   A decommissioning plan to be reviewed and approved by the Planning
Commission and the county for compliance with §
156.07. The decommissioning plan shall be reviewed and updated every three
years by a certified independent solar facility engineer to be selected by the
county, with the cost to be paid in full by the owner/operator of the facility;
and
   (E)   The applicant shall post the bond or letter of credit as determined by
the county required by §
156.07.
(Ord. 2023-04, passed 6-22-2023)
§ 156.05 SITING REQUIREMENTS.
   Facilities shall not be constructed and sited, whether entirely or
partially, in the Agricultural Zone in Clark County, Kentucky, and facilities
shall comply with the setback requirements in §
156.06.
(Ord. 2023-04, passed 6-22-2023)
§ 156.06 SETBACK REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   The minimum setback distance of a facility from any property boundary
shared with any tract on which no such facility is located shall be at least
2,000 feet.
   (B)   The minimum setback distance between a facility and any river or
stream is 150 feet.
   (C)   These setback requirements shall also apply to all equipment
(electrical or otherwise) associated with and necessary for the operation of a
facility.
   (D)   These setback requirements shall not be subject to modification by the
Board of Adjustments.
(Ord. 2023-04, passed 6-22-2023)
§ 156.07 DECOMMISSIONING REQUIREMENTS AND SURETY.
   (A)   The county shall require the owner/operator to provide an semi-annual
statement activity to ensure that the facility is actively producing
electricity.
   (B)   When a facility ceases to be operational for a period of nine months,
whether through abandonment or otherwise, decommissioning shall be enforced
unless the owner/operator establishes that it is diligently working to restore
the facility to imminent operation.
   (C)   When a facility ceases to be operational after the nine-month period
set out above, the owner/operator of the facility shall return the land to its
original natural state, including at least four inches of topsoil. All surface
and subsurface materials shall be removed.
   (D)   When a facility is abandoned or decommissioned, the owner/operator of
the facility shall notify the respective power company to enable the power
company to remove the facility from its system.
   (E)   No material removed through the decommissioning process shall be
placed in any landfill located in Clark County.
   (F)   To the greatest extent possible, the owner/operator shall recycle all
solar panels and other material removed through the decommissioning process.
   (G)   All decommissioning activities shall be completed within six months
after notice of inactivity is received by the county. If decommissioning is not
completed within this time period, the county may cause the removal of the
facility and the restoration of the land to its natural state, with all costs
to be borne by the project owner/operator.
   (H)   The decommissioning obligations imposed herein shall be guaranteed and
secured by a bond or letter of credit to be posted by the owner/operator and at
their cost, in an amount to be established by the county, naming the county as
the obligee/beneficiary, and subject to the following provisions:
      (1)   The bond or letter of credit shall cover the entire estimated cost
of decommissioning as determined by an independent licensed engineer with
experience in decommissioning utility-scale solar facilities and shall not be
reduced by any provision for salvage value;
      (2)   The bond or letter of credit shall be provided by an insurance
company or surety that shall at all times maintain at least an "Excellent"
rating as measured by the AM Best Rating Agency or equivalent credit rating by
any national credit rating agency and shall be non-cancelable by the provider
or the customer until completion of the decommissioning plan or until a
replacement bond or letter of credit is secured; and
      (3)   The bond or letter of credit shall be posted prior to the
commencement of construction, and maintained thereafter, in an amount to be
reassessed every three years based on the estimated decommissioning costs as
determined by an independent licensed engineer with experience in
decommissioning utility-scale solar facilities.
   (I)   A failure to comply with the decommissioning obligations set out
herein, whether in whole or in part, will result in the forfeiture of the
entire amount of the bond or letter of credit posted by the owner/operator
pursuant to division (H).
(Ord. 2023-04, passed 6-22-2023)
§ 156.08 ENFORCEMENT.
   The County Attorney is hereby authorized to bring an action for injunctive
relief to enjoin a violation of this chapter.
(Ord. 2023-04, passed 6-22-2023)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   Table
      
I.   AGREEMENTS
      
II.   VACATIONS OF PROPERTY
      
III.   FRANCHISES
      
IV.   STREET ACCEPTANCES; COUNTY ROAD DESIGNATIONS
      
V.   ZONING
TABLE I: AGREEMENTS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord.  Date   Description
No.   Passed
             Authorizing the County Judge/Executive to execute an agreement with the Blue
      12-30- Grass Community Foundation, Inc. for the payment of $2,500,000 of the
98-13 1998   proceeds from the sale of the Rockwell Building to be held and maintained as
             a permanent endowment component fund of the Bluegrass Community Foundation,
             Inc.
2000- 8-8-   Approving project agreement with Natural Resources Conservation Service
91    2000   concerning Dry Fork Creek Water Shed Project
2000- 9-13-  Approving contract amendment relating to East Clark County Water District
97    2000   Rural Water Extension Community Development Block Grant 96-059
2000- 9-13-  Approving the contract for the procurement of professional services as
98    2000   provided in Grant No. 1999-JF-FX-0721 (ILLECP-4) Innovative Local Law
             Enforcement and Community Policing
2000- 9-27-  Relating to extension of agreement with Bluegrass Crime Stoppers, Inc.
106   2000
2001- 1-24-  Authorizing execution of an amendment to the master agreement relating the
29    2001   Lower Howard’s Creek Project
2001- 2-14-  Approving revised funding agreement
48    2001
2001- 2-28-  Approving an interim agreement related to the preliminary development of the
51    2001   Lower Howard’s Creek Heritage Park Project
2001- 2-28-  Awarding bid and authorizing execution of a contract for historic
52    2001   preservation services related to the Heritage Park Project
2001- 3-14-  Approving an agreement related to the providing of School Resource Officers
54    2001
2001- 3-14-  Approving the statewide Emergency Management Mutual Aid and Assistance
55    2001   Agreement
2001- 4-25-  Authorizing execution of a memorandum of agreement regarding acceptance of
71    2001   the proposal of the state’s Nature Preserves Commission to conduct a
             biological inventory for the Lower Howard’s Creek Heritage Park
2001- 7-25-  Approving a letter of agreement for the Civil War Earthenworks Project
119   2001   providing for preparation of a management plan
2001- 7-25-  Approving lease agreement for Emergency Services Tower
120   2001
2001- 8-8-   Approving lease agreement with Clark County GIS Consortium
128   2001
             Authorizing execution of a college operation and lease agreement by and
2001- 10-15- between the City of Winchester, the County Fiscal Court, Winchester/Clark
146   2001   County Parks and Recreation/Board, Winchester/Clark County Industrial
             Authority, and Lexington Community College
2001- 10-15- Awarding a bid for the College Park Library Renovation
147   2001
2002- 1-23-  Approving a professional service agreement with Bluegrass Area Development
11    2002   District regarding professional and GIS Services relating to fire protection
             study
2002- 2-13-  Authorizing execution of a letter of intent with the state’s Transportation
25    2002   Cabinet for a Transportation Enhancement Project Grant
2002- 3-27-  Authorizing the County Treasurer to execute Farm Program documents through
78    2002   the Farm Services Agency
2002- 5-7-   Approving participation in the Civil War Earthenworks Project
95    2002
2002- 5-27-  Authorizing execution of a master agreement for emergency management
102   2002   assistance funds
      9-25-  A resolution authorizing the County Judge/Executive to enter into an
-     2002   agreement with the state’s Transportation Cabinet pertaining to the
             installation of a turn lane and traffic signal improvements on KY 1958
2002- 11-27- Approving the Emergency Management Mutual Aid and Assistance agreement
167   2002
2004- 10-5-  Participation in revolving fund policy
144   2004
2004- 10-27- Approval of revolving fund agreement
20    2004
2005- 2-9-   Community Development Block Grant Program
4     2005
2005- 2-9-   Affirmative action plan agreement
5     2005
2009- 1-13-  Agreement concerning the Winchester Plaza Development Area
24    2009
10-5  2-10-  Lease agreement
      2010
10-8  4-28-  Lease agreement
      2010
2010- 5-26-  Lease agreement
15    2010
2010- 12-15- Lease agreement
23    2010
2011- 9-14-  Lease agreement
12    2011
2011- 11-9-  Lease agreement
15    2011
2014- 4-23-  Interlocal agreement with Winchester concerning taxation
4     2014
2014- 12-17- Interlocal agreement with Winchester concerning taxation
19    2014
2015- 7-8-   Lease agreement
5     2015
2017- 8-9-   Lease agreement
32    2017
2020- 11-12- Approving a lease agreement for the financing of a project
07    2020
2021- 5-27-  Approving a lease agreement for the financing of a project
4     2021
2022- 9-22-  Approving a lease agreement for the financing of a project
11    2022
2022- 11-22- Approving a lease agreement for the financing of a project
13    2022
2023- 10-4-  Approving a lease agreement for the financing of a project
09    2023
            
 
TABLE II: VACATIONS OF PROPERTY
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
2015-07  1-4-2016    Vacating a portion of Westmoreland Avenue
                    
 
TABLE III: FRANCHISES
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
89-19    10-11-1989  Granting a cable television franchise to Simmons Cable TV
                     of Kentucky- Indiana, Inc.
89-21    12-13-1989  Granting a cable television franchise to First Quality
                     Cable, Inc.
95-7     4-19-1995   Granting a non-exclusive community antenna television
                     franchise to Horizon Communications, Inc.
                    
 
TABLE IV: STREET ACCEPTANCES; COUNTY ROAD DESIGNATIONS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
80-20    1-16-1981   Designating roads into the county road system eligible for
                     state derived tax revenues
81-6     6-24-1981   Designating roads into the county road system eligible for
                     state derived tax revenues
                     Tentatively accepting Fern Court and Watercrest Way
2000-5   5-24-2000   contained in Unit 3 of Spring Ridge Subdivision into the
                     county road system
2000-24  11-8-2000   Approving construction of proposed road at 4475 Rockwell
                     Road
2001-7   1-10-2001   Accepting a section of Teal Lane for maintenance and
                     repair
2001-8   1-10-2001   Accepting a section of Teal Lane for maintenance and
                     repair
2001-9   1-10-2001   Accepting a section of Rose Lane for maintenance and
                     repair
2001-10  1-10-2001   Accepting a section of Canvasback Lane for maintenance and
                     repair
2001-11  1-10-2001   Accepting Hibiscus Lane Units 2A and 2B for maintenance
                     and repair
2001-12  1-10-2001   Accepting Honeysuckle Lane for maintenance and repair
2001-13  1-10-2001   Accepting Primrose Lane for maintenance and repair
2001-14  1-10-2001   Accepting Hibiscus Lane Unit 3 for maintenance and repair
2001-15  1-10-2001   Accepting Amiens Boulevard for maintenance and repair
2001-16  1-10-2001   Accepting Morning Glory Court for maintenance and repair
2001-17  1-10-2001   Accepting a section of Eastridge Drive for maintenance and
                     repair
2001-18  1-10-2001   Accepting a section of Waycross Drive for maintenance and
                     repair
2001-19  1-10-2001   Accepting Bracken Court for maintenance and repair
2001-20  1-10-2001   Accepting Salem Avenue for maintenance and repair
2001-27  1-24-2001   Accepting Wexford Drive for maintenance and repair
2001-28  1-24-2001   Accepting Edison Court for maintenance and repair
2001-148 10-15-2001  Accepting Amiens Boulevard for maintenance and repair
2001-167 11-14-2001  Accepting a portion of Hibiscus Lane for maintenance and
                     repair
2001-184 12-19-2001  Accepting Summerhill Way for maintenance and repair
2001-185 12-19-2001  Accepting Justice Drive for maintenance and repair
2001-186 12-19-2001  Accepting Freedom Way for maintenance and repair
2001-187 12-19-2001  Accepting Augusta Drive for maintenance and repair
2002-137 9-11-2002   Accepting a section of Teal Lane for maintenance and
                     repair
2002-145 10-16-2002  Accepting a section of Crocus Court for maintenance and
                     repair
2002-146 10-16-2002  Accepting a section of Hibiscus Lane for maintenance and
                     repair
2002-147 10-16-2002  Accepting a section of Primrose Lane for maintenance and
                     repair
2002-194 12-18-2002  Accepting a section of Acadia Way for maintenance and
                     repair
2002-195 12-18-2002  Accepting a section of Shannon Court for maintenance and
                     repair
2002-196 12-18-2002  Accepting a section of Jameson Way for maintenance and
                     repair
                    
 
TABLE V: ZONING
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
-        - -         Rezoning a tract of land
94-2     - -         Rezoning a tract of land
2000-27  - -         Rezoning a tract of land
2001-5   - -         Rezoning a tract of land
2003-7   - -         Rezoning a tract of land
2011-1   - -         Rezoning a tract of land
93-6     7-28-1993   Rezoning a tract of land
94-7     9-29-1994   Rezoning a tract of land
95-10    - -1995     Rezoning a tract of land
95-4     3-23-1995   Rezoning a tract of land
95-5     4-19-1995   Rezoning a tract of land
95-8     5-10-1995   Rezoning a tract of land
95-9     5-10-1995   Rezoning a tract of land
95-14    7-27-1995   Rezoning a tract of land
95-17    11-8-1995   Rezoning a tract of land
96-1     1-25-1996   Rezoning a tract of land
96-2     1-25-1996   Rezoning a tract of land
96-3     1-25-1996   Rezoning a tract of land
96-4     1-25-1996   Rezoning a tract of land
96-6     2-29-1996   Rezoning a tract of land
96-7     2-29-1996   Rezoning a tract of land
96-10    7-10-1996   Rezoning a tract of land
96-14    9-26-1996   Rezoning a tract of land
96-15    9-26-1996   Rezoning a tract of land
96-16    9-26-1996   Rezoning a tract of land
96-19    11-13-1996  Rezoning a tract of land
96-23    1-8-1997    Rezoning a tract of land
97-1     1-22-1997   Rezoning a tract of land
97-2     2-12-1997   Rezoning a tract of land
97-3     2-12-1997   Rezoning a tract of land
97-5     4-16-1997   Rezoning a tract of land
97-8     6-11-1997   Rezoning a tract of land
98-1     1-28-1998   Rezoning a tract of land
98-2     4-22-1998   Rezoning a tract of land
98-5     7-15-1998   Rezoning a tract of land
99-2     4-14-1999   Rezoning a tract of land
99-3     5-12-1999   Rezoning a tract of land
2000-6   4-26-2000   Rezoning a tract of land
2000-7   4-26-2000   Rezoning a tract of land
2000-20  10-11-2000  Rezoning a tract of land
2000-29  1-10-2001   Rezoning a tract of land
2001-2   2-28-2001   Rezoning a tract of land
2001-6   6-13-2001   Rezoning a tract of land
2001-7   8-8-2001    Rezoning a tract of land
2001-10  9-26-2001   Rezoning a tract of land
2002-17  8-14-2002   Rezoning a tract of land
2003-1   2-13-2003   Rezoning a tract of land
2004-14  7-12-2004   Rezoning a tract of land
2004-18  8-25-2004   Rezoning a tract of land
2004-26  12-15-2004  Rezoning a tract of land
2004-28  12-23-2004  Rezoning a tract of land
2005-20  11-9-2005   Rezoning a tract of land
2006-3   2-8-2006    Rezoning a tract of land
2006-7   7-12-2006   Rezoning a tract of land
06-13    12-13-2006  Rezoning a tract of land
2007-6   2-28-2007   Rezoning a tract of land
2007-11  4-18-2007   Rezoning a tract of land
2007-19  7-11-2007   Rezoning a tract of land
2008-1   2-13-2008   Rezoning a tract of land
2008-8   4-16-2008   Rezoning a tract of land
2008-15  7-23-2008   Rezoning a tract of land
2009-13  8-26-2009   Rezoning a tract of land
2010-3   1-27-2010   Rezoning a tract of land
2010-4   1-27-2010   Rezoning a tract of land
2010-17  6-23-2010   Rezoning a tract of land
2011-1   1-26-2011   Rezoning a tract of land
2012-1   2-8-2012    Rezoning a tract of land
2013-12  9-25-2013   Rezoning a tract of land
2014-6   5-28-2014   Rezoning a tract of land
2014-11  7-9-2014    Rezoning a tract of land
2014-12  8-27-2014   Rezoning a tract of land
2016-05  4-27-2016   Rezoning a tract of land
2016-11  8-10-2016   Rezoning a tract of land
2016-14  9-28-2016   Rezoning a tract of land
2016-16  11-9-2016   Rezoning a tract of land
2017-20  2-22-2017   Rezoning a tract of land
23       4-12-2017   Rezoning a tract of land
24       4-22-2017   Rezoning a tract of land
2017-27  6-14-2017   Rezoning a tract of land
2017-35  10-11-2017  Rezoning a tract of land
2018-02  2-14-2018   Rezoning a tract of land
2018-05  2-28-2018   Rezoning a tract of land
2018-10  5-23-2018   Rezoning a tract of land
2018-16  8-8-2018    Rezoning a tract of land
2018-23  12-26-2018  Rezoning a tract of land
                     Rezoning a tract of land containing 6.401 acres located at
2019-07  9-4-2019    2101 Old Boonesboro Road from R-1-C and R-1D Single-Family
                     Residential to PD Planned Development
                     Rezoning a tract of land containing 94.110 acres located
2020-10  12-22-2020  at 1625 Mt. Sterling Road (7850 Veterans Memorial Parkway)
                     from A-1 Agricultural to PD Planned Development
                     Rezoning a tract of land containing 6.131 acres located at
2020-11  12-22-2020  1995 McClure Road from A-1 Agricultural to R-1C Single-
                     Family Residential
                     Rezoning a tract of land containing 61.72 acres located at
2020-12  12-22-2020  1305 Irvine Road from A-1 Agricultural to PD Planned
                     Development
                     Rezoning a tract of land containing 1.35 acres located at
2021-2   1-28-2021   601 Flanagan Station Road from A-1 Agricultural to B-
                     3 Highway Business
                     Rezoning a tract of land containing 26 acres located at
2021-3   3-25-2021   the rear of 2800 Colby Road and adjacent to Duclair Drive
                     from A-1 Agricultural to R-1C Single-Family Residential
                     Rezoning a tract of land containing 50 acres located at
2021-9   6-24-2021   2400 and 2770 Paris Road from A-1 Agricultural to I-
                     1 Light Industry
                     Rezoning a tract of land containing 1.71 acres located at
2022-1   3-9-2022    1025 Colby Road from B-1 Neighborhood Business to B-
                     4 General Business
                     Rezoning a tract of land containing 2.025 acres located at
2023-01  2-23-2023   310 Rolling Hills Lane from A-1 Agricultural to B-
                     4 General Business
                     Rezoning a tract of land containing 1.438 acres located at
2023-07  8-9-2023    217 and 299 Cook Avenue from R-4 Multi-family Residential
                     to B-4 General Business
                     Rezoning a tract of land containing 32.47 acres located at
                     569, 601 and 657 Ecton Road and 1436, 1444, 1600 and 1670
2024-07  9-11-2024   Ironworks Road from R-1D Single-Family Residential, R-1C
                     Single-Family and A-1 Agricultural to PD Planned
                     Development
                     Rezoning a tract of land containing 0.3433 acres located
2024-08  9-11-2024   at 2004 Ironworks Road from R-1C Single-Family Residential
                     to B-1 Neighborhood Business
                     Rezoning a tract of land containing 23.7 acres located at
2024-09  9-11-2024   1370, 1500 and 1850 Mt. Sterling Road from A-
                     1 Agricultural to B-4 General Business
                     Rezoning a tract of land containing 1.57 acres located at
2024-10  10-9-2024   710 and 740 Ecton Road from A-1 Agricultural to B-
                     4 General Business
                     Rezoning a tract of land containing 0.719 acres located at
2024-11  10-9-2024   385 Flanagan Station Road from A-1 Agricultural to B-
                     3 Highway Business
                    
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Kentucky Revised Statutes
References to Prior Code
References to Resolutions
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO KENTUCKY REVISED STATUTES
KRS Section Code Section
KRS Section             Code Section
10.18                   83A.090
13B.080                 33.187
23A.220                 36.089
39B.020                 151.15
45A.345 to 45A.400      32.20
61.800 et seq.          33.187
61.810                  31.01
61.810(b)               31.05
61.810(c)               31.05
61.810(f)               31.05
61.810(g)               31.05
61.823                  36.015
61.823(5)               36.015
61.870 to 61.884        31.06
61.870 et seq.          33.187
64.091                  36.089
Chapter 65              35.01
Chapter 65A             51.26,
                        51.28
65.160 through 65.176   50.002
65.180 through 65.192   50.002
65.210 et seq.          50.002
65.870                  130.02
65.8801                 33.182
                        33.182,
65.8801 to 65.8839      33.183,
                        33.204
                        33.200,
65.8801 to 65.8840      33.218,
                        33.219
65.8801 et seq.         33.187
65.8805(4)              33.217
65.8825(6)              33.182
65.8828(1)              33.182
65.8828(4)              33.182
65.8828(5)              33.225
65.8828(6)              33.182
65.8829(7)              33.182
65.8831                 33.223
65.8835                 33.198,
                        33.218
65.8835(e)              33.218
66.480                  32.02
67.040                  34.01
67.045                  31.10
67.075 to 67.077        31.08
67.078                  31.08
67.078(1)               31.08
67.083(3)(c)            51.25
67.083(3)(h)            51.25
67.083(3)(o)            50.001
67.083(3)(r)            51.25
67.710                  34.01
67.715(2)               51.25
Chapter 68              32.01
82.715                  33.223
83A.010(3)              10.02
83A.010(6)              10.02
83A.010(8)              10.02
83A.065                 10.99
91A.010(4)              10.02
91A.010(8)              10.02
91A.350 to 91A.390      33.072
96.020                  115.03
97.035                  33.040,
                        33.042
99.705                  33.182,
                        33.200
99.710                  33.186
                        152.01,
                        153.003,
                        153.020,
                        153.138,
Chapter 100             153.146,
                        153.999,
                        155.066,
                        155.131,
                        155.153
100.111                 153.076
100.163                 155.220
100.187                 153.020
100.211                 155.220
100.213                 155.094
100.231                 155.066
100.233                 155.066
100.237                 155.066
100.241                 155.066
100.243                 155.066
100.247                 155.066
100.251                 155.066
100.293 to 100.311      153.110
100.347                 33.205,
                        155.236
Chapter 109             50.001,
                        50.002
109.082                 50.002
118.025                 36.088
118.105                 35.02
118.115                 35.02
118.325                 35.02
118.760                 35.02
131.010(6)              110.37
Chapter 136             38.31
149.400                 151.02
149.410                 90.54
149.630                 90.54
151.250                 152.06
164.630                 33.055
174.100                 70.40
174.100(1)              70.41,
                        70.42
174.100(2)              70.42
174.100(3)              70.43
174.100(4)              70.44
Chapter 179             33.002
179.020                 33.001
179.060                 33.001
179.470                 33.004
212.210                 51.21
Chapter 218A            113.02
Chapter 220             51.25,
                        51.26
220.030                 51.25,
                        51.26
220.035                 51.25
220.310                 51.26
220.510                 51.26,
                        51.28
Chapter 224             50.001,
                        50.002
224.01-010              151.15
224.01-400              151.15
224.40-100              50.061,
                        50.062
224.40-310              50.062
224.43-010              50.062
224.43-340              50.002
224.50-760              50.002
Chapter 226             112.24
226.010                 111.06
226.040                 111.04
Chapter 227             110.21
227.702                 110.20,
                        110.22
227.706                 110.20
227.715(11)(a)(b)       110.21
Chapter 230             155.007
Chapter 233             113.02
Chapter 237             130.02
Chapter 241 through 244 114.06
241.060                 114.05
Chapter 242             114.14
243.060                 114.04
243.090(1)              114.06
243.155                 114.14,
                        155.007
244.290                 114.14
244.290(4)              114.14
244.290(5)              114.14
244.480                 114.14
                        33.117,
258.015                 92.04,
                        92.09
258.215                 33.117
258.235                 92.12
Chapter 262             153.020
Chapter 278             155.153
278.010(3)              155.007
278.700                 156.01
278.704                 156.01
278.706                 156.01
278.708                 156.01
278.718                 156.01
286.3-135               38.30
323A.010                153.020
Chapter 342             110.36
344.200 through 344.290 94.10,
                        94.11
367.952                 33.154
                        70.41,
Chapter 424             115.03,
                        153.005,
                        155.220
446.010(1)              10.02
446.010(2)              10.02
446.010(9)              10.02
446.010(10)             10.02
446.010(12)             10.02
446.010(13)             10.02
446.010(14)             10.02
446.010(15)             10.02
446.010(17)             10.02
446.010(18)             10.02
446.010(23)             10.02
446.010(25)             10.02
446.010(26)             10.02
446.010(27)             10.02
446.010(28)             10.02
446.010(30)             10.02
446.010(31)             10.02
446.010(33)             10.02
446.010(37)             10.02
446.010(39)             10.02
446.010(43)             10.02
446.010(46)             10.02
446.010(47)             10.02
446.010(49)             10.02
446.010(55)             10.02
446.020(1)              10.02
446.020(2)              10.02
446.030                 10.04
446.050                 10.05
446.060                 10.06
446.080(1)              10.02
446.080(3)              10.02
446.080(4)              10.02
446.090                 10.07
446.100                 10.08
446.110                 10.09
446.140                 10.01
Chapter 510             113.02
525.125                 92.11
525.130                 92.11
525.135                 92.11
Chapter 528             113.02
Chapter 529             113.02
Chapter 531             113.02
532.020(4)              130.99
534.040(2)(c)           10.99
711.131                 153.999
                        
 
REFERENCES TO PRIOR CODE
Prior Code Section Code Section
Prior Code Section Code Section
1.1                155.001
1.2                155.002
1.3                155.003
1.4                155.004
1.7                155.005
1.8                155.006
2.1                155.020
2.2                155.021
2.3                155.022
3.1                155.035
3.2                155.036
3.3                155.037
4.1                155.050
4.2                155.051
4.3                155.052
4.4                155.053
5.1                155.065
5.2                155.066
5.3                155.067
6.1                155.080
6.2                155.081
6.3                155.082
6.4                155.083
6.5                155.084
6.5A               155.085
6.6                155.086
6.7                155.087
6.8                155.088
6.9                155.089
6.9A               155.090
6.10               155.091
6.11               155.092
6.12               155.093
6.13               155.094
6.14               155.095
6.15               155.096
6.16               155.097
7.1                155.110
7.2                155.111
7.3                155.112
7.4                155.113
7.5                155.114
8.1                155.125
8.2                155.126
8.3                155.127
8.4                155.128
8.5                155.129
8.6                155.130
8.8                155.132
8.9                155.133
9.1                155.145
9.2                155.146
9.3                155.147
9.4                155.148
9.5                155.149
9.6                155.150
9.7                155.151
9.8                155.152
9.10               155.153
10.1               155.165
10.2               155.166
10.3               155.167
10.4               155.168
Art. 12            155.007
13.1               155.205
13.2               155.206
13.3               155.207
13.4               155.208
13.5               155.209
14                 155.220
15.1               155.235
15.2               155.999
15.3               155.236
20.001             30.01
20.002             30.02
20.003             30.03
20.004             30.04
20.005             30.05
21.001             31.01
21.002             31.02
21.003             31.03
21.004             31.04,
                   31.99
21.005             31.05
21.006             31.06
21.007             31.07
21.008             31.08
21.009             31.09
21.010             31.10
22.001             32.01
22.002             32.02
22.003             32.03
22.004             32.04
22.005             32.05
22.100             32.20
22.101             32.21
22.102             32.22
22.103             32.23
22.104             32.24
22.105             32.25
22.106             32.26
22.107             32.27
22.108             32.28
23.001             33.001
23.002             33.002
23.003             33.003
23.004             33.004
23.005             33.005
23.100             33.020
23.101             33.021
23.102             33.022
23.103             33.023
23.104             33.024
23.105             33.025
23.106             33.026
23.107             33.027
23.108             33.028
23.109             33.029
23.200             33.040
23.201             33.041
23.202             33.042
23.203             33.043
23.204             33.044
23.300             33.055
23.301             33.056
23.400             33.070
23.401             33.071
23.402             33.072
23.403             33.073
23.500             33.085
23.501             33.086
23.502             33.087
23.503             33.088
23.600             33.100
23.601             33.101
23.602             33.102
23.603             33.103
23.700             33.115
23.701             33.116
23.702             33.117
23.703             33.118
24.001             34.01
24.002             34.02
24.003             34.03
24.004             34.04
24.005             34.05
24.006             34.06
24.100             34.20
24.101             34.21
24.102             34.22
25.001             35.01
25.002             35.02
25.100             35.03
25.200             35.15
25.201             35.16
25.202             35.17
25.203             35.18
25.300             35.30
25.400             35.45
25.401             35.46
25.402             35.47
25.403             35.48
25.404             35.49
25.405             35.50
25.406             35.51
25.999             35.99
26.001             36.001
26.100             36.015
26.200             36.030
26.201             36.031
26.202             36.032
26.203             36.033
26.204             36.034
26.205             36.035
26.206             36.036
26.207             36.037
26.208             36.038
26.209             36.039
26.210             36.040
26.300             37.01
26.301             37.02
26.350             37.15
26.351             37.16
26.352             37.17
26.353             37.18
26.354             37.19
26.355             37.20
26.356             37.21
26.500             36.070
26.501             36.071
27.001             38.01
27.002             38.02
27.100             38.15
27.101             38.16
27.102             38.17
27.200             38.30
27.201             38.31
27.202             38.32
27.203             38.33
27.204             38.34
27.205             38.35
27.206             38.36
27.999             38.99
28.001             39.01
28.002             39.02
28.003             39.03
28.004             39.04
28.100             39.15
28.101             39.16
28.102             39.17
28.200             39.30
28.201             39.31
28.202             39.32
28.203             39.33
28.999             39.99
30.001             50.001
30.002             50.002
30.003             50.003
30.004             50.004
30.100             50.015
30.101             50.016
30.102             50.017
30.103             50.018
30.104             50.019
30.105             50.020
30.200             50.035
30.201             50.036
30.202             50.037
30.203             50.038
30.204             50.039
30.205             50.040
30.206             50.041
30.207             50.042
30.208             50.043
30.209             50.044
30.300             50.045
30.400             50.060
30.401             50.061
30.402             50.062
30.403             50.063
30.404             50.064
30.500             50.075
30.501             50.076
30.502             50.077
30.503             50.078
30.504             50.079
30.505             50.080
30.506             50.081
30.507             50.082
30.508             50.083
30.509             50.084
30.510             50.085
30.600             50.100
30.601             50.101
30.700             50.102
30.800             50.115
30.801             50.116
30.802             50.117
30.900             50.130
30.901             50.131
30.950             50.145
30.951             50.146
30.952             50.147
30.999             50.999
40.001             70.01
40.002             70.02
40.003             70.03
40.004             70.04
40.005             70.05
40.006             70.06
40.007             70.07
40.008             70.08
40.100             70.25
40.101             70.26
40.102             70.27
40.103             70.28
40.104             70.29
40.200             70.40
40.201             70.41
40.202             70.42
40.203             70.43
40.204             70.44
40.999             70.99
50.001             90.01
50.002             90.02
50.003             90.03
50.004             90.04
50.005             90.05
50.006             90.06
50.007             90.07
50.008             90.08
50.009             90.09
50.010             90.10,
                   90.11
50.999             90.99
51.001             91.01
51.002             91.02
51.003             91.03
51.004             91.04
51.100             91.15
51.999             91.99
53.025             92.30
53.026             92.31
53.027             92.32
53.028             92.33
53.029             92.34
53.030             92.35
53.031             92.36
53.100             92.50
53.101             92.51
53.999             92.99
60.001             110.01
60.002             110.02
60.003             110.03
60.004             110.04
60.005             110.05
60.006             110.06
60.007             110.07
60.008             110.08
60.999             110.99
61.001             111.25
61.002             111.26
61.003             111.27
61.004             111.28
61.999             111.99
62.001             113.01
62.002             113.02
62.003             113.03
62.100             113.15
62.101             113.16
62.102             113.17
62.103             113.18
62.104             113.19
62.105             113.20
62.106             113.21
62.107             113.22
62.108             113.23
62.109             113.24
62.110             113.25
62.200             113.40
62.201             113.41
62.202             113.42
62.203             113.43
62.204             113.44
62.205             113.45
62.206             113.46
62.207             113.47
62.300             113.60
62.301             113.61
62.302             113.62
62.303             113.63
62.999             113.99
63.001             114.01
63.002             114.02
63.003             114.03
63.004             114.04
63.005             114.05
63.006             114.06
63.007             114.07
63.008             114.08
63.009             114.09
63.010             114.10
63.011             114.11
63.012             114.12
63.013             114.13
63.999             114.99
64.001             115.01
64.002             115.02
64.003             115.03
64.004             115.04
64.005             115.05
64.006             115.06
64.007             115.07
64.008             115.08
64.009             115.09
64.010             115.10
64.011             115.11
64.012             115.12
64.013             115.13
64.999             115.99
70.001             150.01
70.002             150.02
70.003             150.03
70.100             150.15
70.101             150.16
70.102             150.17
70.103             150.18
70.104             150.19
70.105             150.20
70.106             150.21
70.107             150.22
70.108             150.23
70.109             150.24
70.110             150.25
70.111             150.26
70.112             150.27
70.113             150.28
70.999             150.99
72.001             151.01
72.002             151.02
72.003             151.03
72.100             151.15
72.101             151.16
72.102             151.17
72.103             151.18
72.104             151.19
72.105             151.20
72.106             151.21
72.107             151.22
72.999             151.99
74.100             153.001
74.110             153.002
74.120             153.003
74.130             153.004
74.140             153.005
74.200             153.020
74.210             153.020
74.700             153.105
74.710             153.106
74.720             153.107
74.730             153.108
74.740             153.109
74.750             153.110
74.800             153.125
74.810             153.126
74.820             153.127
74.830             153.128
74.840             153.129
74.850             153.130
74.860             153.131
74.900             153.145
74.910             153.146
74.920             153.147
74.930             153.148,
                   153.999
80.001             154.01
                   
 
REFERENCES TO RESOLUTIONS
 
Res. No. Date Passed Code Section
-        1-22-1997   150.26
                    
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
-        - -         92.66
-        - -         TSO Table V
94-2     - -         TSO Table V
2000-21  - -         37.21
2000-27  - -         TSO Table V
2001-5   - -         TSO Table V
2002-3   - -         36.001
2002-4   - -         36.001
2002-7   - -         36.001
2002-8   - -         36.001
2002-9   - -         36.001
2003-7   - -         TSO Table V
2011-1   - -         TSO Table V
                     150.02,
76-22    4-7-1976    150.03,
                     150.99
76-63    8-25-1976   155.080
20-77    11-22-1977  155.094
21-77    12-12-1977  155.093
                     70.25 –
78-5     9-13-1978   70.29,
                     70.99
                     150.15 –
78-6     10-3-1978   150.28,
                     150.99
5-79     6-12-1979   155.095
8-79     9-10-1979   155.094
1-80     1-8-1980    155.096
80-4     3-12-1980   90.01 –
                     90.10
80-8     5-14-1980   33.020 –
                     33.029
22-80    7-22-1980   155.096
80-18    11-11-1980  33.040 –
                     33.044
80-20    1-6-1981    TSO Table IV
80-20    1-16-1981   70.40
81-8     5-27-1981   130.01,
                     130.99
                     111.25 –
81-9     5-27-1981   111.28,
                     111.99
81-6     6-24-1981   TSO Table IV
22-81    10-22-1981  155.080
82-1     3-24-1982   33.055,
                     33.056
82-6     7- -1982    70.04,
                     70.99
                     155.007,
20-82    9-28-1982   155.066,
                     155.096,
                     155.097
82-9     12-8-1982   31.10
28-83    12-27-1983  155.129
29-82    12-27-1983  155.007
                     155.007,
29-83    12-27-1983  155.080,
                     155.110,
                     155.127
                     155.050,
                     155.080-
30-83    1-11-1984   155.096,
                     155.111,
                     155.113
85-2     1-23-1985   150.01
                     110.01 –
86-2     5-14-1986   110.08,
                     110.99
17-86    7-24-1986   155.007,
                     155.094
                     155.007,
                     155.094-
19-86    9-15-1986   155.096,
                     155.191,
                     155.192,
                     155.999
87-3     2-25-1987   151.02,
                     151.99
                     91.01 –
87-10    7-15-1987   91.04,
                     91.99
87-12    10-14-1987  91.02
36-86    12-10-1987  155.130
36-87    12-10-1987  155.007
9-88     5-24-1988   155.127
10-88    5-24-1988   155.095
17-88    7-26-1988   155.080
88-13    9-14-1988   70.03,
                     70.99
88-14    9-14-1988   70.02,
                     70.99
                     39.01 –
89-3     4-26-1989   39.04,
                     39.15-
                     39.17
                     115.01 –
89-15    8-23-1989   115.13,
                     115.99
89-19    10-11-1989  TSO Table III
89-21    12-13-1989  TSO Table III
17-90    5-10-1990   155.096
                     155.007,
42-90    11-27-1990  155.080-
                     155.090 
91-15    1-8-1991    154.01
                     50.001 –
                     50.004,
                     50.015-
                     50.020,
                     50.035-
                     50.045,
                     50.060-
                     50.064,
91-4     5-22-1991   50.075-
                     50.085,
                     50.100-
                     50.102,
                     50.115-
                     50.117,
                     50.130,
                     50.131,
                     50.999
91-17    11-27-1991  110.03
4-92     3-11-1992   155.007,
                     155.152
92-2     5-13-1992   31.10
                     33.070 –
                     33.073,
92-9     8-12-1992   38.15-
                     38.17,
                     38.99
2-93     1-26-1993   155.151
93-6     7-28-1993   TSO Table V
                     38.01,
93-7     9-8-1993    38.02,
                     38.99
-        6-11-1994   32.23
                     30.01 –
                     30.05,
                     31.01-
                     31.09,
                     31.99,
                     32.01-
                     32.05,
                     32.20-
                     32.22,
-        6-13-1994   32.24-
                     32.28,
                     33.001-
                     33.005,
                     34.01,
                     34.02,
                     34.04-
                     34.06,
                     34.20-
                     34.22
94-6     8-25-1994   155.205 –
                     155.209
94-7     9-29-1994   TSO Table V
                     35.01 –
                     35.03,
                     35.15-
94-9     11-9-1994   35.18,
                     35.30,
                     35.45-
                     35.51
94-10    11-9-1994   38.02,
                     38.99
95-10    - -1995     TSO Table V
95-1     2-8-1995    35.16
95-4     3-23-1995   TSO Table V
                     153.001 –
                     153.006,
                     153.020,
                     153.035-
                     153.040,
                     153.055-153.058, 153.075,
-        3- -1995    153.076, 153.090-
                     153.093,
                     153.105-
                     153.111,
                     153.125-153.131, 153.145-153.148, 153.160-153.163,
                     153.999, Ch.
                     153 App. A – F
95-5     4-19-1995   TSO Table V
                     115.01 –
95-7     4-19-1995   115.13,
                     115.99,
                     TSO Table III
                     115.01 –
95-6     5-10-1995   115.13,
                     115.99
95-8     5-10-1995   TSO Table V
95-9     5-10-1995   TSO Table V
95-12    7-27-1995   91.15
95-13    7-27-1995   155.007,
                     155.066
95-14    7-27-1995   TSO Table V
95-15    8-24-1995   39.04
95-16    9-28-1995   38.02,
                     38.99
95-17    11-8-1995   TSO Table V
95-19    12-13-1995  155.080
                     115.01 –
95-20    12-13-1995  115.13,
                     115.99
96-24    - -1996     36.030 –
                     36.040
96-1     1-25-1996   TSO Table V
96-2     1-25-1996   TSO Table V
96-3     1-25-1996   TSO Table V
96-4     1-25-1996   TSO Table V
                     39.30 –
96-5     2-29-1996   39.33,
                     39.99
96-6     2-29-1996   TSO Table V
96-7     2-29-1996   TSO Table V
                     50.002,
                     50.015,
                     50.045,
                     50.061,
96-8     5-23-1996   50.062,
                     50.115,
                     50.116,
                     50.145,
                     50.146,
                     50.147
96-10    7-10-1996   TSO Table V
96-13    9-26-1996   38.02,
                     38.99
96-14    9-26-1996   TSO Table V
96-15    9-26-1996   TSO Table V
96-16    9-26-1996   TSO Table V
                     151.15 –
96-17    10-15-1996  151.22,
                     151.99
96-19    11-13-1996  TSO Table V
96-21    12-17-1996  151.01
                     38.30 –
96-22    12-17-1996  38.36,
                     38.99
96-23    1-8-1997    TSO Table V
97-1     1-22-1997   TSO Table V
97-2     2-12-1997   TSO Table V
97-3     2-12-1997   TSO Table V
97-5     4-16-1997   TSO Table V
97-6     4-16-1997   154.01
97-8     6-11-1997   TSO Table V
97-10    7-23-1997   92.99
97-15    10-15-1997  110.07
                     155.007,
                     155.081-
                     155.084,
97-17    1-14-1998   155.086-
                     155.089,
                     155.091,
                     155.165
1-98     1-20-1998   155.080
98-1     1-28-1998   TSO Table V
98-2     4-22-1998   TSO Table V
9-98     6-2-1998    155.080
                     155.067,
                     155.080-
                     155.089,
98-4     6-10-1998   155.091,
                     155.092,
                     155.148,
                     155.165,
                     155.235
98-5     7-15-1998   TSO Table V
98-7     8-27-1998   38.02
98-10    11-24-1998  33.055
                     155.085,
98-12    11-24-1998  155.090,
                     155.152
98-13    12-30-1998  TSO Table I
10-99    1-28-1999   92.16,
                     92.99
                     155.007,
                     155.080,
99-1     3-24-1999   155.114,
                     155.131-
                     155.133
99-2     4-14-1999   TSO Table V
99-3     5-12-1999   TSO Table V
99-6     6-23-1999   130.02
                     92.50,
99-8     6-23-1999   92.51,
                     92.99
99-9     8-25-1999   151.03
1-2000   2-1-2000    155.080
                     155.007,
2000-2   2-9-2000    155.096,
                     155.153
2000-3   2-23-2000   36.015
2000-6   4-26-2000   TSO Table V
2000-7   4-26-2000   TSO Table V
2000-5   5-24-2000   TSO Table IV
2000-10  6-28-2000   155.096
                     113.01 –
                     113.03,
                     113.15-
                     113.25,
2000-11  7-26-2000   113.40-
                     113.47,
                     113.60-
                     113.63,
                     113.99
2000-91  8-8-2000    TSO Table I
2000-15  9-13-2000   36.070,
                     36.071
2000-16  9-13-2000   37.01,
                     37.02
2000-17  9-13-2000   37.15 –
                     37.20
2000-97  9-13-2000   TSO Table I
2000-98  9-13-2000   TSO Table I
2000-106 9-27-2000   TSO Table I
2000-20  10-11-2000  TSO Table V
2000-22  11-8-2000   36.001
2000-24  11-8-2000   TSO Table IV
2000-18  11-22-2000  39.02
2000-29  1-10-2001   TSO Table V
2001-7   1-10-2001   TSO Table IV
2001-8   1-10-2001   TSO Table IV
2001-9   1-10-2001   TSO Table IV
2001-10  1-10-2001   TSO Table IV
2001-11  1-10-2001   TSO Table IV
2001-12  1-10-2001   TSO Table IV
2001-13  1-10-2001   TSO Table IV
2001-14  1-10-2001   TSO Table IV
2001-15  1-10-2001   TSO Table IV
2001-16  1-10-2001   TSO Table IV
2001-17  1-10-2001   TSO Table IV
2001-18  1-10-2001   TSO Table IV
2001-19  1-10-2001   TSO Table IV
2001-20  1-10-2001   TSO Table IV
2001-1   1-24-2001   38.16
2001-27  1-24-2001   TSO Table IV
2001-28  1-24-2001   TSO Table IV
2001-29  1-24-2001   TSO Table I
2001-48  2-14-2001   TSO Table I
2001-2   2-28-2001   TSO Table V
2001-51  2-28-2001   TSO Table I
2001-52  2-28-2001   TSO Table I
2001-54  3-14-2001   TSO Table I
2001-55  3-14-2001   TSO Table I
2001-71  4-25-2001   TSO Table I
2001-6   6-13-2001   TSO Table V
2001-119 7-25-2001   TSO Table I
2001-120 7-25-2001   TSO Table I
2001-7   8-8-2001    TSO Table V
2001-128 8-8-2001    TSO Table I
2001-10  9-26-2001   TSO Table V
                     114.01 –
                     114.03,
                     114.05-
2001-11  10-15-2001  114.08,
                     114.10-
                     114.13,
                     114.99
2001-146 10-15-2001  TSO Table I
2001-147 10-15-2001  TSO Table I
2001-148 10-15-2001  TSO Table IV
                     33.115 –
                     33.118,
2001-13  11-14-2001  92.30-
                     92.36,
                     92.99
2001-167 11-14-2001  TSO Table IV
2001-184 12-19-2001  TSO Table IV
2001-185 12-19-2001  TSO Table IV
2001-186 12-19-2001  TSO Table IV
2001-187 12-19-2001  TSO Table IV
2002-11  1-23-2002   TSO Table I
2002-2   2-5-2002    155.152
2002-25  2-13-2002   TSO Table I
2002-5   2-27-2002   36.001
2002-6   2-27-2002   36.001
2002-78  3-27-2002   TSO Table I
2002-95  5-7-2002    TSO Table I
2002-102 5-27-2002   TSO Table I
2002-14  5-29-2002   33.115 –
                     33.118
                     115.01 –
2002-13  6-12-2002   115.13,
                     115.99
2002-16  7-31-2002   32.20
2002-17  8-14-2002   TSO Table V
2002-137 9-11-2002   TSO Table IV
-        9-25-2002   TSO Table I
2002-21  10-16-2002  33.115 –
                     33.117
2002-145 10-16-2002  TSO Table IV
2002-146 10-16-2002  TSO Table IV
2002-147 10-16-2002  TSO Table IV
2002-23  11-8-2002   70.01
2002-24  11-8-2002   70.01
2002-25  11-8-2002   70.99
2002-26  11-8-2002   70.05
2002-27  11-8-2002   33.118
2002-28  11-27-2002  33.100 –
                     33.103
2002-167 11-27-2002  TSO Table I
2002-29  12-18-2002  155.152
                     70.01,
2002-31  12-18-2002  70.02,
                     70.06-
                     70.08
2002-194 12-18-2002  TSO Table IV
2002-195 12-18-2002  TSO Table IV
2002-196 12-18-2002  TSO Table IV
2003-1   2-13-2003   TSO Table V
2003-2   3-12-2003   70.10,
                     70.99
                     70.01,
                     70.02,
2003-3   4-9-2003    70.06-
                     70.08,
                     70.27
2003-4   4-9-2003    70.01
2003-8   8-27-2003   155.165
2003-10  11-25-2003  92.65
2003-11  1-28-2004   155.154
2004-5   3-10-2004   31.11
2004-6   3-10-2004   31.11
2004-8   5-12-2004   36.002
2004-10  5-26-2004   70.01,
                     70.09
2004-11  5-26-2004   31.11
2004-13  6-28-2004   32.29,
                     32.99
2004-14  7-12-2004   TSO Table V
2004-15  8-11-2004   36.088,
                     36.999
2004-18  8-25-2004   TSO Table V
2004-19  8-25-2004   155.152
2004-144 10-5-2004   TSO Table I
2004-20  10-27-2004  TSO Table I
2004-21  10-27-2004  36.001
2004-26  12-15-2004  TSO Table V
2004-27  12-15-2004  70.01
2004-28  12-23-2004  TSO Table V
                     94.01 –
2005-3   2-9-2005    94.13,
                     94.99
2005-4   2-9-2005    TSO Table I
2005-5   2-9-2005    TSO Table I
2005-10  3-18-2005   110.35 –
                     110.38
2005-13  7-28-2005   92.65
2005-15  8-10-2005   31.11
2005-16  8-10-2005   33.150 –
                     33.154
2005-17  8-10-2005   33.165 –
                     33.169
                     153.001 –
                     153.006,
                     153.020,
                     153.035-
                     153.040,
                     153.055-153.058,
-        10- -2005   153.075,
                     153.076, 153.090-
                     153.093,
                     153.105-
                     153.111,
                     153.125-153.131, 153.145-153.148, 153.160-153.163,
                     153.999,
                     Ch. 153 App. A – F
2005-20  11-9-2005   TSO Table V
2005-23  1-11-2006   155.165
2006-2   1-25-2006   70.01
2006-3   2-8-2006    TSO Table V
2006-6   5-24-2006   33.130 –
                     33.135
2006-7   7-12-2006   TSO Table V
2006-11  10-11-2006  31.11
06-13    12-13-2006  TSO Table V
2007-3   2-14-2007   31.01
2007-4   2-14-2007   31.05
2007-5   2-14-2007   31.11
2007-6   2-28-2007   TSO Table V
2007-7   2-28-2007   31.11
2007-10  3-28-2007   36.001
2007-11  4-18-2007   TSO Table V
2007-12  5-9-2007    31.11
2007-13  5-9-2007    31.11
2007-14  5-9-2007    31.11
2007-18  5-9-2007    36.001
2007-17  5-23-2007   36.001
2007-19  7-11-2007   TSO Table V
2007-20  8-8-2007    36.001
2007-23  9-12-2007   110.09
2007-24  9-12-2007   36.001
2007-26  11-28-2007  92.65
2007-28  11-28-2007  36.002
2007-30  1-9-2008    110.06,
                     110.07
08-2     2-13-2008   155.007,
                     155.080
2008-1   2-13-2008   TSO Table V
2008-3   2-27-2008   36.002
2008-4   2-27-2008   151.04,
                     151.99
2008-6   3-12-2008   36.002
3-2008   3-18-2008   155.080
2008-7   3-26-2008   36.001
2008-8   4-16-2008   TSO Table V
2008-9   4-16-2008   36.085
2008-10  5-14-2008   36.002
2008-13  5-28-2008   39.04
2008-14  6-25-2008   36.001
2008-15  7-23-2008   TSO Table V
2008-16  9-10-2008   36.001
2008-18  9-24-2008   36.001
2008-19  9-24-2008   155.130
2008-20  11-12-2008  36.001
2009-24  1-13-2009   TSO Table I
2009-2   2-17-2009   51.01 –
                     51.10
2009-3   3-11-2009   36.001
2009-4   4-8-2009    36.002
2009-9   6-10-2009   36.002
2009-10  7-8-2009    36.001
2009-11  7-8-2009    36.087,
                     36.999
2009-13  8-26-2009   TSO Table V
2009-14  8-26-2009   36.002
2009-17  9-23-2009   36.002
2009-19  10-28-2009  36.001
2009-21  11-24-2009  36.001
2009-22  11-24-2009  36.001
2009-23  11-24-2009  36.001
2010-24  1-12-2010   36.001
2010-1   1-27-2010   36.001
2010-2   1-27-2010   36.001
2010-3   1-27-2010   TSO Table V
2010-4   1-27-2010   TSO Table V
10-5     2-10-2010   TSO Table I
                     130.15 –
2010-7   4-14-2010   130.19,
                     130.99
10-8     4-28-2010   TSO Table I
2010-9   4-28-2010   36.002
2010-10  4-28-2010   36.002
2010-12  5-12-2010   36.001
2010-14  5-26-2010   155.094
2010-15  5-26-2010   TSO Table I
                     33.180,
                     33.183 -
                     33.185,
                     33.187 -
2010-11  6-1-2010    33.194,
                     33.196 -
                     33.198,
                     33.200 -
                     33.203
2010-17  6-23-2010   TSO Table V
2010-19  8-11-2010   36.001
2010-21  9-22-2010   36.002
2010-23  12-15-2010  TSO Table I
2011-1   1-26-2011   TSO Table V
2011-2   2-15-2011   130.99
2011-3   3-23-2011   33.184
2011-5   4-27-2011   36.001
                     33.181 –
                     33.183,
                     33.187,
2011-7   7-27-2011   33.193,
                     33.194,
                     33.196,
                     33.198
                     111.01 –
2011-08  8-10-2011   111.13,
                     111.99
                     112.01 –
2011-09  8-10-2011   112.05,
                     112.99
                     112.20 –
2011-10  8-10-2011   112.30,
                     112.99
2011-12  9-14-2011   TSO Table I
2011-14  10-25-2011  36.001
2011-15  11-9-2011   TSO Table I
2011-16  11-9-2011   36.002
2011-17  11-9-2011   36.001
2011-18  11-9-2011   36.001
21-2011  12-14-2011  51.04
2012-7   - - 2012    36.001
2011-20  1-11-2012   36.086
2012-1   2-8-2012    TSO Table V
2012-2   2-22-2012   36.001
2012-3   2-22-2012   36.089
                     152.01 –
                     152.14,
                     152.25-
2012-4   4-11-2012   152.27,
                     152.40-
                     152.46,
                     152.99
2012-6   5-23-2012   36.001
2012-9   8-23-2012   36.001
2012-10  10-10-2012  36.001
2012-11  10-10-2012  36.001
2013-4   6-12-2013   110.20 –
                     110.22
2013-5   6-12-2013   36.001
2013-6   7-10-2013   36.001
2013-7   7-24-2013   36.001
2013-9   8-14-2013   31.10
2013-12  9-25-2013   TSO Table V
                     155.180 –
2014-1   3-12-2014   155.192,
                     155.999
2014-3   4-23-2014   36.001
2014-4   4-23-2014   TSO Table I
                     155.007,
2014-5   5-14-2014   155.093,
                     155.094
2014-6   5-28-2014   TSO Table V
2014-7   5-28-2014   153.160 – 153.163, 153.999
2014-9   6-25-2014   36.001
2014-10  6-25-2014   36.001
2014-11  7-9-2014    TSO Table V
2014-12  8-27-2014   TSO Table V
2014-14  9-10-2014   36.001
2014-15  9-10-2014   36.001
15-2014  12-2-2014   155.080
                     155.007,
2014-17  12-2-2014   155.080,
                     155.132
2014-18  12-17-2014  155.007
2014-19  12-17-2014  TSO Table I
2015-5   7-8-2015    TSO Table I
2015-8   11-11-2015  36.055 –
                     36.057
2015-07  1-4-2016    TSO Table II
2015-09  1-13-2016   36.001
2015-10  1-13-2016   36.001
                     92.01 –
2015-11  1-13-2016   92.19,
                     92.99
2016-01  1-27-2016   36.001
2016-03  3-23-2016   36.001
2016-05  4-27-2016   TSO Table V
2016-6   5-11-2016   151.01,
                     151.02
2016-8   5-25-2016   36.001
2016-10  7-13-2016   36.001
2016-11  8-10-2016   TSO Table V
2016-13  9-14-2016   114.04
2016-14  9-28-2016   TSO Table V
2016-15  11-9-2016   33.085,
                     33.087
2016-16  11-9-2016   TSO Table V
2016-18  1-11-2017   36.001
2017-20  2-22-2017   TSO Table V
2017-21  3-8-2017    155.080
2017-22  4-10-2017   36.003
23       4-12-2017   TSO Table V
24       4-22-2017   TSO Table V
2017-27  6-14-2017   TSO Table V
2017-28  7-12-2017   92.02
2017-29  7-12-2017   92.65
2017-31  8-9-2017    36.001
2017-32  8-9-2017    TSO Table I
2017-34  9-13-2017   36.001
2017-35  10-11-2017  TSO Table V
2018-01  1-24-2018   36.001
2018-02  2-14-2018   TSO Table V
                     153.001 –
                     153.006,
                     153.020,
                     153.035-
                     153.040,
                     153.055-153.058,
2018-03  2-14-2018   153.075,
                     153.076, 153.090-
                     153.093,
                     153.105-
                     153.111,
                     153.125-153.131, 153.145-153.148, 153.160-153.163,
                     153.999,
                     Ch. 153 App. A – F
2018-04  2-28-2018   36.001
2018-05  2-28-2018   TSO Table V
2018-06  4-11-2018   33.215 –
                     33.225
                     93.01,
2018-07  4-17-2018   93.02,
                     93.99
2018-08  5-9-2018    36.001
2018-10  5-23-2018   TSO Table V
                     155.180,
                     155.182-
2018-11  6-27-2018   155.184,
                     155.187-
                     155.190,
                     155.999
2018-14  8-8-2018    36.001
2018-16  8-8-2018    TSO Table V
2018-18  9-12-2018   114.14
2018-20  9-26-2018   110.22,
                     110.99
2018-21  9-26-2018   36.001
2018-23  12-26-2018  TSO Table V
2019-01  2-27-2019   31.01
2019-04  7-10-2019   33.240 –
                     33.247
2019-05  7-10-2019   36.089
2019-07  9-4-2019    TSO Table V
2019-09  12-23-2019  70.01
                     153.001 –
                     153.006,
                     153.020,
                     153.035-
                     153.040,
                     153.055 -
                     153.058,
                     153.075,
                     153.076,
                     153.090 -
-        1- -2020    153.093,
                     153.105 -
                     153.111,
                     153.125 -
                     153.131,
                     153.145 -
                     153.148,
                     153.160 -
                     153.163,
                     153.999,
                     Ch. 153 App. A – F
2020-01  2-12-2020   31.11
2020-05  9-9-2020    31.11
2020-07  11-12-2020  TSO Table I
                     33.181,
                     33.183,
2020-08  11-12-2020  33.184,
                     33.198,
                     33.204,
                     33.205
2020-10  12-22-2020  TSO Table V
2020-11  12-22-2020  TSO Table V
2020-12  12-22-2020  TSO Table V
2021-2   1-28-2021   TSO Table V
2021-3   3-25-2021   TSO Table V
2021-4   5-27-2021   TSO Table I
2021-5   5-12-2021   93.02
                     51.20 –
2021-07  5-27-2021   51.30,
                     51.99
2021-9   6-24-2021   TSO Table V
2022-1   3-9-2022    TSO Table V
                     33.180 -
                     33.182,
                     33.185 -
                     33.187,
                     33.190,
                     33.192 -
                     33.200,
                     33.204,
                     33.205,
                     33.215 -
                     33.225,
2022-2   3-24-2022   90.03,
                     90.04,
                     90.09,
                     90.10,
                     99.11,
                     90.30 -
                     90.35,
                     90.50 -
                     90.55,
                     90.70,
                     90.71,
                     90.99
2022-9   9-22-2022   155.007
2022-10  9-22-2022   114.14
2022-11  9-22-2022   TSO I
2022-13  11-22-2022  TSO I
2023-01  2-23-2023   TSO V
2023-04  6-22-2023   156.01 -
                     156.08
2023-07  8-9-2023    TSO V
2023-09  10-4-2023   TSO I
3        5-8-2024    110.03 -
                     110.05
2024-1   1-25-2024   31.01
2024-3   5-8-2024    110.03 -
                     110.05
2024-7   9-11-2024   TSO Table V
2024-8   9-11-2024   TSO Table V
2024-9   9-11-2024   TSO Table V
2024-10  10-9-2024   TSO Table V
2024-11  10-9-2024   TSO Table V
2024-12  10-24-2024  39.04
                    
 
 
