CLOVERPORT, KENTUCKY
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2023 S-1 Supplement contains:
Local legislation current through Ord. 2023.08.02, passed 8-21-2023
State legislation current through KRS Pamphlet 2023
 
Published by:
AMERICAN LEGAL PUBLISHING CORPORATION
525 Vine Street, Ste. 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-800-445-5588 www.amlegal.com
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
      
11.   CODE ENFORCEMENT BOARD
CHAPTER 10: RULES OF CONSTRUCTION;
GENERAL PENALTY
Section
   
10.01   Short titles
   
10.02   Definitions
   
10.03   Rules of construction
   
10.04   Computation of time
   
10.05   Majority may act for all; authorized agent
   
10.06   Writings and signatures
   
10.07   Severability
   
10.08   Revivor
   
10.09   Rights and liabilities accruing before repeal of ordinance
   
10.10   Construction of section references
   
10.11   Ordinances repealed
   
10.12   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.13   Ordinances saved
   
10.14   Amendments to code; amendatory language
   
10.15   Conflicting provisions
   
10.16   Reference to offices
   
10.17   Errors and omissions
   
10.18   Historical and statutory references
 
   
10.99   Penalty
§ 10.01 SHORT TITLES
   (A)   All ordinances of a permanent and general nature of the city as
revised, codified, rearranged, renumbered, and consolidated into component
codes, titles, chapters, and sections shall be known and designated as the
Cloverport, Kentucky Code of Ordinances, for which designation “codified
ordinances” or “code” may be substituted. Code, title, chapter, and section
headings do not constitute any part of the law as contained in the code.
(KRS 446.140)
   (B)   All references to codes, titles, chapters, and sections are to such
components of the code unless otherwise specified. Any component code may be
referred to and cited by its name, such as the “Traffic Code.” Sections may be
referred to and cited by the designation “§” followed by the number, such as “§
10.01.” Headings and captions used in this code other than the title, chapter,
and section numbers, are employed for reference purposes only and shall not be
deemed a part of the text of any section.
(Prior Code, § 10.01)
§ 10.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this code, the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACTION. Includes all proceedings in any court of this state.
(KRS 446.010(1))
   AND. May be read OR, and OR may be read AND, if the sense requires it.
   ANIMAL. Includes every warm-blooded living creature except a human being.
(KRS 446.010(2))
   CITY, MUNICIPAL CORPORATION, or MUNICIPALITY. When used in this code, shall
denote the City of Cloverport, Kentucky, irrespective of its population or
legal classification.
   COMPANY. May extend and be applied to any corporation, company, person,
partnership, joint stock company, or association.
(KRS 446.010(9))
   CORPORATION. May extend and be applied to any corporation, company,
partnership, joint stock company, or association.
(KRS 446.010(10))
   COUNCIL. The city legislative body.
(KRS 83A.010(5))
   COUNTY. Breckinridge County, Kentucky.
   CRUELTY. As applied to animals, includes every act or omission whereby
unjustifiable physical pain, suffering, or death is caused or permitted.
(KRS 446.010(12 ))
   DIRECTORS. When applied to corporations, includes managers or trustees.
(KRS 446.010(13))
   DOMESTIC. When applied to corporations, partnerships, limited partnerships,
or limited liability companies, means all those incorporated or formed by
authority of this state.
(KRS 446.010(14))
   DOMESTIC ANIMAL. Any animal converted to domestic habitat.
(KRS 446.010(15))
   EXECUTIVE AUTHORITY. The Mayor.
(KRS 83A.010(6))
   FEDERAL. Refers to the United States.
(KRS 446.010(17))
   FOREIGN. When applied to corporations, partnerships, limited partnerships,
or limited liability companies, includes all those incorporated or formed by
authority of any other state.
(KRS 446.010(18))
   KEEPER or PROPRIETOR. Includes all persons, whether acting by themselves or
as a servant, agent, or employee.
   KRS. Kentucky Revised Statutes.
   LAND or REAL ESTATE. Includes lands, tenements, and hereditaments and all
rights thereto and interest therein, other than a chattel interest.
(KRS 446.010(23))
   LEGISLATIVE BODY. The City Council.
(KRS 91A.010(7))
   LEGISLATIVE BODY MEMBER. A City Council member.
(KRS 83A.010(7))
   LIVESTOCK. Cattle, sheep, swine, goats, horses, alpacas, llamas, buffaloes,
or any other animals of the bovine, ovine, porcine, caprine, equine, or camelid
species.
(KRS 446.010(25))
   MAY. The act referred to is permissive.
(KRS 446.010(26))
   MISDEMEANOR. An offense for which the criminal fine can not exceed the
amount set forth in KRS 534.040(2)(a), or a term of imprisonment not to exceed
the periods set forth in KRS 532.090(1) or both.
(KRS 83A.065)
   MONTH. Calendar month.
(KRS 446.010(27))
   MUNICIPAL ORDER. An official act of the City Council which is binding upon
the officers and employees of the city and any governmental agency over which
the municipality has jurisdiction.
(KRS 83A.010(9))
   MUNICIPALITY. The City of Cloverport, Kentucky.
   OATH. Includes AFFIRMATION in all cases in which an affirmation may be
substituted for an oath.
(KRS 446.010(28))
   OFFICER. Any person elected to a position by the voters or any person
appointed to a position which:
      (1)   Is created by the Constitution, the General Assembly, or a city;
      (2)   Possesses a delegation of a portion of the sovereign power of
government;
      (3)   Has powers and duties to be discharged which are conferred directly
or by implication by the city;
      (4)   Has duties performed independently and without control of a
superior power other than the law;
      (5)   Has some permanency;
      (6)   Requires an official oath;
      (7)   Is assigned by a commission or other written authority; and
      (8)   Provides for an official bond if required by proper authority.
(KRS 83A.010(10))
   ORDINANCE. An official act of a city legislative body, which is a regulation
of a general and permanent nature and enforceable as a local law or is an
appropriation of money.
(KRS 83A.010(11))
   PARTNERSHIP. Includes bother general and limited partnerships.
(KRS 446.010(30))
   PEACE OFFICER. Includes sheriffs, constables granted police powers,
coroners, jailers, metropolitan and urban-county government correctional
officers, marshals, police officers, and other persons with similar authority
to make arrests.
(KRS 446.010(31))
   PERSON. May extend and be applied to bodies-politic and corporate,
societies, communities, and public generally, individuals, partnerships,
registered limited liability partnerships, and joint stock companies and
limited liability companies.
(KRS 446.010(33))
   PERSONAL PROPERTY. Includes all property except real.
   PREMISES. As applied to property, includes land and buildings.
   PROPERTY. Includes real, personal, mixed estates, and interests.
   PUBLIC AUTHORITY. Includes boards of education; the municipal, county,
state, or federal government, its officers or an agency thereof; or any duly
authorized public official.
   PUBLIC PLACE. Includes any street, sidewalk, park, cemetery, school yard,
body of water or watercourse, public conveyance, or any other place for the
sale of merchandise, public accommodation, or amusement.
   REAL PROPERTY. Includes lands, tenements, and hereditaments.
   REGULAR ELECTION. The election in even numbered years at which members of
Congress are elected and the election in odd-numbered years at which state
officers are elected.
(KRS 446.010(37))
   RESOLUTION. A less formal mechanism for dealing with matters of a special or
temporary character. While an ordinance, and to a large extent a municipal
order, involves a distinctly legislative act, a resolution is simply an
expression of the opinion, will, or policy of the legislative body on some
matter of ministerial business which has come before the body.
   SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory.
(KRS 446.010(39))
   SWORN. Includes AFFIRMED in all cases in which an affirmation may be
substituted for an oath.
(KRS 446.010(43))
   SIDEWALK. The portion of the street between the curb line and the adjacent
property line intended for the use of pedestrians.
   STATE. The Commonwealth of Kentucky.
   STREET. Includes alleys, avenues, boulevards, lanes, roads, highways,
viaducts, and all other public thoroughfares within the city.
   SUBCHAPTER. A division of a chapter, designated in this code by an
underlined heading in the chapter analysis and a capitalized heading in the
body of the chapter, setting apart a group of sections related by the subject
matter of the heading. Not all chapters have subchapters.
   TENANT or OCCUPANT. As applied to premises, includes any person holding a
written or oral lease, or who actually occupies the whole or any part of such
premises, alone or with others.
   VACANCY IN OFFICE. Such as exists when there is an unexpired part of a term
of office without a lawful incumbent therein, or when the person elected or
appointed to an office fails to qualify according to law, or when there has
been no election to fill the office at the time appointed by law; it applies
whether the vacancy is occasioned by death, resignation, removal from the
state, county, or district, or otherwise.
(KRS 446.010(46))
   VIOLATION. An offense for which the criminal fine can not exceed the amount
set forth in KRS 534.040(2)(c).
(KRS 83A.065)
   VIOLATE. Includes failure to comply with.
(KRS 446.010(47))
   YEAR. Calendar year.
(KRS 446.010(49))
(Prior Code, § 10.02)
§ 10.03 RULES OF CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   Singular includes plural. A word importing the singular number only
may extend and be applied to several persons or things, as well as to one
person or thing, and a word importing the plural number only may extend and be
applied to one person or thing as well as to several persons or things.
(KRS 446.020(1))
   (B)   Masculine includes feminine. A word importing the masculine gender
only may extend and be applied to females as well as males.
(KRS 446.020(2))
   (C)   Liberal construction. All sections of this code shall be liberally
construed with a view to promote their objects and carry out the intent of
Council.
(KRS 446.080(1))
   (D)   Retroactivity. No ordinance shall be construed to be retroactive,
unless expressly so declared.
(KRS 446.080(3))
   (E)   Technical terms. All words and phrases shall be construed according to
the common and approved usage of language, but technical words and phrases and
such others as may have acquired a peculiar and appropriate meaning in the law,
shall be construed according to such meaning.
(KRS 446.080(4))
(Prior Code, § 10.03)
§ 10.04 COMPUTATION OF TIME.
   (A)   In computing any period of time prescribed or allowed by order of
court, or by any applicable ordinance or regulation, the day of the act, event,
or default after which the designated period of time begins to run is not to be
included. The last day of the period so computed is to be included, unless it
is a Saturday, a Sunday, a legal holiday, or a day on which the public office
in which a document is required to be filed is actually and legally closed, in
which event the period runs until the end of the next day which is not one of
the days just mentioned. When the period of time prescribed or allowed is less
than seven days, intermediate Saturdays, Sundays, and legal holidays shall be
excluded in the computation.
   (B)   When an ordinance, regulation, or order of court requires an act to be
done either a certain time before an event or a certain time before the day on
which an event occurs, the day of the event shall be excluded in computing the
time. If the day thereby computed on which or by which the act is required to
be done falls on a Saturday, Sunday, legal holiday, or a day on which the
public office in which the act is required to be completed is actually and
legally closed, the act may be done on the next day which is none of the days
just mentioned.
   (C)   If any proceeding is directed by law to take place, or any act is
directed to be done, on a particular day of a month and that day is Sunday, the
proceeding shall take place, or the act shall be done, on the next day that is
not a legal holiday.
(KRS 446.030)
   (D)   In all cases where the law requires any act to be done in a reasonable
time or reasonable notice to be given, such reasonable time or notice shall
mean the time only as may be necessary for the prompt performance of such duty
or compliance with such notice.
(Prior Code, § 10.04)
§ 10.05 MAJORITY MAY ACT FOR ALL; AUTHORIZED AGENT.
   (A)   Words giving authority to three or more public officers or other
persons shall be construed as giving such authority to a majority of such
officers or other persons.
(KRS 446.050)
   (B)   When the law requires an act to be done which may by law as well be
done by an agent as by the principal, such requirement shall be construed to
include such acts when done by an authorized agent.
(Prior Code, § 10.05)
§ 10.06 WRITINGS AND SIGNATURES.
   (A)   When this code requires any writing to be signed by a party thereto,
it shall not be deemed to be signed unless the signature is subscribed at the
end or close of the writing.
   (B)   Every writing contemplated by this code shall be in the English
language.
(KRS 446.060)
(Prior Code, § 10.06)
§ 10.07 SEVERABILITY.
   It shall be considered that it is the intent of Council in enacting any
ordinance, that if any part of the ordinance be held unconstitutional the
remaining parts shall remain in force, unless the ordinance provides otherwise,
or unless the remaining parts are so essentially and inseparably connected with
and dependent upon the unconstitutional part that it is apparent that Council
would not have enacted the remaining parts without the unconstitutional part,
or unless the remaining parts, standing alone, are incomplete and incapable of
being executed in accordance with the intent of Council.
(KRS 446.090) (Prior Code, § 10.07)
§ 10.08 REVIVOR.
   (A)   A repealed ordinance without a delayed effective date is revived when
the ordinance that repealed it is repealed by another ordinance enacted at the
same meeting of Council.
   (B)   A repealed ordinance with a delayed effective date is revived by the
enactment of a repealer of the ordinance that repealed it at the same or any
subsequent meeting of Council as long as it takes effect prior to the effective
date of the original repealer.
   (C)   An amended ordinance without a delayed effective date remains
unchanged with respect to an amendment which is repealed at the same meeting of
Council which enacted the amendment.
   (D)   An amended ordinance with a delayed effective date remains unchanged
with respect to that amendment if the ordinance making the amendment is
repealed at the same or at a subsequent meeting of Council as long as the
repealing ordinance takes effect prior to the effective date of the original
amendment.
   (E)   No other action of Council repealing a repealer or an amendment shall
have the effect of reviving the original language of the repealer or amendment
as the case may be.
(KRS 446.100) (Prior Code, § 10.08)
§ 10.09 RIGHTS AND LIABILITIES ACCRUING BEFORE REPEAL OF ORDINANCE.
   No new ordinance shall be construed to repeal a former ordinance as to any
offense committed against a former ordinance, nor as to any act done, or
penalty, forfeiture, or punishment incurred, or any right accrued or claim
arising under the former ordinance, or in any way whatever to affect any such
offense or act so committed or done, or any penalty, forfeiture, or punishment
so incurred, or any right accrued or claim arising before the new ordinance
takes effect, except that the proceedings thereafter had shall conform, so far
as practicable, to the laws in force at the time of such proceedings. If any
penalty, forfeiture, or punishment is mitigated by any provision of the new
ordinance, such provision may, by the consent of the party affected, be applied
to any judgment pronounced after the new ordinance takes effect.
(KRS 446.110) (Prior Code, § 10.09)
§ 10.10 CONSTRUCTION OF SECTION REFERENCES.
   (A)   Wherever in a penalty section, reference is made to a violation of a
section or an inclusive group of sections, such reference shall be construed to
mean a violation of any provision of the section or sections included in the
reference.
   (B)   References in the code to action taken or authorized under designated
sections of the code include, in every case, action taken or authorized under
the applicable legislative provision which is superseded by this code.
   (C)   Whenever in one section, reference is made to another section hereof,
the reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified, or renumbered, unless the subject matter be
changed or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
(Prior Code, § 10.10)
§ 10.11 ORDINANCES REPEALED.
   This code, from and after its effective date, shall contain all of the
provisions of a general nature pertaining to the subjects herein enumerated and
embraced. All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated by this code
shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date of this code of
ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 10.11)
§ 10.12 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature and all other ordinances
pertaining to subjects not enumerated and embraced in this code of ordinances,
shall remain in full force and effect unless herein repealed expressly or by
necessary implication.
(Prior Code, § 10.12)
§ 10.13 ORDINANCES SAVED.
   Whenever an ordinance by its nature either authorizes or enables the
Council, or a certain city officer or employee, to make additional ordinances
or regulations for the purpose of carrying out the intent of the ordinance, all
ordinances and regulations of a similar nature serving such purpose effected
prior to the codification and not inconsistent thereto, shall remain in effect
and are saved.
(Prior Code, § 10.13)
§ 10.14 AMENDMENTS TO CODE; AMENDATORY LANGUAGE.
   (A)   Any chapter, section, or division amended or added to this code by
ordinances passed subsequent to this code may be numbered in accordance with
the numbering system of this code and printed for inclusion herein. Any
chapter, section, or division repealed by subsequent ordinances may be excluded
from this code by omission from reprinted pages. Subsequent ordinances as
printed or omitted shall be prima facie evidence of such subsequent ordinances
until Council shall adopt a new code of ordinances.
   (B)   The method of amendment set forth in §
32.37 of this code of ordinances should be used by the city to amend, add, or
repeal a chapter, section, or division of this code of ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 10.14)
§ 10.15 CONFLICTING PROVISIONS.
   If the provisions of different codes, chapters, or sections of the codified
ordinances conflict with or contravene each other, the provisions bearing the
latest passage date shall prevail. If the conflicting provisions bear the same
passage date, the conflict shall be so construed as to be consistent with the
meaning or legal effect of the questions of the subject matter taken as a
whole.
(Prior Code, § 10.15)
§ 10.16 REFERENCE TO OFFICES.
   Reference to a public office or officer shall be deemed to apply to any
office, officer, or employee of the city exercising the powers, duties, or
functions contemplated in the provision, irrespective of any transfer of
functions or change in the official title of the functionary.
(Prior Code, § 10.16)
§ 10.17 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error be discovered consisting of the misspelling of any word
or words, the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention
of the provisions affected, the use of a word or words to which no meaning can
be attached, or the use of a word or words when another word or words was
clearly intended to express the intention, the spelling shall be corrected, and
the word or words supplied, omitted, or substituted as will conform with the
manifest intention, and the provision shall have the same effect as though the
correct words were contained in the text as originally published. No alteration
shall be made or permitted if any question exists regarding the nature or
extent of such error.
(Prior Code, § 10.17)
§ 10.18 HISTORICAL AND STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   As histories for the code sections, the specific number and passage
date of the original ordinance, and amending ordinances, if any, are listed
following the text of the code section. Example: (Ord. 10, passed 5-13-1960;
Ord. 15, passed 1-1-1970; Ord. 20, passed 1-1-1980; Ord. 25, passed 1-1-1985)
   (B)   If a KRS cite is included in the history, this indicates that the text
of the section reads word-for-word the same as the statute. Example: (KRS
83A.090) (Ord. 10, passed 1-17-1980; Ord. 20, passed 1-1-1985). If a KRS cite
is set forth as a “statutory reference” following the text of the section, this
indicates that the reader should refer to that statute for further information.
Example:
      § 31.10 MAYOR.
         The executive authority of the city shall be vested in and exercised
by the Mayor.
      (Ord. 10, passed 1-1-1980)
      Statutory reference:
         For powers and duties of the Mayor, see KRS 83A.130
(Prior Code, § 10.18)
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   Where an act or omission is prohibited or declared unlawful in this code of
ordinances, and no penalty of fine or imprisonment is otherwise provided, the
offender shall be guilty of a violation and shall, upon conviction, be subject
to a fine of not more than $250. Each day a violation continues to exist shall
be deemed a separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 10.99)
CHAPTER 11: CODE ENFORCEMENT BOARD
Section
   
11.01   Definitions
   
11.02   Creation and membership
   
11.03   Enforcement powers
   
11.04   Appointments of members; term of office; removal from office; oath;
compensation
   
11.05   Organization of Board; meetings; quorum
   
11.06   Conflict of interest
   
11.07   Powers of Code Enforcement Board
   
11.08   Hearing officers
   
11.09   Enforcement proceedings
   
11.10   Hearing; notice; final order
   
11.11   Presentation of cases
   
11.12   Appeals; final judgment
   
11.13   Ordinance fine schedule
   
11.14   Lien; fines; charges; fees
   
11.15   Lienholder notification system
   
11.16   Liens
   
11.17   Immediate action
§ 11.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABATEMENT COSTS. A city’s necessary and reasonable costs for and associated
with clearing, preventing unauthorized entry to, or demolishing all or a
portion of a structure or premises, or taking any other action with regard to a
structure or premises necessary to remedy a violation and to maintain and
preserve the public health, safety, and welfare in accordance with any city
ordinance.
   CODE ENFORCEMENT BOARD. An administrative body created and acting under the
authority of the Local Government Code Enforcement Board Act, KRS 65.8801 to
65.8839.
   CODE ENFORCEMENT OFFICER. A city police officer, safety officer, citation
officer, or other public law enforcement officer with the authority to issue a
citation.
   FINAL ORDER. Any order:
      (1)   Issued by the Code Enforcement Board in accordance with §
11.10(E) of this chapter;
      (2)   Issued by an assigned hearing officer in accordance with §
11.10(E) of this chapter;
      (3)   Created because a violator neither paid nor contested the citation
within seven days as provided in §
11.09(F) of this chapter; or
      (4)   Created because a violator failed to appear at a hearing the
violator requested to contest the citation as provided in §
11.10(C) of this chapter.
   IMMINENT DANGER. A condition which is likely to cause serious or life-
threatening injury or death at any time.
   ORDINANCE. An official action of a local government body, which is a
regulation of a general and permanent nature and enforceable as a local law and
shall include any provision of a code of ordinances adopted by the city
legislative body which embodies all or part of an ordinance.
   OWNER. A person, association, corporation, partnership, or other legal
entity having a legal or equitable title in real property.
   PREMISES. A lot, plot, or parcel of land, including any structures upon it.
(Ord. 2016.09.1, passed 9-19-2016)
§ 11.02 CREATION AND MEMBERSHIP.
   There is hereby created pursuant to KRS 65.8801 to 65.8839 within the city,
a Code Enforcement Board which shall be composed of no fewer than three
members, all of whom shall be residents of the city for a period of at least
one year prior to the creation of the Board and shall reside there throughout
the term in office.
(Ord. 2016.09.1, passed 9-19-2016)
§ 11.03 ENFORCEMENT POWERS.
   (A)   The Code Enforcement Board shall have the power to issue remedial
orders and impose civil fines as a method of enforcing city ordinances when a
violation of the ordinance has been classified as a civil offense.
   (B)   The Code Enforcement Board shall not have the authority to enforce any
ordinance regulating conduct which would also, under any provision of the state
statutes, constitute a criminal offense or a moving motor vehicle offense.
(Ord. 2016.09.1, passed 9-19-2016)
§ 11.04 APPOINTMENT OF MEMBERS; TERM OF OFFICE; REMOVAL FROM OFFICE; OATH;
COMPENSATION.
   (A)   Members of the Code Enforcement Board shall be appointed by the
executive authority of the city, subject to the approval of the legislative
body.
   (B)   The initial appointment to the Code Enforcement Board shall be as
follows:
      (1)   One-third of the membership or one-third of the membership and one
member of the Board shall be appointed for a term of one year;
      (2)   One-third of the membership or one-third of the membership and one
member of the Board shall be appointed for a term of two years; and
      (3)   One-third of the membership or one-third of the membership and one
member of the Board shall be appointed for a term of three years.
   (C)   All subsequent appointments shall be for a term of three years. A
member may be reappointed, subject to the approval of the legislative body.
   (D)   The executive authority may appoint, subject to the approval of the
legislative body, two alternate members to serve on the Code Enforcement Board
in the absence of regular members. Alternate members shall meet all of the
qualifications and shall be subject to all of the requirements that apply to
regular members of the Code Enforcement Board.
   (E)   Any vacancy on the Board shall be filled by the executive authority,
subject to approval of the legislative body, within 60 days of the vacancy. If
the vacancy is not filled within that time period, the remaining Code
Enforcement Board members shall fill the vacancy. A vacancy shall be filled for
the remainder of the unexpired term.
   (F)   A Board member may be removed from office by the executive authority
for misconduct, inefficiency, or willful neglect of duty. The executive
authority shall submit a written statement to the member and the legislative
body setting forth the reasons for removal. The member so removed shall have
the right of appeal to the Circuit Court.
   (G)   All members of the Code Enforcement Board shall, before entering upon
the duties of their office, take the oath of office prescribed by § 228 of the
Kentucky Constitution.
   (H)   No member of the Code Enforcement Board shall hold any elected or
nonelected office, paid or unpaid, or any position of employment with the city.
(Ord. 2016.09.1, passed 9-19-2016)
§ 11.05 ORGANIZATION OF BOARD; MEETINGS; QUORUM.
   (A)   The Code Enforcement Board shall annually elect a chair from among its
members. The chair shall be the presiding officer and a full voting member of
the Board. In the absence of the chair, the remaining members of the Board
shall select a member to preside in place of and exercise the powers of the
chair.
   (B)   Regular meetings of the Code Enforcement Board shall be held on the
third Monday of every month. Meetings other than those regularly scheduled
shall be special meetings or emergency meetings held in accordance with the
requirements of the Kentucky Open Meetings Act, being KRS 61.805 et seq.
   (C)   All meetings and hearings of the Code Enforcement Board shall be
public meetings held in accordance with the requirements of KRS 65.8815(5) and
the Kentucky Open Meetings Act.
   (D)   The presence of at least a majority of the Board’s entire membership
shall constitute a quorum. The affirmative vote of a majority of a quorum of
the Board shall be necessary for any official action to be taken.
   (E)   Minutes shall be kept for all proceedings of the Code Enforcement
Board and the vote of each member on any issue decided by the Board shall be
recorded in the minutes.
(Ord. 2016.09.1, passed 9-19-2016)
§ 11.06 CONFLICT OF INTEREST.
   Any member of the Code Enforcement Board who has any direct or indirect
financial or personal interest in any matter to be decided shall disclose the
nature of the interest, disqualify himself or herself from voting on the matter
in which he or she has an interest, and shall not be counted for purposes of
establishing a quorum.
(Ord. 2016.09.1, passed 9-19-2016)
§ 11.07 POWERS OF THE CODE ENFORCEMENT BOARD.
   The Code Enforcement Board shall have the following powers and duties:
   (A)   To adopt rules and regulations to govern its operations and the
conduct of its hearings consistent with this chapter;
   (B)   To conduct hearings to determine if there has been a violation of an
ordinance over which it has jurisdiction;
   (C)   To subpoena alleged violators, witnesses, and evidence to its
hearings. Subpoenas issued by the Code Enforcement Board may be served by any
code enforcement officer;
   (D)   To take testimony under oath. The chairperson shall have the authority
to administer oaths for the purpose of taking testimony;
   (E)   To make findings of fact and issue orders necessary to remedy any
violation of a city ordinance or code provision which the Board is authorized
to enforce;
   (F)   To impose civil fines, as authorized, on any person found to have
violated an ordinance over which the Board has jurisdiction; and
   (G)   To assign a hearing officer to conduct hearings in accordance with §
11.08 of this chapter.
(Ord. 2016.09.1, passed 9-19-2016)
§ 11.08 HEARING OFFICERS.
   (A)   Eligibility.
      (1)   The Code Enforcement Board may assign any of its members, including
the chair, to be a hearing officer.
      (2)   The Board may assign an individual who is not a member of the Board
to be a hearing officer as long as the individual does not hold any elected or
appointed office or position of employment with the city.
   (B)   Experience and training.
      (1)   A person assigned to be a hearing officer by the Code Enforcement
Board shall have experience or shall have received training in the code
enforcement process and basic procedural due process. At a minimum, the
experience or training shall include acquired knowledge regarding a party’s
fundamental due process right to:
         (a)   Be accompanied and advised by counsel at the hearing;
         (b)   Present evidence and witnesses on his or her behalf at the
hearing;
         (c)   Examine the evidence opposing the party; and
         (d)   Confront and cross-examine the witnesses opposing the party.
      (2)   The Code Enforcement Board may establish additional standards in
writing, including but not limited to examples of qualifying experience and
training, and minimum amounts of experience or training required.
      (3)   Before assigning a person as a hearing officer, the Code
Enforcement Board shall require the person to submit a written, signed
affidavit describing and verifying the experience or training received. The
affidavit shall be provided on a form prescribed by the Code Enforcement Board.
      (4)   The Code Enforcement Board shall determine whether the affidavit
satisfies the experience or training requirements as set forth in this division
(B)(4) and any additional standards established in writing by the Board. The
Board shall not assign a person as a hearing officer unless it has determined
that the affidavit satisfies the experience or training requirements.
   (C)   Hearing powers and procedures.
      (1)   An assigned hearing officer may administer oaths to witnesses prior
to their testimony and subpoena alleged violators, witnesses, and evidence.
      (2)   Any hearing conducted by a hearing officer shall conform to the
procedural requirements in §
11.10 of this chapter.
   (D)   Final order.
      (1)   Following a hearing, the assigned hearing officer shall make
written findings of facts and conclusions of law, and enter a final order in
accordance with §
11.10(E) of this chapter.
      (2)   Within 24 hours of entry, these findings, conclusions, and final
order shall be forwarded to the alleged violator, and to the Code Enforcement
Board. The findings, conclusions, and recommended order may be delivered to the
alleged violator by regular first-class mail; certified mail, return receipt
requested; personal delivery; or by leaving the notice at the person’s usual
place of residence with any individual residing therein who is 18 years of age
or older and who is informed of the contents of the delivery.
   (E)   Appeal from final order. An alleged violator may appeal a final order
issued by a hearing officer directly to District Court, in accordance with §
11.12 of this chapter.
(Ord. 2016.09.1, passed 9-19-2016)
§ 11.09 ENFORCEMENT PROCEEDINGS.
    The following requirements shall govern all enforcement proceedings before
the Code Enforcement Board or hearing officer.
   (A)   Enforcement proceedings shall only be initiated by the issuance of a
citation by a code enforcement officer.
   (B)   Except when immediate action is necessary pursuant to §
11.17 of this chapter, if a code enforcement officer believes, based on his or
her personal observation or investigation, that a person has violated a city
ordinance, he or she shall issue a notice of violation allowing the alleged
violator a specified period of time to remedy the violation without incurring a
fine. If the alleged violator fails or refuses to remedy the violation within
the time specified, the code enforcement officer is authorized to issue a
citation.
   (C)   The code enforcement officer shall issue the citation by one of the
following methods:
      (1)   Personal service to the alleged violator;
      (2)   Leaving a copy of the citation with any person 18 years of age or
older who is on the premises, if the alleged violator is not on the premises at
the time the citation is issued; or
      (3)   Posting a copy of the citation in a conspicuous place on the
premises and mailing a copy of the citation by regular, first-class mail to the
owner of record of the property, if no one is on the premises at the time the
citation is issued.
   (D)   The citation issued by the code enforcement officer shall contain the
following information:
      (1)   The date and time of issuance;
      (2)   The name and address of the person to whom the citation is issued;
      (3)   The physical address of the premises where the violation occurred;
      (4)   The date and time the offense was committed;
      (5)   The facts constituting the offense;
      (6)   The section of the code or the number of the ordinance violated;
      (7)   The name of the code enforcement officer;
      (8)   The civil fine that may be imposed for the violation, including, if
applicable:
         (a)   The civil fine that will be imposed if the person does not
contest the citation; and
         (b)   The maximum civil fine that may be imposed if the person elects
to contest the citation.
      (9)   The procedure for the person to follow in order to pay the civil
fine or to contest the citation; and
      (10)   A statement that if the person fails to pay the civil fine set
forth in the citation or contest the citation within the time allowed, the
person shall be deemed to have waived the right to a hearing before the Code
Enforcement Board or hearing officer to contest the citation; the determination
that the violation was committed shall be final; the citation as issued shall
be deemed a final order determining that the violation was committed and
imposing the civil fine as set forth in the citation; and the person shall be
deemed to have waived the right to appeal the final order to District Court.
   (E)   After issuing a citation to an alleged violator, the code enforcement
officer shall notify the Code Enforcement Board by delivering the citation to
City Clerk-Treasurer.
   (F)   (1)   The person to whom the citation is issued shall respond to the
citation within seven days of the date of issuance by either paying the civil
fine or requesting, in writing, a hearing to contest the citation. If the
person fails to respond to the citation within seven days, the person shall be
deemed to have waived the right to a hearing and the determination that a
violation was committed shall be considered final. In this event, the citation
as issued shall be deemed a final order determining that the violation was
committed and imposing the civil fine as set forth in the citation, and the
person shall be deemed to have waived the right to appeal the final order to
District Court.
      (2)   Notice of the final order shall be delivered to the cited violator
by regular first-class mail; certified mail, return receipt requested; personal
delivery; or by leaving the notice at the person’s usual place of residence
with any individual residing therein who is 18 years of age or older and who is
informed of the contents of the delivery.
(Ord. 2016.09.1, passed 9-19-2016)
§ 11.10 HEARING; NOTICE; FINAL ORDER.
   (A)   When a hearing has been requested, the Code Enforcement Board or its
administrative staff shall schedule a hearing.
   (B)   Not less than seven days before the date of the hearing, the Code
Enforcement Board shall notify the requester of the date, time, and place of
the hearing. The notice may be given by regular first-class mail; certified
mail, return receipt requested; personal delivery; or by leaving the notice at
the person’s usual place of residence with any individual residing therein who
is 18 years of age or older and who is informed of the contents of the notice.
   (C)   (1)   Any person requesting a hearing who fails to appear at the time
and place set for the hearing shall be deemed to have waived the right to a
hearing to contest the citation, and the determination that a violation was
committed shall be final. In this event, the citation as issued shall be deemed
a final order determining the violation was committed and imposing the civil
fine set forth in the citation, and the alleged violator shall be deemed to
have waived the right to appeal the final order to District Court.
      (2)   Notice of a final order shall be provided to the cited violator by
regular first-class mail; certified mail, return receipt requested; personal
delivery; or by leaving the notice at the person’s usual place of residence
with any individual residing therein who is 18 years of age or older and who is
informed of the contents of the notice.
   (D)   All testimony at the hearing shall be taken under oath and recorded.
Testimony shall be taken from the code enforcement officer, the alleged
violator, and any witnesses to the violation offered by the code enforcement
officer or alleged violator. Formal rules of evidence shall not apply, but
fundamental due process shall be observed and shall govern the proceedings.
   (E)   The Code Enforcement Board or assigned hearing officer shall, based on
the evidence, determine whether a violation was committed. If it is determined
that no violation was committed, an order dismissing the citation shall be
entered. If it is determined that a violation was committed, an order may be
issued upholding the citation. The Board or hearing officer may impose a fine
up to the maximum authorized by ordinance or require the offender to remedy a
continuing violation to avoid a fine, or both.
   (F)   (1)   Every final order following a hearing shall be reduced to
writing, which shall include the findings and conclusions reached and the date
the order was issued. A copy shall be furnished to the person named in the
citation.
      (2)   If the person named in the citation is not present when the final
order is issued, the order shall be delivered by regular first-class mail;
certified mail, return receipt requested; personal delivery; or by leaving the
notice at the person’s usual place of residence with any individual residing
therein who is 18 years of age or older and who is informed of the contents of
the notice.
(Ord. 2016.09.1, passed 9-19-2016)
§ 11.11 PRESENTATION OF CASES.
   Each case before the Code Enforcement Board or assigned hearing officer
shall be presented by an attorney selected by the city, a code enforcement
officer for the city, or by a member of the city’s administrative staff. The
City Attorney may either be counsel to the Code Enforcement Board or hearing
officer, or may present cases before the Board or hearing officer, but shall in
no case serve in both capacities.
(Ord. 2016.09.1, passed 9-19-2016)
§ 11.12 APPEALS; FINAL JUDGMENT.
   (A)   An appeal from a final order of a Code Enforcement Board or assigned
hearing officer following a hearing conducted pursuant to §
11.10(E) of this chapter may be made to the County District Court within 30
days of the date the order is issued. The appeal shall be initiated by the
filing of a complaint and a copy of the final order in the same manner as any
civil action under the Kentucky Rules of Civil Procedure.
   (B)   If no appeal from a final order following a hearing is filed within
the time period set in division (A) above, the order shall be deemed final for
all purposes.
(Ord. 2016.09.1, passed 9-19-2016)
§ 11.13 ORDINANCE FINE SCHEDULE.
   Violations of ordinances that are enforced by the Code Enforcement Board or
an assigned hearing officer shall be subject to the following schedule of civil
fines.
   (A)   If a citation for a violation of an ordinance is not contested by the
person charged with the violation, the penalties set forth in this division (A)
shall apply.
 
Violation                       First Offense Second Offense All Others
Animals                         $25           $50            $100
Garbage                         $10           $25            $25
Occupational license            $50           $75            $100
Unsafe and unfit structure code $100          $125           $150
Weeds                           $10           $25            $50
 
   (B)   If the citation is contested and a hearing before the Code Enforcement
Board or assigned hearing officer is required, the following maximum penalties
may be imposed at the discretion of the Code Enforcement Board or hearing
officer.
 
Violation                      First Offense Second Offense All Others
Animals                        $100          $200           $300
Building and Construction Code $500          $750           $1,000
Garbage                        $75           $150           $250
Occupational license           $500          $750           $1,000
Weeds                          $50           $75            $100
(Ord. 2016.09.1, passed 9-19-2016)
§ 11.14 LIEN; FINES; CHARGES; FEES.
   (A)   The city shall possess a lien on property owned by the person found by
a nonappealable final order as defined by §
11.01(D) of this chapter, or by a final judgment of the court, to have
committed a violation of a city ordinance. The lien shall be for all civil
fines assessed for the violation and for all charges and fees incurred by the
city in connection with the enforcement of the ordinance, including abatement
costs. An affidavit of the code enforcement officer shall constitute prima
facie evidence of the amount of the lien and regularity of the proceedings
pursuant to KRS 65.8801 to 65.8839.
   (B)   The lien shall be recorded in the office of the County Clerk. The lien
shall be notice to all persons from the time of its recording and shall bear
interest until paid. The lien shall continue for ten years following the date
of the nonappealable final order or final court judgment.
   (C)   Subject to §
11.16 of this chapter, the lien shall take precedence over all other liens,
except state, county, school board, and city taxes, and may be enforced by
judicial proceedings, including a foreclosure action.
   (D)   In addition to the remedy prescribed in division (A) above, the person
found to have committed the violation shall be personally responsible for the
amount of all civil fines assessed for the violation and for all charges, fees,
and abatement costs incurred by the city in connection with the enforcement of
the ordinance, the city may bring a civil action against the person and shall
have the same remedies as provided for the recovery of a debt.
(Ord. 2016.09.1, passed 9-19-2016)
§ 11.15 LIENHOLDER NOTIFICATION SYSTEM.
   The city shall obtain and maintain priority over previously filed liens, as
provided in §
11.14 of this chapter, in accordance with the following provisions.
   (A)   Individuals and entities, including but not limited to lienholders,
may register with the city to receive electronic notification of final orders
entered pursuant to this chapter.
   (B)   In order to receive the notification, the registrant shall submit the
following information to the City Clerk-Treasurer:
      (1)   Name;
      (2)   Mailing address;
      (3)   Phone number; and
      (4)   Electronic mailing address.
   (C)   A registrant may use the electronic form provided on the city website
to submit the information required by division (B) above. It shall be the
responsibility of the registrant to maintain and update the required contact
information with the city. The city shall inform a registrant of any evidence
received that the electronic mailing address is invalid or not functional so
that the registrant may provide an updated electronic mailing address.
   (D)   Once per month, the City Clerk-Treasurer shall send electronic mail
notification of all final orders entered pursuant to this chapter since the
last date of notification to each party registered pursuant to this section.
The notification shall provide an electronic link to the city code enforcement
database located on the city website. The database shall include the following
information regarding each final order:
      (1)   The name of the person charged with a violation;
      (2)   The physical address of the premises where the violation occurred;
      (3)   The last known mailing address for the owner of the premises where
the violation occurred;
      (4)   A copy of the full citation;
      (5)   A copy of the full final order; and
      (6)   The status of the final order regarding its ability to be appealed
pursuant to this chapter.
   (E)   If an appeal is filed on a final order pursuant to this chapter, the
city shall send electronic mail notification to all registrants.
   (F)   Within ten days of the issuance of a final order pursuant to this
chapter, the city shall update its code enforcement database to reflect the
issued final order, and shall post the notification required by division (D)
above containing an updated link to the code enforcement database on the city
website.
   (G)   The city shall maintain the records created under this section for ten
years following their issuance.
(Ord. 2016.09.1, passed 9-19-2016)
§ 11.16 LIENS.
   (A)   A lienholder of record who has registered pursuant to §
11.15(B) of this chapter may, within 45 days from the date of issuance of
notification under §
11.15(D) of this chapter:
      (1)   Correct the violation, if it has not already been abated; or
      (2)   Pay all civil fines assessed for the violation, and all charges and
fees incurred by the city in connection with enforcement of the ordinance,
including abatement costs.
   (B)   Nothing in this section shall prohibit the city from taking immediate
action if necessary under §
11.17 of this chapter.
   (C)   The lien provided by §
11.14 of this chapter shall not take precedence over previously recorded liens
if:
      (1)   The city failed to comply with the requirements of §
11.15 of this chapter for notification of the final order; or
      (2)   A prior lienholder complied with division (A) above.
   (D)   A lien that does not take precedence over previously recorded liens
under division (C) above shall, if the final order remains partially
unsatisfied, fake precedence over all other subsequent liens except liens for
state, county, school board, and city taxes.
   (E)   The city may record a lien before the 45-day period established in
division (A) above expires. If the lien is fully satisfied prior to the
expiration of the 45-day period, the city shall release the lien in the County
Clerk’s office where the lien is recorded within 15 days of satisfaction.
   (F)   Failure of the city to comply with §
11.15 of this chapter and this section, or failure of a lien to take precedence
over previously filed liens as provided in division (C) above, shall not limit
or restrict any other remedies the city has against the property of the
violator.
(Ord. 2016.09.1, passed 9-19-2016)
§ 11.17 IMMEDIATE ACTION.
   Nothing in this chapter shall prohibit the city from taking immediate action
to remedy a violation of its ordinances when there is reason to believe that
the violation presents a serious threat to the public health, safety, and
welfare, or if in the absence of immediate action, the effects of the violation
will be irreparable or irreversible.
(Ord. 2016.09.1, passed 9-19-2016)
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   MAYOR-COUNCIL PLAN
      
31.   CITY OFFICIALS
      
32.   CITY COUNCIL
      
33.   FINANCE AND REVENUE
      
34.   PUBLIC RECORDS
      
35.   PUBLIC MEETINGS
      
36.   DEPARTMENTS, BOARDS, AND COMMISSIONS
      
37.   TAXATION
      
38.   PERSONNEL POLICIES
      
39.   CODE OF ETHICS
      
40.   PLANS AND POLICIES
CHAPTER 30: MAYOR-COUNCIL PLAN
Section
   
30.01   Form of government
   
30.02   Governing officers
§ 30.01 FORM OF GOVERNMENT.
   The form of government provided for this city shall be known as the “Mayor-
Council Plan.”
(KRS 83A.130(1)) (Prior Code, § 30.01)
§ 30.02 GOVERNING OFFICERS.
   (A)   The city shall be governed by an elected executive who shall be called
Mayor and by an elected legislative body which shall be called the City
Council, and by such other officers and employees as are provided for by
statute or city ordinance.
(KRS 83A.130(2))
   (B)   The City Council shall be composed of six members. An ordinance
amending the number of City Council members shall be:
      (1)   Enacted and filed with the county clerk of the county in which the
city is located by no later than the first Wednesday after the first Monday in
November of the year preceding the year in which the legislative offices will
appear on the ballot; and
      (2)   Crafted in such a manner that the amended number of City Council
members becomes effective on January 1 of the year following the election of
the number of City Council members specified in the amending ordinance.
(KRS 83A.030(1))
(Prior Code, § 30.02)
CHAPTER 31: CITY OFFICIALS
Section
General Provisions
   
31.01   Oath; bond
   
31.02   Compensation
   
31.03   Removal from office
Elected Officials
   
31.15   Election procedure
   
31.16   Mayor
   
31.17   Council members
Nonelected City Officials
   
31.30   Establishment of nonelected city offices
   
31.31   City Clerk-Treasurer
City Employees
   
31.45   Police Chief; Assistant Police Chief
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 31.01 OATH; BOND.
   (A)   Oath. Each officer of the city shall, before entering upon the
discharge of duties of his or her office, take the following oath: “I do
solemnly swear (or affirm, as the case may be) that I will support the
Constitution of this Commonwealth, and the Constitution of the United States,
and be faithful and true to the Commonwealth of Kentucky, so long as I continue
a citizen thereof, and that I will faithfully execute, to the best of my
ability, the office of __________, according to law; and I do further solemnly
swear (or affirm) that, since the adoption of the present Constitution, I being
a citizen of this United States, have not fought a duel with deadly weapons
within this State, nor out of it, nor have I sent or accepted a challenge to
fight a duel with deadly weapons, nor have I acted as a second in carrying a
challenge, nor aided or assisted any person thus offending, so help me God”, as
established by § 228 of the Kentucky Constitution.
   (B)   Certification of oath. Certification of the person administering the
oath of office to an elected official shall certify in writing that the oath
was administered and the date of its administration. Said certification shall
be filed in accordance with KRS 62.020.
   (C)   Bond. Official bonds shall, if required, meet the standards of KRS
62.060.
(Prior Code, § 31.01)
§ 31.02 COMPENSATION.
   (A)   City Council shall establish the compensation of every elected city
officer not later than the first Monday in May in the year in which the officer
is elected. An elected officer’s compensation shall not be changed after his or
her election or during his or her term of office.
      (1)   In order to equate the compensation of Mayors and Council members
with the purchasing power of the dollar, the Department for Local Government
computes by the second Friday in February of every year the annual increase or
decrease in the consumer price index of the preceding year by using 1949 as the
base year in accordance with § 246 of the Constitution of Kentucky, which
provides that the Mayor in cities of the first class shall be paid at a rate no
greater than $12,000 per annum and Mayors in cities other than the first class
and Council members shall be paid at a rate no greater than $7,200 per annum.
      (2)   The City Council shall set the compensation of these officers in
accordance with KRS 83A.070 at a rate no greater than that stipulated by the
State Finance and Administration Cabinet.
   (B)   The City Council shall fix the compensation of each appointed city
officer in the ordinance that creates the office and may change it by
ordinance.
   (C)   The City Council shall establish the compensation of city employees in
accordance with the personnel and pay classification plan ordinance of the
city.
   (D)   All fees and commissions authorized by law shall be paid into the city
treasury for the benefit of the city and shall not be retained by any officer
or employee.
(Prior Code, § 31.02)
Statutory reference:
   Compensation, see KRS 83A.070 and 83A.075
§ 31.03 REMOVAL FROM OFFICE.
   (A)   Elected officers. Any elected officer, in case of misconduct,
inability, or willful neglect in the performance of the duties of his or her
office, may be removed from office by an unanimous vote of the members of the
City Council exclusive of any member to be removed, who shall not vote in the
deliberation of his or her removal. No elected officer shall be removed without
having been given the right to a full public hearing. The officer, if removed,
has the right to appeal to the Circuit Court of the county and the appeal shall
be on the record. No officer so removed is eligible to fill the office vacated
before the expiration of the term to which originally elected.
   (B)   Nonelected officers. Nonelected city officers may be removed by the
Mayor at will, unless otherwise provided by state law or ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 31.03)
Statutory reference:
   Removal of elected officers, see KRS 83A.040(9)
   Removal of nonelected officers, see KRS 83A.080(2)
ELECTED OFFICIALS
§ 31.15 ELECTION PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Election of city officers shall be provided in KRS Chapter 83A.
   (B)   The city hereby elects to forego the conduct of a primary election for
a nomination of candidates to city elective office, as provided in KRS 83A.045.
   (C)   All candidates for city elective offices shall file their nomination
papers with the County Clerk no later than the first Tuesday in August
preceding the day fixed by KRS Chapter 118 for holding the regular election.
   (D)   The city may change the manner of election of city officers within the
provisions of division (A) above by ordinance, except that no change shall be
made earlier than five years from the last change.
   (E)   The city shall pay the costs of city elections only if city elections
are held at a time other than prescribed by law for elections generally.
   (F)   Each appointed and elected city office existing on July 15, 1980,
shall continue until abolished by ordinance, except that the offices of Mayor
and City Council members may not be abolished.
   (G)   No abolition of any elected office shall take effect until expiration
of the term of the current holder of the office.
   (H)   No ordinance abolishing any elected office shall be enacted later than
240 days preceding the regular election for that office, except in the event of
a vacancy in the office.
   (I)   The city may not create any elected office. Existing elected offices
may be continued under provision of divisions (D), (E), and (F) above, but no
existing elected office may be changed.
(Prior Code, § 31.20) (Ord. 31.10, passed 8-22-1988)
Statutory reference:
   Creation and abolishment of city offices, see KRS 83A.080(3),(4)
   Election of city officers, see KRS 83A.050
   Election to fill unexpired term of city offices, see KRS 83A.165
§ 31.16 MAYOR.
   (A)   Election; term of office. The Mayor shall be elected by the voters of
the city at a regular election. A candidate for Mayor shall be a resident of
the city for not less than one year prior to his or her election. His or her
term of office shall begin on the first day of January following his or her
election and shall be for four years and until his or her successor qualifies.
If a person is elected or appointed as Mayor in response to a vacancy and
serves less than four calendar years, then that period of service shall not be
considered for purposes of re-election a term of office.
   (B)   Qualifications. The Mayor shall be at least 21 years of age, shall be
a qualified voter in the city, and shall reside in the city throughout his or
her term of office.
   (C)   Vacancy.
      (1)   If a vacancy occurs in the office of Mayor, the following
provisions shall apply:
         (a)   The City Council shall fill the vacancy within 30 days;
         (b)   A City Council member shall not vote for himself or herself; and
         (c)   The City Council shall elect from among its members an
individual to preside over meetings of the City Council during any vacancy in
the office of Mayor in accordance with the provisions of KRS 83A.130 to
83A.150.
      (2)   If for any reason, any vacancy in the office of Mayor is not filled
within thirty (30) days after it occurs, the Governor shall promptly fill the
vacancy by appointment of a qualified person who shall serve for the same
period as if otherwise appointed.
(KRS 83A.040(1),(2),(6))
      (3)   When voting to fill a vacancy created by the resignation of the
Mayor, the resigning Mayor shall not vote on his or her successor.
(KRS 83A.040(3))
      (4)   No vacancy by reason of a voluntary resignation in the office of
the Mayor shall occur unless a written resignation which specifies the
resignation date is tendered to the City Council. The resignation may be
submitted through electronic mail if it originates from the Mayor’s electronic
mail address and includes also the Mayor’s handwritten signature. The
resignation shall be effective at the next regular or special meeting of the
City Council occurring on or after the date specified in the written letter of
resignation. If a resignation date is not specified, the written resignation
shall be deemed to become effective at the first regular or special meeting of
the City Council occurring on or after its receipt.
(KRS 83A.040(7))
      (5)   If a vacancy occurs in the office of Mayor which is required by law
to be filled temporarily by appointment, the City Council shall immediately
notify in writing both the County Clerk and the Secretary of State of the
vacancy.
(KRS 83A.040(8))
   (D)   Powers and duties.
      (1)   The executive authority of the city is hereby vested in and shall
be exercised by the Mayor. The Mayor shall enforce the Mayor-Council plan, city
ordinances and orders, and all applicable statutes. He or she shall supervise
all departments of city government and the conduct of all city officers and
employees under his or her jurisdiction and require each department to make
reports to him or her as required by ordinance or as he or she deems desirable.
      (2)   The Mayor shall maintain liaison with related units of local
government respecting interlocal contracting and joint activities.
      (3)   The Mayor shall report to the Council and to the public on the
condition and needs of city government as he or she finds appropriate or as
required by ordinance, but not less than annually. He or she shall make any
recommendations for actions by the Council he or she finds in the public
interest.
(KRS 83A.130(3))
      (4)   Subject to disapproval of the Council, the Mayor shall promulgate
procedures to ensure orderly administration of the functions of city government
and compliance with statutes or ordinances. Upon promulgation or upon revision
or rescission of the procedures, copies shall be filed with the person
responsible for maintaining city records.
(KRS 83A.130(4))
      (5)   Any delegation of the Mayor’s power, duties, or responsibilities to
subordinate officers and employees and any expression of his or her official
authority to fulfill executive functions shall be made by executive order.
Executive orders shall be sequentially numbered by years and kept in a
permanent file.
(KRS 83A.130(7))
      (6)   All bonds, notes, contracts, and written obligations of the city
shall be made and executed by the Mayor or his or her agent designated by
executive order.
(KRS 83A.130(8))
      (7)   The Mayor shall be the appointing authority with power to appoint
and remove all city employees, including police officers, except as tenure and
terms of employment are protected by statute, ordinance, or contract and except
for employees of the Council.
(KRS 83A.130(9))
      (8)   The Mayor shall provide for the orderly continuation of the
functions of city government at any time he or she is unable to attend to the
duties of his or her office by delegating responsibility for any function to be
performed, in accordance with division (D)(5) above. However, the Mayor may not
delegate the responsibility of presiding at meetings of the Council, and the
authority to approve ordinances or promulgate administrative procedures may
only be delegated to an elected officer. With approval of the Council, the
Mayor may rescind any action taken in his or her absence under this section
within 30 days of such action. If for any reason the disability of the Mayor to
attend to his or her duties persists for 60 consecutive days, the office of
Mayor may be declared vacant by a majority vote of the Council and the
provisions of division (C) above shall apply.
(KRS 83A.130(10))
(Prior Code, § 31.21)
§ 31.17 COUNCIL MEMBERS.
   For provisions concerning City Council, see
Chapter 32.
(Prior Code, § 31.22)
NONELECTED CITY OFFICIALS
§ 31.30 ESTABLISHMENT OF NONELECTED CITY OFFICES.
   (A)   All nonelected city offices shall be created by ordinance which shall
specify:
      (1)   Title of office;
      (2)   Powers and duties of office;
      (3)   Oath of office;
      (4)   Bond, if required; and
      (5)   Compensation.
   (B)   With the exception of the Police Chief and all city police officers,
all nonelected city officers shall be appointed by the Mayor with approval of
City Council. The Police Chief and all city police officers shall be appointed
by the Mayor at will and such appointments need not be approved by City
Council.
   (C)   All nonelected officers may be removed by the Mayor at will unless
otherwise provided by statute or ordinance.
   (D)   The following are nonelected city offices: City Clerk-Treasurer.
(Prior Code, § 31.35)
Statutory reference:
   Nonelected city offices, see KRS 83A.080(1),(2)statutory
§ 31.31 CITY CLERK-TREASURER.
   (A)   The city hereby establishes the office of the City Clerk-Treasurer.
   (B)   The office of City Clerk is hereby combined with the office of City
Treasurer.
   (C)   The duties and responsibilities of the City Clerk-Treasurer shall
include, but are not limited to the following:
      (1)   The City Clerk-Treasurer shall act as Secretary for the City
Council, and attend all regular and special meetings of the City Council. The
City Clerk-Treasurer shall record, keep, and maintain all minutes of all
regular and special meetings of the Council. He or she shall ensure that every
action of the City Council is made a part of the permanent records of the city,
and upon passage of an ordinance, the vote of each member of the City Council
shall be entered on the official record of the meeting. It shall be the
responsibility of the City Clerk-Treasurer to maintain and safe keep the
permanent records of the city and index all ordinances adopted by the city at
the end of each month in accordance with KRS 83A.060. The City Clerk-Treasurer
shall cause all ordinances to be published as required by law. The City Clerk-
Treasurer is under the direct supervision of the Mayor and is responsible for
the overall financial management of the city.
      (2)   The City Clerk-Treasurer shall prepare and publish an itemized
financial statement as required by KRS 424.220 and shall make a monthly
statement in writing showing the receipts and expenditures of the city for the
preceding month and the amount remaining in the treasury. The City Clerk-
Treasurer shall pay all bills and accounts payable of the city after the Mayor
has approved payment; shall be responsible for the collection of all taxes,
license fees, and accounts receivable of the city; shall receive, record, and
forward all complaints or requests for city services; and shall initiate
correspondence on behalf of the city.
      (3)   The City Clerk-Treasurer shall perform the duties required of the
“official custodian” or “custodian” in accordance with KRS 61.870 through
61.882; and possess the seal of the city, if used. (KRS 83A.085statutory)
      (4)   No later than January 31 of each year, mail to the Governor’s
Office for Local Development a list containing current city information
including, but not limited to, the following:
         (a)   The correct name of the Mayor, legislative body members, and the
following appointed officials who are serving as of January 1 of each year:
            1.   City Clerk-Treasurer;
            2.   City Manager;
            3.   City Attorney;
            4.   Finance Director;
            5.   Police Chief;
            6.   Fire Chief; and
            7.   Public Works Director.
         (b)   The correct name of the city, mailing address for City Hall, and
telephone number of City Hall; and
         (c)   The name and telephone number of either an elected or appointed
official to serve as a contact person that may be reached during normal
business hours of 8:00 a.m. to 4:30 p.m.
      (5)   The City Clerk-Treasurer shall carry out all further additional
duties or functions lawfully delegated by statute or by appropriate order of
the Mayor or ordinance of City Council and necessary for the proper operation
and functioning of the city.
   (D)   Compensation shall be in the amount as established by the City Council
from time to time as set forth in §
31.02 of this chapter.
   (E)   No person shall be appointed or act as the City Clerk-Treasurer unless
such person has taken the oath required by § 228 of the Constitution of the
Commonwealth of Kentucky and has provided bond, if required, with corporate
surety authorized to transact business in Kentucky and conditioned upon the
performance of the duties specified herein.
(KRS 83A.085)
(Prior Code, § 31.36)
CITY EMPLOYEES
§ 31.45 POLICE CHIEF; ASSISTANT POLICE CHIEF.
   For provisions concerning the Police Chief and the Assistant Police Chief,
see §
36.003 of this title.
(Prior Code, § 31.50)
CHAPTER 32: CITY COUNCIL
Section
General Provisions
   
32.01   Members; election, qualifications, and compensation
   
32.02   Vacancies
   
32.03   Powers and duties
Rules of Procedure
   
32.20   Mayor as presiding officer
   
32.21   Meetings
   
32.22   Quorum
   
32.23   Rules of Council procedure
Ordinances
   
32.35   One subject; title
   
32.36   Introduction; enacting clause
   
32.37   Form of amendment
   
32.38   Reading requirement; exception for emergency
   
32.39   Approval and disapproval by Mayor
   
32.40   Adoption of standard codes by reference
   
32.41   Official city records
   
32.42   Indexing and maintenance requirements
   
32.43   Publication requirements
   
32.44   Additional requirements for adoption may be established by city
   
32.45   Periodic review required
   
32.46   Municipal orders
   
32.47   Proved by Clerk-Treasurer; received in evidence
   
32.48   Legislative immunity
 
   
32.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 32.01 MEMBERS; ELECTION, QUALIFICATIONS, AND COMPENSATION.
   (A)   Election; term of office. Each Council member shall be elected at-
large by the voters of the city at a regular election. A candidate for Council
member shall be a resident of the city for not less than one year prior to his
or her election. Terms of office begin on January 1 following the election and
shall be for two years, except as provided by KRS 83A.050.
   (B)   Qualifications. A member shall be at least 18 years of age, shall be a
qualified voter in the city, and shall reside in the city throughout his or her
term of office.
(KRS 83A.040(4))
   (C)   Compensation. For provisions concerning compensation, see §
31.02 of this title.
(Prior Code, § 32.01)
§ 32.02 VACANCIES.
   (A)   Vacancies. If one or more vacancies on Council occur in a way that one
or more members remain seated, the remaining members shall within 30 days fill
the vacancies one at a time, giving each new appointee reasonable notice of his
or her selection as will enable him or her to meet and act with the remaining
members in making further appointments until all vacancies are filled. If
vacancies occur in a way that all seats become vacant, the Governor shall
appoint qualified persons to fill the vacancies sufficient to constitute a
quorum. Remaining vacancies are filled as provided in this section.
      (1)   No vacancy by reason of a voluntary resignation of a member of the
City Council shall occur unless a written resignation which specifies a
resignation date is tendered to the City Council. The resignation may be
submitted through electronic mail if it originates from the Council member’s
electronic mail address and includes also the Council member’s handwritten
signature. The resignation shall be effective at the next regular or special
meeting of the City Council occurring on or after the date specified in the
written letter of resignation. If a resignation date is not specified, the
written resignation shall be deemed to become effective at the first regular or
special meeting of the City Council occurring on or after its receipt.
(KRS 83A.040(7))
      (2)   If a vacancy occurs on the City Council which is required by law to
be filled temporarily by appointment, the City Council shall immediately notify
in writing both the County Clerk and the Secretary of State of the vacancy.
(KRS 83A.040(8))
   (B)   Failure to fill vacancies. If for any reason, any vacancy on Council
is not filled within 30 days after it occurs, the Governor shall promptly fill
the vacancy by appointment of a qualified person who shall serve for the same
period as if otherwise appointed.
(KRS 83A.040(6))
(Prior Code, § 32.02)
Statutory reference:
   Filling of vacancies for nonpartisan city office, see KRS Chapter 83A
§ 32.03 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   The legislative authority of the city is hereby vested in and shall be
exercised by the elected City Council. The Council may not perform any
executive functions except those functions assigned to it by statute.
(KRS 83A.130(11))
   (B)   The Council shall establish all appointive offices and the duties and
responsibilities of those offices and codes, rules, and regulations for the
public health, safety, and welfare.
(KRS 83A.130(12))
   (C)   The Council shall provide, by ordinance, for sufficient revenue to
operate city government and shall appropriate the funds of the city in a budget
which provides for the orderly management of city resources.
(KRS 83A.130(12))
   (D)   The Council may investigate all activities of city government. The
Council may require any city officer or employee to prepare and submit to it
sworn statements regarding the performance of his or her official duties. Any
statement required by the Council to be submitted or any investigation
undertaken by the Council, if any office, department, or agency under the
jurisdiction of the Mayor is involved, shall not be submitted or undertaken
unless and until written notice of the Council’s action is given to the Mayor.
The Mayor may review any statement before submission to the Council and to
appear personally or through his or her designee on behalf of any department,
office, or agency in the course of any investigation.
(KRS 83A.130(13))
(Prior Code, § 32.03)
RULES OF PROCEDURE
§ 32.20 MAYOR AS PRESIDING OFFICER.
   (A)   The Mayor shall preside at meetings of the Council. The Council has
the authority to establish, by ordinance, the manner in which one of its number
may be selected to preside at meetings of the Council in the absence of the
Mayor.
   (B)   The Mayor may participate in Council proceedings, but shall not have a
vote, except that he or she may cast the deciding vote in case of a tie.
(KRS 83A.130(5)) (Prior Code, § 32.20)
Cross-reference:
   Further provisions concerning the presiding officer of Council, see §
32.23(A),(B), and (J)
   Selection of Council member as presiding officer when office of Mayor is
vacant, see §
31.16
§ 32.21 MEETINGS.
   (A)   Regular meetings of the City Council shall be held on the third Monday
of each month, at 6:30 p.m., Central Time, at City Hall, 212 West Main Street,
Cloverport, Kentucky.
   (B)   Special meetings of the Council may be called by the Mayor or upon
written request of a majority of the Council. In the call, the Mayor or Council
shall designate the purpose, time, and place of the special meeting with
sufficient notice for the attendance of Council members and for compliance with
KRS Chapter 61.
   (C)   At a special meeting, no business may be considered other than that
set forth in the designation of purpose.
   (D)   The minutes of every meeting shall be signed by the City Clerk-
Treasurer, and by the officer presiding at the meeting as set forth in §
32.20 of this subchapter.
   (E)   Each City Council member shall only receive their regular monthly
compensation for a particular month if they attend the regular City Council
meeting for that month.
(KRS 83A.130(11)) (Prior Code, § 32.21) (Ord. 95.5-1, passed 5-15-1995; Ord.
97-3.1, passed 3-24-1997; Ord. 99-1.01, passed 2-22-1999; Ord. 2011.03-01,
passed 3-21-2011; Ord. 2013.06-01, passed 6-20-2013; Ord. 2015-06.02, passed 6-
19-2015; Ord. 2018.08.04, passed 8-27-2018; Ord. 2021.01.01, passed 1-18-2021;
Ord. 2023.07.06, passed 7-17-2023)
Cross-reference:
   Public meetings, see
Chapter 35
§ 32.22 QUORUM.
   Unless otherwise provided by statute, a majority of the Council constitutes
a quorum and a vote of a majority of a quorum is sufficient to take action.
(KRS 83A.060(6)) (Prior Code, § 32.22)
§ 32.23 RULES OF COUNCIL PROCEDURE.
   The rules of Council procedure are as set forth as follows.
   (A)   The Mayor shall preside at all Council meetings, but vote only in case
of a tie. If, for any cause, the Mayor is absent and does not preside and a
member of the Council is presiding, that member shall have the right to vote,
but in case of a tie vote, the question shall be lost.
   (B)   At the first meeting of each Council, the members shall elect one of
their number to act as the presiding officer in the event of the absence of the
Mayor at subsequent meetings.
   (C)   In case of the absence of the City Clerk-Treasurer, the Mayor or the
presiding officer shall appoint one of the members of the Council as Clerk-
Treasurer Pro Tem. The member so appointed as Clerk-Treasurer Pro Tem shall
have the right to vote on all questions, and shall serve as Clerk-Treasurer Pro
Tem only for the particular meeting at which he or she was so appointed.
   (D)   At all meetings of the Council, the order of procedure shall be as
follows:
      (1)   Roll call of members;
      (2)   Reading of records and proceedings of the previous meeting. When
the records and proceedings have been corrected and approved by the Council,
they shall be signed by the Mayor;
      (3)   Reports of various officers shall be submitted, accepted by vote of
the Council, and filed with the City Clerk-Treasurer;
      (4)   The Mayor shall communicate to the Council anything he or she may
deem of interest to the city;
      (5)   Reports of standing and special committees shall be submitted;
      (6)   Petitions, grievances, and remonstrances, as called for by the City
Clerk-Treasurer, shall be submitted;
      (7)   Presentation of accounts;
      (8)   Motions;
      (9)   New business and communications; and
      (10)   Unfinished business.
   (E)   When a Council member, in presenting a motion, petition, or other
matter, or in addressing the Mayor, is called to order, he or she shall
immediately cease his or her presentation or address until it is decided
whether he or she is in order or not, and if it is decided that he or she is in
order, he or she shall be permitted to proceed.
   (F)   No Council member shall be permitted to speak irrelevantly to the
question before the Council.
   (G)   Every motion shall be seconded by a member of the Council before a
vote shall be taken thereon. All votes, except votes on the passage of an
ordinance, shall be via voice. Upon the request of any Council member, the yeas
and nays shall be taken and recorded by the City Clerk-Treasurer on any motion.
All votes on the passage of an ordinance shall be taken by a call of the roll.
   (H)   When a motion or other proposition is under consideration, no motion
shall be entertained, except to adjourn; to lay on the table; to commit; one to
postpone; to amend; and a motion for the previous question. A motion to adjourn
shall always be in order and be put without debate. No proposition shall, under
color of an amendment, be admitted which totally changes the subject matter
under consideration. A motion for the previous question being made and
seconded, the question shall be put without debate, and if the motion prevails,
the main question shall be admitted after a call of the previous question,
unless it is decided negatively.
   (I)   In the event any question of Council procedure shall arise which
cannot be determined by the provisions of this section or other city ordinance,
then such question shall be determined by Robert’s Rules of Order, an accepted
manual of parliamentary law.
   (J)   The presiding officer shall keep order at all Council meetings.
(Prior Code, § 32.23) (Ord. 120.2, passed 5-3-1954) Penalty, see §
32.99
Cross-reference:
   Public meetings, see
Chapter 35
ORDINANCES
§ 32.35 ONE SUBJECT; TITLE.
   Each ordinance shall embrace but one subject and shall have a title which
clearly states the subject.
(KRS 83A.060(1)) (Prior Code, § 32.35)
§ 32.36 INTRODUCTION; ENACTING CLAUSE.
   Each ordinance shall be introduced in writing and shall have an enacting
clause styled “Be it ordained by the City of Cloverport, Kentucky.”
(KRS 83A.060(2)) (Prior Code, § 32.36)
§ 32.37 FORM OF AMENDMENT.
   No ordinance shall be amended by reference to its title only, and ordinances
to amend shall set out in full the amended ordinance or section indicating any
words being added by a single solid line drawn underneath them, and any words
being deleted by a single broken line drawn through them.
(KRS 83A.060(3)) (Prior Code, § 32.37)
§ 32.38 READING REQUIREMENT; EXCEPTION FOR EMERGENCY.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (B) below, no ordinance shall be
enacted until it has been read on two separate days. The reading of an
ordinance may be satisfied by stating the title and reading a summary rather
than the full text.
   (B)   In an emergency, upon the affirmative vote of two-thirds of the
membership, the Council may suspend the requirements of second reading and
publication to provide for an ordinance to become effective by naming and
describing the emergency in the ordinance. Publication requirements of §
32.43 of this subchapter shall be complied with within ten days of the
enactment of the emergency ordinance.
(KRS 83A.060(4),(7)) (Prior Code, § 32.38)
§ 32.39 APPROVAL AND DISAPPROVAL BY MAYOR.
   (A)   All ordinances adopted by the Council shall be submitted to the Mayor
who, within ten days after submission, shall either approve the ordinance by
affixing his or her signature or disapprove it by returning it to the Council
together with a statement of his or her objections.
   (B)   No ordinance shall take effect without the Mayor’s approval unless he
or she fails to return it to the legislative body within ten days after
receiving it or unless the Council votes to override the Mayor’s veto, upon
reconsideration of the ordinance not later than the second regular meeting
following its return, by the affirmative vote of one more than a majority of
the membership.
(KRS 83A.130(6)) (Prior Code, § 32.39)
 
§ 32.40 ADOPTION OF STANDARD CODES BY REFERENCE.
   The Council may adopt the provisions of any local, state-wide, or nationally
recognized standard code and codification of entire bodies of local legislation
by an ordinance which identifies the subject matter by title, source, and date
and incorporates the adopted provisions by reference without setting them out
in full, provided a copy accompanies the adopting ordinance and is made a part
of the permanent records of the city.
(KRS 83A.060(5)) (Prior Code, § 32.40)
§ 32.41 OFFICIAL CITY RECORDS.
   (A)   Every action of the Council is hereby made a part of the permanent
records of the city and on passage of an ordinance, the vote of each member of
the Council shall be entered on the official record of the meeting.
   (B)   The Council has provided, under the provisions of §
31.31(C) of this title and §
32.42 of this subchapter, for the maintenance and safekeeping of the permanent
records of the city. The City Clerk- Treasurer and the presiding officer shall
sign the official record of each meeting.
(KRS 83A.060(8)) (Prior Code, § 32.41)
§ 32.42 INDEXING AND MAINTENANCE REQUIREMENTS.
   At the end of each month, all ordinances adopted in the city shall be
indexed and maintained by the City Clerk-Treasurer in the following manner:
   (A)   The city budget, appropriations of money, and tax levies shall be
maintained and indexed so that each fiscal year is kept separate from other
years; and
   (B)   All other city ordinances shall be kept in the minute book or an
ordinance book in the order adopted and maintained in this code of ordinances.
(KRS 83A.060(8)) (Prior Code, § 32.42)
§ 32.43 PUBLICATION REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Except as provided in §
32.38(B) of this subchapter, no ordinance shall be effective until published
pursuant to KRS Chapter 424.
   (B)   The publication requirements for ordinances, including all bond and
zoning ordinances, may be satisfied by publication in full or in summary as
designated by Council.
   (C)   The requirements for summary publication may be satisfied by
publication of the title, a brief narrative setting forth the main points of
the ordinance in a way reasonably calculated to inform the public in a clear
and understandable manner of the meaning of the ordinance, and the full text of
each section that imposes taxes or fees prepared or certified by an attorney
licensed to practice law in the state.
   (D)   Ordinances that include descriptions of real property may include a
sketch, drawing, or map, including common landmarks, such as streets or roads
in lieu of metes and bounds descriptions.
(KRS 83A.060(9)) (Prior Code, § 32.43)
§ 32.44 ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENTS FOR ADOPTION MAY BE ESTABLISHED BY CITY.
   The city may specify, by ordinance, additional requirements for adoption of
ordinances in greater detail than contained herein, but the city may not lessen
or reduce the substantial requirements of this chapter or any statute relating
to adoption of ordinances.
(KRS 83A.060(10)) (Prior Code, § 32.44)
§ 32.45 PERIODIC REVIEW REQUIRED.
   At least once every five years, all ordinances in this code of ordinances
shall be examined for consistency with state law and with one another and shall
be revised to eliminate redundant, obsolete, inconsistent, and invalid
provisions.
(KRS 83A.060(11)) (Prior Code, § 32.45)
§ 32.46 MUNICIPAL ORDERS.
   (A)   Council may adopt municipal orders. All municipal orders shall be in
writing and shall be adopted only at an official meeting. Orders may be amended
only by a subsequent municipal order or ordinance. All orders adopted shall be
maintained in an official order book.
   (B)   In lieu of an ordinance, municipal orders may be used for matters
relating to the internal operation and functions of the city and to appoint or
remove or approve appointment or removal of members of boards, commissions, and
other agencies over which the Council has control.
(KRS 83A.060(12),(13)) (Prior Code, § 32.46)
§ 32.47 PROVED BY CLERK-TREASURER; RECEIVED IN EVIDENCE.
   All ordinances and orders of the city may be proved by the signature of the
City Clerk-Treasurer; and when the ordinances are placed in this code of
ordinances by authority of the city, the printed copy shall be received in
evidence by any state court without further proof of the ordinances.
(KRS 83A.060(14)) (Prior Code, § 32.47)
§ 32.48 LEGISLATIVE IMMUNITY.
   For anything said in debate, Council members shall be entitled to the same
immunities and protections allowed to members of the General Assembly.
(KRS 83A.060(15)) (Prior Code, § 32.48)
Statutory reference:
   Privileges of members of General Assembly, see KRS 6.050 and Ky. Const. § 43
§ 32.99 PENALTY.
   Any person found guilty of disorderly conduct as set forth in §
32.23, as defined in KRS 525.060, shall be subject to a fine in any amount not
exceeding $250, imprisonment for not more than 90 days, or both.
(Prior Code, § 32.23) (Ord. 120.2, passed 5-3-1954)
CHAPTER 33: FINANCE AND REVENUE
Section
Financial Administration
   
33.01   Definitions
   
33.02   Accounting records and financial reports
   
33.03   Annual budget ordinance; standards of form and detail for preparation
of annual proposed budget
   
33.04   Annual audit of city funds
   
33.05   Official depositories; disbursement of city funds
Improvements
   
33.15   Definitions
   
33.16   Financing of improvements
   
33.17   Apportionment of cost
   
33.18   Comprehensive report required
   
33.19   Public hearing required
   
33.20   Adoption of ordinance; notice to affected owners
   
33.21   Affected owner may contest
   
33.22   When city may proceed; assessment constitutes lien
   
33.23   Effect of additional property or change in financing
Small Purchases Procedure Code
   
33.35   Adoption
   
33.36   Administration
   
33.37   Purchase procedures
   
33.38   Selection of vendors
FINANCIAL ADMINISTRATION
§ 33.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUDGET. A proposed plan for raising and spending money for specified
programs, functions, activities, or objectives during a fiscal year.
   DEBT SERVICE. The sum of money required to pay installments of principal and
interest on bonds, notes, and other evidences of debt accruing within a fiscal
year and to maintain sinking funds.
   ENCUMBRANCES. Obligations in the form of purchase orders or contracts that
are chargeable to an appropriation. An obligation ceases to be an ENCUMBRANCE
when paid or when the actual liability is recorded.
   FISCAL YEAR. The accounting period for the administration of fiscal
operations.
   GENERALLY ACCEPTED GOVERNMENTAL AUDITING STANDARDS. Those standards for
audit of governmental organizations, programs, activities, and functions issued
by the Comptroller General of the United States.
(KRS 91A.010(6))
   GENERALLY ACCEPTED PRINCIPLES OF GOVERNMENTAL ACCOUNTING. Those standards
and procedures promulgated and recognized by the Governmental Accounting
Standards Board.
(KRS 91A.010(7)) (Prior Code, § 33.01)
§ 33.02 ACCOUNTING RECORDS AND FINANCIAL REPORTS.
   The city shall keep its accounting records and render financial reports in
such a way as to:
   (A)   Determine compliance with statutory provisions; and
   (B)   Determine fairly and with full disclosure the financial operations of
constituent funds and account groups of the city in conformity with generally
accepted governmental accounting principles.
(KRS 91A.020) (Prior Code, § 33.02)
§ 33.03 ANNUAL BUDGET ORDINANCE; STANDARDS OF FORM AND DETAIL FOR PREPARATION
OF ANNUAL PROPOSED BUDGET.
   (A)   (1)   The city shall operate under an annual budget ordinance adopted
and administered in accordance with the provisions of this section. No moneys
shall be expended from any governmental or proprietary fund except in
accordance with a budget ordinance adopted pursuant to this section.
      (2)   Moneys held by the city as a trustee or agent for individuals,
private organizations, or other governmental units need not be included in the
budget ordinance.
      (3)   If in any fiscal year subsequent to a fiscal year in which the city
has adopted a budget ordinance in accordance with this section, no budget
ordinance is adopted, the budget ordinance of the previous fiscal year has full
force and effect as if readopted.
      (4)   The budget ordinance of the city shall cover one fiscal year.
      (5)   Preparation of the budget proposal shall be the responsibility of
the Mayor.
      (6)   The budget proposal shall be prepared in such form and detail as
prescribed under division (B) below.
      (7)   The budget proposal together with a budget message shall be
submitted to Council not later than 30 days prior to the beginning of the
fiscal year it covers. The budget message shall contain an explanation of the
governmental goals fixed by the budget for the coming fiscal year; explain
important features of the activities anticipated in the budget; set forth the
reasons for stated changes from the previous year in program goals, programs,
and appropriation levels; and explain any major changes in fiscal policy.
      (8)   Council may adopt the budget ordinance making appropriations for
the fiscal year in such sums as it finds sufficient and proper, whether greater
or less than the sums recommended in the budget proposal. The budget ordinance
may take any form that Council finds most efficient in enabling it to make the
necessary fiscal policy decisions. No budget ordinance shall be adopted which
provides for appropriations to exceed revenues in any one fiscal year in
violation of § 157 of the Kentucky Constitution.
      (9)   The full amount estimated to be required for debt service during
the budget year shall be appropriated for all governmental fund types.
      (10)   Council may amend the budget ordinance at any time after the
ordinance’s adoption, if the amended ordinance continues to satisfy the
requirements of this section.
      (11)   Administration and implementation of an adopted budget ordinance
shall be the responsibility of the Mayor. That responsibility includes the
preparation and submission to Council of operating statements, including
budgetary comparisons of each governmental fund for which an annual budget has
been adopted. These reports shall be submitted not less than once every three
months in each fiscal year.
      (12)   To the extent practical, the system utilized in the administration
and implementation of the adopted budget ordinance shall be consistent in form
with the accounting system called for in §
33.02 of this subchapter.
      (13)   No city agency, or member, director, officer, or employee of a
city agency may bind the city in any way to any extent beyond the amount of
money at that time appropriated for the purpose of the agency. All contracts,
agreements, and obligations, expressed or implied, beyond any existing
appropriations are void; nor shall any city officer issue any bond,
certificate, or warrant for the payment of money by the city in any way to an
extent, beyond the balance of any appropriation made for the purpose.
(KRS 91A.030)
   (B)   This division (B) sets forth the method and procedures to be used in
the formulation of the annual budget proposal and the form and standards for
its preparation.
      (1)   The following standards shall apply to the form and detail in which
the annual budget proposal of the city is to be prepared.
      (2)   The annual budget proposal shall detail the raising of revenue from
all sources, including grants and transfers, and the spending of money for
specified programs, functions, activities, or objectives of the city for the
budget year. The total of anticipated revenues shall equal or exceed the total
of proposed expenditures.
      (3)   The form of the annual budget proposal shall be consistent in form,
to the extent practical, with the accounting system of the city.
      (4)   The annual budget proposal shall provide a complete program and
financial plan for all funds for the budget year. It shall contain:
         (a)   A budget message, as specified in KRS 91A.030; and
         (b)   A budget summary, as specified in division (B)(5) below,
supported by an estimate of all anticipated revenues of the city compared to
previous years, as specified in division (B)(6) below; proposed expenditures
compared to previous years as specified in division (B)(7) below; and an
estimate of anticipated transfers, as specified in division (B)(8) below.
      (5)   At the head of the annual budget proposal, there shall appear a
summary of the budget, which need not be itemized further than by principal
sources of anticipated revenue and proposed expenditures by program, function,
activity, or objectives of the city, in such a manner as to present a simple
and clear summary of the detailed estimates of the budget components.
      (6)   In parallel columns opposite the several items of anticipated
revenue, there shall be placed:
         (a)   The amount of each such item actually received during the next
preceding fiscal year;
         (b)   The total of the amount of each item actually received to the
time of preparation of the annual budget proposal, plus anticipated receipts
for the remainder of the current fiscal year estimated as accurately as
possible; and
         (c)   The amount of each item anticipated to be received during the
budget year, estimated as accurately as possible.
      (7)   In parallel columns opposite the several items of proposed
expenditures, there shall be placed:
         (a)   The amount of each such item actually expended during the next
preceding fiscal year;
         (b)   The total of the amount actually expended to the time of
preparation of the annual budget proposal, plus the expenditures for the
remainder of the current fiscal year estimated as accurately as possible; and
         (c)   The amount of each item to be appropriated for the budget year.
      (8)   Any anticipated excess revenues, if legally available for general
purposes and to the extent such excess is to be used to support other funds,
shall be stated as a transfer item in the annual budget proposal.
(Prior Code, § 33.03) (Ord. 240.1, passed 6-8-1981; Ord. 240.1a, passed 6-8-
1981)
§ 33.04 ANNUAL AUDIT OF CITY FUNDS.
   (A)   The city, except as provided in division (J) below, shall after the
close of each fiscal year, cause each fund of the city to be audited by the
Auditor of Public Accounts or a certified public accountant. The audit shall be
completed by March 1 immediately following the fiscal year being audited. The
city shall forward an electronic copy of the audit report to the Department for
Local Government for information purposes by no later than April 1 immediately
following the fiscal year being audited.
(KRS 91A.040(1))
   (B)   The city shall enter into a written contract with the selected
auditor. The contract shall set forth all terms and conditions of the agreement
which shall include, but not be limited to, requirements that:
      (1)   The auditor be employed to examine the basic financial statements
which shall include the government-wide and fund financial statements;
      (2)   All audit information be prepared in accordance with generally
accepted governmental auditing standards which includes such tests of the
accounting records and such auditing procedures as considered necessary under
the circumstances. Where the audit is to cover the use of state or federal
funds, appropriate state or federal guidelines shall be utilized;
(KRS 91A.040(7)(a),(b))
      (3)   The auditor prepare a typewritten or printed report embodying the
general purpose financial statements and his or her opinion and statements
related thereto;
      (4)   The auditor prepare a typewritten or printed report embodying:
         (a)   The basic financial statements and accompanying supplemental and
required supplemental information;
         (b)   The auditor’s opinion on the basic financial statements or
reasons why an opinion cannot be expressed; and
         (c)   Findings required to be reported as a result of the audit.
      (5)   The completed audit and all accompanying documentation shall be
presented to the City Council at a regular or special meeting; and
      (6)   Any contract with a certified public accountant for an audit shall
require the accountant to forward a copy of the audit report and management
letters to the Auditor of Public Accounts upon request of the city or the
Auditor of Public Accounts, and the Auditor of Public Accounts shall have the
right to review the certified accountant’s work papers upon request.
(KRS 91A.040(7)(d))
   (C)   A copy of an audit report which meets the requirements of this section
shall be considered satisfactory and final in meeting any official request to
the city for financial data, except for statutory or judicial requirements, or
requirements of the Legislative Research Commission necessary to carry out the
purposes of KRS 6.955 to 6.975.
(KRS 91A.040(8))
   (D)   The city shall, within 30 days after the presentation of an audit to
the city legislative body, publish an advertisement, in accordance with KRS
Chapter 424, containing:
      (1)   The auditor’s opinion letter;
      (2)   The “Budgetary Comparison Schedules-Major Funds,” which shall
include the General Fund and all major funds;
      (3)   A statement that a copy of the complete audit report, including
financial statements and supplemental information, is on file at City Hall and
is available for public inspection during normal business hours;
      (4)   A statement that any citizen may obtain from City Hall a copy of
the complete audit report, including financial statements and supplemental
information, for his or her personal use;
      (5)   A statement which notifies citizens requesting a personal copy of
the city audit report that they will be charged for duplication costs at a rate
that shall not exceed $0.25 per page; and
      (6)   A statement that copies of the financial statement prepared in
accordance with KRS 424.220, when a financial statement is required by KRS
424.220, are available to the public at no cost at the business address of the
officer responsible for preparation of the statement.
(KRS 91A.040(9))
   (E)   Any resident of the city or owner of real property within the city may
bring an action in the Circuit Court to enforce the provisions of this section.
Any person who violates any provision of this section shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and shall be fined not less than $50 nor more than $500. In
addition, any officer who fails to comply with any of the provisions of this
section shall, for each failure, be subject to a forfeiture of not less than
$50 nor more than $500, in the discretion of the court, which may be recovered
only once in a civil action brought by any resident of the city or owner of
real property within the city. The costs of all proceedings, including a
reasonable fee for the attorney of the resident or property owner bringing the
action, shall be assessed against the unsuccessful party.
(KRS 91A.040(10))
   (F)   If the city determines that the cost of newspaper publication exceeds
the cost of postage, supplies, and reproduction, the city may substitute
delivery of a copy of the advertisement by first class mail to each residence
within the publication area, in lieu of the newspaper publication required by
this section. (KRS 424.190(2))
   (G)   In lieu of the auditing requirements set forth in KRS 91A.040, if the
city for the fiscal year in question receives and expends, from all sources,
and for all purposes, less than $150,000, and has no long-term debt, whether
general obligation or revenue debt, the city may comply fully with the
provisions of KRS 424.220 in lieu of the requirements listed in divisions (A)
through (F) above. In addition, if the city is exempted in accordance with this
division (G), the city shall:
      (1)   Annually prepare a financial statement in accordance with KRS
424.220 and shall, not later than October 1 following the conclusion of the
fiscal year, forward one electronic copy to the Department for Local Government
for information purposes; and
      (2)   If exempted under this division for more than four consecutive
fiscal years after July 1, 2022, have prepared an attestation engagement
covering the fourth fiscal year in which the city qualified for an exemption
under this division. An attestation engagement completed pursuant to this
division shall be:
         (a)   Prepared by an independent certified public accountant or by the
Auditor of Public Accounts pursuant to a contract with the city using generally
accepted attestation standards as promulgated by the American Institute of
Certified Public Accountants and any additional procedures established by the
Department for Local Government through administrative regulation;
         (b)   Completed by no later than March 1 immediately following the
conclusion of the fiscal year in which in the attestation engagement is
required;
         (c)   Submitted to the Department for Local Government as one
electronic copy no later than April 1 after its completion;
         (d)   Advertised to the public within 30 days of its completion by
causing the publication of a legal display advertisement of not less than six
column inches in a newspaper qualified under KRS 424.120 stating that the
attestation has been prepared and copies have been provided to each local
newspaper of general circulation, each news service, and each local radio and
television station which has on file with the city a written request to receive
copies of financial statements under KRS 424.220. Any city advertising under
this division (G)(2)(d) shall be exempt from publishing its financial statement
under KRS 424.220(6)(b) for any year in which it is required to have an
attestation engagement completed; and
         (e)   Provided to the Auditor of Public Accounts upon request for
review of the final report and all related work papers and documents regarding
the attestation engagement.
(KRS 91A.040(4))
(Prior Code, § 33.04)
Statutory reference:
   Governor’s Office for Local Development to provide assistance, see KRS
91A.050
§ 33.05 OFFICIAL DEPOSITORIES; DISBURSEMENT OF CITY FUNDS.
   (A)   The Mayor shall designate as the city’s official depositories one or
more banks, federally insured savings and loan companies, or trust companies
within the state. The amount of funds on deposit in an official depository
shall be fully insured by deposit insurance or collateralized in accordance
with 12 U.S.C. § 1823, to the extent uninsured, by any obligations, including
surety bonds permitted by KRS 41.240(4).
   (B)   All receipts from any source of city money or money for which the city
is responsible, which has not been otherwise invested or deposited in a manner
authorized by law, shall be deposited in official depositories. All city funds
shall be disbursed by written authorization approved by the Mayor which states
the name of the person to whom funds are payable, the purpose of the payment,
and the fund out of which the funds are payable. Each authorization shall be
numbered and recorded.
(KRS 91A.060) (Prior Code, § 33.05)
IMPROVEMENTS
§ 33.15 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ASSESSED VALUE BASIS. The apportionment of cost of an improvement according
to the ratio the assessed value of individual parcels of property bears to the
total assessed value of all such properties.
   BENEFITS RECEIVED BASIS. The apportionment of cost of an improvement
according to equitable determination by Council of the special benefit received
by property from the improvement, including assessed value basis, front foot
basis, and square foot basis, or any combination thereof, and may include
consideration of assessed value of land only, graduation for different classes
of property based on nature and extent of special benefits received, and other
factors affecting benefits received.
   COST. All costs related to an improvement, including planning, design,
property or easement acquisition and construction costs, fiscal and legal fees,
financing costs, and publication expenses.
   FAIR BASIS. Assessed value basis, front foot basis, square foot basis, or
benefits received basis.
   FRONT FOOT BASIS. The apportionment of cost of an improvement according to
the ratio the front footage on the improvement of individual parcels of
property bears to such front footage of all such properties.
   IMPROVEMENT. Construction of any facility for public use or services or any
addition thereto, which is of special benefit to specific properties in the
area served by such facility.
   PROPERTY. Any real property benefited by an improvement.
   SPECIAL ASSESSMENT or ASSESSMENT. A special charge fixed on property to
finance an improvement in whole or in part.
   SQUARE FOOT BASIS. The apportionment of cost of an improvement according to
the ratio the square footage of individual parcels of property bears to the
square footage of all such property.
(KRS 91A.210) (Prior Code, § 33.10)
§ 33.16 FINANCING OF IMPROVEMENTS.
   (A)   The city may not finance any improvement in whole or in part through
special assessments except as provided in this subchapter and in any applicable
statutes.
(KRS 91A.200)
   (B)   Cost of an improvement shall be apportioned equitably on a fair basis.
   (C)   The city may provide for lump sum or installment payment of
assessments or for bond or other long-term financing, and for any improvement
may afford property owners the option as to method of payment or financing.
(KRS 91A.220)
(Prior Code, § 33.11)
§ 33.17 APPORTIONMENT OF COST.
   The cost of any improvement shall be apportioned on a benefits received
basis with respect to any property owned by the state, a local unit of
government, or any educational, religious, or charitable organization. Council
may assess such property in the same manner as for privately-owned property or
it may pay the costs so apportioned out of general revenues.
(KRS 91A.230) (Prior Code, § 33.12)
§ 33.18 COMPREHENSIVE REPORT REQUIRED.
   Before undertaking any improvements pursuant to this subchapter, the city
shall prepare a comprehensive report setting out:
   (A)   The nature of the improvement;
   (B)   The scope and the extent of the improvement, including the boundaries
or other description of the area to be assessed;
   (C)   The preliminary estimated cost of the improvement;
   (D)   The fair basis of assessment proposed;
   (E)   If financing of assessments is provided, the proposed method,
including the proposed years to maturity of any bonds to be issued in
connection with the improvement; and
   (F)   Such other information as may further explain material aspects of the
improvement, assessments, or financing.
(KRS 91A.240) (Prior Code, § 33.13)
§ 33.19 PUBLIC HEARING REQUIRED.
   After preparation of the report required by §
33.18 of this subchapter, the city shall hold at least one public hearing on
the proposed improvement at which all interested persons shall be heard. Notice
of the hearing shall be published pursuant to KRS Chapter 424, and mailed to
each affected property owner by certified mail, return receipt requested, and
shall include:
   (A)   The nature of the improvement;
   (B)   Description of area of the improvement;
   (C)   Statement that the city proposes to finance the improvement in whole
or in part by special assessment of property and the method to be used;
   (D)   Time and place the report may be examined; and
   (E)   Time and place of the hearing.
(KRS 91A.250) (Prior Code, § 33.14)
§ 33.20 ADOPTION OF ORDINANCE; NOTICE TO AFFECTED OWNERS.
   Within 90 days of conclusion of the hearing, the city shall determine
whether to proceed with the improvement by special assessments, and if it
determines to proceed, shall adopt an ordinance so stating and containing all
necessary terms, including the items referred to in §
33.18 of this subchapter and a description of all properties. Promptly upon
passage, the city shall publish such ordinance pursuant to KRS Chapter 424 and
shall mail by certified mail to each affected property owner, a notice of
determination to proceed with the project, the fair basis of assessment to be
utilized, the estimated cost to the property owner, and the ratio the cost to
each property owner bears to the total cost of the entire project.
(KRS 91A.260) (Prior Code, § 33.15)
§ 33.21 AFFECTED OWNER MAY CONTEST.
   (A)   Within 30 days of the mailing of the notice provided for in §
33.20 of this subchapter, any affected property owner may file an action in the
Circuit Court of the county, contesting the undertaking of the project by
special assessment, the inclusion of his or her property in the improvement, or
the amount of his or her assessment. If the action contests the undertaking of
the improvement by the special assessment method of the inclusion of the
property of that property owner, no further action on the improvement insofar
as it relates to any property owner who is a plaintiff shall be taken until the
final judgment has been entered.
   (B)   The city may proceed with the improvement with respect to any
properties whose owners have not filed or joined in an action as provided in
this section or who have contested only the amounts of their assessments, and
the provisions of the resolution are final and binding with respect to such
property owners, except as to contested amounts of assessments. After the lapse
of time as herein provided, all actions by owners of properties are forever
barred.
(KRS 91A.270) (Prior Code, § 33.16)
§ 33.22 WHEN CITY MAY PROCEED; ASSESSMENT CONSTITUTES LIEN.
   (A)   After the passage of time for the action provided for in §
33.21 of this subchapter, or after favorable final judgment in any such action,
whichever comes later, the city may proceed with the improvement or part
thereof stayed by the action, including notice requiring payment of special
assessment or installment thereon and bonds or other method proposed to finance
the improvement. The first installment may be apportioned so that other
payments will coincide with payment of ad valorem taxes.
   (B)   The amount of any outstanding assessment or installments thereof on
any property, and accrued interest and other charges, constitutes a lien on the
property to secure payment to the bondholders or any other source of financing
of the improvement. The lien takes precedence over all other liens, whether
created prior to or subsequent to the publication of the ordinance, except a
lien for state and county taxes, general municipal taxes, and prior improvement
taxes, and is not defeated or postponed by any private or judicial sale, by any
mortgage, or by any error or mistake in the description of the property or in
the names of the owners. No error in the proceedings of the Council shall
exempt any benefited property from the lien for the improvement assessment, or
from payment thereof, or from the penalties or interest thereon, as herein
provided.
(KRS 91A.280) (Prior Code, § 33.17)
§ 33.23 EFFECT OF ADDITIONAL PROPERTY OR CHANGE IN FINANCING.
   The city may undertake any further proceedings to carry out the improvement
or any extension or refinancing thereof, except that §§
33.18 through
33.22 of this subchapter applies if additional property is included in the
improvement or if change is made in the method or period of financing; but
additional property may be included in the improvement with the consent of the
owner thereof without compliance with other sections if it does not increase
the cost apportioned to any other property, or any other change may be made
without such compliance if all property owners of the improvement consent.
(KRS 91A.290) (Prior Code, § 33.18)
SMALL PURCHASES PROCEDURE CODE
§ 33.35 ADOPTION.
   The Small Purchases Procedure Code set forth in this subchapter is hereby
adopted and shall be adhered to for all purchases amounting to $7,500 or less.
All purchases in excess of $7,500 shall be made in compliance with applicable
state law. (See KRS Chapter 45A.)
(Prior Code, § 33.30) (Res. passed 1-14-1980)
§ 33.36 ADMINISTRATION.
   (A)   The Mayor shall be responsible for the procurement of all items
purchased by the city. The Mayor may delegate this authority to a purchasing
officer.
   (B)   The purchasing officer shall execute, sign, and issue a three-part
purchase order for all purchases.
(Prior Code, § 33.31) (Res. passed 1-14-1980)
§ 33.37 PURCHASE PROCEDURES.
   (A)   When the cost of any purchase will be in excess of $7,500, a contract
will be issued in compliance with KRS Chapter 45A.
   (B)   Purchases of products or services ranging from $300 to $7,500, will
require a determination by the Mayor that the purchase is necessary and
consistent with budget provisions.
   (C)   Wherever possible, two or more price quotes will be obtained and the
vendor with the offer most advantageous to the city shall be chosen.
   (D)   For small purchases under $300, the Mayor or purchasing officer may
determine the need and budgetary capabilities and provisions and choose the
vendor based on price and other considerations as necessary.
   (E)   A purchase order will then be issued in three parts to be distributed
as follows:
      (1)   Copy A (white): to vendor;
      (2)   Copy B (yellow): to “bills-pending” file; and
      (3)   Copy C (pink): to purchase order numerical file.
(Prior Code, § 33.32) (Res. passed 1-14-1980)
§ 33.38 SELECTION OF VENDORS.
   The city shall be at all times fair and impartial in its selection of
vendors and offerors of services.
(Prior Code, § 33.33) (Res. passed 1-14-1980)
CHAPTER 34: PUBLIC RECORDS
Section
General
   
34.01   Definitions
Procedures for Requesting Public Records
   
34.15   Initial request with immediate inspection
   
34.16   Referral to proper custodian
   
34.17   Public records not immediately available
   
34.18   Refusal of unreasonable requests
   
34.19   Time limitation; denial of inspection
   
34.20   Concealing or destroying records prohibited
   
34.21   Access to records relating to particular individual
   
34.22   Public records protected from disclosure
GENERAL
§ 34.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CITY. The city government of this city.
   COMMERCIAL PURPOSE. The direct or indirect use of any public record or
records, in any form, for sale, resale, solicitation, rent, or lease of a
service, or any use by which the user expects a profit either through
commission, salary, or fee. COMMERCIAL PURPOSE shall not include publication or
related use of a public record by a newspaper or periodical; use of a public
record by a radio or television station in its news or other informational
programs; or use of a public record in the preparation for prosecution or
defense of litigation, or claims settlement by the parties to such action, or
the attorneys representing the parties.
(KRS 61.870(4))
   CUSTODIAN. The official custodian or any authorized person having personal
custody and control of public records. The CUSTODIAN having personal custody of
most of the public records of this city is the City Clerk-Treasurer.
(KRS 61.870(6))
   MECHANICAL PROCESSING. Any operation or other procedure which is transacted
on a machine, and which may include, but is not limited to a copier, computer,
recorder or tape processor, or other automated device.
(KRS 61.870(8))
   MEDIA. The physical material in or on which records may be stored or
represented, and which may include, but is not limited to paper, microform,
disks, diskettes, optical disks, magnetic tapes, and cards.
(KRS 61.870(7))
   OFFICIAL CUSTODIAN. The chief administrative officer or any other officer or
employee of a public agency who is responsible for the maintenance, care, and
keeping of public records, regardless of whether such records are in his or her
actual personal custody and control. The OFFICIAL CUSTODIAN of this city shall
be the Mayor.
(KRS 61.870(5))
   PERSON. A human being who makes a bodily appearance before the office of the
custodian and makes a request for inspection of public records.
   PUBLIC AGENCY. Every city governmental board, commission, and authority;
every city council and council board, commission and committee; every school
district board, special district board, and municipal corporation; every city
governmental agency, including the policymaking board of an institution of
education created by or pursuant to state or local statute, executive order,
ordinance, resolution, or other legislative act; any body created by or
pursuant to state or local statute, executive order, ordinance, resolution, or
other legislative act in the legislative or executive branch of government; any
entity when the majority of its governing body is appointed by a PUBLIC AGENCY,
as defined by this section; a member or employee of a PUBLIC AGENCY, a state or
local officer, or any combination thereof; any board, commission, committee,
subcommittee, ad hoc committee, advisory committee, council, or agency, except
for a committee of a hospital medical staff or a committee formed for the
purpose of evaluating the qualifications of public agency employees,
established, created, or controlled by a PUBLIC AGENCY as defined in this
section; an interagency body of two or more public agencies where each PUBLIC
AGENCY is defined in this section.
(KRS 61.870(1)(a)–(d), (f), (g), (j), (k))
   PUBLIC RECORDS. All books, papers, maps, photographs, cards, tapes, discs,
diskettes, recordings, or other documentation regardless of physical form or
characteristics, which are prepared, owned, used, in the possession of, or
retained by a public agency. PUBLIC RECORDS shall not include any records owned
or maintained by or for a body referred to in KRS 61.870(1)(h) that are not
related  to functions, activities, programs, or operations funded by state or
local authority nor any records that have been excluded by § 34.17 of this
chapter.
(KRS 61.870(2))
   REASONABLE FEE or FEE. The fair payment required by a public agency for
making copies of nonexempt public records requested for noncommercial purposes
which shall not exceed the actual cost of reproduction, including the costs of
the media and any mechanical processing cost incurred by the public agency, but
not including the cost of staff. If a public agency is asked to produce a
record in a nonstandardized format, or to tailor the format to meet the request
of an individual or a group, the public agency may, at its discretion, provide
the requested format and recover staff costs as well as any actual costs
incurred.
   REQUEST. An oral petition by any person or, at the option of the custodian,
the completion of a written application that clearly states the specific public
record or records that are desired for inspection or duplication.
   RESIDENT OF THE COMMONWEALTH.
      (1)   An individual residing in the Commonwealth;
      (2)   A domestic business entity with a location in the Commonwealth;
      (3)   A foreign business entity registered with the Secretary of State;
      (4)   An individual that is employed and works at a location or locations
within the Commonwealth;
      (5)   An individual or business entity that owns real property within the
Commonwealth;
      (6)   Any individual or business entity that has been authorized to act
on behalf of an individual or business entity defined in divisions (1) through
(5) of this definition; or
      (7)   A news-gathering organization as defined in KRS 189.635(8)(b)1.a.
to e.
(KRS 61.870(10))
   SOFTWARE. The program code which makes a computer system function, but does
not include that portion of the program code which contains public records
exempted from inspection as provided by KRS 61.878 or specific addresses of
files, passwords, access codes, user identifications, or any other mechanism
for controlling the security or restricting access to public records in the
public agency’s computer system. SOFTWARE consists of the operating system,
application programs, procedures, routines, and subroutines, such as
translators and utility programs, but does not include that material  which is
prohibited from disclosure or copying by a license agreement between a public
agency and an outside entity which supplied the material to the agency.
(KRS 61.870(3))
(Prior Code, § 34.01)  
PROCEDURES FOR REQUESTING PUBLIC RECORDS
§ 34.15 INITIAL REQUEST WITH IMMEDIATE INSPECTION.
   (A)   (1)   As defined in §
34.01 of this chapter, and subject to the limitations set forth in §
34.22 of this subchapter, any resident of the Commonwealth shall have the right
to inspect public records. The official custodian may require a written
application, signed by the applicant and with his or her name printed legibly
on the application, describing the records to be inspected. The official
custodian may require the applicant to provide a statement in the written
application of the manner in which the applicant is a resident of the
Commonwealth under KRS 61.870(1)(a) through (f).
         (a)   The written application shall be hand delivered;
         (b)   Mailed;
         (c)   Sent via facsimile; or
         (d)   Sent via e-mail to the public agency’s official custodian of
public records or his or her designee at the email address designated in the
public agency’s rules and regulations adopted pursuant to KRS 61.876.
      (2)   A public agency shall not require the use of any particular form
for the submission of an open records request, but shall accept for any request
the standardized form developed under KRS 61.876(4).
(KRS 61.872(2))
   (B)   If the custodian determines that a person’s request is in compliance
with the Open Records Law, being KRS 61.870 et seq., and the requested records
are immediately available, the custodian shall deliver the records for
inspection. Suitable facilities shall be made available in the office of the
City Clerk-Treasurer for the inspection. No person shall remove original copies
of public records from the offices of any public agency without the written
permission of the official custodian of the record.
(KRS 61.872(1))
   (C)   An applicant may inspect public records during the regular business
hours of the city, or by receiving copies of the public records from the city
through the mail if the applicant’s residence or principal place of business is
outside of the county in which the city is located and he or she has precisely
described public records which are available within the city.
   (D)   Upon inspection, the applicant shall have the right to make abstracts
of the public records and memoranda thereof, and to obtain copies of all public
records not exempted by the terms of KRS 61.878. When copies are requested, the
custodian may require a written request and advance payment of the prescribed
fee as defined in §
34.01 of this chapter, including postage where appropriate. If the applicant
desires copies of public records other than written records, the custodian of
the records shall duplicate the records or permit the applicant to duplicate
the records; however, the custodian shall ensure that such duplication will not
damage or alter the original records.
(KRS 61.874(1))
   (E)   Nonexempt public records used for noncommercial purposes shall be
available for copying in either standard electronic or standard hard copy
format, as designated by the party requesting the records, where the agency
currently maintains the records in electronic format. Nonexempt public records
used for noncommercial purposes shall be copied in standard hard copy format
where agencies currently maintain records in hard copy format. Agencies are not
required to convert hard copy format records to electronic formats.
   (F)   The minimum standard format in paper form shall be defined as not less
than 8-1/2" by 11" in at least one color on white paper, or for electronic
format, in a flat file electronic American Standard Code for Information
Interchange (ASCII) format. If the public agency maintains electronic public
records in a format other than ASCII, and this format conforms to the
requestor’s requirements, the public records may be provided in this alternate
electronic format for standard fees as specified by the public agency. Any
request for a public record in a form other than the forms described in this
section shall be considered a nonstandardized request.
(KRS 61.874(2))
   (G)   Unless an enactment of the General Assembly prohibits the disclosure
of public records to persons who intend to use them for commercial purposes, if
copies of nonexempt public records are requested for commercial purposes, the
public agency may establish a reasonable fee. The public agency from which
copies of nonexempt public records are requested for a commercial purpose may
require a certified statement from the requestor stating the commercial purpose
for which they shall be used, and may require the requestor to enter into a
contract with the agency. The contract shall permit use of the public records
for the stated commercial purpose for a specified fee. The fee may be based on
the cost to the public agency of media, mechanical processing and staff
required to produce a copy of the public record or records or the cost to the
public agency of the creation purchase, or the acquisition of the public
records.
(KRS 61.874(4))
   (H)   It shall be unlawful for a person to obtain a copy of any part of a
public record for a:
      (1)   Commercial purpose, without stating the commercial purpose, if a
certified statement from the requestor was required by the public agency
pursuant to division (G) above;
      (2)   Commercial purpose, if the person uses or knowingly allows the use
of the public record for a different commercial purpose; or
      (3)   Noncommercial purpose, if the person uses or knowingly allows the
use of the public record for a commercial purpose. A newspaper, periodical,
radio, or television station shall not be held to have used or knowingly
allowed the use of the public record for a commercial purpose merely because of
its publication or broadcast, unless it has also given its express permission
for that commercial use.
(KRS 61.874(5))
   (I)   Online access to public records in electronic form, as provided under
this section, may be provided and made available at the discretion of the
public agency. If a party wishes to access public records by electronic means
and the public agency agrees to provide online access, a public agency may
require that the party enter into a contract, license, or other agreement with
the agency, and may charge fees for these agreements. Fees shall not exceed:
      (1)   The cost of physical connection to the system and reasonable cost
of computer time access charges; or
      (2)   If the records are requested for a commercial purpose, a reasonable
fee based on the factors set forth in division (G) above.
(KRS 61.874(6))
(Prior Code, § 34.05)
§ 34.16 REFERRAL TO PROPER CUSTODIAN.
   If the City Clerk-Treasurer does not have custody or control of the public
record or records requested, the City Clerk-Treasurer shall so notify the
applicant and shall furnish the name and location of the custodian of the
public record, if such facts are known to him or her.
(KRS 61.872(4)) (Prior Code, § 34.06)
§ 34.17 PUBLIC RECORDS NOT IMMEDIATELY AVAILABLE.
   If the public record is in active use, in storage, or not otherwise
available, the official custodian shall immediately so notify the applicant and
shall designate a place, time, and date for inspection of the public records,
not to exceed three days (excepting Saturdays, Sundays, and legal holidays)
from receipt of the application, unless a detailed explanation of the cause is
given for further delay and the place, time, and earliest date on which the
public record will be available for inspection or duplication.
(KRS 61.872(5)) (Prior Code, § 34.07)
§ 34.18 REFUSAL OF UNREASONABLE REQUESTS.
   If the application places an unreasonable burden in producing voluminous
public records, or if the custodian has reason to believe that repeated
requests are intended to disrupt other essential functions of the public
agency, the official custodian may refuse to permit inspection of the public
records or mail copies thereof. However, refusal under this section must be
sustained by clear and convincing evidence.
(KRS 61.872(6)) (Prior Code, § 34.08)
§ 34.19 TIME LIMITATION; DENIAL OF INSPECTION.
   (A)   If a person enforces this chapter pursuant to this section, he or she
shall begin enforcement under this division (A) before proceeding to
enforcement under KRS 61.880(2). Each public agency, upon any request for
records made under this chapter, shall determine within five days (excepting
Saturdays, Sundays, and legal holidays) after the receipt of any request
whether to comply with the request and shall notify in writing the person
making the request within the five-day period of its decision. Any agency
response denying, in whole or in part, inspection of any record shall include a
statement of the specific exception authorizing the withholding of the record
and a brief explanation of how the exception applies to the record withheld.
The response shall be issued by the official custodian or under his or her
authority and shall constitute final agency action.
(KRS 61.880(1))
   (B)   If the requesting party wants the Attorney General to review the
denial of a request for inspection of a public record, he or she shall precede
under the provisions of KRS 61.880 and 61.882. Upon the Attorney General’s
request, the agency will provide additional documentation.
   (C)   A party shall have 30 days from the day that the Attorney General
renders his or her decision to appeal the decision. An appeal brought within
the 30-day time limit shall be treated as if it were an action brought under
KRS 61.882. If an appeal is not filed within the 30-day time limit, the
Attorney General’s decision shall have the force and effect of law and shall be
enforceable in the Circuit Court of the county where the public agency has its
principal place of business or the Circuit Court of the county where the public
agency is maintained.
(KRS 61.880(5)) (Prior Code, § 34.09)
§ 34.20 CONCEALING OR DESTROYING RECORDS PROHIBITED.
   No official of the city shall willfully conceal or destroy any record with
the intent to violate the provisions of this chapter or these rules and
regulations.
(Prior Code, § 34.10)
§ 34.21 ACCESS TO RECORDS RELATING TO PARTICULAR INDIVIDUAL.
   Any person shall have access to any public record relating to him or her or
in which he or she is mentioned by name, upon presentation of appropriate
identification, subject to the provisions of §
34.22 of this subchapter.
(KRS 61.884) (Prior Code, § 34.21)
§ 34.22 PUBLIC RECORDS PROTECTED FROM DISCLOSURE.
   (A)   The following public records are excluded from the application of this
chapter and these rules and regulations, and shall be subject to inspection
only upon order of a court of competent jurisdiction, except that no court
shall authorize the inspection by any party of any materials pertaining to
civil litigation beyond that which is provided by the Rules of Civil Procedure
governing pretrial discovery:
      (1)   Public records containing information of a personal nature where
the public disclosure thereof would constitute a clearly unwarranted invasion
of personal privacy;
      (2)   Records confidentially disclosed to an agency and compiled and
maintained for scientific research. This exemption shall not, however, apply to
records the disclosure or publication of which is directed by other statute;
      (3)   Records confidentially disclosed to an agency or required by an
agency to be disclosed to it, generally recognized as confidential or
proprietary, which if opened would permit an unfair commercial advantage to
competitors of the entity that disclosed the records to the agency, if the
records are compiled and maintained in conjunction with an application or the
administration of a loan or grant; in conjunction with an application for or
the administration of assessments, incentives, inducements, and tax credits as
described in KRS Chapter 154; in conjunction with the regulation of commercial
enterprise, including mineral exploration records, unpatented, secret
commercially valuable plans, appliances, formulae, or processes, which are used
for the making, preparing, compounding, treating, or processing of articles or
materials which are trade commodities obtained from a person; or for the grant
or review of a license to do business. This exemption shall not, however apply
to records the disclosure or publication of which is directed by other
statutes;
      (4)   Public records pertaining to a prospective location of a business
or industry where no previous public disclosure has been made of the business’
or industry’s interest in locating in, relocating within, or expanding within
the state. This exemption shall not include those records pertaining to
applications to agencies for permits or licenses necessary to do business or to
expand business operations within the state, except as provided in division (A)
(3) above;
      (5)   The contents of real estate appraisals or engineering or
feasibility estimates and evaluations made by or for a public agency relative
to the acquisition of property, until such time as all of the property has been
acquired. The law of eminent domain shall not be affected by this provision;
      (6)   Test questions, scoring keys, and other examination data used to
administer a licensing examination, examination for employment, or academic
examination before the exam is given or if it is to be given again;
      (7)   Records of law enforcement agencies or agencies involved in
administrative adjudication that were compiled in the process of detecting and
investigating statutory or regulatory violations, if the disclosure of the
information would harm the agency by revealing the identity of informants not
otherwise known or by premature release of information to be used in
prospective law enforcement action or administrative adjudication. Unless
exempted by other provisions of this chapter, public records exempted under
this provision shall be open after enforcement action is completed or a
decision is made to take no action. The exemptions provided by this division
(A)(7) shall not be used by the custodian of the records to delay or impede the
exercise of rights granted by this chapter;
      (8)   Preliminary drafts, notes, or correspondence with private
individuals, other than correspondence which is intended to give notice of
final action of a public agency;
      (9)   Preliminary recommendations and preliminary memoranda in which
opinions are expressed or policies formulated or recommended;
      (10)   All public records or information the disclosure of which is
prohibited by federal law or regulation;
      (11)   Public records or information the disclosure of which is
prohibited or restricted or otherwise made confidential by enactment of the
General Assembly;
      (12)   (a)   Public records the disclosure of which would have a
reasonable likelihood of threatening the public safety by exposing a
vulnerability in preventing, protecting against, mitigating, or responding to a
terrorist act and limited to:
            1.   Criticality lists resulting from consequence assessments;
            2.   Vulnerability assessments;
            3.   Antiterrorism protective measures and plans;
            4.   Security and response needs assessments;
            5.   Infrastructure records that expose a vulnerability referred to
in this division through the disclosure of the location, configuration, or
security of critical systems, including public utility critical systems. These
critical systems shall include but not be limited to information technology,
communication, electrical, fire suppression, ventilation, water, wastewater,
sewage, and gas systems;
            6.   The following records when their disclosure will expose a
vulnerability referred to in this division (A)(12)(a): detailed drawings,
schematics, maps, or specifications of structural elements, floor plans, and
operating, utility, or security systems of any building or facility owned,
occupied, leased, or maintained by a public agency; and
            7.   Records when their disclosure will expose a vulnerability
referred to in this division and that describe the exact physical location of
hazardous chemical, radiological, or biological materials.
         (b)   As used in this division (A)(12), TERRORIST ACT means a criminal
act intended to:
            1.   Intimidate or coerce a public agency or all or part of the
civilian population;
            2.   Disrupt a system identified in division (A)(12)(a)5. above; or
            3.   Cause massive destruction to a building or facility owned,
occupied, leased, or maintained by a public agency.
         (c)   On the same day that a public agency denies a request to inspect
a public record for a reason identified in this division, that public agency
shall forward a copy of the written denial of the request, referred to in KRS
61.880(1), to the executive director of the Kentucky Office of Homeland
Security and the Attorney General;
         (d)   Nothing in this division shall affect the obligations of a
public agency with respect to disclosure and availability of public records
under state environmental, health, and safety programs;
         (e)   The exemption established in this division shall not apply when
a member of the Kentucky General Assembly seeks to inspect a public record
identified in this division under the Open Records Law, being KRS 61.870 et
seq.
      (13)   Public or private records, including books, papers, maps,
photographs, cards, tapes, discs, diskettes, recordings, software, or other
documentation regardless of physical form or characteristics, having historic,
literary, artistic, or commemorative value accepted by the archivist of a
public university, museum, or government depository from a donor or depositor
other than a public agency. This exemption shall apply to the extent that
nondisclosure is requested in writing by the donor or depositor of such
records, but shall not apply to records the disclosure or publication of which
is mandated by another statute or by federal law.
   (B)   No exemption under this section shall be construed to prohibit
disclosure of statistical information not descriptive of any readily
identifiable person. In addition, if any public record contains material which
is not excepted under this section, the city shall separate the excepted and
make the nonexcepted material available for examination, subject to the
possible applicability of §
34.18 of this subchapter.
   (C)   The provisions of this section shall in no way prohibit or limit the
exchange of public records or the sharing of information between public
agencies when the exchange is serving a legitimate governmental need or is
necessary in the performance of a legitimate government function.
   (D)   No exemption under this section shall be construed to deny, abridge,
or impede the right of a municipal employee, an applicant for employment, or an
eligible on a register to inspect and copy any record, including preliminary
and other supporting documentation, that relates to him or her. Such records
shall include, but not be limited to work plans, job performance, demotions,
evaluations, promotions, compensation, classification, reallocation, transfers,
layoffs, disciplinary actions, examination scores, and preliminary and other
supporting documentation. A municipal employee, applicant, or eligible employee
shall not have the right to inspect or copy any examination or any documents
relating to ongoing criminal or administrative investigations by an agency.
(KRS 61.878(a)–(d), (f)–(n)) (Prior Code, § 34.12)
CHAPTER 35: PUBLIC MEETINGS
Section
General
   
35.01   Definitions
Public Meeting Requirements
   
35.15   Meetings open to the public
   
35.16   Requirements for closed sessions
   
35.17   Public meeting schedules
   
35.18   Special meetings
   
35.19   Video teleconferences
   
35.20   Enforcement
Conduct at Legislative Body Meetings
   
35.30   Officers
   
35.31   Agenda
   
35.32   Procedure
   
35.33   Minutes
   
35.34   Standing rules
GENERAL
§ 35.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following words and phrases shall have
the following meanings ascribed to them respectively.
   ACTION TAKEN. A collective decision, a commitment or promise to make a
positive or negative decision, or an actual vote by a majority of the members
of the governmental body.
(KRS 61.805(3))
   MEETING. All gatherings of every kind, regardless of where the meeting is
held, and whether regular or special and informational or casual gatherings
held in anticipation of or in conjunction with a regular or special meeting.
(KRS 61.805(1))
   MEMBER. A member of the governing body of a public agency. MEMBER does not
include employees or licensees of the agency.
(KRS 61.805(4))
   PUBLIC AGENCY. Every city government board, commission, and authority; every
city council and council board, commission, and committee; every school
district board, special district board, and municipal corporation; every city
government agency, including the policy-making board of an institution of
education created by or pursuant to state or local statute, executive order,
ordinance, resolution, or other legislative act; any body created by or
pursuant to state or local statute, executive order, ordinance, resolution, or
other legislative act in the legislative or executive branch of government; any
entity when the majority of its governing body is appointed by a PUBLIC AGENCY
as defined by this section; a member or employee of a PUBLIC AGENCY; a state or
local officer, or any combination thereof; any board, commission, committee,
subcommittee, ad hoc committee, advisory committee, council, or agency, except
for a committee of a hospital medical staff or a committee formed for the
purpose of evaluating the qualification of public agency employees,
established, created, or controlled by a PUBLIC AGENCY as defined in this
section; an interagency body of two or more public agencies where each PUBLIC
AGENCY is defined in this section.
(KRS 61.805(2))
   VIDEO TELECONFERENCE. One meeting, occurring in two or more locations, where
individuals can see and hear each other by means of video and audio equipment.
(KRS 61.805(5))
(Prior Code, § 34A.01)
PUBLIC MEETING REQUIREMENTS
§ 35.15 MEETINGS OPEN TO THE PUBLIC.
   (A)   All meetings of a quorum of the members of any public agency at which
any public business is discussed or at which any action is taken by the agency,
shall be public meetings, open to the public at all times, except for the
following:
      (1)   Deliberations on the future acquisition or sale of real property by
a public agency, but only when publicity would be likely to affect the value of
a specific piece of property to be acquired for public use or sold by a public
agency;
      (2)   Discussions of proposed or pending litigation against or on behalf
of the public agency;
      (3)   Collective bargaining negotiations between public employers and
their employees or their representatives;
      (4)   Discussions or hearings which might lead to the appointment,
discipline, or dismissal of an individual employee, member, or student without
restricting that employee’s, member’s or student’s right to a public hearing if
requested. This exception shall not be interpreted to permit discussion of
general personnel matters in secret;
      (5)   Discussions between a public agency and a representative of a
business entity and discussions concerning a specific proposal, if open
discussions would jeopardize the siting, retention, expansion, or upgrading of
the business;
      (6)   Local cabinet meetings and executive cabinet meetings;
      (7)   Deliberations of judicial or quasi-judicial bodies regarding
individual adjudications or appointments, at which neither the person involved,
his or her representatives, nor any other individual not a member of the
agency’s governing body or staff is present, but not including any meetings of
planning commissions, zoning commissions, or boards of adjustment;
      (8)   That portion of a meeting devoted to a discussion of a specific
public record exempted from disclosure under §
34.22(A)(12) of this title. However, that portion of any public agency meeting
shall not be closed to a member of the Kentucky General Assembly;
      (9)   Meetings which federal or state law specifically require to be
conducted in privacy;
      (10)   Meetings which the Constitution provides shall be held in secret;
and
      (11)   Meetings of any selection committee, evaluation committee, or
other similar group established under KRS Chapter 45A or 56 or other state or
local law, to select a successful bidder for award of a state or local
contract.
   (B)   Any series of less than quorum meetings, where the members attending
one or more of the meetings collectively constitute at least a quorum of the
members of the public agency and where the meetings are held for the purpose of
avoiding the requirements of division (A) above, shall be subject to the
requirements of division (A) above. Nothing in this section shall be construed
to prohibit discussion between individual members where the purpose of the
discussions is to educate the members on specific issues.
(KRS 61.810(1)(b),(c),(e),(f)–(h),(j)–(n)) (Prior Code, § 34A.05)
§ 35.16 REQUIREMENTS FOR CLOSED SESSIONS.
   The following requirements shall be met as a condition for conducting closed
sessions by those public agencies authorized by §
35.15(A)(1) and (A)(4) except as division (A)(4) of this section relates to
students:
   (A)   Notice shall be given in regular open meeting of the general nature of
the business to be discussed in closed session, the reason for the closed
session, and the specific provision of §
35.15 of this subchapter authorizing the closed session;
   (B)   Closed sessions may be held only after a motion is made and carried by
a majority vote in open, public session;
   (C)   No final action may be taken in closed session;
   (D)   No matters may be discussed at a closed session other than those
publicly announced prior to convening the closed session; and
   (E)   Public agencies and activities identified in §
35.15(A)(2), (A)(3), and (A)(4) of this subchapter but only so far as §
35.15(A)(4) of this subchapter relates to students, §
35.15(A)(5), (A)(6), (A)(7), (A)(8), (A)(9), and (A)(10) of this subchapter are
excluded from the requirements of this section.
(KRS 61.815) (Prior Code, § 34A.06)
§ 35.17 PUBLIC MEETING SCHEDULES.
   All meetings of a public agency shall be held at specified times and places
which are convenient to the public, and all public agencies shall provide for a
schedule of regular meetings by ordinance, order, resolution, bylaws, or by
whatever other means may be required for the conduct of business of the public
agency. The schedule of regular meetings shall be made available to the public.
(KRS 61.820) (Prior Code, § 34A.07)
§ 35.18 SPECIAL MEETINGS.
   (A)   Except as provided by division (B) below, the following requirements
shall govern special meetings of public agencies.
      (1)   The presiding officer or a majority of the members of the public
agency may call a special meeting.
      (2)   The public agency shall provide written notice of the special
meeting containing the date, time, place of the special meeting, and the
agenda. Discussions and action at the meeting shall be limited to items listed
on the agenda in the notice.
      (3)   As soon as possible, written notice shall be delivered personally,
transmitted by facsimile, or mailed to every member of the public agency, as
well as each media organization which has filed a written request, including a
mailing address, to receive notice of special meetings. The notice shall be
received at least 24 hours before the special meeting. The public agency may
periodically, but no more often than once in a calendar year, inform media
organizations that they will have to submit a new written request or no longer
receive written notice of special meetings until a new written request is
filed.
      (4)   As soon as possible, written notice shall also be posted in a
conspicuous place in the building where the special meeting will take place and
in a conspicuous place in the building which houses the headquarters of the
agency. The notice shall be posted at least 24 hours before the special
meeting.
   (B)   In the case of an emergency which prevents compliance with the notice
requirements in this section, this division (B) shall govern a public agency’s
conduct of a special meeting. The special meeting shall be called pursuant to
division (A)(1) above. The public agency shall make a reasonable effort, under
emergency circumstances, to notify the members of the agency, media
organizations which have filed a written request pursuant to this section, and
the public of the emergency meeting. At the beginning of the emergency meeting,
the person chairing the meeting shall briefly describe for the record the
emergency circumstances preventing compliance with the notice requirements of
this section. These comments shall appear in the minutes. Discussion and action
at the emergency meeting shall be limited to the emergency for which the
meeting is called.
(KRS 61.823) (Prior Code, § 34A.08)
§ 35.19 VIDEO TELECONFERENCES.
   (A)   A public agency may conduct any meeting through video teleconference.
   (B)   Notice of a video teleconference meeting:
      (1)   Shall comply with the requirements of KRS 61.820 or 61.823 as
appropriate;
      (2)   Clearly state that the meeting will be a video teleconference; and
      (3)   Provide specific information on how any member of the public or
media organization may view the meeting electronically; and
      (4)   In any case where the public agency has elected to provide a
physical location, or in any circumstance where two or more members of the
public agency are attending a video teleconference meeting from the same
physical location, precisely identify a primary physical location of the video
teleconference where all members can be seen and heard and hte public may
attend in accordance with KRS 61.840.
   (C)   The same procedure with regard to participation, distribution of
materials, and other matters shall apply in all video teleconference locations.
Members of the public agency who participate in a video teleconference shall
remain visible on camera at all times that business is being discussed.
   (D)   Any interruption in the video or audio broadcast of a video
teleconference at any location shall result in the suspension of the video
teleconference until the broadcast is restored.
   (E)   If a regular meeting is changed to a video conference, the meeting
shall remain a regular meeting if the meeting occurs on the same date and time
as originally schedules and the public agency follows the provisions of KRS
61.823(4) to provide a notice that meets the requirements of divisions (B)(1)
through (B)(4) above.
(KRS 61.826) (Prior Code, § 34A.09)
§ 35.20 ENFORCEMENT.
   The provisions of this chapter shall be enforced pursuant to KRS 61.846 and
61.848 for enforcing KRS 61.805 to 61.850statutory.
(Prior Code, § 34A.10)
Cross-reference:
   Rules of procedure, see §§
32.20 through
32.23
CONDUCT AT LEGISLATIVE BODY MEETINGS
§ 35.30 OFFICERS.
   (A)   Presiding officer.
      (1)   The presiding officer shall be the Mayor. In the case of the
Mayor’s absence, the legislative body member who received the most votes in the
most recent general election shall be the presiding officer. In the case of the
absence of both, the legislative body will elect a temporary presiding officer
for the duration of the meeting or until either the Mayor or the legislative
body member who received the most votes in the most recent general election
arrive. A legislative body member serving as the presiding officer retains all
of his or her legislative powers and duties.
      (2)   The duties of the presiding officer are as follows:
         (a)   Call the meeting to order;
         (b)   Control the general flow of the meeting by announcing, in proper
order the business on the agenda;
         (c)   Recognize members entitled to the floor;
         (d)   State and put to a vote all motions (questions) that arise
during the meeting and announce the results on all votes;
         (e)   Rule all motions that are improperly made as “out of order;”
         (f)   Enforce the legislative body’s rule of order and maintain the
decorum of the meeting;
         (g)   Decide all points of order raised by the members;
         (h)   Expedite business in every way compatible with the rights of the
members;
         (i)   Respond to all requests and inquiries of the members relevant to
the business at hand; and
         (j)   Declare the meeting adjourned.
   (B)   Legislative body members. Only members of the legislative body may
introduce motions, second motions, debate issues, and vote on matters (except
the Mayor may vote in the case of a tie on some items). Legislative body
members should be knowledgeable about general parliamentary rules and standing
rules adopted by the body, address all remarks through the presiding officer,
and refrain from disturbing the meeting in any way (including obstructing
business or using dilatory parliamentary tactics).
   (C)   City Clerk-Treasurer.
      (1)   Listed below are the functions performed by the City Clerk-
Treasurer at legislative body meetings. In the absence of the City Clerk-
Treasurer, the presiding officer or legislative body must appoint another
individual to perform the duties of the City Clerk-Treasurer.
      (2)   The duties of the City Clerk-Treasurer are as follows:
         (a)   Call the roll;
         (b)   Act as timekeeper during debate;
         (c)   Take minutes of the meeting;
         (d)   Track the progress of the meeting and the status of the agenda;
         (e)   Read by title and summary (or in full when necessary) all
ordinances, resolutions, orders, and other written items of business introduced
for consideration;
         (f)   Advise the presiding officer when requested to do so;
         (g)   Record the vote on all matters and inform the presiding officer
of the vote count, when applicable; and
         (h)   Perform any other function required by the rules of the
legislative body or requested by the presiding officer.
   (D)   Parliamentarian. The parliamentarian gives explanations or advice on
procedural matters, but he or she does not make rulings. (Only the presiding
officer makes rulings on procedural matters.) The City Attorney shall act as
the parliamentarian. In his or her absence, the City Clerk-Treasurer shall act
as parliamentarian. If both the City Attorney and the City Clerk-Treasurer are
absent, the presiding officer may appoint a temporary parliamentarian for the
duration of the meeting or until either the City Attorney or the City Clerk-
Treasurer arrives.
(Ord. 2021-01, passed 6-25-2021)
§ 35.31 AGENDA.
   (A)   Preparation. The agenda will be prepared by the City Clerk-Treasurer
after consultation with the Mayor, members of the legislative body, and other
appointed city officers.
   (B)   Notice.
      (1)   Agendas for regular meetings, including any supporting documents
for items on the agenda, will be included in the individual legislative body
member’s packet and delivered no later than Friday preceding the regular
scheduled legislative body meeting on the third Monday of each month.
      (2)   If a special meeting is called in accordance with KRS 61.823, the
agenda and written notice of the meeting will be delivered to each member at
least 24 hours in advance of the special meeting. In addition, each member will
be contacted by phone if possible and informed of the meeting and when the
agenda will be delivered. All nonelected city officers (City Clerk-Treasurer,
City Attorney, City Manager, and the like) will be notified of any special
meetings that are scheduled and shall be advised if their presence is
necessary.
      (3)   News media that has requested notification shall be notified of all
meetings as required by statute. Regular and special meetings will be
publicized as prescribed by the state statutes which shall take precedence over
all other guidelines.
   (C)   Format.
      (1)   The regular meeting agenda must include the following sections,
unless they are indicated as “optional.”
         (a)   Opening ceremonies (optional). This can include the pledge of
allegiance and/or invocation. This section may be disregarded if a quorum
clearly is not present.
         (b)   Roll call of attendance. A roll call vote must be taken of all
legislative body members to identify which members are present and which
members are absent.
         (c)   Review of minutes. Reading of the minutes may be dispensed with
by motion and vote. Minutes will not be read in their entirety if they were
distributed to the legislative body members at least 24 hours prior to the
meeting’s scheduled call to order time. Minutes may be amended by the
legislative body if desired.
         (d)   Approval of meeting agenda. The legislative body will review and
approve the agenda, with any agreed upon amendments. Once the agenda is agreed
to, its order can only be changed through suspension of the rules. (See §
35.32 of this subchapter.)
         (e)   Consent calendar (optional). Routine and noncontroversial
matters are placed here. Any individual item that is objected to by a
legislative body member must be moved to the appropriate regular business
heading (reports of officers and committees, unfinished business, or new
business) for further discussion. Consent calendar items are considered as a
whole and without amendment.
         (f)   Reports of officers and committees. The Mayor, appointed city
officials, and legislative body committee representatives may report. Items
suggested for action by the Mayor or appointed city officials may be taken up
at this time, as long as a motion has been made and seconded by members of the
legislative body.
         (g)   Unfinished business. This includes any items that were under
consideration at the time of adjournment of the previous meeting, any
unfinished business from the previous meeting that was not acted upon, and any
items that were postponed to the current meeting.
         (h)   New business. Legislative body members can introduce new items
for consideration such as simple motions, resolutions, orders, and ordinances.
Members may also take from the table any matter that is on the table. As long
as any member claims the floor, the presiding officer may not close the floor
from new business.
         (i)   Legislative body member comments. Legislative body members are
permitted to offer comments or observations about the community and operations
of city business.
         (j)   Open forum (optional). This allows members of the community to
speak about any issue.
         (k)   Announcements. This is for any announcement to the legislative
body or those in attendance.
         (l)   Adjournment. The meeting ends upon adjournment. Adjournment may
happen one of the three following ways.
            1.   A motion may be made to adjourn. Upon approval by a vote of
the legislative body, the presiding officer declares the meeting adjourned.
            2.   A time limit may be set by the legislative body. In this case,
no motion or vote is required to adjourn. Instead, once the time limit has been
reached the presiding officer announces the hour and declares the meeting
adjourned.
            3.   The presiding officer may, on his or her own, declare the
meeting adjourned as long as no business is pending, no legislative body member
is attempting to claim the floor, there are no further announcements, and there
are no objections from the legislative body.
      (2)   Action taken at special meetings is limited to items listed on the
agenda in the notice. The special meeting agenda items must be limited to only
address the specific purpose for which the meeting is called.
(Ord. 2021-01, passed 6-25-2021)
§ 35.32 PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Convening the meeting. 
      (1)   Before the presiding officer calls the meeting to order, it is his
or her duty to determine, although he or she need not announce, that a quorum
is present. If a quorum is not present, the presiding officer waits until a
quorum is present. If a quorum has not been obtained after 15 minutes, the
presiding officer calls the meeting to order, announces the absence of a
quorum, and entertains one of the following motions:
         (a)   Take measures to obtain a quorum;
         (b)   Recess; and
         (c)   Adjourn.
      (2)   Once a quorum is present, the presiding officer proceeds according
to the meeting agenda.
   (B)   Motions.
      (1)   Motions are how business is brought before the legislative body and
are how business is handled. There are five types of motions:
         (a)   Main motions;
         (b)   Subsidiary motions;
         (c)   Privileged motions;
         (d)   Incidental motions; and
         (e)   Motions that bring a question back before the body.
      (2)   The three steps by which motions are normally brought before the
body are as follows:
         (a)   A legislative body member makes the motion. (The member says “I
move to...”; “I move that...”; or “I offer...”);
         (b)   Another member seconds the motion; and
         (c)   The presiding officer states the question on the motion. (This
should not be confused with putting the question, which is to take a vote.)
   (C)   Main motions. A main motion is used to begin consideration of an
issue. A main motion cannot be made while another motion is being considered.
Once it is seconded, it may be debated, amended, adopted, or defeated. All of
the subsidiary, privileged, and incidental motions apply to it.
   (D)   Subsidiary motions. Subsidiary motions assist the legislative body in
treating or disposing of a main motion. Each subsidiary motion outranks, or
takes precedence over, the subsidiary motion(s) listed before it. The
subsidiary motions are as follows.
      (1)   Postpone indefinitely. This motion postpones action on the proposal
indefinitely, effectively killing the motion without actually voting on the
main motion itself. It requires a second, is debatable, is not amendable, and
requires a majority vote.
      (2)   Amend. This motion changes the wording of the main motion (or
subsequent motions) by adding, removing, or replacing text. It must also be
germane to the underlying main motion. It requires a second, is debatable, is
amendable (only one additional level of amendment), and requires a majority
vote.
      (3)   Commit or refer to a committee. This motion refers the main motion,
and any related amend motions to a committee of the legislative body. It
requires a second, is debatable, is amendable, and requires a majority vote.
      (4)   Postpone definitely or to a certain time. This motion postpones
consideration of the main motion and related amend or commit motions to a point
later in the meeting or to the next regular meeting. It requires a second, is
debatable, is amendable, and requires a majority vote.
      (5)   Limit or extend limits of debate. This motion either imposes
stricter time limits on debate or extends the time limits during debate. It
requires a second, is not debatable, is amendable, and requires a two-thirds’
majority vote.
      (6)   Previous question. This motion stops debate and requires an
immediate vote(s). It requires a second, is not debatable, is not amendable,
and requires a two-thirds’ majority vote.
      (7)   Lay on the table. This motion sets aside the main motion and
related subsidiary motions for a more pressing matter. It requires a second, is
not debatable, is not amendable, and requires a majority vote. (See division
(G) below.)
   (E)   Privileged motions. Privileged motions deal with special matters of
immediate importance. Each privileged motion outranks, or takes precedence
over, the privileged motions listed before it and all subsidiary motions. The
privileged motions are as follows.
      (1)   Call for the orders of the day (enforce rules). This motion
requires the body to take up the regular orders if they have strayed from the
agenda. It does not require a second, is not debatable, is not amendable, and
requires a ruling from the presiding officer.
      (2)   Raise and question of privilege. This motion is used when a
pressing situation affects the rights of the legislative body members, such as
if the room is too hot or loud. It does not require a second, is not debatable,
is not amendable, and requires a ruling from the presiding officer.
      (3)   Recess. This motion is used to get a short intermission of the
meeting without calling for adjournment. It requires a second, is not
debatable, is amendable (only the time), and requires a majority vote.
      (4)   Adjourn. This motion is used to end the meeting. It requires a
second, is not debatable, is not amendable, and requires a majority vote.
   (F)   Incidental motions. Incidental motions deal with the main motion or
related motions dealing with procedure. These motions are dispensed with
immediately and do not outrank each other. Some of the valid incidental motions
include the following.
      (1)   Point of order. This motion is used to point out a breach in proper
procedure. The chair must then make a ruling on the point of order, which can
be appealed by the legislative body.
      (2)   Appeal. This motion is used to appeal the ruling of the presiding
officer and put the ruling to a vote. This motion requires a second, is usually
debatable, is not amendable, and requires a majority vote.
      (3)   Suspend the rules. This motion can temporarily suspend some of the
standing rules of the legislative body, such as time limits used in debate or
the order of the agenda. This motion requires a second, is not debatable, is
not amendable, and requires a two-thirds’ majority vote.
      (4)   Parliamentary inquiry. This request asks the presiding officer’s
opinion on a matter of parliamentary procedure as it relates to the business at
hand. The presiding officer replies, but does not officially issue a ruling.
      (5)   Point of information. This request is made to find out facts
affecting the business at hand. It is directed to the chair or, through the
chair, to another member.
      (6)   Request to withdraw or modify a motion. This motion is used to
withdraw or modify a motion. If it has not been stated by the presiding
officer, then the maker may withdraw or modify the motion based on another
member’s request. If the motion has been stated by the presiding officer, it
requires a second if the maker of the original motion makes the request, is not
debatable, is not amendable, and requires a majority vote.
   (G)   Motions to bring a question back. These motions bring a question again
before the legislative body. These motions can usually only be made while no
other business is pending.
      (1)   Take from the table. This motion is used to resume consideration of
an item of business that was laid on the table (when the motion to “lay on the
table” was used earlier in the meeting or at the most recent regular meeting).
This motion requires a second, is not debatable, is not amendable, and requires
a majority vote.
      (2)   Amend something previously adopted or repeal. This motion is used
to repeal or amend something previously adopted. These motions require a
second, are debatable, are amendable, and require a two-thirds’ majority vote
unless notice was given at the previous regular meeting or with the agenda
(then only a majority vote is necessary).
      (3)   Discharge a committee. This motion is used to bring an item that
was previously referred to a committee back before the entire legislative body.
This motion requires a second, is debatable, is amendable, and requires a two-
thirds’ majority vote unless notice was given at the previous regular meeting
or with the agenda (then only a majority vote is necessary).
      (4)   Reconsider. This motion is used to vote again on eligible items of
business that were adopted earlier in the same meeting. Only a legislative body
member who voted with the prevailing side (one who voted “aye” when the motion
carried or voted “no” when the motion failed) may move to reconsider. This
motion requires a second, is not debatable, is not amendable, and requires a
majority vote.
   (H)   Lack of a quorum during a meeting.
      (1)   When a member of the legislative body exits the meeting, the
meeting shall continue in his or her absence if a quorum remains. If a quorum
does not exist, the presiding officer must announce the absence of a quorum and
entertain one of the following motions:
         (a)   Take measures to obtain a quorum;
         (b)   Recess; and
         (c)   Adjourn.
      (2)   If no motions are made at the time a quorum does not exist, the
presiding officer may order a recess of no longer than 15 minutes or declare
the meeting adjourned. If at the end of the recess ordered by the presiding
officer a quorum still does not exist, the presiding officer shall declare the
meeting adjourned.
   (I)   Parliamentary authority. In all cases of meeting procedure not
addressed by state statutes, city ordinance, or this municipal order, the
governing authority shall be the most recent edition of Robert’s Rules of
Order, Newly Revised.
(Ord. 2021-01, passed 6-25-2021)
§ 35.33 MINUTES.
   (A)   Preparation. Minutes will be promptly recorded and will be made
available for public view no later than the first day following the next
legislative body meeting. Minutes will be prepared and recorded in a brief and
specific manner. Votes and formal action taken regarding proclamations,
municipal orders, motions, resolutions, or ordinances must be recorded. Motions
must be entered in their entirety. Proclamations, resolutions, municipal
orders, and ordinances shall be entered by descriptive title and reference.
Ordinances will be assigned identifying numbers only after they have been
approved by the legislative body. Discussions during debates or conversations
are not required to be entered into the minutes.
   (B)   Format. The minutes of the legislative body or committees thereof
should include the following:
      (1)   Type of meeting (regular or special);
      (2)   Day, date, time, and place of meeting;
      (3)   The word “minutes” in the heading;
      (4)   Name of meeting body;
      (5)   Members present, beginning with presiding officer;
      (6)   Members absent;
      (7)   Guests and staff present;
      (8)   Time the presiding officer calls the meeting to order;
      (9)   Presence of a quorum;
      (10)   Action taken on last meeting’s minutes;
      (11)   Committee reports, if applicable;
      (12)   Unfinished business;
      (13)   New business;
      (14)   Adjournment (including day, date, time, and place of next meeting
if announced); and
      (15)   Signature lines for the City Clerk-Treasurer and presiding
officer.
   (C)   Official copy. The official copy of the minutes, which contains all
changes that were made and bears the signatures of individuals required to the
sign the minutes, must be maintained in the minutes book of the city.
(Ord. 2021-01, passed 6-25-2021)
§ 35.34 STANDING RULES.
   (A)   Time limits. The following time limits apply unless suspended pursuant
to this order.
      (1)   Legislative body members are allowed during debate to speak twice
on a particular issue for no longer than three minutes each time. Members may
not yield any unexpired time to another member or reserve such time for him or
her. Time will not be charged to the original speaker if he or she yields to
another member’s question through a point of information.
      (2)   Official reports from non-legislative body members are limited to
ten minutes, exclusive of direct questions asked by the legislative body.
      (3)   Legislative body member comments immediately following new business
or those made while reporting as chairperson from a committee are limited to
five minutes.
      (4)   Public comments during an open forum are limited to three minutes.
      (5)   Announcements just before adjournment are limited to two minutes.
   (B)   Open forum requirements. Members of the public may only publicly
address the legislative body during the open forum of the agenda, if included.
Any member of the public who wishes to address the legislative body during that
time must provide his or her name and address and business or organization he
or she is representing, if any, prior to stating his or her comments.
   (C)   Meeting etiquette.
      (1)   Comments made during debate by members of the legislative body must
be germane to the issue at hand and must never attack or question the motives
of other members.
      (2)   Any individual who, in the opinion of the presiding officer or the
legislative body, becomes abusive, belligerent, profane, or disruptive to the
meeting shall be asked to remain orderly or to leave the meeting. The presiding
officer or legislative body may require that the individual be escorted from
the meeting room if necessary for the orderly conduct of the meeting.
(Ord. 2021-01, passed 6-25-2021)
CHAPTER 36: DEPARTMENTS, BOARDS, AND COMMISSIONS
Section
Police Department
   
36.001   Establishment
   
36.002   Qualifications; oath
   
36.003   Chief of Police
   
36.004   Police officers
   
36.005   Powers and duties; arrest fees and the like
   
36.006   Compensation
   
36.007   Authority to fingerprint and the like
Volunteer Fire Departments
   
36.020   Establishment
   
36.021   Fire Chief; Assistant Fire Chief
   
36.022   Absence of Fire Chief
   
36.023   Bylaws
   
36.024   Ownership and maintenance of buildings, supplies, and equipment
   
36.025   Purchases made through city
   
36.026   Disposition of Department funds
   
36.027   Use of fire whistle
   
36.028   Assistance outside city limits
Street Department
   
36.040   Establishment; supervision by Public Works Director
City-County Riverport Authority
   
36.055   Establishment
   
36.056   Membership
   
36.057   Powers and duties
Board of Adjustments
   
36.070   Establishment
Planning and Zoning Commission
   
36.085   Establishment
Parks and Recreation Board
   
36.100   Definitions
   
36.101   Members
   
36.102   Powers and duties
   
36.103   Finances
POLICE DEPARTMENT
§ 36.001 ESTABLISHMENT.
   There is hereby created and established the Police Department for the city,
confirming and ratifying the previous establishment of such Police Department
by the City Council. The Police Department shall be composed of the Chief of
Police and other such members as may be determined according to law.
(Prior Code, § 35.01) (Ord. 320.1, passed - -; Ord., passed 7-16-2001)
§ 36.002 QUALIFICATIONS; OATH.
   (A)   As set forth in KRS Chapter 67C, to be eligible to be Chief of Police
or a member of the Police Department of the city, a person must be at least 21
years of age, able to read and write the English language intelligibly, and be
of sober and good moral character. No person who has been convicted of a felony
should be eligible for appointment. Any Police Chief appointed or employed
after July 14, 1992, shall be a high school graduate or have received a General
Equivalency Diploma (GED).
(KRS 95.951)
   (B)   Every member of the police force shall take an oath to faithfully
perform the duties of his or her office, and that possesses the required
qualifications.
(KRS Chapters 95 and 95A)
(Prior Code, § 35.02) (Ord. 320.1, passed - -)
Statutory reference:
   Qualifications for police officers, see KRS 95.951
§ 36.003 CHIEF OF POLICE.
   (A)   The creation of the office of Police Chief is hereby established,
confirmed, and ratified.
   (B)   The Police Chief and all police officers shall be appointed by the
Mayor at will, and shall be removed by the Mayor at will.
   (C)   No person shall be appointed or act as Police Chief unless such person
has taken the oath required by the Constitution of the Commonwealth of
Kentucky.
   (D)   The Chief of Police shall, subject to the executive authority of the
city, be responsible for the organization and operation of the Police
Department of the city, and shall supervise, direct, and control the equipment
and personnel thereof as peace officers of the city and state in the
enforcement of all statutes, laws, and ordinances thereof. The Chief of Police
shall also perform any and all other functions and duties required by the
Mayor.
   (E)   Compensation for this office shall be paid at the rate established by
the personnel policy of the city.
(Prior Code, § 35.03) (Ord. 320.1, passed - -; Ord., passed 7-16-2001)
Cross-reference:
   Personnel policy, see §
38.01
§ 36.004 POLICE OFFICERS.
   (A)   The establishment of the office of the city police officer is hereby
confirmed and ratified.
   (B)   The powers and duties of the office of city police officer shall be to
see that peace and good order are preserved at all times and as shall be
further stated and described in the adopted position description for said
position as contained in the classification plan for city employees, or as
otherwise provided by the Mayor.
   (C)   No person shall be appointed or act as a city police officer unless
such person has taken the oath required of the Constitution of the Commonwealth
of Kentucky.
   (D)   The individual holding the position of the city police officer shall
be compensated at a rate established by the personnel policy of the city.
(Prior Code, § 35.04) (Ord. 320.1, passed - -; Ord., passed 7-16-2001)
Cross-reference:
   Personnel policy, see §
38.01
§ 36.005 POWERS AND DUTIES; ARREST FEES AND THE LIKE.
   (A)   The Chief of Police and every member of the Police Department may,
whether directed to them or not, execute warrants of arrest, processes,
subpoenas, and attachments for witnesses. They may arrest as prescribed by law
for offenses against ordinances or municipal regulations of the city, and shall
have the same power of arrest for offenses against the state as a sheriff.
   (B)   The Chief of Police and members of the Police Department shall be
entitled to the same fees, and the same remedies for collecting them, that are
allowed by law to sheriffs and other officers for similar services, but the
City Council hereby directs that the fees be paid into the city treasury for
all members of the Police Department employed on a salary when they receive
such fees.
(KRS Chapters 95 and 95Astatutory) (Prior Code, § 35.05) (Ord. 320.1, passed -
-; Ord. 220.6, passed 3-12-1979)
§ 36.006 COMPENSATION.
   The compensation of the Chief of Police and members of the Police Department
and the manner of payment thereof, shall be fixed from time to time by the City
Council as set forth in §
31.02 of this title, and such compensation or salary so fixed shall be in lieu
of fees.
(Prior Code, § 35.06) (Ord. 320.1, passed - -)
§ 36.007 AUTHORITY TO FINGERPRINT AND THE LIKE.
   It shall be lawful for any police officer of the city to photograph,
fingerprint, and measure any person arrested on any charge. Such photographs,
fingerprints, and measurements shall be in accordance with the system commonly
known as the Bertillion System, or any system adopted or approved by the
Federal Bureau of Investigation. Any photographs, fingerprints, or measurements
so taken shall be used in cooperation with the authorities of other cities,
counties, states, and the federal government in correctly identifying the
accused or to aid in recapturing a prisoner after escape.
(Prior Code, § 35.07) (Ord. 340.1, passed   5-3-1954)
VOLUNTEER FIRE DEPARTMENT
§ 36.020 ESTABLISHMENT.
   A fire department is established in the city, to be known as the City
Volunteer Fire Department.
(Prior Code, § 35.20) (Ord. 02-84, passed 1-10-1984)
§ 36.021 FIRE CHIEF; ASSISTANT FIRE CHIEF.
   (A)   The offices of Fire Chief and Assistant Fire Chief are hereby
established. On or before December 1 of each year, the Fire Department members
shall choose from among their group three names and submit these to the Mayor.
The Mayor shall, upon his or her concurrence with these recommendations,
appoint one of these three as Chief and another as Assistant Chief, said
appointments to be made at the first City Council meeting in January each year
and becoming final upon approval of the Council members present for this
meeting.
      (1)   In the event the Mayor does not concur with the Department
recommendations, he or she may appoint a person of his or her choosing which
would again become final upon approval of the Council.
      (2)   This process also applies to the filling of a vacancy in either
position and should be begun as soon as possible after the vacancy occurs. A
vacancy shall be declared to exist by reason of death, resignation, moving
beyond the city limits, or removal from office. The Fire Chief or Assistant may
be removed from office by the Mayor for neglect of duty, conduct unbecoming a
Fire Chief or Assistant Fire Chief, or other just causes as defined by law.
      (3)   The offices of Fire Chief and Assistant Fire Chief can be filled at
any time by an individual living either inside or outside the city limits. The
fact that a City Fire Chief or City Assistant Fire Chief moves from the city
limits to beyond the city limits does not create a vacancy in either such
office.
   (B)   The Chief of the Fire Department shall have supervision of the Fire
Department and shall be directly responsible to the Mayor for the efficient
operation thereof. The Chief shall be charged with the duties of superintending
the extinguishing of fires. In connection therewith, he or she shall have the
power and duty to keep away from the vicinity of any fire all idle, disorderly,
or suspicious persons; to control and compel all officers of the city and other
persons to aid in the extinguishing of fires and the preservation of property
exposed to danger thereat; and in preventing goods from being stolen. To these
ends, the Chief is granted the powers of a peace officer.
   (C)   The Chief shall keep or cause to be kept a record of the attendance of
the members and a record of all fires; and by the first of each month, the
Chief shall file with the City Clerk-Treasurer a full report of such records,
attendance, and fires.
   (D)   A city sticker will be furnished at no cost as a reimbursement of
expenses to each member firefighter who has attended a minimum of five of the
last 12 regular monthly meetings of the Fire Department.
(Prior Code, § 35.21) (Ord. 02-84, passed 1-10-1984; Ord. 2020.01.02, passed 2-
17-2020; Ord. 2020.02.02, passed 2-17-2020)
§ 36.022 ABSENCE OF FIRE CHIEF.
   (A)   In the absence of the Chief of the Fire Department, the Assistant Fire
Chief shall command the Department and be held responsible therefor in all
aspects, with the full powers and responsibilities of the Chief.
   (B)   The officer of the Fire Department of the highest rank at a fire shall
take command of the Fire Department and direct the management thereof for the
suppression of the fire in the best manner possible.
(Prior Code, § 35.22) (Ord. 02-84, passed 1-10-1984)
§ 36.023 BYLAWS.
   The Fire Department shall formulate a set of bylaws for the Department which
must be approved by the Mayor. However, the following provisions must be
included in the bylaws.
   (A)   All volunteer firefighters are required, when notified, to respond to
alarms of fire and other emergencies.
   (B)   Volunteer firefighters are required to be present at all regular
meetings, call meetings, and schools presented for the benefit of the
firefighters unless a valid excuse is presented.
   (C)   Attendance at a fire shall be counted in lieu of attendance at a
meeting.
   (D)   There shall be one regular meeting each month, which meeting may be a
drill unless a business meeting is needed.
   (E)   Any volunteer firefighter having two unexcused absences in succession,
or three unexcused absences in a period of five months, will be dropped from
the Fire Department rolls.
   (F)   Officers of the Fire Department leaving town for an extended period of
time will be required to notify the Fire Chief.
   (G)   Any volunteer firefighter refusing to attend training classes provided
for him or her will be subject to disciplinary action.
(Prior Code, § 35.23) (Ord. 02-84, passed 1-10-1984)
§ 36.024 OWNERSHIP AND MAINTENANCE OF BUILDINGS, SUPPLIES, AND EQUIPMENT.
   All equipment and buildings are, and shall remain the property of the city
and shall be kept, at the expense of the city, in a state of repair sufficient
to carry out the functions for which they were intended. Any dysfunction or
malfunction shall be reported immediately by the Fire Chief or his or her agent
to the Mayor who shall cause repairs or replacements to be effected as soon as
possible.
(Prior Code, § 35.24) (Ord. 02-84, passed 1-10-1984)
§ 36.025 PURCHASES MADE THROUGH CITY.
   Any purchases of supplies or equipment shall be requested by the Fire Chief
or his or her agent and such purchases shall be made by the purchasing agent of
the city in accordance with §§
33.35 through
33.38 of this title.
(Prior Code, § 35.25) (Ord. 02-84, passed 1-10-1984)
§ 36.026 DISPOSITION OF DEPARTMENT FUNDS.
   (A)   All federal, state, county, and local tax funds intended for the use
of the Fire Department shall be handled exclusively by the City Clerk-Treasurer
who is bonded to handle such funds. The City Clerk- Treasurer is responsible
for accounting for these funds in such a manner as is necessary for auditing
procedures.
   (B)   Any private funds donated to or earned by the Fire Department may be
retained by the Department and used as it may choose.
   (C)   The normal and routine expenses of the Fire Department shall be
budgeted and paid for from the General Fund of the city. However, there is
hereby created a “Fire Department Fund” into which all State Department of
Insurance funds and such other city funds as directed by the Mayor shall be
deposited, which funds shall be used for authorized purchases of Fire
Department equipment.
   (D)   This Fire Equipment Fund shall be a fund of the city and disbursements
and accounting shall be effected in the same manner as with all city funds.
(Prior Code, § 35.26) (Ord. 02-84, passed 1-10-1984)
§ 36.027 USE OF FIRE WHISTLE.
   The fire whistle may be blown as a noon whistle to assure that it is in
proper working order, and as a call to all emergency crews if a fire or
emergency exists. It may be blown for regular drill or business meetings one
short blast only.
(Prior Code, § 35.27) (Ord. 02-84, passed 1-10-1984)
§ 36.028 ASSISTANCE OUTSIDE CITY LIMITS.
   (A)   City firefighting equipment shall remain within the city limits except
that the older truck may assist the County Area Fire Department in a serious
emergency within the immediate vicinity of the city.
   (B)   This assistance may be given only if both trucks are in operating
condition and one truck is available for the protection of the city.
(Prior Code, § 35.28) (Ord. 02-84, passed 1-10-1984)
STREET DEPARTMENT
§ 36.040 ESTABLISHMENT; SUPERVISION BY PUBLIC WORKS DIRECTOR.
   There is hereby established a Street Department of the city, to be
supervised by the Public Works Director, which Department shall be responsible
for all construction, maintenance, and repair of the city’s streets, sidewalks,
alleys, and other public ways.
(Prior Code, § 35.40)
CITY-COUNTY RIVERPORT AUTHORITY
§ 36.055 ESTABLISHMENT.
   There is hereby created and established pursuant to KRS 65.510 et seq. the
Cloverport-Breckinridge County Riverport Authority.
(Prior Code, § 35.50) (Ord. passed 6-16-1970)
§ 36.056 MEMBERSHIP.
   (A)   The Riverport Authority shall be composed of six members, three of
whom shall be appointed by the Mayor and three of whom shall be appointed by
the County Judge. Of the initial appointment, the Mayor and the County Judge
shall each appoint one of the members for a term of two years, one of the
members for a term of three years, and one of the members for a term of four
years. Upon expiration of the staggered terms, their successors shall be
appointed for a term of four years.
   (B)   All members appointed shall reside within the county. Each shall have
knowledge or experience in matters relating to river transportation or
riverport facilities or other experience or expertise as shall be beneficial to
the Authority.
(Prior Code, § 35.51) (Ord. passed 6-16-1970)
§ 36.057 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   The Riverport Authority herein established shall have all the powers,
functions, and duties authorized by KRS 65.510 through 65.650 and in addition
thereto, the city may hereby delegate such other powers to the Riverport
Authority as are necessary and incidental in carrying out its purposes,
operations, and activities.
(Prior Code, § 35.52) (Ord. passed 6-16-1970)
BOARD OF ADJUSTMENTS
§ 36.070 ESTABLISHMENT.
   For provisions concerning the Board of Adjustments, see §
153.117 of this code of ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 35.70)
PLANNING AND ZONING COMMISSION
§ 36.085 ESTABLISHMENT.
   For provisions concerning the Planning and Zoning Commission, see §
153.116 of this code of ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 35.80)
PARKS AND RECREATION BOARD
§ 36.100 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicated or requires a different meaning.
   BOARD. Cloverport Parks and Recreation Board.
   CITY. The city of Cloverport.
(Prior Code, § 35.90) (Ord. passed 12-18-2000)
§ 36.101 MEMBERS.
   The Board shall consist of five members whose term shall be on a calendar
year basis. The members shall be as follows.
   (A)   The Mayor of the city shall, with the approval of the City Council,
appoint five members.
      (1)   One member shall be appointed for a term of one year;
      (2)   One for a term of two years;
      (3)   One for a term of three years; and
      (4)   Two for a term of four years.
      (5)   However, after the first appointments, all subsequent appointments
shall be for a term of four years.
   (B)   Any vacancies which occur shall be filled by the appointing authority
of the vacating member.
(Prior Code, § 35.91) (Ord. passed 12-18-2000)
§ 36.102 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   The Board shall meet, organize, and select one of their members as a
chairperson and such other officers as the Board shall deem necessary.
   (B)   The Board shall have the power to adopt rules and regulations for the
proper conduct of a system of public parks and recreation for the city.
   (C)   The Board shall take charge of, provide, conduct, and supervise
playgrounds, ball parks, and other recreational facilities that it deems
advisable and on such properties and places as are set aside for these
purposes. The Board shall have the power to do all things necessary to carry
out the purposes.
(Prior Code, § 35.92) (Ord. passed 12-18-2000)
§ 36.103 FINANCES.
   (A)   The Board may accept gifts or bequests or other payments, public or
private, to help finance the Board’s activities.
   (B)   The Board shall submit yearly financial reports showing by itemized
detail all receipts and disbursements for the current year. This report shall
be due by July 30 and should contain activities conducted during the previous
fiscal year. Additionally, any budget requests should be submitted to the City
Council by April 1 in order for the request to be incorporated into the budget
for the next financial year. The Board shall make additional reports from time
to time as requested by the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 35.93) (Ord. passed 12-18-2000)
CHAPTER 37: TAXATION
Section
   
37.01   County assessment adopted
   
37.02   Due date; payment
   
37.03   Delinquency
   
37.04   Ad valorem taxes on motor vehicles
   
37.05   Disposition of funds
§ 37.01 COUNTY ASSESSMENT ADOPTED.
   (A)   Pursuant to the authority granted in KRS 132.285, the city hereby
adopts the annual county assessment for all real and personal property situated
within the city as the basis of all ad valorem tax levies ordered or approved
by the City Council.
   (B)   The assessment as finally determined for county tax purposes shall
serve as the basis for all city levies for the fiscal year commencing after the
assessment date.
(Prior Code, § 36.01) (Ord. 221.0, passed 8-9-1982; Ord. 93-9.1, passed 9-13-
1993; Ord. 94-8.1, passed 8-15-1994; Ord. 96-9.1, passed 9-16-1996)
§ 37.02 DUE DATE; PAYMENT.
   (A)   All taxes, except ad valorem taxes on motor vehicles, shall become due
on December 1.
   (B)   Any taxpayer who pays his or her city taxes before December 1 after
they become due shall be entitled to a 2% discount thereon, and the County
Sheriff shall allow the discount and give a receipt in full to the taxpayer.
(Prior Code, § 36.02)
§ 37.03 DELINQUENCY.
   (A)   All city taxes, except ad valorem taxes on motor vehicles, shall
become delinquent on January 1 following their due dates.
   (B)   Any taxes not paid by the date when they become delinquent shall be
subject to a penalty of 6% on the taxes due and unpaid.
   (C)   All real taxes shall be collected by the County Sheriff for a
commission fee of 4% of the amounts collected, as provided under KRS Chapter
134.
(Prior Code, § 36.03) (Ord. 221.0, passed 8-9-1982)
§ 37.04 AD VALOREM TAXES ON MOTOR VEHICLES.
   (A)   All ad valorem taxes on motor vehicles shall be collected by the
County Clerk in accordance with KRS 134.800.
   (B)   Ad valorem taxes on motor vehicles shall become due and delinquent as
set forth in KRS 134.810 and any such taxes not paid by the date when they
become delinquent shall be subject to the penalty and interest specified in KRS
134.810statutory.
(Prior Code, § 36.04)
§ 37.05 DISPOSITION OF FUNDS.
   All moneys collected from the taxes levied in this chapter shall be paid
into the General Fund of the city to be used for the payment of proper
expenditures as determined by the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 36.05)
CHAPTER 38: PERSONNEL POLICIES
Section
   
38.01   Personnel policies and procedures adopted by reference
   
38.02   Blood Borne Pathogen Exposure Control Plan
   
38.03   Expending funds for employee 401K Plan
§ 38.01 PERSONNEL POLICIES AND PROCEDURES ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The personnel policies and procedures adopted by the city and all subsequent
amendments thereto shall be the system of personnel administration for the
city. These personnel policies and procedures and all subsequent amendments are
hereby adopted by reference as fully as if copied herein. A copy of these
personnel policies and procedures and all subsequent amendments shall be
maintained at City Hall for inspection by the public.
(Prior Code, § 37.01) (Ord. passed - -; Ord. 91-12.4, passed 12-11-1991; Ord.
92-10.2, passed 10-14-1992; Ord. 97-06.3, passed 6-23-1997; Ord. passed 6-19-
2000; Ord. passed 6-18-2001; Ord. passed 8-21-2001; Ord. passed 7-16-2001; Ord.
17.8.1, passed 7-28-2017; Ord. 2017-9.1, passed 10-16-2017; Ord. 2020.07.01,
passed 7-20-2020; Ord. 2020.10.09, passed 10-19-2020; Ord.22.10.02, passed 7-
20-2022)
§ 38.02 BLOOD BORNE PATHOGEN EXPOSURE CONTROL PLAN.
   In accordance with the safety regulations promulgated by the Occupational
Health and Safety Act, 29 C.F.R. § 1910.1030, the Blood Borne Pathogen Exposure
Control Plan is hereby adopted by reference as if fully set out herein. A copy
is on file at City Hall.
(Prior Code, § 37.02) (Ord. 92-6.001, passed 6-8-1992)
§ 38.03 EXPENDING FUNDS FOR EMPLOYEE 401K PLAN.
   (A)   The city shall appropriate and expend the sum of $1 per hour for each
hour worked by the employee for the city up to a maximum of $40 per week, for
each full-time employee of the city, toward their 401K Plan, which funds shall
be paid directly into the Kentucky Public Employee’s Deferred Compensation
Authority on behalf of each such employee.
   (B)   A full-time employee of the city shall be considered any employee who
regularly and consistently serves or works for the city 32 hours or more per
week.
(Ord. 2008-02.01, passed 2-18-2008)
CHAPTER 39: CODE OF ETHICS
Section
General Provisions
   
39.01   Enactment
   
39.02   Findings
   
39.03   Purpose
   
39.04   Definitions
Standards of Conduct
   
39.15   Conflicts of interest
   
39.16   Receipt of gifts
   
39.17   Social media
   
39.18   Email
Financial Disclosure
   
39.30   Who must file
   
39.31   When to file statements
   
39.32   Form of the statement of financial interests
   
39.33   Contents of the financial interests statement
Nepotism
   
39.45   Nepotism prohibited
Enforcement
   
39.60   City/County Ethics Commission Created
   
39.61   Powers and duties of the City/County Ethics Commission
 
   
39.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 39.01 ENACTMENT.
   (A)   The County Fiscal Court, the City of Cloverport, and the City of
Irvington have entered into an Interlocal Cooperation Agreement for the purpose
of enacting this chapter relating to the ethics of elected officials,
appointees, and employee of all three entities.
   (B)   This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the “City of
Cloverport, Kentucky Code of Ethics.” It will include ethical considerations
related to the interlocal cooperation agreement in addition to considerations
required to become a certified city of ethics under the Kentucky League of
Cities program.
(Prior Code, § 38.01) (Ord. 94-10.1, passed 10-17-1994; Ord. 2018.11.08, passed
11-19-2018)
§ 39.02 FINDINGS.
   (A)   The County Fiscal Court, and the City Councils of the City of
Cloverport, and the City of Irvington have the authority pursuant to KRS
Chapter 65, to enact this chapter establishing a code of ethics to guide the
conduct of elected and appointed officers and employees of each of these
governmental entities.
   (B)   Public office and employment are a public trust and government has a
duty both to provide their citizens with standards by which they may determine
whether public duties are being faithfully performed, and to apprise their
officers and employees of the behavior which is expected of them while
conducting their public duties.
(Prior Code, § 38.02) (Ord. 94-10.1, passed 10-17-1994)
§ 39.03 PURPOSE.
   It is the purpose of this chapter to provide a method of assuring that
standards of ethical conduct for local government officers and employees shall
be clear, consistent, and uniform in their application, and to provide local
officers and employees with advice and information concerning possible
conflicts of interest which might arise in the conduct of their public duties.
(Prior Code, § 38.03) (Ord. 94-10.1, passed 10-17-1994)
§ 39.04 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUSINESS ASSOCIATE. A corporation, business association, or other business
entity in which the county/city government officer or employee serves as a
compensated agent or representative.
   BUSINESS ORGANIZATION. Any legal entity through which business is conducted
for profit.
   CANDIDATE. Any individual who seeks nomination or election to a county/city
government office.
   CITY BUSINESS. Any discussion of specific city issues that go beyond general
information.
   CITY/COUNTY. Breckinridge County or the City of Cloverport or the City of
Irvington.
   CITY/COUNTY AGENCY. Any board, commission, authority, non-stock corporation,
or other entity formed by the city/county government or a combination of local
governments.
   CITY/COUNTY GOVERNMENT EMPLOYEE. Any person, whether compensated or not,
whether full-time or part-time, employed by or serving the city/county
government, or city/county government agency, but shall not mean any employees
of a school district or school board.
   CITY/COUNTY GOVERNMENT OFFICER.
      (1)   Any person, whether compensated or not, whether full-time or part-
time, who is elected to any county/city government office; or any person who
serves as a member of the governing body of a participating city/county
government agency or special taxing or non-taxing district, including:
         (a)   Mayor;
         (b)   County Judge/Executive;
         (c)   Members of the City Council;
         (d)   Members of the Fiscal Court;
         (e)   County Clerk;
         (f)   Sheriff;
         (g)   Coroner;
         (h)   Surveyor;
         (i)   Constable; and
         (j)   Jailer.
      (2)   Shall not mean any officer of a school district or school board.
   MEMBER OF IMMEDIATE FAMILY. A spouse, an unemancipated child residing in an
individual’s household, or a person claimed by the individual or individual’s
spouse as a dependent for tax purposes.
   RULE OF NECESSITY. The county/city government, agency, or district may make
or enter into a contract in which an officer or employee or members of his or
her immediate family or a business associate has an economic interest if the
nature of the transaction and the nature of the interest is publicly disclosed
on the record prior to the time it is engaged in; and a specific finding is
made by the county/city government, agency, or district and entered on the
official record of the proceedings of the governing body that, notwithstanding
the conflict, it is in the best interests of the local government because of
limited supply, price, or documented emergency.
   SOCIAL MEDIA. The content created by individuals using the internet.
Examples of social media include but are not limited to, Facebook, blogs,
Instagram, YouTube, Twitter, Linkedin, and Flicker.
(Prior Code, § 38.04) (Ord. 94-10.1, passed 10-17-1994; Ord. 2019-03.01, passed
3-18-2019)
STANDARDS OF CONDUCT
§ 39.15 CONFLICTS OF INTEREST.
   Every officer and employee of the city and every city agency shall comply
with the following standards of conduct.
   (A)   No officer or employee, or any family member or any officer or
employee, shall have an interest in a business or engage in any business,
transaction, or activity which is in conflict with the proper discharge of the
officer’s or employee’s public duties.
   (B)   No officer or employee shall intentionally use or attempt to use his
or her official position with the city to secure unwarranted privileges or
advantages for himself or herself, a family member, relative, business
associate, or others.
   (C)   No officer or employee shall intentionally take or fail to take any
discretionary action, or agree to take or fail to take any discretionary
action, or influence or attempt to influence any other officer or employee to
take or fail to take any discretionary action, on any matter before the city in
order to obtain a personal or financial benefit for any of the following:
      (1)   The officer or the employee;
      (2)   A family member or relative;
      (3)   An outside employer or business associate;
      (4)   Any business in which the officer or employee, or any family member
has a financial interest;
      (5)   An outside employer or business of his or hers, or of his or her
family member, or someone who works for such outside employer or business;
      (6)   A customer or client;
      (7)   A substantial debtor or creditor of his or hers, or of his or her
family member;
      (8)   Any business with which the officer or employee or any family
member is negotiating or seeking perspective employment or other business or
professional relationship;
      (9)   A person or entity from whom the officer or employee has received
an election campaign contribution of a total of more than $200 during the past
election cycle; or
      (10)   A non-governmental civic group, social, charitable, or religious
organization of which he or she (or his or her immediate family member) is an
officer or director.
(Prior Code, § 38.10) (Ord. 94-10.1, passed 10-17-1994; Ord. 2018.11.08, passed
11-29-2018)
§ 39.16 RECEIPT OF GIFTS.
   No city/county government officer or employee, member of his or her
immediate family, or business organization in which he or she has an interest,
shall solicit or accept any gift, favor, loan, political contribution, service,
promise of future employment, or other thing of value based upon an
understanding that the gift, favor, loan, contribution, service, promise, or
other thing of value was given or offered for the purpose of influencing him or
her, directly or indirectly, in the discharge of his or her official duties.
(Prior Code, § 38.11)
§ 39.17 SOCIAL MEDIA.
   (A)   City officials, including members of the Council, boards, commissions,
and the like, may maintain a personal presence on social media. However, to be
considered personal, there can be no mention of their status as a city
official. Any mention of their status as a city official potentially changes
the nature of the page, requiring record keeping in accordance with the
Kentucky Department of Library and Archives retention schedule and subjecting
the entire page to open records requests.
   (B)   Elected city officials who want to interact with the community on
social media in their role as city official are required to maintain a separate
account. City officials will notify the City Clerk- Treasurer or the Assistant
Clerk of any official page(s) utilized. The City Clerk-Treasurer and Assistant
Clerk will maintain an updated list of official pages of city officials.
   (C)   City officials shall conduct themselves professionally and as a
representative of the city.
   (D)   Elected city officials pages shall clearly indicate that any content
posted is subject to public disclosure. Additionally, the following guidelines
shall be posted conspicuously on the page.
      (1)   In regard to comments placed on the social media site, the
following guidelines are in force: as a public entity, the city must abide by
certain standards to serve all its constituents in a civil and unbiased manner;
and the city’s social media sites prohibit the posting of content and/or
comments containing any of the following:
         (a)   Comments not topically related to the particular site or blog
article being commented upon;
         (b)   Profane language or content;
         (c)   Content that promotes, fosters, or perpetuates discrimination on
the basis of race, creed, color, age, religion, gender, marital status, status
with regard to public assistance, national origin, physical or mental
disability, or sexual orientation;
         (d)   Sexual content or links to sexual content;
         (e)   Advertisements, solicitations, or phishing;
         (f)   Conduct or encouragement of illegal activity;
         (g)   Information that may compromise the safety or security of the
public;
         (h)   Campaign ads or related content advocating for or against a
candidate for office; or
         (i)   Content that violates a legal ownership interest of any other
party.
      (2)   The city reserves the right to deny access to city’s social media
sites for any individual who violates the city’s social media policy, at any
time and without prior notice.
   (E)   No comments shall be deleted unless in violation of posted guidelines.
Deleted comments shall be provided to City Hall and must be saved for one year.
   (F)   City officials shall not conduct city business through their social
media sites. If receiving a specific request from a citizen, the city official
shall state: “Thank you for your question. Please email me at
cloverpartky@bbtel.com or contact me at 270-788-6632. I look forward to
speaking with you.”
   (G)   Elected officials shall not discuss issues pending before the Council,
boards, or commissions. Elected officials may illicit public input but shall
not respond to comments. Engaging in substantive conversations on social media
could require retention of the posts and may violate the Open Meetings Act,
being KRS 61.805 et seq., if other elected officials are also engaging in the
discussion.
   (H)   City employees are bound by the city’s social media policies in the
city employee handbook.
(Ord. 2019-03.01, passed 3-18-2019)
§ 39.18 EMAIL.
   (A)   City officials choosing to maintain an official email address shall
provide the email address to the City Clerk-Treasurer or Assistant Clerk.
   (B)   No city business shall occur through a personal email account.
   (C)   City officials shall retain emails according to the Kentucky
Department of Library and Archives schedule for emails. City officials shall
direct any record keeping questions to the City Clerk-Treasurer.
(Ord. 2019-03.01, passed 3-18-2019)
FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE
§ 39.30 WHO MUST FILE.
   The following individuals shall be required to file a financial disclosure
statement:
   (A)   Elected officers; and
   (B)   Candidates for city elective offices.
(KRS 65.003) (Prior Code, § 38.20) (Ord. 94-10.1, passed 10-17-1994)
§ 39.31 WHEN TO FILE STATEMENTS.
   A timely, complete, and accurate financial disclosure statement must be
filed with the local Ethics Commission by all filers who are subject to the
jurisdiction of the Commission.
(Prior Code, § 38.21) (Ord. 94-10.1, passed 10-17-1994)
§ 39.32 FORM OF THE STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL STATEMENT.
   The financial disclosure statement shall be on a form provided by the local
Ethics Commission. The financial disclosure statement shall be filed annually
by all elected officers no later than February 1. Candidates, nominees, and/or
appointees shall file their initial statement no later than 21 days after the
date of filing, nomination, or appointment.
(Prior Code, § 38.22) (Ord. 94-10.1, passed 10-17-1994)
§ 39.33 CONTENTS OF THE FINANCIAL INTERESTS STATEMENT.
   The financial disclosure statement should include the following information:
   (A)   Name of filer;
   (B)   Current address (home and work) and business telephone;
   (C)   Title of filer’s public office or office sought;
   (D)   Occupations of filer and spouse;
   (E)   Name, address, and telephone number of each source of income from
within the state of both the filer and spouse which exceeded $10,000 during the
preceding calendar year;
   (F)   Name, address, and telephone number of each business organization
located within the state in which the filer or any member of the filer’s
immediate family had an interest of $10,000 at fair market value or 10%
ownership interest or more during the preceding calendar year;
   (G)   The location and type (commercial, residential, and agricultural) of
all real property within the county, other than the filer’s primary residence,
in which the filer or any members of the filer’s immediate family had an
interest of $10,000 or more during the preceding calendar year; and
   (H)   The name of any creditor owed more than $10,000, except debts arising
from the purchase of consumer goods and services or a primary residence.
(Prior Code, § 38.23) (Ord. 94-10.1, passed 10-17-1994)
NEPOTISM
§ 39.45 NEPOTISM.
   A spouse or child of a city/county officer shall not be initially employed
or appointed to a position in a governmental agency in the same city/county in
which the officer serves unless they are qualified to hold the position.
(Prior Code, § 38.30) (Ord. 94-10.1, passed 10-17-1994)
ENFORCEMENT
§ 39.60 CITY/COUNTY ETHICS COMMISSION CREATED.
   (A)   The City/County Ethics Commission shall consist of five members, none
of whom shall be officers or employees of any local government or governmental
agency. Three members shall be appointed from the county-at-large by the County
Judge/Executive with the approval of the Fiscal Court. One member shall be
appointed from each of the two participating cities within the county by the
Mayor of the city with the approval of their respective City Councils.
   (B)   Terms of office for Commission members shall be two years. Initial
terms will be staggered as follows: two members shall each serve one year; and
the other three members shall each serve two years. Initial terms for each
appointee shall be determined by drawing of lots. No member may serve more than
three consecutive terms.
(Prior Code, § 38.40) (Ord. 94-10.1, passed 10-17-1994)
§ 39.61 POWER AND DUTIES OF THE CITY/COUNTY ETHICS COMMISSION.
   (A)   The City/County Ethics Commission shall have the following powers:
      (1)   To receive and to act as “official custodian” of the filings of
financial disclosure statements required by this chapter and determine, as far
as possible, their timeliness, their completeness, and their accuracy.
Unacceptable filings should be returned to the filer with the reason for their
unacceptability. A request for an extension of the filing deadline may be
granted for justifiable reasons at the discretion of the Ethics Commission;
      (2)   To receive, hear, and review complaints and hold hearings regarding
possible violations of the city/county ethics code. Complaints to the Board
shall be in the form of signed affidavits and may not originate within the
Board itself;
      (3)   To issue subpoenas for the production of documents and the
attendance of witnesses;
      (4)   To forward to appropriate agencies of state and local government
information concerning violations which may be used in criminal or other
proceedings. However, confidentiality of claims and questions under
consideration by the Board should be maintained wherever possible until a
determination has been made in regard to the situation;
      (5)   To render advisory opinions to city/county officers and employees
regarding whether a given set of facts and circumstances constitutes a
violation of any provisions of the city/county code of ethics;
      (6)   To enforce the provisions of the local code of ethics with regard
to local government officers and employees and to impose penalties for
violations as authorized in §
39.99 of this chapter; and
      (7)   To adopt rules and regulations necessary to implement the local
ethics code.
   (B)   The appointed board members shall choose annually one of their number
to serve as chairperson. A secretary may be chosen from among the board members
or from outside the membership.
   (C)   Decisions of the City/County Ethics Commission regarding violations
shall be appealable to the Circuit Court.
(Prior Code, § 38.41) (Ord. 94-10.1, passed 10-17-1994)
§ 39.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   A proven violation, as determined by the Ethics Commission, shall
subject the offender to a civil penalty to be recovered by the city/county in a
civil action in the nature of debt, if the offender does not pay the penalty
within 30 days after the offender has been cited for the offense. Enforcement
of the penalty shall be in accordance with KRS 83A.065(8).
   (B)   Persons found in violation of the standards of conduct as set forth in
this chapter shall be subject to fines ranging from $10 to $250 based on the
severity of the infraction as assessed by the Ethics Commission.
   (C)   Violations which could be subject to criminal penalties shall be
referred by the Ethics Commission to the proper prosecutorial authority.
   (D)   Violations of § 39.31 will result in a fine of $25 for the first
month; then $10 per day up to a maximum of $500.
(Prior Code, §§ 38.21, 38.99) (Ord. 94-10.1, passed 10-17-1994)
CHAPTER 40: PLANS AND POLICIES
Section
   
40.01   Lincoln Trail Regional Hazard Mitigation Plan
§ 40.01 LINCOLN TRAIL REGIONAL HAZARD MITIGATION PLAN.
   The city hereby adopts the Lincoln Trail Regional Hazard Mitigation Plan by
reference. A full copy of the plan can be found in the City Clerk-Treasurer’s
office.
(Res. passed 2-25-2010; Res. 2015.04.02, passed 4-20-2015; Res. 2017.10.1,
passed 11-20-2017)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   WATER AND SEWER REGULATIONS
      
51.   GARBAGE
CHAPTER 50: WATER AND SEWER REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
50.001   Definitions
   
50.002   Applications for water or sewer service
   
50.003   All taps and connections to be made under the authority of the Mayor
   
50.004   Ownership of utility property by city
   
50.005   Grant of easement to city
   
50.006   State law incorporated by reference
Water
   
50.020   Water taps and connections; customer service lines
   
50.021   Right to purchase water; exceptions
   
50.022   Use for domestic consumption
   
50.023   Water for building and construction purposes
   
50.024   Use for public purposes
   
50.025   Boilers and pressure vessels
   
50.026   Connection required
   
50.027   Wellhead protection
   
50.028   Cross-connection prevention program
Sewers
   
50.040   Connection required
   
50.041   New buildings
   
50.042   Outdoor toilets, septic tanks, and the like
   
50.043   Storm water drains
   
50.044   Sewer taps to be made only by city
   
50.045   Property owner required to install suitable toilet facilities
   
50.046   Sewer installation costs to be borne by property owner
   
50.047   Prohibited discharges
   
50.048   Unusual discharges; special treatment
   
50.049   Special or additional meters
Meters
   
50.060   To be read monthly; defective meter
   
50.061   Deposit required by city
   
50.062   Installation and maintenance by city
   
50.063   Tests
Rates and Charges
   
50.075   When special rates may be imposed
   
50.076   Monthly water rates
   
50.077   Monthly sewer rates
   
50.078   Multiple users on one meter
   
50.079   Water and sewer connection charges
   
50.080   Meter deposit charge and service fees
   
50.081   Billing procedure; delinquent payments
Extension of Water and Sewer Lines
   
50.095   City to construct; contract required
   
50.096   Authority of engineers and contractors to use city property
Administration and Enforcement
   
50.110   Discontinuance of service
   
50.111   Interruption of service
   
50.112   Refusal of service
   
50.113   Liability of city
   
50.114   Inspections
   
50.115   Amendment of chapter
   
50.116   Complaint procedure
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 50.001 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CUSTOMER. A property owner or his or her agent who has agreed to purchase
water and/or sewer service from the city.
   SYSTEM. The combined and consolidated water and/or sewer service at the City
Hall. The application, including service received thereunder, is not assignable
by the customer.
(Prior Code, § 50.001) (Ord. 610.3, passed 3-16-1982; Ord. 91-11, passed 11-19-
1991)
§ 50.002 APPLICATIONS FOR WATER OR SEWER SERVICE.
   Each customer must make written application for water and/or sewer service
at the City Hall. The application, including service received thereunder, is
not assignable by the customer.
(Prior Code, § 50.002) (Ord. 610.3, passed 3-16-1982)
§ 50.003 ALL TAPS AND CONNECTIONS TO BE MADE UNDER THE AUTHORITY OF THE MAYOR.
   All taps and connections to the water mains and sewers of the city shall be
made by the authority of the Mayor under the direction and supervision of the
Superintendent.
(Prior Code, § 50.003) (Ord. 610.3, passed 3-16-1982; Ord. 91-11, passed 11-11-
1991)
§ 50.004 OWNERSHIP OF UTILITY PROPERTY BY CITY.
   The city shall own all lines, meters, and other water and sewer equipment
paid for by the city.
(Prior Code, § 50.004) (Ord. 610.3, passed 3-16-1982)
§ 50.005 GRANT OF EASEMENT TO CITY.
   Each customer shall grant or convey, or shall cause to be granted or
conveyed, to the city, a perpetual easement and right-of-way across any
property owned or controlled by the customer whenever the easement or right-of-
way is necessary for the city water or sewer facilities and lines so as to
enable the city to furnish service to the customer.
(Prior Code, § 50.005) (Ord. 610.3, passed 3-16-1982)
§ 50.006 STATE LAW INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE.
   All applicable state laws which now or may hereafter exist is incorporated
herein and made a part of this chapter. The city may use any powers therein
contained, in addition to those herein set out.
(Prior Code, § 50.006) (Ord. 610.3, passed 3-16-1982)
WATER
§ 50.020 WATER TAPS AND CONNECTIONS; CUSTOMER SERVICE LINES.
   (A)   Generally. Whenever the city shall determine that it is feasible to
provide water service to a customer, the city shall install, maintain, and
operate a main distribution pipeline or pipelines from the system’s source of
water supply and shall further install and maintain, at the city’s expense,
such portion of the necessary water service lines as may be needed to bring
water from a water main to the lot or easement line of a customer.
      (1)   However, if the necessary water service line from the water main to
the water meter of a customer is unusually long as determined by the
Superintendent, within guidelines fixed by the city, the customer may be
required to pay a portion of the cost of that service line.
      (2)   The expense borne by the city in any event shall include the
necessary tap, fittings, and shut-off valve, which items shall belong to the
city.
      (3)   Each customer shall install and maintain, at his or her expense,
that portion of the service line from the lot or easement line to his or her
premises, including a stop and waste cock at the end of the house side of his
or her service, which items shall belong to the customer. The minimum earth
cover of the customer’s service shall be 30 inches. The Superintendent shall
determine the size and kind of service to be installed.
   (B)   Customer service lines.
      (1)   Piping on the premises of a customer must be so installed that
connections are conveniently located with respect to the city lines and mains.
The customer shall provide a place for metering which is unobstructed and
accessible at all times. The customer shall furnish and maintain a shut-off
value on his or her side of the meter, and the city will furnish a like valve
on its side of the meter.
      (2)   The customer’s service lines shall be installed and maintained by
the customer at his or her own expense in a safe and efficient manner and in
accordance with the city’s rules and regulations and with the regulations of
the Department of Health.
(Prior Code, § 50.015) (Ord. 610.3, passed 3-16-1982; Ord. 91-11, passed 11-11-
1991) Penalty, see §
10.99
Cross-reference:
   All taps and connections to be made under the authority of the Mayor, see §
50.003
§ 50.021 RIGHT TO PURCHASE WATER; EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   Each customer shall be entitled to purchase from the city, pursuant to
such agreements as may from time to time be provided and required by the city,
such water as the customer may desire, subject, however, to the provisions of
this chapter and to such further rules and regulations as may be prescribed by
the city. Should a customer sell or dispose of a portion of his or her property
or subdivide the same, he or she, or the new owner of each such new tract, may
not demand water and taps without paying connection fees for each such tract to
be served.
   (B)   In the event that the total water supply shall be insufficient to meet
all of the needs of the customers or in the event that there is a shortage of
water, the city may prorate the water available among the various customers on
such basis as is deemed equitable by the city; prescribe a schedule of hours
covering use of water and require adherence thereto; or prohibit the use of
water for specified purposes, for such appropriate period of time as may be
necessary under the circumstances.
(Prior Code, § 50.016) (Ord. 610.3, passed 3-16-1982; Ord. 91-11, passed 11-11-
1991)
Cross-reference:
   Application for service, see §
50.002
   Refusal of service by city, see §
50.112
§ 50.022 USE FOR DOMESTIC CONSUMPTION.
   Water furnished by the city may be used for domestic consumption by the
customer, members of his or her household, and employees only. The customer
shall not sell or give the water to any other person.
(Prior Code, § 50.017) (Ord. 610.3, passed 3-16-1982) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 50.023 WATER FOR BUILDING AND CONSTRUCTION PURPOSES.
   (A)   Water for building or construction purposes will be furnished by meter
measurement only after suitable deposit has been made, the minimum deposit
shall be $10. The amount shall be determined by the city based upon the size of
the construction work contemplated; and all water for building or construction
purposes, as set forth in the permit, must pass through one and the same meter.
   (B)   Water so supplied shall be discharged through a hose or pipe directly
upon the materials to be made wet, or into a barrel or other container, and in
no case upon the ground or into or through a ditch or trench. All use of water
by any party other than the applicant, or use of water for any purpose or upon
any premises not so stated or described in the application, must be prevented
by the applicant, or water service may be discontinued to the applicant without
notice.
(Prior Code, § 50.018) (Ord. 610.3, passed 3-16-1982) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 50.024 USE FOR PUBLIC PURPOSES.
   Special terms and conditions may be made where water is used by the city or
community for public purposes, such as fire extinguishment, or public parks,
and the like.
(Prior Code, § 50.019) (Ord. 610.3, passed 3-16-1982)
§ 50.025 BOILERS AND PRESSURE VESSELS.
   Customers having boilers or pressure vessels receiving a supply of water
from the city must have a check valve on the water supply line and a vacuum
valve on the steam line to prevent collapse in case water supply from the city
is discontinued or interrupted for any reason, with or without notice.
(Prior Code, § 50.020) (Ord. 610.3, passed 3-16-1982) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 50.026 CONNECTION REQUIRED.
   All owners, tenants, and occupants of dwellings, houses, apartments, hotels,
motels, mobile homes, manufactured housing, house trailers, mobile home parks,
trailer camps, manufacturing or commercial establishments, or any other
building of any kind or nature situated on a lot or lots within the city limits
through which any city water line has been or is hereafter installed, or which
abuts upon any street, alley, or easement within the city limits in which there
is hereafter installed a water line or to which property a water line is
extended shall, within 90 days following the date on which the water line is
placed in operation, connect therewith all water usage lines of that dwelling,
house, apartment, hotel, motel, mobile home, manufactured home, house trailer,
mobile home park, trailer camp, manufacturing or commercial establishment, or
other building, with the city water line system, thereby obtaining all water
for use in that building from the city water system. Such connections shall be
made in accordance with such rules and regulations as the city may from time to
time duly establish.
(Prior Code, § 50.021) (Ord. passed 4-10-1989)
§ 50.027 WELLHEAD PROTECTION.
   (A)   Purpose. The City Council deems it appropriate and in the interest of
the public health, safety, and welfare of the citizens to adopt regulations to
prevent contamination of the groundwater that supplies potable water to the
city. An ordinance that allows for the establishment of separate zones of
protection and provides for various protection strategies based upon proximity
to the water supply wells is hereby adopted.
   (B)   Zones. The zones and means of management are described briefly as
follows.
      (1)   A Primary Protection Zone shall be the area within the immediate
vicinity of a water supply well. The use, handling, storage, or discharge of
any hazardous substance whether organic or inorganic shall be restricted or
prohibited within this area.
      (2)   Management Zone One shall be an area composed of the entire city
limits and also may include, upon approval from the appropriate governing
bodies, the area adjacent to and surrounding the Primary Protection Zone. This
area shall be managed by a variety of protection methods depending upon
proximity and degree of hazard to the well field.
      (3)   Management Zone Two shall be an area, beyond Management Zone One,
which may pose less of a threat to the groundwater supply but yet still may
influence the groundwater. This area shall be managed by the implementation of
a public education program to inform residents and business of the need for and
methods of groundwater protection. If more stringent protection is needed,
approval must be given by the appropriate governing body or bodies.
   (C)   Other information. Other information regarding this section and the
areas of protection are on file and are hereby incorporated by reference.
(Prior Code, § 50.022) (Ord. 92.3-2, passed 3-9-1992)
§ 50.028 CROSS-CONNECTION PREVENTION PROGRAM.
   (A)   Purpose and authority.
      (1)   It is the purpose of this section to establish a program to assure
that the public water supply is protected from any auxiliary water supply which
may cause contamination due to backflow or cross-connections. The governing
body recognizes that contamination of the public water supply presents an
imminent health hazard to the residential and non-residential users of the
public water system; the threat of significant economic loss due to disrupted
water service to such residential and nonresidential users and the potential
liability to the city.
      (2)   It is the further purpose of this section to meet the requirements
of 401 KAR 8:020 as enacted by the Kentucky Energy and Environment Cabinet.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      AUXILIARY WATER SUPPLY. Any water supply on or available to the premises
other than the district or city public water supply. These AUXILIARY WATERS may
include water from any natural source, such as a well, spring, river, stream,
or body of water or any water or other substance of unknown or questionable
quality that may present a health or system hazard to the potable public water
supply.
      BACKFLOW. The reversal of the normal flow of water caused by either back
pressure or back siphonage.
      BACKFLOW PREVENTION ASSEMBLY. An assembly or means designed to prevent
backflow. A listing of acceptable BACKFLOW PREVENTION ASSEMBLIES and degree of
hazard is available in the Kentucky State Plumbing Law, regulations and Code.
      CONTAMINATION. An impairment of the quality of the potable water supply
by any waste product, fluid, substance, compound, or other material to a degree
which creates an actual or potential hazard to the public health through the
spread of disease.
      CROSS-CONNECTION. Any physical connection or arrangement of piping or
fixtures between two otherwise separate piping systems one of which contains
potable water and the other non-potable water or substance of questionable
quality, through which, or because of which, backflow may occur into the
potable water system.
      THERMAL EXPANSION TANK. A device installed on the cold water supply line
near a water heater to compensate for the expansion of water within a water
system when such water is heated.
   (C)   Requirements. The district or city shall provide protection to the
public water system against backflow by implementing the following
requirements.
      (1)   Residential. Buildings used for habitation or occupancy shall be
considered as residential buildings. No new water service connection to any
premises shall be installed by the city unless such service connection is
protected by a backflow prevention assembly. Residential service connections
shall be considered as low hazard applications and all such connections shall
have at a minimum a dual check valve backflow preventer installed between the
water meter and the residence. The city may require additional or alternate
backflow prevention assemblies if the degree of hazard constitutes a higher
level of protection for the public water system.
      (2)   Nonresidential. No new water service connection to any
nonresidential facility shall be installed or allowed to be installed by the
city unless such water service connection is protected by a backflow prevention
assembly. The type of protective device required shall be determined at the
time of installation of the service connection and shall be commensurate with
the degree of hazard at the point of such service connection. At a minimum, the
service connection shall be installed with a dual check valve backflow
preventer. In the event activities to occur within a nonresidential facility
change and creates a higher degree of hazard, then the backflow prevention
assembly shall be replaced with an assembly which provides acceptable
protection.
      (3)   Inspections. The customer’s water system shall be open for
inspection at all reasonable times to authorized representatives of the city to
determine whether cross-connections or other structural or sanitary hazards,
including violation of this section exist. When such a condition becomes known,
the city may deny or immediately discontinue service to the premises by
providing a physical break in the service line until the customer has corrected
the condition in conformance with the state and local statutes relating to
plumbing water supplies and the regulations adopted pursuant thereto. Water
service to any premises shall be discontinued if it is found that a backflow
prevention assembly required by this section has been removed, bypassed, or if
an unprotected cross-connection exists on the premises. Service will not be
restored until such conditions or defects are corrected.
      (4)   Existing service connections. All existing water service
connections which do not have backflow prevention assemblies or existing water
service connections which have less than a minimum required backflow prevention
assemblies, shall, except for the inspection requirements, be excluded from the
requirements of this section so long as the city is assured that the public
water system is satisfactorily protected. However, if the district or city
determines that a hazard to health exists, then a backflow prevention assembly
meeting the requirements of this section may be installed on such existing
service connection. Backflow prevention assemblies shall not be installed on
existing service connections until after the property owner of such residential
or commercial property has been informed of the actual and potential hazards
that may be created as a result of such backflow assembly installation. Notices
provided to such property owners shall include the following language as
adopted in 815 KAR 20:120 § 1, Item (6), when cross-connection control devices
are properly installed, they create a closed water system. A properly sized
thermal expansion tank shall be installed in the cold water supply located as
near the water heater as possible.
(Res. 2015-01.01, passed 10-19-2015)
SEWERS
§ 50.040 CONNECTION REQUIRED.
   (A)   All owners, tenants, and occupants of dwellings, houses, apartments,
hotels, motels, mobile homes, manufactured housing, house trailers, mobile home
parks, trailer camps, manufacturing or commercial establishments, or any other
building of any kind or nature situated on a lot or lots within the city limits
through which any sewage collection line has been or is hereafter installed, or
which abuts upon any street, alley, or easement within the city limits in which
there is hereafter installed a sewage collection line or to which property a
sewage collection line is extended shall, within 90 days following the date on
which the sewage collection line is placed in operation, connect therewith all
sanitary sewage drain pipes of that dwelling, house, apartment, hotel, motel,
mobile home, manufactured home, house trailer, mobile home park, trailer camp,
manufacturing or commercial establishment, or other building, with the sanitary
sewage collection line, conveying thereby all of the sewage therefrom into the
sewer system. Such connections shall be made in accordance with such rules and
regulations as the city may from time to time duly establish.
   (B)   Each owner, tenant, or occupant of similar property outside the city
limits who is connected to the city water system and receives water service
from the city shall, within 90 days following the date on which the city sends
written notice to that party that a city sewage collection line is available to
such property, connect the property to the sewage collection line in accordance
with those rules and regulations as the city may from time to time duly
establish; and the city shall disconnect the water supply to any owner, tenant,
or occupant failing to make such a connection.
   (C)   All sewer connections required in this section shall be made under
such regulations as the city may establish. Failure to effect such a required
connection is hereby declared to be unlawful and shall constitute a nuisance.
(Prior Code, § 50.030) (Ord. 610.3, passed 3-16-1982) Penalty, see §
10.99
Cross-reference:
   All taps and connections to be made under the authority of the Mayor, see §
50.003
§ 50.041 NEW BUILDINGS.
   (A)   All architects, contractors, builders, or other persons, before
commencing the erection of any building or other improvement capable of
emitting liquid wastes or sewage on any lot or parcel of land abutting on a
street, alley, or easement in which there may be hereafter installed and
maintained any such sewage collection line, or on any lot or parcel of land
through which there may be hereafter installed a sewage collection line, or to
which a sewage collection line is made available, shall before erecting or
installing such building or improvement, exhibit to the appropriate city
official satisfactory evidence that a means has been provided or will be
provided for connecting the sanitary sewage drain pipes from that building or
other improvement with the sewer collection line.
   (B)   No storm water or other surface or sub-surface water drain shall be
connected with any sanitary sewer line hereafter constructed, nor shall any
storm water, surface, or sub-surface water be otherwise introduced into any
sanitary sewage collection line.
(Prior Code, § 50.031) (Ord. 610.3, passed 3-16-1982) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 50.042 OUTDOOR TOILETS, SEPTIC TANKS, AND THE LIKE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to construct, maintain, or permit
to be constructed or maintained any outdoor toilet, privy, vault, cesspool,
septic tank, or other similar contrivance for the reception of sewage on any
lands owned by that person or under his or her control, which abut upon a
sewage collection line in any public street, alley, or other easement, or
through which a sewage collection line passes or to which a sewage collection
line is hereafter available. All such outdoor toilets or privies shall be
removed, and all such vaults, cesspools, septic tanks, or other similar
contrivances for the reception of sewage shall be closed or filled or otherwise
removed from the properties described above within 90 days after sewage
collection service becomes available.
   (B)   All privies, surface toilets, or other means of casting or depositing
sewage into a container above or below the surface of the ground, upon or into
the soil or into any running or percolating stream of water, or into any
cistern or well whereby the soil or any surface or sub-surface waters is
contaminated with such sewage are hereby declared to constitute a public
nuisance and their use or maintenance for a period of more than 90 days
following the availability of a sewage collection line to the property is
hereby prohibited.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person to construct or maintain a privy,
well, vault, cesspool, cistern, septic tank, or similar contrivance for the
reception of flowable sewage where sewers are available, and all such privies,
wells, vaults, cesspools, cisterns, septic tanks, facilities, and similar
contrivances shall be removed or disconnected by the owners and the occupants
of premises to which sewers are made available in the city as soon as the same
are made available to such premises. All privies, facilities, and other means
of casting or depositing sewage into a container above or below the surface of
the ground, upon or into the soil or into any running or percolating stream of
water, or into any cistern or well, whereby the soil is contaminated with such
sewage, are hereby declared to be unlawful and to constitute a nuisance.
(Prior Code, § 50.032) (Ord. 610.3, passed 3-16-1982) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 50.043 STORM WATER DRAINS.
   No storm water drain shall be or remain connected, or be connected with, any
separate sanitary sewer heretofore or hereafter constructed as, or made a part
of, the sewer system of the city, nor shall any storm water be otherwise
introduced into any such separate sanitary sewer.
(Prior Code, § 50.033) (Ord. 610.3, passed 3-16-1982) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 50.044 SEWER TAPS TO BE MADE ONLY BY CITY.
   No sewer tap (such as, breaking or entering into sewer lines of the city)
shall be made by any person, firm, or corporation except the city. The city
will, upon application to the city as required by §
50.002 of this chapter and payment of the tapping or connection fee as set
forth in §
50.079 of this chapter, tap the city sewer and run a lateral to the property
line of any applicant where sewers are available. Any and all installations or
attachments thereto shall be made by the applicant under the direction and
supervision of the city; however, nothing herein shall be construed as
requiring the city to furnish a sewer connection or provide sewer service to
any premises where a city sewer is not available at the time the application is
made.
(Prior Code, § 50.034) (Ord. 610.3, passed 3-16-1982) Penalty, see §
10.99
Cross-reference:
   All taps and connections to be made under the authority of the Mayor, see §
50.003
§ 50.045 PROPERTY OWNER REQUIRED TO INSTALL SUITABLE TOILET FACILITIES.
   Each owner of a house, building, or property used for human occupancy,
employment, recreation, or other purposes, situated within the city and to
which sewer service is made available by the city, is hereby required, at his
or her expense, to install suitable toilet facilities therein and to connect
such facilities directly with the available public sewer in accordance with the
requirements of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 50.035) (Ord. 610.3, passed 3-16-1982) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 50.046 SEWER INSTALLATION COST TO BE BORNE BY PROPERTY OWNER.
   All costs and expenses incident to the installation and connection of a
building sewer shall be borne by the owner, who shall indemnify the city from
any loss or damage that may directly or indirectly be occasioned by the
installation of the building sewer. All connections shall be made under the
supervision of the Superintendent or other duly authorized official of the
city.
(Prior Code, § 50.036) (Ord. 610.3, passed 3-16-1982; Ord. 91-11, passed 11-11-
1991) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 50.047 PROHIBITED DISCHARGES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, deposit, or permit to be
deposited in any unsanitary manner upon public or private property within the
city, any garbage or other objectionable waste, or to discharge to any natural
outlet within the city, any sewage, industrial wastes, or other polluted
waters, except where suitable treatment has been provided under the supervision
of the Superintendent or other duly authorized city official.
   (B)   No substance shall be placed or discharged into the city sewer system
which will create a combustible, gaseous, explosive, or inflammable condition
in the system, nor shall any substance or object be placed or discharged into
the city sewer system which will not dissolve and which will thus cause an
obstruction and clogging within the system. No petroleum products shall be
placed or discharged into the city sewer system.
(Prior Code, § 50.037) (Ord. 610.3, passed 3-16-1982; Ord. 91-11, passed 11-11-
1991) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 50.048 UNUSUAL DISCHARGES; SPECIAL TREATMENT.
   In the event sewage, water, or other liquid waste being discharged into the
city sewer facilities from any building or premises contains unduly high
concentrates of any substances which add to the operating costs of the city
sewer facilities, special rates, rentals, or charges may be established,
charged, and collected as to that building or premises, or the owner or other
interested party may be required to specially treat the sewage, water, or other
liquid waste before it is discharged into the city sewer facilities.
(Prior Code, § 50.038) (Ord. 610.3, passed 3-16-1982) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 50.049 SPECIAL OR ADDITIONAL METERS.
   (A)   In the event that a building or premises discharging sewage, water, or
other wastes into the city sewer facilities uses water supplied on other than a
metered basis from either a private or public water supply, the owner or
occupant may be required to cause a water meter or other measuring device to be
installed which would be acceptable to the Superintendent.
   (B)   In the event any building or premises uses water in excess of 10,000
gallons per month as shown by the water meter readings for two consecutive
months, and it can be shown that a substantial portion of the water as so
measured does not and cannot enter the city sewer facilities, the
Superintendent may determine, in such manner as may be found practical, the
amount of water entering the sewers. In such an event the sewer rate or charge
shall be based thereon, or the Superintendent may require or permit the
installation of additional meters or measuring devices in such a manner as to
determine the quantity of water or sewage actually entering the city sewer
facilities, in which case the sewer rate or charge shall be based thereon.
(Prior Code, § 50.039) (Ord. 610.3, passed 3-16-1982; Ord. 91-11, passed 11-11-
1991) Penalty §
10.99
METERS
§ 50.060 TO BE READ MONTHLY; DEFECTIVE METER.
   (A)   Meters shall be read monthly.
   (B)   Where a meter has ceased to register, or a meter reading cannot be
obtained, the quantity of water consumed will be based upon an average of the
prior six months’ consumption, considering the conditions of water service
prevailing during the period in which the meter fails to register.
(Prior Code, § 50.050) (Ord. 610.3, passed 3-16-1982)
§ 50.061 DEPOSIT REQUIRED BY CITY.
   The city hereby requires that a meter deposit as specified in §
50.080 of this chapter be placed on deposit with the city by the customer for
the purpose of establishing or maintaining the customer’s credit as an
assurance of the payment of water and/or sewer bills by the customer.
(Prior Code, § 50.051) (Ord. 610.3, passed 3-16-1982; Ord. 91-11, passed 11-11-
1991)
§ 50.062 INSTALLATION AND MAINTENANCE BY CITY.
   All meters shall be installed, renewed, and maintained at the expense of the
city, and the city reserves the right to determine the size and type of meter
used.
(Prior Code, § 50.052) (Ord. 610.3, passed 3-16-1982)
§ 50.063 TESTS.
   Upon the written request of any customer, the meter serving that customer
shall be tested by the city. The test will be made without charge to the
customer if the meter has not been tested within 12 months preceding the
requested tests; otherwise, a charge of $3 will be made and then only if the
test indicates meter accuracy within the limits of 2%. If a meter is inaccurate
in excess of 2%, adjustments shall be made for the two preceding months prior
to the test according to the inaccuracy in excess of 2%.
(Prior Code, § 50.053) (Ord. 610.3, passed 3-16-1982)
RATES AND CHARGES
§ 50.075 WHEN SPECIAL RATES MAY BE IMPOSED.
   Whenever it is determined by the Superintendent that it is necessary to
classify any commercial institution or industry by reason of the unusual
purpose for which water is used, or by reason of the character of the sewage,
water, or other liquid wastes discharged therefrom, or whenever the established
schedules of rates and charges for any reason are not applicable, then special
rates or other charges may be established by the City Council. Any person,
firm, or corporation who is dissatisfied with the established schedules or
rates and charges by reason of the peculiar or unusual use or occupancy of any
premises, and consequently alleging peculiar or unusual uses of water, may file
an application with the city for “special classification” rates and charges.
(Prior Code, § 50.065) (Ord. 610.3, passed 3-16-1982)
§ 50.076 MONTHLY WATER RATES.
   (A)   The monthly rates and charges for water service furnished by the city
shall be as follows.
      (1)   (a)   Generally. Rates or charges for water shall be a basic water
rate of $1.09 per month.
         (b)   Minimum water rate. The minimum water bill shall be $25.25 per
month, and each water customer shall be entitled to 2,000 gallons (or less) of
water in each month for such minimum charge.
      (2)   Water rates for water usage in addition to the minimum charge.
Subject to the minimum monthly water rate specified above, the following
metered charges shall be made for each 1,000 gallons of water consumption per
month of all size connections.
 
Number of Gallons of Water per Month Monthly Charge
   Inside City
First 2,000 (or less)                $25.25 minimum
All above 2,000 gallons              $7 per 1,000 gallons
   Outside City
First 2,000 (or less)                $31.56 minimum
All above 2,000 gallons              $8.75 per 1,000 gallons
 
   (B)   The foregoing monthly water rates, exclusive of the minimum rate of
$25.25 for the first 2,000 gallons or less of water per month, shall be applied
in increments of 100 gallons or less of water per month. Thus, if a customer
uses more than 2,000 gallons but no more than 2,100 gallons of water in any
month, the bill to that customer for that month will be $25.95, consisting of
the minimum bill of $25.25 for the first 2,000 gallons, plus $0.70 for the next
100 gallons or less of water consumed in that month.
(Prior Code, § 50.066) (Ord. passed 10-15-1985; Ord. 91-5, passed 12-11-1991;
Ord. 94.3-3, passed 4-11-1994; Ord. 2005.3-1, passed 3-24-2005; Ord. 3010-
03.02, passed - -2010; Ord. 2012-12.01, passed 12-17-2012; Ord. 2018.08.03,
passed 8-27-2018; Ord. 2023.07.02, passed 7-17-2023)
§ 50.077 MONTHLY SEWER RATES.
   (A)   Generally. Rates or charges for sewer service shall be a basic sewer
rate of $8 per month, plus a sewage treatment fee based, insofar as possible,
upon the quantity of water supplied to the respective building or premises, as
set forth in this section.
   (B)   Minimum sewer rate. The minimum monthly bill for sewer service shall
be $17 (a basic sewer rate of $8, plus a sewage treatment fee of $9), and each
sewer customer shall be entitled in each month to discharge waste water into
the municipal sewer system based upon water usage of 2,000 gallons or less for
the minimum sewer charge of $17.
   (C)   Sewer rates based on meter water usage, in addition to minimum charge.
Subject to the minimum monthly sewer rate specified above, the following sewer
charges shall be made for each 1,000 gallons of water discharged into the city
sewer system, based on the metered water usage set forth as follows.
 
Number of Gallons of Water Usage per Month Monthly Charge per 1,000 Gallons
First 2,000 or less                        $12.60 (minimum monthly charge)
All over 2,000                             $3.30
 
   (D)   Effective date. Said rates shall become effective and shall be
reflected on the billing statements with the May 1, 2005, billing.
(Prior Code, § 50.067) (Ord. passed 10-15-1985; Ord. 91-5, passed 12-11-1991;
Ord. 94.3-3, passed 4-11-1994; Ord. 2005.3-1, passed 3-24-2005; Ord.
2023.07.03, passed 7-17-2023)
§ 50.078 MULTIPLE USERS ON ONE METER.
   Where two or more tenants or occupants of different rental units or
property, including duplexes, apartment houses, mobile home parks, trailer
parks, or other multi-unit premises, are served by a single water meter, the
water and sewer rates and charges to each tenant or occupant shall be computed
by dividing the number of gallons of water registered by the single meter by
the number of customers being served through the meter and then applying the
result thus obtained to the water and sewer rate schedules set out in §
50.077 of this subchapter, to arrive at the monthly bill for each tenant or
occupant. Each tenant or occupant shall be separately billed unless the owner
or operator of the property has agreed with the city to pay the total monthly
water and sewer bill for that property. In no event shall the monthly bill
applicable to each tenant or occupant by less than the minimum water and sewer
rates stipulated in §
50.077 of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 50.068) (Ord. passed 10-15-1985)
§ 50.079 WATER AND SEWER CONNECTION CHARGES.
   (A)   The waterworks connection charge shall be $1,200 for all size
connections within the city and $1,500 for all size connections outside the
city limits of the city.
   (B)   The sewer connection charge shall be $700 for all size connections
within the city and $1,200 for all size connections outside the city limits of
the city.
   (C)   Additional fees will be assessed for all water or sewer connections
which involve the disturbance of any city, state, or federal roadways.
   (D)   Additional charges may be assumed, when necessary, to cover the cost
of road bores when connection lines must go under streets or highways.
(Prior Code, § 50.069) (Ord. passed 10-15-1985; Ord. passed 4-10-1989; Ord.
2009-11.02, passed 11-23-2009; Ord. 2022.09.03, passed 9-19-2022)
§ 50.080 METER DEPOSIT CHARGE AND SERVICE FEES.
   In addition to the connection charges set forth in this subchapter, all
customers except resident property owners shall pay a meter deposit of $50 to
the city for water service before such customers shall be entitled to service.
Such deposits, less any unpaid charges, shall be refunded to the customer, his
or her heir or assigns, whenever the customer notifies the city legally to
disconnect or terminate service to that customer. No meter deposit shall be
required of resident property owners. The meter service fee shall be $75.
(Prior Code, § 50.070) (Ord. passed 10-15-1985; Ord. 2022.09.01, passed 9-19-
2022)
Cross-reference:
   Authority of city to impose, see §
50.061
§ 50.081 BILLING PROCEDURE; DELINQUENT PAYMENTS.
   (A)   The water and sewer rates or changes set forth in this subchapter
shall be billed monthly on statements which shall be issued on or about the
first day of each month, and all bills for such services shall be considered
due and payable ten days after the date of issue thereof. If a bill is not paid
within ten days after such date of issue, the bill shall be considered
delinquent, and there shall be imposed a penalty on each bill not so paid in an
amount equal to 15% of the charges (other than sales tax) shown on the face
amount of the delinquent bill.
   (B)   It is the policy of the city to discontinue utility service to
customers by reason of nonpayment of bills only after notice and a meaningful
opportunity to be heard on disputed bills. The city’s form for application for
utility service and all bills shall contain, in addition to the title, address,
room number, and telephone number of the official in charge of billing, clearly
visible and easily readable provisions to the effect:
      (1)   That all bills are due and payable on or before the date set forth
on the bill;
      (2)   That if any bill is not paid by or before that date, a second bill
will be mailed containing a cutoff notice that if the bill is not paid within
ten days of the mailing of the second bill, service will be discontinued for
nonpayment; and
      (3)   That any customer disputing the correctness of his or her bill
shall have a right to a hearing at which time he or she may be represented in
person and by counsel or any other person of his or her choosing and may
present orally or in writing his complaint and contentions to the city official
in charge of utility billing. This official shall be authorized to order that
the customer’s service not be discontinued and shall have the authority to make
a final determination of the customer’s complaint.
   (C)   (1)   Requests for delays or waiver of payment will not be
entertained; only questions of proper and correct billing will be considered.
      (2)   In the absence of payment of the bill rendered or resort to the
hearing procedure provided herein, service will be discontinued at the time
specified, but in no event until the charges have been due and unpaid for at
least 30 days.
   (D)   (1)   If water service is disconnected by the city by reason of a
delinquency in the payment of any water or sewer bill, a reconnection of such
service shall not be made until the owner or user pays all delinquent charges
and penalties owed, plus the amount of $50 as a disconnection and reconnection
charge.
      (2)   If any deadline as to any such payments falls on a Sunday or a
legal holiday, the deadline shall not expire until the next regular business
day thereafter. The reconnection fee for a reconnection of city water service
on the same day that the water service was disconnected is $75.
   (E)   All billings for water, sewer, and garbage, as well as space rentals
at the city trailer park shall:
      (1)   Remain in the name of the owner;
      (2)   Be sent to the owner; and
      (3)   Payment shall be the responsibility of the owner.
(Prior Code, § 50.071) (Ord. 9.83, passed 9-12-1983; Ord. passed 10-15-1985;
Ord. 2018.08.07, passed 9-10-2018; Ord. 2022.09.02, passed 9-19-2022)
EXTENSION OF WATER AND SEWER LINES
§ 50.095 CITY TO CONSTRUCT; CONTRACT REQUIRED.
   (A)   The city shall construct extensions to its water and sewer lines to
points within its service area, but the city is not required to make any such
installation unless the customer pays to the city the entire cost of the
installation.
   (B)   All line extensions shall be evidenced by a contract signed by the
city and the person advancing funds for the extension, but each contract shall
be null and void unless approved by the Farmers Home Administration and other
governing bodies.
   (C)   If a refund of the advance is to be made, the following methods shall
apply: the refund shall be in an amount equal to 20% of the total gross revenue
of water sales per year for each service connected to the new extension
prescribed in the agreement, for a period not to exceed five years, provided
the aggregate payments do not exceed the total amount deposited. No refund
shall be made from any revenue received from any lines leading up to or beyond
the particular line extension covered by contract.
   (D)   All decisions in connection with the manner of installation of any
extension or the maintenance thereof shall remain in the exclusive control of
the city; the extension shall be the property of the city; and no other person
shall have any right, title or interest therein.
(Prior Code, § 50.080) (Ord. 610.3, passed 3-16-1982)
§ 50.096 AUTHORITY OF ENGINEERS AND CONTRACTORS TO USE CITY PROPERTY.
   (A)   Any engineer or contractor employed by the city, or any agent of such
an engineer or contractor, shall notify an authorized agent of the city when it
becomes necessary for the engineer or contractor to make use of any city
property, street, alley, or other right-of-way within the city limits owned or
controlled by the city during the planning and construction of the project to
improve and extend the city’s present sewer system.
      (1)   Upon receiving the notice mentioned in division (A) above, the
authorized agent of the city shall grant permission for the engineer or
contractor to use the city property, street, alley, or other right-of-way as
long as the use is in the furtherance of the above-mentioned project.
      (2)   For the purposes of this division, the City Clerk-Treasurer and the
Mayor shall be considered authorized agents of the city.
   (B)   Any engineer or contractor employed by the city, or any agent of such
an engineer or contractor, shall notify an authorized agent of the city when it
becomes necessary for the engineer or contractor to make use of any city
property, street, alley, or other right-of-way within the city limits owned or
controlled by the city during the planning and construction of the project to
improve and extend the city’s present sewer system.
      (1)   Upon receiving the notice mentioned in this division (B), the
authorized agent of the city shall grant permission for the engineer or
contractor to use the city property, street, alley, or other right-of-way as
long as the use is in the furtherance of the above-mentioned project.
      (2)   For the purposes of this division, the City Clerk-Treasurer and the
Mayor shall be considered authorized agents of the city.
(Prior Code, § 50.081) (Ord. 84-06, passed 10-8-1984; Ord. 620.4, passed 10-8-
1984)
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 50.110 DISCONTINUANCE OF SERVICE.
   (A)   Water service may be discontinued as set forth in §
50.081 of this chapter, for any violation of any rule, regulation, or condition
of service and especially for any of the following reasons:
      (1)   Misrepresentation in the application or contract as to the property
or fixtures to be supplied, or as to additional use of water or sewer service,
or as to unusual or extraordinary use of sewer facilities;
      (2)   Failure to report to the city, additions to the property or
fixtures to be supplied, or of additional use of water or sewer service;
      (3)   Resale or giving away of water;
      (4)   Waste or misuse of water due to improper or imperfect service pipes
or failure to keep these in a suitable state of repair;
      (5)   Tampering with any meter, meter seal, service, or valve, or
permitting such tampering by others;
      (6)   Connection, cross-connection, or permitting the same of any
separate water supply to premises which receive water from the city; or
      (7)   Nonpayment of bills.
   (B)   Any customer desiring to discontinue the water or sewer service to his
or her premises for any reason must give notice of discontinuance in writing at
the City Hall; otherwise, a customer shall remain liable for all water used and
all water or sewer service rendered to that premises by the city unless such
notice is received by the city.
(Prior Code, § 50.090) (Ord. 610.3, passed 3-16-1982)
§ 50.111 INTERRUPTION OF SERVICE.
   The city shall make all reasonable efforts to eliminate interruption of
service and when such interruptions occur, will endeavor to re-establish
service with the shortest possible delay. When the service is interrupted, all
customers affected by the interruption will be notified in advance whenever
possible.
(Prior Code, § 50.091) (Ord. 610.3, passed 3-16-1982)
§ 50.112 REFUSAL OF SERVICE.
   The city may refuse service to any person, not presently a customer, when in
the opinion of the city the capacity of the facilities will not permit such
service.
(Prior Code, § 50.092) (Ord. 610. 3, passed 3-16-1982)
§ 50.113 LIABILITY OF CITY.
   (A)   The city shall in no event be held responsible for any claim made
against it by reason of the breaking of any mains or service pipes, or by
reason of any other interruption of the supply of water caused by the failure
or breakage of machinery or stoppage for necessary repairs. No person shall be
entitled to damages nor for any portion of a payment refunded for any
interruption of service which in the opinion of the city may be deemed
necessary.
   (B)   If any loss or damage to the property of the city or any accident or
other injury to persons or property is caused by or results from the negligence
or wrongful action of the customer, a member of his or her household, or his or
her agent or employee, the cost of the necessary repairs or replacements shall
be paid by the customer to the city, any liability otherwise resulting shall be
that of the customer.
(Prior Code, § 50.093) (Ord. 610.3, passed 3-16-1982)
§ 50.114 INSPECTIONS.
   The premises receiving a supply of water and all service lines, meters, and
fixtures, including any fixtures within that premises, shall at all reasonable
hours be subject to inspection by duly-authorized employees of the city.
(Prior Code, § 50.094) (Ord. 610.3, passed 3-16-1982)
§ 50.115 AMENDMENT OF CHAPTER.
   (A)   The rules and regulations set forth in this chapter may be changed or
amended subject to the limitations set forth in division (B).
   (B)   This chapter shall not be amended without the permission of the
holders of a majority (in amount) of outstanding bonds of the city, plus the
permission of the Farmers Home Administration, United States Department of
Agriculture, so long as the United States is the owner or insurer of any bonds
issued by the city and so long as any of the bonds remain unpaid.
(Prior Code, § 50.095) (Ord. 610.3, passed 3-16-1982)
§ 50.116 COMPLAINT PROCEDURE.
   Complaints may be made to the Mayor whose decision may be appealed to the
City Council within ten days; otherwise, the Mayor’s decision will be final.
(Prior Code, § 50.096)
CHAPTER 51: GARBAGE
Section
   
51.01   Definitions
   
51.02   Private garbage collection prohibited
   
51.03   Rates
   
51.04   Garbage collection regulations
   
51.05   Nuisance conditions regulated
   
51.06   Enforcement
 
   
51.99   Penalty
§ 51.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   OFFICIAL GARBAGE BAGS. The specially marked plastic bags as sold by the city
for the specific purpose of garbage disposal, the fee for which is included in
§
51.03 of this chapter.
   PRIVATE SCAVENGER. One who for hire, collects, removes, or disposes of
garbage or refuse.
   REFUSE or GARBAGE. All sweepings, cleanings, trash, rubbish, litter,
garbage, industrial, and domestic wastes; organic wastes or residue of animals
sold as meat, fruit, or other vegetable matter from kitchens, dining rooms,
markets, or places dealing in the handling of meats, fowl, fruits, grain, or
vegetables; offal, animal excretia, the carcass of animals, and accumulated
waste materials or substances which may become nuisances, some of which are
more particularly classified as follows.
      (1)   PREPARED GARBAGE. Waste materials from kitchens, dining rooms, and
similar places, from which liquids have been drained.
      (2)   TRASH. Waste material containing no putrid matter or organic
wastes.
   REFUSE OR GARBAGE COLLECTION. The gathering of refuse or garbage that has
been placed in official garbage bags and their containers from the premises of
improved property, loading contents into removal vehicles and returning
containers to place where found after plastic bags have been removed, for which
the charge is made as provided for in §
51.03 of this chapter.
   REFUSE OR GARBAGE CONTAINER. Standard containers for the storage of refuse
or garbage shall be official plastic bags as purchased at City Hall which must
be placed in metal or plastic cans or other protective containers.
   REFUSE OR GARBAGE DISPOSAL. The disposal of refuse or garbage in accordance
with rules and regulations promulgated by the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 51.01) (Ord. 93-1.1, passed 2-8-1993)
§ 51.02 PRIVATE GARBAGE COLLECTION PROHIBITED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation, except the
city, to engage in or conduct the business of collection, removal, or disposal
of refuse or garbage within the corporate limits of the city. All residents and
places of business within the city shall have their garbage and refuse
collected and disposed of by the city.
   (B)   The Mayor or his or her designee may, with the approval of Council,
promulgate and enforce any and all reasonable rules and regulations deemed
necessary or proper from time to time to carry out the objects and purposes of
this chapter and for the health and welfare of the citizens of the city with
respect to the collection, removal, and disposal of garbage and refuse as
defined in §
51.01 of this chapter.
   (C)   Private scavengers, push cart operators, and private garbage
collectors are hereby prohibited from engaging in the business of transporting
or disposing of garbage or refuse.
(Prior Code, § 51.02) (Ord. 93-1.1, passed 2-8-1993) Penalty see §
51.99
§ 51.03 RATES.
   (A)   In order to collect and dispose of the garbage in the city and to
protect the health of the citizens of the city, the City Council hereby
establishes and fixes the following rates to be paid to the city for the
collection and disposal of garbage within the city limits.
Type of Service Monthly Fee
Type of Service                                             Monthly Fee
Multi-unit housing <30 units                                $415
Multi-unit housing >30 units                                $15/unit
Multi-unit elderly housing >30 units                        $13/unit
Duplexes with one meter                                     $34
Businesses with 1 dumpster, 2 weekly pick-ups               $70
Businesses with 1 dumpster, 3 weekly pick-ups               $120
School with 3 dumpsters, 3 weekly pick-ups                  $200
Single family households, 1 weekly pick-up, 1 tote included $17
Additional totes                                            $2 each
 
   (B)   The City Council hereby establishes and fixes the following rates to
be paid to the city for the collection and disposal of garbage outside city
limits.
 
                                                              Monthly Fee
Businesses with 1 dumpster, 3 weekly pick-ups                 $150
Single family households, 1 weekly pick-up, one tote included $20
Additional totes                                              $2 each
 
   (C)   A discount may be provided for households of two or fewer, where the
head of the household has reached the age of 65.
   (D)   Said rates shall become effective starting with the February 1, 2020
billing.
(Prior Code, § 51.03) (Ord. 93-1.1, passed 2-8-1993; Ord. 93.08, passed 8-10-
1993; Ord. 94.4-1, passed 4-11-1994; Ord. passed 8-20-2001; Ord. passed 6-21-
2004; Ord. passed 6-15-2015; Ord. 2018.02.01, passed 2-19-2018; Ord. Ord.
2020.01.01, passed 1-20-2020)
§ 51.04 GARBAGE COLLECTION REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Garbage in containers shall be placed on or near the curb of the city
street or road adjacent to the dwelling, establishment, store, or the like in a
place that can be seen from the street or road, and which shall be convenient
for the picking up and collection of the garbage.   
   (B)   Nonresidents who do not pay out-of-city bag fees shall not leave
garbage in the city for pick-up. Anyone so doing will be deemed guilty of
violating this chapter.
   (C)   The city is prohibited by landfill regulations from picking up any/and
all liquids, oil products, yard debris (including leaves and lawn clippings),
tires, vehicle batteries, metal, and wood.
   (D)   Every city garbage customer will be provided with one city garbage
tote at no cost.
   (E)   A city garbage customer may be permitted to rent an additional tote
from the city for an additional monthly fee, which fee shall be noted on the
city garbage fee schedule.
   (F)   In lieu of renting a second or an additional tote from the city, a
city garbage customer shall be permitted to use a personal garbage tote in
addition to, and not in substitution of, the city provided tote. Such a second
personal tote can only be used by a city garbage customer if said personal tote
is substantially similar in size, appearance, and functionality as the city
provided tote, with the determination of whether the personal garbage tote is
substantially and satisfactorily similar to the city provided tote to be made
by the appropriate city official.
   (G)   Any city garbage customer will be permitted to only use one personal
tote at any garbage collection location. If any city garbage customer needs any
additional tote(s) beyond the one city, provided garbage tote and one
additional personal garbage tote, said customer will be required to rent any
said additional garbage tote(s) from the city for an additional monthly fee,
which fee is noted on the city garbage fee schedule.
   (H)   If a city garbage customer’s city provided garbage tote is severely
damaged or becomes unusable as a result of normal wear and tear, by weather or
other natural forces, or by city workers, it will be repaired or replaced by
the city at no cost to the city garbage customer. The city will have no
liability as to or responsibility for any damage which occurs to any city
garbage customer’s personal garbage tote.
   (I)   City garbage customers are required to fit all of their garbage and
trash inside their garbage totes so that the lid to the tote will close
completely and securely. The city will not collect any garbage or trash,
including any garbage which has fallen on the ground beside the garbage tote,
which is outside the garbage tote.
   (J)   All garbage and trash inside a garbage tote must be in garbage bags.
The city will not collect and dump any garbage and trash in a garbage tote
which is not properly in bags inside the tote.
   (K)   City provided garbage totes shall always remain the property of the
city. When city garbage service is suspended or terminated for any city garbage
customer for any reason, the city provided garbage tote will be collected by
the city and removed from city garbage customer’s site by the city.
(Prior Code, § 51.04) (Ord. 93-1.1, passed 2-8-1993; Ord. 2020.05.04, passed 5-
18-2020) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.05 NUISANCE CONDITIONS REGULATED.
   (A)   The accumulation of uncollectible garbage and refuse is hereby
declared to constitute a nuisance, which is punishable by law.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to cause or to permit the
accumulation of refuse in, about, or upon premises owned, occupied, or used by
him or her, when and if such accumulation is unsightly, unsanitary, or
hazardous to the property, life, health, safety, or welfare of the public.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person to throw, place, or scatter any
garbage, rubbish, trash, or other refuse over or upon any premises, street, or
alley, whether public or private, or adjacent thereto, either with or without
the intent to later remove or burn the same, or to suffer or permit the
accumulation of garbage or refuse on any premises owned, occupied, or
controlled by any such person to become or remain offensive, unsanitary,
unsightly, unsafe to public health, or hazardous from fire.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful for any person to store or permit the
accumulation of garbage or refuse on or about his or her premises, or the
premises occupied by him or her, unless such garbage or refuse is kept
separately in standard refuse or garbage containers of durable plastic or metal
with tight-fitting lids.
(Prior Code, § 51.05) (Ord. 93-1.1, passed 2-8-1993) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.06 ENFORCEMENT.
   In order to further carry out the objectives and purposes of this chapter
and for the health and welfare of the citizens, it shall be the duty of the
Police Department of the city to enforce this chapter against violations or
infractions.
(Prior Code, § 51.06) (Ord. 93-1.1, passed 2-8-1993)
§ 51.99 PENALTY.
   Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter or failing or
refusing to abide by and comply with the rules or regulations promulgated to
effectuate the provisions of this chapter shall, upon conviction, be fined not
more than $500 nor less than $50 for each offense. Each succeeding day a
violation exists shall constitute a new and separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 51.99) (Ord. 93-1.1, passed 2-8-1993)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
71.   TRAFFIC RULES
      
72.   PARKING REGULATIONS
      
73.   BICYCLES, MOTORCYCLES, AND RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
CHAPTER 70: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
70.01   Definitions
   
70.02   Required obedience to traffic directions
   
70.03   Powers and duties of Police Department
   
70.04   Authority for enforcement
   
70.05   Temporary regulations
Traffic-Control Devices
   
70.15   Signal legends
   
70.16   Establishment and maintenance of traffic-control devices
   
70.17   Obedience to signals
   
70.18   Interference with signals
   
70.19   Unauthorized signals or markings
   
70.20   Device to be legible and in proper position
   
70.21   Temporary disregard of devices by police officers
Vehicle License Tax
   
70.35   License required
   
70.36   Application; fee; exemptions
   
70.37   Term
   
70.38   Sticker to be displayed; lost or destroyed sticker
   
70.39   Transfer of vehicle; replacement sticker
   
70.40   Evidence of ownership
 
   
70.99   General penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 70.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this title, the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLES. Vehicles of the Fire Department or Police
Department, vehicles of the Commonwealth Attorney’s office when on official
business, and ambulances on an authorized emergency run.
   BOULEVARD. Any legally designated street at which cross traffic is required
to stop before entering or crossing such boulevard.
   BUSINESS DISTRICT. Any portion of any street between two consecutive
intersections in which 50% or more of the frontage on either side of the street
is used for business purposes.
   CROSSWALK. The portion of the roadway included within the extension of the
sidewalk across any intersection, and such other portions of the roadway
between two intersections, as may be legally designated as crossing places and
marked by stanchions, paint lines, or otherwise.
   CURB. The boundary of that portion of the street used for vehicles whether
marked by curbstones or not.
   FUNERAL PROCESSION. Two or more vehicles accompanying the body of a deceased
person when each vehicle has its headlights on or is displaying a pennant
attached in such a manner as to be clearly visible to approaching traffic.
(KRS 189.378(1))
   INTERSECTION. The part of the public way embraced within the extensions of
the street lines of two or more streets which join at an angle whether or not
one such street crosses the other.
   OFFICIAL TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES. All signs, signals, warnings, directions,
markings, and devices placed or erected or maintained by authority of the Chief
of Police.
   ONE-WAY STREET. A street on which vehicles are permitted to move in one
direction only.
   OPERATOR. Every person who is in actual physical control of the guidance,
starting, and stopping of a vehicle.
   PARK. When applied to vehicles, to leave a vehicle standing, whether
occupied or not, for a period of time longer than is necessary to receive or
discharge passengers or property.
   PEDESTRIAN. Any person afoot.
   PLAY STREET. Any street or portion thereof so designated by the Chief of
Police and reserved as a play area for children, from which all traffic is
barred, except vehicles to and from abutting properties.
   POLICE DEPARTMENT. The Police Department or other persons or agency
authorized to perform the duties of §
70.03 of this subchapter or any other acts necessary to implement and enforce
this Traffic Code.
   PUBLIC WAY. The entire width between property lines of every way, dedicated
passway, or street set aside for public travel, except bridle paths and foot
paths.
   REVERSE TURN. To turn a vehicle on any street in such a manner as to proceed
in the opposite direction.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY. The privilege of the immediate and preferential use of the
street.
   ROADWAY. That portion of any street, improved, designated, or ordinarily
used for vehicular travel.
   SIDEWALK. That portion of the street between the curb and the property line
intended for the use of pedestrians.
   STOPPING. As applied to vehicles, to stop a vehicle longer than is actually
necessary to receive or discharge passengers.
   STREET. Every public way, including alleys.
   TRAFFIC. Pedestrians, ridden or herded animals, vehicles, buses, and other
conveyances, individually or collectively, while using any street for the
purpose of travel.
   VEHICLE. Includes all agencies for the transportation of persons or property
over or upon the public highways of the Commonwealth and all vehicles passing
over or upon the highways. Motor vehicle includes all vehicles, as defined
above except road rollers; road graders; farm tractors; vehicles on which power
shovels are mounted; construction equipment customarily used only on the site
of construction and which is not practical for the transportation of persons or
property upon the highways; vehicles that travel exclusively upon rails;
vehicles propelled by electric power obtained from overhead wires while being
operated within any municipality or where the vehicles do not travel more than
five miles beyond the city limits of any municipality; vehicles propelled by
muscular power; and electric low-speed scooters.
(KRS 189.010(19)) (Prior Code, § 70.01)
§ 70.02 REQUIRED OBEDIENCE TO TRAFFIC DIRECTIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to fail or refuse to comply with
any lawful order, signal, or direction given by a uniformed police officer, or
to fail or refuse to comply with any of the traffic regulations of this Traffic
Code.
   (B)   The provisions of this Traffic Code shall apply to the driver of any
vehicle owned or used in the service of the United States government, this
state, county, or city, and it shall be unlawful for any such driver to violate
any of the provisions of this Traffic Code, except as otherwise permitted in
this Traffic Code or by state statute.
   (C)   Every person propelling any pushcart or riding a bicycle or an animal
on any roadway, and every person driving any animal on any roadway, and every
person driving any animal-drawn vehicle shall be subject to the provisions of
this Traffic Code applicable to the driver of any vehicle, except those
provisions of this Traffic Code which by their very nature can have no
application.
(Prior Code, § 70.02) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.03 POWERS AND DUTIES OF POLICE DEPARTMENT.
   It shall be the duty of the Police Department to direct all traffic in
conformance with this Traffic Code and to enforce the traffic regulations as
set forth in this Traffic Code, to make arrest for traffic violations, to
investigate accidents, and to cooperate with other officers of the city in the
administration of the traffic laws, and in developing ways and means to improve
traffic conditions.
(Prior Code, § 70.03)
§ 70.04 AUTHORITY FOR ENFORCEMENT.
   Authority to direct and enforce all traffic regulations of this city in
accordance with the provisions of this Traffic Code and to make arrests for
traffic violations is given to the Police Department, and, except in case of
emergency, it shall be unlawful for any other person to direct or attempt to
direct traffic by voice, hand, whistle, or any other signal.
(Prior Code, § 70.04) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.05 TEMPORARY REGULATIONS.
   When required for the convenience and safety of the public and to alleviate
unusual traffic problems, the Chief of Police or other authorized city official
shall, at his or her discretion, have authority to impose such traffic
regulations as he or she may deem necessary for temporary periods not to exceed
two weeks. If these temporary regulations are necessary for a period longer
than two weeks, the City Clerk- Treasurer shall be notified in writing of the
extended order.
(Prior Code, § 70.05)
TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES
§ 70.15 SIGNAL LEGENDS.
   Whenever traffic is regulated or controlled exclusively by a traffic-control
sign or signs exhibiting the words “go,” “caution,” or “stop,” or exhibiting
different colored lights for purposes of traffic-control, the following colors
only shall be used, and these terms and lights shall indicate and be obeyed as
follows.
   (A)   Green alone or “go.” Vehicular traffic facing the signal may proceed
straight through or turn right or left unless a sign at such place prohibits
either such turn. However, vehicular traffic shall yield the right-of-way to
other vehicles and to pedestrians lawfully within the intersection at the time
such signal is exhibited.
   (B)   Steady yellow alone or “caution” when shown following the green or
“go” signal. Vehicular traffic facing a steady yellow signal is thereby warned
that the related green movement is being terminated or that a red indication
will be exhibited immediately thereafter when vehicular traffic shall not enter
the intersection. Vehicular traffic facing a steady yellow signal may enter and
clear the intersection.
   (C)   Red alone or double red or “stop.” Vehicular traffic facing the signal
shall stop before entering the nearest crosswalk at an intersection or at such
other point as may be indicated by a clearly visible line, and shall remain
standing until green or “go” is shown alone.
   (D)   Flashing red alone. Vehicular traffic facing the signal shall stop
before entering the nearest crosswalk at an intersection or at such other point
as may be indicated by a clearly visible line, and shall not again proceed
until it can do so without danger.
   (E)   Flashing yellow alone. Vehicular traffic facing the signal shall
reduce its speed and proceed cautiously across the intersection controlled by
such signal.
   (F)   “Yield right-of-way.” Vehicular traffic facing the “yield right-of-
way” sign shall bear the primary responsibility of safely entering the primary
intersecting or merging right-of-way. All traffic facing the sign shall yield
the right-of-way to all vehicles and pedestrians within such primary
intersecting or merging right-of-way. No vehicle facing a “yield right-of-way”
sign shall enter the merging or intersecting right-of-way at a speed in excess
of 15 mph, except that this speed limit shall not apply to vehicles entering an
expressway.
   (G)   Lane lights. When lane lights are installed over any street for the
purpose of controlling the direction of flow of traffic, vehicular traffic
shall move only in traffic lanes over which green arrows appear. However, when
flashing amber lights appear above a lane all left turns shall be made from
that lane. Where red arrows appear above such lanes, vehicles shall not move
against them. If flashing amber lights show above a lane, that lane shall be
used only for passing and for left turns unless a sign at such place prohibits
such turn.
(Prior Code, § 70.15) Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Traffic-control signals, see KRS 189.338 
§ 70.16 ESTABLISHMENT AND MAINTENANCE OF TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES.
   The city shall establish and maintain all official traffic-control devices
necessary within the city. All traffic-control devices, including signs, shall
be employed to indicate one particular warning or regulation, shall be uniform,
and as far as possible shall be placed uniformly. All traffic-control devices
and signs shall conform to required state specifications.
(Prior Code, § 70.16)
§ 70.17 OBEDIENCE TO SIGNALS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the driver of any vehicle to disobey the
signal of any official traffic-control device placed in accordance with the
provisions of this Traffic Code or of a traffic barrier or sign erected by any
of the public departments or public utilities of the city, or any electric
signal, gate, or watchperson at railroad crossings, unless otherwise directed
by a police officer. However, the type and the right to or necessity for such
barrier or sign must be approved by the city.
   (B)   Such sign, signal, marking, or barrier shall have the same authority
as the personal direction of a police officer.
(Prior Code, § 70.17) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.18 INTERFERENCE WITH SIGNALS.
   No person shall without authority attempt to or in fact alter, deface,
injure, knock down, or remove any official control device or any railroad sign
or signal, or any inscription, shield, or insignia thereon, or any part
thereof.
(Prior Code, § 70.18) Penalty see §
70.99
§ 70.19 UNAUTHORIZED SIGNALS OR MARKINGS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, maintain, or display on
or in view of any street any unauthorized sign, signal, marking, or device
which purports to be or is an imitation of or resembles an official traffic
device or railroad sign or signal which attempts or purports to direct the
movement of traffic, or which conceals or hides from view or interferes with
the effectiveness of any official control device or any railroad sign or
signal. No person shall place or maintain, nor shall any public authority
permit on any street, any traffic sign or signal bearing any commercial
advertising. Nothing in this section shall be construed as restricting any
public department or public utility of the city in any emergency or temporarily
from marking or erecting any traffic barrier or sign whose placing has been
approved by the city.
   (B)   Every such prohibited sign, signal, or marking is declared to be a
public nuisance and the city is empowered forthwith to remove it or cause it to
be removed.
(Prior Code, § 70.19) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.20 DEVICE TO BE LEGIBLE AND IN PROPER POSITION.
   No provision of this Traffic Code for which signs or any other traffic-
control device is required shall be enforceable against an alleged violator if
at the time and place of the alleged violation the required device was not in
proper position and sufficiently legible to be seen by an ordinarily observant
person.
(Prior Code, § 70.20)
§ 70.21 TEMPORARY DISREGARD OF DEVICES BY POLICE OFFICERS.
   In an emergency, any police officer may, at his or her discretion, disregard
traffic-control lights or signals or established regulations in order to
facilitate the movement of traffic.
(Prior Code, § 70.21)
VEHICLE LICENSE TAX
§ 70.35 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   Unless exempted under §
70.36(C) of this subchapter, it shall be unlawful for any person residing in
the city to use or operate any motor vehicle within the limits of the city or
for any person residing outside of the city to use or operate or cause to be
used or operated any motor vehicle within the limits of the city in connection
with a regular business conducted or regular employment or occupation followed
within the limits of the city without first having obtained a license to use or
operate the same and paid the license fee as provided in this subchapter. The
term REGULAR shall mean coming into the city on 25 or more occasions per year
in connection with one’s business or employment.
(Prior Code, § 70.35) (Ord. 520.2, passed - -) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.36 APPLICATION; FEE; EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   Each and every person owning or operating a motor vehicle in the city,
except as set forth in division (C) below, shall immediately upon the
acquisition thereof, make application to the City Clerk-Treasurer for a license
therefor, and shall furnish to the City Clerk-Treasurer the name and address of
the owner thereof, the name of the motor vehicle, the model, the capacity, and
the number of the license so furnished the owner by the state.
   (B)   Each person desiring the license required by division (A) above shall
pay to the city a license tax as follows:
      (1)   For each motorcycle, $15; and
      (2)   For each vehicle, $20.
   (C)   Unless exempted under this division (C), it shall be unlawful for any
person residing in the city to use or operate any motor vehicle within the
limits of the city or for any person residing outside of the city to use or
operate or cause to be used or operated any motor vehicle within the limits of
the city in connection with a regular business conducted or regular employment
or occupation followed within the limits of the city without first having
obtained a license to use or operate the same and paid the license fee as
provided in this subchapter. The term REGULAR shall mean coming into the city
on 25 or more occasions per year in connection with one’s business or
employment or maintaining, parking, or storing the vehicle within the limits of
the city for seven or more consecutive days.
(Prior Code, § 70.36) (Ord. 520.2, passed - -; Ord. 94.3-1, passed 3-28-1994;
Ord. passed 4-27-2015; Ord. 2021.05.02, passed 5-17-2021; Ord. 2023.07.04,
passed 7-17-2023) Penalty, see §  
70.99
§ 70.37 TERM.
   The license required by the provisions of this subchapter shall expire on
June 30 of each year. Any person acquiring a motor vehicle after June 30 shall
pay the pro rata share of the license tax computed on a quarterly basis, but in
no event shall such license tax be for a less period of time than three months,
and if such license is not procured within 30 days after acquiring the motor
vehicle, there also shall be added to the license tax a penalty of $5. If a
required license tax is not paid by June 30 each year, there shall be added
thereto a penalty of $5.
(Prior Code, § 70.37) (Ord. 520.2, passed - -) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.38 STICKER TO BE DISPLAYED; LOST OR DESTROYED STICKER.
   The license sticker required by this subchapter shall be in the form of a
sticker which the licensee shall permanently display (until its date of
expiration) upon the vehicle at all times on the lower portion of the
windshield on the passenger side. If the sticker is inadvertently lost or
destroyed, a replacement sticker will be provided at a cost to the owner of $1.
Motorcycle owners must have sticker or sticker receipt in their possession if
cycle does not have a windshield.
(Prior Code, § 70.38) (Ord. 520.2, passed - -; Ord. 94. 3-1, passed 3-28-1994)
§ 70.39 TRANSFER OF VEHICLE; REPLACEMENT STICKER.
   In the event a vehicle is traded or sold, the license sticker must be
removed from the windshield of that vehicle and presented at City Hall along
with the original receipt in order to obtain a replacement sticker, said
replacement sticker to be at a cost to the owner of $1.
(Prior Code, § 70.39)
§ 70.40 EVIDENCE OF OWNERSHIP.
   Possession of a state license or license tag shall be prima facie evidence
of ownership and operation of any motor vehicle coming under the provisions of
this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 70.40)
§ 70.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   (A)   Whoever violates any provision of this Traffic Code where no other
penalty is specifically provided shall be fined not less than $100 nor more
than $500 for each occurrence, not to exceed $500.
   (B)   Vehicle license stickers required under §§
70.35 through
70.40 which are not purchased by July 1 shall be deemed delinquent. Such
delinquent stickers purchased after June 30 shall have a penalty of $5 imposed
and added to the purchase price at the time the delinquent sticker is
purchased. If a citation is issued for nonpurchase of the sticker, the fine
imposed shall be in addition to the penalty and purchase price.
(Prior Code, § 70.99) (Ord. 520.2, passed - -; Ord. passed 4-11-1983; Ord.
2021.05.02, passed 5-17-2021)
CHAPTER 71: TRAFFIC RULES
Section
Operation Generally
   
71.01   Obstructing traffic
   
71.02   Reverse or U-turns
   
71.03   Backing vehicles
   
71.04   Vehicles crossing sidewalks
   
71.05   Speed limit and weight limit in trailer court
   
71.06   General speed limit
Accidents
   
71.20   Duty of operator
   
71.21   Accident report
Prohibitions
   
71.35   Reckless driving; injury to streets
   
71.36   Right-of-way of emergency vehicles; following emergency vehicles;
driving over fire hose
   
71.37   Smoke emission or other nuisance
Funeral Processions
   
71.50   Funeral processions
Parades
   
71.65   Definition
   
71.66   Permit required
   
71.67   Application for permit
   
71.68   Standards for issuance of permit
   
71.69   Notice of rejection of permit
   
71.70   Appeal procedure when permit denied
   
71.71   Alternative permit
   
71.72   Notice to city and other officials when permit issued
   
71.73   Contents of permit
   
71.74   Duties of permittee
   
71.75   Public conduct during parades
   
71.76   Revocation of permit
 
   
71.99   Penalty
OPERATION GENERALLY
§ 71.01 OBSTRUCTING TRAFFIC.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to operate any vehicle or permit it to remain
standing in any street in such manner as to create an obstruction thereof.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to enter any
intersection or crosswalk unless there is sufficient space on the other side of
the intersection or crosswalk to accommodate the vehicle without obstructing
the passage of other vehicles or pedestrians, notwithstanding the indication of
any traffic-control signal which may be located at the intersection or
crosswalk.
   (C)   Any intersection deemed by the city to be of special or critical
importance to the movement of traffic shall be marked in such distinctive
manner as to indicate such importance. Should the operator of any vehicle enter
any intersection so marked when there is insufficient room on the other side of
the intersection to accommodate the vehicle, the indication of any traffic-
control signal notwithstanding, he or she shall be deemed to have violated this
division (C) rather than division (B) above.
(Prior Code, § 71.01) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.02 REVERSE OR U-TURNS.
   The operator of any vehicle shall not turn such vehicles so as to proceed in
the opposite direction unless such movement can be made in safety without
interfering with other traffic.
(KRS 189.330(8)) (Prior Code, § 71.02) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.03 BACKING VEHICLES.
   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to back the vehicle at
any intersection for the purpose of executing a turning movement. A vehicle
from any parking position shall be backed by the operator in such manner as to
proceed on the same side of the roadway in the lawful direction of travel.
(Prior Code, § 71.03) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.04 VEHICLES CROSSING SIDEWALKS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to drive within
any sidewalk space except at a permanent or temporary driveway or by special
permit from the Chief of Police or other authorized city official.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to drive the
vehicle out of any alley, driveway, building, or lot and across a sidewalk, or
its extension across the alley, unless the vehicle has been brought to a
complete stop immediately prior to crossing the sidewalk or its extension.
   (C)   On entering the roadway from the alley, driveway, or building, the
operator shall yield the right-of-way to all vehicles approaching on the
roadway. The operator of any vehicle intending to cross a sidewalk and turn
into an alley from the roadway may do so at low speed and with caution.
(Prior Code, § 71.04) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.05 SPEED LIMIT AND WEIGHT LIMIT IN TRAILER COURT.
   (A)   No person shall operate a motor vehicle within the city trailer park
at a greater speed than 15 mph. Also prohibited are any vehicles larger than
two-ton trucks in the city trailer park, with the exception of service trucks
and trucks with official license plates, without written permission of the City
Council or Mayor.
   (B)   Whoever violates the speed limit and/or weight limit set forth in this
section shall be subject to the same fine as set forth in the fine schedule of
KRS 189.394.
(Prior Code, § 71.05) (Ord. passed 6-10-1985; Ord. passed 8-8-1988)
§ 71.06 GENERAL SPEED LIMIT.
   (A)   No person shall operate a motor vehicle on any highway, street, alley,
or other public way within the city at a greater speed than 25 mph, unless a
different speed limit has been lawfully established and posted by the state or
the city.
   (B)   Whoever violates the speed limit set forth in this section shall be
subject to the same fine as set forth in the fine schedule of KRS 189.394.
(Prior Code, § 71.06) (Ord. 340.1, passed 5-3-1954)
ACCIDENTS
§ 71.20 DUTY OF OPERATOR.
   It shall be the duty of the owner of, operator of, or passenger in any motor
vehicle which is involved in an accident in which any person is injured or
property damaged to stop immediately and ascertain the extent of the injury or
damage and render such assistance as may be needed.
(Prior Code, § 71.15) Penalty, see §
71.99
Statutory reference:
   Duty in case of accident, see KRS 189.580
§ 71.21 ACCIDENT REPORT.
   The operator, owner, or passenger involved in an accident resulting in the
injury or death of any person, or an accident in which property is damaged,
shall immediately report the accident or property damage to the Police
Department.
(Prior Code, § 71.16) Penalty, see §
71.99
PROHIBITIONS
§ 71.35 RECKLESS DRIVING; INJURY TO STREETS.
   (A)   The operator of any vehicle upon a highway shall operate the vehicle
in a careful manner, with regard for the safety and convenience of pedestrians
and other vehicles upon the highway.
   (B)   No person shall willfully operate any vehicle on any highway in such a
manner as to injure the highway.
(KRS 189.290) (Prior Code, § 71.25) (Ord. 340.1, passed 5-3-1954) Penalty, see
§
71.99
§ 71.36 RIGHT-OF-WAY OF EMERGENCY VEHICLES; FOLLOWING EMERGENCY VEHICLES;
DRIVING OVER FIRE HOSE.
   (A)   Upon the approach of an emergency vehicle equipped with, and
operating, one or more flashing, rotating, or oscillating red or blue lights
visible under normal conditions from a distance of 500 feet to the front of
such vehicle; or when the driver is giving audible signal by siren, exhaust
whistle, or bell, the driver of every other vehicle shall yield the right-of-
way, immediately drive to a position parallel to, and as close as possible to,
the edge or curb of the highway clear of any intersection, and stop and remain
in such position until the emergency vehicle has passed, except when otherwise
directed by a police officer or firefighter.
   (B)   Upon the approach of any emergency vehicle operated in conformity with
the provisions of division (A) above, the operator of every vehicle shall
immediately stop clear of any intersection and shall keep such position until
the emergency vehicle has passed, unless directed otherwise by a police officer
or firefighter.
   (C)   No operator of any vehicle, unless he or she is on official business,
shall follow any emergency vehicle being operated in conformity with the
provisions of division (A) above closer than 500 feet, nor shall he or she
drive into, park the vehicle into, or park the vehicle within the block where
the vehicle has stopped in answer to an emergency call or alarm, unless he or
she is directed otherwise by a police officer or firefighter.
   (D)   No vehicle, train, or other equipment shall be driven over any
unprotected hose of a Fire Department when the hose is laid down on any street,
private driveway, or track for use at any fire or fire alarm unless the Fire
Department official in command consents that the hose be driven over.
   (E)   Upon approaching a stationary emergency vehicle or public safety
vehicle, when the emergency vehicle or public safety vehicle is giving a signal
by displaying alternately flashing yellow, red, red and white, red and blue, or
blue lights, a person who drives an approaching vehicle shall, while proceeding
with due caution:
      (1)   Yield the right-of-way by moving to a lane not adjacent to that of
the authorized emergency vehicle, if:
         (a)   The person is driving on a highway having at least four lanes
with not fewer than two lanes proceeding in the same direction as the
approaching vehicle; and
         (b)   If it is possible to make the lane change with due regard to
safety and traffic conditions; or
      (2)   Reduce the speed of the vehicle, maintaining a safe speed to road
conditions, if changing lanes would be impossible or unsafe.
   (F)   This section does not operate to relieve the person who drives an
emergency vehicle from the duty to operate the vehicle with due regard for the
safety of all persons using the highway.
(KRS 189.930) (Prior Code, § 71.26) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.37 SMOKE EMISSION OR OTHER NUISANCE.
   Every vehicle when on a highway shall be so equipped as to make a minimum of
noise, smoke, or other nuisance, to protect the rights of other traffic, and to
promote the public safety.
(KRS 189.020) (Prior Code, § 71.27) Penalty, see §
71.99   
FUNERAL PROCESSIONS
§ 71.50 FUNERAL PROCESSIONS.
   (A)   A vehicle in a funeral procession has the right-of-way at an
intersection and may proceed through the intersection if the procession is led
by an escort vehicle displaying flashing yellow, red, or blue lights, except:
      (1)   When the right-of-way is required by an emergency vehicle as
defined by KRS 189.910;
      (2)   When vehicles in the procession are directed otherwise by a police
or safety officer; or
      (3)   When the vehicle is a train or locomotive.
   (B)   Before assuming the right-of-way, a person who drives a vehicle in a
funeral procession shall exercise due caution with regard to crossing traffic.
   (C)   A person who drives a vehicle that is not part of a funeral procession
shall not drive the vehicle between the vehicles of the funeral procession or
otherwise interfere with the progress of the procession, except when:
      (1)   The person is authorized to do so by a police or safety officer; or
      (2)   The vehicle is an emergency vehicle as defined by KRS 189.910.
   (D)   A person who drives a vehicle that is not part of a funeral procession
shall not illuminate the vehicle headlights or engage in any other act for the
purpose of securing the right-of-way granted to funeral processions.
   (E)   The escort vehicle, hearse, or other vehicles in a procession may be
equipped with flashing amber lights for the purpose of notifying the general
public of the procession and gaining the right-of-way at intersections, or
signaling the end of a procession.
   (F)   Persons authorized to use flashing lights as defined in KRS 189.920
may use them while accompanying a funeral procession to warn traffic that a
procession is approaching or that it is in progress.
   (G)   When a funeral procession is in progress, a person driving a vehicle
not in the procession shall not pass or overtake any vehicle in the procession
unless:
      (1)   The person is directed to do so by a police or safety officer;
      (2)   The procession is on a street, road, or highway outside the
corporate limits of a city, town, or urban-county; or
      (3)   The procession is on an interstate highway or a state parkway.
(KRS 189.378) (Prior Code, § 71.30) Penalty, see §
71.99
PARADES
§ 71.65 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CRUISING. The repeated operation of two or more vehicles in a continuous or
nearly continuous flow through a parking lot.
   PARADE. Any parade, march, ceremony, show, exhibition, pageant, or
procession of any kind, or any similar display in or on any street, sidewalk,
park, or other public place in the city, or CRUISING as defined herein.
   PARADE PERMIT. A permit required by this subchapter.
   PARKING LOT. Any paved or unpaved area used by a place of business or
shopping center for the parking of vehicles of their customers, but shall not
include those operated for hire as defined in KRS 189.700.
(Prior Code, § 71.40)
§ 71.66 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   No person or persons shall engage in, participate in, aid, form, or
start any parade unless a parade permit has been obtained from the Chief of
Police or other authorized city official.
   (B)   This subchapter shall not apply to:
      (1)   Funeral processions;
      (2)   Students going to and from school classes or participating in
educational activities, providing the conduct is under the immediate direction
and supervision of the proper school authorities; and
      (3)   A governmental agency acting within the scope of its functions.
(Prior Code, § 71.41) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.67 APPLICATION FOR PERMIT.
   A person seeking issuance of a parade permit shall file an application with
the Chief of Police or other authorized city official on forms provided by such
officer.
   (A)   The application for a parade permit shall be filed not less than five
days or not more than 60 days before the date on which it is proposed to
conduct the parade.
   (B)   The application for a parade permit shall set forth the following
information:
      (1)   The name, address, and telephone number of the person seeking to
conduct the parade;
      (2)   If the parade is proposed to be conducted for, on behalf of, or by
an organization, the name, address, and telephone number of the headquarters of
the organization and of the authorized and responsible heads of the
organization;
      (3)   The name, address, and telephone number of the person who will be
the parade chairperson and who will be responsible for its conduct;
      (4)   The date when the parade is to be conducted;
      (5)   The route to be traveled, the starting point, and the termination
point;
      (6)   The approximate number of persons, animals, and vehicles which will
constitute the parade, the type of animals, if any, and the description of the
vehicles;
      (7)   The hours when the parade will start and terminate;
      (8)   A statement as to whether the parade will occupy all or only a
portion of the width of the streets, sidewalk, park, or other public place
proposed to be traversed;
      (9)   The location by street of any assembly area for the parade;
      (10)   The time at which units of the parade will begin to assemble at
any such assembly area or areas;
      (11)   The interval of space to be maintained between units of the
parade;
      (12)   If the parade is designed to be held by, and on behalf of or for,
any person other than the applicant, the applicant for the permit shall file a
communication in writing from the person authorizing the applicant to apply for
the permit on his or her behalf; and
      (13)   Any additional information reasonably necessary to a fair
determination as to whether a permit should issue.
   (C) There shall be paid at the time of filing an application for a parade
permit a fee in an amount as established by the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 71.42) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.68 STANDARDS FOR ISSUANCE OF PERMIT.
   The Chief of Police or other authorized city official shall issue a permit
when, from a consideration of the application and from other information
obtained, he or she finds that:
   (A)   The conduct of the parade will not substantially interrupt the safe
and orderly movement of other traffic contiguous to its route;
   (B)   The conduct of the parade will not require the diversion of so great a
number of police officers of the city to properly police the line of movement
and the areas contiguous thereto as to prevent normal police protection to the
city;
   (C)   The conduct of the parade will not require the diversion of so great a
number of ambulances as to prevent normal ambulance service to portions of the
city other than that to be occupied by the proposed line of march and areas
contiguous thereto;
   (D)   The concentration of persons, animals, and vehicles at assembly points
of the parade will not unduly interfere with proper fire and police protection
of, or ambulance service to, areas contiguous to the assembly areas;
   (E)   The conduct of the parade will not interfere with the movement of
firefighting equipment enroute to a fire;
   (F)   The parade is scheduled to move from its point of origin to its point
of termination expeditiously and without unreasonable delays enroute;
   (G)   The parade is not to be held for the sole purpose of advertising any
product, goods, or event, and is not designated to be held purely for private
profit; and
   (H)   The parade, if it takes the form of cruising, has the approval in
writing of the owner or an authorized agent of the owner for the use of the
parking lot which is the site of the parade.
(Prior Code, § 71.43) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.69 NOTICE OF REJECTION OF PERMIT.
   The Chief of Police or other authorized city official shall act on the
application for a parade permit within three days, Saturdays, Sundays, and
holidays excepted, after filing thereof. If he or she disapproves the
application, he or she shall mail to the applicant within the three days,
Saturdays, Sundays, and holidays excepted, after the date on which the
application was filed, a notice of his or her action stating the reasons for
his or her denial of the permit.
(Prior Code, § 71.44)
§ 71.70 APPEAL PROCEDURE WHEN PERMIT DENIED.
   Any person aggrieved shall have the right to appeal the denial of a parade
permit to the City Council. The appeal shall be taken within 30 days after
notice of denial. The City Council shall act on the appeal within 30 days after
its receipt.
(Prior Code, § 71.45)
§ 71.71 ALTERNATIVE PERMIT.
   The Chief of Police or other authorized city official, in denying an
application for a parade permit, shall be empowered to authorize the conduct of
the parade on a date, at a time, or over a route different than that named by
the applicant. An applicant desiring to accept an alternate permit shall file a
written notice of his or her acceptance. An alternate parade permit shall
conform to the requirements of, and shall have the effect of, a parade permit
under this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 71.46)
§ 71.72 NOTICE TO CITY AND OTHER OFFICIALS WHEN PERMIT ISSUED.
   Immediately on the issuance of a parade permit, a copy thereof shall be sent
to the following persons:
   (A)   The Mayor;
   (B)   The City Attorney;
   (C)   The Fire Chief; and
   (D)   The general manager or responsible head of each public utility, the
regular routes of whose vehicles will be affected by the route of the proposed
parade.
(Prior Code, § 71.47)
§ 71.73 CONTENTS OF PERMIT.
   Each parade permit shall state the following information:
   (A)   Starting time;
   (B)   Minimum speed;
   (C)   Maximum speed;
   (D)   Maximum interval of space to be maintained between the units of the
parade;
   (E)   The portions of the street, sidewalk, park, or other public place to
be traversed that may be occupied by the parade;
   (F)   The maximum length of the parade in miles or fractions thereof; and
   (G)   Such other information as is reasonably necessary to the enforcement
of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 71.48) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.74 DUTIES OF PERMITTEE.
   A permittee hereunder shall comply with all permit directions and conditions
and with all applicable laws and ordinances. The parade chairperson or other
person heading or leading the activity shall carry the parade permit on his or
her person during the conduct of the parade.
(Prior Code, § 71.49) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.75 PUBLIC CONDUCT DURING PARADES.
   (A)   Interference. No person shall unreasonably hamper, obstruct, impede,
or interfere with any parade or parade assembly or with any person, vehicle, or
animal participating or used in a parade.
   (B)   Driving through parades. No driver of a vehicle, except a police car
or other emergency vehicle shall drive between the vehicles or persons
comprising a parade when such vehicles or persons are in motion and are
conspicuously designated as a parade.
   (C)   Parking on parade route. The Chief of Police or other authorized city
official shall have the authority, when reasonably necessary, to prohibit or
restrict the parking of vehicles along a street or other public thoroughfare or
part thereof constituting a part of the route of a parade. Signs shall be
posted to such effect, and it shall be unlawful for any person to park or leave
unattended any vehicle in violation thereof. No person shall be liable for
parking on a street or other public thoroughfare unless signs have been posted
in accordance with this division (C).
(Prior Code, § 71.50) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.76 REVOCATION OF PERMIT.
   The city shall have the authority to revoke a parade permit issued hereunder
on application of the standards for issuance as herein set forth.
(Prior Code, § 71.51)
§ 71.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter for which no other
penalty is specifically provided shall be fined not less than $20 nor more than
$500.
   (B)   Any person who violates §
71.36 shall be fined not less than $60 nor more than $500, or be imprisoned in
the county jail for not more than 30 days, or both.
(KRS 189.993(8)) (Prior Code, § 71.99)
CHAPTER 72: PARKING REGULATIONS
Section
Parking Generally
   
72.01   Obstructional parking; double parking
   
72.02   Manner of parking
   
72.03   Limitations of stopping and parking
   
72.04   Restrictions and prohibitions on designated streets
   
72.05   Parking restricted to allow street cleaning
   
72.06   All-night parking
   
72.07   Parking on parade route
   
72.08   Parking on off-street facility
   
72.09   Owner responsibility
   
72.10   Parking in parks
   
72.11   Display of parked vehicle for sale   
   
72.12   Parking with permits for persons with disabilities
   
72.13   Two-hour parking areas
Impounding
   
72.25   Impoundment of vehicles authorized; redemption
   
72.26   Required notice to owner
   
72.27   Sale of vehicle
Snow Emergency
   
72.40   Announcement of snow emergency
   
72.41   Termination of emergency
   
72.42   Snow emergency routes
 
   
72.99   Penalty
Statutory reference:
   Revenues from fees, fines, and forfeitures related to parking, see KRS
65.120
PARKING GENERALLY
§ 72.01 OBSTRUCTIONAL PARKING; DOUBLE PARKING.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to leave any vehicle or any other
thing that may be a nuisance, obstruction, or hindrance in or on any street,
alley, or sidewalk within the city either during the day or night.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to stop or park any vehicle on the
roadway side of any other vehicle stopped or parked at the edge or curb of a
street.
(Prior Code, § 72.01) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.02 MANNER OF PARKING.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to stop or park
the vehicle in a manner other than with its right-hand side toward and parallel
with the curb, except that where parking is permitted on the left side of a
one-way street, the left-hand side shall be so parked, and except for
commercial loading and unloading on one-way streets.
   (B)   No vehicle shall be parked or left standing on any street unless its
two right wheels are within six inches of and parallel with the curb, except
that on one-way streets where parking is permitted on the left side the two
left wheels are to be within six inches of and parallel with the curb.
   (C)   No vehicle shall be backed to the curb on any street, except that
wagons and trucks may do so when loading and unloading provided that such
loading and unloading and delivery of property and material shall not consume
more than 30 minutes. Such backing of trucks or wagons is prohibited at all
times and on all streets in the city where any truck or wagon so backed
interferes with the use of the roadway of moving vehicles or occupies road
space within ten feet of the center line of the street.
   (D)   The city may establish diagonal parking at certain places, requiring
the parking of vehicles at a certain angle to the curb and within a certain
portion of the roadway adjacent thereto. However, diagonal parking shall not be
established where the roadway space required therefor would be within ten feet
of the center line of any street. Such diagonal parking places shall be
designated by suitable signs, and shall indicate by markings on the pavement
the required angle and the width of the roadway space within which such vehicle
shall park.
   (E)   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to so park such
vehicle that any part thereof shall extend beyond the lines marking the side or
the rear of the space assigned for one vehicle.
(Prior Code, § 72.02) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.03 LIMITATIONS OF STOPPING AND PARKING.
   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to stop or park such
vehicle except in a case of real emergency or in compliance with the provisions
of this Traffic Code or when directed by a police officer or traffic sign or
signal at any time in the following places:
   (A)   On the mainly-traveled portion of any roadway or on any other place in
the roadway where vehicles stand in any manner other than as specified in §
72.02 of this chapter;
   (B)   On a sidewalk;
   (C)   In front of sidewalk ramps for persons with disabilities;
   (D)   In front of a public or private driveway;
   (E)   Within an intersection or crosswalk;
   (F)   At any place where official signs prohibit stopping or parking. This
does not apply to police officers when operating properly identified vehicles
during the performance of their official duties;
   (G)   Within 30 feet of any flashing beacon, traffic sign, or traffic-
control device;
   (H)   Within 20 feet of any fire hydrant;
   (I)   On any controlled access highway;
   (J)   Within a highway tunnel;
   (K)   In an area between the roadways of a divided highway; and
   (L)   No person shall move a vehicle not lawfully under his or her control
into any such prohibited area.
(KRS 189.450(5)-(7)) (Prior Code, § 72.03) (Ord. 340.1, passed 5-3-1954)
Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.04 RESTRICTIONS AND PROHIBITIONS ON DESIGNATED STREETS.
   (A)   The provisions of this section prohibiting the stopping and parking of
a vehicle shall apply at all times or at those times herein specified or as
indicated on official signs except when it is necessary to stop a vehicle to
avoid conflict with other traffic or in compliance with the directions of a
police officer or official traffic-control devices.
   (B)   The provisions of this section imposing a time limit on parking shall
not relieve any person from his or her duty to observe other and more
restrictive provisions prohibiting or limiting the stopping or parking of
vehicles in specific places or at specified times.
   (C)   When signs are erected in compliance with the provisions of division
(F) below giving notice thereof, no person shall park a vehicle at any time on
any street so marked by official signs.
   (D)   When a curb has been painted in compliance with the provisions of
division (F) below, no person shall park a vehicle at any time at or adjacent
to any curb so marked.
   (E)   When signs are erected in compliance with the provisions of division
(F) below, in each block giving notice thereof, no person shall park a vehicle
between the hours specified by official signs on any day except Sundays on any
street so marked.
   (F)   (1)   The city shall determine on what streets or portions thereof
stopping or parking shall be restricted or prohibited. Whenever under authority
of or by this Traffic Code or any other ordinance any parking limit is imposed
or parking is prohibited on designated streets, or parking areas are restricted
to disabled parking, appropriate signs shall be erected giving notice thereof.
However, in lieu of erecting such signs or in conjunction therewith, the face
and top of a curb or curbs at or adjacent to which parking is prohibited at all
times may be painted a solid yellow color.
      (2)   No such regulations or restrictions shall be effective unless the
signs have been erected and are in place or the curbs are painted yellow at the
time of any alleged offense, except in the case of those parking restrictions
which by their very nature would not require such signs and markings.
   (G)   When signs are erected in compliance with division (F) above in each
block giving notice thereof, no person shall park a vehicle for a time longer
than specified on official signs any day except Sunday and on any street so
marked.
(Prior Code, § 72.04) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.05 PARKING RESTRICTED TO ALLOW STREET CLEANING.
   The city is authorized to designate street cleaning areas and shall provide
suitable signs and markings on the street to be cleaned, restricting parking on
that particular day. It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to
stop on any street so designated.
(Prior Code, § 72.05) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.06 ALL-NIGHT PARKING.
   It shall be unlawful for any one to park in any one place any vehicle on any
of the public ways or streets of the city for a period of 24 hours or longer.
Any vehicle left parked in any one place on any of the public ways or streets
of the city for a period of 24 hours or longer shall be deemed abandoned, and
shall be subject to all existing regulations of the city pertaining to
abandoned motor vehicles.
(Prior Code, § 72.06) Penalty, see §
72.99
Cross-reference:
   Removal of abandoned vehicles, see §
72.25 through
72.27
§ 72.07 PARKING ON PARADE ROUTE.
   (A)   The Chief of Police or other authorized city official shall have the
authority, whenever in his or her judgment it is necessary, to prohibit or
restrict the parking of vehicles along a street or part thereof constituting a
part of the route of a parade or procession, to erect temporary traffic signs
to that effect, and to prohibit and prevent such parking.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to park or leave unattended any vehicle in
violation of such signs or directions.
(Prior Code, § 72.07) Penalty, see §
72.99
Cross-reference:
   Parades, see §§
71.65 through
71.76
§ 72.08 PARKING ON OFF-STREET FACILITY.
   It shall be unlawful for the driver of a motor vehicle to park or abandon
the vehicle or drive on or otherwise trespass on another’s property, or on an
area developed as an off-street parking facility, without the consent of the
owner, lessee, or person in charge of any such property or facility. If at any
time a vehicle is parked, abandoned, or otherwise trespasses in violation of
the provisions of this section, a warrant may be obtained in District Court by
the owner, lessee, or person in charge of the property or facility, and the
Police Department, on written complaint of the owner, lessee, or person in
charge, shall remove or cause to be removed the vehicle in accordance with the
provisions of §§
72.25 through
72.27 of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 72.08) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.09 OWNER RESPONSIBILITY.
   If any vehicle is found illegally parked in violation of any provisions of
this subchapter regulating stopping, standing, or parking of vehicles, and the
identity of the driver cannot be determined, the owner or person in whose name
the vehicle is registered shall be held prima facie responsible for the
violation.
(Prior Code, § 72.09) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.10 PARKING IN PARKS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to park any motor vehicle in or on any
section of any public park, playground, play lot, or tot lot within the city
not designed as a parking area or designed and regularly maintained as a
roadway. However, nothing contained in this section shall be construed as
prohibiting the parking of a motor vehicle parallel to a designated and
regularly maintained roadway in any such park or playground where at least two
wheels of the motor vehicle are resting on such roadway.
(Prior Code, § 72.10) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.11 DISPLAY OF PARKED VEHICLE FOR SALE.
   It shall be unlawful to park a motor vehicle displayed for sale or a motor
vehicle on which demonstrations are being made on any street.
(Prior Code, § 72.11) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.12 PARKING WITH PERMITS FOR PERSONS WITH DISABILITIES.
   (A)   Any other provision to the contrary notwithstanding, a motor vehicle
bearing a decal in its front windshield issued by the County Clerk pursuant to
appropriate county ordinances for persons with disabilities when operated by a
person with disabilities or when transporting a person with disabilities may be
parked in a designated parking place for persons with disabilities or when
parked in a metered parking space may be parked for two hours for no fee, or
when parked where any parking limit is imposed may be parked for two hours in
excess of the parking limit. The motor vehicle may be parked in a loading zone
for that period of time necessary to permit entrance or exit of the person with
disabilities to or from the parked vehicle, but in no circumstances longer than
30 minutes.
   (B)   This section shall not permit parking in a “no stopping” or “no
parking” zone nor where parking is prohibited for the purpose of creating a
fire lane or to accommodate heavy traffic during morning, afternoon, or evening
hours, nor permit a motor vehicle to be parked in such a manner as to
constitute a traffic hazard.   
   (C)   No person shall park in a designated disabled parking area in a motor
vehicle not displaying either a disabled auto registration plate as provided in
KRS 186.042 or an out-of-state disabled registration plate on the rear of the
vehicle unless he or she displays on the rear view mirror of his or her motor
vehicle a special parking permit as described in divisions (A) and (B) above,
issued to the disabled. No person shall park a vehicle displaying such a
special parking permit in a designated disabled parking area when such vehicle
is not being used for the benefit of a disabled person.
(KRS 189.456(7)) (Prior Code, § 72.12) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.13 TWO-HOUR PARKING AREAS.
   (A)   The parking meter system of the city is hereby abolished, and the
removal of all parking meter devices from the zones they presently occupy is
authorized.
   (B)   There is hereby established a two-hour parking limit system in the
areas formerly designated by the parking meters. This system is to be enforced
by the Chief of Police.
   (C)   Signs in the designated areas, proclaiming the two-hour parking limit,
shall be installed. Also, the painting of lines on the streets in these areas
shall be accomplished and each vehicle shall then park within these lines or
markings. It shall be unlawful to park any vehicle across any such line or
marking or to leave any vehicle parked for a period exceeding the specified
time limit of two hours wherever there are the appropriate signs or lines.
(Prior Code, § 72.13) (Ord. 540.7, passed 1-2-1978) Penalty, see §
72.99
IMPOUNDING
§ 72.25 IMPOUNDMENT OF VEHICLES AUTHORIZED; REDEMPTION.
   (A)   All police officers are empowered to authorize the impoundment of a
vehicle violating vehicle-related ordinances after a citation has been issued.
   (B)   A vehicle slated for impoundment will be tagged and placed under
control of the Police Department. Should a vehicle be moved without the consent
and approval of the Police Department a warrant shall be issued immediately for
the violator’s arrest.
   (C)   All fines, fees, and charges must be paid in full before a release of
impoundment can be issued for the vehicle’s release.
(Prior Code, § 72.20)
§ 72.26 REQUIRED NOTICE TO OWNER.
   (A)   When a motor vehicle has been involuntarily towed or transported
pursuant to order of police, other public authority, or private person or
business for any reason or when the vehicle has been stolen or misappropriated
and its removal from the public ways has been ordered by police, other public
authority, or by private person or business, or in any other situation where a
motor vehicle has been involuntarily towed or transported by order of police,
other authority, or by private person or business, the police, other authority,
or private person or business shall attempt to ascertain from the State
Transportation Cabinet the identity of the registered owner of the motor
vehicle or lessor of a motor carrier as defined in KRS Chapter 281 and within
ten business days of the removal shall, by certified mail, attempt to notify
the registered owner at the address of record of the make, model, license
number, and vehicle identification number of the vehicle, of the location of
the vehicle, and of the requirements for securing the release of the motor
vehicle.
   (B)   In the event that a vehicle described in division (A) above is placed
in a garage or other storage facility, the owner of the facility shall attempt
to provide the notice provided in division (A) above by certified mail to the
registered owner at the address of record of the motor vehicle or lessor of a
motor carrier as defined in KRS Chapter 281 within ten business days of
recovery of, or taking possession of the motor vehicle. This notice shall
contain the information as to the make, model, license number, and vehicle
identification number of the vehicle, the location of the vehicle, and the
amount of reasonable charges due on the vehicle. When the owner of the facility
fails to provide notice as provided herein, the motor vehicle storage facility
shall forfeit all storage fees accrued after ten business days from the date of
tow. This division (B) shall not apply to a tow lot or storage facility owned
or operated by the city.
(KRS 376.275(1),(2)) (Prior Code, § 72.21)
§ 72.27 SALE OF VEHICLE.
   Any person engaged in the business of storing or towing motor vehicles in
either a private capacity or for the city who has substantially complied with
the requirements of §
72.26 of this subchapter shall have a lien on the motor vehicle for the
reasonable or agreed charges for storing or towing the vehicle as long as it
remains in his or her possession. If after a period of 60 days, the reasonable
or agreed charges for storing or towing a motor vehicle have not been paid, the
motor vehicle may be sold to pay the charges after the owner has been notified
by certified mail ten days prior to the time and place of the sale. Should the
proceeds of the sale of any vehicle pursuant to this section be insufficient to
satisfy accrued charges for towing, transporting, and/or storage, said sale and
collection of proceeds shall not constitute a waiver or release of
responsibility for payment of unpaid towing, transporting, and/or storage
charges by the owner or responsible casualty insurer of the vehicle. This lien
shall be subject to prior recorded liens.
(KRS 376.275(3)) (Prior Code, § 72.22)
SNOW EMERGENCY
§ 72.40 ANNOUNCEMENT OF SNOW EMERGENCY.
   Whenever the Chief of Police or other authorized city official finds that
falling snow, sleet, or freezing rain will create a condition which makes it
necessary that the parking of motor vehicles on snow emergency routes be
prohibited, or whenever he or she finds on the basis of a firm forecast of
snow, sleet, or freezing rain that the weather conditions so forecasted may
create a condition making it necessary that such parking be prohibited, he or
she is authorized to announce such prohibition, to become effective at a time
specified by him or her. After the effective time of such prohibition, no
person shall park any vehicle or permit any vehicle to remain parked on a snow
emergency route. However, if a fall of snow, sleet, or freezing rain occurs
after 11:00 p.m. and prior to 6:00 a.m., and the Chief of Police or other
authorized city official has not announced prior to 11:00 p.m. that parking on
snow emergency routes is to be prohibited after a specified time, a vehicle
parked on a snow emergency route may remain so parked until 7:00 a.m. following
such fall. The prohibition of parking announced by the Chief of Police or other
authorized city official under the authority of this section shall remain in
effect until he or she announces the termination of the snow emergency, in part
or in whole, after which the prohibition of parking authorized by this section
shall no longer be in effect.
(Prior Code, § 72.35) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.41 TERMINATION OF EMERGENCY.
   Whenever the Chief of Police or other authorized city official shall find
that some or all of the conditions which gave rise to the snow emergency
prohibition no longer exist, he or she is authorized to declare the termination
of the emergency, in part or in whole, effective immediately on announcement.
If such announcement is made other than between 6:00 a.m. and 11:00 p.m., it
shall be repeated between those hours.
(Prior Code, § 72.36)
§ 72.42 SNOW EMERGENCY ROUTES.
   The term SNOW EMERGENCY ROUTE shall mean any route designated by the Chief
of Police or other authorized city official. On such street or highway
designated as a snow emergency route, special signs shall be posted to this
effect.
(Prior Code, § 72.37)
§ 72.99 PENALTY.
   Any person receiving a citation for any parking violation in the city shall
be fined in an amount not less than $20 nor more than $100.
(KRS 189.990(1)) (Prior Code, § 72.99)
CHAPTER 73: BICYCLES, MOTORCYCLES, AND RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
Section
   
73.01   Operation of bicycles
   
73.02   Operation of motorcycles and motorscooters
   
73.03   Skating and coasting
   
73.04   Clinging to vehicles
   
73.05   Golf carts and other slow moving vehicles
 
   
73.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Required obedience to traffic directions, see §
70.02
§ 73.01 OPERATION OF BICYCLES.
   (A)   No person shall operate a bicycle on the sidewalks of the city in the
downtown business district.
   (B)   No person shall operate a bicycle on any section of a public park,
playground, play lot, or tot lot, except on a roadway or in a parking area.
   (C)   No operator of any bicycle shall carry another person on such bicycle.
(Prior Code, § 73.01) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.02 OPERATION OF MOTORCYCLES AND MOTORSCOOTERS.
   (A)   No operator of any motorcycle, motorscooter, or power-driven bicycle
shall carry another person except on a seat attached thereto or in a side car
attached to the vehicle.
   (B)   No operator of a motorcycle, motorscooter, or power-driven bicycle
shall operate such vehicle in any public park, except on a roadway or in a
parking area.
   (C)   No operator of a motorcycle, motorscooter, or power-driven bicycle
shall operate such vehicle in any play lot or tot lot.
(Prior Code, § 73.02) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.03 SKATING AND COASTING.
   Except on streets which may be declared from time to time as “play streets”
by the city and protected by barriers or official signs, it shall be unlawful
for any person on skates or riding on a coaster sled or toy vehicle of any
kind, to go on any roadway except at a crosswalk.
(Prior Code, § 73.03) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.04 CLINGING TO VEHICLES.
   (A)   No person while riding on a bicycle, coaster sled, roller skates, or
any toy vehicle shall cling to any moving vehicle on any street, or fasten or
attach the vehicle on which he or she is riding thereto.
   (B)   No person shall ride on the projection, running board, or fenders of
any vehicle.
(Prior Code, § 73.04) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.05 GOLF CARTS AND OTHER SLOW MOVING VEHICLES.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      GOLF CART. Any self-propelled vehicle that:
         (a)   Is designed for the transportation of players or maintaining
equipment on a golf course, while engaged in the playing of golf, supervising
the play of golf, or maintaining the condition of the grounds on a golf course;
         (b)   Has a minimum of four wheels;
         (c)   Is designed to operate at a speed of not more than 35 mph;
         (d)   Is designed to carry not more than six persons, including the
driver;
         (e)   Has a maximum gross vehicle weight of 2,500 pounds;
         (f)   Has a maximum rated payload capacity of 1,200 pounds; and
         (g)   Meets the federal motor vehicle safety standards for low-speed
vehicles set forth in 49 C.F.R. § 571.500.
      SLOW MOVING VEHICLE. A vehicle or a group of vehicles which are generally
always operated on a street, highway, or roadway at a speed slower than that of
other motorized traffic and vehicles. SLOW MOVING VEHICLES include golf carts,
lawn and garden equipment, utility type vehicles, ATVs, and other off-road
vehicles. SLOW MOVING VEHICLES do not include farm vehicles, farm equipment,
bicycles, mopeds, disabled vehicles, or personal mobility devices, such as
motorized wheel chairs.
   (B)   A golf cart operated pursuant to this section on a designated public
roadway shall:
      (1)   Be issued a permit for the golf cart by the city;
      (2)   Display a sticker or permit that identifies that the golf cart is
allowed to be operated on specific roadways within the city; and
      (3)   Be inspected by a certified inspector designated by the County
Sheriff and certified through the Department of Vehicle Regulation to ensure
that the golf cart complies with the requirements of KRS 189.286. The
inspection fee under this division (B)(3) shall not exceed $5 with an
additional fee not to exceed $10 per trip charged if it becomes necessary for
the certified inspector to travel to the site of the golf cart rather than
having the golf cart brought to the Sheriff’s inspection area.
   (C)   A person may operate a golf cart on a public roadway pursuant to this
section if:
      (1)   The posted speed limit of the designated public roadway is 25 mph
or less;
      (2)   The operator of the golf cart does not cross a roadway at an
intersection where the roadway being crossed has a posted speed limit of more
than 25 mph;
      (3)   The operator has a valid operator’s license in his or her
possession;
      (4)   The golf cart is being operated between sunrise and sunset; and
      (5)   The golf cart displays a slow-moving vehicle emblem in compliance
with KRS 189.820.
   (D)   A golf cart operating on a public roadway under this section shall be
ensured in compliance with KRS 304.39-080 by the owner or operator, and the
proof of insurance shall be inside the golf cart at all times of operation on a
public roadway.
   (E)   Any person operating a golf cart on a public roadway under the
provisions of this section shall be subject to the traffic regulations of KRS
Chapter 189.
   (F)   (1)   The following roadways are designated and open for golf cart
use: Center Street, Oak Street, Seventh Street, Fifth Street, Claridge Street,
N. and S. Park Street, and Ferry Street.
      (2)   Golf cart use is prohibited on all other roadways.
   (G)   A golf cart operating on a public roadway designated by the city under
this section is not considered to be a motor vehicle and is exempt from:
      (1)   Title requirements of KRS 186.020;
      (2)   Vehicle registration requirements of KRS 186.050; and
      (3)   Emissions compliance certificates pursuant to KRS 224.20-720.
   (H)   The Transportation Cabinet may prohibit the operation of a golf cart
on a public roadway designated under this section that crosses a state-
maintained highway under its jurisdiction if it determines that such
prohibition is necessary in the interest of public safety.
   (I)   No person shall operate a slow moving vehicle on a street, highway, or
roadway within the city limits from 7:00 p.m. to 6:00 a.m.
(Ord. 2016.09.2, passed 9-19-2016; Ord. 2018-12.01, passed 12-17-2018) Penalty,
see §
73.99
§ 73.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Whoever violates §§
73.01 through
73.04 shall be fined not more than $50.
   (B)   Any violation of §
73.05 shall constitute a violation and shall be subject to a fine of not less
than $25 nor more than $500.
(Prior Code, § 73.99) (Ord. 2018-12.01, passed 12-17-2018)
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   ANIMALS
      
91.   STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
      
92.   NUISANCES
      
93.   FIREWORKS; FIRE PREVENTION
      
94.   LITTERING
      
95.   BOAT RAMP
      
96.   PARKS AND RECREATION
CHAPTER 90: ANIMALS
Section
General Provisions
   
90.01   Definitions
   
90.02   Animals running at large
   
90.03   Rabies vaccination required
   
90.04   Authority to order animal muzzled or confined
   
90.05   Keeping and riding of livestock in city restricted
   
90.06   Abandoning domestic animals prohibited
Dogs
   
90.20   Definitions
   
90.21   Restraint and control of dog required; noise disturbance
   
90.22   Impoundment
   
90.23   Registration required
   
90.24   Vicious dogs
 
   
90.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 90.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AT LARGE. Off the premises of the owner, and not under the control of the
owner or his or her agent either by leash, cord, chain, or otherwise.
   OWNER. Every person having a right of property to an animal and every person
who keeps or harbors an animal, has it in his or her care, or permits it to
remain on or about the premises owned or occupied by him or her.
(Prior Code, § 90.01)
§ 90.02 ANIMALS RUNNING AT LARGE.
   (A)   No person who is the owner of any animal shall permit it to run at
large in any public road, highway, street, lane, or alley, or upon unenclosed
land, or permit it to go on any private yard, lot, or enclosure without the
consent of the owner of the yard, lot, or enclosure.
   (B)   The owner of an animal who permits it to run at large in violation of
this section is liable for all damages caused by such animal upon the premises
of another.
(Prior Code, § 90.02) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.03 RABIES VACCINATION REQUIRED.
   It shall be a violation of this chapter for any person to own, possess,
harbor, or keep any dog or cat within the city limits unless that animal is
vaccinated against rabies in compliance with KRS 258.015. For the purposes of
this chapter, any peace officer, as defined by KRS 446.010statutory, shall have
authority to enter upon private property only for the purpose of taking into
custody any unvaccinated or unlicensed dog, any dog found at large within the
city, or any dog found upon the property of another other than the owner of the
dog. It shall be unlawful for any person to interfere with such officer in such
endeavors.
(Prior Code, § 90.03) (Ord. 840.101, passed 3-10-1986) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.04 AUTHORITY TO ORDER ANIMAL MUZZLED OR CONFINED.
   The Mayor, when he or she considers it in the best interests of the public
safety and welfare of the citizens of the city, may by proclamation, cause all
dogs and/or cats to be securely muzzled or confined for a reasonable length of
time.
(Prior Code, § 90.04) (Ord. 840.101, passed 3-10-1986) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.05 KEEPING AND RIDING OF LIVESTOCK IN CITY RESTRICTED.
   (A)   No person shall own, possess, keep, maintain, harbor, or have the care
of any horse, pony, cattle, livestock, sheep, goat, or other farm animal,
except as excluded herein, within the city unless the area is designated as
agriculture as specified in the zoning regulations or any lot of two acres of
more.
   (B)   It shall be a violation of this chapter to ride any horse, pony, or
other livestock upon public sidewalk within the city limits.
   (C)   Exceptions pertaining to poultry. Keeping poultry may be permitted
subject to the following restrictions, prohibitions, and conditions:
      (1)   Poultry shall be kept or housed outside of a habitable structure in
a chicken/duck enclosure (pen, run, and the like) that must include a covered
coop structure.
      (2)   An enclosure shall provide a minimum of four square feet per animal
up to a maximum size of 50 feet by 50 feet with the coop contained within the
enclosure.
      (3)   Food storage shall be kept in airtight, predator and rodent proof
and weatherproof containers.
      (4)   Roosters shall not be kept, maintained, or harbored and no permit
shall be issued for same.
      (5)   There shall be a permit fee of $15, renewable and paid each year by
the applicant. There will be a maximum of ten poultry allowed. As part of the
permit process and at time of application, the applicant shall provide a site
drawing showing the location of the proposed coop in relation to the
applicant’s real property line boundaries. Final permit approval shall be
subject to inspection by the code enforcement officer of the city.
      (6)   Any permit issued shall not be assignable or assumable to any other
party. A permit shall expire upon the sale or other transfer of the property or
if the permit holder ceases to reside at the property for which the permit was
granted.
      (7)   The coop/enclosure shall be well maintained and regularly cleaned
to control dust, odor, and waste in order to keep from being a nuisance, safety
hazard or health problem to surrounding properties. As part of proper
maintenance, the permit holder must remove any poultry waste on a regular
basis, at least biweekly, and dispose of it in a proper manner. Waste includes
excrement, uneaten feed, feathers, or other waste items. If the enclosure and
coop are not maintained as provided for herein and results in the occurrence of
a nuisance, the code enforcement officer designee of the city may treat the
nuisance as any other nuisance pursuant to existing regulation or ordinance
regardless of the existence of a valid permit. In the event a permit is
invalidated or terminated as result of a violation of this section, there shall
be no refund of fees paid by the permit owner.
      (8)   Any permit may be revoked upon finding of any violation by any
person of any provisions contained herein. Any complainant to the city of a
potential violation of this section shall make his or her complaint in writing
specifically detailing said complaint and sign his or her signature to same.
(Prior Code, § 90.05) (Ord. 840.101, passed 3-10-1986; Ord. 2011.11- 01, passed
9-19-2012; Ord. 2023.08.02, passed 8-21-2023) Penalty, see §  
90.99
§ 90.06 ABANDONING DOMESTIC ANIMALS PROHIBITED.
   No owner of a domestic animal shall abandon the animal in the city.
(Ord. 2011.11-01, passed 9-19-2012) Penalty, see §
90.99
DOGS
§ 90.20 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DOG. Any member of the canine family, six months of age or over, male or
female.
   DOG POUND. The county dog pound.
   DOG WARDEN. The county dog warden.
   OWNER. Any person, partnership, or corporation that owns, keeps, or harbors
a dog.
   RESTRAINED. A dog which is:
      (1)   Kept upon the premises of its owner;
      (2)   Confined within an enclosure from which it cannot escape; or
      (3)   Firmly secured by means of a collar and chain or other device so
that it cannot stray beyond the control of a person accompanying the dog off of
the owner’s premises.
(Prior Code, § 90.15)
§ 90.21 RESTRAINT AND CONTROL OF DOG REQUIRED; NOISE DISTURBANCE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the owner or keeper of any dog, regardless of
the age of the dog, to allow the dog to be at large and unattended or to run in
any street, park, lawn, garden, schoolyard, playground, or on any other public
or private property.
   (B)   No person shall keep or harbor any dog within the city which by
frequent and habitual barking, howling, or yelping, creates unreasonably loud
and disturbing noises of such a character, intensity, and duration so as to
disturb the peace, quiet, and good order of one or more of the inhabitants of
two or more separate residencies. Any person who shall allow any dog habitually
to remain, be lodged, or fed within any dwelling, yard, or enclosure which he
or she occupies or owns shall be considered as harboring the dog.
   (C)   Every police officer, peace officer, or other authorized official
shall have the authority to apprehend any dog running at large in the city in
violation of any of the city’s ordinances relating to animals and to impound
such dog or have such dog impounded in the appropriate place.
(Prior Code, § 90.16) (Ord. 840.101, passed 3-10-1986; Ord. 2011.11-01, passed
9-19-2012) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.22 IMPOUNDMENT.
   (A)   Dogs which are not restrained in accordance with §
90.02 of this chapter may be impounded by the county dog warden to the county
dog pound or other authorized county animal shelter and there confined
according to county regulations until and unless claimed by its owner.
   (B)   The dog’s owner shall be responsible for any and all fines, fees,
boarding fees, and the like.
(Prior Code, § 90.17) (Ord. 94.3-4, passed 4-11-1994) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.23 REGISTRATION REQUIRED.
   (A)   All dogs as much as six months old shall be registered within 30 days
of acquisition.
   (B)   Dogs less than six months of age shall be registered before that
animal reaches the age of six months.
   (C)   Registration shall consist of furnishing to the office of the City
Clerk-Treasurer on an annual basis, a record of the animal’s vital statistics
including:
      (1)   Dog’s name, age, sex, and breed;
      (2)   Dog’s shot record; and
      (3)   Owner’s name, address, and phone number.
   (D)   Upon receipt of the above information, the owner shall be issued a tag
that is to be attached to the dog’s collar certifying its registration. The fee
for the registration is to be $2 plus a fee of $1.50 for each tag issued.
   (E)   Any dog that does not have its registration tag affixed to its collar
will also be subject to impoundment and its owner subject to citation and fine.
(Prior Code, § 90.18) (Ord. 94.3-4, passed 4-11-1994) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.24 VICIOUS DOGS.
   Any dog that exhibits a vicious nature by the unprovoked attack of any human
being or domesticated animal, and/or against which a valid and proven complaint
is registered, shall be designated a “vicious animal” and will be removed from
the city limits.
(Prior Code, § 90.19) (Ord. 94.3-4, passed 4-11-1994) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter shall be guilty of a
violation and shall be fined not less than $20 nor more than $100 for each
offense. Each day the violation exists shall constitute a separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 90.99) (Ord. 840.101, passed 3-10-1986; Ord. 2011.11-01, passed
9-19-2012)
CHAPTER 91: STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
Section
Excavations and Construction
   
91.01   Opening permit required
   
91.02   Application and cash deposit
   
91.03   Restoration of pavement
   
91.04   Barriers around excavations
   
91.05   Warning lights
   
91.06   Sidewalk construction
Road and Bridge Projects
   
91.20   Public meeting required
   
91.21   Notice requirements; public comments
   
91.22   Effect of comments
   
91.23   Meeting to be held prior to construction
   
91.24   Separate meeting for each project not required
   
91.25   Exemption from meeting requirement
Obstructions
   
91.40   Unloading on street or sidewalk
   
91.41   Street and sidewalk obstruction
   
91.42   Materials on street or sidewalk
   
91.43   Removal of ice and snow
 
   
91.99   Penalty
EXCAVATIONS AND CONSTRUCTION
§ 91.01 OPENING PERMIT REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, other than an authorized city official,
to make any opening in any street, alley, sidewalk, or public way of the city
unless a permit to make the opening has been obtained prior to commencement of
the work.
(Prior Code, § 91.01) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.02 APPLICATION AND CASH DEPOSIT.
   Each permit for making an opening shall be confined to a single project and
shall be issued by the authorized city official. Application shall be made on a
form prescribed by the City Council, giving the exact location of the proposed
opening, the kind of paving, the area and depth to be excavated, and such other
facts as may be provided for. The permit shall be issued only after a cash
deposit sufficient to cover the cost of restoration has been posted with the
authorized city official, conditioned upon prompt and satisfactory refilling of
excavations and restoration of all surfaces disturbed.
(Prior Code, § 91.02)
§ 91.03 RESTORATION OF PAVEMENT.
   (A)   The opening and restoration of a pavement or other surface shall be
performed under the direction and to the satisfaction of the authorized city
official, and in accordance with rules, regulations, and specifications
approved by the City Council.
   (B)   Upon failure or refusal of the permittee satisfactorily to fill the
excavation, restore the surface, and remove all excess materials within the
time specified in the permit or where not specified therein, within a
reasonable time after commencement of the work, the city may proceed without
notice to make such fill and restoration and the deposit referred to in §
91.02 of this subchapter shall be forfeited. Thereupon, the deposit shall be
paid into the appropriate city fund, except such part demanded and paid to the
permittee as the difference between the deposit and the charges of the city for
restoration services performed by it. If the amount of such services performed
by the city should exceed the amount of the deposit, the City Clerk-Treasurer
or other proper administrative officer shall proceed to collect the remainder
due from the permittee.
(Prior Code, § 91.03)
§ 91.04 BARRIERS AROUND EXCAVATIONS.
   Any person engaged in or employing others in excavating or opening any
street, sidewalk, alley, or other public way shall have the excavation or
opening fully barricaded at all times to prevent injury to persons or animals.
(Prior Code, § 91.04) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.05 WARNING LIGHTS.
   Any person engaged in or employing others in excavating or otherwise in any
manner obstructing a portion or all of any street, sidewalk, alley, or other
public way, at all times during the night season shall install and maintain at
least two illuminated red lamps which shall be securely and conspicuously
posted on, at, or near each end of the obstruction or excavation, and if the
space involved exceeds 50 feet in extent, at least one additional lamp for each
added 50 feet or portion thereof excavated or obstructed.
(Prior Code, § 91.05) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.06 SIDEWALK CONSTRUCTION.
   It shall be the duty of the authorized city official to supervise
construction or repair of sidewalks within the city. He or she shall cause
specifications to be prepared for the construction of the various kinds of
pavements and transmit the specifications to the City Council for approval.
When the specifications are approved, the City Council shall advertise for
proposals to do all the work which may be ordered by the city in construction
and repair of sidewalks, and shall authorize the Mayor to contract therefor,
for a period not exceeding one year, with the lowest responsible bidder, who
shall furnish good and sufficient sureties for the faithful performance of the
work. The Mayor, if authorized by City Council, may make separate contracts for
the different kinds of work with different parties.
(Prior Code, § 91.06)
ROAD AND BRIDGE PROJECTS
§ 91.20 PUBLIC MEETING REQUIRED.
   Before the city expends state derived tax revenues on a municipal highway,
road, street, or bridge, it shall provide an opportunity to the public to
provide input in a public meeting for which notice has been given under KRS
61.823(2) to (4) with regard to the project and to priorities for use of tax
moneys for road and bridge purposes.
(KRS 174.100(1)) (Prior Code, § 91.15)
§ 91.21 NOTICE REQUIREMENTS; PUBLIC COMMENTS.
   Prior to the contemplated date of the expenditure of state derived tax
revenues on a road or bridge by the city, the city shall include the topic as a
specific item on the public meeting agenda and shall allow any person to speak
with regard to any proposed project, any project which he or she feels should
be built or done which has not been proposed, priorities for completion of
projects, and any other matter related to road or bridge projects.
(KRS 174.100(2)) (Prior Code, § 91.16)
§ 91.22 EFFECT OF COMMENTS.
   The city shall not be bound by the comments and input provided at the
meeting but shall give due consideration to them.
(KRS 174.100(3)) (Prior Code, § 91.17)
§ 91.23 MEETING TO BE HELD PRIOR TO CONSTRUCTION.
   The city shall not begin construction on a road or bridge project in which
state derived tax revenues are involved until the meeting as provided in this
subchapter has been held.
(KRS 174.100(4)) (Prior Code, § 91.18)
§ 91.24 SEPARATE MEETING FOR EACH PROJECT NOT REQUIRED.
   This subchapter shall not be construed to require a separate meeting for
each project. A single meeting encompassing the entire road and bridge program,
provided all projects subsequently undertaken have been identified at the
meeting, shall meet the requirements of this subchapter.
(KRS 174.100(5)) (Prior Code, § 91.19)
§ 91.25 EXEMPTION FROM MEETING REQUIREMENT.
   The provisions of this subchapter shall not apply to emergency repair or
replacement of roads or bridges necessitated by natural or human-caused
disasters nor to street cleaning or snow removal operations.
(KRS 174.100(6)) (Prior Code, § 91.20)
OBSTRUCTIONS
§ 91.40 UNLOADING ON STREET OR SIDEWALK.
   No person shall unload any heavy material in the streets of the city by
throwing or letting the material fall upon the pavement of any street, alley,
sidewalk, or other public way, without first placing some sufficient protection
over the pavement.
(Prior Code, § 91.30) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.41 STREET AND SIDEWALK OBSTRUCTION.
   No person shall obstruct any street, alley, sidewalk, or other public way
within the city by erecting thereon any fence or building, or permitting any
fence or building to remain thereon. Each day that any fence or building is
permitted to remain upon the public way shall constitute a separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 91.31) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.42 MATERIALS ON STREET OR SIDEWALK.
   No person shall encumber any street or sidewalk. No owner, occupant, or
person having the care of any building or lot of land, bordering on any street
or sidewalk, shall permit it to be encumbered with barrels, boxes, cans,
articles, or substances of any kind, so as to interfere with the free and
unobstructed use thereof.
(Prior Code, § 91.32) Penalty, see §
91.99
Cross-reference:
   Littering on streets or sidewalks, see
Chapter 94
§ 91.43 REMOVAL OF ICE AND SNOW.
   It shall be the duty of the owner or of the occupant of each and every
parcel of real estate in the city abutting upon any sidewalk to keep the
sidewalk abutting his or her premises free and clear of snow and ice to the
extent feasible under the prevailing weather conditions, and to remove
therefrom all snow and ice, to the extent feasible under the prevailing weather
conditions, accumulated thereon within a reasonable time which will ordinarily
not exceed 12 hours after the abatement of any storm during which the snow and
ice may have accumulated.
(Prior Code, § 91.33) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter shall, upon conviction, be
fined not more than $500.
(Prior Code, § 91.99)
CHAPTER 92: NUISANCES
Section
General Provisions
   
92.01   Definitions
   
92.02   Nuisances prohibited
   
92.03   Certain conditions declared a nuisance
   
92.04   Petition
   
92.05   Abatement procedure
   
92.06   Costs and liens
   
92.07   Enforcement officer
Vacant, Abandoned, Dilapidated, Unsafe, and Unhealthy Properties
   
92.15   Enforcement of lien
   
92.16   Determination of vacancy and abandonment
   
92.17   Sale of vacant or abandoned property
   
92.18   Confirmation of sale
   
92.19   Conveyance of property
 
   
92.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 92.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CITY. The city of Cloverport, Kentucky.
   COUNCIL. The City Council of the city.
   NUISANCE. Any person doing an unlawful act, or omitting to perform a duty,
or suffering or permitting any condition or thing to be or exist, which act,
omission, condition, or thing either:
      (1)   Injures or endangers the comfort, repose, health, or safety of
others;
      (2)   Offends decency;
      (3)   Is offensive to the senses;
      (4)   Interferes with, obstructs, or tends to obstruct or renders
dangerous for passage any public or private street, highway, sidewalk, stream,
ditch, or drainage;
      (5)   In any way renders other persons insecure in life or the use of
property; or
      (6)   Interferes with the comfortable enjoyment of life and property, or
tends to depreciate the value of the property of others.
   PARTIES IN INTEREST. All individuals, associations, and corporations who
have interests of record in a structure and any who are in possession thereof.
   PROPERTY OWNER. The holder of the title in fee simple and of every mortgage
of record of the property which is made subject to the provisions of this
chapter.
(Prior Code, § 92.01) (Ord. 95.8-1, passed 8-21-1995)
§ 92.02 NUISANCES PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to cause, permit, maintain, or allow the
creation or maintenance of a nuisance.
(Prior Code, § 92.02) (Ord. 95.8-1, passed 8-21-1995) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.03 CERTAIN CONDITIONS DECLARED A NUISANCE.
   The maintaining, using, placing, depositing, leaving, or permitting to be or
remain on any public or private property of any of the following items,
conditions, or actions are hereby declared to be and constitute a nuisance;
however, this enumeration shall not be deemed or construed to be conclusive,
limiting, or restrictive:
   (A)   The excessive growth of weeds, grass, and other vegetation.
“Excessive” shall mean growth to a height of ten inches or more;
   (B)   Accumulation of rubbish, trash, refuse, junk, and other abandoned
materials, metals, lumber, or other things;
   (C)   Any condition which provides harborage for rats, mice, snakes, and
other vermin;
   (D)   Any building or other structure which is in such a dilapidated
condition that it is unfit for human habitation, or kept in such an unsanitary
condition that it is a menace to the health of people residing in the vicinity
thereof, or presents a more than ordinarily dangerous fire hazard in the
vicinity where it is located;
   (E)   All unnecessary or unauthorized noises and annoying vibration,
including animal noises;
   (F)   All disagreeable or obnoxious odors and stenches, as well as the
conditions, substances, or other causes which give rise to the emission or
generation of such odors and stenches;
   (G)   The carcasses of animals or fowl not disposed of within a reasonable
time after death;
   (H)   The pollution of any public well or cistern, stream, lake, canal, or
body of water by sewage, dead animals, creamery, industrial wastes, or other
substances;
   (I)   Any building, structure, or other place or location where any activity
which is in violation of local, state, or federal law is conducted, performed,
or maintained;
   (J)   Any accumulation of stagnant water permitted or maintained on any lot
or piece of ground;
   (K)   Dense smoke, noxious fumes, gas, soot, or cinders, in unreasonable
quantities;
   (L)   Any dead trees on or near a public right-of-way;
   (M)   Any grass in residentially or commercially zoned areas greater than 12
inches;
   (N)   The leaving of garbage/trash cans at curbside for longer than 24 hours
after garbage/trash pick-up by the city franchisee;
   (O)   Any building or other structure which is not maintained in a safe and
sanitary manner and condition such that is constitutes a danger to the health
or safety of people residing in the vicinity thereof;
   (P)   Any dwelling, structure, building, or premises which is unreasonably
dirty and on which there is an accumulation of trash, filth, rubbish, or
similar matter;
   (Q)   A building or structure which has parts attached thereto for which
there is a reasonable risk that any such parts may fall and injure members of
the public or any adjacent property; or
   (R)   Any building or structure which has any conditions with regards with
the walls, floors, or roofs there such that the building or structure is likely
to fall on account thereof, thereby endangering the safety of its occupants
and/or the general public.
(Prior Code, § 92.03) (Ord. 95.8-1, passed 8-21-1995; Ord. 2007-06.02, passed
6-18-2007; Ord. 2014-04.01, passed 4-21-2014; Ord. 2020.10.08, passed 10-19-
2020) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.04 PETITION.
   A petition may be filed by an individual or group of individuals with the
proper authorities or representatives of the city charging that a public
nuisance, health hazard, or source of filth through the accumulation of rubbish
or the excessive growth of weeds or grass exists on any land within the city.
(Prior Code, § 92.04) (Ord. 95.8-1, passed 8-21-1995)
§ 92.05 ABATEMENT PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Whenever a public nuisance, health hazard, or source of filth is found
or discovered within the city, the authorized city official or other only
designated officer, the Chief of Police or the Fire Department Chief of the
city shall give a seven-day written notice to the owner and the occupant of the
property upon which such nuisance, health hazard, or source of filth exists or
upon the person causing or maintaining the nuisance, health hazard, or source
of filth to abate, correct, or remedy such condition. The notice shall be sent
by certified mail, return receipt requested, to the last known address of the
owner and the occupant of property as it appears on the current tax assessment
roll or by personal service thereon by a law enforcement officer upon the owner
and occupant of the property. Said property owner and the occupant of said
property shall then have seven days from the date of receipt of said notice to
abate, correct, or remedy the nuisance, health hazard, or source of filth. If
the nature of the nuisance, health hazard, or source of filth condition is such
that a longer period of time would be required to abate, correct, or remedy the
condition, an extension may be granted giving additional time for an offender
to abate, correct, or remedy the nuisance, health hazard, or source of filth.
Said extension may be granted at the discretion of the Mayor of the city. In
addition, in the case of an unfit and unsafe building or structure, after the
expiration of the original notice period of seven days, plus any extension
period thereof, the property owner and the occupant shall be given an
additional 30-day written notice to remedy the situation, by certified mail,
return receipt requested, or by personal service thereof upon the owner and the
occupant by a law enforcement officer before any demolition of any unfit or
unsafe structure by the city occurs.
   (B)   A notice to abate, correct, or remedy a nuisance issued under the
provisions of this section shall contain:
      (1)   An order to abate, correct, or remedy the nuisance, health hazard,
or source of filth or request a meeting before the City Council within a stated
period of time, which shall be reasonable under the circumstances;
      (2)   A description of what constitutes a nuisance, health hazard, or
source of filth;
      (3)   A statement of the acts or measures necessary to abate the
nuisance; and
      (4)   A statement that if the nuisance, health hazard, or source of filth
is not abated, corrected, or remedied as directed, the city shall have the
right either to abate, correct, or remedy said condition upon the property, or
to levy a fine up to $500 a day on the offender until the nuisance is abated,
corrected, or remedied to the satisfaction of the city, or cause a criminal
citation or complaint to be issued against such person for a violation hereof.
This notice to remedy or abate a nuisance, health hazard, or source of filth
may be served as any other legal process which may be served pursuant to law.
   (C)   Upon the failure of an owner and/or occupant of property to comply
with the provisions of this section and to abate, remedy, or correct any public
nuisance, health hazard, or source of filth, the authorized city official,
Chief of Police, or Fire Department Chief of the city are also authorized to
send employees, agents, or representatives of the city upon the property to
take appropriate actions and measures to abate, correct, or remedy the
situation. In addition, such officer or officials may have issued a criminal
complaint or a criminal citation against said offender(s) for violation of this
section.
   (D)   If an additional period of time is requested by an offender of this
section to abate, correct, or remedy the condition, a limited period of time
may granted by the city, not to exceed 30 days, for such offender to abate,
correct, or remedy the nuisance, health hazard, or source of filth. At the end
of this 30-day period, the city may proceed to demolish any unsafe or unfit
structure which, at its discretion, it deems necessary to so demolish. Said
extension may be granted at the discretion of the Mayor of the city and City
Council in a written agreement accepted and approved by the Mayor, the City
Council, and the offender. In addition, the city shall also have the right to
levy a fine of up to $500 per day until the nuisance is abated, corrected, or
remedied, at the owner’s expense, satisfactorily to the city.
(Prior Code, § 92.05) (Ord. 95.8-1, passed 8-21-1995; Ord. 2007-06.02, passed
6-18-2007; Ord. 2020.10.08, passed 10-19-2020)
§ 92.06 COSTS AND LIENS.
   (A)   Upon the failure of an owner or occupant of property to comply with
the provisions of this chapter and to abate, remedy, or correct any public
nuisance, health hazard, or source of filth, the authorized city officials or
other duly designated officer of the city are authorized to send employees,
agents, or representatives of the city upon the property to take appropriate
actions and measures to abate, correct, or remedy the situation. In addition,
such officer or officials may have issued a criminal complaint or a criminal
citation for violation of this subchapter.
   (B)   The city shall have a lien against the property for the reasonable
value of the labor and materials it has used in correcting, remedying, or
abating the nuisance, health hazard, source of filth, or unfit and unsafe
structure condition. The affidavit of the Mayor shall constitute prima facie
evidence of the amount of the lien and the regularity of the proceedings
pursuant to the provisions of KRS 65.8801 et seq. and this subchapter, and
shall be recorded in the office of the County Clerk. The lien shall be notice
to all persons from the time of its recording and shall bear interest at a rate
of 6% per annum thereafter until paid in full. The lien created shall take
precedence over all other subsequent liens, except state, county, school board,
and city taxes, and may be enforced by judicial proceeding. In addition to this
remedy or any other remedy authorized by law, the owner of a property upon
which a lien has attached pursuant to this section shall be personally liable
for the amount of the lien, including all interest, civil penalties, and other
charges, and the city may bring a civil action against the owner and shall have
the same remedies as provided for the recovery of a debt owed.
   (C)   The provisions of this subchapter shall not apply to an owner,
occupant, or person having control or management of any property in the city if
the owner, occupant, or person having control or management of the property is
not the generator of the nuisance, health hazard, or source of filth, and is
not knowingly allowing such condition to exist and has made reasonable efforts
to prevent such condition from exiting upon said property.
(Prior Code, § 92.06) (Ord. 95.8-1, passed 8-21-1995; Ord. 2007-06.02, passed
6-18-2007)
§ 92.07 ENFORCEMENT OFFICER.
   The enumerated powers and authorization granted to the enforcement officer,
as his or her lawful right and privilege during those times it is convenient
and necessary, in the course of fulfilling those duties are as follows.
   (A)   The enforcement officer shall have the lawful privilege and right to
enter upon private property for the purpose of inspection of said premises.
   (B)   The enforcement officer shall have the lawful privilege and right to
make whatever inspections and use whatever methods seem reasonable and
necessary to him or her in the performance of his or her duties.
   (C)   The enforcement officer shall have the lawful privilege and right to
take pictures, make diagrams, maps, and the like as necessary in the
performance of his or her duties.
   (D)   The enforcement officer shall have all other powers necessary and
incidental to the performance of the duties and responsibilities which are
provided to him or her and enumerated herein.
   (E)   The rights and privileges of the enforcement officer shall be his or
her without fear or threat of reprisals, legal proceedings, prosecutions, or
causes of action against him or her so long as these rights and privileges are
exercised within the realm of his or her duties and responsibilities.
(Prior Code, § 92.07) (Ord. 95.11-1, passed 10-24-1995)
VACANT, ABANDONED, DILAPIDATED, UNSAFE, AND UNHEALTHY PROPERTIES
§ 92.15 ENFORCEMENT OF LIEN.
   The city may institute a legal action in the Kentucky Court of Justice to
enforce a lien against any real property located in the city, including a tax
lien for the nonpayment of city ad valorem taxes or a lien created as a result
of the city’s abatement of a nuisance within the city, as to property which has
been determined by a court to be vacant and abandoned property.
(Ord. 2022.06.01, passed 6-20-2022)
§ 92.16 DETERMINATION OF VACANCY AND ABANDONMENT.
   (A)   Real property shall be considered vacant and abandoned if there has
been no legal resident or other person legally entitled to occupy the property
residing at the property for a period of 45 or more consecutive days and two or
more of the following or similar circumstances exist which would lead a
reasonable person to believe that the property is vacant:
      (1)   Overgrown or dead vegetation;
      (2)   Accumulation of flyers, mail, trash or other garbage or filth;
      (3)   Disconnected utilities;
      (4)   The absence of window covers or furniture;
      (5)   Uncorrected hazardous conditions or vandalism; or
      (6)   Statements of neighbors, delivery persons, or government employees
that the property is vacant.
   (B)   Proof of vacancy and abandonment may be offered by way of an affidavit
filed at or after the time of the complaint by the city.
(Ord. 2022.06.01, passed 6-20-2022)
§ 92.17 SALE OF VACANT OR ABANDONED PROPERTY.
   If the Circuit Court makes a finding in the Court’s Order of Sale that the
property in question is vacant and abandoned, the Master Commissioner of the
Court shall sell the property within 70 days of the Order.
(Ord. 2022.06.01, passed 6-20-2022)
§ 92.18 CONFIRMATION OF SALE.
   The city, after obtaining a judgment and an Order of Sale in its favor,
shall apply for an Order confirming the sale within 20 days of the date of the
sale and, unless there have been exceptions to the report of the Master
Commissioner, the Court shall act on such application not later that the next
regularly scheduled civil motion or rule day.
(Ord. 2022.06.01, passed 6-20-2022)
§ 92.19 CONVEYANCE OF PROPERTY.
   The Master Commissioner shall make a conveyance of the property in question
on the date the Court confirms the sale, or as soon thereafter as all costs and
fees have been paid the city, or as soon as a third-party purchaser has paid
the purchase price.
(Ord. 2022.06.01, passed 6-20-2022)
§ 92.99 PENALTY.
   Any person, business, entity, firm, or corporation violating any of the
provisions of this chapter shall, upon a conviction thereof, be guilty of a
criminal violation, punishable by a fine of at least $100 but no more than $250
for each offense; and each day of failure thereafter to abate the nuisance by
repair, rehabilitation, demolition, or removal of such nuisance shall
constitute a separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 92.99) (Ord. 95.8-1, passed 8-21-1995; Ord. 2007-06.02, passed
6-18-2007; Ord. 2014-04.01, passed 4-21-2014)
CHAPTER 93: FIREWORKS; FIRE PREVENTION
Section
Fireworks
   
93.01   Applicable with federal, state, and local laws
   
93.02   Regulations
Fire Prevention
   
93.20   Blasting permit
   
93.21   Storage of flammables and other matter
 
   
93.99   Penalty
FIREWORKS
§ 93.01 APPLICABLE WITH FEDERAL, STATE, AND LOCAL LAWS.
   All fireworks must be handled, stored, used, possessed, and sold in
accordance with all applicable federal, state, and local laws.
(Ord. 2016-09.3, passed 9-19-2016)
§ 93.02 REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Fireworks may only be used, ignited, fired, or exploded between the
hours of 10:00 a.m. and 10:00 p.m., except that they may be used, ignited,
fired, or exploded between the hours 10:00 a.m. on December 31 to 12:00 a.m. on
January 1, and also between the hours of 10:00 a.m. and 12:00 a.m. on the
following dates or holidays: July 3, Independence Day (July 4), Memorial Day,
and the weekend of the Sacajawea Festival (Friday to Sunday).
   (B)   Notwithstanding any provision herein to the contrary, and regardless
of the day of the week on which July 4 falls, persons may use, ignite, fire, or
explode fireworks on any date specifically named or designated by the City
Council as the date to celebrate Independence Day for the city, if other than
the actual date of July 4 between the hours of 10:00 a.m. and 12:00 a.m.
   (C)   No person may use, ignite, fire, or explode any fireworks if they are
under the age of 18 years.
   (D)   Any person who is under the age of 18 years can only possess or use
any kind of fireworks if an adult (a person age 18 or older) is present and
directly supervising such possession or use by the minor (person under the age
of 18).
   (E)   Fireworks may only be used, ignited, fired, or exploded on the user’s
property, or on property owned by someone else who has consented to the use of
the fireworks on that property
(Ord. 2016-09.3, passed 9-19-2016) Penalty, see §
93.99
FIRE PREVENTION
§ 93.20 BLASTING PERMIT.
   No person shall cause a blast to occur within the city without making
application in writing beforehand, setting forth the exact nature of the
intended operation, and receiving a permit to blast from the authorized city
official. The authorized city official, before granting such permit may require
the applicant to provide a bond to indemnify the city and all other persons
against injury or damages which might result from the proposed blasting.
(Prior Code, § 93.20) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.21 STORAGE OF FLAMMABLES AND OTHER MATTER.
   (A)   All flammable or combustible materials shall be arranged and stored in
a manner which affords reasonable safety against the danger of fire.
   (B)   Waste paper, ashes, oil rags, waste rags, excelsior, or any material
of a similar hazardous nature shall not be accumulated in any cellar or any
other portion of any building of any kind. Proper fireproof receptacles shall
be provided for such hazardous materials.
   (C)   No matter shall be stored or arranged in a manner which impedes or
prevents access to or exit from any premises in case of fire.
(Prior Code, § 93.21) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   (1)   Any person or entity convicted of violating §
93.02(A) or (B) shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be subject to
a fine of not less than $100 nor more than $500. Each day a violation occurs
shall constitute a separate offense.
      (2)   Any person or entity convicted of violating §
93.02(C), (D), or (E) shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be
subject to a fine of not less than $500 nor more than $1,000 or imprisonment
for a period of time not to exceed 30 days, or both such fine and imprisonment.
Each day a violation occurs shaft constitute a separate offense.
      (3)   Any person who violates any other provision of §§
93.01 or
93.02 shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be subject to a fine of
not less than $100 nor more than $500. Each day a violation occurs shall
constitute a separate offense.
   (B)   Any person who violates §§
93.20 and
93.21 shall be fined not more than $500.
(Prior Code, § 93.99) (Ord. 2016-09.3, passed 9-19-2016)
CHAPTER 94: LITTERING
Section
   
94.01   Purpose
   
94.02   Littering prohibited
   
94.03   Distribution of handbills
   
94.04   Business, commercial, and industrial wastes
   
94.05   Private premises
   
94.06   Loads on vehicles
   
94.07   Violations; remedies
 
   
94.99   Penalty
§ 94.01 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to accomplish litter control in the city.
This chapter is intended to place all persons within the city the duty of
contributing to public cleanliness and appearance in order to promote the
public health, safety, and welfare and to protect the economic interests of the
people of the city against unsanitary and unsightly conditions. It is further
the intent of this chapter to protect the people against the expense incident
to littering.
(Prior Code, § 94.01) (Ord. 830.5, passed 5-12-1980)
§ 94.02 LITTERING PROHIBITED.
   No person shall throw, drop, deposit, discard, or otherwise dispose of
litter in any public place in the city, on any private property not owned by
him or her, or in any waters within the jurisdiction of the city except as
provided for as follows.
   (A)   Litter may be placed in plastic bags or garbage cans for periodic
pick-up by city garbage collectors as provided for by Chapter 51 of this code
of ordinances.
   (B)   Litter may be deposited in special trash receptacles situated along
the streets or in park areas. However, household trash or garbage may not be
disposed of in this manner.
(Prior Code, § 94.02) (Ord. 830.5, passed 5-12-1980) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.03 DISTRIBUTION OF HANDBILLS.
   (A)   Throwing or distributing handbills in public places. No person shall
throw or deposit any commercial or noncommercial handbill in or on any
sidewalk, street, or other public place within the city, or hand out or
distribute or sell any commercial handbill in any public place; provided, that
any person may hand out or distribute or sell to the receiver thereof, any
noncommercial handbill to any person willing to accept it.
   (B)   Placing commercial and noncommercial handbills on vehicle.
      (1)   No person shall throw or deposit any commercial or noncommercial
handbill in or on any vehicle.
      (2)   This division (B) shall not prohibit any person in any public place
from handing out or distributing, without charge to the receiver thereof, a
noncommercial handbill to any occupant of a vehicle who is willing to accept
it.
   (C)   Distributing handbills on streets, highways, and intersections. No
person shall, in the course of distributing commercial or noncommercial
handbills to occupants of vehicles temporarily stopped on municipal streets,
highways, or intersections, distribute handbills if such actions obstruct any
public street, highway, or intersection by hindering, impeding, or tending to
hinder or impede the free and uninterrupted passage of vehicles, traffic, or
pedestrians.
   (D)   Depositing commercial and noncommercial handbills on uninhabited or
vacant premises. No person shall throw or deposit any commercial or
noncommercial handbill in or on any private premises which are temporarily or
continuously uninhabited or vacant:
      (1)   Where it is apparent that the property is unoccupied;
      (2)   Where it is apparent that a previous day’s distribution of
handbills has not been removed; or
      (3)   Where the owner has not given his or her permission to do so.
   (E)   Distribution of commercial and noncommercial handbills at inhabited
private premises.
      (1)   No person shall throw, deposit, or distribute any commercial or
noncommercial handbill in or on private premises which are inhabited, except by
handing or transmitting any such handbill directly to the owner, occupant, or
other person then present in or on such private premises.
      (2)   Any person may place or deposit any noncommercial handbill in or on
inhabited private premises which are not posted, as provided in division (F)
below, unless requested by anyone on such premises not to do so, may place or
deposit any such handbill in or on such inhabited private premises if such
handbill is so placed or deposited as to secure or prevent such handbill from
being blown or drifted about such premises or sidewalks, streets, or other
public places, and except that mailboxes may not be so used when so prohibited
by federal postal law or regulations.
      (3)   This division (E) shall not apply to the distribution of mail by
the United States, nor to newspapers, except that newspapers shall be placed on
private property in such a manner as to prevent their being carried or
deposited by the elements on any street, sidewalk, or other public place or on
private property.
   (F)   Distributing handbills prohibited where premises properly posted. No
person shall throw, deposit, or distribute any commercial or noncommercial
handbill on private premises, if requested by anyone thereon not to do so, or
if there is placed on such premises in a conspicuous position near the entrance
thereof, a sign bearing the words “no trespassing,” “no peddlers or agents,”
“no advertisement,” or any similar notice, indicating in any matter that the
occupants of the premises do not desire to be molested or have their right of
privacy disturbed or to have any such handbills left on such premises.
(Prior Code, § 94.03) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.04 BUSINESS, COMMERCIAL, AND INDUSTRIAL WASTES.
   Wastes, debris, lumber, metal objects, and any other by-products of a
business or industry, including construction and demolition sites, shall not be
allowed to accumulate to an extent which would be unsightly, unhealthful, or
hazardous. All such wastes and litter shall be disposed of by approved methods
at the expense of the owner of the business or industry.
(Prior Code, § 94.04) (Ord. 830.5, passed 5-12-1980) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.05 PRIVATE PREMISES.
   No person owning or having control of private premises within the city
limits shall allow the dumping, depositing, or accumulation thereof of any type
of litter on that property so that a public nuisance, eyesore, or health hazard
may exist thereon.
(Prior Code, § 94.05) (Ord. 830.5, passed 5-12-1980) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.06 LOADS ON VEHICLES.
   No vehicle shall be driven or moved on any public street unless such vehicle
is so constructed or loaded as to prevent any of its load from dropping,
shifting, leaking, or otherwise escaping therefrom. However, sand or gravel may
be dropped for the purpose of securing traction, and water or other substance
may be sprinkled on a roadway surface in the cleaning or maintaining of that
roadway by the city, state, or other authorized public authority having
jurisdiction over that roadway or by persons under contract or other
authorization by the city, state, or other authorized public authority.
(Prior Code, § 94.06) (Ord. 830.5, passed 5-12-1980) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.07 VIOLATIONS; REMEDIES.
   Any person violating the provisions of any section of this chapter may, at
the discretion of the appropriate court having jurisdiction, in lieu of or in
addition to any fine assessed for violation of this chapter as set forth in §
94.99 of this chapter, be directed by that court to pick up, sweep up, or
otherwise remove any litter improperly deposited by him or her upon any public
or private property. This shall include, but not be limited to the removal of
any loose material which has leaked from an improperly-loaded or covered
vehicle from the street or public thoroughfare upon which it is scattered by
that vehicle.
(Prior Code, § 94.98) (Ord. 830.5, passed 5-12-1980)
§ 94.99 PENALTY.
   The fine amounts for violation of this chapter are as follows:
Violation Fine
Violation                                                                Fine
Accumulations of litter at construction/demolition sites or business or  $100
commercial establishments
Depositing commercial solid waste in sidewalk or other pedestrian litter $50
receptacles
Depositing household solid waste in sidewalk or other pedestrian litter  $50
receptacles
Improper disposal of household trash or waste                            $50
Litter accumulation on private premises                                  $50
Litter by pedestrians and motorists                                      $20
Littering on sidewalks and parks                                         $20
Littering with handbills, leaflets, and the like                         $35
Transporting loose materials without adequate covering                   $100
 
(Prior Code, § 94.99) (Ord. 830.5, passed 5-12-1980)
CHAPTER 95: BOAT RAMP
Section
   
95.01   Usage charge
   
95.02   Yearly passes
   
95.03   Daily passes
 
   
95.99   Penalty
§ 95.01 USAGE CHARGE.
   The following is a list of fees the city will charge for usage of the city
boat ramps.
   (A)   For individuals who are regularly employed in the city who do not
reside in the city and who have purchased a current city sticker for their
vehicle, the cost of a yearly pass for the use of the city boat ramp for one
entire year is $12.72, which amount includes a 6% sales tax charge of $0.72.
   (B)   For individuals who are not residents of the city and who are not
regularly employed in the city, the cost of using the city boat ramp for a day
is $5 per day, which includes a 6% sales tax charge of $0.28.
   (C)   For individuals who are not residents of the city and who are not
regularly employed in the city, the cost of obtaining a yearly pass to use the
city boat ramp for an entire year is $53, which includes a 6% sales tax charge
of $3.
(Prior Code, § 95.01) (Ord. 2007-06.01, passed 9-19-2005; Ord. 2018.08.05,
passed 8-27-2018)
§ 95.02 YEARLY PASSES.
   All yearly boat ramp passes can be purchased at City Hall, Monday through
Friday, from 8:00 a.m. until 4:00 p.m.
(Prior Code, § 95.02) (Ord. 2007-06.01, passed 9-19-2005)
§ 95.03 DAILY PASSES.
   All daily boat ramp passes can be obtained at either one of the city-owned
boat ramps by way of a collection receptacle located therein.
(Prior Code, § 95.03) (Ord. 2007-06.01, passed 9-19-2005)
§ 95.99 PENALTY.
   Any person using the boat ramps without a proper pass will be subject to a
fine of not less than $100 by the city for each such violation. Repeated
violations of this provision can subject the offender to a complete denial of
the use of the boat ramps for an indefinite period of time.
(Prior Code, § 95.99) (Ord. 2007-06.01, passed 9-19-2005)
CHAPTER 96: PARKS AND RECREATION
Section
   
96.01   RV park regulations
   
96.02   Campground regulations
§ 96.01 RV PARK REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Camping as to the city RV park, unless authorized by the Mayor due to
a special event creating an overflow in the RV park, shall be restricted to the
RV park itself.
   (B)   Campsites at the RV park can be rented by up to and including six
individuals per site at the following rates:
      (1)   For one night: $20;
      (2)   For one week (seven days): $100;
      (3)   For one night by a senior citizen: $15;
      (4)   For one week (seven days) by a senior citizen: $85;
      (5)   For each individual beyond six individuals at a campsite per night:
$5; and
      (6)   All children two years and under stay free at the park and do not
count as to the six individual limit.
   (C)   Pets in the RV park shall:
      (1)   Be kept on a leash or otherwise restrained at all times;
      (2)   Not be tied to trees or shrubs in the RV park;
      (3)   A camper with a pet in the RV park shall clean up after the
camper’s pet; and
      (4)   Campers who are unable to control their pets in the RV park may be
required to leave the RV park.
   (D)   Sewage or gray water from tents or recreational vehicles shall not be
dispensed or disposed of on the premises of the RV park, except at a sewage
disposal site. Dishes, pots, pans, and silverware shall not be washed at any
spigots in the RV park. Vehicles or equipment shall not be washed within the RV
park.
   (E)   Campers in the RV park shall not:
      (1)   Hang lanterns on any trees or shrubs in the RV park;
      (2)   Drive any object into a tree, shrub, sign, building, or other
object or structure in the RV park; or
      (3)   Dig any deep ruts or trenches in the RV park.
   (F)   (1)   Motorbikes, motorcycles, motor scooters, and mopeds in the RV
park shall be restricted to use only on the road or roadways in the RV park and
only for use in entering and exiting the RV park.
      (2)   Four wheelers, all-terrain vehicles, utility type vehicles, or
other similar type vehicles and golf carts may be prohibited within certain
portions of the RV park in areas designated by the Mayor.
      (3)   Campers and visitors operating a motorized vehicle in the RV park
shall always have said vehicle under control and shall not operate their
vehicle in a reckless or careless manner.
      (4)   Any driver in the RV park shall be at least 16 years of age and
have a valid driver’s license.
      (5)   The above provisions may not apply, in the Mayor’s discretion, to a
motorized vehicle in the RV park operated by a person with a disability who:
         (a)   Is using a motorized vehicle to travel to and from the RV park
facilities; and
         (b)   Has proof of his or her disability such as an appropriate
identification card or a vehicle disability license plate.
   (G)   (1)   A camper shall register for a campsite at the RV park at City
Hall or other designated area and shall receive a campsite assignment.
      (2)   A camper shall not change a campsite assignment unless permission
for such change is granted by the Mayor or City Hall.
      (3)   If a camper is permitted to select a site of the camper’s choice,
the camper shall return immediately to City Hall and identify the chosen site.
   (H)   Fires in the RV park shall be restricted solely to the rings in
designated areas in the RV park only and shall be properly attended at all
times.
   (I)   Vehicles shall be parked in campsite spaces and RV park parking lots.
Vehicles shall not block adjacent campsites or any roadways in the RV park.
   (J)   (1)   A camper shall keep the camping site clean and dispose of any
refuse in the proper receptacles provided by the city.
      (2)   Campers may camp in the grass in the RV park only with the prior
permission of the Mayor or City Hall.
   (K)   Fireworks shall not be allowed in the RV park.
   (L)   A camper shall not deface or damage any RV park property.
   (M)   No camper shall be permitted to stay at a site in the RV park for more
than 14 consecutive days or for more than 20 days in any 30-day period.
   (N)   Any visitors to the RV park shall be required to obey all RV park
rules and regulations.
   (O)   A camper or a camper’s guest in the RV park shall not engage in
fighting, or use any threatening or abusive language, or commit any lewd acts
or conduct which causes public inconvenience, annoyance, alarm, unreasonable
noise, or which is disturbing to RV park patrons.
   (P)   The RV park shall be open for business the year round.
   (Q)   Any person violating any provisions of this section can be punished
under any applicable federal, state, or local laws or ordinances and/or can be
temporarily or permanently removed from the RV park premises.
(Ord. 2017-02.01, passed 2-20-2017; Ord. 2018-12.02, passed 12-17-2018; Ord.
2020.05.03, passed 5-18-2020)
§ 96.02 CAMPGROUND REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Camping, unless authorized by the Mayor due to a special event
creating an overflow in the campground, shall be restricted to the campground.
   (B)   Campsites can be rented at the campground by up to six people per site
for $30 per day. Each additional individual, besides the six people, shall be
charged $5 per day per person. Children age two and under stay in the
campground for free.
   (C)   Pets in the campground shall:
      (1)   Be kept on a leash or otherwise restrained at all times;
      (2)   Not be tied to trees or shrubs in the campground;
      (3)   A camper with a pet in the campground shall clean up after the
camper’s pet; and
      (4)   Campers who are unable to control their pets in the campground may
be required to leave the campground.
   (D)   Sewage or gray water from tents or recreational vehicles shall not be
dispensed or disposed of on the premises of the campground, except at a sewage
disposal site. Dishes, pots, pans, and silverware shall not be washed at any
spigots in the campground. Vehicles or equipment shall not be washed within the
campground.
   (E)   Campers in the campground shall not:
      (1)   Hang lanterns on any trees or shrubs in the campground;
      (2)   Drive any object into a tree, shrub, sign, building, or other
object or structure in the campground; or
      (3)   Dig any deep ruts or trenches in the campground.
   (F)   (1)   Motorbikes, motorcycles, motor scooters, and mopeds in the
campground shall be restricted to use only on the road or roadways in the
campground and only for use in entering and exiting the campground.
      (2)   Four wheelers, all-terrain vehicles, utility type vehicles, or
other similar type vehicles and golf carts may be prohibited within certain
portions of the campground in areas designated by the Mayor.
      (3)   Campers and visitors operating a motorized vehicle in the
campground shall always have said vehicle under control and shall not operate
their vehicle in a reckless or careless manner.
      (4)   Any driver in the campground shall be at least 16 years of age and
have a valid driver’s license.
      (5)   The above provisions may not apply, in the Mayor’s discretion, to a
motorized vehicle in the campground operated by a person with a disability who:
         (a)   Is using a motorized vehicle to travel to and from the
campground facilities; and
         (b)   Has proof of his or her disability, such as an appropriate
identification card or a vehicle disability license plate.
   (G)   (1)   A camper shall register for a campsite at the campground at City
Hall or other designated area and shall receive a campsite assignment.
      (2)   A camper shall not change a campsite assignment unless permission
for such change is granted by the Mayor or City Hall.
      (3)   If a camper is permitted to select a site of the camper’s choice,
the camper shall return immediately to City Hall and identify the chosen site.
   (H)   Fires in the campground shall be restricted solely to the rings in
designated areas in the campground only and shall be properly attended at all
times.
   (I)   Vehicles shall be parked in campsite spaces and campground parking
lots. Vehicles shall not block adjacent campsites or any roadways in the
campground.
   (J)   (1)   A camper shall keep the camping site clean and dispose of any
refuse in the proper receptacles provided by the city.
      (2)   Campers may camp in the grass in the campground only with the prior
permission of the Mayor or City Hall.
   (K)   Fireworks shall not be allowed in the campground.
   (L)   A camper shall not deface or damage any campground property.
   (M)   No camper shall be permitted to stay at a site in the campground for
more than 14 consecutive days or for more than 20 days in any 30-day period.
   (N)   Any visitors to the campground shall be required to obey all
campground rules and regulations.
   (O)   A camper or a camper’s guest in the campground shall not engage in
fighting, or use any threatening or abusive language, or commit any lewd acts
or conduct which causes public inconvenience, annoyance, alarm, unreasonable
noise, or which is disturbing to campground patrons.
   (P)   Any person violating any provisions of this section can be punished
under any applicable federal, state, or local laws or ordinances and/or can be
temporarily or permanently removed from the campground premises.
(Ord. 2017-, passed 1-16-2017)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   GENERAL LICENSING PROVISIONS
      
111.   PEDDLERS, ITINERANT MERCHANTS, AND SOLICITORS
      
112.   PAWNBROKERS
      
113.   INSURANCE COMPANIES
      
114.   FINANCIAL INSTITUTION FRANCHISE AND    LOCAL DEPOSIT TAX
      
115.   YARD SALES
      
116.   SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESSES
CHAPTER 110: GENERAL LICENSING PROVISIONS
Section
   
110.01   Licenses required to engage in certain trades, businesses, or
professions
   
110.02   Application for license
   
110.03   Issuance of license; standards for issuance
   
110.04   Date and duration of license
   
110.05   License not transferable
   
110.06   License certificate to be displayed
   
110.07   Revocation or suspension
   
110.08   Appeal and review
   
110.09   License fee schedule
   
110.10   Exemptions
 
   
110.99   Penalty
§ 110.01 LICENSES REQUIRED TO ENGAGE IN CERTAIN TRADES, BUSINESSES, OR
PROFESSIONS.
   No person shall engage in any of the trades, businesses, or professions for
which licenses are required by any provision of this code or any other
ordinance of the city without first applying for and obtaining a license from
the City Clerk-Treasurer.
(Prior Code, § 110.01)
§ 110.02 APPLICATION FOR LICENSE.
   (A)   All original applications for licenses, unless otherwise specifically
provided, shall be made to the City Clerk-Treasurer and shall include:
      (1)   The name of the applicant;
      (2)   His or her present occupation and place of business;
      (3)   The nature and location of the intended business or enterprise;
      (4)   The period of time for which the license is desired;
      (5)   A description of the merchandise to be sold, if for a vendor; and
      (6)   Such other information concerning the applicant and his or her
business as may be reasonable and proper, having regard to the nature of the
license desired.
   (B)   Renewal of an annual license may be granted to a licensee in good
standing upon the original application, unless otherwise provided.
   (C)   With each original or renewal application, the applicant shall deposit
the fee required for the license requested.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful knowingly to make any false statement or
representation in the license application.
(Prior Code, § 110.02) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.03 ISSUANCE OF LICENSE; STANDARDS FOR ISSUANCE.
   (A)   Upon receipt of such application for a license, accompanied by the
proper fee, if approval by another officer or department is not required, the
City Clerk-Treasurer shall forthwith deposit the fee in the General Fund of the
city and issue to the applicant a proper license certificate signed by the City
Clerk-Treasurer and any other appropriate city official. If for any reason the
license is not issued, the license fee shall be returned to the applicant.
   (B)   The application shall be approved unless such investigation discloses
tangible evidence that the conduct of the applicant’s business would pose a
substantial threat to the public health, safety, morals, or general welfare. In
particular, tangible evidence that the applicant has any of the following will
constitute valid reasons for disapproval of an application:
      (1)   Has been convicted of a crime of moral turpitude;
      (2)   Has made willful misstatements in the application;
      (3)   Has committed prior violations of ordinances pertaining to
itinerant merchants, peddlers, solicitors, and the like;
      (4)   Has committed prior fraudulent acts;
      (5)   Has a record of continual breaches of solicited contracts; or
      (6)   Has an unsatisfactory moral character
(Prior Code, § 110.03)
§ 110.04 DATE AND DURATION OF LICENSE.
   (A)   A license shall not be valid beyond the expiration date therein
specified and, unless otherwise provided, shall not extend beyond June 30 of
the year issued. Licenses shall be pro-rated on a quarterly basis.
   (B)   In no event shall a license be granted to any business or any person
for a longer time than one year.
(KRS 92.310) (Prior Code, § 110.04)
Editor’s note:
   KRS 92.310 was repealed by 2014 Ky. Acts ch. 92, sec. 314, effective January
1, 2015.
§ 110.05 LICENSE NOT TRANSFERABLE.
   Every license shall be issued to a real party in interest in the enterprise
or business, and unless otherwise provided, no license shall be assigned or
transferred.
(Prior Code, § 110.05) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.06 LICENSE CERTIFICATE TO BE DISPLAYED.
   Every licensee carrying on business at a fixed location shall keep posted in
a prominent place upon the licensed premises, the license certificate. Other
licensees shall carry their license certificates at all times and whenever
requested by any officer or citizen, shall exhibit the license.
(Prior Code, § 110.06) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.07 REVOCATION OR SUSPENSION.
   (A)   Any license may be revoked by the City Council at any time for
conditions or considerations which, had they existed at the time of issuance,
would have been valid grounds for its denial; for any misrepresentation of a
material fact in the application discovered after issuance of the license; for
violation of any provision of this chapter or other law or ordinance relating
to the operation of the business or enterprise for which the license has been
issued; or upon conviction of a licensee for any federal, state, or municipal
law or ordinance involving moral turpitude.
   (B)   The revocation shall become effective upon notice served upon the
licensee or posted upon the premises affected.
   (C)   As a preliminary to revocation, the City Council may issue an order
suspending the license, which shall become effective immediately upon service
of written notice to the licensee. This notice shall specify the reason for
suspension, and may provide conditions under which reinstatement of the license
may be obtained. Upon compliance with these conditions within the time
specified, the license may be restored.
(Prior Code, § 110.07)
§ 110.08 APPEAL AND REVIEW.
   In case any applicant has been denied a license, or if his or her license
has been revoked or suspended, the applicant or licensee as the case may be,
shall within three business days have the right to appeal to the City Council
from the denial, revocation, or suspension. Notice of appeal shall be filed in
writing with the City Clerk-Treasurer who shall fix the time and place for a
hearing which shall be held not later than one week thereafter. The City Clerk-
Treasurer shall notify the Mayor and all members of the City Council of the
time and place of the hearing not less than 24 hours in advance thereof. A
majority of the City Council members shall constitute a quorum to hear the
appeal. The appellant may appear and be heard in person or by counsel. If,
after hearing, a majority of the members of the City Council present at the
meeting declare in favor of the applicant, the license shall be issued or fully
reinstated as the case may be; otherwise the order appealed from shall become
final.
(Prior Code, § 110.08)
§ 110.09 LICENSE FEE SCHEDULE.
   Each person, firm, or corporation, owning, operating, conducting, or
engaging in any of the following businesses, trades, occupations, or
professions, whether operated or conducted separately or in connection with
another business, trade, occupation, or profession, shall pay the amount of the
license fee set out below, this amount designating a full year’s license,
unless otherwise specified.
   (A)   Food service. Including but not limited to restaurants, fast foods,
short orders, and pool rooms selling food and the like (anyone engaged in
preparing food for sale to and consumption by the public): $50 per year.
   (B)   Merchants. Including but not limited to groceries, car lots, filling
stations, hardware stores, and the like (anyone who engages in the business of
buying and selling for profit): $50 per year.
   (C)   Peddler; non-transient. Anyone selling goods to individuals or local
businesses on a regular or frequent basis: $50 per year.
   (D)   Peddler; transient. Anyone selling goods to individuals or local
businesses on a one-time or infrequent basis: $100 per year.
   (E)   Services; personal. Including but not limited to beauty shops, barber
shops, mechanics, body shops, water trucks, and the like (anyone engaged in
physically performing services for hire): $50 per year.
   (F)   Services; professional. Including but not limited to doctors, lawyers,
nursing homes, funeral homes, dentists, and the like (anyone engaged in a
business requiring higher learning and/or primarily mental skills): $50 per
year.
   (G)   Wine/distilled spirits/malt beverages. Including but not limited to
sale of wine/distilled spirits/malt beverages: $200 per year.
   (H)   Hobbies. A mini-business or enterprise located on the homeowner’s
premises, but which grosses no more than $5,000 per year (includes sewer,
woodworking, ceramics, small engine repair, and the like):$25 per year.
   (I)   Additional categories. Additional categories and fees may be
established by the City Council by ordinance, if applications are made for
business licenses not listed or implied in the foregoing schedule.
   (J)   Vehicle license tax. All licenses required by this chapter shall be in
addition to the vehicle license tax required by §§
70.35 through
70.40 of this code of ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 110.09) (Ord. 420.5, passed - -; Ord. 2013-04.02, passed 4-29-
2013)
§ 110.10 EXEMPTIONS.
   The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to any business, occupation,
or profession which is exempt from municipal licensing or license taxes
pursuant to state or federal law.
(Prior Code, § 110.10)
§ 110.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter shall be fined not more than
$500.
(Prior Code, § 110.99)
CHAPTER 111: PEDDLERS, ITINERANT MERCHANTS, AND SOLICITORS
Section
   
111.01   Definitions
   
111.02   License requirement
   
111.03   Application procedure
   
111.04   Standards for issuance
   
111.05   Revocation procedure
   
111.06   Standards for revocation
   
111.07   Appeal procedure
   
111.08   Exhibition of identification
 
   
111.99   Penalty
§ 111.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUSINESS. The business carried on by any person who is an itinerant
merchant, peddler, or solicitor as defined in this section.
   GOODS. Merchandise of any description whatsoever, and includes, but is not
restricted to, wares and foodstuffs.
   ITINERANT MERCHANT. Any person, whether as owner, agent, or consignee, who
engages in a temporary business of selling goods within the city and who, in
the furtherance of such business, uses any building, structure, vehicle, or any
place within the city.
   PEDDLER.
      (1)   Any person who travels from place to place by any means carrying
goods for sale, or making sales, or making deliveries.
      (2)   Any person who, without traveling from place to place, sells or
offers goods for sale from any public place within the city.
      (3)   A person who is a PEDDLER is not an itinerant merchant.
   SOLICITOR. Any person who travels by any means from place to place, taking
or attempting to take orders for sale of goods to be delivered in the future,
or for services to be performed in the future. A person who is a SOLICITOR is
not a peddler.
(Prior Code, § 111.01)
§ 111.02 LICENSE REQUIREMENT.
   (A)   Any person who is an itinerant merchant, peddler, or solicitor shall
obtain a license before engaging in such activity within the city.
   (B)   The fee for the license required by this chapter shall be as set forth
in §
110.09 of this title.
   (C)   No license issued under this chapter shall be transferable.
   (D)   All licenses issued under this chapter shall expire 90 days after the
date of issuance thereof.
(Prior Code, § 111.02) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.03 APPLICATION PROCEDURE.
   (A)   All applicants for licenses required by this chapter shall file an
application with the City Clerk- Treasurer. This application shall be signed by
the applicant if an individual, or by all partners if a partnership, or by the
president if a corporation. The applicant may be requested to provide
information concerning the following items:
      (1)   The name and address of the applicant;
      (2)   (a)   The name of the individual having management authority or
supervision of the applicant’s business during the time that it is proposed to
be carried on in the city;
         (b)   The local address of such individual;
         (c)   The permanent address of such individual; or
         (d)   The capacity in which such individual will act.
      (3)   The name and address of the person, if any, for whose purpose the
business will be carried on, and, if a corporation, the state of incorporation;
      (4)   The time period or periods during which it is proposed to carry on
applicant’s business;
      (5)   (a)   The nature, character, and quality of the goods or services
to be offered for sale or delivered;
         (b)   If goods, their invoice value, and whether they are to be sold
by sample as well as from stock; and
         (c)   If goods, where and by whom such goods are manufactured or
grown, and where such goods are at the time of application.
      (6)   The nature of the advertising proposed to be done for the business;
and
      (7)   Whether or not the applicant, or the individual identified in
division (A)(2)(a) above, or the person identified in division (A)(3) above has
been convicted of any crime or misdemeanor and, if so, the nature of each
offense and the penalty assessed for each offense.
   (B)   Applicants for peddler or solicitor licenses may be required to
provide further information concerning the following items, in addition to that
requested under division (A) above:
      (1)   A description of the applicant; and
      (2)   A description of any vehicle proposed to be used in the business,
including its registration number, if any.
   (C)   All applicants for licenses required by this chapter shall attach to
their application the following:
      (1)   If required by the city, copies of all printed advertising proposed
to be used in connection with the applicant’s business; and
      (2)   If required by the city, credentials from the person, if any, for
which the applicant proposes to do business, authorizing the applicant to act
as such representative.
   (D)   Applicants who propose to handle foodstuffs shall also attach to their
application, in addition to any attachments required under division (C) above,
a statement from a licensed physician, dated not more than ten days prior to
the date of application, certifying the applicant to be free of contagious or
communicable disease.
(Prior Code, § 111.03) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.04 STANDARDS FOR ISSUANCE.
   (A)   Upon receipt of an application, an investigation of the applicant’s
business reputation and moral character shall be made.
   (B)   The application shall be approved unless such investigation discloses
tangible evidence that the conduct of the applicant’s business would pose a
substantial threat to the public health, safety, morals, or general welfare. In
particular, tangible evidence that the applicant has any of the following will
constitute valid reasons for disapproval of an application.
      (1)   Has been convicted of a crime of moral turpitude;
      (2)   Has made willful misstatements in the application;
      (3)   Has committed prior violations of ordinances pertaining to
itinerant merchants, peddlers, solicitors, and the like;
      (4)   Has committed prior fraudulent acts;
      (5)   Has a record of continual breaches of solicited contracts; or
      (6)   Has an unsatisfactory moral character.
(Prior Code, § 111.04)
§ 111.05 REVOCATION PROCEDURE.
   Any license or permit granted under this chapter may be revoked by the City
Clerk-Treasurer after notice and hearing, pursuant to the standards in §
111.06 of this chapter. Notice of hearing for revocation shall be given in
writing, setting forth specifically the grounds of the complaint and the time
and place of the hearing. Such notice shall be mailed to the licensee at his or
her last known address, at least ten days prior to the date set for the
hearing.
(Prior Code, § 111.05)
§ 111.06 STANDARDS FOR REVOCATION.
   A license granted under this chapter may be revoked for any of the following
reasons:
   (A)   Any fraud or misrepresentation contained in the license application;
   (B)   Any fraud, misrepresentation, or false statement made in connection
with the business being conducted under the license;
   (C)   Any violation of this chapter;
   (D)   Conviction of the licensee of any felony, or conviction of the
licensee of any misdemeanor involving moral turpitude; or
   (E)   Conducting the business licensed in an unlawful manner or in such a
way as to constitute a menace to the health, safety, morals, or general welfare
of the public.
(Prior Code, § 111.06)
§ 111.07 APPEAL PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Any person aggrieved by a decision under §§
111.04 or
111.06 of this chapter shall have the right to appeal to the City Council. The
appeal shall be taken by filing with the City Council, within 14 days after
notice of the decision has been mailed to such person’s last known address, a
written statement setting forth the grounds for appeal. The City Council shall
set the time and place for a hearing, and notice for such hearing shall be
given to such person in the same manner as provided in §
111.05 of this chapter.
   (B)   The order of the City Council after the hearing shall be final.
(Prior Code, § 111.07)
§ 111.08 EXHIBITION OF IDENTIFICATION.
   (A)   Any license issued to an itinerant merchant under this chapter shall
be posted conspicuously in or at the place named therein. In the event more
than one place within the city shall be used to conduct the business licensed,
separate licenses shall be issued for each place.
   (B)   The City Clerk-Treasurer shall issue a license to each peddler or
solicitor licensed under this chapter. The license shall contain the words
“licensed peddler” or “licensed solicitor,” the expiration date of the license,
and the number of the license. The license shall be kept with the licensee
during such time as he or she is engaged in the business licensed.
(Prior Code, § 111.08) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter shall be fined not more than
$500. Each day’s violation shall constitute a separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 111.99)
CHAPTER 112: PAWNBROKERS
Section
   
112.01   Definition
   
112.02   Bond
   
112.03   Register to be kept; daily reports
   
112.04   Receipt to be given for each article; sale of article
   
112.05   Maximum interest and resale price
   
112.06   Receipt to be given for payment of loan
   
112.07   Prohibited activities
   
112.08   Enforcement
 
   
112.99   Penalty
§ 112.01 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definition shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PAWNBROKER. Any person who loans money on deposit of personal property;
deals in the purchase of personal property on condition of selling the property
back again at a stipulated price; makes a public display at his or her place of
business of the sign generally used by pawnbrokers to denote their business; or
who publicly exhibits a sign advertising money to loan on personal property or
deposit.
(KRS 226.010) (Prior Code, § 112.01)
§ 112.02 BOND.
   Every person to whom a city license is granted to carry on the business of a
pawnbroker shall annually enter into bond to the city, with good and sufficient
surety to be approved by City Council, in the penal sum of $1,000. This bond
shall be conditioned that he or she will observe the provisions of this chapter
and all ordinances and laws in force in the city not inconsistent with this
chapter.
(KRS 226.020) (Prior Code, § 112.02)
§ 112.03 REGISTER TO BE KEPT; DAILY REPORTS.
   (A)   Every pawnbroker shall keep a register of all loans and purchases of
all articles affected or made by him or her. The register shall show the dates
of all loans or purchases, and the names of all persons who have left any
property on deposit as collateral security or as a delivery or sale. Opposite
the names and dates shall be written in plain hand a full description of all
property purchased or received on deposit as collateral security, the time when
the loan falls due, the amount of purchase money, the amount loaned, and the
interest charged. The register shall at all times be open to the inspection of
any police officer of the city when in the discharge of his or her official
duty.
(KRS 226.040)
   (B)   Every pawnbroker shall, by 11:00 a.m. each day, furnish to the Chief
of Police a true and correct written report of all goods received by him or
her, whether by pawn or purchase, during the 24 hours preceding each report.
The report shall describe the goods as accurately as practicable. The Chief of
Police shall furnish blanks for these reports.
(KRS 226.070)   
(Prior Code, § 112.03) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.04 RECEIPT TO BE GIVEN FOR EACH ARTICLE; SALE OF ARTICLE.
   (A)   Every pawnbroker shall give a plain written or printed ticket for the
loan to the person negotiating or selling, and a plain written or printed
receipt of the articles that have been purchased or upon which money is loaned,
having on each a copy of the entries required by §
112.03(A) of this chapter to be kept in his or her register. He or she shall
not make any charge for the ticket or receipt.
   (B)   A pawnbroker may sell any article pawned after the expiration of 90
days from the maturity of the loan. However, not less than ten days before
making the sale, the pawnbroker shall give notice to the person by whom the
article was pawned by mail addressed to the post office address of that person
as shown on the pawnbroker’s register, notifying such person that, unless he or
she redeems the article within ten days from the date of mailing of the notice,
the article will be sold.
(KRS 226.050) (Prior Code, § 112.04) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.05 MAXIMUM INTEREST AND RESALE PRICE.
   Any pawnbroker as defined in §
112.01 of this chapter, may, in loaning money on deposit of personal property,
charge, contract for, or receive interest at a rate not exceeding 2% per month
on the unpaid principal balance of the loan, and may charge, contract for, and
receive a reasonable fee, not to exceed one-fifth of the value of the loan per
month, for investigating the title, storing and insuring the property, closing
the loan, making daily reports to local law enforcement officers if required by
§
112.03 of this chapter, and for other expenses, losses, and incidental costs
associated with servicing such loans. Further, this fee, when made and
collected, shall not be deemed as interest for any purpose of law. No
pawnbroker shall directly or indirectly charge, receive, or contract for any
interest or consideration greater than that allowed by this section.
(KRS 226.080) (Prior Code, § 112.05) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.06 RECEIPT TO BE GIVEN FOR PAYMENT OF LOAN.
   Every pawnbroker, upon receiving any payment of money from a borrower, shall
give to that person a plain and complete receipt for such payment, specifying
separately the amount applied to principal and the amount applied to interest.
In a case where the pawnbroker has purchased personal property under an
agreement to sell it back at a stipulated price, the pawnbroker shall, on
receiving any payment of money from the person from whom the property was
purchased, give that person a receipt stating the original purchase price, the
stipulated resale price, and the amount received.
(KRS 226.090) (Prior Code, § 112.06) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.07 PROHIBITED ACTIVITIES.
   No pawnbroker shall receive, by way of either pledge or pawn, any article
whatever from a minor at any time nor from any person between 8:00 p.m. and 7:
00 a.m.
(KRS 226.030) (Prior Code, § 112.07) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.08 ENFORCEMENT.
   The Police Department shall enforce the provisions of this chapter unless
otherwise provided by KRS 226.100. However, county police, for the purpose of
locating stolen goods, may carry out the provisions of KRS 226.060statutory
within the city.
(KRS 226.100) (Prior Code, § 112.08)
§ 112.99 PENALTY.
   Any pawnbroker or pawnbroker’s clerk who violates any of the provisions of
this chapter shall, upon conviction, be fined not less than $50 nor more than
$500, and his or her license may be forfeited to the city.
(KRS 226.990(1)) (Prior Code, § 112.99)
CHAPTER 113: INSURANCE COMPANIES
Section
   
113.01   Imposition of license fee
   
113.02   Amount of fee for companies issuing policies other than life insurance
   
113.03   Due date; interest
   
113.04   Written breakdown of collections
§ 113.01 IMPOSITION OF LICENSE FEE.
   There is hereby imposed on each insurance company a license fee for the
privilege of engaging in the business of insurance within the corporate limits
of the city, on a calendar-year basis.
(Prior Code, § 113.01) (Ord. 220.82, passed - -)
§ 113.02 AMOUNT OF FEE FOR COMPANIES ISSUING POLICIES OTHER THAN LIFE
INSURANCE.
   The license fee imposed upon each insurance company which issues any
insurance policy which is not a life insurance policy shall be 9% of the
premiums actually collected within the corporate limits on those classes of
business which such company is authorized to transact, less all premiums
returned to policyholders; however, any license fee or tax imposed upon premium
receipts shall not include premiums received for insuring employers against
liability for personal injuries to their employees, or death caused thereby,
under the provisions of the Workers’ Compensation Act, being KRS Chapter 342,
and shall not include premiums received on policies of group health insurance
provided for state employees under KRS 18A.225(2) or the premiums paid to any
state employee benefit fund created pursuant to KRS Chapter 18Astatutory. There
is also exempted from the payment of this insurance premium tax, premiums
collected from all accredited schools and all organized religious
organizations; such as, churches, synagogues, and places where worship services
are held on a regular basis.
(Prior Code, § 113.02) (Ord. 220.82, passed - -; Ord. passed 11-20-1989; Ord.
passed 4-8-1991)
§ 113.03 DUE DATE; INTEREST.
   All license fees imposed by this chapter shall be due no later than 30 days
after the end of each calendar quarter. License fees which are not paid on or
before the due date shall bear interest at the tax interest rate as defined in
KRS 131.010(6).
(Prior Code, § 113.03) (Ord. 220.82, passed - -)
§ 113.04 WRITTEN BREAKDOWN OF COLLECTIONS.
   (A)   Every insurance company subject to the license fees imposed by this
chapter shall annually, by March 31, furnish the city a written breakdown of
all collections in the preceding calendar year for the following categories of
insurance:
      (1)   Casualty;
      (2)   Automobile;
      (3)   Fire and allied perils; and
      (4)   Health.
   (B)   Quarterly payments, reflecting quarterly premium receipts, shall be
made to the city in a minimum amount of $5 for each such payment.
(Prior Code, § 113.04) (Ord. 220.82, passed - -)
CHAPTER 114: FINANCIAL INSTITUTION FRANCHISE AND LOCAL DEPOSIT TAX
Section
   
114.01   Imposition of tax
   
114.02   Tax due
   
114.03   Lien imposed
   
114.04   Use of tax
 
   
114.99   Penalty
§ 114.01 IMPOSITION OF TAX.
   There is hereby imposed on all “financial institutions,” as defined in KRS
Chapter 136, located within the corporate limits of the city, for the 1996 tax
year and all subsequent years, a franchise tax at the rate of 0.025% on all
deposits, as defined in KRS Chapter 136statutory, maintained by such financial
institutions.
(Prior Code, § 114.01) (Ord. 8.96-1, passed 8-19-1996)
§ 114.02 TAX DUE.
   (A)   For transition purposes, the 1996 tax year will be treated differently
in terms of collection of taxes than for all subsequent years. For the 1996 tax
year, the following timetable is hereby established: the city will issue tax
bills to financial institutions no later than May 1, 1997. Payment of the tax
shall be due with a 2% discount by May 31, 1997, or without the discount by
June 30, 1997.
   (B)   For all tax years subsequent to the 1996 tax year, the following
timetable is hereby established: the city will issue tax bills to financial
institutions no later than December 1 of each year. Payment of the tax shall be
due with a 2% discount by December 31 of each year, or without the discount by
January 31 of each year.
(Prior Code, § 114.02) (Ord. 8.96-1, passed 8-19-1996) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.03 LIEN IMPOSED.
   The city shall have a lien for taxes upon any and all property subject to
the tax imposed by the sections, which lien shall be superior to all
encumbrances prior or subsequent.
(Prior Code, § 114.03) (Ord. 8.96-1, passed 8-19-1996)
§ 114.04 USE OF TAX.
   All moneys collected pursuant to this chapter shall be paid into the General
Fund of the city to be used for the payment of proper expenditures as
determined by the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 114.04) (Ord. 8.96-1, passed 8-19-1996)
§ 114.99 PENALTY.
   All taxes due in accordance with these sections which are not paid before
June 30, 1997, for tax year 1996, or which are not paid before January 31, for
all subsequent tax years shall be deemed delinquent and shall be subject to a
penalty of 10% and shall bear interest at the rate of 12% per annum.
(Prior Code, § 114.99) (Ord. 8.96-1, passed 8-19-1996)
CHAPTER 115: YARD SALES
Section
   
115.01   Definition
   
115.02   License
   
115.03   Applications
   
115.04   License to be displayed
   
115.05   General Fund
   
115.06   Regulations
 
   
115.99   Penalty
§ 115.01 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definition shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   YARD SALE. A sale of personal property conducted upon or in a residential
lot, structure, or outbuilding.
(Prior Code, § 115.01) (Ord. 2005-9.2, passed 9-19-2005)
§ 115.02 LICENSE.
   Each person who conducts a yard sale in the city in excess of twice within a
12-month period, provided that each such occasion not exceed two consecutive
days of sale, shall purchase a license from the City Clerk-Treasurer for the
conduct of all such sales, and shall pay annually therefore the sum of $10,
being payable as the occupational tax for the privilege of conducting yard
sales.
(Prior Code, § 115.02) (Ord. 2005-9.2, passed 9-19-2005)
§ 115.03 APPLICATIONS.
   Each person subject to the provisions of this chapter shall present to the
City Clerk-Treasurer an application showing the applicant’s name, business
address, business telephone number, residence address, residence telephone
number, and if a non-resident of the county, a statement setting forth any
previous, unpardoned felony convictions. Forms for applications shall be
provided by the City Clerk- Treasurer and paid for out of the General Fund.
(Prior Code, § 115.03) (Ord. 2005-9.2, passed 9-19-2005)
§ 115.04 LICENSE TO BE DISPLAYED.
   Each license issued under this chapter shall be valid for one year and shall
be issued by the City Clerk-Treasurer. The license shall be prominently
displayed by the holder on the premises where the sale is conducted, and it
shall show the name of the holder and the expiration date.
(Prior Code, § 115.04) (Ord. 2005-9.2, passed 9-19-2005)
§ 115.05 GENERAL FUND.
   All proceeds collected hereunder shall be paid into the General Fund, as are
all business license fees.
(Prior Code, § 115.05) (Ord. 2005-9.2, passed 9-19-2005)
§ 115.06 REGULATIONS.
   (A)   A person or entity may conduct a yard sale in the city only once a
month for a period of time not to exceed two consecutive days of sale. The two
days of sale must be consecutive and not on two separate days not consecutive.
   (B)   Any person or entity conducting or holding a sale under this chapter
must clean up and restore their sale site to its original condition as it
existed before any such sale was held or conducted, within one day of the last
day of their sale.
(Ord. 2010-06.01, passed 6-21-2010)
§ 115.99 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm, or corporation found guilty of violating any provision of
this chapter shall be fined up to the amount of $200. Each day a person or
business is conducting a yard sale in violation of this chapter shall
constitute a separate offense. In the alternative, the city may also cause any
business or person conducting a yard sale in violation of this chapter to
immediately cease and desist his or her activities and operations.
(Prior Code, § 115.99) (Ord. 2005-9.2, passed 9-19-2005)
CHAPTER 116: SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESSES
Section
   
116.01   Purpose and findings
   
116.02   Definitions
   
116.03   Classifications
   
116.04   Hours of operation
   
116.05   Location of sexually oriented businesses
   
116.06   Regulations pertaining to exhibition of sexually explicit films on
premises
   
116.07   Loitering, exterior lighting, visibility, and monitoring requirements
   
116.08   Applicability of chapter to existing businesses
   
116.09   Prohibited conduct
   
116.10   Scienter required to prove violation or business liability
 
   
116.99   Penalty
§ 116.01 PURPOSE AND FINDINGS.
   (A)   Purpose. It is the purpose of this chapter to regulate sexually
oriented businesses in order to promote the health, safety, and general welfare
of the citizens of the city, and to establish reasonable and uniform
regulations to prevent the deleterious secondary effects of sexually oriented
businesses within the city. The provisions of this chapter have neither the
purpose nor effect of imposing a limitation or restriction on the content or
reasonable access to any communicative materials, including sexually oriented
materials. Similarly, it is neither the intent nor effect of this chapter to
restrict or deny access by adults to sexually oriented materials protected by
the first amendment, or to deny access by the distributors and exhibitors of
sexually oriented entertainment to their intended market. Neither is it the
intent nor effect of this chapter to condone or legitimize the distribution of
obscene material.
   (B)   Findings and rationale.
      (1)   Based on evidence of the adverse secondary effects of adult uses
presented in hearings and in reports made available to the City Council, and on
findings, interpretations, and narrowing constructions incorporated in the
cases of City of Littleton v. Z.J. Gifts D-4, 1.1.C., 541 U.S. 774 (2004); City
of Los Angeles v. Alameda Books, Inc., 535 U.S. 425 (2002); City of Erie v.
Pap’s A.M., 529 U.S. 277 (2000); City of Renton v. Playtime Theatres, Inc., 475
U.S. 41 (1986), Young v. American Mini Theatres, 427 U.S. 50 (1976), Barnes v.
Glen Theatre, Inc., 501 U.S. 560 (1991); California v. LaRue, 409 U.S. 109
(1972); Bellance v. N.Y. State Liquor Authority, 452 U.S. 714 (1981);
      (2)   Deja Vu of Nashville, Inc. v. Metropolitan Gov’t of Nashville &
Davidson County, 466 F.3d 391 (6th Cir. 2006) (Deja Vu III); Commonwealth v.
Jameson, 215 S.W.3d 9 (Ky. 2006); 729, Inc. v. Kenton County, 2006 WL 2842884
(E.D. Ky. 2006); Deja Vu of Cincinnati, 1.1. C. v. Union Township Bd. Of
Trustees, 411 F.3d 777 (6th Cir. 2005) (en banc); Fantasy Ranch, Inc. v. City
of Arlington, 459 F.3d 546 (5th Cir. 2006); City of Chicago v. Pooh Bah
Enterprises, Inc., 865 N.E.2d 133 (III. 2006); Sensations, Inc. v. City of
Grand Rapids, 2006 WL 2504388 (W.D. Mich. 2006); Andy’s Restaurant & Lounge,
Inc. v. City of Gary, 466 F.3d 550 (7th Cir. 2006); 181 South, Inc. v. Fischer,
454 F.3d 228 (3rd Cir. 2006); Z.J. Gifts D-2, 1.1.C. v. City of Aurora, 136
F.3d 683 (10th Cir. 1998); ILQ Investments, Inc. v. City of Rochester, 25 F.3d
1413 (8th Cir. 1994); Kentucky Restaurant Concepts, Inc. v. City of Louisville,
209 F. Supp. 2d 672 (W. D. Ky. 2002); Restaurant Ventures v. Lexington-Fayette
Urban County Gov’t, 60 S.W.3d 572 (Ky. Ct. App. 2001); World Wide Video of
Washington, Inc. v. City of Spokane, 368 F.3d 1186 (9th Cir. 2004); Deja Vu of
Nashville, Inc., et al v. Metropolitan Government of Nashville & Davidson
County, 274 F.3d 377 (6th Cir. 2001); Ben’s Bar, Inc. v. Village of Somerset,
316 F.3d 702 (7th Cir. 2003); Ctr. for Fair Public Policy v. Maricopa County,
336 F.3d 1153 (9th Cir. 2003); Bigg Wolf Discount Video Sales, Inc. v.
Montgomery County, 256 F. Supp. 2d 385 (D. Md. 2003); Kentucky Restaurant
Concepts, Inc. v. Metro Gov’t, Case No. 04-CI-01967 (Jefferson Circuit Court,
Summary Judgment Order, Dec. 14, 2004); Gammoh v. City of La Habra, 395 F.3d
1114 (9th Cir. 2005); DLS, Inc. v. City of Chattanooga, 107 F.3d 403 (6th Cir.
1997); Brandywine, Inc. v. City of Richmond, 359 F.3d 830 (6th Cir. 2004);
Currence v. City of Cincinnati, 28 Fed. Appx. 438 (6th Cir. Jan. 24, 2002);
Broadway Books v. Roberts, 642 F. Supp. 486 (E.D. Tenn. 1986); Bright Lights,
Inc. v. City of Newport, 830 F. Supp. 378 (E.D. Ky. 1993); Richland Bookmart v.
Nichols, 137 F.3d 435 (6th Cir. 1998); In re Tennessee Public Indecency
Statute, 172 F.3d 873 (6th Cir. Jan. 13, 1999) (table); Bamon Corp. v. City of
Dayton, 923 F.2d 470 (6th Cir. 1991); Triplett Grille, Inc. v. City of Akron,
40 F.3d 129 (6th Cir. 1994); O’Connor v. City & County of Denver, 894 F.2d 1210
(10th Cir. 1990); Threesome Entertainment v. Strittmather, 4 F. Supp. 2d 710
(N.D. Ohio 1998); Lady J. Lingerie, Inc. v. City of Jacksonville, 176 F.3d 1358
(11th Cir. 1999); Williams v. Morgan, 478 F.3d 1316 (11th Cir. 2007); H&A Land
Corp. v. City of Kennedale, 480 F.3d 336 (5th Cir. 2007);
      (3)   Based upon reports concerning secondary effects occurring in and
around sexually oriented businesses, including, but not limited to, Austin,
Texas - 1986; Indianapolis, Indiana - 1984; Garden Grove, California - 1991;
Houston, Texas - 1983, 1997; Phoenix, Arizona - 1979, 1995-1998; Chattanooga,
Tennessee - 1999-2003; Los Angeles, California - 1977; Whither, California -
1978; Spokane, Washington - 2001; St. Cloud, Minnesota - 1994; Littleton,
Colorado - 2004; Oklahoma City, Oklahoma - 1986; Dallas, Texas - 1997;
Kennedale, Texas – 2005; Greensboro, North Carolina - 2003; Amarillo, Texas -
1977; New York, New York Times Square - 1994; the Report of the Attorney
General’s Working Group On The Regulation Of Sexually Oriented Businesses,
(June 6, 1989, State of Minnesota); and Kenton and Campbell Counties, Kentucky
– 2003, 2005; and
      (4)   The City Council finds the following.
         (a)   Sexually oriented businesses, as a category of commercial uses,
are associated with a wide variety of adverse secondary effects including, but
not limited to, personal and property crimes, prostitution, potential spread of
disease, lewdness, public indecency, obscenity, illicit drug use and drug
trafficking, negative impacts on surrounding properties, urban blight, litter,
and sexual assault and exploitation.
         (b)   Each of the foregoing negative secondary effects constitutes a
harm which the city has a substantial government interest in preventing and/or
abating. This substantial government interest in preventing secondary effects,
which is the city’s rationale for this chapter, exists independent of any
comparative analysis between sexually oriented and non-sexually oriented
businesses. Additionally, the city’s interest in regulating sexually oriented
businesses extends to preventing future secondary effects of either current or
future sexually oriented businesses that may locate in the city. The city finds
that the cases and documentation relied on in this chapter are reasonably
believed to be relevant to said secondary effects.
(Prior Code, § 116.01) (Ord. 2007-10.02, passed 10-15-2007)
§ 116.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADULT BOOKSTORE or ADULT VIDEO STORE.
      (1)   A commercial establishment which, as one of its principal business
activities, offers for sale or rental for any form of consideration any one or
more of the following: books, magazines, periodicals, or other printed matter,
or photographs, films, motion pictures, video cassettes, compact discs, digital
video discs, slides, or other visual representations which are characterized by
their emphasis upon the display of “specified sexual activities” or “specified
anatomical areas.”
      (2)   A “principal business activity” exists where the commercial
establishment:
         (a)   Has a substantial portion of its displayed merchandise which
consists of said items;
         (b)   Has a substantial portion of the wholesale value of its
displayed merchandise which consists of said items;
         (c)   Has a substantial portion of the retail value of its displayed
merchandise which consists of said items;
         (d)   Derives a substantial portion of its revenues from the sale or
rental, for any form of consideration of said items;
         (e)   Devotes a substantial section of its interior business space, or
at least 500 square feet of its interior business space, to the display, sale,
and/or rental of said items (aisles and walkways used to access said items
shall be included in “interior business space”);
         (f)   Regularly offers for sale or rental at least 1,000 of said items
and limits access to the premises or to the portion of the premises occupied by
said items to adults only;
         (g)   Regularly advertises itself or holds itself out, using “adult,”
“XXX,” “sex,” “erotic,” or substantially similar language, as an establishment
that caters to adult sexual interests; or
         (h)   Maintains an “adult arcade,” which means any place to which the
public is permitted or invited wherein coin-operated or slug-operated or
electronically, electrically, or mechanically controlled still or motion
picture machines, projectors, or other image-producing devices are regularly
maintained to show images to five or fewer persons per machine at any one time,
and where the images so displayed are characterized by their emphasis upon
matter exhibiting “specified sexual activities” or “specified anatomical
areas.”
   ADULT CABARET. A nightclub, bar, juice bar, restaurant, bottle club, or
similar commercial establishment, whether or not alcoholic beverages are
served, which regularly features persons who appear semi-nude.
   ADULT MOTION PICTURE THEATER. A commercial establishment where films, motion
pictures, videocassettes, slides, or similar photographic reproductions which
are characterized by their emphasis upon the display of “specified sexual
activities” or “specified anatomical areas” are regularly shown to more than
five persons for any form of consideration.
   CHARACTERIZED BY. Describing the essential character or quality of an item.
As applied in this chapter, no business shall be classified as a sexually
oriented business by virtue of showing, selling, or renting materials rated NC-
17 or R by the Motion Picture Association of America.
   CITY. City of Cloverport, Kentucky.
   EMPLOY, EMPLOYEE, and EMPLOYMENT. Describes and pertain to any person who
performs any service on the premises of a sexually oriented business, on a
full-time, part-time, or contract basis, whether or not the person is
denominated an employee, independent contractor, agent, or otherwise. EMPLOYEE
does not include a person exclusively on the premises for repair or maintenance
of the premises or for the delivery of goods to the premises.
   ESTABLISH or ESTABLISHMENT. Any of the following:
      (1)   The opening or commencement of any sexually oriented business as a
new business;
      (2)   The conversion of an existing business, whether or not a sexually
oriented business, to any sexually oriented business; or
      (3)   The addition of any sexually oriented business to any other
existing sexually oriented business.
   NUDITY or A STATE OF NUDITY. The showing of the human male or female
genitals, pubic area, vulva, anus, anal cleft, or cleavage with less than a
fully opaque covering, or the showing of the female breast with less than a
fully opaque covering of any part of the nipple and areola.
   OPERATOR. Any person on the premises of a sexually oriented business who
causes the business to function or who puts or keeps in operation the business
or who is authorized to manage the business or exercise overall operational
control of the business premises. A person may be found to be operating or
causing to be operated a sexually oriented business whether or not that person
is an owner, part owner, or licensee of the business.
   PERSON. An individual, proprietorship, partnership, corporation,
association, or other legal entity.
   PREMISES. The real property upon which the sexually oriented business is
located, and all appurtenances thereto and buildings thereon, including, but
not limited to, the sexually oriented business, the grounds, private walkways,
and parking lots and/or parking garages adjacent thereto, under the ownership,
control, or supervision of the licensee, as described in the application for a
sexually oriented business license.
   REGULARLY. The consistent and repeated doing of the act so described.
   SEMI-NUDE or STATE OF SEMI-NUDITY. The showing of the female breast below a
horizontal line across the top of the areola and extending across the width of
the breast at that point, or the showing of the male or female buttocks. This
definition shall include the lower portion of the human female breast, but
shall not include any portion of the cleavage of the human female breasts
exhibited by a bikini, dress, blouse, shirt, leotard, or similar wearing
apparel provided the areola is not exposed in whole or in part.
   SEMI-NUDE MODEL STUDIO. A place where persons regularly appear in a state of
semi-nudity for money or any form of consideration in order to be observed,
sketched, drawn, painted, sculptured, photographed, or similarly depicted by
other persons. This definition does not apply to any place where persons
appearing in a state of semi-nudity did so in a modeling class operated:
      (1)   By a college, junior college, or university supported entirely or
partly by taxation;
      (2)   By a private college or university which maintains and operates
educational programs in which credits are transferable to a college, junior
college, or university supported entirely or partly by taxation; or
      (3)   In a structure:
         (a)   Which has no sign visible from the exterior of the structure and
no other advertising that indicates a semi-nude person is available for
viewing; and
         (b)   Where, in order to participate in a class a student must enroll
at least three days in advance of the class.
   SEXUAL DEVICE. Any three dimensional object designed and marketed for
stimulation of the male or female human genitals, anus, female breast, or for
sadomasochistic use or abuse of oneself or others, and shall include devices
such as dildos, vibrators, penis pumps, and physical representations of the
human genital organs. Nothing in this definition shall be construed to include
devices primarily intended for protection against sexually transmitted diseases
or for preventing pregnancy.
   SEXUAL DEVICE SHOP. A commercial establishment that regularly features
sexual devices. Nothing in this definition shall be construed to include any
pharmacy, drug store, medical clinic, or any establishment primarily dedicated
to providing medical or healthcare products or services, nor shall this
definition be construed to include commercial establishments which do not
restrict access to their premises by reason of age.
   SEXUAL ENCOUNTER CENTER. A business or commercial enterprise that, as one of
its principal business purposes, purports to offer for any form of
consideration, physical contact in the form of wrestling or tumbling between
persons of the opposite sex when one or more of the persons is semi-nude.
   SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESS. An ADULT BOOKSTORE or ADULT VIDEO STORE, an
ADULT CABARET, an ADULT MOTION PICTURE THEATER, a SEMI-NUDE MODEL STUDIO, a
SEXUAL DEVICE SHOP, or a SEXUAL ENCOUNTER CENTER.
   SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL AREAS.
      (1)   Less than completely and opaquely covered: human genitals; pubic
region; buttock; and female breast below a point immediately above the top of
the areola; and
      (2)   Human male genitals in a discernibly turgid state, even if
completely and opaquely covered.
   SPECIFIED SEXUAL ACTIVITY. Any of the following:
      (1)   Intercourse, oral copulation, masturbation, or sodomy; or
      (2)   Excretory functions as a part of or in connection with any of the
activities described in division (1) above.
   SUBSTANTIAL. At least 35% of the item(s) so modified.
   TRANSFER OF OWNERSHIP OR CONTROL (OF A SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESS). Any of
the following:
      (1)   The sale, lease, or sublease of the business;
      (2)   The transfer of securities which constitute an influential interest
in the business, whether by sale, exchange, or similar means; or
      (3)   The establishment of a trust, gift, or other similar legal device
which transfers the ownership or control of the business, except for transfer
by bequest or other operation of law upon the death of the person possessing
the ownership or control.
   VIEWING ROOM. The room, booth, or area where a patron of a sexually oriented
business would ordinarily be positioned while watching a film, videocassette,
digital video disc, or other video reproduction.
(Prior Code, § 116.02) (Ord. 2007-10.02, passed 10-15-2007)
§ 116.03 CLASSIFICATIONS.
   The classifications for sexually oriented businesses shall be as follows:
   (A)   Adult bookstore or adult video store;
   (B)   Adult cabaret;
   (C)   Adult motion picture theater;
   (D)   Semi-nude model studio;
   (E)   Sexual device shop; and
   (F)   Sexual encounter center.
(Prior Code, § 116.03) (Ord. 2007-10.02, passed 10-15-2007)
§ 116.04 HOURS OF OPERATION.
   No sexually oriented business shall be or remain open for business between
12:00 midnight and 6:00 a.m. on any day.
(Prior Code, § 116.04) (Ord. 2007-10.02, passed 10-15-2007) Penalty, see §
116.99
§ 116.05 LOCATION OF SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESSES.
   (A)   Sexually oriented businesses shall not be required to obtain a
conditional use permit or special use permit.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to establish, operate, or cause to be operated a
sexually oriented business in the city, unless said sexually oriented business
is at least: 1,000 feet from any parcel occupied by a house of worship, public
or private elementary or secondary school, public park, or any residence.
   (C)   For the purpose of this section, measurements shall be made in a
straight line in all directions without regard to intervening structures or
objects, from the closest part of any structure, including signs and roof
overhangs, used in conjunction with the sexually oriented business to the
closest point on a property boundary or right-of-way associated with any of the
land use(s) identified in division (B) above.
   (D)   Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this code of ordinances, a
nonconforming sexually oriented business, lawfully existing in all respects
under law prior to the effective date of this chapter, may continue to operate
for two years following that date in order to make a reasonable recoupment of
its investment in its current location. At the conclusion of said two years,
the use will no longer be recognized as a lawful nonconforming use, provided
that a nonconforming sexually oriented business may apply for one or more six
month extensions of the original two-year period upon a showing of financial
hardship. An application for an initial extension based upon financial hardship
(“hardship exception”) shall be made at least 60 days before the conclusion of
the aforementioned two-year period. If a hardship extension is granted,
subsequent applications for hardship extensions shall be made at least 60 days
before the conclusion of the non-conforming sexually oriented business’s
current extension period.
(Prior Code, § 116.05) (Ord. 2007-10.02, passed 10-15-2007) Penalty, see §
116.99
§ 116.06 REGULATIONS PERTAINING TO EXHIBITION OF SEXUALLY EXPLICIT FILMS ON
PREMISES.
   (A)   A person who operates or causes to be operated a sexually oriented
business which exhibits in a booth or viewing room on the premises, through any
mechanical or electronic image-producing device, a film, video cassette,
digital video disc, or other video reproduction characterized by an emphasis on
the display of specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas shall
comply with the following requirements.
      (1)   The interior premises shall be equipped with overhead lighting
fixtures of sufficient intensity to illuminate every place to which patrons are
permitted access at an illumination of not less than five footcandles as
measured at the floor level. It shall be the duty of the operator, and of any
employees present on the premises, to ensure that the illumination described
above is maintained at all times that the premises is occupied by patrons or
open for business.
      (2)   It shall be the duty of the operator, and of any employees present
on the premises, to ensure that no sexual activity occurs in or on the licensed
premises.
      (3)   It shall be the duty of the operator to post conspicuous signs in
well-lighted entry areas of the business stating all of the following:
         (a)   That the occupancy of viewing rooms less than 150 square feet is
limited to one person;
         (b)   That sexual activity on the premises is prohibited;
         (c)   That the making of openings between viewing rooms is prohibited;
         (d)   That violators will be required to leave the premises; and
         (e)   That violations of these regulations are unlawful.
      (4)   It shall be the duty of the operator to enforce the regulations
articulated in divisions (A)(3)(a) though (A)(3)(d) above.
      (5)   The interior of the premises shall be configured in such a manner
that there is an unobstructed view from an operator’s station of every area of
the premises, including the interior of each viewing room but excluding
restrooms, to which any patron is permitted access for any purpose. An
operator’s station shall not exceed 32 square feet of floor area. If the
premises has two or more operator’s stations designated, then the interior of
the premises shall be configured in such a manner that there is an unobstructed
view of each area of the premises to which any patron is permitted access for
any purpose (excluding restrooms) from at least one of the operator’s stations.
The view required in this section must be by direct line of sight from the
operator’s station. It is the duty of the operator to ensure that at least one
employee is on duty and situated in each operator’s station at all times that
any patron is on the premises. It shall be the duty of the operator, and it
shall also be the duty of any employees present on the premises, to ensure that
the view area specified in this section remains unobstructed by any doors,
curtains, walls, merchandise, display racks, or other materials or enclosures
at all times that any patron is present on the premises.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for a person having a duty under this section to
knowingly fail to fulfill that duty.
(Prior Code, § 116.06) (Ord. 2007-10.02, passed 10-15-2007) Penalty, see §
116.99
§ 116.07 LOITERING, EXTERIOR LIGHTING, VISIBILITY, AND MONITORING REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the operator of a sexually oriented business
to post conspicuous signs stating that no loitering is permitted on such
property; designate one or more employees to monitor the activities of persons
on such property by visually inspecting such property at least once every 90
minutes or inspecting such property by use of video cameras and monitors; and
provide lighting of the exterior premises to provide for visual inspection or
video monitoring to prohibit loitering. If used, video cameras and monitors
shall operate continuously at all times that the premises are open for
business. The monitors shall be installed within an operator’s station.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for a person having a duty under this section to
knowingly fail to fulfill that duty.
   (C)   No sexually oriented business shall erect a fence, wall, or other
barrier that prevents any portion of the parking lot(s) for the establishment
from being visible from a public right-of-way.
(Prior Code, § 116.07) (Ord. 2007-10.02, passed 10-15-2007) Penalty, see §
116.99
§ 116.08 APPLICABILITY OF CHAPTER TO EXISTING BUSINESSES.
   Existing sexually oriented businesses that do not have interior
configurations which meet at least the minimum requirements of this chapter
shall be given 90 days from the effective date of this chapter to comply with
the interior configuration requirements of this chapter. During said 90 days,
sexually oriented businesses and all persons in such establishments shall
conform to and abide by all other provisions of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 116.08) (Ord. 2007-10.02, passed 10-15-2007)
§ 116.09 PROHIBITED CONDUCT.
   (A)   It is unlawful for a sexually oriented business to knowingly violate
the following regulations or to knowingly allow an employee or any other person
to violate the following regulations.
      (1)   It shall be a violation of this chapter for a patron, employee, or
any other person to knowingly or intentionally, in a sexually oriented
business, appear in a state of nudity, regardless of whether such public nudity
is expressive in nature.
      (2)   It shall be a violation of this chapter for a person to knowingly
or intentionally, in a sexually oriented business, appear in a semi-nude
condition unless the person is an employee who, while semi-nude, remains at
least six feet from any patron or customer and on a stage at least 18 inches
from the floor in a room of at least 1,000 square feet.
      (3)   It shall be a violation of this chapter for any employee who
regularly appears semi-nude in a sexually oriented business to knowingly or
intentionally touch a customer or the clothing of a customer on the premises of
a sexually oriented business.
      (4)   It shall be a violation of this chapter for any person to sell,
use, or consume alcoholic beverages on the premises of a sexually oriented
business.
      (5)   It shall be a violation of this chapter for any person to knowingly
allow a person under the age of 18 years on the premises of a sexually oriented
business.
   (B)   A sign in a form to be prescribed by the City Council, and summarizing
the provisions of divisions (A)(1) through (A)(5) above, shall be posted near
the entrance of the sexually oriented business in such a manner as to be
clearly visible to patrons upon entry.
(Prior Code, § 116.09) (Ord. 2007-10.02, passed 10-15-2007) Penalty, see §
116.99
§ 116.10 SCIENTER REQUIRED TO PROVE VIOLATION OR BUSINESS LIABILITY.
   This chapter does not impose strict liability. Unless a culpable mental
state is otherwise specified herein, a showing of a knowing or reckless mental
state is necessary to establish a violation of a provision of this chapter.
Notwithstanding anything to the contrary, for the purposes of this chapter, an
act by an employee shall be imputed to the sexually oriented business for
purposes of finding a violation of this chapter only if an officer, director,
or general partner, or a person who managed, supervised, or controlled the
operation of the business premises, knowingly or recklessly allowed such act to
occur on the premises. It shall be a defense to liability that the person to
whom liability is imputed was powerless to prevent the act.
(Prior Code, § 116.10) (Ord. 2007-10.02, passed 10-15-2007)
§ 116.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   A person who knowingly violates, disobeys, omits, neglects, or refuses
to comply with or resists the enforcement of any of the provisions of this
chapter shall be guilty of a Class A misdemeanor, and, upon conviction, shall
be punishable by up to a $500 fine and/or up to 12 months in jail. Each day a
violation is committed, or permitted to continue, shall constitute a separate
offense and shall be fined as such.
   (B)   The city’s legal counsel is hereby authorized to institute civil
proceedings necessary for the enforcement of this chapter to prosecute,
restrain, or correct violations hereof. Such proceedings, including injunction,
shall be brought in the name of the city, provided, however, that nothing in
this section and no action taken hereunder, shall be held to exclude such
criminal or administrative proceedings as may be authorized by other provisions
of this chapter, or any of the laws in force in the city or to exempt anyone
violating this code or any part of the said laws from any penalty which may be
incurred.
(Prior Code, § 116.99) (Ord. 2007-10.02, passed 10-15-2007)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   STATUTORY OFFENSES AGAINST PERSONS
      
131.   STATUTORY FAMILY OFFENSES
      
132.   STATUTORY OFFENSES AGAINST PROPERTY
      
133.   STATUTORY OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC MORALS
      
134.   STATUTORY GAMBLING OFFENSES
      
135.   STATUTORY OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC    ADMINISTRATION AND JUSTICE
      
136.   STATUTORY OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC ORDER
      
137.   STATUTORY SEXUAL OFFENSES
      
138.   STATUTORY INCHOATE OFFENSES
      
139.   OFFENSES AGAINST CITY REGULATIONS
      
140.   GENERAL PENALTY FOR TITLE XIII
CHAPTER 130: STATUTORY OFFENSES AGAINST PERSONS
Editor’s note:
   This chapter contains references to those sections of the Kentucky Revised
Statutes which prohibit the most common offenses against persons. These
citations are intended only as convenient references for enforcement officers
in citing offenders under state law. It is not the intention of the
municipality to incorporate such statutory provisions in this code of
ordinances, and such provisions are specifically not incorporated by reference.
Offense KRS Section Penalty Class
Offense                        KRS Section Penalty Class
Assault                                    
   First degree             KRS 508.010 B felony
   Second degree            KRS 508.020 C felony
   Third degree             KRS 508.025 B misdemeanor; D felony
   Fourth degree            KRS 508.030 A misdemeanor
   Under emotional disturbanKRS 508.040 B misdemeanor; D felony
Criminal abuse
   First degree             KRS 508.100 B or C felony
   Second degree            KRS 508.110 D felony
   Third degree             KRS 508.120 A misdemeanor
Criminal coercion              KRS 509.080 A misdemeanor
Custodial interference         KRS 509.070 D felony
Kidnapping                     KRS 509.040 A or B felony; capital offense
Manslaughter
   First degree             KRS 507.030 B felony
   Second degree            KRS 507.040 C felony
Menacing                       KRS 508.050 B misdemeanor
Murder                         KRS 507.020 Capital offense
Reckless homicide              KRS 507.050 D felony
Terroristic threatening        KRS 508.080 A misdemeanor
Unlawful imprisonment
   First degree             KRS 509.020 D felony
   Second degree            KRS 509.030 A misdemeanor
Wanton endangerment
   First degree             KRS 508.060 D felony
   Second degree            KRS 508.070 A misdemeanor
Penalty, see
Ch. 140
CHAPTER 131: STATUTORY FAMILY OFFENSES
Editor’s note:
   This chapter contains references to those sections of the Kentucky Revised
Statutes which prohibit the most common family offenses. These citations are
intended only as convenient references for enforcement officers in citing
offenders under state law. It is not the intention of the municipality to
incorporate such statutory provisions in this code of ordinances, and such
provisions are specifically not incorporated by reference.
Offense KRS Section Penalty Class
Offense                                    KRS Section Penalty Class
Bigamy                                     KRS 530.010 D felony
Concealing birth of infant                 KRS 530.030 A misdemeanor
Incest                                     KRS 530.020 A, B, or C felony
Incompetent person, endangering welfare of KRS 530.080 A misdemeanor
Minors
   Abandonment of                       KRS 530.040 D felony
   Endangering welfare of               KRS 530.060 A misdemeanor
   Unlawful transaction with
      First degree felony            KRS 530.064 A, B, or C felony
      Second degree                  KRS 530.065 D felony
      Third degree                   KRS 530.070 A misdemeanor
Nonsupport                                 KRS 530.050 A misdemeanor
Nonsupport, flagrant                       KRS 530.050 D felony
Penalty, see
Ch. 140
CHAPTER 132: STATUTORY OFFENSES AGAINST PROPERTY
Editor’s note:
   This chapter contains references to those sections of the Kentucky Revised
Statutes which prohibit the most common offenses against property. These
citations are intended only as convenient references for enforcement officers
in citing offenders under state law. It is not the intention of the
municipality to incorporate such statutory provisions in this code of
ordinances, and such provisions are specifically not incorporated by reference.
Offense KRS Section Penalty Class
Offense                             KRS Section Penalty Class
Arson                                           
   Defrauding insurer            KRS 513.060 D felony
   First degree                  KRS 513.020 A felony
   Second degree                 KRS 513.030 B felony
   Third degree                  KRS 513.040 D felony
Burglary                                        
   First degree                  KRS 511.020 A or B felony
   Second degree                 KRS 511.030 B or C felony
   Third degree                  KRS 511.040 C or D felony
   Possession of burglar’s toolKRS 511.050 A misdemeanor
Criminal mischief                               
   First degree                  KRS 512.020 C or D felony
   Second degree                 KRS 512.030 A misdemeanor; D felony
   Third degree                  KRS 512.040 A or B misdemeanor
Criminal trespass                               
   First degree                  KRS 511.060 A misdemeanor; D felony
   Second degree                 KRS 511.070 A or B misdemeanor
   Third degree                  KRS 511.080 Violation; B misdemeanor
Forgery and related offenses                    
   Criminal simulation, second   KRS 516.110 A misdemeanor
degree
   Forgery                                   
      First degree            KRS 516.020 C felony
      Second degree           KRS 516.030 D felony
      Third degree            KRS 516.040 A misdemeanor
   Possession of forged instrumen            
      First degree            KRS 516.050 C felony
      Second degree           KRS 516.060 D felony
      Third degree            KRS 516.070 A misdemeanor
   Possession of forgery device  KRS 516.090 D felony
   Using slugs                               
      First degree            KRS 516.120 D felony
      Second degree           KRS 516.130 B misdemeanor
Littering, criminal                 KRS 512.070 A misdemeanor
Noxious substances                              
   Criminal possession of        KRS 512.060 B misdemeanor
   Criminal use of               KRS 512.050 B misdemeanor
Posting advertisements unlawfully   KRS 512.080 Violation
Robbery                                         
   First degree                  KRS 515.020 A or B felony
   Second degree                 KRS 515.030 B or C felony
Theft and related offenses                      
   Device for theft of telephone KRS 514.065 A misdemeanor; D felony
services
   Obscuring identity of machine KRS 514.120 A misdemeanor; C or D felony
   Possession of stolen mail     KRS 514.150 D felony
   Receiving stolen property     KRS 514.110 A or B misdemeanor; C or D
                                                felony
   Theft by deception            KRS 514.040 A or B misdemeanor; C or D
                                                felony
   Theft by extortion            KRS 514.080 A or B misdemeanor; C or D
                                                felony
   Theft by failure to make      KRS 514.070 A or B misdemeanor; C or D
disposition                                     felony
   Theft by unlawful taking      KRS 514.030 A or B misdemeanor; A, B, C or
                                                D felony
   Theft of labor                KRS 514.090 A or B misdemeanor; C or D
                                                felony
   Theft of mail matter          KRS 514.140 D felony
   Theft of property             KRS 514.050 A or B misdemeanor; C or D
                                                felony
   Theft of services             KRS 514.060 A or B misdemeanor; C or D
                                                felony
   Unauthorized use of vehicle   KRS 514.100 A misdemeanor; D felony
Penalty, see Ch. 140
CHAPTER 133: STATUTORY OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC MORALS
Editor’s note:
   This chapter contains references to those sections of the Kentucky Revised
Statutes which prohibit the most common offenses against public morals. These
citations are intended only as convenient references for enforcement officers
in citing offenders under state law. It is not the intention of the
municipality to incorporate such statutory provisions in this code of
ordinances, and such provisions are specifically not incorporated by reference.
Offense KRS Section Penalty Class
Offense                                     KRS Section Penalty Class
Pornography                                             
   Advertising obscene material          KRS 531.050 B misdemeanor
   Distribution                                      
      Distribution of obscene matter  KRS 531.020 A or B misdemeanor
      Distribution to minor           KRS 531.030 A misdemeanor; D felony
      Using minors to distribute      KRS 531.040 A misdemeanor; D felony
   Portrayal of sexual performance by min            
      Advertising material containing KRS 531.360 C or D felony
      Distributing matter containing  KRS 531.340 A misdemeanor or D
                                                        felony
      Promoting sale of matter containKRS 531.350 B, C or D felony
      Using minors to distribute such KRS 531.370 C or D felony
matter
   Promoting sale of obscenity           KRS 531.060 A or B misdemeanor; D
                                                        felony
   Sexual performance by minor                       
      Promotion of                    KRS 531.320 A, B, or C felony
      Use of minor                    KRS 531.310 A, B, or C felony
Prostitution offenses                                   
   Loitering for prostitution purposes   KRS 529.080 Violation; B
                                                        misdemeanor
   Permitting prostitution               KRS 529.070 B misdemeanor
   Promoting prostitution                KRS 529.040 A misdemeanor; D felony
   Prostitution                          KRS 529.020 B misdemeanor
Penalty, see
Ch. 140
CHAPTER 134: STATUTORY GAMBLING OFFENSES
Editor’s note:
   This chapter contains references to those sections of the Kentucky Revised
Statutes which prohibit the most common gambling offenses. These citations are
intended only as convenient references for enforcement officers in citing
offenders under state law. It is not the intention of the municipality to
incorporate such statutory provisions in this code of ordinances, and such
provisions are specifically not incorporated by reference.
Offense KRS Section Penalty Class
Offense                                   KRS Section Penalty Class
Conspiracy to promote gambling            KRS 528.040 D felony
Horse races, messenger betting prohibited KRS 528.110 A misdemeanor
Pari-mutuel wagering                      KRS 528.120 A misdemeanor
Permitting gambling                       KRS 528.070 B misdemeanor
Possession of gambling device             KRS 528.080 A misdemeanor
Possession of gambling records                        
   First degree                        KRS 528.050 D felony
   Second degree                       KRS 528.060 A misdemeanor
Promoting gambling                                    
   First degree                        KRS 528.020 D felony
   Second degree                       KRS 528.030 A misdemeanor
Penalty, see
Ch. 140
CHAPTER 135: STATUTORY OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC ADMINISTRATION AND JUSTICE
Editor’s note:
   This chapter contains references to those sections of the Kentucky Revised
Statutes which prohibit the most common offenses against public administration
and justice. These citations are intended only as convenient references for
enforcement officers in citing offenders under state law. It is not the
intention of the municipality to incorporate such statutory provisions in this
code of ordinances, and such provisions are specifically not incorporated by
reference.
Offense KRS Section Penalty Class
Offense                               KRS Section       Penalty Class
Bribery and related offenses                            C felony
   Bribery of public servant       KRS 521.020       D felony
   Receiving unlawful compensation KRS 521.040       A misdemeanor
   Soliciting unlawful compensationKRS 521.030       B misdemeanor
Escape and related offenses
   Bail jumping
      First degree              KRS 520.070       D felony
      Second degree             KRS 520.080       A misdemeanor
   Escape
      First degree              KRS 520.020       C felony
      Second degree             KRS 520.030       D felony
      Third degree              KRS 520.040       B misdemeanor
   Hindering prosecution or
apprehension
      First degree              KRS 520.120       D felony
      Second degree             KRS 520.130       A misdemeanor
   Promoting contraband
      First degree              KRS 520.050       D felony
      Second degree             KRS 520.060       A misdemeanor
   Resisting arrest                KRS 520.090       A misdemeanor
   Resisting order to stop motor   KRS 520.100(1)(b) A misdemeanor
vehicle
Judicial administration, interference
with
   Bribe receiving by juror        KRS 524.070       D felony
   Bribe receiving by witness      KRS 524.030       D felony
   Bribing a juror                 KRS 524.060       D felony
   Bribing a witness               KRS 524.020       D felony
   Harassing a witness                               A misdemeanor
   Intimidating a judicial officer                   D felony
   Intimidating a juror                              D felony
   Intimidating a witness          KRS 524.040       D felony
   Jury tampering                  KRS 524.090       D felony
   Retaliating against a witness   KRS 524.055       D felony
   Simulating legal process        KRS 524.110       A misdemeanor; D felony
   Tampering with physical evidenceKRS 524.100       D felony
   Tampering with a witness        KRS 524.050       A misdemeanor
   Unlawful practice of law        KRS 524.130       A misdemeanor
Perjury and related offenses
   False swearing                  KRS 523.040       B misdemeanor; D felony
   Perjury
      First degree              KRS 523.020       D felony
      Second degree             KRS 523.030       A misdemeanor
   Unsworn falsification to        KRS 523.100       B misdemeanor
authorities
Public administration, obstruction of
   Compounding a crime             KRS 519.030       A misdemeanor
   Falsely reporting an incident   KRS 519.040       A misdemeanor; D felony
   Impersonating a public servant  KRS 519.050       A misdemeanor
   Obstructing governmental        KRS 519.020       A misdemeanor
operations
   Tampering with public records   KRS 519.060       D felony
Public office, abuse of
   Misuse of confidential informatiKRS 522.040       D felony
   Official misconduct
      First degree              KRS 522.020       A misdemeanor
      Second degree             KRS 522.030       B misdemeanor
Penalty, see
Ch. 140
CHAPTER 136: STATUTORY OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC ORDER
Editor’s note:
   This chapter contains references to those sections of the Kentucky Revised
Statutes which prohibit the most common offenses against public order. These
citations are intended only as convenient references for enforcement officers
in citing offenders under state law. It is not the intention of the
municipality to incorporate such statutory provisions in this code of
ordinances, and such provisions are specifically not incorporated by reference.
Offense KRS Section Penalty Class
Offense                                  KRS Section Penalty Class
Abuse of corpse                          KRS 525.120 D felony
Cruelty to animals
   First degree                       KRS 525.125 D felony
   Second degree                      KRS 525.130 A misdemeanor
Desecration of venerated objects
   First degree                       KRS 525.105 C felony
   Second degree                      KRS 525.110 A misdemeanor
Disorderly conduct; second degree        KRS 525.060 B misdemeanor
Disrupting meetings or processions       KRS 525.150 B misdemeanor
Eavesdropping and related offenses
   Divulging illegally obtained       KRS 526.060 A misdemeanor
information
   Eavesdropping                      KRS 526.020 D felony
   Installing eavesdropping device    KRS 526.030 D felony
   Possessing eavesdropping device    KRS 526.040 A misdemeanor
   Tampering with private communicatioKRS 526.050 A misdemeanor
Failure to disperse                      KRS 525.160 B misdemeanor
Firearms and weapons
   (Editor's note: KRS 65.870 prohibits any city from regulating the
transfer, ownership, possession, carrying, or transportation of firearms,
ammunition, or components of firearms or combinations thereof.)
Harassing communications                 KRS 525.080 B misdemeanor
Harassment                               KRS 525.070 Violation; B misdemeanor
Inciting to riot                         KRS 525.040 A misdemeanor
Loitering                                KRS 525.090 Violation
Obstructing highway or public passage    KRS 525.140 B misdemeanor
Public intoxication                      KRS 525.100 B misdemeanor
Riot
   First degree                       KRS 525.020 D felony
   Second degree                      KRS 525.030 A misdemeanor
Unlawful assembly                        KRS 525.050 B misdemeanor
Penalty, see
Ch. 140
CHAPTER 137: STATUTORY SEXUAL OFFENSES
Editor’s note:
   This chapter contains references to those sections of the Kentucky Revised
Statutes which prohibit the most common offenses against public order. These
citations are intended only as convenient references for enforcement officers
in citing offenders under state law. It is not the intention of the
municipality to incorporate such statutory provisions in this code of
ordinances, and such provisions are specifically not incorporated by reference.
Offense KRS Section Penalty Class
Offense                          KRS Section Penalty Class
Indecent exposure, second degree KRS 510.150 B misdemeanor
Rape
   First degree               KRS 510.040 A or B felony
   Second degree              KRS 510.050 C felony
   Third degree               KRS 510.060 D felony
Sexual abuse
   First degree               KRS 510.110 C or D felony
   Second degree              KRS 510.120 A misdemeanor
   Third degree               KRS 510.130 B misdemeanor
Sexual misconduct                KRS 510.140 A misdemeanor
Sodomy
   First degree               KRS 510.070 A or B felony
   Second degree              KRS 510.080 C felony
   Third degree               KRS 510.090 D felony
   Fourth degree              KRS 510.100 A misdemeanor
Penalty, see
Ch. 140
CHAPTER 138: STATUTORY INCHOATE OFFENSES
Editor’s note:
   This chapter contains references to those sections of the Kentucky Revised
Statutes which prohibit the most common offenses against public order. These
citations are intended only as convenient references for enforcement officers
in citing offenders under state law. It is not the intention of the
municipality to incorporate such statutory provisions in this code of
ordinances, and such provisions are specifically not incorporated by reference.
 
Offense               KRS Section Penalty Class
Criminal attempt      KRS 506.010 A or B misdemeanor; B or C felony
Criminal conspiracy   KRS 506.040 A or B misdemeanor; B or C felony
Criminal facilitation KRS 506.080 A or B misdemeanor; D felony
Criminal solicitation KRS 506.030 A or B misdemeanor; B or C felony
Criminal syndicate    KRS 506.120 B or C felony
Penalty, see
Ch. 140
CHAPTER 139: OFFENSES AGAINST CITY REGULATIONS
Section
   
139.01   Curfew for minors
   
139.02   Failure to assist an officer
   
139.03   Falsely reporting an incident; false alarms
   
139.04   Discharge of firearm or other dangerous weapon
   
139.05   Prohibition possession or sale of AM cannabinoids, CP cannabinoids,
JWH cannabinoids, or HU cannabinoids synthetic cannabinoids agnostis
 
   
139.99   Penalty
§ 139.01 CURFEW FOR MINORS.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      ALLOW. Either permit or neglect to prevent conduct in violation of this
section, provided that the parent or guardian must have actual or constructive
knowledge of the offending conduct, that is, the parent or guardian must
actually know that the minor in his or her custody is violating this section,
or the circumstances must be such that a reasonably prudent parent or guardian
should have known that the conduct of the minor was in violation of this
section.
      EMERGENCY. An unforeseen combination of circumstances or the resulting
state that calls for immediate action. The term includes, but is not limited
to, a human-made or natural disaster, automobile accident, or any situation
requiring immediate action to prevent serious bodily injury or loss of life.
      MINOR. Any unemancipated person under 18 years of age (17 or under).
      PARENT. Any person having legal custody of a minor as a natural or
adoptive parent, as a legal guardian, as a person who stands “in loco
parentis,” or as a person to whom legal custody has been given or directed by
order of a court.
      PUBLIC PLACE. A place to which the public or a substantial group of
persons has access and includes, but is not limited to, highways, streets,
alleyways, transportation facilities, schools, places of amusement, parks,
places of business, playgrounds and hallways, lobbies, and other common areas
of apartment houses, hotels, hospitals, office buildings, shops, stores,
restaurants, and other similar commercial establishments.
      REASONABLE NECESSITY. That which an ordinarily prudent person would
consider rational, just and appropriate under the same or similar
circumstances.
      REMAIN. To stay behind, to tarry, or linger upon in any public place.
   (B)   Parental responsibility.
      (1)   A parent shall not allow any minor in his or her lawful custody to
be or remain in or upon a public place in the city between the hours of 11:00
p.m. and 5:00 a.m. during any day of the week, under circumstances not
constituting one or more of the exceptions enumerated in division (C) below.
      (2)   Any parent who fails to comply with division (A) above shall be
guilty of a violation as provided in division (D) below.
   (C)   Responsible parental control; defenses. It shall not be considered a
violation of this section, and it shall be a defense to any prosecution under
division (B)(2) above if during the event and time in question, the minor was:
      (1)   Accompanied by his or her parent or guardian;
      (2)   Accompanied by an adult authorized by a parent or guardian of such
minor;
      (3)   When the minor, who is a duly authorized and licensed driver, is
operating a motor vehicle within the city for the purpose of passing through,
by direct route, from one location to another either within or out of the city
or county, including all minors that may also be within the vehicle;
      (4)   Involved in an emergency;
      (5)   Engaged in any lawful employment activity, or going to or returning
home from any lawful employment activity, without any detour or stop;
      (6)   When in the case of reasonable necessity, said minor is on an
errand at the direction of his or her parent or guardian, without any detour or
stop;
      (7)   When in the case of other reasonable necessity, but only after such
minor’s parent or guardian has communicated to the County Sheriff’s office or
the Police Department the facts establishing such reasonable necessity;
      (8)   When the minor is on the sidewalk of the place where such minor
resides, or on the sidewalk of the minor’s next-door neighbor who has not
communicated an objection to a state or local law enforcement officer;
      (9)   When attending an official school, religious, recreational, or
other organized activity supervised by adults and sponsored by the city, a
civic organization, or another similar entity that takes responsibility for the
minor, or going to or returning home from, without any detour or stop, an
official school, religious, recreational, or other organized activity
supervised by adults and sponsored by the city, a civic organization, or other
similar entity that takes responsibility for said minor;
      (10)   Exercising first amendment rights protected by the United States
Constitution, such as the free exercise of religion, freedom of speech, and the
right of assembly; or
      (11)   When authorized by permit issued by the County Judge/Executive or
the Mayor, as appropriate, in cases of reasonable necessity involving more
minors than may reasonably be dealt with on an individual basis (such as, city
or county festivals, fairs, expositions, or other organized celebrations or
memorials; school church, civic, or other recreational events of a special
nature). The County Judge/Executive or the Mayor, as the case may be, shall
publicly advertise any permit sufficiently in advance of the event or occasion,
through the news media, schools, or other appropriate agencies. The permit
shall define the activity, the scope of the use of the public place permitted,
and the period of time involved, not to extend more than one hour beyond the
time for termination of the activity, and the reason why the regulation (or
permit) is reasonably necessary. A copy of the permit shall be forwarded to the
appropriate law enforcement agency in advance of the date of the activity or
event in question.
   (D)   Enforcement.
      (1)   Before proceeding with any enforcement action under this section, a
law enforcement officer, upon finding any minor in or upon a public place,
during a time period not authorized herein, may stop and question such minor
and request such information as his or her name, address, and the name and
address of his or her parent.
      (2)   If the law enforcement officer determines or has reasonable cause
to believe that the minor does not meet any of the permitted conditions
provided in division (C) above, the law enforcement officer shall issue a
citation or when necessary, cause a warrant summons to issue against said
minor’s parent(s) for violation of division (B)(2) above and may take into
custody as evidence of the offense, the minor and/or take the minor to his or
her home. The law enforcement officer shall, at the time of the issuance of the
citation or warrant summons, notify the offending parent(s) of the right to
file a “beyond control” petition in defense of any prosecution hereunder, as
set forth in division (E)(5) below.
   (E)   Beyond parental control petition and defense to prosecution.
      (1)   It shall constitute a complete defense to any prosecution under
division (B)(2) above if at the time of issuance of the citation or warrant
summons, the offending parent or spouse has an active beyond control petition
pending in the County District Court.
      (2)   Any parent issued a citation or served with a warrant summons by a
law enforcement officer for violation of division (B)(2) above, may, within 48
hours thereof, cause a beyond control petition to be initiated against the
minor. If the parent obtains a beyond control petition, in good faith, within
the 48-hour time period and the parent fully participates and cooperates in the
proceedings against said minor, the filing of the of the beyond control
petition shall constitute a complete defense to any prosecution for a violation
of division (B)(2) above.
(Prior Code, § 139.01) (Ord. 2011-11.03, passed 11-28-2011)
§ 139.02 FAILURE TO ASSIST AN OFFICER.
   No person, when legally summoned by the Mayor, any police officer, or any
other peace officer of the city, shall refuse to assist that officer in the
execution of his or her office, unless such person can give good and
satisfactory reason for such failure or refusal.
(Prior Code, § 139.02) (Ord. 340.1, passed 5-3-1954) Penalty, see §
139.99
§ 139.03 FALSELY REPORTING AN INCIDENT; FALSE ALARMS.
   (A) A person is guilty of falsely reporting an incident when he or she:
      (1)   Knowingly causes a false alarm of fire or other emergency to be
transmitted to or within any organization, whether official or volunteer, that
deals with emergencies involving danger to life or property;
      (2)   Reports to law enforcement authorities an offense or incident
within their official concern knowing that it did not occur;
      (3)   Furnishes law enforcement authorities with information allegedly
relating to an offense or incident within their official concern when he or she
knows he has no information relating to that offense or incident;
      (4)   Knowingly gives false information to any law enforcement officer
with intent to implicate another; or
      (5)   Initiates or circulates a report or warning of an alleged
occurrence or impending occurrence of a fire or other emergency under
circumstances likely to cause public inconvenience or alarm when he or she
knows the information reported, conveyed, or circulated is false or baseless.
   (B)   Falsely reporting an incident is a class A misdemeanor.
(KRS 519.040) (Prior Code, § 139.03) Penalty, see §
139.99
§ 139.04 DISCHARGE OF FIREARM OR OTHER DANGEROUS WEAPON.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to discharge any firearm or other dangerous
weapon within the city limits, including rifles, pistols, shotguns, C02 gun,
air gun, BB gun, pellet gun, or slingshot.
   (B)   This shall not apply to the following circumstances:
      (1)   In necessary self defense of person or property;
      (2)   A law enforcement officer in necessary performance of his or her
duty;
      (3)   For the purpose of target shooting or practice on a range operated
and supervised by a qualified police officer; or
      (4)   Any military exercise or parade.
(Prior Code, § 139.04) (Ord. 90.7, passed 10-8-1990) Penalty, see §
139.99
§ 139.05 PROHIBITION POSSESSION OR SALE OF AM CANNABINOIDS, CP CANNABINOIDS,
JWH CANNABINOIDS, OR HU CANNABINOIDS SYNTHETIC CANNABINOIDS AGNOSTIS.
   (A)   Findings and policy.
      (1)   The City Council finds that herbal incense products marketed in the
United States that provide a marijuana-like high when smoked have become
increasingly popular, particularly among teens and young adults and that these
products consist of plant material that has been laced with chemicals that have
not been approved by the FDA for human consumption.
      (2)   The City Council further finds that the state has moved to prohibit
the sale and possession of similar products, but the changing nature of the
products has resulted in the availability of herbal incense products that
exceed the state’s definition and statutes and therefore are not properly
regulated by the state. The City Council is aware that the side effects of the
unregulated herbal incense products pose a threat to the public health and
safety of the citizens of the city and it is in the best interests of the city
to regulate the sale and use of such products.
   (B)   Definitions.   For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      AM CANNABINOIDS. Any synthetic cannabinoids including but not limited to
AM-087; AM-25X; AM-281; AM-356; AM-374; AM-38X; AM-404; AM-411; AM-630; AM-G6X;
AM-678; AM-679; AM-694; AM-855; AM-88X; AM-883; AM-905; AM-906; AM-9X9; AM-926;
AM-938; AM-XXX6; AM-1172; AM-1220; AM-1221; AM-1235; AM-1241; AM-1248; AM-2201;
AM-2212; AM-22X3; AM-2232; AM-2233; AM-2102; AM-4030. The term shall not
include synthetic cannabinoids that require a prescription, are approved by the
United States Food and Drug Administration and are dispensed in accordance with
state and federal law.
      CP CANNABINOIDS. CP-47,497; (C6)-CP-47,497; (C7)-CP-47,497; (C8)-CP-
47,497; (C9)-CP-47,497; CP-50,556-1; CP-55,244; CP-55,940; CP-945,598. The term
shall not include synthetic cannabinoids that require a prescription, are
approved by the United States Food and Drug Administration and are dispensed in
accordance with state and federal law.
      HU CANNABINOIDS. Any synthetic cannabinoids including but not limited to
HU-2X0; HU-21X; HU-243; HU-308; HU-320; HU-33X; HU-336; HU-345. The term shall
not include synthetic cannabinoids that require a prescription, are approved by
the United States Food and Drug Administration and are dispensed in accordance
with state and federal law.
      JWH CANNABINOIDS. Any synthetic cannabinoids including but not limited to
JWH-007; JWH-015; JWH-018; JWH-019; JWH-O30; JWH-047; JWH-048; JWH-051; JWH-
057; JWH-073; JWH-081; JWH-098; JWH-116; JWH-120; JWH-122; JWH-133; JWH-139;
JWH-147; JWH-148; JWH-149; JWH-161; JWH-164; JWH-166; JWH-167; JWH-171; JWH-
175; JWH-176; JWH-181; JWH-182; JWH-184; JWH-185; JWH-192; JWH-193; JWH-194;
JWH-195; JWH-i96; JWH-197; JWH-198; JWH-199; JWH-200; JWH-203; JWH-205; JWH-
210; JWH-213; JWH-229; JWH-234; JWH-249; JWH-250; JWH-251; JWH-253; JWH-258;
JWH-300; JWH-302; JWH-307; JWH-336; JWH-350; JWH-359; JWH-387; JWH-398; JWH-
424. The term shall not include synthetic cannabinoids that require a
prescription, are approved by the United States Food and Drug Administration
and are dispensed in accordance with state and federal law.
      PERSON. Any person, firm, group, association, organization, partnership,
business, trust, corporation, company, limited liability company, or any other
business entity. For the purposes of this section, the president, managers,
owners, shareholders, partners, members, or other persons in charge of the
business shall be responsible to require the business to comply with this
section and shall likewise be subject to the penalties imposed for violations
of this section by the business entity.
      POSSESSION. To have actual physical POSSESSION or otherwise to exercise
actual dominion or control over a tangible object.
      TRAFFIC. To manufacture, distribute, dispense, sell, transfer, or possess
with intent to manufacture, distribute, dispense, or sell a controlled
substance.
      TRANSFER. To dispose of a controlled substance to another person without
consideration and not in furtherance of commercial distribution.
   (C)   Possession of AM cannabinoids, CP cannabinoids, JWH cannabinoids, or
HU cannabinoids. A person is guilty of possession of AM cannabinoids, CP
cannabinoids, JWH cannabinoids, or HU cannabinoids when he or she knowingly and
unlawfully possesses AM cannabinoids, CP cannabinoids, JWH cannabinoids, or HU
cannabinoids.
   (D)   Trafficking in AM cannabinoids, CP cannabinoids, JWH cannabinoids, or
HU cannabinoids. A person is guilty of trafficking in AM cannabinoids, CP
cannabinoids, JWH cannabinoids, or HU cannabinoids when he or she knowingly and
unlawfully traffics in AM cannabinoids, CP cannabinoids, JWH cannabinoids, or
HU cannabinoids.
   (E)   Applicability of state law. If current or future state law prohibits
any substance(s) contained in this section, the state law shall be applied
instead of this section for both prosecution and penalty.
(Ord. 2012-02.01, passed 2-29-2012) Penalty, see §
139.99
§ 139.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any parent found to be in violation of §
139.01(B)(2), for whom there is no available defense to prosecution, shall be
guilty of a criminal violation subject to a fine not to exceed $250 for each
such offense.
   (C)   Any person violating the provisions of §
139.04 shall be fined not less than $10 and not more than $100 or imprisoned
for not more than 30 days, or both, for each offense. In the case of minors who
violate §
139.04, the parents or legal guardian of said minor shall be liable for
satisfaction of said property.
   (D)   (1)   Any person who violates the provision of §
139.05 concerning possession of AM cannabinoids, CP cannabinoids, JWH
cannabinoids, or HU cannabinoids shall be guilty of a Class B misdemeanor and
upon conviction shall be punished by a fine not to exceed $250 and jail time
not to exceed 90 days.
      (2)   Any person who violates the provision of §
139.05 concerning trafficking in AM cannabinoids, CP cannabinoids, JWH
cannabinoids, or HU cannabinoids shall be guilty of a Class A misdemeanor and
upon conviction shall be punished by a fine not to exceed $500 and jail time
not to exceed 12 months.
      (3)   Each day of such violation shall constitute a separate offense and
no additional notice other than notice of the original offense shall be
required to convict a person for multiple violations resulting from a
continuation of such offense.
(Prior Code, §§ 139.01, 139.04) (Ord. 90.7, passed 10-8-1990; (Ord. 2011-11.03,
passed 11-28-2011; Ord. 2012-02.01, passed 2-29-2012)
CHAPTER 140: GENERAL PENALTY FOR TITLE XIII
Editor’s note:
   This chapter is included for informational purposes only. The provisions of
this chapter are specifically not incorporated by reference.
Section
   
140.01   Fines for misdemeanors and violations
   
140.02   Sentence of imprisonment for misdemeanor
   
140.03   Fines for felonies
   
140.04   Sentence of imprisonment for felony
§ 140.01 FINES FOR MISDEMEANORS AND VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   Fines and imprisonment for misdemeanors shall not be mutually
exclusive. In any case where imprisonment is authorized, a fine may be levied
in addition to the imprisonment or a fine may be levied as an alternative to
imprisonment. Similarly, a fine may be levied in lieu of imprisonment. Whether
or not the fine is to be levied as the sole penalty or as an additional or
alternative penalty shall be in the discretion of the judge or jury as the case
may be. If the trial is by jury, then the jury shall have the discretion. This
rule shall apply in all cases where a fine is not the exclusive penalty
authorized by law.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided for an offense defined outside this
title, a person who has been convicted of any offense other than a felony may
be sentenced to pay a fine in an amount not to exceed:
      (1)   For a Class A misdemeanor, $500;
      (2)   For a Class B misdemeanor, $250; or
      (3)   For a violation, $250.
   (C)   This section does not apply to a corporation.
(KRS 534.040) (Prior Code, § 140.01)
§ 140.02 SENTENCE OF IMPRISONMENT FOR MISDEMEANOR.
   A sentence of imprisonment for a misdemeanor shall be a definite term and
shall be fixed within the following maximum limitations:
   (A)   For a Class A misdemeanor, the term shall not exceed 12 months; and
   (B)   For a Class B misdemeanor, the term shall not exceed 90 days.
(KRS 532.090) (Prior Code, § 140.02)
§ 140.03 FINES FOR FELONIES.
   (A)   Except as otherwise provided for an offense defined outside this
title, a person who has been convicted of any felony and granted a sentence of
probation or conditional discharge may be sentenced to pay a fine in an amount
not to exceed $10,000 or double his or her gain from commission of the offense,
whichever is the greater.
   (B) In determining the amount and method of paying a fine for commission of
a felony, the court shall consider, among others, the following factors:
      (1)   The defendant’s ability to pay the amount of the fine;
      (2)   The hardship likely to be imposed on the defendant’s dependents by
the amount of the fine and the time and method of paying it;
      (3)   The impact the amount of the fine will have on the defendant’s
ability to make reparation or restitution to the victim; and
      (4)   The amount of the defendant’s gain, if any, derived from the
commission of the offense.
   (C)   When a defendant is convicted of two or more felonies committed
through a single act and is sentenced to fines pursuant to division (A) above,
the aggregate amount of such fines shall not exceed $10,000 or double the
amount of the defendant’s gain from commission of the offenses, whichever is
the greater.
   (D)   This section does not apply to a corporation.
(KRS 534.030) (Prior Code, § 140.03)
§ 140.04 SENTENCE OF IMPRISONMENT FOR FELONY.
   (A)   A sentence of imprisonment for a felony shall be an indeterminate
sentence, the maximum of which shall be fixed within the limits provided by
division (B) below, and subject to modification by the trial judge pursuant to
KRS 532.070.
   (B)   The authorized maximum terms of imprisonment for felonies are:
      (1)   For a Class A felony, not less than 20 years nor more than 50 years
or life imprisonment;
      (2)   For a Class B felony, not less than ten years nor more than 20
years;
      (3)   For a Class C felony, not less than five years nor more than ten
years; and
      (4)   For a Class D felony, not less than one year nor more than five
years.
   (C)   For any felony specified in KRS Chapter 510, KRS 530.020, 530.064, or
531.310,statutory the sentence shall include an additional three-year period of
conditional discharge which shall be added to the maximum sentence rendered for
the offense. During this period of conditional discharge, if a defendant
violates the provisions of conditional discharge, the defendant may be
reincarcerated for:
      (1)   The remaining period of his or her initial sentence, if any is
remaining; and
      (2)   The entire period of conditional discharge, or if the initial
sentence has been served, for the remaining period of conditional discharge.
   (D)   The actual time of release within the maximum established by division
(A) above, or as modified pursuant to KRS 532.070, shall be determined under
procedures established elsewhere by law.
(KRS 532.060) (Prior Code, § 140.04)
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   BUILDING REGULATIONS
      
151.   UNFIT DWELLINGS
      
152.   FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
      
153.   ZONING CODE
      
154.   TRAILER PARKS
      
155.   HISTORIC PRESERVATION DISTRICT
CHAPTER 150: BUILDING REGULATIONS
Section
   
150.01   Adoption of Kentucky Building Code; Standards of Safety
   
150.02   Enforcement of codes
   
150.03   Appeals
   
150.04   Building permits
 
   
150.99   Penalty
§ 150.01 ADOPTION OF KENTUCKY BUILDING CODE; STANDARDS OF SAFETY.
   The Kentucky Building Code, as contained in KAR Title 815, Chapter 7; the
Kentucky Plumbing Administrative Regulations; and the Kentucky Standards of
Safety, as contained in KAR Title 815, Chapter 10, together with any
amendments, are hereby adopted by reference as if fully set forth in this code
of ordinances. Copies of the above codes and any amendments thereto shall be
placed on file in the office of the City Clerk-Treasurer where they shall be
available for public inspection during normal business hours.
(Prior Code, § 150.01) (Ord. 2021-150, passed - -) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.02 ENFORCEMENT OF CODES.
   (A)   The County Building Inspector is charged with enforcement of the
provisions of the State Building Code adopted in §
150.01 of this chapter.
   (B)   The county plumbing official is charged with enforcement of the
provisions of the State Plumbing Code.
   (C)   The Chief of the Volunteer Fire Department is hereby charged with
enforcement of the provisions of the State Standards of Safety adopted by
reference in §
150.01 of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 150.02) (Ord. 2021-150, passed - -)
§ 150.03 APPEALS.
   Appeals from decisions made by the County Building Inspector under this
chapter may be taken to the State Department of Housing, Buildings, and
Construction unless and/or until a local board of housing appeals, as set forth
in KRS Chapter 198B, is established to hear such appeals.
(Prior Code, § 150.03) (Ord. 2021-150, passed - -)
Statutory reference:
   Appeals procedure, see KRS 198B.070
§ 150.04 BUILDING PERMITS.
   (A)   It is the intent, purpose, and scope of this section to promote and
protect the general welfare of the city by empowering it to regulate the
erection, construction, enlargement, alteration, moving, or demolishing of a
building or structure by first requiring a separate building permit to be
obtained for each such activity from the City Clerk-Treasurer. This includes
the requirement for application for a permit of all types of work outside the
scope and perimeter of any existing structure and shall also include pre-fab
storage building, in addition to tiny homes as either a primary residence or an
accessory dwelling unit.
   (B)   This section shall be strictly construed and may not be extended by
implication except where the intention of the City Council prevails.
   (C)   The City Clerk-Treasurer is hereby empowered and authorized to issue
building permits pursuant to the recommendations of the City Planning and
Zoning Commission, which shall review all applications for such permits. Any
violations of this section shall be reported in writing to the Mayor for
appropriate action.
   (D)   Building permit fees shall be based on the following schedule.
    Fee
                                          Fee
New residence                          $0.03 per square foot, $45 minimum
                                       $20 flat fee in advance, then a fee
Addition                               after construction is completed based on
                                       the amount of valued added
   $1 - $10,000 value added         $10
   $10,000 - $25,000 value added    $25
   $25,000 - $49,999 valued added   $40
   $50,000+ valued added            $50
Accessory structure                    $0.03 per square foot, $15 minimum
New commercial/industrial construction $0.02 per square foot, $45 minimum, $300
                                       maximum
 
   (E)   The procedure for obtaining a building permit shall be as follows.
      (1)   In applying for a building permit to the City Clerk-Treasurer, the
applicant shall submit a plan along with the application. The information to be
contained in the plan shall be sufficient to meet the needs of the Planning and
Zoning Commission in its review.
      (2)   A building permit shall become void six months from the date of
issuance unless substantial progress has been made by that time on the
construction or alteration authorized therein.
      (3)   The City Clerk-Treasurer shall maintain a permanent file of all
applications and permits issues.
(Prior Code, § 150.04) (Ord. passed 10- -1986; Ord. 2021-150, passed - -
) Penalty see §
150.99
§ 150.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who violates any provision of the state codes adopted in §
150.01 shall be subject as follows.
      (1)   Violators of the State Building Code shall, upon conviction, be
subject to a fine of not less than $10 nor more than $1,000 for each offense.
(KRS 198B.990(1))
      (2)   Violators of the State Standards of Safety shall, upon conviction,
be subject to a fine of not less than $25 nor more than $1,000, imprisonment
for not more than 60 days, or both, for each offense.
(KRS 227.990(1))
      (3)   Violators of the State Plumbing Code shall, upon conviction, be
subject to a fine of not less than $10 nor more than $100, imprisonment for not
more than 90 days, or both, for each offense.
(KRS 318.990)
   (B)   Whoever violates the requirements of §
150.04 shall be subject to the penalty provisions set forth in §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 150.99) (Ord. 2021-150, passed - -)
CHAPTER 151: UNFIT DWELLINGS
Section
General Provisions
   
151.01   Buildings unfit for habitation
Minimum Standards
   
151.15   Compliance
   
151.16   Sanitary facilities required; location
   
151.17   Hot and cold water supply
   
151.18   Water heating facilities
   
151.19   Heating facilities
   
151.20   Cooking and heating equipment
   
151.21   Garbage disposal facilities
   
151.22   Fire protection
   
151.23   Light and ventilation
   
151.24   Electrical systems
   
151.25   Exterior and interior of structures
   
151.26   Minimum dwelling space requirements
   
151.27   Sanitation requirements
   
151.28   Rooming houses
Enforcement and Administration
   
151.40   State Fire Marshal to enforce
   
151.41   Complaint procedure
 
   
151.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 151.01 BUILDINGS UNFIT FOR HABITATION.
   (A)   Fitness for human habitation, occupancy, or use shall be determined in
accordance with the criteria established in the most current edition of the
Kentucky Building Code, as adopted by reference in §
150.01 in this title. Any building or structure which fails to meet such
criteria or has any defects set forth therein shall be deemed unfit for human
habitation, occupancy, or use.
   (B)   All buildings or structures within the city which are found to be
dangerous or injurious to the health, safety, and morals of the occupants of
the structure, the occupants of neighboring structures, or other residents of
the city shall be deemed unfit for human habitation, occupancy, or use.
(Prior Code, § 151.01)
MINIMUM STANDARDS
§ 151.15 COMPLIANCE.
   No person shall occupy as owner-occupant or let or sublet to another for
occupancy any dwelling or dwelling unit designed or intended to be used for the
purpose of living, sleeping, cooking, or eating therein, nor shall any vacant
dwelling building be permitted to exist which does not comply with the
following requirements in this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 151.15) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.16 SANITARY FACILITIES REQUIRED; LOCATION.
   (A)   Generally. Every dwelling unit shall contain not less than a kitchen
sink, lavatory, tub or shower, and a water closet in good working condition and
properly connected to an approved water and sewer system. Every plumbing
fixture and water and waste pipe shall be properly installed and maintained in
good sanitary working condition, free from defects, leaks, and obstructions.
   (B)   Location of sanitary facilities.
      (1)   All required plumbing fixtures shall be located within the dwelling
unit and be accessible to the occupants of same. The water closet, tub, or
shower and lavatory shall be located in a room affording privacy to the user
and the room shall be a minimum floor space of 30 square feet, with no
dimension less than four feet.
      (2)   Bathrooms shall be accessible from habitable rooms, hallways,
corridors, or other protected or enclosed areas, not including kitchens or
other food preparation areas.
(Prior Code, § 151.16) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.17 HOT AND COLD WATER SUPPLY.
   Every dwelling unit shall have connected to the kitchen sink, lavatory, and
tub or shower an adequate supply of both cold water and hot water. All water
shall be supplied through an approved distribution system connected to a
potable water supply.
(Prior Code, § 151.17) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.18 WATER HEATING FACILITIES.
   Every dwelling shall have water heating facilities which are properly
installed and maintained in a safe and good working condition and are capable
of heating water to such a temperature as to permit an adequate amount of water
to be drawn at every required kitchen sink, lavatory basin, bathtub, or shower
at a temperature of not less than 120°F. Minimum storage capacity of the water
heater shall be 30 gallons. Those water heating facilities shall be capable of
meeting the requirements of this section when the dwelling or dwelling unit
heating facilities required under the provisions of this chapter are not in
operation.
(Prior Code, § 151.18) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.19 HEATING FACILITIES.
   (A)   Every dwelling unit shall have heating facilities which are properly
installed, are maintained in safe and good working conditions, and are capable
of safely and adequately heating all habitable rooms and bathrooms in every
dwelling unit located therein to a temperature of at least 70°F at a distance
three feet above floor level, under ordinary minimum winter conditions.
   (B)   Unvented fuel burning heaters shall be prohibited.
(Prior Code, § 151.19) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.20 COOKING AND HEATING EQUIPMENT.
   All cooking and heating equipment and facilities shall be installed in
accordance with the Building, Mechanical, Gas, or Electrical Code and shall be
maintained in a safe and good working condition. Portable cooking equipment
employing flame is prohibited.
(Prior Code, § 151.20) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.21 GARBAGE DISPOSAL FACILITIES.
   Every dwelling unit shall have adequate garbage disposal facilities or
garbage storage containers, the type and location of which facilities or
containers shall meet the requirements of Chapter 51 of this code of
ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 151.21) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.22 FIRE PROTECTION.
   A person shall not occupy as owner-occupant or shall let to another for
occupancy, any building or structure which does not comply with the applicable
provisions of §
150.01 of this title.
(Prior Code, § 151.22) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.23 LIGHT AND VENTILATION.
   (A)   Size. Every habitable room shall have at least one window or skylight
facing directly to the outdoors. The minimum total window area, measured
between stops, for every habitable room shall be 8% of the floor area of that
room. Whenever walls or other portions of structures face a window of any room
and those light-obstruction structures are located at least three feet from the
window and extend to a level above that of the ceiling of the room, such a
window shall not be deemed to face directly to the outdoors and shall not be
included as contributing to the required minimum total window area. Whenever
the only window in a room is a skylight-type window in the top of that room,
the total window area of the skylight shall equal at least 15% of the total
floor area of the room.
   (B)   Habitable rooms.
      (1)   Every habitable room shall have at least one window or skylight
which can be easily opened, or any other device as will adequately ventilate
the room. The total of openable window area in every habitable room shall equal
at least 45% of the minimum window area size or minimum skylight-type window
size, as required, or shall have other approved, equivalent ventilation.
      (2)   Year-round mechanically ventilating conditioned air systems may be
substituted for windows, as required herein, in rooms other than rooms used for
sleeping purposes. Window-type air conditioning units are not included in this
exception.
   (C)   Bathroom. Every bathroom shall comply with the light and ventilation
requirements for habitable rooms except that no window or skylight shall be
required in adequately ventilated bathrooms equipped with an approved
ventilating system.
   (D)   Electric lights and outlets required. Where there is electric service
available to the building structure, every habitable room or space shall
contain at least two separate and remote convenience outlets and bedrooms shall
have, in addition, at least one wall switch controlled ceiling or wall-type
light fixture. In kitchens, three separate and remote convenience outlets shall
be provided, and a wall or ceiling type light fixture controlled by a wall
switch shall be required. Every hall, water closet compartment, bathroom,
laundry room, or furnace room shall contain at least one electric fixture. In
bathrooms, the electric light fixture shall be controlled by a wall switch. In
addition to the electric light fixture in every bathroom and laundry room,
there shall be provided at least one convenience outlet. Every outlet and
fixture shall be properly installed, shall be maintained in good and safe
working condition, and shall be connected to the source of electric power in a
safe manner.
   (E)   Light in public halls and stairways. Every common hall and inside
stairway in every building, other than one-family dwellings, shall be
adequately lighted at all times with an illumination of at least one footcandle
intensity at the floor in the darkest portion of the normally traveled stairs
and passageways.
(Prior Code, § 151.23) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.24 ELECTRICAL SYSTEMS.
   Every electrical outlet and fixture required by this chapter shall be
installed, maintained, and connected to a source of electric power in
accordance with the applicable provisions of §
150.01 of this title.
(Prior Code, § 151.24) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.25 EXTERIOR AND INTERIOR OF STRUCTURES.
   (A)   Foundation. The building foundation system shall be maintained in a
safe manner and capable of supporting the load which normal use may cause to be
placed thereon.
   (B)   Exterior walls. Every exterior wall shall be free of holes, breaks,
loose, or rotting boards or timbers, and any other conditions which might admit
rain or dampness to the interior portions of the walls or to the occupied
spaces of the building. All accessory buildings, except prefabricated
buildings, shall be covered with vinyl, plastic, aluminum, weatherboarding, or
some type of approved exterior finishing which will conform, at least, to the
standards of the other buildings in the area. All siding material shall be kept
in good repair.
   (C)   Roofs. Roofs shall be structurally sound and maintained in a safe
manner and have no defects which might admit rain or cause dampness in the
walls or interior portion of the building.
   (D)   Means of egress. Every dwelling unit shall have safe, unobstructed
means of egress with minimum ceiling height of seven feet leading to a safe and
open space at ground level. Stairs shall have a minimum headroom of six feet
eight inches.
   (E)   Stairs, porches, and appurtenances. Every inside and outside stair,
porch, and any appurtenance thereto shall be safe to use and capable of
supporting the load that normal use may cause to be placed thereon; and shall
be kept in sound condition and good repair.
   (F)   Protective railings. Protective railings shall be required on any
unenclosed structure over 30 inches from the ground level or on any steps
containing four risers or more.
   (G)   Windows and doors. Every window, exterior door, and basement or cellar
door and hatchway shall be substantially weathertight, watertight, and rodent-
proof; and shall be kept in sound working condition and good repair.
   (H)   Windows to be glazed. Every window sash shall be fully supplied with
glass window panes or an approved substitute which are without open cracks or
holes.
   (I)   Window sash. Window sash shall be properly fitted and weathertight
within the window frame.
   (J)   Windows to be openable. Every window required for light and
ventilation for habitable rooms shall be capable of being easily opened and
secured in position by window hardware.
   (K)   Hardware. Every exterior door shall be provided with proper hardware
and maintained in good condition.
   (L)   Door frames. Every exterior door shall fit reasonably well within its
frame so as to substantially exclude rain and wind from entering the dwelling
building.
   (M)   Screens. Every door opening directly from a dwelling unit to outdoor
space shall have screen doors with a self-closing device; and every window or
other device with opening to outdoor space, used or intended to be used for
ventilation, shall likewise have screens.
   (N)   Protective treatment. All exterior wood surface, other than decay-
resistant woods, shall be protected from the elements and decay by painting or
other protective covering or treatment.
   (O)   Accessory structures. Garages, storage buildings, and other accessory
structures shall be maintained and kept in good repair and sound structural
condition.
   (P)   Interior floor, walls, and ceilings.
      (1)   Every floor, interior wall, and ceiling shall be substantially
rodent-proof; shall be kept in sound condition and good repair; and shall be
safe to use and capable of supporting the load which normal use may cause to be
placed thereon.
      (2)   Every toilet, bathroom, and kitchen floor surface shall be
constructed and maintained so as to be substantially impervious to water and so
as to permit the floor to be easily kept in a clean and sanitary condition.
   (Q)   Structural supports. Every structural element of the dwelling shall be
maintained structurally sound and show no evidence of deterioration which would
render them incapable of carrying loads which normal use may cause to be placed
thereon.
   (R)   Protective railings for interior stairs. Interior stairs and
stairwells more than four risers high shall have handrails located in
accordance with the requirements of the State Building Code adopted by
reference in §
150.01 of this title. Handrails or protective railings shall be capable of
bearing normally imposed loads and be maintained in good condition.
(Prior Code, § 151.25) (Ord. passed 7-12-1993) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.26 MINIMUM DWELLING SPACE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Required space in dwelling unit. Every dwelling unit shall contain at
least 150 square feet of floor space for the first occupant thereof and at
least 100 additional square feet of floor area per additional occupant. The
floor area shall be calculated on the basis of the total area of all habitable
rooms.
   (B)   Required space in sleeping rooms. In every dwelling unit of two or
more rooms, every room occupied for sleeping purposes by one occupant shall
contain at least 70 square feet of floor space, and every room occupied for
sleeping purposes by more than one occupant shall contain at least 50 square
feet of floor space for each occupant thereof.
   (C)   Minimum ceiling height.
      (1)   Habitable (space) rooms other than kitchens, storage rooms, and
laundry rooms shall have a ceiling height of not less than seven feet.
Hallways, corridors, bathrooms, water closet rooms, and kitchens shall have a
ceiling height of not less than seven feet measured to the lowest projection
from the ceiling.
      (2)   If any room in a building has a sloping ceiling, the prescribed
ceiling height for the room is required in only one-half the area thereof. No
portion of the room measuring less than five feet from the finished floor to
the finished ceiling shall be included in any computation of the minimum area
thereof.
   (D)   Occupancy of dwelling unit below grade. No basement or cellar space
shall be used as a habitable room or dwelling unit unless:
      (1)   The floor and walls are impervious to leakage of underground and
surface runoff water and are insulated against dampness;
      (2)   The total of window area in each room is equal to at least the
minimum window area size as required in §
151.23(A) of this subchapter;
      (3)   The required minimum window area is located entirely above the
grade of the ground adjoining that window area; and
      (4)   The total of openable window area in each room is equal to at least
the minimum as required under §
151.23(B) of this subchapter, except where there is supplied some other device
affording adequate ventilation.
(Prior Code, § 151.26) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.27 SANITATION REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Sanitation. Every owner of a multiple dwelling shall be responsible
for maintaining in a clean and sanitary condition the shared or common areas of
the dwelling and premises thereof.
   (B)   Cleanliness. Every tenant of a dwelling unit shall keep in a clean and
sanitary condition that part of the dwelling, dwelling unit, and premises
thereof which he or she occupies or which is provided for his or her particular
use.
   (C)   Garbage disposal. Every tenant of a dwelling or dwelling unit shall
dispose of all his or her garbage and any other organic waste which might
provide food for rodents and all rubbish in a clean and sanitary manner by
placing it in the garbage disposal facilities or garbage or rubbish storage
containers (see
Chapter 51 of this code of ordinances).
   (D)   Care of premises. It shall be unlawful for the owner or occupant of a
residential building, structure, or property to utilize the premises of that
residential property for the open storage of any abandoned motor vehicle, ice
box, refrigerator, stove, glass, building material, building rubbish, or
similar items. It shall be the duty and responsibility of every owner or
occupant to keep the premises of the residential property clean and to remove
from the premises all abandoned items as listed above, including but not
limited to weeds, dead trees, trash, garbage, and the like, as set forth more
particularly in
Chapter 92 of this code of ordinances.
   (E)   Extermination. Every occupant of a single dwelling building and every
owner of a building containing two or more dwelling units shall be responsible
for the extermination of any insects, rodents, or other pests within the
building or premises.
   (F)   Use and operation of supplied plumbing fixtures. Every tenant of a
dwelling unit shall keep all plumbing fixtures therein in a clean and sanitary
condition and shall be responsible for the exercise of reasonable care in the
proper use and operation thereof.
(Prior Code, § 151.27) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.28 ROOMING HOUSES.
   No person shall operate a rooming house, or shall occupy or let to another
for occupancy any rooming unit in any rooming house, except in compliance with
the provision of every section of this chapter except the provisions of §§
151.15 and
151.26 of this subchapter.
   (A)   License required. No person shall operate a rooming house unless he or
she holds a valid rooming house license.
   (B)   Water closet, lavatory, and bath facilities.
      (1)   At least one flush water closet, lavatory basin, and bathtub or
shower, properly connected to a water and sewer system and in good working
condition, shall be supplied for each four rooms within a rooming house
wherever those facilities are shared.
      (2)   All facilities shall be located on the floor they serve within the
dwelling so as to be reasonably accessible from a common hall or passageway to
all persons sharing those facilities.
   (C)   Water heater required. Every lavatory basin and bathtub or shower
shall be supplied with hot water at all times.
   (D)   Minimum floor area for sleeping purposes. Every room occupied for
sleeping purposes by one person shall contain at least 70 square feet of floor
space and every room occupied for sleeping purposes by more than one person
shall contain at least 50 square feet of floor space for each occupant thereof.
   (E)   Exit requirement. Every rooming unit shall have safe, unobstructed
means of egress leading to safe and open space at ground level, as required by
the State Building Code as adopted by reference in §
150.01 of this code of ordinances.
   (F)   Sanitary conditions. The operator of every rooming house shall be
responsible for the sanitary maintenance of all walls, floors, and ceilings,
and for maintenance of a sanitary condition in every other part of the rooming
house; and he or she shall be further responsible for the sanitary maintenance
of the entire premises where the entire structure or building is leased or
occupied by the operator.
(Prior Code, § 151.28) Penalty, see §
151.99
ENFORCEMENT AND ADMINISTRATION
§ 151.40 STATE FIRE MARSHAL TO ENFORCE.
   The State Fire Marshal shall have the authority to exercise any powers as
are necessary or convenient to carry out and effectuate the purposes and
provisions of this chapter, including the following powers in addition to
others herein granted:
   (A)   To investigate the structural conditions in the city in order to
determine which structures therein are unfit for human habitation, occupancy,
or use; and
   (B)   To delegate any of his or her functions and powers under this chapter
to those officers and agents as he or she designates.
(Prior Code, § 151.40)
§ 151.41 COMPLAINT PROCEDURE.
   (A)   The following complaint procedure shall be followed:
      (1)   Whenever a petition is filed with the State Fire Marshal by a
public authority or by at least three residents of the city charging that any
structure is unfit for human habitation, occupancy, or use, or whenever it
appears to the State Fire Marshal that any structure is unfit for human
habitation, occupancy, or use, he or she shall, if his or her preliminary
investigation discloses a basis for those allegations, issue and cause to be
served upon the owner of and parties in interest in that structure a complaint
stating the allegations in that request; and
      (2)   The complaint shall state that a hearing will be held before the
State Fire Marshal or his or her designated agent at a place fixed in the
serving of the complaint, that the owner and parties in interest may file an
answer to the complaint and appear in person, or otherwise, and give testimony
at the time and place stated in the complaint and that the Kentucky Rules of
Procedure shall not be controlling to the hearing.
   (B)   If, after the notice and hearing, the State Fire Marshal determines
that the structure under consideration is unfit for human habitation,
occupancy, or use, according to the standards herein adopted, he or she shall
state in writing these findings of fact in support of the determination and
shall issue and cause to be served upon the owner thereof an order requiring
the owner, within the time specified, to repair, alter, or improved the
structure to render it fit for human habitation, occupancy, or use, or, at the
option of the owner, to vacate, demolish, and remove the structure.
      (1)   If the owner fails to comply with an order to repair, alter, or
improve or, at the option of the owner, to vacate and close the structure, the
State Fire Marshal may cause the structure to be repaired, altered, or
improved, or to be vacated and closed. The State Fire Marshal may cause to be
posted on the main entrance of any structure so closed, a placard with the
following words: “This building is unfit for human habitation, occupancy, or
use; the use or occupation of this building for human habitation, occupancy, or
use, is prohibited and unlawful.”
      (2)   If the owner fails to comply with an order to remove or demolish
the structure the State Fire Marshal may cause that structure to be removed or
demolished.
      (3)   The amount of the cost of repairs, alterations, or improvements, or
vacating and closing, or removal or demolition shall be a lien upon the real
property upon which cost was incurred. If the structure is removed or
demolished by the State Fire Marshal, he or she shall sell the materials of the
structure and shall credit the proceeds of the sale against the cost of the
removal or demolition and any balance remaining shall be deposited in the
circuit court by the State Fire Marshal, shall be secured in a manner as may be
directed by the court, and shall be disbursed by the court to the persons found
to be entitled thereto by final order or decree to the court.
      (4)   When the State Fire Marshal has condemned as unfit for human
habitation, occupancy, or use, any structure in accordance with this chapter
and as ordered same to be vacated, the State Fire Marshal may, upon ten days’
notice to the occupants, apply to the appropriate district court for an order
of eviction directing the Sheriff to remove the occupants and their belongings
from the structure.
      (5)   Complaints or orders issued by the State Fire Marshal pursuant to
this chapter shall be served upon persons either personally or by certified
mail, however, if the whereabouts of the person is unknown and cannot be
ascertained in the exercise of reasonable diligence, or the person is so
conducting himself or herself as to avoid service personally or by certified
mail, and the State Fire Marshal make an affidavit to that effect, service of
the complaint or order shall be by newspaper publication for three successive
weeks pursuant to KRS Chapter 424. A copy of the complaint or order shall be
posted in a conspicuous place on premises affected by the complaint or order,
and shall be recorded in the office of the County Clerk wherein the structure
is located.
      (6)   Any person affected by an order issued by the State Fire Marshal,
may, within 30 days after the posting and service of the order, appeal to City
Council. Hearings shall be had by the City Council on that petition within 20
days, or as soon thereafter as possible. In all proceedings the findings of the
State Fire Marshal as to facts, if supported by evidence, shall be conclusive.
(Prior Code, § 151.41)
§ 151.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   The owner of any structure determined to be unfit under this chapter
who shall fail to comply with any notice or order to repair, vacate, or
demolish a structure given by the Fire Chief under this chapter shall be guilty
of a violation and upon conviction shall be fined as set forth in §
150.99(A) of this title.
   (B)   The occupant or lessee in possession who fails to comply with any
notice to vacate and who fails to repair a building in accordance with any
notice given as provided for in this chapter shall be guilty of a violation and
upon conviction shall be fined as set forth in §
150.99(A) of this title.
   (C)   Every day a failure to comply continues, it shall be considered a
separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 151.99)
CHAPTER 152: FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
Section
   
152.01   Adoption by reference
§ 152.01 ADOPTION BY REFERENCE.
   The city has adopted “an ordinance designed to prevent or minimize public
and private losses due to flood damage” which is hereby incorporated by
reference as if fully set out herein. The full text of this ordinance is on
file on the office of the City Clerk-Treasurer.
(Prior Code, § 152.01) (Ord. 91-12.3, passed 12-11-1991)
CHAPTER 153: ZONING CODE
Section
General Provisions
   
153.001   Short title
   
153.002   Statutory authority
   
153.003   Purpose
   
153.004   Definitions
Zoning Districts
   
153.015   District boundary interpretation
   
153.016   General requirements for all districts
   
153.017   AGRI - Agriculture
   
153.018   R-1 - Single-Family Residential
   
153.019   R-2 - Single- and Two-Family Residential
   
153.020   R-3 - Multi-Family Residential
   
153.021   C-1 - Commercial
   
153.022   C-2 - Highway Commercial
   
153.023   I-1 - Light Industry
   
153.024   I-2 - Heavy Industry
   
153.025   CONS - Conversation
Mobile Homes
   
153.040   Conditional use permits
   
153.041   Prohibited in R-1 Districts
   
153.042   Nonconforming use
   
153.043   Mobile home parks
Accessory Dwelling Units and Tiny Homes
   
153.055   Accessory dwelling units (ADU)
   
153.056   Tiny homes as primary dwelling units
   
153.057   Tiny home planned development unit
Parking Regulations
   
153.070   Residential districts
   
153.071   Commercial districts
   
153.072   Industrial districts
   
153.073   Conservation districts
Fences and Walls
   
153.085   Fence and wall regulations for all districts
Nonconforming Uses
   
153.100   Nonconforming use
   
153.101   Nonconforming structure
   
153.102   Nonconforming lot
Administration and Enforcement
   
153.115   Administrative Official
   
153.116   Planning and Zoning Commission
   
153.117   Board of Adjustments
   
153.118   Conditional use permits
   
153.119   Zoning permits
   
153.120   Building permits
   
153.121   Disclaimer of liability
Amendment Procedure
   
153.135   Proposal
   
153.136   Public hearing
   
153.137   Map amendments
 
   
153.999   Penalty
   
Appendix A:Table of Zoning Specifications
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 153.001 SHORT TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the City Zoning Code.
(Prior Code, § 153.01) (Ord. 920.2, passed 10-30-1980; Ord. 2021-153, passed -
-)
§ 153.002 STATUTORY AUTHORITY.
   Pursuant to the authority granted to cities and countries by KRS Chapter
100, the rules and regulations contained herein shall apply within the
corporate limits of this city.
(Prior Code, § 153.01) (Ord. 920.2, passed 10-30-1980; Ord. 2021-153, passed -
-)
§ 153.003 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of these regulations is to promote and protect the health,
safety, and general welfare of the citizens of the city, and to facilitate
orderly and harmonious development through the regulation of population and
land use intensity.
(Prior Code, § 153.03) (Ord. 920.2, passed 10-30-1980; Ord. 2021-153, passed -
-)
§ 153.004 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose if this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACCESSORY BUILDING. A detached building, the use of which is incidental to
that of the principal building on the same lot.
   ACCESSORY DWELLING UNIT. A residential living unit attached to or detached
and located in the rear yard area, constituting a separate, independent
housekeeping establishment for owner occupancy, or rental or lease on a weekly,
monthly, or longer basis, and physically separated from any other rooms or
dwelling units which may be in the same structure and meeting all other
requirements laid out in this code of ordinances.
   ACCESSORY USE. A use incidental to the use of the principal building. An
office for home occupations, as defined herein, shall be deemed an ACCESSORY
USE.
   ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICIAL. The chairperson of the Planning and Zoning
Commission.
   AGRICULTURAL OPERATION. The use of land for agricultural purposes in which a
minimum of five acres of land is used.
   ALLEY. Any public or private way used for public travel which is ten feet or
less in width and has not been dedicated as a city street.
   ALTERATION. Any change or addition to the supporting members or foundation
of a structure.
   APARTMENT BUILDING. A building arranged, designed, or intended to be
occupied by three or more families living independently of each other.
   BOARD. The Board of Adjustments of the City Planning and Zoning Commission.
   BUILDING. Any structure enclosed and isolated by exterior walls constructed
or used for residence, business, industry, or other public or private purposes,
or an accessory thereto, and including tents, lunch wagons, dining cars,
trailers, freestanding billboards and signs, and similar structures, whether
stationary or movable.
      (1)   BUILDING HEIGHT. The vertical distance from the average elevation
of the finished grade on at the front of the building to the highest point of
the building.
      (2)   BUILDING LINE. The line extending across a lot generally parallel
to the street on which the lot faces and between the street, and where no
building or portion of a building is allowed.
      (3)   BUILDING PERMIT. The permit required for the construction,
alteration, razing, or relocation of a building.
      (4)   BUILDING (PRINCIPAL). A building in which the principal use of the
lot on which the building is located and conducted.
   COMMISSION. The City Planning and Zoning Commission.
   CONDITIONAL USE. A use which is essential to or would promote the public
health, safety, or welfare in one or more zones, but which would impair the
integrity and character of the zone in which it is located or in adjoining
zones unless restrictions on location, size, extent, and character of
performance are imposed in addition to those imposed in the zoning regulation.
   CONDITIONAL USE PERMIT. Legal authorization to undertake a conditional use
issued by the administrative official pursuant to authorization by the Board of
Adjustments, and consisting of two parts:
      (1)   A statement of the factual determination by the Board of
Adjustments which justifies the issuance of the permit; and
      (2)   A statement of the specific conditions which must be met in order
for the use to be permitted.
   DWELLING (MULTIPLE-FAMILY). A building designed for or occupied by three or
more families living independently of each other.
   DWELLING (SINGLE-FAMILY). A detached building designed exclusively for
occupancy by one family.
   DWELLING (TWO-FAMILY). A building designed exclusively for occupancy by two
families living independently of each other.
   DWELLING UNIT. One room, or rooms connected together, constituting a
separate, independent housekeeping establishment for owner occupancy, or rental
or lease on a weekly, monthly, or longer basis, and physically separated from
any other rooms or dwelling units which may be in the same structure, and
meeting all other requirements laid out in this code of ordinances.
   FAMILY. One or more person occupying premises and living as a single
nonprofit housekeeping unit, but not including a group of persons living
together because of similar occupational status, such as in fraternities or
nursing homes. This shall not include a commune.
   FLOODPLAIN. The area adjoining the channel of a river, stream, watercourse,
lake, or body of water which has been or may be covered by floodwaters.
   FLOOD-PRONE AREA. All land subject to periodic inundation by the overflow of
a river, stream, watercourse, lake, or body of water.
   HOBBY ACTIVITY. An enterprise or mini-business carried on upon residential
premises which grosses no more than $5,000 per year.
   HOME OCCUPATION. The keeping of professional offices, studies, personal
service facilities, or rental sleeping rooms with a personal dwelling, provided
such activities are: incidental to the principal residential use; involve the
employment of no more than one person not residing in the dwelling; and occupy
no more than 25% of the total floor area of the dwelling. The selling of
merchandise is not a HOME OCCUPATION.
   JUNKYARD. Any place where two or more junked, wrecked, or nonoperative
automobiles, vehicles, machines, or other similar scrap or salvage material are
deposited, parked, placed, or otherwise located.
   LOT. A parcel of land under the ownership of one person which the recorded
deed describes separately from other lands of the owner and which has its
principal front frontage on a street or road.
      (1)   LOT CORNER. A lot abutting on two or more streets at their
intersections.
      (2)   LOT DEPTH. The horizontal distance between front and rear lot lines
measured along the median between the two side lot lines.
      (3)   LOT WIDTH. The horizontal distance between the side lot lines
measured at the right angles to the lot depth at a point midway between the
front and rear lot lines.
   MOBILE HOME. A movable living unit designed for a year-round occupancy
without motive power designed to be used for year-round human habitation. This
shall include double-wide MOBILE HOMES.
   MOBILE HOME PARK. Any parcel of land proposed, developed, or designed to be
used for the location, whether temporary or permanent, often or more mobile
homes.
   NONCONFORMING LOT. A lot of records existing at the time of the passage of
this code which does not conform to the width, depth, or area requirements of
this Zoning Code.
   NONCONFORMING USE OR STRUCTURE. An activity or a building, sign, structure,
or a portion thereof which lawfully existed before the adoption or amendment of
this Zoning Code, but which does not conform to all the regulations contained
in the Zoning Code which pertain to the zone in which it is located.
   SETBACK. The required distance between the lot line and the closest
permissible point of a conforming structure.
   SHOPPING CENTER. A complex of retail, wholesale, and/or professional uses
designed as an integral unit of development rather than as single units.
   STREET. Any public right-of-way which affords the primary means of access to
abutting property.
   STRUCTURE. Anything constructed or made, the use of which requires permanent
location in or on the ground or attachment to something having a permanent
location in or on the ground, including buildings and signs.
   TINY HOME. A dwelling unit with a minimum size of 200 square feet and a
maximum of 400 square feet, and that meets all other requirements laid out in
this code of ordinances.
   TINY HOME PLANNED DEVELOPMENT UNIT. Any parcel of land proposed, developed,
or designed to be used for the location, whether temporary or permanent, of
eight or more tiny homes, and that meets all other requirements laid out in
this code of ordinances.
   VARIANCE. A departure from dimensional terms of the Zoning Code pertaining
to the height, width, or location of structures, and the size of yards and open
spaces where such departure meets the requirements of KRS 100.241 through
100.247.
(Prior Code, § 153.04) (Ord. 920.2, passed 10-30-1980; Ord. 2021-153, passed -
-)
ZONING DISTRICTS
§ 153.015 DISTRICT BOUNDARY INTERPRETATION.
   (A)   Where a zoning district boundary follows an alley, street, railroad,
or stream or body of water, the centerline of such feature is the boundary of
the district.
   (B)   Where a zoning district boundary approximately follows a lot or
property line, the line is the boundary of the district.
   (C)   Where a zoning district boundary does not clearly follow any of the
features indicated in division (A) and (B) above, the exact location on the
ground shall be determined by measurement in accordance with the map scale.
Questions concerning the exact location of district boundary lines shall be
determined by the Planning and Zoning Commission.
   (D)   Where a lot is divided into two or more districts, the entire area may
be used in conformity with, and subject to the regulations established for the
district in which one half or more of the area of the new parcel is located.
(Prior Code, § 153.15) (Ord. 920.2, passed 10-30-1980; Ord. 2021-153, passed -
-)
§ 153.016 GENERAL REQUIREMENTS FOR ALL DISTRICTS.
   The following general requirements area applicable for all districts.
   (A)   No land shall be used and no structure shall be erected, altered,
moved, or used except in conformity with all the provisions of the chapter.
   (B)   No lot shall be reduced in such a manner that the total lot area,
yard, or open space shall be smaller than prescribed by this chapter.
   (C)   No part of a required yard or open surface for one structure shall be
included as part of the yard or open surface for another structure.
   (D)   Every building shall be erected on one lot. In no case shall there be
more than one principal building and its accessory building on one lot.
   (E)   No person, firm, or corporation shall sell, lease or attempt to sell
or lease any land or structure upon the representation, falsely made, that such
land or structure may be used in a manner or for a use prohibited by this
chapter.
   (F)   No permit, certification, document, or oral approval, the use of which
may be subject to the provision of this chapter, shall be issued until the
Planning and Zoning Commission has certified that the use to be made of the
permit, certification, document, or oral approval is in full compliance with
the provisions of this chapter.
   (G)   No structure shall be erected or altered until a building permit has
been issued by the administrative official. Applicants for a building permit
must provide proof of recorded deed prior to the issuance of the building
permit.
   (H)   Whenever any other restrictions or covenants impose a higher standard
than that indicated by any regulation of this chapter, such other restriction
or covenant shall govern.
   (I)   In R-1 Zones, no displays or changes in facade shall indicate from
exterior that the building is being utilized partly for a nonresidential use.
   (J)   All requirements of the Federal Flood Insurance Act, being 42 U.S.C.
§§ 4001 et seq., (see
Chapter 152 of this title) shall be met in the application for and the granting
of all building permits.
(Prior Code, § 153.15) (Ord. 920.2, passed 10-30-1980; Ord. 2021-153, passed -
-) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.017 AGRI - AGRICULTURE.
   (A)   Generally. This district is composed of certain lands used primarily
for agriculture operations and their necessary uses or any open space.
   (B)   Permitted uses. Permitted use are as follows:
      (1)   Single-family dwellings;
      (2)   Churches;
      (3)   Cemeteries;
      (4)   Undeveloped land of five acres or more;
      (5)   Schools;
      (6)   Public easements; and
      (7)   Hobby activities.
   (C)   Accessory uses. The following are permitted accessory uses:
      (1)   Agricultural structures; and
      (2)   Home occupations.
   (D)   Conditional uses. The following are permitted conditional uses:
      (1)   Golf courses;
      (2)   Sanitary landfills;
      (3)   Public recreational area (parks); and
      (4)   Other uses deemed compatible with the district by the Planning and
Zoning Commission and Board of Adjustments.
   (E)   Dimensional regulations. See
Appendix following this chapter.
   (F)   Parking regulations. See §
153.070 through
153.073 of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 153.17) (Ord. 920.2, passed 10-30-1980; Ord. 2021-153, passed -
-)
§ 153.018 R-1 - SINGLE FAMILY RESIDENTIAL.
   (A)   Description of District. This District is composed of single-family
low-density residential areas of the city, plus certain open areas where
similar residential development appears likely to occur.
   (B)   Permitted uses. Permitted use are as follows:
      (1)   Single-family dwellings;
      (2)   Churches;
      (3)   Cemeteries;
      (4)   Schools;
      (5)   Public easements; and
      (6)   Hobby activities.
   (C)   Accessory uses. The following are permitted accessory uses: two
accessory buildings.
   (D)   Conditional uses. The following are permitted conditional uses:
      (1)   Home occupations;
      (2)   Accessory dwelling units;
      (3)   Tiny homes; and
      (4)   Other uses deemed compatible with the district by the Planning and
Zoning Commission and Board of Adjustments.
   (E)   Dimensional regulations. See
Appendix following this chapter.
   (F)   Parking regulations. See §
153.070 through
153.073 of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 153.18) (Ord. 920.2, passed 10-30-1980; Ord. 2021-153, passed -
-)
§ 153.019 R-2 - SINGLE- AND TWO-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL.
   (A)   Description of District. This District is composed of single-family
and two-family medium density residential areas of the city, plus certain open
areas where similar residential development appears likely to occur.
   (B)   Permitted uses. Permitted use are as follows:
      (1)   Single-family dwellings;
      (2)   Two-family dwellings;
      (3)   Churches;
      (4)   Cemeteries;
      (5)   Schools;
      (6)   Public easements; and
      (7)   Hobby activities.
   (C)   Accessory uses. The following are permitted accessory uses:
      (1)   Accessory buildings; and
      (2)   Home occupations.
   (D)   Conditional uses. The following are permitted conditional uses:
      (1)   Mobile homes on individual lots;
      (2)   Accessory dwelling units;
   (3)   Tiny homes; and
      (4)   Other uses deemed compatible with the district by the Planning and
Zoning Commission and Board of Adjustments.
   (E)   Dimensional regulations. See the
Appendix following this chapter.
   (F)   Parking regulations. See §§
153.070 through
153.073 of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 153.19) (Ord. 920.2, passed 10-30-1980; Ord. 2021-153, passed -
-)
§ 153.020 R-3 - MULTI-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL.
   (A)   Description of District. This District is composed of multi-family or
apartment residences, but include single- and two-family structures plus
certain open areas where similar residential development appears likely to
occur.
   (B)   Permitted uses. Permitted use are as follows:
      (1)   Single-family dwellings;
      (2)   Two-family dwellings;
      (3)   Multi-family dwellings (except half-way houses);
      (4)   Churches;
      (5)   Schools;
      (6)   Public easements;
      (7)   Mobile home parks; and
      (8)   Hobby activities.
   (C)   Accessory uses. The following are permitted accessory uses:
      (1)   Accessory buildings;
      (2)   Home occupations; and
      (3)   Parking lots.
   (D)   Conditional uses. The following are permitted conditional uses:
      (1)   Mobile homes on individual lots;
      (2)   Accessory dwelling units;
      (3)   Tiny homes;
      (4)   Tiny home planned development unit; and
      (5)   Other uses deemed compatible with the district by the Planning and
Zoning Commission and Board of Adjustments.
   (E)   Dimensional regulations. See the
Appendix following this chapter.
   (F)   Parking regulations. See §§
153.070 through
153.073 of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 153.20) (Ord. 920.2, passed 10-30-1980; Ord. 2021-153, passed -
-)
§ 153.021 C-1 - COMMERCIAL.
   (A)   Description of District. This District is composed of certain lands of
the city used primarily to provide retail and wholesale goods, along with
professional and personal services which support the primary needs of the
citizenry. The Central Business District is generally the location of these
uses. This district does not include shopping centers or malls.
   (B)   Permitted uses. Permitted use are as follows:
      (1)   Retail sales;
      (2)   Wholesale sales;
      (3)   Professional offices;
      (4)   Personal service establishments;
      (5)   Churches;
      (6)   Schools;
      (7)   Cemeteries;
      (8)   All uses which are “permitted uses” within R-1, R-2, and R-
3 Districts; and
      (9)   Hobby activities.
   (C)   Accessory uses. The following are permitted accessory uses:
      (1)   Parking lots; and
      (2)   Accessory buildings.
   (D)   Conditional uses. The following are permitted conditional uses:
      (1)   Automobile service stations;
      (2)   Mobile homes on individual lots; and
      (3)   Other uses deemed compatible with the district by the Planning and
Zoning Commission and Board of Adjustments.
   (E)   Dimensional regulations. See the
Appendix following this chapter.
   (F)   Parking regulations. See §§
153.070 through
153.073 of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 153.21) (Ord. 920.2, passed 10-30-1980; Ord. 2021-153, passed -
-)
§ 153.022 C-2 - HIGHWAY COMMERCIAL.
   (A)   Description of District. This District is composed of certain lands of
the city used primarily to provide convenience goods and a wide range of
highway-oriented activities. The main source of traffic is from automobile
traffic. Neighborhood or community shopping centers comprise this type of use.
   (B)   Permitted uses. Permitted use are as follows:
      (1)   Shopping center or malls;
      (2)   Retail sales;
      (3)   Wholesale sales;
      (4)   Professional offices;
      (5)   Personal service establishments;
      (6)   Churches;
      (7)   Schools;
      (8)   Cemeteries;
      (9)   All uses which are “permitted uses” within R-1, R-2, R-3, and C-
1 Districts; and
      (10)   Hobby activities.
   (C)   Accessory uses. The following are permitted accessory uses:
      (1)   Parking lots or structures; and
      (2)   Accessory buildings.
   (D)   Conditional uses. The following are permitted conditional uses:
      (1)   Junkyards;
      (2)   Drive-in theaters;
      (3)   Mobile homes on individual lots; and
      (4)   Other uses deemed compatible with the district by the Planning and
Zoning Commission and Board of Adjustments.
   (E)   Dimensional regulations. See the
Appendix following this chapter.
   (F)   Parking regulations. See §§
153.070 through
153.073 of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 153.22) (Ord. 920.2, passed 10-30-1980; Ord. 2021-153, passed -
-)
§ 153.023 I-1 - LIGHT INDUSTRY.
   (A)   Description of District. This District is composed of certain lands of
the city used primarily for facilities engaged in light manufacturing or
assembly processes, plus certain other areas where similar development appears
likely to occur.
   (B)   Permitted uses. Any industrial facility which is deemed compatible
with the District by the Planning and Zoning Commission and Board of
Adjustments and does not emit more light glare, noise, or air pollution than
any adjoining districts.
   (C)   Accessory uses. The following are permitted accessory uses:
      (1)   Parking lots;
      (2)   Accessory buildings;
      (3)   Junkyards; and
      (4)   Other uses deemed compatible with the district by the Planning and
Zoning Commission and Board of Adjustments.
   (D)   Conditional uses. The following are permitted conditional uses: those
uses compatible with the district by the Planning and Zoning Commission and
Board of Adjustments.
   (E)   Dimensional regulations. See the
Appendix following this chapter.
   (F)   Parking regulations. See §§
153.070 through
153.073 of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 153.23) (Ord. 920.2, passed 10-30-1980; Ord. 2021-153, passed -
-)
§ 153.024 I-2 - HEAVY INDUSTRY.
   (A)   Description of District. This District is composed of certain lands of
the city used primarily for facilities engaged in heavy industrial processes,
plus certain other areas where similar development appears likely to occur.
   (B)   Permitted uses.
      (1)   Heavy industrial operations which comply with state and federal
environmental regulations and which are deemed appropriate by the Planning and
Zoning Commission.
      (2)   All uses which are permitted uses within C-1, C-2, and I-
2 Districts.
   (C)   Accessory uses. The following are permitted accessory uses:
      (1)   Parking lots; and
      (2)   Garages.
   (D)   Conditional uses. The following are permitted conditional uses:
      (1)   Junkyards; and
      (2)   Sanitary landfills.
   (E)   Dimensional regulations. See the
Appendix following this chapter.
   (F)   Parking regulations. See §§
153.070 through
153.073 of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 153.24) (Ord. 920.2, passed 10-30-1980; Ord. 2021-153, passed -
-)
§ 153.025 CONS - CONSERVATION.
   (A)   Description of District. The principal purpose of the Conservation
District is the protection of natural resources and environmentally sensitive
areas, and to prevent these resources and areas from being degraded. The
District permits low intensity and low activity uses which are compatible with
these resource protection goals. It is not intended for high intensity, high
activity, and potentially damaging uses which are customarily provided in other
districts. The types of natural resources and environmentally sensitive areas
which are to be protected, maintained, and conserved in this District include
large canopy forests, fragile hillsides, and highly erodible slopes, habitat
for unique fish and wildlife, threatened and endangered species, wetlands,
stream corridors, and other sensitive or unique natural areas and features.
   (B)   Permitted uses.
      (1)   Nature preserves, public and private open space parks, wildlife
preserves, hunting grounds, fishing, and hiking areas;
      (2)   Historic sites, historic structures, historic monuments, historic
farms and accompanying produce sales, outdoor education exhibits, natural
history museums, and existing cemeteries;
      (3)   Agricultural or farming uses; and
      (4)   Small roadside stands and farmers marts selling produce only;
   (C)   Accessory uses. The following are permitted accessory uses: dwelling
unit (subject to zoning district standards) for groundskeeper, caretaker, or
manager of the property including:
      (1)   Private garages and parking;
      (2)   Structures such as fences and walls;
      (3)   Storage sheds, barns; and
      (4)   Private stables or other keeping and use of pets and animals.
   (D)   Conditional uses. The following uses and appropriate accessories
subject to the approval and qualifications of the Board of Adjustments and
Zoning Appeals provided, the activity is of integral relation to and directly
in support of the conservation activity, or the use, building, or structure is
subservient to and not of scale, nature advertisement, trade, or other
character which will compete, detract, or conflict with the principal purpose
of the District; the activity is necessary to serve the public or membership
engaged in the principal purpose so long as the service area, use, scale, or
other character of the activity does not overpower, transcend of conflict with
the principal purpose of the District of immediate environs surrounding; and
provided the arrangement of use, building, or structure is mutually compatible
with the organization of permitted and accessory uses to be protected in the
District. The uses below shall be related to a nature preserve, open space
park, wildlife preserve, fishing and hiking areas, hunting grounds, historic
sites, historic structures, historic monuments, farms, existing cemeteries, and
museums:
      (1)   Retail sales or service of gasoline, oil, marine craft and
accessories, grocery items, confectionery, drug and proprietary, art and craft
products, books and stationery, antiques, sporting and athletic goods, bait,
fuel and ice, bottled gas, newspapers and magazines, photographic supplies,
gifts, novelties, souvenirs, and similar products;
      (2)   The operation of eating and drinking establishments;
      (3)   Bed and breakfast inns; and
      (4)   Roadside stands, farmer’s marts, and similar sales uses of
agricultural and related products including specialty crafts and foods.
   (E)   Dimensional regulations. There is no minimum size or extent of a
Conservation District.
   (F)   Minimum standards. All uses shall be conducted in a manner that
supports the preservation of the natural or historic features of the site. No
permitted activity shall degrade the resource(s) which is intended to be
protected by the Conservation District.
   (G)   Parking regulations. See §§
153.070 through
153.073 of this chapter.
(Ord. 2021-153, passed - -)
MOBILE HOMES
§ 153.040 CONDITIONAL USE PERMITS.
   (A)   Mobile homes for rent and mobile home lots for rent may not exist
outside of mobile home parks within the city. Conditional use permits may be
issued owner-occupied mobile homes. Tie-downs, underpinning, annual permit
renewal, and the same regulations as those covering single-family dwellings
shall be part of the conditions imposed by the Board of Adjustments when
issuing a conditional use permit. This conditional use permit shall be issued
for the applicant only and is not transferable. Travel trailers, buses, and
campers may not be set on individual lots for permanent dwellings.
   (B)   All conditional use permits issued for a mobile home on an individual
lot of record may be reviewed at the end of a 12-month period and either
renewed or rescinded.
(Prior Code, § 153.35) (Ord. 920.2, passed 10-30-1980; Ord. 2021-153, passed -
-)
§ 153.041 PROHIBITED IN R-1 DISTRICTS.
   Mobile home on an individual lot of record shall be located within an R-
1 District or on the city’s Main Street.
(Prior Code, § 153.36) (Ord. 920.2, passed 10-30-1980; Ord. 2021-153, passed -
-)
§ 153.042 NONCONFORMING USE.
   (A)   All mobile homes on an individual lot of record shall be subject to
their restrictions imposed by the respective zoning district in which it is
located.
   (B)   Mobile homes located on an individual lot of record at the time of the
adoption of this chapter shall be classified as nonconforming structures only
if the original placement on the lot was not in contravention of state, local,
or other regulations of ordinances existing at that time period when a
nonconforming mobile home is removed and another is put in its place, the new
mobile home must be compatible with the size of the lot on which it is located.
(Prior Code, § 153.37) (Ord. 920.2, passed 10-30-1980; Ord. 2021-153, passed -
-)
§ 153.043 MOBILE HOME PARKS.
   No mobile home park shall be permitted a density of more than eight mobile
home lots per acre. Mobile home shall be separated from each other by minimum
of 20 feet. Two parking spaces shall be provided for each lot.
(Prior Code, § 153.38) (Ord. 920.2, passed 10-30-1980; Ord. 2021-153, passed -
-) Penalty, see §
153.999
ACCESSORY DWELLING UNITS AND TINY HOMES
§ 153.055 ACCESSORY DWELLING UNITS (ADU).
   (A)   A lot may have one primary dwelling unit and once accessory dwelling
unit.
   (B)   On a lot where there are two dwelling units present, any deeds must
remain with one owner in perpetuity. This does not mean any given owner must
continue to hold the deeds in perpetuity, but means that any given owner must
sell or otherwise transfer all deeds at once. It is prohibited to sell or
otherwise transfer only one deed.
   (C)   ADUs shall not be more than 400 square feet or less than 200 square
feet, nor have more than two bedrooms.
   (D)   All setback requirements that apply to the principal dwelling unit
also apply to the ADU.
   (E)   The minimum distance between the principal dwelling unit and the ADU
must be at least 15 feet.
   (F)   ADUs must be placed on a permanent foundation.
   (G)   There must be at least one parking space provided for the ADU in
addition to the parking required for the main dwelling unit.
   (H)   ADUs shall comply with the requirements of any applicable housing or
building codes.
   (I)   ADUs shall comply with all other requirements for dwelling units
contained in this Zoning Code unless specifically stated in this section.
   (J)   Any other appropriate or more stringent conditions deemed necessary by
the Planning Commission to protect the public health, safety, and welfare, and
character of the neighborhood may be imposed.
   (K)   ADUs shall be considered residences, not accessory structures.
   (L)   Application for a permit for an accessory dwelling unit shall be made
to BOZA in accordance with established conditional use permit procedures. All
general zoning permit application procedures are also applicable.
(Ord. 2021-153, passed - -) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.056 TINY HOMES AS PRIMARY DWELLING UNITS.
   (A)   In the R-1 District, there may be a maximum of two tiny homes present
on one lot. In the R-2 District, there may be a maximum of three tiny homes
present on one lot. In the R-3 District, there may be a maximum of four tiny
homes present on one lot, with the exception of in a tiny home planned
development unit.
   (B)   On a lot where there are two or more dwelling units present, any deeds
must remain with one owner in perpetuity. This does not mean any given owner
must continue to hold the deeds in perpetuity, but means that any given owner
must sell or otherwise transfer all deeds at once. It is prohibited to sell or
otherwise transfer only one deed.
   (C)   Tiny homes shall not be more than 400 square feet or less than 200
square feet, nor have more than two bedrooms.
   (D)   All setback requirements that apply to a lot with one dwelling unit
apply to lots with two or more tiny homes as primary dwelling units.
   (E)   The minimum distance between tiny homes must be at least 15 feet.
   (F)   All tiny homes must be placed on a permanent foundation.
   (G)   There must be at least one parking space for each tiny home.
   (H)   All tiny homes shall comply with the requirements of any applicable
housing or building codes.
   (I)   Tiny homes shall comply with all other requirements for dwelling units
contained in this Zoning Code and all other ordinances in this code of
ordinances unless specifically stated in this section.
   (J)   Any other appropriate or more stringent conditions deemed necessary by
the Planning Commission to protect the public health, safety, and welfare, and
character of the neighborhood may be imposed.
   (K)   Application for a permit for a tiny home shall be made to BOZA in
accordance with established conditional use permit procedures. All general
zoning permit application procedures are also applicable.
(Ord. 2021-153, passed - -) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.057 TINY HOME PLANNED DEVELOPMENT UNIT.
   (A)   Tiny home planned development units are permissible in the R-3 Zoning
District.
   (B)   Application must be made to BOZA in accordance with established
conditional use permit procedures.
   (C)   Tiny home planned development units shall be permitted a density of no
more than eight tiny home lots per acre.
   (D)   Tiny homes shall be separated from each other by minimum of 15 feet.
   (E)   At least one parking space shall be provided for each tiny home.
   (F)   In tiny home planned development units, there can be up to four tiny
homes present on one lot.
   (G)   The minimum distance between tiny homes must be at least 15 feet
   (H)   There must be a common open area. The common open space area shall
include usable public spaces, such as lawn, gardens, patios, plazas, or scenic
viewing areas. Common tables, chairs, and benches are encouraged, with all
homes having access to it. Two hundred square feet of common space is required
per unit. Community buildings or clubhouses can be counted towards the common
open space calculation.
   (I)   All tiny homes within these units shall comply with the requirements
of any applicable housing or building codes.
   (J)   Tiny homes in these units shall comply with all other requirements for
dwelling units contained in this Zoning Code and all other ordinances in this
code of ordinances unless specifically stated in this section.
   (K)   Any other appropriate or more stringent conditions deemed necessary by
the Planning Commission to protect the public health, safety, and welfare, and
character of the neighborhood may be imposed.
(Ord. 2021-153, passed - -) Penalty, see §
153.999
PARKING REGULATIONS
§ 153.070 RESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS.
   In residential districts, two spaces containing a minimum of 180 square feet
for each dwelling are required, with the exception of ADUs and tiny homes,
where only one space is required.
(Prior Code, § 153.50) (Ord. 920.2, passed 10-30-1980; Ord. 2021-153, passed -
-) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.071 COMMERCIAL DISTRICTS.
   (A)   No parking requirements for C-1 Commercial Districts.
   (B)   One parking space (180 square feet) for each 100 square feet of floor
space in the facility, plus one space for each employee, are required in C-
2 Commercial Districts.
(Prior Code, § 153.51) (Ord. 920.2, passed 10-30-1980; Ord. 2021-153, passed -
-) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.072 INDUSTRIAL DISTRICTS.
   Parking space (180 square feet) for every two persons employed on the
premises is required for Industrial Districts.
(Prior Code, § 153.52) (Ord. 920.2, passed 10-30-1980; Ord. 2021-153, passed -
-) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.073 CONSERVATION DISTRICTS.
   No parking requirements for CONS Conservation Districts.
(Ord. 2021-153, passed - -)
FENCES AND WALLS
§ 153.085 FENCE AND WALL REGULATIONS FOR ALL DISTRICTS.
   (A)   Fences and walls located in any district shall be subject to the
following height and location restrictions unless a variance is granted by the
Board of Zoning Adjustments. Fences or walls shall meet the following height
limitations:
      (1)   Front yard: four feet; and
      (2)   Rear and side yards: eight feet.
   (B)   No fence or wall shall be located closer than ten feet to any street
right-of-way.
   (C)   On corner lots, the side facing the secondary street shall be treated
as a front yard.
   (D)   The use of barbed wire, electric, or sharp pointed fences or walls
shall be prohibited.
   (E)   No fence or wall that obstructs sight along any public way shall be
erected.
   (F)   The location, height, and type of all fences and/or walls within any
residentially zoned area must be approved by the Board of Adjustments.
(Ord. 2021-153, passed - -) Penalty, see §
153.999
NONCONFORMING USES
§ 153.100 NONCONFORMING USE.
   (A)   A nonconforming use shall not be extended or enlarged beyond the scope
or area of its operation at the time of adoption of the ordinance or regulation
which makes such use nonconforming. Area shall mean that structure and/or lot
within or upon the nonconforming use is being operated.
   (B)   Whenever a nonconforming use of any structure or lot has been
discontinued for a period of 12 months, the structure or lot must thereafter
conform with this chapter, except if the nonconforming use was ended because of
the destruction of the structure by natural disaster, in which case the period
is 24 months.
   (C)   A nonconforming use of any structure is halted because of the damage
or destruction of the structure by any means for which restoration to a safe
condition would cost more than 70% of its replacement value, the structure
involved may be reconstructed or repaired, provided that such nonconforming use
is not extended beyond the scope and area of its operation as it existed prior
to such damage or destruction.
(Prior Code, § 153.65) (Ord. 920.2, passed 10-30-1980; Ord. 2021-153, passed -
-) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.101 NONCONFORMING STRUCTURE.
   (A)   A nonconforming structure shall not be enlarged, replaced, or
structurally altered except in conformance with this chapter. Except as
provided elsewhere in this chapter, any structure may be restored to a safe
condition if declared unsafe by a public official with jurisdiction.
   (B)   A nonconforming structure for which restoration to a safe condition
would cost more than 70% of its replacement value shall not be restored except
in conformance with this chapter.
   (C)   A proposed structure for which a building permit has been issued prior
to its designation as nonconforming by the adoption of or an amendment to this
chapter, may be completed as originally intended, provided the structure is
completed an in use within one year after its designation as nonconforming by
the Planning and Zoning Commission.
(Prior Code, § 153.66) (Ord. 920.2, passed 10-30-1980; Ord. 2021-153, passed -
-) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.102 NONCONFORMING LOT.
   (A)   A lot of record existing at the time of the passage of this chapter
which does not conform to the width, depth, or area requirements of this
chapter shall be considered a legal nonconforming lot.
   (B)   Any legal nonconforming lot may be used for a building site under the
following conditions:
      (1)   Side requirements for a minimum setback shall be met; and
      (2)   The front building line for the proposed building or structure
shall be no closer to the front lot line than the closest existing building or
structure on the block upon which the lot is located.
(Prior Code, § 153.67) (Ord. 920.2, passed 10-30-1980; Ord. 2021-153, passed -
-) Penalty, see §
153.999
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 153.115 ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICIAL.
   (A)   The chairperson of the Planning and Zoning Commission shall
automatically be designated as the administrative official and be charged with
and provided the authority to enforce the orders, ordinances, and regulations
of the Commission.
   (B)   The duties and powers of the administrative official include the
authority to:
      (1)   Propose and recommend to the Commission the enactment of amendments
to this chapter for the purpose of improving administration and enforcement;
      (2)   Propose and recommend to the Commission the enactment of amendments
to the official map as necessary by judicial or administrative proceedings or
as deemed desirable because of changing conditions;
      (3)   Review all applications and, upon compliance with this chapter,
approve and refer applications to the City Clerk-Treasurer for issuance of
building permits;
      (4)   Receive all applications for amendments to this chapter in the
official map, refers such applications to the appropriate agencies for
examination, and submit all applications with recommendations to the
Commission;
      (5)   Administrator of rules and regulations established by the
Commission;
      (6)   Maintain a map or maps showing the current zoning of all land
within the jurisdiction of the Commission;
      (7)   Maintain a current register of all the nonconforming uses,
variances, and conditional use permits;
      (8)   Record with the City Clerk-Treasurer all matters required to be
recorded by the Commission;
      (9)   Maintain written records of all actions taken by the Commission
under this chapter; and
      (10)   Prepare an annual financial report for the submission to the
Commission and Mayor.
(Prior Code, § 153.75) (Ord. 920.2, passed 10-30-1980; Ord. 2021-153, passed -
-)
§ 153.116 PLANNING AND ZONING COMMISSION.
   The duties and powers of the Planning and Zoning Commission shall include:
   (A)   Enforcing this chapter;
   (B)   Conducting investigations and surveys to determine compliance or
noncompliance with the provisions of this chapter;
   (C)   Issuing to the Mayor written notice of all violations of this chapter
and recommending actions to be taken; and
   (D)   Reviewing all applications for building permits; referring those
requiring conditional use permits to the Board of Adjustments for action; and
returning the remainder to the City Clerk-Treasurer with instructions for
issuance or non-issuance of the building permit.
(Prior Code, § 153.76) (Ord. 920.2, passed 10-30-1980; Ord. 2021-153, passed -
-)
§ 153.117 BOARD OF ADJUSTMENTS.
   (A)   A Board of Adjustments shall be appointed pursuant to KRS 100.217.
   (B)   The Board of Adjustments shall conduct meetings at the call of the
chairperson who shall give written or oral notice to all members of the Board
at least seven days prior to the meeting. This notice shall contain the date,
time, in place for the meeting and the subject or subjects to be discussed.
   (C)   The Board of Adjustments shall adopt bylaws for the transaction of
business and shall keep minutes and records of all proceedings, including
regulations, transactions, findings, determinations, the number of votes for
and against each question, and members absent or abstaining from voting.
   (D)   The Board shall have the power to hear inside applications for
conditional use permits to allow proper integration into the community, of uses
which are specifically named in this chapter under conditions listed in KRS
100.237.
   (E)   The Board shall have the power to hear and decide on applications for
variances pursuant to the requirements of KRS 100.127, 100.241, and 100.251.
   (F)   The Board shall give public notice of all hearings in the accordance
with the KRS Chapter 424, as well as written notice to the appellant in the
administrative official at least one week prior to the hearing date and shall
decide it within 60 days. The appellant may appear at the hearing in person or
by attorney.
   (G)   An variance permit shall be recorded in the office of the City Clerk-
Treasurer following approval by the Board.
   (H)   Before any variance is granted, the Board must find that the granting
of the variance will not adversely affect the public health, safety, or
welfare, will not alter the essential character of the general facility, will
not cause a hazard or a nuisance to the public, and will not allow any
unreasonable circumvention of the requirements of the zoning regulations. In
making these findings, the Board shall consider whether:
      (1)   The requested variance arises from the special circumstances which
do not generally apply to the land and the general facility, or in the same
zone;
      (2)   The strict application of the provisions of the regulation would
deprive the applicant of the reasonable use of the land or create an
unnecessary hardship on the applicant; and
      (3)   The circumstances are the result of actions of the applicant taken
subsequent to the adoption of the zoning regulation from which relief is
sought.
   (I)   The Board shall deny any request for a variance arising from
circumstances that are the result of willful violations of the zoning
regulation by the applicant subsequent the adoption of the zoning regulation
from which relief is sought.
(KRS 100.243)
   (J)   Appeals to the Board may be taken by any person or entity claiming to
be injuriously affected or aggrieved by any official action or decision of the
Planning and Zoning Commission or the administrative official. Such appeal may
be taken within 30 days after the appellant or his or her agent receives notice
of the action appealed from, by filling a notice of appeal with the Commission
and or the administration official in accordance with the requirements of KRS
100.261.
   (K)   Appeals from the Commission or Board may be taken in the following
manner:
      (1)   Any person or entity claiming to be injured or aggrieved by the
final action of the Commission or the Board may appeal from the action to the
Circuit Court of the county in which the land lies. Such appeal shall be taken
within 30 days after the final action of the Commission or Board. Final action
shall not include the Commission’s recommendations to other governmental
bodies.
      (2)   All decisions of the Commission or Board which have not been
appealed within 30 days shall become final. After the appeal is taken, their
procedure shall be governed by the Rules of Civil Procedure. When an appeal has
been filed, the clerk of the Circuit Court shall issue a summons to all
parties, including the Planning and Zoning Commission in all cases, and shall
cause it to be delivered for service as in any other law action.
(Prior Code, § 153.77) (Ord. 920.2, passed 10-30-1980; Ord. 2021-153, passed -
-)
§ 153.118 CONDITIONAL USE PERMITS.
   (A)   A conditional use permit authorized by the Board of Adjustments shall
be personal to the applicant and, therefore, shall not be transferable.
   (B)   Whenever a conditional use is authorized, it shall be a type of use
specifically enumerated as permitted for the district in which the property is
located.
   (C)   Whenever a conditional use permit has not been exercised within the
time limit set by the Board, or within one year if no specific time lime has
been set, such conditional use permit shall not revert to its original
designation unless there has been a public hearing. Exercised, as set forth in
this section, shall mean that binding contracts for the construction of the
main building or other improvements have been let; or in the absence of
contracts, that the main building or other improvements is under construction
to a substantial degree. When construction is not part of the use, exercised
shall mean that the use is in operation in compliance with the conditions as
set forth in the permit.
   (D)   Each conditional use permit issued by the Board shall be recorded at
the applicant’s expense in the office of the City Clerk-Treasurer and shall be
accompanied by the following:
      (1)   A statement of the factual determination by the Board which
justifies issuance of the permit; and
      (2)   A statement of specific conditions which must be met in order for
the permit to be issued.
(Prior Code, § 153.78) (Ord. 920.2, passed 10-30-1980; Ord. 2021-153, passed -
-)
§ 153.119 ZONING PERMITS.
   Zoning permits shall be issued in accordance with the following provisions.
   (A)   Zoning permit required. No land shall be used, or building or other
structure shall be erected, moved, added to, structurally altered, or changed
from one permitted use to another, nor shall any grading take place on any lot
or parcel of ground without a permit, issued by the administrative official. No
zoning permit shall be issued except in conformity with the provisions of this
chapter, except after written orders from the Board of Adjustments.
   (B)   Application for zoning permits. All applications for zoning permits
shall be accompanied by:
      (1)   A completed application form provided by the administrative
official;
      (2)   The required fee for a zoning permit, as provided for in the
Appendix of this chapter;
      (3)   An approved development plan or site plan, if required by this
chapter; or
      (4)   A plot plan, in duplicate, drawn at a scale of not less than one
inch to 50 feet, showing the following information as required by this chapter:
         (a)   The location of every existing and proposed building, including
dimensions and height, and the number, size, and type of dwelling units;
         (b)   All property lines, shape, and dimensions of the lot to be built
upon;
         (c)   Lot width at building setback line;
         (d)   Minimum front and rear yard depths and side yard widths;
         (e)   Existing topography, with a maximum of five-foot contour
intervals;
         (f)   Total lot area in square feet;
         (g)   Location and dimensions of all access points, driveways, and
off-street parking spaces;
         (h)   A drainage plan of the lot and its relationship to adjacent
properties, including spot elevations of the proposed finished grade, and
provisions for adequate control of erosion and sedimentation, indicating the
proposed temporary and permanent control practices and measures which will be
implemented during all phases of clearing, grading, and construction;
         (i)   All sidewalks, walkways, and open spaces;
         (j)   Location, type, and height of all walls, fences, and screen
plantings;
         (k)   Location of all existing and proposed streets, including rights-
of way and pavement widths; and
         (l)   All existing and proposed water and sanitary and storm sewer
facilities to serve the lot, indicating all pipe sizes, types, and grades.
   (C)   Issuance of zoning permit. The administrative official shall either
approve or disapprove the application following any required review by the
Planning Commission, or its duly authorized representative.
      (1)   If disapproved, one copy of the submitted plans shall be returned
to the applicant marked “disapproved” and shall indicate the reasons for such
disapproval thereon. Such disapproval shall be attested by the administrative
official’s signature. The other copy, similarly marked, shall be retained by
the administrative official.
      (2)   If approved, one copy of the submitted plans shall be returned to
the applicant, marked “approved.” Such approval shall be attested by the
administrative official’s signature. The other copy, similarly marked, shall be
retained by the administrative official. The administrative official shall also
issue a zoning permit to the applicant at this time and shall retain a
duplicate copy for his or her records.
   (D)   Failure to comply. Failure to obtain a zoning permit shall be a
violation of this chapter and punishable under §
153.999 of this chapter.
   (E)   Expiration of zoning permit. If a building permit, as required herein,
has not been obtained within 90 consecutive calendar days from the date of
issuance of zoning permit, said zoning permit shall expire and be canceled by
the administrative official and a building permit shall not be obtainable until
a new zoning permit has been obtained.
(Ord. 2021-153, passed - -) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.120 BUILDING PERMITS.
   Building permits shall be issued in accordance with the following
provisions.
   (A)   Building permits required. No building or other structure shall be
erected, moved, added to, or structurally altered without a permit issued by
the Building Inspector. No building permit shall be issued except in conformity
with the provisions of this chapter, except after written orders from the Board
of Adjustments.
   (B)   Application for building permits. All applications for building
permits shall be accompanied by:
      (1)   A completed application form, provided by the Building Inspector;
      (2)   An approved zoning permit;
      (3)   The required fee for a building permit, as provided for in the
Appendix of this chapter, as well as in
Chapter 150 of this title; and
      (4)   An approved development plan or site plan, if required by this
chapter; or
      (5)   Plans in duplicate approved by the administrative official and
including any additional information required by the Building Code and/or
Building Inspector, as may be necessary to determine conformance with, and
provide for the enforcement of, the Building Code and the state statutes.
   (C)   Issuance of building permit. 
      (1)   The Building Inspector shall either approve or disapprove the
application. If disapproved, one copy of the submitted plans shall be returned
to the applicant marked “disapproved” and shall indicate the reasons for such
disapproval thereon. Such disapproval shall be attested by the Building
Inspector’s signature. The other copy, similarly marked, shall be retained by
the Building Inspector.
      (2)   If approved, one copy of the submitted plans shall be returned to
the applicant marked “approved.” Such approval shall be attested by the
Building Inspector’s signature. The other copy, similarly marked, shall be
retained by the Building Inspector. The Building Inspector shall also issue a
building permit to the applicant at this time and shall retain a duplicate copy
for his or her records.
   (D)   Compliance. It shall be unlawful to issue a building permit, or
occupancy permit, to build, create, erect, change, alter, convert, or occupy
any building or structure hereafter, unless a zoning permit has been issued in
compliance with this chapter.
   (E)   Building permits issued prior to the adoption of this chapter.
Building permits issued in conformance with the Building Code of the
legislative body prior to the date of adoption of this chapter, whether
consistent or inconsistent with this chapter, shall be valid for a period of
180 consecutive calendar days from time of issuance of the permit. If
construction in connection with such a permit has not been started within such
a 180 consecutive calendar day period, the permit shall be void and a new
permit, consistent with all provisions of this chapter and the Building Code,
shall be required. For purposes of this section, construction shall be deemed
to have been started at the time of completion of the foundation.
   (F)   Expiration of the building permit.
      (1)   If the work described in any building permit has not begun within
90 consecutive calendar days from the date of issuance thereof, said permit
shall expire and be canceled by the Building Inspector and no construction
shall be permitted until a new building permit has been obtained, except, an
extension may be permitted if sufficient evidence can be demonstrated why the
work described in the building permit was not begun.
      (2)   For purposes of this section, construction shall be deemed to have
been started at the time of completion of the foundation. If after the work
described in the building permit has been started, the building permit shall
expire after a period of 18 months, providing that an extension may be
permitted if sufficient evidence can be demonstrated why the work described in
the building permit was not completed as herein specified.
   (G)   Construction and use. To be as provided in applications, plans,
permits, zoning permits, and building permits, issued on the basis of plans and
applications, approved by the administrative official and/or Building
Inspector, authorize only the use, arrangement, and construction set forth in
such approved plans and applications, and no other use, arrangement, or
construction. Use, arrangement, or construction at variance with that
authorized shall be deemed in violation of this chapter and punishable as
provided in §
153.999 of this chapter.
   (H)   Transfers of building permits. Building permit transfers shall not be
allowed unless approved on a case by case basis by the administrative official.
Permit holders wishing to transfer a permit must make a request in writing
describing the circumstances of the request.
(Ord. 2021-153, passed - -) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.121 DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY.
   Any member of the Planning and Zoning Commission, Board of Adjustments, or
any employee thereof, shall not render himself or herself personally liable in
the discharge of his or her duties. Any suit brought against any member of the
Commission, Board, or employee, because of an act performed by him or her in
the enforcement of any provision of this chapter, shall be defended by legal
representation of the Commission until the termination of the proceedings.
(Prior Code, § 153.79) (Ord. 920.2, passed 10-30-1980; Ord. 2021-153, passed -
-)
AMENDMENT PROCEDURE
§ 153.135 PROPOSAL.
   A proposal for amendment to this chapter may originate with the Planning and
Zoning Commission, the City Council, or the owner of the property in question.
The proposed amendment, regardless of the origin, shall be referred to the
Commission for action.
(Prior Code, § 153.85) (Ord. 920.2, passed 10-30-1980; Ord. 2021-153, passed -
-)
§ 153.136 PUBLIC HEARING.
   (A)   The Planning and Zoning Commission shall conduct a minimum of one
public hearing on the proposed amendment after notice as required by KRS
100.211. The Commission shall make a recommendation to the City Council within
45 days from the date of the public hearing. It shall take a majority of the
entire City Council to override the recommendation of the Commission.
   (B)   When a public hearing is scheduled for a proposal to amend the zoning
map or this chapter, the legal notice for the hearing(s) shall comply with KRS
Chapter 424.
(Prior Code, § 153.86) (Ord. 920.2, passed 10-30-1980; Ord. 2021-153, passed -
-)
§ 153.137 MAP AMENDMENTS.
   The Planning and Zoning Commission or City Council must find, before any map
amendment is granted, that the proposed amendment is in agreement with the
comprehensive plan, or in the absence of such a finding, that one or more of
the following apply. Such finding shall be recorded in the minutes and records
of the Commission or City Council:
   (A)   That the existing zoning classification given to the property is
inappropriate and that the proposed zoning classification is appropriate; and
   (B)   That there have been major changes of an economic, physical, or social
nature within the area involved which were not anticipated in the adopted
comprehensive plan which have been substantially altered the basic character of
such area.
(Prior Code, § 153.87) (Ord. 920.2, passed 10-30-1980; Ord. 2021-153, passed -
-)
§ 153.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   The administrative official or Planning and Zoning Commission
chairperson shall issue to the Mayor written notice of all violations of this
chapter and recommend actions to be taken.
   (B)   Any person or entity who violates any of the provisions of this
chapter shall, upon conviction, be fined not less than $10 nor more than $500
for each conviction. Each day of violation shall be deemed a separate offense.
The city may also enforce this chapter per KRS 83A.065.
(Prior Code, §§ 153.98, 153.99) (Ord. 920.2, passed 10-30-1980; Ord. 2021-153,
passed - -)
APPENDIX A: TABLE OF ZONING SPECIFICATIONS
                 Minimum Lot SiMaximum   Maximum     Minimum Setback
Zone District Area      Front     Lot       Building                     Side
     Title    (Sq. Ft.) Width     Coverage  Height   Front Rear One Side Street
                                  (%)       (Ft.)
                     Minimum Lot Maximum  Maximum     Minimum Setback
     District     Size              Lot      Building
Zone Title        Area    Front     Coverage Height              One  Side
                  (Sq.    Width     (%)      (Ft.)    Front Rear Side Street
                  Ft.)
     Single-
     Family
R-1  Residential  15,000  100       35       30       25**  35   10   25**
     (low
     density)
     Single- and
     Two-Family
R-2  Residential  10,000  75        35       30       25**  25   10   20**
     (medium
     density)
R-3  Multi-Family 7,200   60        40       45       25    25   10   20
     Residential
     Commercial
C-1  (retail/     2,500   21        100      45       0     15   0    0
     wholesale/
     office)
C-2  Highway      12,500  100       50       50       50    25   12   50
     Commercial
I-1  Light        43,560  200       50       60       100   50   25   100
     Industry
I-2  Heavy        217,800 200       50       60       100   50   50   100
     Industry
AGRI Agricultural 217,800 200       N/A      N/A      25    N/A  N/A  25
CONS Conservation N/A     N/A       N/A      N/A      N/A   N/A  N/A  N/A
**   or ½ of right-of-way width, whichever is greater
N/A   Not applicable
 
(Prior Code, Ch. 153, Appendix)
CHAPTER 154: TRAILER PARKS
Section
   
154.01   Placement of mobile homes
   
154.02   Fees
   
154.03   Regulations
   
154.04   Prohibitions
   
154.05   Responsibly for property damage
   
154.06   Liens
   
154.07   New owner
   
154.08   Eviction
   
154.09   Rights of city
 
   
154.99   Penalty
§ 154.01 PLACEMENT OF MOBILE HOMES.
   The original placement of mobile homes shall be accomplished within the
guidelines of the city with respect to placement, water and sewer hook-ups, and
mobile home tie-downs. Any security deposits required by the city are
refundable by the city when the mobile home occupying each said lot is removed
from the lot, the lot is thoroughly cleaned, and the lot rent for the lot is
paid in full. In the event of a change of ownership of a mobile home located on
a lot in the trailer park, the city will not require another security deposit
to be made by the new owner until the ownership of the mobile home has
officially changed hands and a new certificate of title is issued in the name
of the new owner for said mobile home, at which time the new owner will then be
required to put up and pay a new security deposit to the city in his or her own
name(s). Prior to placement, the mobile homes shall be subject to inspection by
the Mayor or an official appointed by the Mayor.
(Prior Code, § 154.01) (Ord. 97-2.1, passed 2-17-1997; Ord. 2003-07.01, passed
7-30-2003) Penalty, see §
154.99
§ 154.02 FEES.
   (A)   All lot rental fees for lots in the trailer park shall be charged to
the named owner of the mobile home which is situated on each particular lot.
The owner of the mobile home may rent the trailer to a tenant; however, the
owner will continue to be responsible for the observance of all rules and
regulations set forth in this chapter. The owner will continue to be
responsible for the payment of the lot rental fees.
   (B)   The amount of rent due for all trailers in the trailer park shall
be$140, per month, which sum is due on the first day of the month. Effective
August 1, 2024, the amount of rent due for all trailers in the trailer park
shall increase $15 for a total of $155 per month.
      (C)   A security deposit in an amount equal to one month’s rent for a lot
shall be required from each renter of such a lot in the trailer park. Said
amount shall be deposited with the city at the time said lot is initially
rented by said renter from the city. The amount of the security deposit for a
lot in the trailer park shall be set by the city.
   (D)   All lot rental fees and all city water and sewer bills for lots in the
trailer park shall be charged to the named owner of the mobile home which is
situated on each particular lot.
   (E)   A delinquent fee in the amount of $5 per day shall be charged to the
renter of a lot when the lot rent is not paid by said renter for a given month
by or before the tenth day of the month. The delinquent fee shall then be
charged to the renter from the tenth day of the month until the rent is paid by
the renter or until the end of that particular month, whichever occurs first.
   (F)   In the event that returned check was given for the payment of the
rent, a charge in the amount of $25 will be added to the unpaid lot rent, plus
any late charges thereon calculated from the tenth day of the month.
   (G)   If the city is required to mow the grass of any lot renter because
said grass is too high or unsightly, then the city will assess such lot renter
a fee in the amount of $40 for each such mowing. A five-day notice will be
given to said lot renter before any such mowing by the city occurs.
(Prior Code, § 154.02) (Ord. 97-2.1, passed 2-17-1997; Ord. 2003-07.01, passed
7-30-2003; Ord. 2004-11.01, passed 11-15-2004; Ord. 2005-08.01, passed 8-15-
2005; Ord. 2013-04.01, passed 4-29-2013; Ord. 2023.07.05, passed 7-17-2023)
Penalty, see §  
154.99
§ 154.03 REGULATIONS.
   (A)   All garbage in the trailer park shall be picked up by the city shall
be placed in metal or plastic garbage cans with secured lids. At no time shall
any lot renter set out or place garbage on or next to a city street prior to
the night before the next regularly scheduled trash pick-up day for the trailer
park area. At no time will garbage be stored only in plastic bags, boxes, or
paper sacks.
   (B)   Each lot renter shall keep the grass on his or her lot in the trailer
park mowed below a height of six inches. If at any time the grass on such a lot
reaches a height of six inches or higher, the city shall have the option of
coming onto said lot and thereby mowing said lot and then charging the lot
owner a fee (see §
154.02 of this chapter) which shall be paid timely along with the lot rent for
said lot.
   (C)   All household pets shall be kept inside the mobile home of each lot
renter at all times, except for any brief periods when the pet is taken outside
for health and/or exercise purposes, during which time it must be kept on a
leash. At no time shall any pet be turned loose outside, tied outside, placed
in a pen outside, or otherwise restrained outside or be allowed to continuously
remain outside the mobile home.
   (D)   The speed limit for all vehicles in the trailer park shall be five
mph. Any violators of said speed limit can be cited by the city for such.
   (E)   No major auto or mechanical work can be or shall be allowed to be
performed in the trailer park.
   (F)   While buildings are permitted on said lots, any such buildings can be
no larger than eight feet by ten feet and the building must be properly secured
or tied down and must be approved by the Mayor or the appropriate official of
the city. Such buildings also cannot be placed over or on top of any water or
sewer line.
   (G)   Any unusable or disabled vehicles located on any lot in trailer park
property can be towed or moved from said lot by the city and stored in a
suitable location, at the lot owner’s expense, and any unpaid costs will be
subsequently added to the lot owner’s rental fee.
   (H)   In the event of a water or sewer leak in the trailer park, the water
or sewer service provided by the city to the park may be temporarily
disconnected until the leak can be repaired.
   (I)   Proper underpinning must be placed on a mobile home located on a space
in the trailer park within 30 days of its initial placement on the space.
   (J)   Renters shall be permitted to plant shrubs, trees, and flowers on
their lots in the trailer park. However, once planted on such a lot, they shall
become the property of the city.
   (K)   All mobile homes located in the trailer park must be of a good
appearance and in good and sound repair.
   (L)   The city shall supervise the placement of all mobile homes in the
trailer park and will inspect all connections with regards to said lot before
their use by the lot renter.
   (M)   A lot renter is permitted to continuously have, in total, only two
vehicles, boats, trailers, campers, or any combination of any two such items on
his or her lot.
   (N)   No building improvements or appurtenances shall be built next to,
attached to, connected to, or constructed close to any mobile home or on any
mobile home lot in the trailer park without the specific written permission and
approval of the city.
   (O)   No mobile home which is over ten years in age shall be permitted to be
placed, located, situated, or continue to remain in the trailer park without
the specific written permission and approval of the city.
(Prior Code, § 154.03) (Ord. 97-2.1, passed 2-17-1997; Ord. 2003-07.01, passed
7-30-2003; Ord. 2004-11.01, passed 11-15-2004; Ord. 2009-09.01, passed 9-30-
2009) Penalty, see §
154.99
§ 154.04 PROHIBITIONS.
   (A)   No trucks or any other motor vehicles, excluding city-owned vehicles,
weighing more than 3,000 pounds are permitted on the roadways in the trailer
park.
   (B)   No renter shall be permitted to accumulate trash, rubbish, junk, and
other debris on his or her lot. Violators will be subject to fines and possible
eviction.
   (C)   No renter shall be permitted to create excessive noise on his or her
lot in the trailer park. Also, any violation of this rule by visitors to the
home of any renter shall be charged against the particular renter who has said
visitors. Violations of this rule may result in the particular lot renter being
cited by the city police for such. Continuous violations may result in the
eviction of said renter.
   (D)   No firearms, handguns, guns, BB guns, pellet guns, or other air
powered type guns shall be permitted to be fired in the trailer park.
   (E)   No open fires or other burnings shall be permitted to occur in the
trailer park.
   (F)   No fences of any kind shall be permitted on any said lot in the
trailer park.
   (G)   No swimming or wading pools of any kind will be permitted in the
trailer park.
   (H)   No wood burning stoves shall be permitted in any mobile home located
in the city trailer park.
   (I)   No peddling, soliciting, or the operating of a business or commercial
enterprise or venture shall be permitted in the trailer park.
   (J)   No motorized or mechanized equipment shall be permitted in the trailer
park, including but not limited to, motorcycles, mini bikes, four-wheelers, go
carts, and mopeds.
   (K)   No dog houses or animal pens of any kind shall be permitted outside of
the renter’s mobile home.
   (L)   No porches or decks can be built or attached to any mobile home
without the specific written permission and approval of the city.
   (M)   No clothes lines of any kind shall be permitted outside a mobile home
on any said lot.
   (N)   No person or entity that is renting a lot in the city trailer park can
rent the mobile home on his or her lot in the park.
(Prior Code, § 154.04) (Ord. 97-2.1, passed 2-17-1997; Ord. 2003-07.01, passed
7-30-2003; Ord. 2004-11.01, passed 11-15-2004; Ord. 2007-04.01, passed 4-16-
2007) Penalty, see §
154.99
§ 154.05 RESPONSIBLY FOR PROPERTY DAMAGE.
   Anyone moving a mobile home into the trailer park or moving one out of the
trailer park shall be responsible to the city for any property damage to the
trailer park caused by such moving. The owner of the mobile home is also
responsible for all the costs associated with the moving of the home.
(Prior Code, § 154.05) (Ord. 2003-07.01, passed 7-30-2003) Penalty, see §
154.99
§ 154.06 LIENS.
   The city may place a lien upon the mobile home of any renter of any lot in
the trailer park who owes the city for past due rent or for damages to any lot
in the trailer park caused by the moving of his or her mobile home for the
total amount of such unpaid rent or damages. The city may take all other
available and appropriate actions and measures to collect said amounts owed to
or due it by such renters.
(Prior Code, § 154.06) (Ord. 2003-07.01, passed 7-30-2003) Penalty, see §
154.99
§ 154.07 NEW OWNER.
   When a mobile home in the trailer park is sold to a new owner, the new owner
must apply and receive the written consent and approval of the city to remain
in the trailer park before the mobile home will be allowed to remain situated
in the city trailer park. Otherwise, the mobile home will be required to be
removed from the trailer park in a timely manner.
(Prior Code, § 154.07) (Ord. 2004-11.01, passed 11-15-2004)
§ 154.08 EVICTION.
   (A)   In the event the lot rent is not timely paid by the tenth day of the
month, a notice of eviction will be sent by the city to said delinquent renter
notifying said renter that they must vacate the premises within 30 days of said
notice.
   (B)   If said renter has not vacated the premises within said 30-day period
of time, the city may undertake all appropriate legal measures necessary to
regain possession of said lot.
(Prior Code, § 154.08) (Ord. 2004-11.01, passed 11-15-2004)
§ 154.09 RIGHTS OF CITY.
   (A)   The city specifically reserves the right to not rent a lot in the city
trailer park to any renter deemed untrustworthy or undesirable by the city.
   (B)   Appropriate credit and reference checks will be conducted by the city
on any applicant for lot rental before said applicant shall be permitted to
rent a lot in the trailer park.
   (C)   The city is specifically not responsible for any fire, theft, or
damage of any kind to any mobile home, vehicle, or other personal property
situated in the trailer park. The city will also not be liable or responsible
for any personal injuries occurring inside the trailer park.
   (D)   The city specifically reserves the right to require any renter to
vacate their premises for improper, undesirable, and/or illegal conduct or for
any act or acts that harass, annoy, or alarm or create a nuisance the other lot
renters in the trailer park. Lot renters are also responsible for the conduct
and actions of the occupants of the mobile home and their invited guests to the
trailer park.
(Prior Code, § 154.09) (Ord. 2004-11.01, passed 11-15-2004)
§ 154.99 PENALTY.
   Any noncompliance or infraction of any provision of this chapter shall be
declared a violation and said violation shall result in immediate expulsion
from the city trailer park and/or a fine of $50. Each day a violation continues
shall be deemed a separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 154.99) (Ord. 97-2.1, passed 2-17-1997)
CHAPTER 155: HISTORIC PRESERVATION DISTRICT
Section
   
155.01   Intent and declaration of public policy
   
155.02   Definitions
   
155.03   Designation of historic preservation districts and landmarks
   
155.04   Initial designation of district, landmark, and sites
   
155.05   Approval of changes to landmarks and property in historic preservation
districts
   
155.06   Conformity with certificate of appropriateness
   
155.07   Signage
   
155.08   Materials
   
155.09   Facades
   
155.10   Legal status
   
155.11   Zoning conflicts
   
155.12   Historic Zones, H-1 and H-2
 
   
155.99   Penalty
§ 155.01 INTENT AND DECLARATION OF PUBLIC POLICY.
   (A)   The City Council finds that the city could be damaged by new
construction that could harm the historic and architectural character of the
city notwithstanding the feasibility and desirability of designing new
buildings that would be appropriate to the established character of the city.
   (B)   The Council finds that buildings having historic, architectural, or
cultural value have been significantly altered or destroyed notwithstanding the
feasibility of preserving these buildings or altering them in an appropriate
way.
   (C)   The Council finds that the historic and architectural character of the
city is of vital importance in maintaining the economy of the city.
   (D)   The Council finds that the city has played an important role in the
development of the county and that the history of the city is shown today
through buildings representing the activities and events during its growth. The
Council finds that the city has buildings that represent the persons who live
or have lived in the city during a period of more than 100 years. It is the
finding of the City Council that the distinctive and significant character of
the city can only be maintained by protecting and enhancing its historic,
architectural, and cultural heritage and preventing unnecessary injury to its
historic preservation district and its landmarks which are a civic and
community asset.
   (E)   The Council finds that this chapter and the historic preservation
program benefits all the residents of the city and all the owners of property.
   (F)   The City Council declares as a matter of public policy that the
preservation, protection, and use of historic districts and landmarks are a
public necessity because they have a special character and historic,
architectural, and cultural value and thus serve as visible reminders of the
history and heritage of this city, state, and nation. The Council declares as a
matter of public policy that this chapter is required in the interest of the
health, prosperity, safety, welfare, and economic well-being of the people.
   (G)   The purpose of this chapter is to effect the goals as set forth in the
above findings and declarations of public policy and specifically, but not
exclusively, to:
      (1)   Effect and accomplish the preservation, protection, and use of the
historic preservation district and individual landmarks which have a special
character and historic, architectural value to the city, state, and nation;
      (2)   Promote the educational, cultural, economic, and general welfare of
the people and safeguard the city’s history and heritage as embodied and
reflected in its historic preservation district and landmarks;
      (3)   Stabilize and improve property values in such district and in the
city as a whole;
      (4)   Foster civic pride in the value of notable accomplishments of the
past;
      (5)   Strengthen the economy of the city;
      (6)   Protect and enhance the city’s attractions to residents and
visitors; and
      (7)   Enhance the visual and aesthetic character, diversity, and interest
of the city.
(Prior Code, § 155.01) (Ord. 97.12-1, passed 12-22-1997)
§ 155.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose if this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALTERATION. Any construction, replacement, or change to the exterior of a
building or structure when it is visible to the public. An ALTERATION shall
include a proposed sign or changes to an existing sign.
   CERTIFICATE OF APPROPRIATENESS. The permit issued by the Planning and Zoning
Commission, which gives its approval for work to be done in the Historic
Preservation District or on a landmark.
   COUNCIL or CITY COUNCIL. The Cloverport City Council.
   COMMISSION or PLANNING AND ZONING COMMISSION. The City of Cloverport
Planning and Zoning Commission.
   DEMOLITION. Any act that destroys in whole or in part a landmark or a
building or structure in the Historic Preservation District.
   HISTORIC PRESERVATION DISTRICT. An area of architectural, historical, or
cultural significance which meets one or more of the criteria contained in §
155.03 of this chapter and which has been designated by the city.
   LANDMARK. A building or structure of architectural, historical, or cultural
significance which meets one or more of the criteria contained in §
155.03 of this chapter which has been designated by the city.
   NEW CONSTRUCTION. An addition to an existing building or structure or the
construction of a new building or structure.
   ORDINARY MAINTENANCE AND REPAIR. Any work, the purpose of which is to
correct deterioration or to prevent deterioration of a designated historic
property. The work shall restore the property to its appearance prior to
deterioration or shall result in the protection of its appearance. The work
shall involve the use of the same building materials or as close as possible to
the original.
   SIGNS; REGULATION. The number, size, height, appearance, and location of
signs in the historic preservation district will be controlled by the Planning
and Zoning Commission through their review process as set forth in this
chapter. Further definitions and regulations concerning signs shall adhere to §
155.07 of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 155.02) (Ord. 97.12-1, passed 12-22-1997)
§ 155.03 DESIGNATION OF HISTORIC PRESERVATION DISTRICTS AND LANDMARKS.
   (A)   Recommendations and designations. The City Council shall designate
historic preservation districts and individual landmarks, either from its own
initiative, from the recommendation of the Planning and Zoning Commission, or
upon application of the owners of historic property. These designations shall
be made by ordinance.
   (B)   Public hearing and notice. To begin the designation process, the City
Council shall assemble or cause to be assembled information about the district
or property being considered for designation and shall schedule a public
hearing on the proposed designation. Advertised notice of the hearing shall be
given, including conspicuous posting in the proposed district or on the lot of
the proposed landmark for 15 consecutive days immediately prior to the hearing.
At least 15 days prior to the public hearing, written notice shall be given by
certified mail to the owners of property under consideration and the owners of
all adjoining property. Written notice shall be considered sufficient when it
is mailed to person listed on the tax rolls of the city.
   (C)   Criteria for designation. A historic preservation district or landmark
shall qualify for designation when it meets one or more of the following
criteria which shall be a part of that information assembled or caused to be
assembled by the City Council for the property under consideration:
      (1)   Its character as an established and geographically definable
residential neighborhood, united by culture, architectural styles, or physical
plan and development;
      (2)   Its character as a geographically definable area possessing a
significant concentration of buildings or structures united by past events or
by its plan or physical development;
      (3)   Its value as a reminder of the culture or archeological heritage of
the city, state, or nation;
      (4)   Its location as a site of a significant local, state, or national
event;
      (5)   Its identification with a person or persons who significantly
contributed to the development of the city, state, or nation;
      (6)   Its identification as the work of a master builder, designer, or
architect whose work has influenced the development of the city, state, or
nation;
      (7)   Its value as a building that is recognized for the quality of its
architecture and that retains sufficient elements showing its architectural
significance; or
      (8)   Its distinguishing characteristics of an architectural style
valuable for the study of a period, method of construction, or use of
indigenous materials.
   (D)   Review by the Planning and Zoning Commission. Following the public
hearing and prior to action by the City Council, the proposal shall be
forwarded to the Planning and Zoning Commission for its comments concerning the
appropriateness of the designation proposed. That body shall make its
recommendations to the City Council within 45 days of receipt of the proposal.
   (E)   Action by City Council. A decision shall be made by the City Council
within 60 days of receipt of the recommendation of the Planning and Zoning
Commission.
   (F)   Notification of designation decision. The City Council shall cause the
decision of the City Council to be made known to each owner of property in
question and shall arrange for the filing in the County Clerk’s office of the
designation of a property as a landmark or as part of a historic preservation
district. The Council shall also cause said landmark or historic preservation
district to be so noted on the zoning map of the city and to be a part of the
comprehensive plan.
   (G)   Amendment or rescission of a designation. The amendment or rescission
of any designation shall be accomplished through the same steps as were
followed in the original designation.
(Prior Code, § 155.03) (Ord. 97.12-1, passed 12-22-1997)
§ 155.04 INITIAL DESIGNATION OF DISTRICT, LANDMARK, AND SITES.
   (A)   The following areas and sites are hereby declared to be historic
preservation districts: the downtown business district which is all listed on
the National Register of Historic Places and more specifically, the two block
area from the Clover Creek Bridge to Poplar Street on both sides of West Main
Street. Also included in the Historic Preservation Downtown District are those
buildings immediately on the west side of North Poplar Street as per the map
attached to Ordinance 97.12-1.
   (B)   The following is hereby designated as an historic preservation
landmark or historic preservation building: a house (commonly referred to as
the “steamboat house”) located on West Houston Street currently owned by the
city and Richard F. Hembrey.
(Prior Code, § 155.04) (Ord. 97.12-1, passed 12-22-1997)
§ 155.05 APPROVAL OF CHANGES TO LANDMARKS AND PROPERTY IN HISTORIC PRESERVATION
DISTRICTS.
   (A)   Requirement for certificate of appropriateness.
      (1)   A certificate of appropriateness from the Planning and Zoning
Commission shall be required before a person may undertake the following
actions affecting a landmark or a property in a historic preservation district:
         (a)   Alteration of the exterior part of a building or structure that
is visible to the public;
         (b)   New construction;
         (c)   Demolition; or
         (d)   Relocation.
      (2)   A certificate of appropriateness is required even when the proposed
work does not require a building permit. When seeking a building permit from
city government for a project involving designated property, a person must
submit a certificate of appropriateness approving any of the work listed in
this division (A).
   (B)   Application to the Planning and Zoning Commission. A person shall be
referred to the Commission by the City Clerk-Treasurer when he or she wants to
undertake an exterior alteration visible to the public, new construction,
demolition, or relocation affecting a landmark or a property in a historic
preservation district. The person shall supply the Commission with the
information it requests in order to reach a decision on his or her application
for a certificate of appropriateness. The applicant shall provide, where
applicable, drawings of the proposed work, photographs of the existing building
or site and adjacent properties, and information about the building materials
to be used.
   (C)   Stop work order; injunction. In the event work is being performed
without the required certificate of appropriateness, the city shall issue a
stop work order. All work shall cease on the designated property. No additional
work shall be undertaken as long as such stop work order shall continue in
effect. The Commission shall meet with the owner or tenant to resolve the
problem. The City Attorney may seek in Circuit Court an injunction and any
other appropriate relief in order that the intent of this provision shall be
carried out. The procedures authorized in this division (C) may also be used in
the event work is being performed which is not in accordance with the
certificate of appropriateness issued by the Commission.
   (D)   Action by Commission; notice.
      (1)   The Planning and Zoning Commission shall hold a public hearing on
each certificate of appropriateness within 30 days after a completed
application is received by the Commission. The Commission shall make a decision
on the application within 45 days after the receipt of a completed application,
provided that the Commission may extend the time for decision an additional 60
days when the application is for a demolition or new construction. The
Commission shall approve or disapprove each application, and it shall give its
reasons for its decision using the criteria contained in this section and in
its guidelines. The Commission may suggest modifications to an application and
may then approve a certificate of appropriateness providing for revisions in
the plans submitted. If the Commission fails to decide on an application within
the specified time period, the application shall be deemed approved.
      (2)   Applicants shall be given notice of the public hearings and
meetings relating to their application and shall be informed of the
Commission’s decision. When an application has been approved, the applicant
shall be given a certificate of appropriateness. Advertised notice of the
public hearing shall be given including conspicuous posting on the property for
five consecutive days immediately prior to the hearing. The Commission may
include in its application fee a charge for the cost of giving notice of the
public hearing.
   (E)   Criteria in deciding on applications. In making a decision on an
application, the Commission shall use its guidelines. The Commission shall
consider:
      (1)   The effect of the proposed work on the landmark or the property in
the historic district upon which work is to be done; and
      (2)   The relationship between such work and other adjacent or nearby
buildings and property. In evaluating the effect and the relationship, the
Commission shall consider historical and architectural significance,
architectural style, design, texture, materials, and color. The certificate
from the Commission shall not relieve the applicant from complying with the
requirements of other state and local laws.
   (F)   Consultation with applicants. Before an applicant prepares his or her
plans, he or she may bring a tentative proposal to the Commission for its
comments. The Commission shall be aware of the importance of finding a way to
meet the current needs of the applicant. The Commission shall also recognize
the importance of approving plans that will be reasonable for the applicant to
carry out.
   (G)   Routine alterations; ordinary maintenance.
      (1)   The Commission shall prepare a list of routine alterations that
shall receive immediate approval from the chairperson or vice-chairperson of
the Commission without a public hearing, when an applicant complies with the
specifications of the Commission. The list shall include paint colors
appropriate for different types of buildings. At each meeting, the Commission
shall be informed of the certificate of appropriateness that have been issued
under the provision.
      (2)   Ordinary repairs and maintenance may be undertaken without a
certificate of appropriateness, provided this work on a landmark or a property
in a historic district does not change its exterior appearance that is visible
to the public. Every person in charge of a landmark or a property in a historic
district shall keep in good repair:
         (a)   All of the exterior portions of such buildings or structures;
and
         (b)   1.   All interior portions thereof which, if not so maintained,
may cause such buildings or structures to deteriorate or become damaged or
otherwise to fall into a state of disrepair. The purpose of this provision is
to prevent a person from forcing the demolition of his or her building by
neglecting it and by permitting damage to the building because of weather or
vandalism.
            2.   No provision in this chapter shall be interpreted to require
an owner or tenant to undertake an alteration or to restore his or her building
to its original appearance. The provisions of this section shall be in addition
to the provisions of the Kentucky Building Code requiring buildings and
structures to be kept in good repair.
   (H)   Emergency situation.
      (1)   When a property is damaged by fire, a storm, or other unexpected
event, the owner or tenant may receive approval from the chairperson or vice-
chairperson of the Commission for work to be done in response to this
emergency. At its next meeting, the Commission shall be informed of the
certificate of appropriateness that was issued. In situations requiring
temporary action, an owner may do work in order to protect temporarily his or
her property from further damage provided he or she reports this work to the
Commission within two business days.
      (2)   In any case where the city determines that there are emergency
conditions dangerous to life, health, or property affecting a landmark or a
property in a historic district, the city may order the remedying of these
conditions without the approval of the Commission. When it is possible, the
city shall consult with the chairperson or vice-chairperson of the Commission
about the action being taken. If consultation is not possible, the city shall
notify the Commission of the action taken after the completion of the work.
   (I)   Demolition of a landmark or a building in a historic preservation
district. When an applicant wishes to demolish a landmark or a building or
structure in a historic preservation district, the Commission shall negotiate
with the applicant to see if an alternative to demolition can be found. The
Commission may ask interested individuals and organizations for assistance in
seeking an alternative to demolition and in obtaining estimates on
rehabilitation costs for the threatened building. After its public hearing, the
Commission may decide that a building or structure in a historic preservation
district may be demolished because it does not contribute to the historic
district. On all other demolition applications, the Commission shall study the
question of economic hardship for the applicant and shall determine whether the
landmark or property in the historic district can be put to reasonable
beneficial use without the approval of the demolition application. In the case
of an income-producing building, the Commission shall also determine whether
the applicant can obtain a reasonable return from his or her building. The
Commission may ask applicants for additional information to be used in making
these determinations. If economic hardship or the loss of a reasonable return
is not proved, the Commission shall deny the demolition application unless the
Commission finds grounds to grant the demolition application under the points
contained in division (E) above.
   (J)   Moving a landmark or a building or structure in a historic
preservation district. When an applicant wishes to move a landmark or a
building or structure in a historic district or when an applicant wishes to
move a building or structure to a lot containing a landmark or to a property in
a historic district, the Commission shall consider:
      (1)   The contribution the building or structure makes to its present
setting;
      (2)   Whether there are definite plans for the site to be vacated;
      (3)   Whether the building or structure can be moved without significant
damage to its physical integrity; and
      (4)   The compatibility of the building or structure to its proposed site
and adjacent properties. These considerations shall be in addition to the
points contained in division (E) above.
   (K)   Length of validity of certificate of appropriateness. A certificate of
appropriateness shall remain valid for one year after it is issued. Work is
required to start before the end of the one-year period. If the approved work
has not been completed within two years after the certificate of
appropriateness was issued, the Commission shall review the situation and may
require an application for a certificate of appropriateness for the work that
remains to be done.
   (L)   Appeal of Commission’s decision. The applicant shall have a right to
appeal to the City Council from a decision of the Commission on an application
for a certificate of appropriateness.
(Prior Code, § 155.05) (Ord. 97.12-1, passed 12-22-1997)
§ 155.06 CONFORMITY WITH CERTIFICATE OF APPROPRIATENESS.
   All work performed pursuant to a certificate of appropriateness shall
conform to the provisions of such certificate. It shall be the responsibility
of the Building Inspector and the Planning and Zoning Commission to inspect
from time to time any work being performed to assure such compliance. In the
event work is being performed which is not in accordance with such certificate,
the city shall issue a stop work order. All work shall cease in the designated
property. No additional work shall be undertaken as long as such stop work
order shall continue in effect. The Commission shall meet with the owner or
tenant to resolve the problem. The City Attorney may seek in Circuit Court an
injunction and any other appropriate relief in order that the intent of this
chapter shall be carried out.
(Prior Code, § 155.06) (Ord. 97.12-1, passed 12-22-1997)
§ 155.07 SIGNAGE.
   (A)   Number and size of signs. The number, size, height, appearance, and
location of signs in the historic preservation district of the city shall be
controlled by the Planning and Zoning Commission through their regular review
process. It is widely a consensus that the people of the city are proud of
their community, and should take pride, continually striving to make the city
an even better environment in which to live. Therefore, good design, good
proportion, appropriate colors, and compatibility with the surroundings are all
factors which enhance the environment. With a better understanding of these
factors, this chapter will address some very specific and significant changes
in applying signage in the downtown area.
   (B)   Signs not approved. Any sign not previously approved by the Planning
and Zoning Commission will be considered nonconforming as of the enactment of
this chapter until found to be appropriate by subsequent action of the
Commission.
   (C)   Definitions. For the purpose if this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      AWNING SIGN. A sign painted on or printed on, or attached flat against,
the surface of an awning.
      MOBILE OR PORTABLE SIGN. Any sign which is affixed to a frame having
wheels or capable of being carried, or otherwise portable, does not have a
permanent foundation, cannot withstand stress and wind loads, and are designed
to stand free from a building or other structure.
      POLITICAL SIGN. A temporary sign supporting the candidacy for office or
urging action on any other matter on the ballot of the state, local, or
national election or referendum.
      SANDWICH BOARD SIGN. A freestanding sign constructed of wood containing
no plastic attachments.
      SHINGLE. A sign constructed of wood or metal structurally attached
perpendicular to the face of a building.
      SIGN. An identification, description, illustration, or device which is
affixed to or represented directly or indirectly on a building, structure, or
land and which directs attention to a product, place, activity, institution, or
business.
      WALL SIGNS. Any sign affixed in such a way that its exposed face and sign
area is parallel to the plane of the building to which it is attached.
      WINDOW SIGNS. Signs painted on or attached to, or suspended behind any
window or door that serves as an identification of a business.
   (D)   Special sign regulations. Signs in the historic preservation district
shall conform to the following regulations:
      (1)   Signs may be flat wall signs or may extend out from the front of
the building across the sidewalk, provided, however, that the lowest portion of
said sign must be at least eight feet from the surface of the sidewalk or
grade;
      (2)   Styles of signs will not be restricted;
      (3)   Numbers of colors will not be restricted; however, color selection
should complement but not necessarily match the building in question as well as
other buildings within the block;
      (4)   Lettering styles and combinations shall not be restricted; however,
signs should be professionally done or purchased. Crudely hand-lettered signs
will not be permitted;
      (5)   Any lighted sign shall be so shaded, shielded, or directed that
light intensity or brightness will not be objectionable to surrounding areas;
      (6)   No colored lights shall be used at any location or in any manner so
to be confused with or construed as traffic control devices;
      (7)   Sign brackets shall be constructed of painted wood or pre-finished,
pre-painted metal. Guywires, if needed, shall be as inconspicuous as possible;
      (8)   Signs shall be mounted in such a way as to be firmly anchored for
safety; however, damage to historic buildings should be minimized wherever
possible. (For example, bolts should extend through mortar joints and not
through masonry units); and
      (9)   The size and location of the sign shall not obscure architectural
details or detract from the historical or aesthetic value of the structure.
   (E)   Nonconforming signs.
      (1)   Signs existing at the time of the enactment of this chapter and not
conforming to its provisions shall be regarded as legal nonconforming signs and
may continue to be used if properly repaired and maintained as provided in this
code. However, if repair and maintenance is not maintained, then they shall be
considered to be unlocked from this grandfather clause and they shall be
removed within six months of a notice of violation which shall be issued by the
Planning and Zoning Commission. Removal shall be accomplished by the owner,
agent, or person having beneficial use of the structure or land on which the
signs are located.
      (2)   Nonconforming signs which are structurally altered, relocated, or
replaced shall comply immediately with all provisions of this chapter.
   (F)   Prohibited signs. Prohibited signs are those which:
      (1)   Contain statements, words, or pictures of an obscene, indecent, or
immoral character, such as will offend public morals or decency;
      (2)   Contain or are an imitation of an official traffic sign or signal;
and
      (3)   Are of a size, location, movement, content, coloring, or manner of
illumination which may be confused or construed as a traffic control device or
which hide from view any traffic or street sign or signal.
   (G)   Exemptions. The following types of signs are exempt from all the
provisions of this chapter, except for construction and safety regulations:
      (1)   Signs of a non-commercial nature and in the public interest,
erected by, or on the order of, a public officer in the performance of his or
her public duty, such as safety signs, trespassing signs, traffic signs,
memorial plaque signs, signs of historical interest, and clocks;
      (2)   Holiday lights and decorations with no commercial message;
      (3)   Temporary signs on the public right-of-way announcing or relating
to a campaign, drive, or event of a civic, philanthropic, educational, or
religious organization. These signs shall be removed promptly upon the
conclusion of said event and no later than 30 days;
      (4)   Signs within a ballpark, field, or diamond which indicate
sponsorship of the teams or activities that occur therein; and
      (5)   Small signs, such as window signs, rental signs, room and board
signs, apartment, or house for rent not exceeding four square feet in area.
(Prior Code, § 155.07) (Ord. 97.12-1, passed 12-22-1997) Penalty, see §
155.99
§ 155.08 MATERIALS.
   Inappropriate materials and finishes generally include: interior-grade wood,
unfaced plywood, plastic substrates, and unfinished wood.
(Prior Code, § 155.08) (Ord. 97.12-1, passed 12-22-1997)
§ 155.09 FACADES.
   The following regulations apply.
   (A)   All original brick decoration on upper facades should be preserved and
maintained.
   (B)   Sheet metal elements such as cornices and hood molding should be
regularly maintained and repaired where necessary.
   (C)   Windows on upper floors shall be kept in their original appearance and
configuration. The enclosing or bricking in of windows should not be allowed.
Replacement of windows should be with new frame units to match the original, if
possible.
   (D)   Replacement with baked enamel, aluminum frames, and sash is also
acceptable.
   (E)   The upper facades of commercial buildings should never be covered with
added metal or frame panels.
   (F)   The use of retractable canvas awnings over storefronts is acceptable.
Canvas or acrylic awnings are preferred over fixed metal or wood awnings.
(Prior Code, § 155.09) (Ord. 97.12-1, passed 12-22-1997)
§ 155.10 LEGAL STATUS.
   Provisions of this chapter shall be held as minimum requirements for the
promotion of public health, safety, morals, and the general welfare. Whenever
the regulations of this chapter require a more restrictive use of land, or
impose other higher standards than are required in other chapters or
regulations, private deed restrictions, or private covenants, this chapter
shall govern. However, if the requirements of the other chapters and/or
covenants are more restrictive than established in this chapter, then those
requirements shall govern.
(Prior Code, § 155.10) (Ord. 97.12-1, passed 12-22-1997)
§ 155.11 ZONING CONFLICTS.
   Whenever conflicts shall arise between the provisions established herein,
and the underlying zoning classifications and regulations, it is intended that
the provisions set forth relating to the historic preservation district,
landmark, and landmark site shall take precedence.
(Prior Code, § 155.11) (Ord. 97.12-1, passed 12-22-1997)
§ 155.12 HISTORICAL ZONES H-1 AND H-2.
   (A)   Use provisions for Historical-Commercial Zone H-1. The purpose of the
H-1 Historical-Commercial Zone is to encourage the development, redevelopment,
and the preservation of the city’s historical-commercial area.
      (1)   Principal permitted uses.
         (a)   Any use permitted in C-1 and C-2 zones;
         (b)   Any other use which the Historical and Architectural Review
Commission (hereinafter called HARC) finds, based upon evidence at a public
hearing, would not impair the historical integrity of the Historical-Commercial
Zone.
      (2)   Minimum yard requirements. None.
      (3)   Minimum area requirements. None.
      (4)   Minimum building height. None.
      (5)   Screening requirements. Same as existing.
      (6)   Parking requirements. None.
      (7)   Use requirements. A minimum of 50% of the usable square footage of
the main level of any building contained herein shall be used for business/
commercial purpose.
   (B)   Use provisions for Historical Neighborhood Zone H-2. The purpose of
the H-2 Zone is to encourage the development, redevelopment, and preservation
of the city’s historic neighborhood areas.
      (1)   Principal permitted uses.
         (a)   Any principal use permitted in R-1 and R-2 zones except multi-
family dwellings;
         (b)   Funeral homes;
         (c)   Beauty shops and barbershops;
         (d)   Florist shops;
         (e)   Assembly building of cultural, fraternal, professional, and
labor organizations;
         (f)   Antique shops;
         (g)   Restaurants;
         (h)   Retail establishments, provided they are conducted wholly within
a building except for off-street loading and unloading, and provided further
that product processing is not allowed on the premises;
         (i)   Real estate agencies;
         (j)   Insurance agencies;
         (k)   Dressmaker’s establishment; and
         (l)   Any similar use which the HARC finds, based upon evidence at a
public hearing, that would not impair the historical integrity of the
historical neighborhood zone.
      (2)   Conditionally permitted uses. Lodging houses.
      (3)   Dimensional requirements. 
         (a)   Minimum lot area:
            1.   Single-family dwellings: 4,000 square feet; and
            2.   Two-family dwellings: 4,000 square feet per unit.
         (b)   Minimum side yard: six feet.
         (c)   Minimum front yard: 25 feet.
         (d)   Minimum rear yard: 25 feet.
         (e)   Maximum building height is 35 feet or no higher than two feet
taller than the tallest principal building on either side of the proposed new
construction.
      (4)   Screening requirements. Same as existing. For the purposes of
screening between the H-2 Zone and all adjoining zones, the H-2 Zone shall be
treated as residential property under the appropriate code section.
      (5)   Parking requirements. Same as existing, provided that parking areas
will be placed to the rear of the rear line of the principal structure upon any
lot unless the HARC shall find, upon evidence at a public hearing, that the
waiver of this provision shall only minimally affect the historical integrity
of the neighborhood zone.
      (6)   Waiver of lot requirements. Any lot requirements may be waived by
HARC, upon a finding based on evidence at a public hearing that such waiver
will not impair the historical integrity of the neighborhood zone.
   (C)   Standards for determining historical integrity. The criteria to be
applied in determining the existence of historical integrity as that phrase is
used in this section shall be:
      (1)   That the proposed action is in harmony with the wording and intent
of this section;
      (2)   That the proposed action will be complementary to all conforming
structures within the zone;
      (3)   That the proposed action is in conformity with at least a majority
of the applicable guidelines for exterior features promulgated by the Secretary
of the Interior of the United States in the publication Standards of
Rehabilitation (January 1990 Revision: GPO 230 394), as amended from time to
time, and as set forth in any subsequent edition of this publication. The
proposed action is not addressed in the Standards of Rehabilitation; and
      (4)   That those portions of the affected real estate which are
ordinarily visible from any public roadway within the zone are characteristic
in appearance to architectural styles, materials, and color shown by the
evidence to have been prevalent in the city prior to 1940 or at the date of
original construction of the structure, whichever date is earlier. The proposed
new construction complies with the HARC advisory design guidelines and a
majority of the Secretary Standards of Rehabilitation.
   (D)   Historical and Architectural Review Commission (HARC) established.
There is hereby established a special Board of Adjustments pursuant to KRS
100.217 and 82.026, which shall be known as the Historical and Architectural
Review Commission (HARC), which shall have sole and exclusive jurisdiction as a
Board of Adjustments over the historical zones, landmarks, and landmark sites
within the city.
   (E)   Membership of HARC.
      (1)   The HARC shall consist of five members, each to be appointed by the
Mayor and approved by the City Commission.
      (2)   The term of office of the members shall be three years, except the
terms of two members of the original Commission shall expire within one year.
An appointment to fill a casual vacancy shall be for the unexpired portion of
the term only.
      (3)   Vacancies shall be filled within 60 days.
      (4)   The HARC shall be a highly specialized administrative body. Where
practicable, its membership shall include at least two preservation-related
professional members from the fields of architecture, history, archeology,
architectural history, planning, or related fields; and all members shall have
an interest in historic preservation and a background of historical study.
      (5)   When one or two professional members are not available for
appointment, the Mayor may appoint other persons interested in historic
preservation to serve.
      (6)   When the HARC reviews an issue that is normally evaluated by a
professional member and that field is not represented by HARC, the HARC shall
seek expert advice before rendering its decision.
      (7)   Each member shall complete education credits in compliance with KRS
147A.027. All training must pertain to the work of HARC.
      (8)   No member of the HARC shall vote on any matter that may affect the
property, income, or business interests of that member.
   (F)   Powers and duties of HARC.
      (1)   General powers and duties. The HARC is invested with the following
powers and duties.
         (a)   The HARC shall have all powers and duties applicable to a Board
of Adjustments as provided in this section and by state law, limited, however,
to the landmarks, landmark sites, and the boundaries of the historical zones
within the city.
         (b)   The HARC is authorized and empowered to act as a fact-finding
body and to thereby implement the provisions of this section which require
factual determinations.
         (c)   The HARC is authorized and empowered to grant waivers or
variances from the provisions of this section in those instances where such
waivers or variances are specifically authorized by the provisions hereof.
         (d)   The HARC is authorized and empowered to grant certificates of
appropriateness.
         (e)   The HARC is authorized to coordinate and advise with other
federal, state, and local administrative boards and private foundations within
its area of interest and to make such studies as it may deem appropriate;
provided, however, that in this capacity the subpoena power reposing in it
shall not be utilized.
         (f)   The HARC shall keep such minutes and records as are required of
a Board of Adjustments, and it shall make available for public inspection its
written minutes and a written annual report of its activities, cases,
decisions, special projects, and qualifications of the members. The minutes
shall include the reasons for the decisions made by the HARC.
         (g)   The HARC shall adopt such rules and regulations as it may deem
necessary to carry out its functions under the provisions of this section. Such
rules and regulations shall include rules of procedure, which shall be made
public.
         (h)   The HARC shall hold at least four meetings per year, held at
regular intervals, in a public place advertised in advance and open to the
public. All meetings shall have an agenda that is available before the meeting.
The decisions of the HARC shall be made in a public forum with applicants
notified of the meeting and the decision.
         (i)   The HARC shall conduct a continuing survey of historic buildings
and areas and shall prepare a plan for their preservation. The HARC shall
conduct this work in accordance with the guidelines of the State Historic
Preservation office. The HARC shall use the preservation plan to assist the
city in its overall planning efforts.
         (j)   The HARC shall make recommendations for the designation of local
historic districts, landmarks, and landmark sites.
         (k)   The HARC may adopt additional guidelines for the protection of
historic district, landmarks, and landmark sites.
         (l)   The HARC shall participate in handling the national register
nominations which are delegated to the city under the certified local
government program. In the development of the certified local government
program, the city may ask the HARC to handle other responsibilities that may be
delegated to the city under the National Historic Preservation Act, being 54
U.S.C. §§ 300101 et seq.
         (m)   The HARC shall advise and assist property owners and other
persons and groups concerned with historic preservation and shall undertake
educational programs for the public on historic preservation.
         (n)   The HARC shall receive assistance in the performance of its
responsibilities from a city staff member or a person designated by the city
who shall have expertise in historic preservation or a closely related field.
Other city staff members may be asked to assist the HARC by providing technical
advice or helping in the administration of this section.
      (2)   Designation of historic districts, landmarks, and landmark sites.
         (a)   Consideration of the designation of an historic district or a
landmark and landmark site may be originated by the HARC, or by the filing of
an application for designation by a property owner, any resident of the city,
or any organization in the city. An application shall be filed with the HARC in
such form and accompanied by such information as required by this section and
the rules of the HARC. A person or organization proposing a designation shall
give the HARC the names and addresses of the owners of the affected property
and the owners of all adjoining property and property across the street as
listed on the tax rolls of the city. The HARC shall promptly notify these
owners by certified mail that the property is under consideration for
designation and that a public hearing is being held on the proposed designation
by the HARC. Written notice shall be considered sufficient when it is mailed to
the person at the address listed on the tax rolls of the city or when it is
mailed to the last known address of that person.
         (b)   The HARC shall hold a public hearing on the proposed
designation. The HARC shall give notice of the time, place, and reason for
holding a public hearing thereon by one publication in a newspaper of general
circulation in the city not earlier than 21 days or later than seven days
before the public hearing.
         (c)   An historic district or landmark shall qualify for designation
when it meets one or more of the following criteria, which shall be discussed
in a report by the HARC to the Planning Commission. The purpose of the
designation of a landmark is to encourage the preservation, rehabilitation, and
use of these buildings. Each designation of a landmark shall include the
designation of a landmark site, which shall consist of the land on which the
landmark and related buildings and structures are located, and the land that
provides the grounds or the setting for the landmark. An historic district or
landmark shall be designated because of:
            1.   Its value as a reminder of the cultural or archaeological
heritage of the city, state, or nation;
            2.   Its location as a site of a significant local, state, or
national event;
            3.   Its identification with a person or persons who significantly
contributed to the development of the city, state, or nation;
            4.   Its identification as the work of a master builder, designer,
or architect whose individual work has influenced the development of the city,
state, or nation;
            5.   Its value as a building that is recognized for the quality of
its architecture and that retains sufficient elements showing its architectural
significance;
            6.   Its character as a geographically definable area possessing a
significant concentration of sites, buildings, objects, or structures united by
architectural styles or a plan of physical development; or
            7.   Its character as an established and geographically definable
neighborhood, united by culture or past events.
         (d)   The public hearing of the HARC shall be held within 60 days
after the designation was proposed. The HARC shall then vote on whether the
proposed designation should be recommended for approval or should be
disapproved. After voting to recommend that an application for the
establishment of an historic district or a landmark be approved, the HARC shall
forward its recommendation with its reasons, in writing, to the Planning
Commission.
         (e)   The Planning Commission and the City Commission shall follow the
procedures for the amendment of this section when they vote to approve or
disapprove the designation of an historic district or a landmark. The
comprehensive plan and the zoning map shall be amended before a designation of
an historic district or a landmark shall be approved and shall take effect. The
Planning Commission and the City Commission shall act on a proposed designation
within 120 days after the HARC makes its recommendation. The City Commission
shall not approve the recommendation to designate a landmark site without the
approval of the landowner upon which the landmark is located.
         (f)   The HARC shall notify each owner of the decision relating to the
property and shall arrange that the designation of a property as a landmark or
as a part of an historic district be recorded
in the land records of the county. The HARC shall also give notice of the
decision to the government offices in the city and county, which shall retain
them for future use.
         (g)   The amendment or rescission of any designation shall be
accomplished through the same steps as were followed in the original
designation.
      (3)   Nominations to the National Register of Historic Places.
         (a)   To participate in the certified local government program
established by the National Historic Preservation Amendments Act of 1980, the
city shall initiate all local nominations to the National Register of Historic
Places and shall request the Mayor and the HARC to submit recommendations on
each proposed nomination to the National Register. The Mayor and the HARC shall
obtain comments from the public that shall be included in their National
Register recommendations. Within 60 days of the receipt of a nomination from a
private individual or the initiation of a nomination by the city, the city
shall inform the State Historic Preservation office and the owner of the
property of the two recommendations regarding the eligibility of the property.
If the Mayor and the HARC do not agree, both opinions shall be forwarded in the
city’s report. If both the Mayor and the HARC recommend that a property not be
nominated, the State Historic Preservation office shall inform the property
owner and the State Review Board, and the property will not be nominated unless
an appeal is filed with the state historic preservation officer.
         (b)   If either or both the Mayor and the HARC recommend that a
property should be nominated, the nomination will receive a preliminary review
by the Kentucky Historic Preservation Review Board. The Review Board shall make
a recommendation to the State Historic Preservation Officer, who decides
whether to forward the nomination to the U.S. Secretary of the Interior, who
shall make the decision on listing the property on the National Register. The
Mayor, the HARC, or the property owner may appeal the final decision by the
state historic preservation officer.
   (G)   Certificate of appropriateness required for changes in exterior
appearance. No person shall, without first applying for and obtaining a special
conditional use permit, to be known as a certificate of appropriateness, cause
or permit any of the following changes in exterior appearances of real estate
in which such person has a legal or equitable interest lying within an
historical zone or on a landmark site.
      (1)   Additive changes:
         (a)   Moving any principal or accessory building onto or within any
lot in the zone or on the landmark site;
         (b)   Material change of the exterior appearance of any existing
building by additional reconstruction, alteration, or maintenance, including
change in color, form, or texture of materials; and
         (c)   Construction of any new principal or accessory building, patio,
courtyard, parking lot, swimming pool, basketball court, tennis court, or other
real estate appurtenance.
      (2)   Change by removal:
         (a)   Demolition of any principal or accessory building; and
         (b)   Moving any principal or accessory building from the historical
zone or the landmark site.
      (3)   The term change in exterior appearance, as used in this division
(G), shall apply to alterations or changes which are ordinarily visible from
any public roadway within an historical zone or adjacent to a landmark site,
excluding alleys.
      (4)   The determination of ordinarily visible from the roadway is made by
the Zoning Administrator. Appeals of the Zoning Administrators decision can be
made to HARC in accordance with KRS 100.261.
   (H)   Application for certificate of appropriateness.
      (1)   Before the commencement of any work for which a certificate of
appropriateness is required as hereinbefore provided, an application to the
HARC therefor shall be made by the owner and filed in the office of planning
and zoning.
      (2)   The application shall include, where applicable, a drawing of the
proposed facade and full plans and specifications relating to appearance,
color, texture (of materials), and architectural design of all portions of the
proposed work which, upon completion, will be ordinarily visible from any
public roadway within the zone or adjacent to the landmark site.
   (I)   Informal discussion regarding certificate of appropriateness.
      (1)   Upon the submission of an application for a certificate of
appropriateness, the same shall be placed upon the agenda for the next meeting
of the HARC for which the agenda has not, under the rules of the HARC, been
completed, and the applicant shall be advised by the office of planning and
zoning of the date, time, and place of that meeting.
      (2)   At that meeting, an informal discussion of the application will be
held, and the members of the HARC may make suggestions for alterations of the
proposal to more nearly comply with the terms of this section. Also, at the
initial meeting, the HARC shall set a date, time, and place in the reasonably
near future for a public meeting.
   (J)   Public hearing on certificate of appropriateness.
      (1)   Action by HARC. The HARC shall hold a public hearing on each
application for a certificate of appropriateness submitted to it, after notice
is given in the same manner as for a hearing before the City Planning
Commission. The HARC may:
         (a)   Approve the application;
         (b)   Disapprove the application;
         (c)   Disapprove the application as submitted but approve the same
with such modifications as it may deem necessary to bring it into compliance
with historical integrity; or
         (d)   Defer the decision for a period of no longer than one month and
one week.
      (2)   Time limit; findings of fact.
         (a)   The HARC shall make a decision on each application within 90
days after a completed application is filed, provided that the HARC may vote to
extend its time for decision by an additional 90 days when the application
involves the proposed demolition of a building.
         (b)   The HARC shall make written findings of fact upon which its
decision must rest.
   (K)   Grounds for granting certificates of appropriateness.
      (1)   Additive changes. Certificates of appropriateness pertaining to the
moving of buildings into or within an historical zone or a landmark site,
materially changing appearance, new construction, or changing walls or fences
shall be granted upon application therefor if the HARC finds as fact either:
         (a)   That the proposed addition or improvements will not ordinarily
be visible from any public roadway within the zone or adjacent to the landmark
site; or
         (b)   That a majority of the standards for determining historical
integrity have been met.
      (2)   Changes by removal. Certificates of appropriateness pertaining to
moving buildings from an historical zone or landmark site, demolition of
buildings, or cutting trees shall be granted upon application therefor if the
HARC finds as fact either that:
         (a)   The denial of the proposed action would deprive the landowner of
the reasonable use of the landowner’s land or a fair return of the landowner’s
investment therein; or
         (b)   Those portions of the thing sought to be removed which are
ordinarily visible from any public roadway within the zone or adjacent to the
landmark site do not and cannot, with reasonable restoration efforts, meet the
standards of determining historical integrity set forth in this section.
      (3)   Routine alterations. The following list of routine alterations can
be issued a certificate of appropriateness by the chairperson of HARC without
the necessity of a public hearing. The Zoning Administrator will make the
determination if the alteration is routine and requires a public hearing. If
the proposed change is not listed in this division, then the formal application
process with a public hearing is required. If the chairperson of HARC elects
not to sign the certificate of appropriateness for the routine alteration, then
the application shall be forwarded to the Board and go through the formal
application process with a public hearing.
         (a)   Additive changes.
            1.   New roof of the same style and material; and
            2.   Structures other than buildings, signs or fences.
         (b)   Changes by removal.
            1.   Removing a non-historic feature from a structure which makes
the structure more characteristic of the time period in which it was built.
Examples include but are not limited to siding, storm windows, or other non-
original features. Replacement of these items requires a formal application
with a public hearing;
            2.   Removal of non-historic fences; and
            3.   Cutting or removal of trees that are more than one foot in
diameter measured at a height of one foot; provided, however, that nothing
contained in this section shall be construed to hinder or delay the removal of
trees which create a danger or a hazard to life or property.
         (c)   Repainting. In instances where repainting already painted
surfaces, any change in color shall require a certificate of appropriateness.
Requests to paint an unpainted surface requires the formal application process
with a public hearing.
   (L)   Maintenance and safety standards.
      (1)   Ordinary maintenance and repair permitted. Nothing in this section
shall be construed to prevent the ordinary maintenance or repair of any
exterior of any building or structure within an historic zone or on a landmark
site. The term ORDINARY MAINTENANCE OR REPAIR, as used in this division (L),
shall be deemed to mean any work for which a building permit is not required by
law, where the purpose and effect of such work is to correct any deterioration
or decay of or damage to a structure or any part thereof and to restore the
items using the exact same style and material to its condition prior to the
occurrence of such deterioration, decay, or damage.
      (2)   Maintenance required; correction of defects.
         (a)   All buildings within an historic zone or on a landmark site
shall be maintained to meet the requirements of the Building Code of the city.
         (b)   The HARC shall request a meeting with a property owner when the
owner’s building in an historic district or the owner’s landmark is in poor
repair, and the HARC shall discuss with the owner ways to improve the condition
of the property. After this step, the HARC may request the City Building
Inspector to take action to require correction of defects in any building
designated under this section so that the building shall be preserved in
accordance with the purposes of this section.
      (3)   Enforcement of safety standards. Nothing in this section shall be
construed to prevent the City Building Inspector from enforcing all state
statutes and provisions of this code and any other ordinances of the city
pertaining to the public safety.
   (M)   Appeals. Any person aggrieved by any action of the HARC may appeal the
decision thereof to the Circuit Court in the manner prescribed for appeals from
actions of Board of Adjustments.
(Ord. 2021.05.01, passed 5-17-2021) Penalty, see §
155.99
§ 155.99 PENALTY.
   Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall be assessed
a civil penalty of $250 for each offense. Each day of continued violation shall
constitute a separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 155.99) (Ord. 97.12-1, passed 12-22-1997)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   Table
      
I.   ANNEXATIONS
      
II.   BOND ORDINANCES
      
III.   FRANCHISES
      
IV.   STREET OPENINGS AND CLOSINGS
      
V.   ZONING CHANGES
      
VI.   AGREEMENTS
      
VII.   AD VALOREM TAX RATES
TABLE I: ANNEXATIONS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No.   Date Passed Description
110.1      11-16-1979  Annexing certain property starting at a point where the
                       existing city limits cross McMannaway Road.
                       Annexing certain property starting at a point where the
110.2      11-16-1979  existing city limits cross Clover Creek on the west
                       bank.
110.3      11-16-1979  Annexing certain property starting at a point where the
                       existing city limits cross Slick Creek.
110.31     10-8-1979   Amending Ords. 110.1, 110.2, and 110.3 as to the use and
                       taxation of annexed farm land.
110.32     11-16-1979  Amending Ords. 110.1, 110.2, and 110.3 as to the use and
                       taxation of annexed farm land.
                       Annexing certain property starting at a point where the
110.4      11-16-1981  easternmost boundary of the city limits adjoins Highway
                       60.
                       Annexing certain unincorporated territory in the county
2021.07.01 6-21-2021   adjoining the present boundary line of the city being
                       property located at Former Sand and Gravel, containing
                       47.836 acres.
                       Annexing certain unincorporated territory in the county
2021.07.02 7-19-2021   adjoining the present boundary line of the city being
                       property located at 290 Old Cloverport Holt Road,
                       containing 16.38 acres.
                       Annexing certain unincorporated territory in the County
2021.12.01 12-20-2021  of Breckenridge adjoining the present boundary line of
                       the city, being properly located at 290 Old Cloverport
                       Road, containing 16.38 acres, more or less.
                       Annexing certain unincorporated territory in the County
2022.10.01 11-21-2022  of Breckinridge adjoining the present boundary line of
                       the city, being property located at the former gravel
                       pit area, containing 47.836 acres, more or less.
                      
 
TABLE II: BOND ORDINANCES
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
                     Approving an inducement contract between the city and the
–      4-8-1985    Cloverport Boosters as to the financing of a medical
                     facility at 209 Elm Street through the issuance of $90,000
                     of economic development revenue bonds.
                     Establishment of guidelines and procedures with respect to
–      4-8-1985    the project approved under Ord. passed 4-8-1985 and
                     described immediately above.
                    
 
TABLE III: FRANCHISES
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No.  Date Passed Description
450.2     - -         Regulations and conditions regarding the sale of a 20-
                      year gas franchise.
                      Creating nonexclusive franchises for the construction,
450.4     10-24-1986  operation, and maintenance of cable television (CATV)
                      systems in the city.
450.5     11- -1986   Granting cable television (CATV) non-exclusive franchise
                      to Tele-Media Company of Green River for 20 years.
                      Creating a non-exclusive franchise for the construction,
92-10.1   10-14-1992  installation, operation, and maintenance of an electrical
                      distribution center.
93-9.1  9-15-1993   Regulating franchisee charges for basic cable equipment
                      and services.
                      Creation and sale of franchise for the constructing,
–       - -         transporting, operating, maintaining, and distributing
                      natural gas along the under the public right-of-way in
                      the city.
                     
 
TABLE IV: STREET OPENINGS AND CLOSINGS
Ord.No. Date Passed Description
Ord.No.    Date Passed Description
90-8       8-13-1990   Closing the southernmost end of Locust Street.
91-4       4-8-1991    Closing the southernmost end of Walnut Street.
                       Closing a portion of Clover Street beginning at E. Main
92.3-1     3-9-1992    Street and ending at the intersection of Clover and
                       Front Streets.
                       Closing a portion of Center Street beginning at the
92.7-1     7-20-1992   property of Murl Mingus and continuing to its
                       southernmost end.
2001-04.01 5-22-2001   Closing a portion of 7th Street from Oak Street to
                       Center Street.
2001-04.02 5-22-2001   Closing a portion of 3rd Street from Elm Street to
                       Clover Creek.
–        - -2007     Opening of the following streets:
                     1. Alley from Chestnut Street to Elm Street between Main
                       Street and West Houston Street;
                     2. Alley from Oak Street to Center Street between West
                       Houston Street and Third Street;
                     3. Alley from Sixth Street to Seventh Street between Elm
                       Street and Creek Street;
                     4. Alley form Walnut Street to Franklin Street between
                       Ohio River and West Houston Street;
                     5. Atwood Lane (located in the city limits);
                     6. Brandenburg Street;
                     7. Carson Avenue;
                     8. Center Street;
                     9. Cherry Street;
                     10. Chestnut Street;
                     11. Claridge Street;
                     12. Clover Lane;
                     13. Cloverport Sand and Gravel Road;
                     14. Cottonwood Drive;
                     15. Creek Street;
                     16. Dewey Lane;
                     17. East Front Street;
                     18. East Houston Street;
                     19. East Main Street;
                     20. Eighth Street;
                     21. Elliot Drive;
                     22. Elm Street;
                     23. Ferry Street;
                     24. Fifth Street;
                     25. Fourth Street;
                     26. Franklin Street;
                     27. Hillside Drive;
                     28. Hudson Street;
–                   29. L.M. Basham Road (section located in the city
                       limits);
                     30. Locust Street;
                     31. Lynn Street;
                     32. Maple Street;
                     33. May Irby Lane (section located in the city limits);
                     34. Murray Avenue;
                     35. North Park Street;
                     36. Oak Street;
                     37. Park Street;
                     38. Polk Lane (section located in the city limits);
                     39. Poplar Street;
                     40. Robertson Drive;
                     41. Scott Street;
                     42. Seventh Street;
                     43. Sixth Street;
                     44. South Park Street;
                     45. Terry Lane;
                     46. Third Street;
                     47. Verden Street (section located in the city limits);
                     48. Walnut Street;
                     49. West Front Street;
–                   50. West Houston Street;
                     51. West Main Street; and
                     52. West Street.
2007-10.03 10-15-2007  Closing a portion of Fourth Street from Elm Street to
                       Poplar Street.
2009.08-01 8-17-2009   Opening of RV Avenue and Boat Ramp Drive.
2010-03.03 3-17-2010   Closing part of Walnut Street.
2010-07.01 7-19-2010   Closing alleyway between Elm Street and Poplar Street.
2011-11.02 11-28-2011  Closing part of Walnut Street.
2015.01-01 1-19-2015   Closing part of Front Street between Verden Street and
                       Hudson Street.
 
TABLE V: ZONING CHANGES
 
Ord. No.   Date Passed Description
91-1       6-10-1991   Rezoning property located on Highway 60 owned by Kenneth
                       Stiff from R-2 to R-3.
96-02.1    2-26-1996   Rezoning property located on the corner of Third and
                       Chestnut Streets from R-2 to C-1.
2023.06.03 6-19-2023   Rezoning property located at Lots 1-10, 10A, 10E and
                       portions of lots 10-B, 10-C and 11 to C-1.
2023.07.01 7-17-2023   Rezoning property located at 290 Old Cloverport Holt
                       Road to C-1.
                      
 
TABLE VI: AGREEMENTS
 
Ord.  Date   Description
No.   Passed
93-   5-17-  Authorizing execution of the “Interlocal Cooperation Agreement” to establish the
5.3   1993   Kentucky Municipal Risk Management Association.
–   4-20-  Interlocal cooperation agreement with the County Fiscal Court for the
      2015   maintenance of city streets.
–   4-5-   Lease agreement with Dan Alley to lease 215 Center Street.
      2015
–   7-20-  Agreement with Kentucky Transportation Cabinet for the Cloverport SRTA Project.
      2015
Res.  1-16-
2017- 2017   Agreement with the Kentucky Office of Homeland Security (KOHS).
1
            
 
TABLE VII: AD VALOREM TAX RATES
Ord.No. Date Passed Description
Ord.No.    Date Passed Description
93-9.1     9-13-1993   Setting tax rates for FY 1993-1994 on:
                     1. Real property at $0.33 per $100 of assessment;
                     2. Personal property at $0.33 per $100 of assessment;
                       and
                     3. Motor vehicles at $0.33 per $100 of assessment.
94-8.1     8-15-1994   Setting tax rates for FY 1994-1995 on:
                     1. Real property at $0.31 per $100 of assessment;
                     2. Personal property at $0.33 per $100 of assessment;
                       and
                     3. Vehicles and watercraft at $0.33 per $100 of
                       assessment.
95-09.1    9-18-1995   Setting tax rates on:
                     1. Real property at $0.3223; and
                     2. Personal property at $0.33.
96-9.1     9-16-1996   Setting tax rates for FY 1996-1997 on:
                     1. Real property at $0.3223 per $100 of assessment;
                     2. Personal property at $0.33 per $100 of assessment;
                       and
                     3. Vehicles and watercraft at $0.33 per $100 of
                       assessment.
97-08.1    8-25-1997   Setting tax rates on:
                     1. Real property at $0.3223 per $100 of assessment; and
                     2. Personal property at $0.3300 per $100 of assessment.
2007-10.1  10-3-2007   Setting tax rates on:
                     1.Real property at $0.336 per $100 of assessment; and
                     2. Personal property at $0.362 for $100 of assessment.
2008-09.1  9-17-2008   Setting tax rates on:
                     1. Real property at $0.336 per $100 of assessment; and
                     2. Personal property at $0.362 for $100 of assessment.
2009-08.1  8-17-2009   Setting tax rates on:
                     1. Real property at $0.351 per $100 of assessment; and
                     2. Personal property at $0.362 for $100 of assessment.
2010.09-01 9-20-2010   Setting tax rates on:
                     1. Real property at $0.357 per $100 of assessment; and
                     2. Personal property at $0.362 for $100 of assessment.
2011-08.1  8-22-2011   Setting tax rates on:
                     1. Real property at $0.371 per $100 of assessment; and
                     2. Personal property at $0.362 for $100 of assessment.
2012-08.1  8-22-2012   Setting tax rates on:
                     1. Real property at $0.392 per $100 of assessment; and
                     2. Personal property at $0.362 for $100 of assessment.
2015-08.1  8-17-2015   Setting tax rates on:
                     1. Real property at $0.412 per $100 of assessment; and
                     2. Personal property at $0.362 for $100 of assessment.
2016-08.1  10-17-2016  Setting tax rates on:
                     1. Real property at $0.412 per $100 of assessment; and
                     2. Personal property at $0.362 for $100 of assessment.
2018.08.02 8-27-2018   Setting tax rates on:
                     1. Real property at $0.423 per $100 of assessment; and
                     2. Personal property at $0.362 for $100 of assessment.
2019.08.02 8-22-2019   Setting tax rates on:
                     1. Real property at $0.423 per $100 of assessment; and
                     2. Personal property at $0.362 for $100 of assessment.
2020.09.07 9-21-2020   Setting tax rates on:
                     1. Real property at $0.427 per $100 of assessment; and
                     2. Personal property at $0.362 for $100 of assessment.
2022.08.01 8-22-2022   Setting tax rates on:
                     1.   Real property at $0.395 per $100 of assessment; and
                     2.   Personal property at $0.362 for $100 of assessment.
                      
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Kentucky Revised Statutes
References to Prior Code
References to Resolutions
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO KENTUCKY REVISED STATUTES
KRS Section Code Section
KRS Section                              Code Section
6.050                                    32.48
6.955 to 6.975                           33.03
Chapter 18A                              113.02
18A.225(2)                               113.02
41.240(4)                                33.05
                                         33.35,
Chapter 45A                              33.37,
                                         35.15
Chapter 56                               35.15
Chapter 61                               32.21
61.805 et seq.                           39.17
61.805 to 61.850                         35.20
61.805(1)                                35.01
61.805(2)                                35.01
61.805(3)                                35.01
61.805(4)                                35.01
61.805(5)                                35.01
61.810(1)(b), (c), (e), (f)-(h), (j)-(n) 35.15
61.815                                   35.16
61.820                                   35.17,
                                         35.19
                                         35.18,
61.823                                   35.19,
                                         35.31
61.823(2)–(4)                          91.20
61.823(4)                                35.19
61.826                                   35.19
61.840                                   35.19
61.846                                   35.20
61.848                                   35.20
61.870 et seq.                           34.15,
                                         34.22
61.870 through 61.882                    31.31
61.870(1)(a)–(d),(f),(g),(j),(k)       34.01
61.870(1)(a)–(f)                       34.15
61.870(1)(h)                             34.01
61.870(2)                                34.01
61.870(3)                                34.01
61.870(4)                                34.01
61.870(5)                                34.01
61.870(6)                                34.01
61.870(7)                                34.01
61.870(8)                                34.01
61.870(10)                               34.01
61.872(2)                                34.15
61.872(4)                                34.16
61.872(5)                                34.17
61.872(6)                                34.18
61.874(1)                                34.15
61.874(2)                                34.15
61.874(4)                                34.15
61.874(5)                                34.15
61.874(6)                                34.15
61.876                                   34.15
61.876(4)                                34.15
61.878                                   34.01,
                                         34.15
61.878(a)–(d), (f)–(n)               34.22
61.880                                   34.19
61.880(1)                                34.19,
                                         34.22
61.880(2)                                34.19
61.880(5)                                34.19
61.882                                   34.19
61.884                                   34.21
62.020                                   31.01
62.060                                   31.01
Chapter 65                               39.02
65.003                                   39.30
65.120                                   Ch. 72
65.510 et seq.                           36.055
65.510 through 65.650                    36.057
65.870                                   Ch. 136
65.8801 et seq.                          92.06
                                         11.01,
65.8801 to 65.8839                       11.02,
                                         11.14
65.8815(5)                               11.05
Chapter 67C                              36.002
82.026                                   155.12
Chapter 83A                              31.15,
                                         32.02
83A.010(5)                               10.02
83A.010(6)                               10.02
83A.010(7)                               10.02
83A.010(9)                               10.02
83A.010(10)                              10.02
83A.010(11)                              10.02
83A.030(1)                               30.02
83A.040(1),(2),(6)                       31.16
83A.040(3)                               31.15
83A.040(4)                               32.01
83A.040(6)                               32.02
83A.040(7)                               31.16,
                                         32.02
83A.040(8)                               31.16,
                                         32.02
83A.040(9)                               31.03
83A.045                                  31.15
83A.050                                  31.15,
                                         32.01
83A.060                                  31.31
83A.060(1)                               32.35
83A.060(2)                               32.36
83A.060(3)                               32.37
83A.060(4),(7)                           32.38
83A.060(5)                               32.40
83A.060(6)                               32.22
83A.060(8)                               32.41,
                                         32.42
83A.060(9)                               32.43
83A.060(10)                              32.44
83A.060(11)                              32.45
83A.060(12),(13)                         32.46
83A.060(14)                              32.47
83A.060(15)                              32.48
83A.065                                  10.02,
                                         153.999
83A.065(8)                               39.99
83A.070                                  31.02
83A.075                                  31.02
83A.080(1),(2)                           31.30
83A.080(2)                               31.03
83A.080(3),(4)                           31.15
83A.085                                  31.31
83A.130 to 83A.150                       31.16
83A.130(1)                               30.01
83A.130(2)                               30.02
83A.130(3)                               31.16
83A.130(4)                               31.16
83A.130(5)                               32.20
83A.130(6)                               32.39
83A.130(7)                               31.16
83A.130(8)                               31.16
83A.130(9)                               31.16
83A.130(10)                              31.16
83A.130(11)                              32.03,
                                         32.21
83A.130(12)                              32.03
83A.130(13)                              32.03
83A.165                                  31.15
91A.010(6)                               33.01
91A.010(7)                               10.02,
                                         33.01
91A.020                                  33.02
91A.030                                  33.03
91A.040(1)                               33.04
91A.040(4)                               33.04
91A.040(7)(a),(b)                        33.04
91A.040(7)(d)                            33.04
91A.040(8)                               33.04
91A.040(9)                               33.04
91A.040(10)                              33.04
91A.050                                  33.04
91A.060                                  33.05
91A.200                                  33.16
91A.210                                  33.15
91A.220                                  33.16
91A.230                                  33.17
91A.240                                  33.18
91A.250                                  33.19
91A.260                                  33.20
91A.270                                  33.21
91A.280                                  33.22
91A.290                                  33.23
92.310 (Repealed)                        110.04
Chapter 95                               36.002,
                                         36.005
95.951                                   36.002
Chapter 95A                              36.002,
                                         36.005
Chapter 100                              153.002
100.127                                  153.117
100.211                                  153.136
100.217                                  153.117,
                                         155.12
100.237                                  153.117
100.241                                  153.117
100.241 through 100.247                  153.004
100.243                                  153.117
100.251                                  153.117
100.261                                  153.117,
                                         155.12
Chapter 118                              31.15
131.010(6)                               113.03
132.285                                  37.01
Chapter 134                              37.03
134.800                                  37.04
134.810                                  37.04
Chapter 136                              114.01
147A.027                                 155.12
Chapter 154                              34.22
174.100(1)                               91.20
174.100(2)                               91.21
174.100(3)                               91.22
174.100(4)                               91.23
174.100(5)                               91.24
174.100(6)                               91.25
186.020                                  73.05
186.042                                  72.12
186.050                                  73.05
Chapter 189                              73.05
189.010(19)                              70.01
189.020                                  71.37
189.286                                  73.05
189.290                                  71.35
189.330(8)                               71.02
189.338                                  70.15
189.378                                  71.50
189.378(1)                               70.01
189.394                                  71.05,
                                         71.06
189.450(5)-(7)                           72.03
189.456(7)                               72.12
189.580                                  71.20
189.635(8)(b)1.a-e                       34.01
189.700                                  71.65
189.820                                  73.05
189.910                                  71.50
189.920                                  71.50
189.930                                  71.36
189.990(1)                               72.99
189.993(8)                               71.99 
Chapter 198B                             150.03
198B.070                                 150.03
198B.990(1)                              150.99
224.20-720                               73.05
226.010                                  112.01
226.020                                  112.02
226.030                                  112.07
226.040                                  112.03
226.050                                  112.04
226.060                                  112.08
226.070                                  112.03
226.080                                  112.05
226.090                                  112.06
226.100                                  112.08
226.990(1)                               112.99
227.990(1)                               150.99
258.015                                  90.02
Chapter 281                              72.26
304.39-080                               73.05
318.990                                  150.99
Chapter 342                              113.02
376.275(1),(2)                           72.26
376.275(3)                               72.27
                                         32.43,
                                         33.03,
                                         33.19,
Chapter 424                              33.20,
                                         151.41,
                                         153.117,
                                         153.136
424.120                                  33.04
424.190(2)                               33.04
                                         31.31,
424.220                                  33.03,
                                         33.04
424.220(6)(b)                            33.04
446.010                                  90.03
446.010(1)                               10.02
446.010(2)                               10.02
446.010(9)                               10.02
446.010(10)                              10.02
446.010(12)                              10.02
446.010(13)                              10.02
446.010(14)                              10.02
446.010(15)                              10.02
446.010(17)                              10.02
446.010(18)                              10.02
446.010(23)                              10.02
446.010(25)                              10.02
446.010(26)                              10.02
446.010(27)                              10.02
446.010(28)                              10.02
446.010(30)                              10.02
446.010(31)                              10.02
446.010(33)                              10.02
446.010(37)                              10.02
446.010(39)                              10.02
446.010(43)                              10.02
446.010(46)                              10.02
446.010(47)                              10.02
446.010(49)                              10.02
446.020(1)                               10.03
446.020(2)                               10.03
446.030                                  10.04
446.050                                  10.05
446.060                                  10.06
446.080(1)                               10.03
446.080(3)                               10.03
446.080(4)                               10.03
446.090                                  10.07
446.100                                  10.08
446.110                                  10.09
446.140                                  10.01
506.010                                  Ch. 138
506.030                                  Ch. 138
506.040                                  Ch. 138
506.080                                  Ch. 138
506.120                                  Ch. 138
507.020                                  Ch. 130
507.030                                  Ch. 130
507.040                                  Ch. 130
507.050                                  Ch. 130
508.010                                  Ch. 130
508.020                                  Ch. 130
508.025                                  Ch. 130
508.030                                  Ch. 130
508.040                                  Ch. 130
508.050                                  Ch. 130
508.060                                  Ch. 130
508.070                                  Ch. 130
508.080                                  Ch. 130
508.100                                  Ch. 130
508.110                                  Ch. 130
508.120                                  Ch. 130
509.020                                  Ch. 130
509.030                                  Ch. 130
509.040                                  Ch. 130
509.070                                  Ch. 130
509.080                                  Ch. 130
Chapter 510                              140.04
510.040                                  Ch. 137
510.050                                  Ch. 137
510.060                                  Ch. 137
510.070                                  Ch. 137
510.080                                  Ch. 137
510.090                                  Ch. 137
510.100                                  Ch. 137
510.110                                  Ch. 137
510.120                                  Ch. 137
510.130                                  Ch. 137
510.140                                  Ch. 137
510.150                                  Ch. 137
511.020                                  Ch. 132
511.030                                  Ch. 132
511.040                                  Ch. 132
511.050                                  Ch. 132
511.060                                  Ch. 132
511.070                                  Ch. 132
511.080                                  Ch. 132
512.020                                  Ch. 132
512.030                                  Ch. 132
512.040                                  Ch. 132
512.050                                  Ch. 132
512.060                                  Ch. 132
512.070                                  Ch. 132
512.080                                  Ch. 132
513.020                                  Ch. 132
513.030                                  Ch. 132
513.040                                  Ch. 132
513.060                                  Ch. 132
514.030                                  Ch. 132
514.040                                  Ch. 132
514.050                                  Ch. 132
514.060                                  Ch. 132
514.065                                  Ch. 132
514.070                                  Ch. 132
514.080                                  Ch. 132
514.090                                  Ch. 132
514.100                                  Ch. 132
514.110                                  Ch. 132
514.120                                  Ch. 132
514.140                                  Ch. 132
514.150                                  Ch. 132
515.020                                  Ch. 132
515.030                                  Ch. 132
516.020                                  Ch. 132
516.030                                  Ch. 132
516.040                                  Ch. 132
516.050                                  Ch. 132
516.060                                  Ch. 132
516.070                                  Ch. 132
516.090                                  Ch. 132
516.110                                  Ch. 132
516.120                                  Ch. 132
516.130                                  Ch. 132
519.020                                  Ch. 135
519.030                                  Ch. 135
519.040                                  Ch. 135,
                                         139.03
519.050                                  Ch. 135
519.060                                  Ch. 135
520.020                                  Ch. 135
520.030                                  Ch. 135
520.040                                  Ch. 135
520.050                                  Ch. 135
520.060                                  Ch. 135
520.070                                  Ch. 135
520.080                                  Ch. 135
520.090                                  Ch. 135
520.100                                  Ch. 135
520.120                                  Ch. 135
520.130                                  Ch. 135
521.020                                  Ch. 135
521.030                                  Ch. 135
521.040                                  Ch. 135
522.020                                  Ch. 135
522.030                                  Ch. 135
522.040                                  Ch. 135
523.020                                  Ch. 135
523.030                                  Ch. 135
523.040                                  Ch. 135
523.100                                  Ch. 135
524.020                                  Ch. 135
524.030                                  Ch. 135
524.040                                  Ch. 135
524.050                                  Ch. 135
524.055                                  Ch. 135
524.060                                  Ch. 135
524.070                                  Ch. 135
524.090                                  Ch. 135
524.100                                  Ch. 135
524.110                                  Ch. 135
524.130                                  Ch. 135
525.020                                  Ch. 136
525.030                                  Ch. 136
525.040                                  Ch. 136
525.050                                  Ch. 136
525.060                                  32.99,
                                         Ch. 136
525.070                                  Ch. 136
525.080                                  Ch. 136
525.090                                  Ch. 136
525.100                                  Ch. 136
525.105                                  Ch. 136
525.110                                  Ch. 136
525.120                                  Ch. 136
525.125                                  Ch. 136
525.130                                  Ch. 136
525.140                                  Ch. 136
525.150                                  Ch. 136
525.160                                  Ch. 136
526.020                                  Ch. 136
526.030                                  Ch. 136
526.040                                  Ch. 136
526.050                                  Ch. 136
526.060                                  Ch. 136
528.020                                  Ch. 134
528.030                                  Ch. 134
528.040                                  Ch. 134
528.050                                  Ch. 134
528.060                                  Ch. 134
528.070                                  Ch. 134
528.080                                  Ch. 134
528.110                                  Ch. 134
528.120                                  Ch. 134
529.020                                  Ch. 133
529.040                                  Ch. 133
529.070                                  Ch. 133
529.080                                  Ch. 133
530.010                                  Ch. 131
530.020                                  Ch. 131,
                                         140.04
530.030                                  Ch. 131
530.040                                  Ch. 131
530.050                                  Ch. 131
530.060                                  Ch. 131
530.064                                  Ch. 131,
                                         140.04
530.065                                  Ch. 131
530.070                                  Ch. 131
530.080                                  Ch. 131
531.020                                  Ch. 133
531.030                                  Ch. 133
531.040                                  Ch. 133
531.050                                  Ch. 133
531.060                                  Ch. 133
531.310                                  Ch. 133,
                                         140.04
531.320                                  Ch. 133
531.340                                  Ch. 133
531.350                                  Ch. 133
531.360                                  Ch. 133
531.370                                  Ch. 133
532.060                                  140.04
532.070                                  140.04
532.090                                  140.02
532.090(1)                               10.02
534.030                                  140.03
534.040                                  140.01
534.040(2)(a)                            10.02
534.040(2)(c)                            10.02
                                         
 
REFERENCES TO PRIOR CODE
 
Prior Code Section Code Section
Prior Code Section Code Section
10.01              10.01
10.02              10.02
10.03              10.03
10.04              10.04
10.05              10.05
10.06              10.06
10.07              10.07
10.08              10.08
10.09              10.09
10.10              10.10
10.11              10.11
10.12              10.12
10.13              10.13
10.14              10.14
10.15              10.15
10.16              10.16
10.17              10.17
10.99              10.99
30.01              30.01
30.02              30.02
31.01              31.01
31.02              31.02
31.03              31.03
31.20              31.15
31.21              31.16
31.22              31.17
31.35              31.30
31.36              31.31
31.50              31.45
32.01              32.01
32.02              32.02
32.03              32.03
32.20              32.20
32.21              32.21
32.22              32.22
32.23              32.23,
                   32.99
32.35              32.35
32.36              32.36
32.37              32.37
32.38              32.38
32.39              32.39
32.40              32.40
32.41              32.41
32.42              32.42
32.43              32.43
32.44              32.44
32.45              32.45
32.46              32.46
32.47              32.47
32.48              32.48
33.01              33.01
33.02              33.02
33.03              33.03
33.04              33.04
33.05              33.05
33.10              33.15
33.11              33.16
33.12              33.17
33.13              33.19
33.14              33.19
33.15              33.20
33.16              33.23
33.17              33.23
33.18              33.23
33.30              33.35
33.31              33.36
33.32              33.37
33.33              33.38
34.01              34.01
34.05              34.15
34.06              34.16
34.07              34.17
34.08              34.18
34.09              34.19
34.10              34.20
34.12              34.22
34.21              34.21
34A.01             35.01
34A.05             35.15
34A.06             35.16
34A.07             35.17
34A.08             35.18
34A.09             35.19
34A.10             35.20
35.01              36.001
35.02              36.002
35.03              36.003
35.04              36.004
35.05              36.005
35.06              36.006
35.07              36.007
35.20              36.020
35.21              36.021
35.22              36.022
35.23              36.023
35.24              36.024
35.25              36.025
35.26              36.026
35.27              36.027
35.28              36.028
35.40              36.040
35.50              36.055
35.51              36.056
35.52              36.057
35.70              36.070
35.80              36.085
35.90              36.100
35.91              36.101
35.92              36.102
35.93              36.103
36.01              37.01
36.02              37.02
36.03              37.03
36.04              37.04
36.05              37.05
37.01              38.01
37.02              38.02
38.01              39.01
38.02              39.02
38.03              39.03
38.04              39.04
38.10              39.15
38.11              39.16
38.20              39.30
38.21              39.31,
                   39.99
38.22              39.32
38.23              39.33
38.30              39.45
38.40              39.60
38.41              39.61
38.99              39.99
50.001             50.001
50.002             50.002
50.003             50.003
50.004             50.004
50.005             50.005
50.006             50.006
50.015             50.020
50.016             50.021
50.017             50.022
50.018             50.023
50.019             50.024
50.020             50.025
50.021             50.026
50.022             50.027
50.030             50.040
50.031             50.041
50.032             50.042
50.033             50.043
50.034             50.044
50.035             50.045
50.036             50.046
50.037             50.047
50.038             50.048
50.039             50.049
50.050             50.060
50.051             50.061
50.052             50.062
50.053             50.063
50.065             50.075
50.066             50.076
50.067             50.077
50.068             50.078
50.069             50.079
50.070             50.080
50.071             50.081
50.080             50.095
50.081             50.096
50.090             50.110
50.091             50.111
50.092             50.112
50.093             50.113
50.094             50.114
50.095             50.115
50.096             50.116
51.01              51.01
51.02              51.02
51.03              51.03
51.04              51.04
51.05              51.05
51.06              51.06
51.99              51.99
70.01              70.01
70.02              70.02
70.03              70.03
70.04              70.04
70.05              70.05
70.15              70.15
70.16              70.16
70.17              70.17
70.18              70.18 
70.19              70.19 
70.20              70.20 
70.21              70.21
70.35              70.35
70.36              70.36
70.37              70.37
70.38              70.38
70.39              70.39
70.40              70.40
70.99              70.99
71.01              71.01
71.02              71.02
71.03              71.03
71.04              71.04
71.05              71.05
71.06              71.06
71.15              71.20
71.16              71.21
71.25              71.35
71.26              71.36
71.27              71.37
71.30              71.50
71.40              71.65
71.41              71.66
71.42              71.67
71.43              71.68
71.44              71.69
71.45              71.70
71.46              71.71
71.47              71.72
71.48              71.73
71.49              71.74
71.50              71.75
71.51              71.76
71.99              71.99
72.01              72.01
72.02              72.02
72.03              72.03
72.04              72.04
72.05              72.05
72.06              72.06
72.07              72.07
72.08              72.08
72.09              72.09
72.10              72.10
72.11              72.11
72.12              72.12
72.13              72.13
72.20              72.25
72.21              72.26
72.22              72.27
72.35              72.40
72.36              72.41
72.37              72.42
72.99              72.99
73.01              73.01
73.02              73.02
73.03              73.03
73.04              73.04
73.99              73.99
90.01              90.01
90.02              90.02
90.03              90.03
90.04              90.04
90.05              90.05
90.15              90.20
90.16              90.21
90.17              90.22
90.18              90.23
90.19              90.24
90.99              90.99
91.01              91.01
91.02              91.02
91.03              91.03
91.04              91.04
91.05              91.05
91.06              91.06
91.15              91.20
91.16              91.21
91.17              91.22
91.18              91.23
91.19              91.24
91.20              91.25
91.30              91.40
91.31              91.41
91.32              91.42
91.33              91.43
91.99              91.99
92.01              92.01
92.02              92.02
92.03              92.03
92.04              92.04
92.05              92.05
92.06              92.06
92.07              92.07
92.99              92.99
93.20              93.20
93.21              93.21
93.99              93.99
94.01              94.01
94.02              94.02
94.03              94.03
94.04              94.04
94.05              94.05
94.06              94.06
94.98              94.07
94.99              94.99
95.01              95.01
95.02              95.02
95.03              95.03
95.99              95.99
110.01             110.01
110.02             110.02
110.03             110.03
110.04             110.04
110.05             110.05
110.06             110.06
110.07             110.07
110.08             110.08
110.09             110.09
110.10             110.10
110.99             110.99
111.01             111.01
111.02             111.02
111.03             111.03
111.04             111.04
111.05             111.05
111.06             111.06
111.07             111.07
111.08             111.08
111.99             111.99
112.01             112.01
112.02             112.02
112.03             112.03
112.04             112.04
112.05             112.05
112.06             112.06
112.07             112.07
112.08             112.08
112.99             112.99
113.01             113.01
113.02             113.02
113.03             113.03
113.04             113.04
114.01             114.01
114.02             114.02
114.03             114.03
114.04             114.04
114.99             114.99
115.01             115.01
115.02             115.02
115.03             115.03
115.04             115.04
115.05             115.05
115.99             115.99
116.01             116.01
116.02             116.02
116.03             116.03
116.04             116.04
116.05             116.05
116.06             116.06
116.07             116.07
116.08             116.08
116.09             116.09
116.10             116.10
116.99             116.99
139.01             139.01,
                   139.99
139.02             139.02
139.03             139.03
139.04             139.04,
                   139.99
140.01             140.01
140.02             140.02
140.03             140.03
140.04             140.04
150.01             150.01
150.02             150.02
150.03             150.03
150.04             150.04
150.99             150.99
151.01             151.01
151.15             151.15
151.16             151.16
151.17             151.17
151.18             151.18
151.19             151.19
151.20             151.20
151.21             151.21
151.22             151.22
151.23             151.23
151.24             151.24
151.25             151.25
151.26             151.26
151.27             151.27
151.28             151.28
151.40             151.40
151.41             151.41
151.99             151.99
152.01             152.01
153.01             153.001
153.01             153.002
153.03             153.003
153.04             153.004
153.15             153.015
153.15             153.016
153.17             153.017
153.18             153.018
153.19             153.019
153.20             153.020
153.21             153.021
153.22             153.022
153.23             153.023
153.24             153.024
153.35             153.040
153.36             153.041
153.37             153.042
153.38             153.043
153.50             153.070
153.51             153.071
153.52             153.072
153.65             153.100
153.66             153.101
153.67             153.102
153.75             153.115
153.76             153.116
153.77             153.117
153.78             153.118
153.79             153.121
153.85             153.135
153.86             153.136
153.87             153.137
153.98             153.999
153.99             153.999
Ch. 153, Appendix  Ch. 153, App. A
154.01             154.01
154.02             154.02
154.03             154.03
154.04             154.04
154.05             154.05
154.06             154.06
154.07             154.07
154.08             154.08
154.09             154.09
154.99             154.99
155.01             155.01
155.02             155.02
155.03             155.03
155.04             155.04
155.05             155.05
155.06             155.06
155.07             155.07
155.08             155.08
155.09             155.09
155.10             155.10
155.11             155.11
155.99             155.99
                   
 
REFERENCES TO RESOLUTIONS
Res. No. Date Passed Code Section
Res. No.   Date Passed Code Section
–        1-14-1980   33.35 -
                       33.38
–        2-25-2010   40.01
2015.04.02 4-20-2015   40.01
2015-01.01 10-19-2015  50.028
2017-1     1-16-2017   TSO VI
2017.10.1  11-20-2017  40.01
                      
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
 
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No.   Date Passed Code Section
–        - -         38.01
–        - -         TSO III
120.2      5-3-1954    32.23,
                       32.99
220.82     - -         113.01 -
                       113.04
320.1      - -         36.001 -
                       36.006
                       36.007,
                       71.06,
340.1      5-3-1954    71.35,
                       72.03,
                       139.02
420.5      - -         110.09
450.2      - -         TSO III
                       70.35 -
520.2      - -         70.38,
                       70.99
–        6-16-1970   36.055 -
                       36.057
540.7      1-2-1978    72.13
220.6      3-12-1979   36.005
110.31     10-8-1979   TSO I
110.1      11-16-1979  TSO I
110.2      11-16-1979  TSO I
110.3      11-16-1979  TSO I
110.32     11-16-1979  TSO I
                       94.01,
                       94.02,
830.5      5-12-1980   94.04 -
                       94.07,
                       94.99
                       153.001 -
                       153.004,
                       153.015 -
                       153.024,
                       153.040 -
                       153.043,
                       153.070 -
920.2      10-30-1980  153.072,
                       153.100 -
                       153.102,
                       153.115 -
                       153.118,
                       153.121,
                       153.135 -
                       153.137,
                       153.999
240.1      6-8-1981    33.03
240.1a     6-8-1981    33.03
110.4      11-16-1981  TSO I
                       50.001 -
                       50.006,
                       50.020 -
                       50.025,
                       50.040 -
610.3      3-16-1982   50.049,
                       50.060 -
                       50.063,
                       50.075,
                       50.095,
                       50.110 -
                       50.115
221.0      8-9-1982    37.01,
                       37.03
–        4-11-1983   70.99
9.83       9-12-1983   50.081
02-84      1-10-1984   36.020 -
                       36.028
620.4      10-8-1984   50.096
84-06      10-8-1984   50.096
–        4-8-1985    TSO II
–        6-10-1985   71.05
–        10-15-1985  50.076 -
                       50.081
                       90.03 -
840.101    3-10-1986   90.05,
                       90.21,
                       90.99
–        10- -1986   150.04
450.4      10-24-1986  TSO III
450.5      11- -1986   TSO III
–        8-8-1988    71.05
31.10      8-22-1988   31.15
–        4-10-1989   50.026,
                       50.079
–        11-20-1989  113.02
90-8       8-13-1990   TSO IV
90.7       10-8-1990   139.04,
                       139.99
91-4       4-8-1991    TSO IV
–        4-8-1991    113.02
91-1       6-10-1991   TSO V
                       50.003,
                       50.020,
                       50.021,
91-11      11-11-1991  50.046,
                       50.047,
                       50.049,
                       50.061
91-11      11-19-1991  50.001
91-12.4    12-11-1991  38.01
91-5       12-11-1991  50.076,
                       50.077
91-12.3    12-11-1991  152.01
92.3-1     3-9-1992    TSO IV
92.3-2     3-9-1992    50.027
92-6.001   6-8-1992    38.02
92.7-1     7-20-1992   TSO IV
92-10.1    10-14-1992  TSO III
92-10.2    10-14-1992  38.01
                       51.01 -
93-1.1     2-8-1993    51.06,
                       51.99
93-5.3     5-17-1993   TSO VI
–        7-12-1993   151.25 
93.08      8-10-1993   51.03
                       37.01,
93-9.1     9-13-1993   TSO III,
                       TSO VII
94.3-1     3-28-1994   70.36,
                       70.38
94.3-3     4-11-1994   50.076,
                       50.077
94.4-1     4-11-1994   51.03
94.3-4     4-11-1994   90.22 -
                       90.24
94-8.1     8-15-1994   37.01,
                       TSO VII
                       39.01 -
                       39.04,
                       39.15,
                       39.30 -
94-10.1    10-17-1994  39.33,
                       39.45,
                       39.60,
                       39.61,
                       39.99
95.5-1     5-15-1995   32.21
                       92.01 -
95.8-1     8-21-1995   92.06,
                       92.99
95-09.1    9-18-1995   TSO VII
95.11-1    10-24-1995  92.07
96-02.1    2-26-1996   TSO V
                       114.01 -
8.96-1     8-19-1996   114.04,
                       114.99
96-9.1     9-16-1996   37.01,
                       TSO VII
                       154.01 -
97-2.1     2-17-1997   154.04,
                       154.99
97-3.1     3-24-1997   32.21
97-06.3    6-23-1997   38.01
97-08.1    8-25-1997   TSO VII
                       155.01 -
97.12-1    12-22-1997  155.11,
                       155.99
99-1.01    2-22-1999   32.21
–        6-19-2000   38.01
–        12-18-2000  36.100 -
                       36.103
2001-04.01 5-22-2001   TSO IV
2001-04.02 5-22-2001   TSO IV
–        6-18-2001   38.01
                       36.001,
–        7-16-2001   36.003,
                       36.004,
                       38.01
–        8-20-2001   51.03
–        8-21-2001   38.01
2003-07.01 7-30-2003   154.01 -
                       154.06
–        6-21-2004   51.03
                       154.02 -
2004-11.01 11-15-2004  154.04,
                       154.07 -
                       154.09
2005.3-1   3-24-2005   50.076,
                       50.077
2005-08.01 8-15-2005   154.02
                       95.01 -
2007-06.01 9-19-2005   95.03,
                       95.99
                       115.01 -
2005-9.2   9-19-2005   115.05,
                       115.99
–        - -2007     TSO IV
2007-04.01 4-16-2007   154.04
                       92.03,
2007-06.02 6-18-2007   92.04,
                       92.06,
                       92.99
2007-10.1  10-3-2007   TSO VII
                       116.01 -
2007-10.02 10-15-2007  116.10,
                       116.99
2007-10.03 10-15-2007  TSO IV
2008-02.01 2-18-2008   38.03
2008-09.1  9-17-2008   TSO VII
2009.08-01 8-17-2009   TSO IV
2009-08.1  8-17-2009   TSO VII
2009-09.01 9-30-2009   154.03
2009-11.02 11-23-2009  50.079
3010-03.02 - -2010     50.076
2010-03.03 3-17-2010   TSO IV
2010-06.01 6-21-2010   115.06
2010-07.01 7-19-2010   TSO IV
2010.09-01 9-20-2010   TSO VII
2011.03-01 3-21-2011   32.21
2011-08.1  8-22-2011   TSO VII
2011-11.02 11-28-2011  TSO IV
2011-11.03 11-28-2011  139.01,
                       139.99
2012-02.01 2-29-2012   139.05,
                       139.99
2012-08.1  8-22-2012   TSO VII
                       90.05,
2011.11-01 9-19-2012   90.06,
                       90.21,
                       90.99
2012-12.01 12-17-2012  50.076
2013-04.01 4-29-2013   154.02
2013-04.02 4-29-2013   110.09
2013.06-01 6-20-2013   32.21
2014-04.01 4-21-2014   92.03,
                       92.99
2015.01-01 1-19-2015   TSO IV
–        4-5-2015    TSO IV
–        4-20-2015   TSO IV
–        4-27-2015   70.36
–        6-15-2015   51.03
2015-06.02 6-19-2015   32.21
–        7-20-2015   TSO VI
2015-08.1  8-17-2015   TSO VII
2016.09.1  9-19-2016   11.01 -
                       11.17
2016.09.2  9-19-2016   73.05
                       93.01,
2016-09.3  9-19-2016   93.02,
                       93.99
2016-08.1  10-17-2016  TSO VII
2017-      1-16-2017   96.02
2017-02.01 2-20-2017   96.01
17.8.1     7-28-2017   38.01
2017-9.1   10-16-2017  38.01
2018.02.01 2-19-2018   51.03
2018.08.02 8-27-2018   TSO VII
2018.08.03 8-27-2018   50.076
2018.08.04 8-27-2018   32.21
2018.08.05 8-27-2018   95.01
2018.08.07 9-10-2018   50.081
2018.11.08 11-19-2018  38.03
2018.11.08 11-29-2018  39.15
2018-12.01 12-17-2018  73.05,
                       73.99
2018-12.02 12-17-2018  96.01
                       39.04,
2019-03.01 3-18-2019   39.17,
                       39.18
2019.08.02 8-22-2019   TSO VII
2020.01.01 1-20-2020   51.03
2020.01.02 2-17-2020   36.021
2020.02.02 2-17-2020   36.021
2020.05.03 5-18-2020   96.01
2020.05.04 5-18-2020   51.04
2020.07.01 7-20-2020   38.01
2020.09.07 9-21-2020   TSO VII
2020.10.08 10-19-2020  92.03,
                       92.04
2020.10.09 10-19-2020  38.01
2021.01.01 1-18-2021   32.21
2021.05.02 5-17-2021   70.36,
                       70.99
2021.05.01 5-17-2021   155.12
2021.07.01 6-21-2021   TSO I
2021-01    6-25-2021   35.30 -
                       35.34
2021.07.02 7-19-2021   TSO I
                       150.01 -
2021-150   - -         150.04,
                       150.99
                       153.001 -
                       153.004,
                       153.015 -
                       153.025,
                       153.040 -
                       153.043,
                       153.055 -
                       153.057,
2021-153   - -         153.070 -
                       153.073,
                       153.085,
                       153.100 -
                       153.102,
                       153.115 -
                       153.121,
                       153.135 -
                       153.137,
                       153.999
2021.12.01 12-20-2021  TSO I
2022.06.01 6-20-2022   92.15 -
                       92.19
2022.08.01 8-22-2022   TSO VII
22.10.02   7-20-2022   38.01
2022.09.01 9-19-2022   50.080
2022.09.02 9-19-2022   50.081
2022.09.03 9-19-2022   50.079
2022.10.01 11-21-2022  TSO I
2023.06.03 6-19-2023   TSO V
2023.07.01 7-17-2023   TSO V
2023.07.02 7-17-2023   50.076
2023.07.03 7-17-2023   50.077
2023.07.04 7-17-2023   70.36
2023.07.05 7-17-2023   154.02
2023.07.06 7-17-2023   32.21
2023.08.02 8-21-2023   90.05
                      
 
