CORYDON, KENTUCKY
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2022 S-27 Supplement contains:
Local legislation current through 2022-02, passed 5-9-22
State legislation current through 2021 Acts
Published by:
American Legal Publishing Corporation
525 Vine Street Suite 310 Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-800-445-5588 www.amlegal.com
CITY OFFICIALS
OF
CORYDON, KENTUCKY
COUNCIL
COUNCILMEMBER KAREN MCGILL CURL
COUNCILMEMBER ELIZABETH FRENCH
COUNCILMEMBER CANDICE RICH
COUNCILMEMBER JAYLA GISH
              
MAYOR         RONDA MOORE SMITH
CITY CLERK    KATIE M. SAUER
CITY ATTORNEY CHRISTOPHER WISCHER
              
 
ADOPTING ORDINANCE
ORDINANCE NO. 10.19
AN ORDINANCE APPROVING, ADOPTING AND ENACTING THE CODIFIED ORDINANCES OF THE
CITY OF CORYDON, KENTUCKY
   WHEREAS, the City of Corydun is authorized by KRS 83A.060(5) to adopt a
codification of local legislation by reference; and
   WHEREAS, the City of Corydon has created a codification of legislation
covering the following subjects:
      Title I         :      General Provisions
      Title III      :      Administration
      Title V         :      Public Works
      Title VII      :      Traffic Code
      Title IX      :      General Regulations
      Title XI      :      Business Regulations
      Title XIII      :      General Offenses
      Title XV       :      Land Usage
      TSO          :      Table of Special Ordinances
   NOW THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY OF CORYDON, KENTUCKY, as follows:
   (1)   That the ordinances of the City of Corydon, Kentucky of a general and
permanent nature, as prepared by the American Legal Publishing Company and
copyrighted 1988 and as attached hereto and made a part of this ordinance as if
fully copied herein, are hereby approved, adopted and enacted as the Code of
Ordinances of the City of Corydon, Kentucky.
   (2)   A copy of the Code of Ordinances, as adopted, shall accompany this
ordinance and shall be made a part of the permanent records of the City
pursuant to KRS 83A.060(5).
   (3)   The Codified Ordinances contain all of the provisions of a general and
permanent nature pertaining to the subjects therein enumerated and embraced.
All prior ordinances and parts of ordinances in force on September 10, 1988
which are incorporated in or pertain to the subjects enumerated and embraced in
this Code of Ordinances are hereby repealed prospectively as of September 10,
1988.
   (4)   The repeal of ordinances as provided in section (3) hereof, however,
shall not affect:
      (a)   Any ordinance of a temporary nature, or any ordinance pertaining to
subjects not enumerated and embraced in the Code of Ordinances;
      (b)   Any offense or act committed or done, or any penalty or forfeiture
incurred, or any contract or right established or accruing before September 10,
1988;
      (c)   Any ordinance or resolution promising or guaranteeing the payment
of money to or by the City, authorizing the issuance of any bonds or notes of
the City, or any other evidence of City indebtedness, or any contract or
obligation assumed by the City;
      (d)   Any right or franchise conferred by any ordinance or resolution to
any person or corporation;
      (e)   Any ordinance levying or imposing taxes, assessments, charges;
      (f)   Any prosecution, suit, or other proceeding pending, or any judgment
rendered on or prior to September 10, 1988; or
      (g)   Any ordinance which may be adopted by this City after September 10,
1988.
   (5)   This Ordinance shall forthwith be published in accordance with KRS
83A.060(9) and shall become effective as of September 10, 1988.
 
August 13, 1988      Passed on 1st reading
September 10, 1988   Adopted on 2nd reading
September 12, 1988   Signed by Mayor
September 14, 1988   Published in full
                                Recorded by Clerk
 
                              C.W. Watson /s/
                              Mayor
 
ATTEST:
Catherine Brown /s/
City Clerk
ORDINANCE NO. 10.20
   AN ORDINANCE ENACTING AND ADOPTING A SUPPLEMENT TO THE CODE OF ORDINANCES OF
THE CITY OF CORYDON, KENTUCKY
   WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati, Ohio has
completed the S-l Supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the City of Corydon,
which supplement contains all ordinances of a general nature enacted since the
prior supplement to the Code of Ordinances of this municipality; and
   WHEREAS, said American Legal Publishing Corporation has recommended the
revision or addition of certain sections of the Code of Ordinances which are
based on or make references to sections of the Kentucky Code; and
   WHEREAS, it is the intent of Council to accept these updated sections in
accordance with the changes of the law of the State of Kentucky;
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the City Council of the City of Corydon,
State of Kentucky:
   Section 1. That the S-l Supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the City of
Corydon, Kentucky as submitted by American Legal Publishing Corporation of
Cincinnati, and as attached hereto, be and the same is hereby adopted by
reference as if set out in its entirety.
   Section 2. That this ordinance shall take effect and be in force from and
after its date of passage.
Passed this 13 day of May, 1989.
                              C.W. Watson /s/
                              Mayor
                              May 13, 1989
ATTEST:
Catherine Brown /s/
City Clerk
ORDINANCE NO. _____
CITY OF CORYDON, KENTUCKY
AN ORDINANCE ENACTING AND ADOPTING A SUPPLEMENT TO THE CODE OF ORDINANCES OF
THE CITY OF CORYDON, KENTUCKY.
   WHEREAS, Burlington Publishing Systems, Florence, Kentucky, has completed
the 1992 S-4 Supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the City of Corydon, which
supplement contains all ordinances of a general nature enacted since the prior
supplement to the Code or Ordinances of this municipality; and
   WHEREAS, said Burlington Publishing Systems has recommended the revision or
addition of certain sections of the Code of Ordinances which are based on or
make references to sections of the Kentucky code; and
   WHEREAS, it is the intent of Council to accept these updated sections in
accordance with the changes of the law of the Commonwealth of Kentucky;
   NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the City Council of the City of Corydon,
Commonwealth of Kentucky:
   SECTION 1. That the 1992 S-4 Supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the
City of Corydon, as submitted by Burlington Publishing Systems, and as attached
hereto, be and the same is hereby adopted by reference as if set out in its
entirety.
   SECTION 2. That this ordinance shall take effect and be in force from and
after its date of passage.
Passed this  18      day of  June     ,  92 .
                        James T. Self
                     Mayor
   Catherine Brown   
City Clerk
ORDINANCE NO. 98.5
   AN ORDINANCE ENACTING AND ADOPTING A SUPPLEMENT TO THE CODE OF ORDINANCES OF
THE CITY OF CORYDON, KENTUCKY.
   WHEREAS, Burlington Publishing Systems, Florence, Kentucky, has completed
the 1998 S-8 Supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the City of Corydon, which
supplement contains all ordinances of a general nature enacted since the prior
supplement to the Code or Ordinances of this municipality; and
   WHEREAS, said Burlington Publishing Systems has recommended the revision or
addition of certain sections of the Code of Ordinances which are based on or
make references to sections of the Kentucky code; and
   WHEREAS, it is the intent of Council to accept these updated sections in
accordance with the changes of the law of the Commonwealth of Kentucky;
   NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the City Council of the City of Corydon,
Commonwealth of Kentucky:
   SECTION 1. That the 1998 S-8 Supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the
City of Corydon, as submitted by Burlington Publishing Systems, and as attached
hereto, be and the same is hereby adopted by reference as if set out in its
entirety.
   SECTION 2. That this ordinance shall take effect and be in force from and
after its date of passage.
Passed this 19th day of November, 1998.
 
                           /s/ James T. Self
                           Mayor
/S/ Catherine Grayer-Brown
City Clerk
ORDINANCE NO. 2001-01
   AN ORDINANCE ENACTING AND ADOPTING A SUPPLEMENT TO THE CODE OF ORDINANCES OF
THE CITY OF CORYDON, KENTUCKY.
   WHEREAS, Burlington Publishing Systems, Florence, Kentucky, has completed
the 2000 S-10 Supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the City of Corydon,
which supplement contains all ordinances of a general nature enacted since the
prior supplement to the Code or Ordinances of this municipality; and
   WHEREAS, said Burlington Publishing Systems has recommended the revision or
addition of certain sections of the Code of Ordinances which are based on or
make references to sections of the Kentucky code; and
   WHEREAS, it is the intent of Council to accept these updated sections in
accordance with the changes of the law of the Commonwealth of Kentucky;
   NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the City Council of the City of Corydon,
Commonwealth of Kentucky:
   SECTION 1. That the 2000 S-10 Supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the
City of Corydon, as submitted by Burlington Publishing Systems, and as attached
hereto, be and the same is hereby adopted by reference as if set out in its
entirety.
   SECTION 2. That this ordinance shall take effect and be in force from and
after its date of passage.
Passed this 6th day of March, 2001.
 
                           /s/ James T. Self
                           Mayor
 
\s\ Crystal Herzik
City Clerk
ORDINANCE NO. 2002-01
   AN ORDINANCE ENACTING AND ADOPTING A SUPPLEMENT TO THE CODE OF ORDINANCES OF
THE CITY OF CORYDON, KENTUCKY.
   WHEREAS, Burlington Publishing Systems, Florence, Kentucky, has completed
the 2001 S-11 Supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the City of Corydon,
which supplement contains all ordinances of a general nature enacted since the
prior supplement to the Code or Ordinances of this municipality; and
   WHEREAS, said Burlington Publishing Systems has recommended the revision or
addition of certain sections of the Code of Ordinances which are based on or
make references to sections of the Kentucky code; and
   WHEREAS, it is the intent of Council to accept these updated sections in
accordance with the changes of the law of the Commonwealth of Kentucky;
   NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the City Council of the City of Corydon,
Commonwealth of Kentucky:
   SECTION 1. That the 2001 S-11 Supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the
City of Corydon, as submitted by Burlington Publishing Systems, and as attached
hereto, be and the same is hereby adopted by reference as if set out in its
entirety.
   SECTION 2. That this ordinance shall take effect and be in force from and
after its date of passage.
Passed this 7th day of March, 2002.
 
                           /s/ James T. Self
                           Mayor
 
\s\ Crystal Herzik
City Clerk
Ordinance 2004-02
   City of Corydon
   AN ORDINANCE ENACTING AND ADOPTING A SUPPLEMENT TO THE CODE OF ORDINANCES OF
THE CITY OF CORYDON, KENTUCKY.
   WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati, Ohio has
completed the 2004 S-13 Supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the City of
Corydon, which supplement contains all ordinances of a general nature enacted
since the prior supplement to the Code of Ordinance of the municipality; and
   WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation has recommended the revision
or addition of certain sections of the Code of Ordinances which are based on or
make references to sections of the Kentucky Revised Statues;
   WHEREAS, it is the intent of Council to accept these updated sections in
accordance with the changes of the law of the Commonwealth of Kentucky;
   NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the City of Corydon;
   SECTION 1. That the 2004 S-13 Supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the
City of Corydon, Kentucky, as submitted by American Legal Publishing
Corporation of Cincinnati, and as attached hereto, be and the same is hereby
adopted by reference as if set out in its entirety.
   SECTION 2. That this ordinance shall take effect and be in force from and
after its date of passage, approval and publication as required by law.
Passed the  3rd  day of  June , 2004.
Passed on First Reading  May 20th, 2004
Adopted on Second Reading  June 3rd, 2004
Signed by Mayor  \s\ Larry G. Thurby
Published in the Paper  June 17th, 2004
Recorded by Clerk June 3rd, 2004
ATTEST:
\S\ Gloria J. Mills
City Clerk
Ordinance 2006.02
   CITY OF CORYDON
   AN ORDINANCE ENACTING AND ADOPTING A SUPPLEMENT TO THE CODE OF ORDINANCES OF
THE CITY OF CORYDON, KENTUCKY.
   WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati, Ohio has
completed the 2005 S-15 Supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the City of
Corydon, which supplement contains all ordinances of a general nature enacted
since the prior supplement to the Code of Ordinance of the municipality; and
   WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation has recommended the revision
or addition of certain sections of the Code of Ordinances which are based on or
make references to sections of the Kentucky Revised Statues;
   WHEREAS, it is the intent of Council to accept these updated sections in
accordance with the changes of the law of the Commonwealth of Kentucky;
   NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the City of Corydon;
   SECTION 1. That the 2005 S-15 Supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the
City of Corydon, Kentucky, as submitted by American Legal Publishing
Corporation of Cincinnati, and as attached hereto, be and the same is hereby
adopted by reference as if set out in its entirety.
   SECTION 2. That this ordinance shall take effect and be in force from and
after its date of passage, approval and publication as required by law.
Passed the  2nd  day of  February , 2006.
Passed on First Reading  January 19, 2006
Adopted on Second Reading  February 2, 2006
Signed by Mayor  \s\ Larry G. Thurby
Published in the Paper  February 10, 2006
Recorded by Clerk February 10, 2006
                                             Larry G. Thurby
                                             Mayor
ATTEST:
\S\ Gloria J. Mills
City Clerk
Ordinance 2011.04
   CITY OF CORYDON
   AN ORDINANCE ENACTING AND ADOPTING A SUPPLEMENT TO THE CODE OF ORDINANCES OF
THE CITY OF CORYDON, KENTUCKY.
   WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati, Ohio has
completed the Supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the City of Corydon,
which supplement contains all ordinances of a general nature enacted since the
prior supplement to the Code of Ordinance of the municipality; and
   WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation has recommended the revision
or addition of certain sections of the Code of Ordinances which are based on or
make references to sections of the Kentucky Revised Statues;
   WHEREAS, it is the intent of Council to accept these updated sections in
accordance with the changes of the law of the Commonwealth of Kentucky;
   NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the City of Corydon;
   SECTION 1. That the Supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the City of
Corydon, Kentucky, as submitted by American Legal Publishing Corporation of
Cincinnati, and as attached hereto, be and the same is hereby adopted by
reference as if set out in its entirety.
   SECTION 2. That this ordinance shall take effect and be in force from and
after its date of passage, approval and publication as required by law.
Passed this  5th  day of  May , 2011.
Passed on First Reading  April 21, 2011
Adopted on Second Reading  May 5, 2011
Signed by Mayor  May 5, 2011
Published by Clerk May 13, 2011
                                                                        
                                          Mayor
 
ATTEST:
\S\ Gloria J. Mills
City Clerk
Ordinance 2020.01
   AN ADOPTING ORDINANCE FOR KENTUCKY CITY SUPPLEMENTS
   TO THE CODE OF ORDINANCE OF THE CITY OF CORYDON, KENTUCKY 2020.01
   WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati, Ohio has
completed the 2019 supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the City of Corydon,
which supplement contains all ordinances of a general nature enacted since the
prior supplement to the Code of Ordinance of this municipality; and
   WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation has recommended the revision
or addition of certain sections of the Code of Ordinances which are based on or
make references to sections of the Kentucky Revised Statues;
   WHEREAS, it is the intent of Council to accept these updated sections in
accordance with the changes of the law of the Commonwealth of Kentucky;
   NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the City of Corydon:
   SECTION 1. That the 2019 supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the City of
Corydon, Kentucky, as submitted by American Legal Publishing Corporation of
Cincinnati, and as attached hereto, be and the same is hereby adopted by
reference as if set out in its entirety.
   SECTION 2. That this ordinance shall take effect and be in force from and
after its date of passage, approval and publication as required by law.
Passed this 21 day of May, 2020.
Passed on First Reading this 16, day of April, 2020
A Motion made by Councilmember Ronda Smith to accept the new Ordinance for
Enacting and Adopting A Supplement to the Code of Ordinance, Ordinance 2020.01.
Second by Councilmember Karen Curl. Voice Vote - All Aye, Oppose - None. The
Motion carried.
Adopted on Second Reading
A Motion made by Councilmember Karen Curl to accept the new Ordinance for
Enacting and Adopting A Supplement to the Code of Ordinance, Ordinance 2020.01.
Second by Councilmember Nathan Grace. Voice Vote - All Aye, Oppose - None. The
Motion carried.
Signed by Mayor May 22, 2020
Published in the Paper June 2, 2020
Recorded by Clerk May 22, 2020
         /S/James T. Self    
          Mayor
ATTEST:
\S\Sharelen Hopewell      May 22, 2020   
City Clerk
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
      Chapter
         
10.   RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
         
11.   CITY STANDARDS
CHAPTER 10: RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
Section
   
10.01   Short titles
   
10.02   Definitions
   
10.03   Rules of construction
   
10.04   Computation of time
   
10.05   Majority may act for all; authorized agent
   
10.06   Writings and signatures
   
10.07   Severability
   
10.08   Revivor
   
10.09   Rights and liabilities accruing before repeal of ordinance
   
10.10   Construction of section references
   
10.11   Ordinances repealed
   
10.12   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.13   Ordinances saved
   
10.14   Amendments to code; amendatory language
   
10.15   Conflicting provisions
   
10.16   Reference to offices
   
10.17   Errors and omissions
   
10.18   Historical and statutory references
 
   
10.99   Penalty
§ 10.01 SHORT TITLES
   (A) All ordinances of a permanent and general nature of the city as revised,
codified, rearranged, renumbered, and consolidated into component codes,
titles, chapters, and sections shall be known and designated as the Corydon
Code, for which designation “codified ordinances” or “code” may be substituted.
Code, title, chapter, and section headings do not constitute any part of the
law as contained in the code. (KRS 446.140)
   (B) All references to codes, titles, chapters, and sections are to such
components of the code unless otherwise specified. Any component code may be
referred to and cited by its name, such as the “traffic code.” Sections may be
referred to and cited by the designation “§” followed by the number, such as “§
10.01.” Headings and captions used in this code other than the title, chapter,
and section numbers, are employed for reference purposes only and shall not be
deemed a part of the text of any section.
§ 10.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this code the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   “ACTION.” Includes all proceedings in any court of this state.
(KRS 446.010(1))
   “AND.” May be read “OR,” and “OR” may be read “AND,” if the sense requires
it.
   “ANIMAL.” Includes every warm-blooded living creature except a human being.
(KRS 446.010(2))
   “AVIS.” The automated vehicle information system established and maintained
by the Transportation Cabinet to collect titling and registration information
on vehicles and boat and information on holders of motor vehicle operator’s
licenses and personal identification cards. (KRS 446.010(55))
   “BUSINESS TRUST.” Includes, except when utilized in KRS Chapter 386, a
“statutory trust” as organized under KRS Chapter 386A. (KRS 446.010(6))
   “CERTIFIED MAIL.” Any method of governmental, commercial, or electronic
delivery that allows a document or package to have proof of:
      (1)   Sending the document or package;
      (2)   The date the document of package was delivered or delivery was
attempted; and
      (3)   The signature of the receipt of the document or package.
(KRS 446.010(8))
   “CITY,” “MUNICIPAL CORPORATION,” or “MUNICIPALITY.” When used in this code
shall denote the City of Corydon irrespective of its population or legal
classification.
   “COMPANY.” May extend and be applied to any corporation, company, person,
partnership, joint stock company, or association.
(KRS 446.010(9))
   “CORPORATION.” May extend and be applied to any corporation, company,
partnership, joint stock company, or association.
(KRS 446.010(10))
   “COUNCIL.” The city legislative body. (KRS 83A.010(5))
   “COUNTY.” Henderson County, Kentucky.
   “CRUELTY.” As applied to animals, includes every act or omission whereby
unjustifiable physical pain, suffering, or death is caused or permitted. (KRS
446.010(12))
   “DIRECTORS.” When applied to corporations, includes managers or trustees.
(KRS 446.010(13))
   “DOMESTIC.” When applied to a corporation, partnership, business trust, or
limited liability, means all those incorporated or formed by authority of this
state. (KRS 446.010(14))
   “DOMESTIC ANIMAL.” Any animal converted to domestic habitat. (KRS 446.010
(15))
   “EXECUTIVE AUTHORITY.” The Mayor. (KRS 83A.010(6))
   “EXECUTIVE ORDER.” An order issued by the Mayor which is binding on the
officers and employees of the city and any governmental agency over which the
city has jurisdiction. (KRS 83A.010(7))
   “FEDERAL.” Refers to the United States. (KRS 446.010(17))
   “FOREIGN.” When applied to a corporation, partnership, limited partnership,
business trust, statutory trust, or limited liability, includes all those
incorporated or formed by authority of any other state. (KRS 446.010(18))
   “KEEPER” or “PROPRIETOR.” Includes all persons, whether acting by themselves
or as a servant, agent, or employee.
   “KRS.” Kentucky Revised Statutes.
   “LAND” or “REAL ESTATE.” Includes lands, tenements, and hereditaments and
all rights thereto and interest therein, other than a chattel interest. (KRS
446.010(23))
   “LEGISLATIVE BODY.” The City Council. (KRS 91A.010(7))
   “LEGISLATIVE BODY MEMBER.” A City Councilman. (KRS 83A.010(8))
   "LIVESTOCK." Cattle, sheep, swine, goats, horses, alpacas, llamas,
buffaloes, or any other animals of the bovine, ovine, porcine, caprine, equine
or camelid species. (KRS 446.010(25))
   “MAY.” The act referred to is permissive. (KRS 446.010(26))
   “MISDEMEANOR.” An offense for which the criminal fine can not exceed the
amount set forth in KRS 534.040(2)(a), or a term of imprisonment not to exceed
the periods set forth in KRS 532.090(1) or both. (KRS 83A.065)
   “MONTH.” Calendar month. (KRS 446.010(27))
   “MUNICIPALITY.” The City of Corydon, Kentucky.
   “OATH.” Includes “AFFIRMATION” in all cases in which an affirmation may be
substituted for an oath. (KRS 446.010(28))
   “PARTNERSHIP.” Includes both general and limited partnerships (KRS 446.010
(30))
   “PEACE OFFICER.” Includes sheriffs, constables, coroners, jailers,
metropolitan correctional officers, marshals, policemen, and other persons with
similar authority to make arrests. (KRS 446.010(31))
   “PERSON.” May extend and be applied to bodies-politic and corporate,
societies, communities, the public generally, individuals, partnerships, and
joint stock companies. (KRS 446.010(33))
   “PERSONAL PROPERTY.” Includes all property except real.
   “PREMISES.” As applied to property, includes land and buildings.
   “PROPERTY.” Includes real, personal, mixed estates and interests.
   “PUBLIC AUTHORITY.” Includes boards of education; the municipal, county,
state, or federal government, its officers or an agency thereof; or any duly
authorized public official.
   “PUBLIC PLACE.” Includes any street, sidewalk, park, cemetery, school yard,
body of water or watercourse, public conveyance, or any other place for the
sale of merchandise, public accommodation, or amusement.
   “REAL PROPERTY.” Includes lands, tenements, and hereditaments.
   “REGISTERED MAIL.” Any governmental, commercial, or electronic method of
delivery that allows a document or package to have:
      (1)   Its chain of custody recorded in an register to enable its location
to be tracked;
      (2)   Insurance available to cover its loss; and
      (3)   The signature of the recipient of the document or package available
to the sender. (KRS 446.010(36))
   “REGULAR ELECTION.” The election in even numbered years at which members of
Congress are elected and the election in odd numbered years at which state
officers are elected.
(KRS 446.010(37))
   “SHALL.” The act referred to is mandatory. (KRS 446.010(39))
   “SWORN.” Includes “AFFIRMED” in all cases in which an affirmation may be
substituted for an oath. (KRS 446.010(43))
   “SIDEWALK.” That portion of the street between the curb line and the
adjacent property line intended for the use of pedestrians.
   “STATE.” The State of Kentucky.
   “STREET.” Includes alleys, avenues, boulevards, lanes, roads, highways,
viaducts, and all other public thoroughfares within the city.
   “SUBCHAPTER.” A division of a chapter, designated in this code by an
underlined heading in the chapter analysis and a capitalized heading in the
body of the chapter, setting apart a group of sections related by the subject
matter of the heading. Not all chapters have subchapters.
   “TENANT” or “OCCUPANT.” As applied to premises, includes any person holding
a written or oral lease, or who actually occupies the whole or any part of such
premises, alone or with others.
   “VACANCY IN OFFICE.” Such as exists when there is an unexpired part of a
term of office without a lawful incumbent therein, or when the person elected
or appointed to an office fails to qualify according to law, or when there has
been no election to fill the office at the time appointed by law; it applies
whether the vacancy is occasioned by death, resignation, removal from the
state, county, city, or district, or otherwise. (KRS 446.010(46))
   “VIOLATE.” Includes failure to comply with. (KRS 446.010(47))
   “YEAR.” Calendar year. (KRS 446.010(49))
§ 10.03 RULES OF CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   Singular includes plural. A word importing the singular number only
may extend and be applied to several persons or things, as well as to one
person or thing, and a word importing the plural number only may extend and be
applied to one person or thing as well as to several persons or things. (KRS
446.020(1))
   (B)   Masculine includes feminine. A word importing the masculine gender
only may extend and be applied to females as well as males. (KRS 446.020(2))
   (C)   Liberal construction. All sections of this code shall be liberally
construed with a view to promote their objects and carry out the intent of
Council. (KRS 446.080(1))
   (D)   Retroactivity. No ordinance shall be construed to be retroactive,
unless expressly so declared. (KRS 446.080(3))
   (E)   Technical terms. All words and phrases shall be construed according to
the common and approved usage of language, but technical words and phrases and
such others as may have acquired a peculiar and appropriate meaning in the law,
shall be construed according to such meaning. (KRS 446.080(4))
§ 10.04 COMPUTATION OF TIME.
   (A)   In computing any period of time prescribed or allowed by order of
court, or by any applicable ordinance or regulation, the day of the act, event,
or default after which the designated period of time begins to run is not to be
included. The last day of the period so computed is to be included, unless it
is a Saturday, a Sunday, a legal holiday, or a day on which the public office
in which a document is required to be filed is actually and legally closed, in
which event the period runs until the end of the next day which is not one of
the days just mentioned. When the period of time prescribed or allowed is less
than seven days, intermediate Saturdays, Sundays, and legal holidays shall be
excluded in the computation.
   (B)   When an ordinance, regulation, or order of court requires an act to be
done either a certain time before an event or a certain time before the day on
which an event occurs, the day of the event shall be excluded in computing the
time. If the day thereby computed on which or by which the act is required to
be done falls on a Saturday, Sunday, legal holiday, or a day on which the
public office in which the act is required to be completed is actually and
legally closed, the act may be done on the next day which is none of the days
just mentioned.
   (C)   If any proceeding is directed by law to take place, or any act is
directed to be done, on a particular day of a month and that day is Sunday, the
proceeding shall take place, or the act shall be done, on the next day that is
not a legal holiday.
(KRS 446.030)
   (D)   In all cases where the law requires any act to be done in a reasonable
time or reasonable notice to be given, such reasonable time or notice shall
mean the time only as may be necessary for the prompt performance of such duty
or compliance with such notice.
§ 10.05 MAJORITY MAY ACT FOR ALL; AUTHORIZED AGENT.
   (A)   Words giving authority to three or more public officers or other
persons shall be construed as giving such authority to a majority of such
officers or other persons. (KRS 446.050)
   (B)   When the law requires an act to be done which may by law as well be
done by an agent as by the principal, such requirement shall be construed to
include such acts when done by an authorized agent.
§ 10.06 WRITINGS AND SIGNATURES.
   (A) When this code requires any writing to be signed by a party thereto, it
shall not be deemed to be signed unless the signature is subscribed at the end
or close of the writing.
   (B) Every writing contemplated by this code shall be in the English
language.
(KRS 446.060)
§ 10.07 SEVERABILITY.
   It shall be considered that it is the intent of Council in enacting any
ordinance, that if any part of the ordinance be held unconstitutional the
remaining parts shall remain in force, unless the ordinance provides otherwise,
or unless the remaining parts are so essentially and inseparably connected with
and dependent upon the unconstitutional part that it is apparent that Council
would not have enacted the remaining parts without the unconstitutional part,
or unless the remaining parts, standing alone, are incomplete and incapable of
being executed in accordance with the intent of Council.
(KRS 446.090)
§ 10.08 REVIVOR.
   (A)   A repealed ordinance without a delayed effective date is revived when
the ordinance that repealed it is repealed by another ordinance enacted at the
same meeting of Council.
   (B)   A repealed ordinance with a delayed effective date is revived by the
enactment of a repealer of the ordinance that repealed it at the same or any
subsequent meeting of Council as long as it takes effect prior to the effective
date of the original repealer.
   (C)   An amended ordinance without a delayed effective date remains
unchanged with respect to an amendment which is repealed at the same meeting of
Council which enacted the amendment.
   (D)   An amended ordinance with a delayed effective date remains unchanged
with respect to that amendment if the ordinance making the amendment is
repealed at the same or at a subsequent meeting of Council as long as the
repealing ordinance takes effect prior to the effective date of the original
amendment.
   (E)   No other action of Council repealing a repealer or an amendment shall
have the effect of reviving the original language of the repealer or amendment
as the case may be.
(KRS 446.100)
§ 10.09 RIGHTS AND LIABILITIES ACCRUING BEFORE REPEAL OF ORDINANCE.
   No new ordinance shall be construed to repeal a former ordinance as to any
offense committed against a former ordinance, nor as to any act done, or
penalty, forfeiture, or punishment incurred, or any right accrued or claim
arising under the former ordinance, or in any way whatever to affect any such
offense or act so committed or done, or any penalty, forfeiture, or punishment
so incurred, or any right accrued or claim arising before the new ordinance
takes effect, except that the proceedings thereafter had shall conform, so far
as practicable, to the laws in force at the time of such proceedings. If any
penalty, forfeiture, or punishment is mitigated by any provision of the new
ordinance, such provision may, by the consent of the party affected, be applied
to any judgment pronounced after the new ordinance takes effect.
(KRS 446.110)
§ 10.10 CONSTRUCTION OF SECTION REFERENCES.
   (A) Wherever in a penalty section reference is made to a violation of a
section or an inclusive group of sections, such reference shall be construed to
mean a violation of any provision of the section or sections included in the
reference.
   (B) References in the code to action taken or authorized under designated
sections of the code include, in every case, action taken or authorized under
the applicable legislative provision which is superseded by this code.
   (C) Whenever in one section reference is made to another section hereof, the
reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified, or renumbered, unless the subject matter be
changed or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
§ 10.11 ORDINANCES REPEALED.
   This code, from and after its effective date, shall contain all of the
provisions of a general nature pertaining to the subjects herein enumerated and
embraced. All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated by this code
shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date of this code of
ordinances.
§ 10.12 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature and all other ordinances
pertaining to subjects not enumerated and embraced in this code of ordinances,
shall remain in full force and effect unless herein repealed expressly or by
necessary implication.
§ 10.13 ORDINANCES SAVED.
   Whenever an ordinance by its nature either authorizes or enables the
Council, or a certain city officer or employee, to make additional ordinances
or regulations for the purpose of carrying out the intent of the ordinance, all
ordinances and regulations of a similar nature serving such purpose effected
prior to the codification and not inconsistent thereto, shall remain in effect
and are saved.
§ 10.14 AMENDMENTS TO CODE; AMENDATORY LANGUAGE.
   (A)   Any chapter, section, or division amended or added to this code by
ordinances passed subsequent to this code may be numbered in accordance with
the numbering system of this code and printed for inclusion herein. Any
chapter, section, or division repealed by subsequent ordinances may be excluded
from this code by omission from reprinted pages. Subsequent ordinances as
printed or omitted shall be prima facie evidence of such subsequent ordinances
until Council shall adopt a new code of ordinances.
   (B)   The method of amendment set forth in § 32.37 should be used by the
city to amend, add, or repeal a chapter, section, or division of this code of
ordinances.
§ 10.15 CONFLICTING PROVISIONS.
   If the provisions of different codes, chapters, or sections of the codified
ordinances conflict with or contravene each other, the provisions bearing the
latest passage date shall prevail. If the conflicting provisions bear the same
passage date, the conflict shall be so construed as to be consistent with the
meaning or legal effect of the questions of the subject matter taken as a
whole.
§ 10.16 REFERENCE TO OFFICES.
   Reference to a public office or officer shall be deemed to apply to any
office, officer, or employee of the city exercising the powers, duties, or
functions contemplated in the provision, irrespective of any transfer of
functions or change in the official title of the functionary.
§ 10.17 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error be discovered consisting of the misspelling of any word
or words, the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention
of the provisions affected, the use of a word or words to which no meaning can
be attached, or the use of a word or words when another word or words was
clearly intended to express the intention, the spelling shall be corrected, and
the word or words supplied, omitted, or substituted as will conform with the
manifest intention, and the provision shall have the same effect as though the
correct words were contained in the text as originally published. No alteration
shall be made or permitted if any question exists regarding the nature or
extent of such error.
§ 10.18 HISTORICAL AND STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A) As histories for the code sections, the specific number and passage date
of the original ordinance, and the most recent three amending ordinances, if
any, are listed following the text of the code section. Example: (Ord. 10,
passed 5-13-60; Am. Ord. 15, passed 1-1-70; Am. Ord. 20, passed 1-1-80; Am.
Ord. 25, passed 1-1-85)
   (B) If a KRS cite is included in the history, this indicates that the text
of the section reads word- for-word the same as the statute. Example: (KRS
83A.090) (Ord. 10, passed 1-17-80; Am. Ord. 20, passed 1-1-85). If a KRS cite
is set forth as a “statutory reference” following the text of the section, this
indicates that the reader should refer to that statute for further information,
Example:
      § 31.10 MAYOR.
         The executive authority of the city shall be vested in and exercised
by the Mayor.
      (Ord. 10, passed 1-1-80)
                          
      Statutory reference:
         For powers and duties of the Mayor, see KRS 83A.130
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   Where an act or omission is prohibited or declared unlawful in this code of
ordinances, and no penalty of fine or imprisonment is otherwise provided, the
offender shall be fined not more than $500 for each offense or violation.
CHAPTER 11: CITY STANDARDS
Section
   
11.01   City boundaries
§ 11.01 CITY BOUNDARIES.
   The city proposes to define as its corporate limits that certain territory
located in Henderson County, Kentucky, as follows: beginning at a point located
at the centerline intersection of Seventh Street and the Illinois Central
Railroad, said point having approximate KY State Plane South Zone Coordinates
(NAD 1929) of x = 1,425,500 and y = 515,793; thence with the centerline of said
railroad in a straight line nearly due north and with a curve to the right to a
point located in the centerline of Johnson Street, said point having
approximate coordinates of x = 1,436,513 and y = 520,051; thence with the
centerline of Johnson Street and continuing with an extension of said
centerline, North 54 degrees 34 minutes 02 seconds West, approximately 2,079
feet to a point in the western line of Dorsey Street, said point having
approximate coordinates of x = 1,434,820 and y = 521,257; thence with the
western line of Dorsey Street in a southerly direction a distance of
approximately 1,250 feet to a point in the northern line of a 20-foot roadway
(said roadway was reserved in Deed Book 181 Page 384 at the Henderson County
Court Clerk's Office), said point having approximate coordinates of x =
1,434,319 and y = 520,048; thence with the northern line of said 20-foot
roadway, North 51 degrees 47 minutes 36 seconds West, 500.00 feet to a point,
said point having approximate coordinates of x = 1,433,926 and y = 520,357;
thence running cross country at a right angle to said 20-foot roadway, South 36
degrees 12 minutes 24 seconds West, approximately 3,625 feet to a point located
at the intersection of an extension of the southern line of the Margaret Brown
property (on record in Deed Book 331 Page 238 through 241 and Deed Book 332
Page 582), the Wilson Hopewell property (on record in Deed Book 189 Page 72)
and the Barbara Suggs property (on record in Deed Book 295 Page 295), said
point having approximate coordinates of x = 1,431,684 and y = 517,508; thence
with said extension and then the southern line of said Brown, Hopewell and
Suggs property, South 53 degrees 20 minutes 44 seconds East, approximately 990
feet to a point in the centerline of Bell Street and in the western line of the
City of Corydon Cemetery property, said point having approximate coordinates of
x = 1,432,478 and y = 516,917; thence with the western line of said Cemetery
property, South 40 degrees 27 minutes 31 seconds West, approximately 355 feet
to a point located at the southwest corner of said Cemetery property, said
point having approximate coordinates of x = 1,432,248 and y = 516,647; thence
with the southern line of said Cemetery property and then with an extension of
said line, South 54 degrees 33 minutes 40 seconds East, 2,750.00 feet to a
point, said point having approximate coordinates of x = 1,434,488 and y =
515,052, thence at a right angle, North 35 degrees 26 minutes 20 seconds East,
approximately 1,214 feet to a point in the centerline of Seventh Street, said
point having approximate coordinates of x = 1,435,192 and y = 516,041; thence
with the centerline of Seventh Street, South 51 degrees 11 minutes 02 seconds
East, approximately 396 feet to the point of beginning.
(Ord. passed 9-9-89)
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
         Chapter
            
30.   MAYOR-COUNCIL PLAN
            
31.   CITY OFFICIALS
            
32.   CITY COUNCIL
            
33.   FINANCE AND REVENUE
            
34.   PUBLIC RECORDS
            
34A.   PUBLIC MEETINGS
            
35.   TAXATION
            
36.   BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS
            
37.   PERSONNEL
            
38.   CODE OF ETHICS
CHAPTER 30: MAYOR-COUNCIL PLAN
Section
   
30.01   Form of government
   
30.02   Governing officers
§ 30.01 FORM OF GOVERNMENT.
   The form of government provided for this city shall be known as the "Mayor-
Council Plan."
(KRS 83A.130 (1) )
§ 30.02 GOVERNING OFFICERS.
   (A) The city shall be governed by an elected executive who shall be called
Mayor and by an elected legislative body which shall be called the City
Council, and by such other officers and employees as are provided for by
statute or city ordinance. (KRS 83A.130 (2))
   (B) The City Council shall be composed of six members. (KRS 83A.030 (1))
CHAPTER 31: CITY OFFICIALS
Section
General Provisions
   
31.01   Oath; bond
   
31.02   Compensation
   
31.03   Removal from office
Elected Officials
   
31.20   Election procedure
   
31.21   Mayor
   
31.22   Councilmembers
Nonelected City Officials
   
31.35   Establishment of nonelected city offices
   
31.36   City Clerk
City Employees
   
31.45   City Attorney
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 31.01 OATH; BOND.
   (A)   Oath. Each officer of the city shall, before entering upon the
discharge of duties of his office, take the following oath: "I do solemnly
swear (or affirm, as the case may be) that I will support the Constitution of
this Commonwealth, and the Constitution of the United States, and be faithful
and true to the Commonwealth of Kentucky, so long as I continue a citizen
thereof, and that I will faithfully execute, to the best of my ability, the
office of ________, according to law; and I do further solemnly swear (or
affirm) that, since the adoption of the present Constitution, I being a citizen
of this United States, have not fought a duel with deadly weapons within this
State, nor out of it, nor have I sent or accepted a challenge to fight a duel
with deadly weapons, nor have I acted as a second in carrying a challenge, nor
aided or assisted any person thus offending, so help me God", as established by
section 228 of the Kentucky Constitution.
   (B)   Certification of Oath. The person administering an oath of office to
an elected officer, shall certify, in writing, that the oath was administered
and the date of its administration. The written certification shall then be
filed in accordance with KRS 62.020.
   (C)   Bond.
      (1)   All officers, officials, and employees of cities, counties, urban-
county governments, charter county governments, a regional wastewater
commission, and special districts who handle public funds in the execution of
their duties shall give a good and sufficient bond to the local governing body
for the faithful and honest performance of his or her duties and as security
for all money coming into that person's hands or under that person's control.
The bond amount shall be based upon the maximum amount of public funds the
officer, official, or employee handles at any given time during a fiscal year
cycle. The local governing body shall pay the cost of the bond.
      (2)   Elected officials who post bond as required by statute, and
employees of their offices covered by a blanket or umbrella bond, shall be
deemed to have complied with division (C)(1) of this section.
(KRS 65.067)
§ 31.02 COMPENSATION.
   (A)   Statutory authorization. The legislature of the state has in Chapter
246 of the Kentucky Constitution, KRS 83A.075 delegated the responsibility of
compensation of Mayors and Council members to the City Council. Therefore, the
City Council does ordain the provisions of this chapter and the rates
established are in conformity with the statutory and regulatory limits for a
city of the sixth class.
   (B)   Findings of fact. The City Council has the authority of setting the
compensation of the City Council members and the Mayor as elected officers. The
elected officer’s compensation shall not be changed after his or her election
or during his term of office. The City Council is currently compensated at the
rate of $360 per year. The City Council is currently compensated at the rate of
$720 per year.
   (C)   Statement of purpose and objective. It is the purpose of the chapter
to promote the involvement of the most qualified of citizenry of the city in
its administration and governance, by encouraging said citizenry to run for the
offices of City Council and Mayor, while providing for changes in compensation
within the statutory limits by adopting the following:
      (1)   The annual compensation of each City Council member shall be
changed to $1,250 per year, effective on January 1, 2023, at the conclusion of
the current City Council’s term.
      (2)   The annual compensation of the Mayor shall be changed to $3,000 per
year, effective on January 1, 2023, after the conclusion of the current Mayoral
term.
(Ord. 2010.02, passed 3-4-10; Am. Ord. 2020-06, passed 1-21-21; Am. Ord. 2022-
02, passed 5-9-22)
____________________
Statutory reference:
   Compensation, see KRS 83A.070 and 83A.075
§ 31.03 REMOVAL FROM OFFICE.
   (A)   Elected officers. Any elected officer, in case of misconduct,
inability, or willful neglect in the performance of the duties of his or her
office, may be removed from office by a unanimous vote of the members of the
City Council exclusive of any member to be removed, who shall not vote in the
deliberation of his or her removal. No elected officer shall be removed without
having been given the right to a full public hearing. The officer, if removed,
has the right to appeal to the circuit court of the county and the appeal shall
be on the record. No officer so removed is eligible to fill the office vacated
before the expiration of the term to which originally elected.
   (B)   Non-elected officers. Non-elected city officers may be removed by the
Mayor at will, unless otherwise provided by state law or ordinance.
____________________
Statutory reference:
   Removal of elected officers, see KRS 83A.040 (9)
   Removal of non-elected officers, see KRS 83A.080 (2)
ELECTED OFFICIALS
§ 31.20 ELECTION PROCEDURE.
   (A)   As authorized by KRS 83A.045(2), the city shall forgo conducting a
nonpartisan primary election for the nomination of candidates to all city
offices, regardless of the number of candidates running for each office, and
require all candidates to file their nomination papers with the Clerk of the
County no earlier than the first Wednesday after the first Monday in November
of the year preceding the year in which the office will appear on the ballot
and no later than the second Tuesday in August before the day fixed by KRS
Chapter 118 for holding a regular election for the office.
(Ord. 96-1, passed 1-3-96)
   (B)   All candidates shall be subject to the requirements and provisions of
KRS Chapter 83A.045(2)(b), in its current form and as may be amended from time
to time.
(Ord. 96-1, passed 1-3-96)
   (C)   The city may change the manner of election of city officers within the
provisions of division (A) of this section by ordinance, except that no change
shall be made earlier than five (5) years from the last change.
   (D)   The city shall pay the costs of city elections only if city elections
are held at a time other than prescribed by law for elections generally.
   (E)   Each appointed and elected city office existing on July 15, 1980,
shall continue until abolished by ordinance, except that the offices of Mayor
and City Councilmembers may not be abolished.
   (F)   No abolition of any elected office shall take effect until expiration
of the term of the current holder of the office.
   (G)   No ordinance abolishing any elected office shall be enacted later than
two hundred forty (240) days preceding the regular election for that office,
except in the event of a vacancy in the office.
   (H)   The city may not create any elected office. Existing elected offices
may be continued under provisions (E), (F), and (G) above, but no existing
elected office may be changed.
____________________
Statutory reference:
   Election of city officers, see KRS 83A.045(2), KRS 83A.050
   Creation, abolishment of city offices, see KRS 83A.080(3), (4)
§ 31.21 MAYOR.
   (A)   Election; term of office. The Mayor of this city shall be elected by
the voters of the city at a regular election. A candidate for Mayor shall be a
resident of the city for not less than one year prior to his or her election.
His or her term of office begins on the first day of January following his
election and shall be for four (4) years and until his successor qualifies. If
a person is elected or appointed as Mayor in response to a vacancy and serves
less than four (4) calendar years, then that period of service shall not be
considered for purposes of re-election a term of office.
(KRS 83A.040(1))
   (B)   Qualifications. The Mayor shall be at least twenty-five (25) years of
age, shall be a qualified voter in the city, and shall reside in the city
throughout his term of office. (KRS 83A.040(1))
   (C)   Vacancy. If a vacancy occurs in the Office of Mayor, Council shall
fill the vacancy within thirty (30) days. If for any reason, any vacancy in the
Office of Mayor is not filled within thirty (30) days after it occurs, the
Governor shall promptly fill the vacancy by appointment of a qualified person
who shall serve for the same period as if otherwise appointed. (KRS 83A.040(2)
(a), (6))
      (1)   When voting to fill a vacancy in the Office of Mayor, a member of
the City Council shall not vote for himself. (KRS 83A.040(2)(c))
      (2)   When voting to fill a vacancy created by the resignation of the
Mayor, the resigning Mayor shall not vote on his successor.
(KRS 83A.040(3))
      (3)   No vacancy by reason of a voluntary resignation in the Office of
Mayor shall occur unless a written resignation which specifies the resignation
date is tendered to the City Council. The resignation shall be effective at the
next regular or special meeting of the City Council occurring after the date
specified in the written letter of resignation.
(KRS 83A.040(7))
      (4)   If a vacancy occurs in the Office of Mayor which is required by law
to be filled temporarily by appointment, the City Council shall immediately
notify in writing both the County Clerk and the Secretary of State of the
vacancy. (KRS 83A.040(8))
      (5)   The City Council shall elect from among its members an individual
to preside over meetings of the City Council during any vacancy in the Office
of the Mayor in accordance with the provisions of KRS 83A.130. (KRS 83A.040(2)
(d))
   (D)   Powers and duties.
      (1)   The executive authority of the city is hereby vested in and shall
be exercised by the Mayor. The Mayor shall enforce the Mayor-Council Plan, city
ordinances and orders, and all applicable statutes. He shall supervise all
departments of city government and the conduct of all city officers and
employees under his jurisdiction and require each department to make reports to
him as required by ordinance or as he deems desirable.
      (2)   The Mayor shall maintain liaison with related units of local
government respecting interlocal contracting and joint activities.
      (3)   The Mayor shall report to the Council and to the public on the
condition and needs of city government as he finds appropriate or as required
by ordinance, but not less than annually. He shall make any recommendations for
actions by the Council he finds in the public interest.
(KRS 83A.130(3))
      (4)   Subject to disapproval of the Council, the Mayor shall promulgate
procedures to insure orderly administration of the functions of city government
and compliance with statutes and ordinances. Upon promulgation or upon revision
or rescission of the procedures, copies shall be filed with the person
responsible for maintaining city records.
(KRS 83A.130(4))
      (5)   Any delegation of the Mayor's power, duties, or responsibilities to
subordinate officers and employees and any expression of his official authority
to fulfill executive functions shall be made by executive order. Executive
orders shall be sequentially numbered by years and kept in a permanent file.
(KRS 83A.130(7))
      (6)   All bonds, notes, contracts, and written obligations of the city
shall be made and executed by the Mayor or his agent designated by executive
order. (KRS 83A.130(8))
      (7)   The Mayor shall be the appointing authority with power to appoint
and remove all city employees, including police officers, except as tenure and
terms of employment are protected by statute, ordinance, or contract and except
for employees of the Council. (KRS 83A.130(9))
      (8)   The Mayor shall provide for the orderly continuation of the
functions of city government at any time he is unable to attend to the duties
of his office by delegating responsibility for any function to be performed, in
accordance with division (D)(5) above. However, the Mayor may not delegate the
responsibility of presiding at meetings of the Council, and the authority to
approve ordinances or promulgate administrative procedures may only be
delegated to an elected officer. With approval of the Council, the Mayor may
rescind any action taken in his absence under this section within 30 days of
such action. If for any reason the disability of the Mayor to attend to his or
her duties persists for 60 consecutive days, the office of Mayor may be
declared vacant by a majority vote of the Council and the provisions of § 31.21
(C) shall apply.
(KRS 83A.130(10))
§ 31.22 COUNCILMEMBERS.
   For provisions concerning City Council, see Chapter 32.
NONELECTED CITY OFFICIALS
§ 31.35 ESTABLISHMENT OF NONELECTED CITY OFFICES.
   (A)   All nonelected city offices shall be created by ordinance which shall
specify:
      (1)   Title of office;
      (2)   Powers and duties of office;
      (3)   Oath of office;
      (4)   Bond, if required; and
      (5)   Compensation.
   (B)   With the exception of the Police Chief and all city police officers,
all nonelected city officers shall be appointed by the Mayor with approval of
City Council. The Police Chief and all city police officers shall be appointed
by the Mayor at will and such appointments need not be approved by City
Council.
   (C)   All nonelected officers may be removed by the Mayor at will unless
otherwise provided by statute or ordinance.
   (D) The following are nonelected city offices:
[Reserved]
                     
Statutory reference:
   Nonelected city offices, see KRS 83A.080(1), (2)
§ 31.36 CITY CLERK.
   (A)   The city hereby establishes the office of the City Clerk.
   (B)   The office of the City Clerk may, by ordinance, be combined with any
other nonelected city office by inclusion of the title and duties of such
office.
   (C)   The duties and responsibilities of the Clerk shall include, but are
not limited to the following:
      (1)   Maintenance and safekeeping of the permanent records of the city;
      (2)   Performance of the duties required of the "official custodian" or
"custodian" pursuant to KRS 61.870 through 61.882;
      (3)   Possession of the seal of the city if used;
      (4)   No later than January 31 of each year, mail or electronically
submit to the Department of Local Government a list containing current city
information including but not limited to the following:
         (a)   The correct name, telephone number, and electronic mail address
of the Mayor, legislative body members, and the correct name, telephone number,
and electronic mail address for the city’s appointed officials or employees who
are serving in the following roles or substantially similar roles as of January
1 of each year:
            1.   City Clerk;
            2.   City Treasurer or Chief Financial Officer;
            3.   City Manager or Administrator;
            4.   City Attorney;
            5.   Human Resources Director;
            6.   Police Chief;
            7.   Fire Chief;
            8.   Public Works Director;
            9.   Risk Manager;
            10.   Information Technology Manager;
            11.   Public Relations or Communications Officer; and
            12.   Planning and Zoning Administrator.
         (b)   The correct name of the city, mailing address for City Hall, and
telephone number of the City Hall; and
         (c)   The name and telephone number of either an elected or appointed
official to serve as a contact person that may be reached during normal
business hours of 8:00 a.m. to 4:30 p.m.;
      (5)   Performance of duties and responsibilities set forth in the City
Personnel system.
      (6)   Performance of all other duties and responsibilities required of
the City Clerk by statute or ordinance. (KRS 83A.085)
   (D)   Compensation shall be based on the salary scale in the Personnel
Policies.
   (E)   No person shall be appointed or act as the City Clerk unless such
person has taken the oath required by § 228 of the Constitution of the
Commonwealth of Kentucky and has provided bond, in the amount of $20,000 with
corporate surety authorized to transact business in Kentucky and conditioned
upon the performance of the duties specified herein.
                
Cross-reference:
   Salary and position description, see City Personnel System
CITY EMPLOYEES
§ 31.45 CITY ATTORNEY.
   (A)   Establishment. There is hereby established the position of City
Attorney.
   (B)   Appointment and qualifications. The Mayor shall appoint a City
Attorney who shall be the general law officer and legal counsel of the city.
The Mayor may remove the City Attorney at will except as otherwise provided by
statute, ordinance, or contract. He shall be an attorney licensed to practice
in the Commonwealth of Kentucky. He shall be chosen solely on the basis of his
legal qualifications, with special emphasis on actual experience in or
knowledge of Kentucky municipal and administrative law. The City Attorney may
also engage in the private practice of law and may hold other public or private
employment.
   (C)   Duties and powers. The City Attorney shall have and exercise all
powers and duties assigned to him by statute, this chapter, and such other
municipal responsibilities delegated from time to time. He shall attend all
meetings of the City Council except those meetings at which his presence is not
specifically requested, shall advise the Mayor, the City Council, and all other
city officers and employees in all legal matters pertaining to their municipal
duties or affecting the interests of the city, shall appear for and defend the
city in all legal actions and administrative proceedings in which the city is a
party or is interested, shall institute legal action for and in behalf of the
city wherever necessary for protection or enforcement of rights or interests of
the city, shall prepare and examine ordinances, resolutions, orders, and legal
instruments as the Council may direct, and generally shall attend to all legal
business of the city.
   (D)   Compensation. The City Attorney shall be compensated pursuant to the
terms of a contract authorized by the City Council.
   (E)   Oath and bond. No person shall be appointed or act as City Attorney
unless such person has taken the oath required by § 228 of the Constitution of
the Commonwealth of Kentucky and has provided a bond, if so required by City
Council, in the sum as established by City Council, with corporate surety
authorized to transact business in Kentucky and conditioned upon the
performance of the duties specified herein.
CHAPTER 32: CITY COUNCIL
Section
General Provisions
   
32.01
   Members; election, qualifications, compensation
   
32.02
   Vacancies
   
32.03
   Powers and duties
Rules of Procedure
   
32.20
   Mayor as Presiding Officer
   
32.21
   Meetings
   
32.22
   Quorum
Ordinances
   
32.35
   One subject; title
   
32.36
   Introduction; enacting clause
   
32.37
   Form of amendment
   
32.38
   Reading requirement; exception for emergency
   
32.39
   Approval, disapproval by Mayor
   
32.40
   Adoption of standard codes by reference
   
32.41
   Official city records
   
32.42
   Indexing and maintenance requirements
   
32.43
   Publication requirements
   
32.44
   Additional requirements for adoption may be established by city
   
32.45
   Periodic review required
   
32.46
   Municipal orders
   
32.47
   Proved by Clerk; received in evidence
   
32.48
   Legislative immunity
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 32.01 MEMBERS; ELECTION, QUALIFICATIONS, COMPENSATION.
   (A)   Election; term of office. Each Councilmember shall be elected at-large
by the voters of the city at a regular election. A candidate for City Council
shall be a resident of the city for not less than one year prior to his or her
election. Terms of office begin on the first day of January following the
election and shall be for two years.
   (B)   Qualifications. A member shall be at least 21 years of age, shall be a
qualified voter in the city, and shall reside in the city throughout his term
of office.
(KRS 83A.040(4))
   (C)   Compensation. For provisions concerning compensation, see §
31.02.
§ 32.02 VACANCIES.
   (A)   Vacancies. If one or more vacancies on Council occur in a way that one
or more members remain seated, the remaining members shall within 30 days fill
the vacancies one at a time, giving each new appointee reasonable notice of his
selection as will enable him to meet and act with the remaining members in
making further appointments until all vacancies are filled. If vacancies occur
in a way that all seats become vacant, the Governor shall appoint qualified
persons to fill the vacancies sufficient to constitute a quorum. Remaining
vacancies are filled as provided in this section.
(KRS 83A.040(5))
      (1)   No vacancy by reason of a voluntary resignation of a member of the
City Council shall occur unless a written resignation which specifies a
resignation date is tendered to the City Council. The resignation shall be
effective at the next regular meeting of the city legislative body.
(KRS 83A.040(7))
      (2)   If a vacancy occurs on the City Council which is required by law to
be filled temporarily by appointment, the City Council shall immediately notify
in writing both the County Clerk and the Secretary of State of the vacancy.
(KRS 83A.040(8))
   (B)   Failure to fill vacancies. If for any reason, any vacancy on Council
is not filled within 30 days after it occurs, the Governor shall promptly fill
the vacancy by appointment of a qualified person who shall serve for the same
period as if otherwise appointed.
(KRS 83A.040(5))
                    
Statutory reference:
   Filling of vacancies for nonpartisan city office, see KRS Chapter 83A
§ 32.03 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   The legislative authority of the city is hereby vested in and shall be
exercised by the elected Council of the city. The Council may not perform any
executive functions except those functions assigned to it by statute.
(KRS 83A.130(11))
   (B)   The Council shall establish all appointive offices and the duties and
responsibilities of those offices and codes, rules, and regulations for the
public health, safety, and welfare.
(KRS 83A.130(12))
   (C)   The Council shall provide, by ordinance, for sufficient revenue to
operate city government and shall appropriate the funds of the city in a budget
which provides for the orderly management of city resources.
(KRS 83A.130(12))
   (D)   The Council may investigate all activities of city government. The
Council may require any city officer or employee to prepare and submit to it
sworn statements regarding the performance of his official duties. Any
statement required by the Council to be submitted or any investigation
undertaken by the Council, if any office, department, or agency under the
jurisdiction of the Mayor is involved, shall not be submitted or undertaken
unless and until written notice of the Council's action is given to the Mayor.
The Mayor may review any statement before submission to the Council and to
appear personally or through his designee on behalf of any department, office,
or agency in the course of any investigation.
(KRS 83A.130 (13))
RULES OF PROCEDURE
§ 32.20 MAYOR AS PRESIDING OFFICER.
   (A)   The Mayor shall preside at meetings of the Council. The Council has
the authority to establish, by ordinance, the manner in which one of its number
may be selected to preside at meetings of the Council in the absence of the
Mayor.
   (B)   The Mayor may participate in Council proceedings, but shall not have a
vote, except that he may cast the deciding vote in case of a tie.
(KRS 83A.130 (5))
Cross-reference:
   Council's responsibility to select one of its own members when there is a
vacancy in the office of Mayor, see §
31.21
§ 32.21 MEETINGS.
   (A)   Regular meetings of the Council shall be held on the third Thursday of
each month at 7:00 p.m. at City Hall. If a quorum is not present at that time,
the meeting will be held the following Tuesday at 7:00 p.m. at City Hall.
(Ord. passed 10-17-89; Am. Ord. passed 2-9-91; Am. Ord. 92-1, passed 1-23-92;
Am. Ord. 2016.04, passed 8-23-16)
   (B)   Special meetings of the Council may be called by the Mayor or upon
written request of the majority of the Council. In the call, the Mayor and
Council shall designate the purpose, time, and place of the special meeting
with sufficient notice for the attendance of Council members and for compliance
with KRS Chapter 61.
   (C)   At a special meeting no business may be considered other than that set
forth in the designation of purpose.
   (D)   The minutes of every meeting shall be signed by the City Clerk and by
the officer presiding at the meeting. (KRS 83A.130 (11))
§ 32.22 QUORUM.
   Unless otherwise provided by statute, a majority of the Council constitutes
a quorum and a vote of a majority of a quorum is sufficient to take action.
(KRS 83A.060 (6))
ORDINANCES
§ 32.35 ONE SUBJECT; TITLE.
   Each ordinance shall embrace only one subject and shall have a title that
clearly states the subject.
(KRS 83A.060 (1))
§ 32.36 INTRODUCTION; ENACTING CLAUSE.
   Each ordinance shall be introduced in writing and shall have an enacting
clause styled "Be it ordained by the City of Corydon."
(KRS 83A.060 (2))
§ 32.37 FORM OF AMENDMENT.
   No ordinance shall be amended by reference to its title only, and ordinances
to amend shall set out in full the amended ordinance or section indicating any
words being added by a single solid line drawn underneath them, and any words
being deleted by a single broken line drawn through them.
(KRS 83A.060 (3))
§ 32.38 READING REQUIREMENT; EXCEPTION FOR EMERGENCY.
   (A) Except as provided in division (B) of this section, no ordinance shall
be enacted until it has been read on two separate days. The reading of an
ordinance may be satisfied by stating the title and reading a summary rather
than the full text.
   (B) In an emergency, upon the affirmative vote of two-thirds of the
membership, the Council may suspend the requirements of a second reading and
publication to provide for an ordinance to become effective by naming and
describing the emergency in the ordinance. Publication requirements of § 32.43
shall be complied with within ten days of the enactment of the emergency
ordinance.
(KRS 83A.060 (4), (7))
§ 32.39 APPROVAL, DISAPPROVAL BY MAYOR.
   (A) All ordinances adopted by the Council shall be submitted to the Mayor
who, within ten days after submission, shall either approve the ordinance by
affixing his signature or disapprove it by returning it to the Council together
with a statement of his objectives.
   (B) No ordinance shall take effect without the Mayor's approval unless he
fails to return it to the legislative body within ten days after receiving it
or unless the Council votes to override the Mayor's veto, upon reconsideration
of the ordinance not later than the second regular meeting following its
return, by the affirmative vote of one more than a majority of its membership.
(KRS 83A.130 (6))
§ 32.40 ADOPTION OF STANDARD CODES BY REFERENCE.
   The Council may adopt the provisions of any local, statewide, or nationally
recognized standard code and codifications of entire bodies of local
legislation by an ordinance that identified the subject matter by title,
source, and date and incorporates the adopted provisions by reference without
setting them out in full, if a copy accompanies the adopting ordinance and is
made a part of the permanent records of the city.
(KRS 83A.060(5))
§ 32.41 OFFICIAL CITY RECORDS.
   (A) Every action of the Council is hereby made a part of the permanent
records of the city and on passage of an ordinance the vote of each member of
the Council shall be entered on the official record of the meeting.
   (B) The Council has provided, under the provisions of §§
31.36(C) and
32.42, for the maintenance and safekeeping of the permanent records of the
city. The City Clerk and the presiding officer shall sign the official record
of each meeting.
(KRS 83A.060(8))
§ 32.42 INDEXING AND MAINTENANCE REQUIREMENTS.
   At the end of each month, all ordinances adopted in the city shall be
indexed and maintained by the City Clerk in the following manner:
   (A) The city budget, appropriations of money, and tax levies shall be
maintained and indexed so that each fiscal year is kept separate from other
years.
   (B) All other city ordinances shall be kept in the minute book or an
ordinance book in the order adopted and maintained in this code of ordinances.
(KRS 83A.060(8))
§ 32.43 PUBLICATION REQUIREMENTS.
   (A) Except as provided in §
32.38(B), no ordinance shall be enforceable until published pursuant to KRS
Chapter 424.
   (B) Ordinances may be published in full or in summary as designated by the
Council.
   (C) The requirements for summary publication may be satisfied by publication
of the title, a brief narrative setting forth the main points of the ordinance
in a way reasonably calculated to inform the public in a clear and
understandable manner of the meaning of the ordinance, and the full text of
each section that imposes fines, penalties, forfeitures or fees. The summary
shall be prepared and certified by an attorney licensed to practice law in the
Commonwealth of Kentucky.
   (D) Ordinances that include descriptions of real property may include a
sketch, drawing, or map, including common landmarks, such as streets or roads
in lieu of metes and bounds descriptions.
(KRS 83A.060(9))
§ 32.44 ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENTS FOR ADOPTION MAY BE ESTABLISHED BY CITY.
   The city may, by ordinance, specify additional requirements for adoption of
ordinances in greater detail than contained herein, but the city may not lessen
or reduce the substantial requirements of this chapter or any statute relating
to adoption of ordinances.
(KRS 83A.060(10))
§ 32.45 PERIODIC REVIEW REQUIRED.
   Not less than once every five years all ordinances in this code of
ordinances shall be examined for consistency with state law and with one
another and shall be revised to eliminate redundant, obsolete, inconsistent,
and invalid provisions.
(KRS 83A.060(11))
§ 32.46 MUNICIPAL ORDERS.
   (A) Council may adopt municipal orders. All municipal orders shall be in
writing and shall be adopted only at an official meeting. Orders may be amended
only by a subsequent municipal order or ordinance. All orders adopted shall be
maintained in an official order book.
   (B) In lieu of an ordinance, municipal orders may be used for matters
relating to the internal operation and functions of the city and to appoint or
remove or approve appointment or removal of members of boards, commissions, and
other agencies over which the Council has control.
(KRS 83A.060(12), (13))
§ 32.47 PROVED BY CLERK: RECEIVED IN EVIDENCE.
   All ordinances and orders of the city may be proved by the signature of the
City Clerk; and when the ordinances are placed in this code of ordinances by
authority of the city, the printed copy shall be received in evidence by any
state court without further proof of such ordinances.
(KRS 83A.060(14))
§ 32.48 LEGISLATIVE IMMUNITY.
   For anything said in debate, Councilmembers shall be entitled to the same
immunities and protections allowed to members of the General Assembly.
(KRS 83A.060 (15))
_____________________
Statutory reference:
   Privileges of members of General Assembly, see KRS 6.050 and Ky. Const. § 43
CHAPTER 33: FINANCE AND REVENUE
Section
Financial Administration
   
33.01   Definitions
   
33.02
   Accounting records and financial reports
   
33.03
   Annual budget ordinance
   
33.04
   Annual audit of city funds
   
33.05
   Official depositories; disbursement of city funds
Improvements
   
33.10
   Definitions
   
33.11
   Financing of improvements
   
33.12
   Apportionment of cost
   
33.13
   Comprehensive report required
   
33.14
   Public hearing required
   
33.15
   Adoption of ordinance; notice to affected owners
   
33.16
   Affected owner may contest
   
33.17
   When city may proceed; assessment constitutes lien
   
33.18
   Effect of additional property or change in financing
FINANCIAL ADMINISTRATION
§ 33.01 DEFINITIONS.
   As used in this subchapter, unless the context otherwise requires, the
following definitions shall apply:
   "BUDGET." A proposed plan for raising and spending money for specified
programs, functions, activities, or objectives during a fiscal year.
   "BUDGET DETAIL SHEET." A year-to-year working document, with a clean copy
for each Council member, maintained and updated on a quarterly basis by the
City Clerk through quarterly duplication and computer verification.
   "DEBT SERVICE." The sum of money required to pay installments of principal
and interest on bonds, notes, and other evidences of debt accruing within a
fiscal year and to maintain sinking funds.
   "ENCUMBRANCES." Obligations in the form of purchase orders or contracts that
are chargeable to an appropriation. An obligation ceases to be an encumbrance
when paid or when the actual liability is recorded.
   "FISCAL YEAR." The accounting period for the administration of fiscal
operations.
   "GENERALLY ACCEPTED GOVERNMENTAL AUDITING STANDARDS." Those standards for
audit of governmental organizations, programs, activities, and functions issued
by the Comptroller General of the United States. (KRS 91A.010(6))
   "GENERALLY ACCEPTED PRINCIPLES OF GOVERNMENTAL ACCOUNTING." Those standards
and procedures promulgated and recognized by the Governmental Accounting
Standards Board.
(KRS 91A.010(7)
§ 33.02 ACCOUNTING RECORDS AND FINANCIAL REPORTS.
   (A)   The city shall keep its accounting records and render financial
reports in such a way as to:
      (1)   Determine compliance with statutory provisions;
      (2)   Determine fairly and with full disclosure the financial operations
of constituent funds an account groups of the city in conformity with generally
accepted governmental accounting principles; and
      (3)   Readily provide such financial data as may be required by the
federal revenue sharing program.
   (B)   The municipal accounting system shall be organized and operated on a
fund basis.
(KRS 91A.020)
§ 33.03 ANNUAL BUDGET ORDINANCE.
   (A)   The city shall operate under an annual budget ordinance adopted and
administered in accordance with the provisions of this section. No moneys shall
be expended from any governmental or proprietary fund except in accordance with
a budget ordinance adopted pursuant to this section.
   (B)   Moneys held by the city as a trustee or agent for individuals, private
organizations, or other governmental units need not be included in the budget
ordinance.
   (C)   If in any fiscal year subsequent to a fiscal year in which the city
has adopted a budget ordinance in accordance with this section, no budget
ordinance is adopted, the budget ordinance of the previous fiscal year has full
force and effect as if readopted.
   (D)   The budget ordinance of the city shall cover one fiscal year.
   (E)   Preparation of the budget proposal shall be the responsibility of the
Mayor.
   (F)   The budget proposal shall be prepared in such form and detail as
prescribed by ordinance.
   (G)   The budget proposal together with a budget message shall be submitted
to Council not later than 30 days prior to the beginning of the fiscal year it
covers. The budget message shall contain an explanation of the governmental
goals fixed by the budget for the coming fiscal year; explain important
features of the activities anticipated in the budget; set forth the reasons for
stated changes from the previous year in program goals, programs, and
appropriation levels; and explain any major changes in fiscal policy.
   (H)   (1)   Council may adopt the budget ordinance making appropriations for
the fiscal year in such sums as it finds sufficient and proper, whether greater
or less than the sums recommended in the budget proposal. The budget ordinance
may take any form that Council finds most efficient in enabling it to make the
necessary fiscal policy decisions.
      (2)   No budget ordinance shall be adopted which provides for
appropriations to exceed revenues in any one fiscal year in violation of S 157
of the Kentucky Constitution.
   (i)   The full amount estimated to be required for debt service during the
budget year shall be appropriated for all governmental fund types.
   (J)   Council may amend the budget ordinance after the ordinance's adoption,
if the amended ordinance continues to satisfy the requirements of this section.
   (K)   Administration and implementation of an adopted budget ordinance shall
be the responsibility of the Mayor. That responsibility includes the
preparation and submission to Council of operating statements, including
budgetary comparisons of each governmental fund for which an annual budget has
been adopted. The reports shall be submitted not less than once every three
months in each fiscal year.
   (L)   To the extent practical, the system utilized in the administration and
implementation of the adopted budget ordinance shall be consistent in form with
the accounting system called for in §
33.02.
   (M)   No city agency, or member, director, officer, or employee of a city
agency may bind the city in any way to any extent beyond the amount of money at
that time appropriated for the purpose of the agency. All contracts,
agreements, and obligations, express or implied, beyond any existing
appropriations are void; nor shall any city officer issue any bond,
certificate, or warrant for the payment of money by the city in any way to any
extent, beyond the balance of any appropriation made for the purpose. (KRS
91A.030)
   (N)   Form and detail for annual budget.
      (1)   The form and detail of the annual budget shall correspond to the
previous annual audit, in regards to revenue and expenditures.
      (2)   A schedule of revenue and expenditure account numbers shall be
maintained and presented so that an accurate comparative analysis can be made
between the audit and the budget.
      (3)   Revenue and expenditures shall be directly appropriated to
corresponding funds. If transfers are used, a written explanation shall be
included with the budget ordinance.
      (4)   The proposed budget ordinance shall be submitted to a certified
public accountant for verification before council action. (Ord. 96-4, passed 8-
15-96)
   (O)   Budget detail sheet form and detail.
      (1)   The City Clerk shall maintain and update a "Budget Detail Sheet,"
in the form and manner as set forth in this subsection.
      (2)   The budget detail sheet form and detail shall contain the
following:
         (a)   Account number.
         (b)   Account name.
         (c)   Prior year budget.
         (d)   Actual per prior year audit.
         (e)   Present year proposed and/or approved.
         (f)   Present year amended with date.
      (3)   Actual per audit figures from prior year shall be made available by
the second quarterly report and entered on the detail sheet.
      (4)   Quarterly reports to other governmental bodies shall correspond to
budget and budget detail sheets (Ord. 96-4, passed 8-15-96)
§ 33.04 ANNUAL AUDIT OF CITY FUNDS.
   (A) The city shall, after the close of each fiscal year, cause each fund of
the city to be audited by the auditor of public accounts or a certified public
accountant. The audit shall be completed by February 1 immediately following
the fiscal year being audited. The city shall forward an electronic copy of the
audit report to the Department of Local Government for information purposes by
no later than March 1 immediately following the fiscal year being audited.
   (B)   In lieu of the annual audit requirements in division (A) of this
section, a city with a population equal to or less than 1,000 based upon the
most recent federal decennial census may elect to have an audit performed every
other fiscal year in the following manner:
      (1)   After the close of each odd-numbered fiscal year, the city shall
for that odd- numbered year cause each fund of the city to be audited by the
Auditor of Public Accounts or a certified public accountant. The audits shall
be completed by February 1 immediately following the fiscal year to be audited.
The city shall forward an electronic copy of the audit report to the Department
for Local Government for information purposes by no later than March 1
immediately following the fiscal year being audited; and
      (2)   After the close of each even-numbered fiscal year, the city shall
not be required to complete an annual audit but shall forward an electronic
copy of its financial statement prepared in accordance with KRS 424.220 to the
Department for Local Government by no later than October 1 immediately
following the close of the even-numbered fiscal year.
   (C)   In lieu of the annual audit requirements in division (A) of this
section, a city with a population of more than 1,000 but less than 2,000 based
upon the most recent federal decennial census may elect to have an audit
performed every other fiscal year to cover the two fiscal years occurring since
the prior audit in the following manner:
      (1)   After the close of each odd-numbered fiscal year, the city shall
cause each fund of the city to be audited by the Auditor of Public Accounts or
a certified public accountant. The audit shall include both fiscal years since
the prior audit and shall be completed by February 1 immediately following the
fiscal years to be audited. The city shall forward an electronic copy of the
audit report to the Department for Local Government for information purposes by
no later than March 1 immediately following the fiscal years being audited; and
      (2)   After the close of each even-numbered fiscal year, the city shall
not be required to complete an annual audit but shall forward an electronic
copy of its financial statement prepared in accordance with KRS 424.220 to the
Department for Local Government by no later than October 1 immediately
following the close of the even-numbered fiscal year.
   (D)   Any city, which for any fiscal year receives and expends, from all
sources and for all purposes, less than $75,000, and which has no long-term
debt, whether general obligation or revenue debt, shall not be required to
audit each fund of the city for that particular fiscal year. Each city exempted
in accordance with this division shall annually prepare a financial statement
in accordance with KRS 424.220 and shall, not later than October 1 following
the conclusion of the fiscal year, forward one electronic copy to the
Department for Local Government for information purposes.
   (E)   If a city is required by another provision of law to audit its funds
more frequently or more stringently than is required by this division, the city
shall also comply with the provisions of that law.
   (F)   The Department for Local Government shall, upon request, make
available electronic copies of the audit report to the Legislative Research
Commission to be used for the purposes of KRS 6.955 to 6.975, or to the Auditor
of Public Accounts.
   (G)    The city shall enter into a written contract with the selected
auditor. The contract shall set forth all terms and conditions of the agreement
which shall include, but not be limited to, requirements that:
      (1)   The auditor be employed to examine the basic financial statements,
which shall include the government-wide and fund financial statements;
      (2)   The auditor shall include in the annual or biennial city audit
report an examination of local government economic assistance funds granted to
the city under KRS 42.450 to 42.495. The auditor shall include a certification
with the annual or biennial audit report that the funds were expended for the
purpose intended;
      (3)   All audit information be prepared in accordance with generally
accepted governmental auditing standards which includes such tests of the
accounting records and such auditing procedures as considered necessary under
the circumstances. Where the audit is to cover the use of state or federal
funds, appropriate state or federal guidelines shall be utilized;
      (4)   The auditor shall prepare a typewritten or printed report
embodying:
         (a)   The basic financial statements and accompanying supplemental and
required supplemental information;
         (b)   The auditor’s opinion on the basic financial statements or
reasons why an opinion cannot be expressed; and
         (c)   Findings required to be reported as a result of the audit;
      (5)   The completed audit and all accompanying documentation shall be
presented to Council at a regular or special meeting; and
      (6)   Any contract with a certified public accountant for an audit shall
require the accountant to forward a copy of the audit report and management
letters to the Auditor of Public Accounts upon request of the city or the
Auditor of Public Accounts, and the Auditor of Public Accounts shall have the
right to review the certified public accountant's workpapers upon request.
   (H)   A copy of the audit report which meets the requirements of this
section shall be considered satisfactory and final in meeting any official
request to the city for financial data, except for statutory or judicial
requirements, or requirements of the Legislative Research Commission necessary
to carry out the purposes of KRS 6.955 to 6.975.
   (I)   The city shall, within thirty (30) days after the presentation of an
audit to the Council, publish an advertisement in accordance with KRS Ch. 424
containing:
      (1)   The auditor’s opinion letter;
      (2)   The “Budgetary Comparison Schedules - Major Funds,” which shall
include the general fund and all major funds;
      (3)   A statement that a copy of the complete audit report, including
financial statements and supplemental information, is on file at City Hall and
is available for public inspection during normal business hours;
      (4)   A statement that any citizen may obtain from City Hall a copy of
the complete audit report, including financial statements and supplemental
information, for his personal use;
      (5)   A statement which notifies citizens requesting a personal copy of
the city audit report that they will be charged for duplication costs at a rate
that shall not exceed twenty-five cents ($0.25) per page; and
      (6)   A statement that copies of the financial statement prepared in
accordance with KRS 424.220, when a financial statement is required by KRS
424.220, are available to the public at no cost at the business address of the
officer responsible for preparation of the statement.
   (J)   Any resident of the city or owner of real property within the city may
bring an action in the Circuit Court to enforce the provisions of this section.
Any person who violates any provision of this section shall be fined not less
than $50 nor more than $500. In addition, any officer who fails to comply with
any of the provisions of this section shall, for each failure, be subject to a
forfeiture of not less than $50 nor more than $500, in the discretion of the
court, which may be recovered only once, in a civil action brought by any
resident of the city or owner of real property within the city. The costs of
all proceedings, including a reasonable fee for the attorney of the resident or
property owner bringing the action, shall be assessed against the unsuccessful
party.
   (K)   In the event of extenuating circumstances that prevent a city from
completing and submitting a required audit or financial statement in compliance
with the applicable deadline in division (A) of this section, the city may
submit a written request for an extension of time to the Department for Local
Government on a form prescribed by the Department. The Department shall approve
the request if it is submitted on or before the applicable deadline, and in the
judgment of the Department the request is warranted by extenuating
circumstances beyond the control of the city. Extensions granted under this
division shall not exceed nine (9) months from the original due date of the
audit or financial statement. If the Department approves an extension for a
city and the city fails to complete and submit the required audit or financial
statement in compliance with that extended deadline, then the provisions of
division (L) of this section shall apply.
   (L)   If a city fails to complete an audit or financial statement and submit
it to the Department as required in divisions (A) and (H) of this section, the
Department shall notify the Finance and Administration Cabinet that the city
has failed to comply with the audit requirements of this section, and that any
funds in the possession of any agency, entity, or branch of state government
shall be withheld from the city until further notice. The Department shall
immediately notify the Cabinet when the city complies with the requirements of
divisions (A) and (K) for all prior fiscal years it has failed to comply with
the audit requirements of this section, and the Cabinet shall direct the
reinstatement of payments to the city, including any funds that were withheld
due to the noncompliance.
   (M)   Within a reasonable time after the completion of a special audit or
examination conducted pursuant to KRS 43.050, the auditor shall bill the city
for the actual expense of the audit or examination conducted. The actual
expense shall include the hours of work performed on the audit or examination
as well as reasonable associated costs, including but not limited to travel
costs. The bill submitted to the city shall include a statement of the hourly
rate, total hours, and total costs for the entire audit or examination. (KRS
91A.040)
                    
Statutory reference:
   Department of Local Government to provide assistance, see KRS 91A.050.
§ 33.05 OFFICIAL DEPOSITORIES; DISBURSEMENT OF CITY FUNDS.
   (A) The Mayor shall designate as the city's official depositories one or
more banks. federally insured savings and loan companies, or trust companies
within the Commonwealth. The amount of funds on deposit in an official
depository shall be fully insured by deposit insurance or surety bonds.
   (B) All receipts from any source of city money or money for which the city
is responsible, which has not been otherwise invested or deposited in a manner
authorized by law, shall be deposited in official depositories. All city funds
shall be disbursed by written authorization approved by the Mayor which states
the name of the person to whom funds are payable, the purpose of the payment,
and the fund out of which the funds are payable. Each authorization shall be
numbered and recorded.
(KRS 91A.060)
IMPROVEMENTS
§ 33.10 DEFINITIONS.
   As used in this subchapter, unless the context otherwise requires, the
following definitions shall apply:
   "ASSESSED VALUE BASIS." The apportionment of cost of an improvement
according to the ratio the assessed value of individual parcels of property
bears to the total assessed value of all such properties.
   "BENEFITS RECEIVED BASIS." The apportionment of cost of an improvement
according to equitable determination by Council of the special benefit received
by property from the improvement, including assessed value basis, front foot
basis, and square foot basis, or any combination thereof, and may include
consideration of assessed value of land only, graduation for different classes
of property based on nature and extent of special benefits received, and other
factors affecting benefits received.
   "COST." All costs related to an improvement, including planning, design,
property or easement acquisition and construction costs, fiscal and legal fees,
financing costs, and publication expenses.
   "FAIR BASIS." Assessed value basis, front foot basis, square foot basis, or
benefits received basis.
   "FRONT FOOT BASIS." The apportionment of cost of an improvement according to
the ratio the front footage on the improvement of individual parcels of
property bears to such front footage of all such properties.
   "IMPROVEMENT." Construction of any facility for public use or services or
any addition thereto, which is of: special benefit to specific properties in
the area served by such facility.
   "PROPERTY." Any real property benefited by an improvement.
   "SPECIAL ASSESSMENT" or "ASSESSMENT."A special charge fixed on property to
finance an improvement in whole or in part.
   "SQUARE FOOT BASIS." The apportionment of cost of an improvement according
to the ratio the square footage of individual parcels of property bears to the
square footage of all such property. (KRS 91A.210)
§ 33.11 FINANCING OF IMPROVEMENTS.
   (A) The city may not finance any improvement in whole or in part through
special assessments except as .provided in this subchapter and in any
applicable statutes. (KRS 91A.200)
   (B) Cost of an improvement shall be apportioned equitably on a fair basis.
   (C) The city may provide for lump sum or installment payment of assessments
or for bond or other long-term financing, and for any improvement may afford
property owners the option as to method of payment or financing.
(KRS 91A.220)
§ 33.12 APPORTIONMENT OF COST.
   The cost of any improvement shall be apportioned on a benefits received
basis with respect to any property owned by the state, a local unit of
government, or any educational, religious, or charitable organization. Council
may assess such property in the same manner as for privately owned property or
it may pay the costs so apportioned out of general revenues.
(KRS 91A.230)
§ 33.13 COMPREHENSIVE REPORT REQUIRED.
   Before undertaking any improvements pursuant to this subchapter, the city
shall prepare a comprehensive report setting out:
   (A) The nature of the improvement;
   (B) The scope and the extent of the improvement, including the boundaries or
other description of the area to be assessed;
   (C) The preliminary estimated cost of the improvement;
   (D) The fair basis of assessment proposed;
   (E) If financing of assessments is provided, the proposed method, including
the proposed years to maturity of any bonds to be issued in connection with the
improvement; and
   (F) Such other information as may further explain material aspects of the
improvement, assessments, or financing. (KRS 91A.240)
§ 33.14 PUBLIC HEARING REQUIRED.
   After preparation of the report required by 5.33.13, the city shall hold at
least one public hearing on the proposed improvement at which all interested
persons shall be heard. Notice of the hearing shall be published pursuant to
KRS Chapter 424, and mailed to each affected property owner by certified mail,
return receipt requested, and shall include:
   (A) The nature of the improvement;
   (B) Description of area of the improvement;
   (C) Statement that the city proposes to finance the improvement in whole or
in part by special assessment of property and the method to be used;
   (D) Time and place the report may be examined; and
   (E) Time and place of the hearing. (KRS 91A.250)
§ 33.15 ADOPTION OF ORDINANCE; NOTICE TO AFFECTED OWNERS.
   Within 90 days of conclusion of the hearing, the city shall determine
whether to proceed with the improvement by special assessments, and if it
determines to proceed shall adopt an ordinance so stating and containing all
necessary terms, including the items referred to in §
33.13 and a description of all properties. Promptly upon passage the city shall
publish such ordinance pursuant to KRS Chapter 424 and shall mail by certified
mail to each affected property owner a notice of determination to proceed with
the project, the fair basis of assessment to be utilized, the estimated cost to
the property owner, and the ratio the cost to each property owner bears to the
total cost of the entire project.
(KRS 91A.260)
§ 33.16 AFFECTED OWNER MAY CONTEST.
   (A) Within 30 days of the mailing of the notice provided for in §
33.15, any affected property owner may file an action in the circuit court of
the county, contesting the undertaking of the project by special assessment,
the inclusion of his property in the improvement, or the amount of his
assessment. If the action contests the undertaking of the improvement by the
special assessment method of the inclusion of the property of that property
owner, no further action on the improvement insofar as it relates to any
property owner who is a plaintiff shall be taken until the final judgment has
been entered.
   (B) The city may proceed with the improvement with respect to any properties
whose owners have not filed or joined in an action as provided in this section
or who have contested only the amounts of their assessments, and the provisions
of the resolution are final and binding with respect to such property' owners
except as to contested amounts of assessments. After the lapse of time as
herein provided, all actions by owners of properties are forever barred. (KRS
91A.270)
§ 33.17 WHEN CITY MAY PROCEED; ASSESSMENT CONSTITUTES LIEN.
   (A) After the passage of time for the action provided for in §
33.16, or after favorable final judgment in any such action, whichever comes
later, the city may proceed with the improvement or part thereof stayed by the
action, including notice requiring payment of special assessment or installment
thereon and bonds or other method proposed to finance the improvement. The
first installment may be apportioned so that other payments will coincide with
payment of ad valorem taxes.
   (B) The amount of any outstanding assessment or installments thereof on any
property, and accrued interest and other charges, constitutes a lien on the
property to secure payment to the bondholders or any other source of financing
of the improvement. The lien takes precedence over all other liens, whether
created prior to or subsequent to the publication of the ordinance, except a
lien for state and county taxes, general municipal taxes, and prior improvement
taxes, and is not defeated or postponed by any private or judicial sale, by any
mortgage, or by any error or mistake in the description of the property or in
the names of the owners. No error in the proceedings of the Council shall
exempt any benefited property from the lien for the improvement assessment, or
from payment thereof, or from the penalties or interest thereon, as herein
provided.
(KRS 91A.280)
§ 33.18 EFFECT OF ADDITIONAL PROPERTY OR CHANGE IN FINANCING.
   The city may undertake any further proceedings to carry out the improvement
or any extension or refinancing thereof, except that §§
33.13 through
33.17 applies if additional property is included in the improvement or if
change is made in the method or period of financing;    but additional property
may be included in the improvement with the consent of the owner thereof
without compliance with other sections if it does not increase the cost
apportioned to any other property, or any other chance may be made without such
compliance if all property owners of the improvement consent. (KRS 91A.290)
CHAPTER 34: PUBLIC RECORDS
Section
General
   
34.01
   Definitions
Procedures for Requestinq Public Records
   
34.05
   Initial request with immediate inspection
   
34.06
   Referral to proper custodian
   
34.07
   Public records not immediately available
   
34.08
   Refusal of unreasonable requests
   
34.09
   Time limitation; denial of inspection
   
34.10
   Concealing or destroying records prohibited
   
34.11
   Access to records relating to particular individual
   
34.12
   Public records protected from disclosure
GENERAL
§ 34.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For purposes of this chapter the following words and phrases shall have the
following meanings ascribed to them respectively.
   “CITY.” The city government of this city.
   “COMMERCIAL PURPOSE.” The direct or indirect use of any public record or
records, in any form, for sale, resale, solicitation, rent, or lease of a
service, or any use by which the user expects a profit either through
commission, salary, or fee. “COMMERCIAL PURPOSE” shall not include publication
or related use of a public record by a newspaper or periodical; use of a public
record by a radio or television station in its news or other informational
programs; or use of a public record in the preparation for prosecution or
defense of litigation, or claims settlement by the parties to such action, or
the attorneys representing the parties. (KRS 61.870(4))
   “CUSTODIAN.” The official custodian or any authorized person having personal
custody and control of public records. The “CUSTODIAN” having personal custody
of most of the public records of this city is the City Clerk. (KRS 61.870(6))
   “MECHANICAL PROCESSING.” Any operation or other procedure which is
transacted on a machine, and which may include, but is not limited to a copier,
computer, recorder or tape processor, or other automated device. (KRS 61.870
(8))
   “MEDIA.” The physical material in or on which records may be stored or
represented, and which may include, but is not limited to paper, microform,
disks, diskettes, optical disks, magnetic tapes, and cards. (KRS 61.870(7))
   “OFFICIAL CUSTODIAN.” The chief administrative officer or any other officer
or employee of a public agency who is responsible for the maintenance, care,
and keeping of public records, regardless of whether the records are in his
actual personal custody and control. The “OFFICIAL CUSTODIAN” of this city
shall be the Mayor. (KRS 61.870(5))
   “PERSON.” A human being who makes a request for inspection of public
records.
   “PUBLIC AGENCY.” Every city government board, commission, and authority;
every city council and council board, commission and committee; every school
district board, special district board, and municipal corporation; every city
government agency, including the policy-making board of an institution of
education created by or pursuant to state or local statute, executive order,
ordinance, resolution, or other legislative act; any body created by or
pursuant to state or local statute, executive order, ordinance, resolution, or
other legislative act in the legislative or executive branch of government; any
entity when the majority of its governing body is appointed by a “public
agency”, as defined by this section; a member or employee of a “public agency”,
a state or local officer, or any combination thereof; any board, commission,
committee, subcommittee, ad hoc committee, advisory committee, council or
agency, except for a committee of a hospital medical staff or a committee
formed for the purpose of evaluating the qualifications of public agency
employees, established, created, or controlled by a “public agency” as defined
in this section; an interagency body of two or more public agencies where each
“public agency” is defined in this section. (KRS 61.870(1))
   “PUBLIC RECORD.” All books, papers, maps, photographs, cards, tapes, discs,
diskettes, recordings, software, or other documentation regardless of physical
form or characteristics, which are prepared, owned, used, in the possession of,
or retained by a public agency. “PUBLIC RECORDS” shall not include any records
owned or maintained by or for a body referred to in KRS 61.870(1)(h) that are
not related to functions, activities, programs, or operations funded by state
or local authority nor any records that may be excluded by §
34.12 . (KRS 61.870(2))
   “REASONABLE FEE” or “FEE.” The fair payment required by a public agency for
making copies of non exempt public records requested for noncommercial purposes
which shall not exceed the actual cost of reproduction, including the costs of
the media and any mechanical processing cost incurred by the public agency, but
not including the cost of staff. If a public agency is asked to produce a
record in a nonstandardized format, or to tailor the format to meet the request
of an individual or a group, the public agency may at its discretion provide
the requested format and recover staff costs as well as any actual costs
incurred.
   “REQUEST.” An oral or written application by any person to inspect public
records of the city.
   “RESIDENT OF THE COMMONWEALTH.”
      (1)   An individual residing in the Commonwealth;
      (2)   A domestic business entity with a location in the Commonwealth;
      (3)   A foreign business entity registered with the Secretary of State;
      (4)   An individual that is employed and works at a location or locations
within the Commonwealth;
      (5)   An individual or business entity that owns real property within the
Commonwealth;
      (6)   An individual or business entity that has bee authorized to act on
behalf of an individual or business entity defined in divisions (1) through (5)
above; or
      (7)   A news-gathering organization as defined in KRS 189.635(8)(b)1.a.
to e. (KRS 61.870(10))
   “SOFTWARE.” The program code which makes a computer system function, but
does not include that portion of the program code which contains public records
exempted from inspection as provided by KRS 61.878 or specific addresses of
files, passwords, access codes, user identifications, or any other mechanism
for controlling the security or restricting access to public records in the
public agency’s computer system. “SOFTWARE” consists of the operating system,
application programs, procedures, routines, and subroutines such as translators
and utility programs, but does not include that material which is prohibited
from disclosure or copying by a license agreement between a public agency and
an outside entity which supplied the material to the agency. (KRS 61.870(3))
PROCEDURES FOR REQUESTING PUBLIC RECORDS
§ 34.05 INITIAL REQUEST WITH IMMEDIATE INSPECTION.
   (A)   (1)   Any resident of the Commonwealth shall have the right to inspect
public records. The official custodian may require a written application,
signed by the applicant and with his or her name printed legibly on the
application, describing the records to be inspected. The official custodian may
require the applicant to provide a statement in the written application of the
manner in which the applicant is a resident of the Commonwealth under the
definition of “resident of the Commonwealth” in §
34.01.
      (2)   The written application shall be:
         (a)   Hand delivered;
         (b)   Mailed;
         (c)   Sent via facsimile; or
         (d)   Sent via e-mail to the public agency’s official custodian of
public records or his or her designee at the e-mail address designated in the
public agency’s rules and regulations adopted pursuant to KRS 61.876.
      (3)   A public agency shall not require the use of any particular form
for the submission of an open records request, but shall accept for any request
the standardized form developed under KRS 61.876(4). (KRS 61.872(2))
   (B)   All public records shall be open for inspection by any resident of the
Commonwealth, except as otherwise provided by KRS 61.870 to 61.884, and
suitable facilities shall be made available by each public agency for the
exercise of this right. No resident of the Commonwealth shall remove original
copies of public records from the offices of any public agency without the
written permission of the official custodian of the record. (KRS 61.872(1))
   (C)   A resident of the Commonwealth may inspect the public records:
      (1)   During the regular business hours of the public agency; or
      (2)   By receiving copies of the public records from the public agency
through the mail. The public agency shall mail copies of the public records to
a person whose residence or principal place of business is outside the county
in which the public records are located after he or she has precisely described
the public records which are available within the public agency. If the
resident of the Commonwealth requesting the public records requests that the
records be mailed, the official custodian shall mail the copies upon receipt of
all fees and the cost of mailing. (KRS 61.872(3)).
   (D)   The applicant shall have the right to make abstracts of the public
records and to obtain copies of all public records not exempted by this
chapter. When copies are requested, the custodian may require a written request
and advance payment of the prescribed fee as defined in § 34.01.
   (E)   Nonexempt public records used for noncommercial purposes shall be
available for copying in either standard electronic or standard hard copy
format, as designated by the party requesting the records, where the agency
currently maintains the records in electronic format. Non-exempt public records
used for noncommercial purposes shall be copied in standard hard copy format
where agencies currently maintain records in hard copy format. Agencies are not
required to convert hard copy format records to electronic formats.
   (F) The minimum standard format in paper form shall be defined as not less
than 8 1/2 inches x 11 inches in at least one (1) color on white paper, or for
electronic format, in a flat file electronic American Standard Code for
Information Interchange (ASCII) format. If the public agency maintains
electronic public records in a format other than ASCII, and this format
conforms to the requestor's requirements, the public records may be provided in
this alternate electronic format for standard fees as specified by the public
agency. Any request for a public record in a form other than the forms
described in this section shall be considered a nonstandardized request.
(KRS 61.874(1))
   (G)   Unless an enactment of the General Assembly prohibits the disclosure
of public records to persons who intend to use them for commercial purposes, if
copies of nonexempt public records are requested for commercial purposes, the
public agency may establish a reasonable fee. The public agency from which
copies of nonexempt public records are requested for a commercial purpose may
require a certified statement form the requestor stating the commercial purpose
for which they shall be used, and may require the requestor to enter into a
contract with the agency. The contract shall permit use of the public records
for the stated commercial purpose for a specified fee. The fee may be based on
the cost to the public agency of media, mechanical processing and staff
required to produce a copy of the public record or records or the cost to the
public agency of the creation purchase, or the acquisition of the public
records.
(KRS 61.874(4))
   (H)   It shall be unlawful for a person to obtain a copy of any part of a
public record for a:
      (1)   Commercial purpose, without stating the commercial purpose, if a
certified statement form the requestor was required by the public agency
pursuant to division (G) of this section; or
      (2)   Commercial purpose, if the person uses or knowingly allows the use
of the public record for a different commercial purpose; or
      (3)   Noncommercial purpose, if the person uses or knowingly allows the
use of the public record for a commercial purpose. A newspaper, periodical,
radio or television station shall not be held to have used or knowingly allowed
the use of the public record for a commercial purpose merely because of its
publication or broadcast, unless it has also given its express permission for
that commercial use. (KRS 61.874(5))
   (I)   Online access to public records in electronic form, as provided under
this section, may be provided and made available at the discretion of the
public agency. If a party wishes to access public records by electronic means
and the public agency agrees to provide online access, a public agency may
require that the party enter into a contract, license, or other agreement with
the agency, and may charge fees for these agreements. Fees shall not exceed:
      (1)   The cost of physical connection to the system and reasonable cost
of computer time access charges;
      (2)   If the records are requested for a commercial purpose, a reasonable
fee based on the factors set forth in division (G).
(KRS 61.874(6))
§ 34.06 REFERRAL TO PROPER CUSTODIAN.
   If the City Clerk does not have custody or control of the public record or
records requested, the City Clerk shall so notify the applicant and shall
furnish the name and location of the custodian of the public record.
(KRS 61.872(4))
§ 34.07 PUBLIC RECORDS NOT IMMEDIATELY AVAILABLE.
   If the public record is in active use, in storage, or not otherwise
available, the official custodian shall immediately so notify the applicant and
shall designate a place, time, and date for inspection of the public records,
not to exceed three days (excepting Saturdays, Sundays, and legal holidays)
from receipt of the application, unless a detailed explanation of the cause is
given for further delay and the place, time, and earliest date on which the
public record will be available for inspection or duplication.
(KRS 61.872(5))
§ 34.08 REFUSAL OF UNREASONABLE REQUESTS.
   If the application places an unreasonable burden in producing public
records, or if the custodian has reason to believe that repeated requests are
intended to disrupt other essential functions of the public agency, the
official custodian may refuse to permit inspection of the public records or
mail copies of public records. However, refusal under this section must be
sustained by clear and convincing evidence. (KRS 61.872(6))
§ 34.09 TIME LIMITATION; DENIAL OF INSPECTION.
   (A) The official custodian, upon any request for records made under this
chapter, shall determine within five days, excepting Saturdays, Sundays, and
legal holidays, after the receipt of any request whether to comply with the
request and shall notify in writing the person making the request within the
five-day period of its decision. Any agency response denying, in whole or in
part, inspection of any record shall include a statement of the specific
exception authorizing the withholding of the record and a brief explanation of
how the exception applies to the record withheld. The response shall be issued
by the official custodian or under the official custodian’s authority and shall
constitute final agency action.
   (B)   (1)   If a complaining party wishes the Attorney General to review a
public agency’s denial of a request to inspect a public record, the complaining
party shall forward to the Attorney General a copy of the written request and a
copy of the written response denying inspection. If the public agency refuses
to provide a written response, a complaining party shall provide a copy of the
written request. The Attorney General shall review the request and denial and
issue within 20 days, excepting Saturdays, Sundays and legal holidays, a
written decision stating whether the agency violated provisions of KRS 61.870
to 61.884.
      (2)   In unusual circumstances, the Attorney General may extend the 20-
day time limit by sending written notice to the complaining party and a copy to
the denying agency, setting forth the reasons for the extension, and the day on
which a decision is expected to be issued, which shall not exceed an additional
30 work days, excepting Saturdays, Sundays, and legal holidays. As used in this
section, “UNUSUAL CIRCUMSTANCES” means, but only to the extent reasonably
necessary to the proper resolution of an appeal:
         (a)   The need to obtain additional documentation from the agency or a
copy of the records involved;
         (b)   The need to conduct extensive research on issues of first
impression; or
         (c)   An unmanageable increase in the number of appeals received by
the Attorney General.
      (3)   On the day that the Attorney General renders his or her decision,
he or she shall mail a copy to the agency and a copy to the person who
requested the record in question. The burden of proof in sustaining the act ion
shall rest with the agency, and the Attorney General may request additional
documentation from the agency for substantiation. The Attorney General may also
request a copy of the records involved , but they shall not be disclosed.
   (C)   Each agency shall notify the Attorney General of any actions filed
against that agency in Circuit Court regarding the enforcement of KRS 61.870 to
61.884. The Attorney General shall not, however, be named as a party in any
Circuit Court actions regarding the enforcement of KRS 61.870 to 61.884, nor
shall he or she have any duty to defend his or her decision in Circuit Court or
any subsequent proceedings.
   (D)   If a person feels the intent of KRS 61.870 to 61.884 is being
subverted by an agency short of denial of inspection, including but not limited
to the imposition of excessive fees, delay past the five-day period described
in division (A) above, excessive extensions of time, or the misdirection of the
applicant, the person may complain in writing to the Attorney General, and the
complaint shall be subject to the same adjudicatory process as if the record
had been denied.
   (E)   (1)   A party shall have 30 days from the day that the Attorney
General renders his or her decision to appeal the decision. An appeal within
the 30-day time limit shall be treated as if it were an action brought under
KRS 61.882.
      (2)   If an appeal is not filed within the 30-day time limit, the
Attorney General’s decision shall have the force and effect of law and shall be
enforceable in the Circuit Court of the county where the public agency has its
principal place of business or the Circuit Court of the county where the public
record is maintained.
(KRS 61.880)
§ 34.10 CONCEALING OR DESTROYING RECORDS PROHIBITED.
   No official or employee of the city shall willfully conceal or destroy any
record with the intent to violate the provisions of this chapter or these rules
and regulations.
§ 34.11 ACCESS TO RECORDS RELATING TO PARTICULAR INDIVIDUAL.
   Any person shall have access to any public record relating to him or in
which he is mentioned by name, upon presentation of appropriate identification,
subject to the provisions of this chapter. (KRS 61.884)
§ 34.12 PUBLIC RECORDS PROTECTED FROM DISCLOSURE.
   (A)   The following public records are excluded from the application of this
chapter and these rules and regulations, and shall be subject to inspection
only upon order of a court of competent jurisdiction, except that no court
shall authorize the inspection by any party of any materials pertaining to
civil litigation beyond that which is provided by the Rules of Civil Procedure
governing pretrial discovery:
      (1)   Public records containing information of a personal nature where
the public disclosure thereof would constitute a clearly unwarranted invasion
of personal privacy.
      (2)   Records confidentially disclosed to an agency and compiled and
maintained for scientific research. This exemption shall not, however, apply to
records the disclosure or publication of which is directed by other statute.
      (3)   (a) Records confidentially disclosed to an agency or required by an
agency to be disclosed to it, generally recognized as confidential or
proprietary, which if opened would permit an unfair commercial advantage to
competitors of the entity that disclosed the records.
         (b)   Records confidentially disclosed to an agency or required by an
agency to be disclosed. to it, generally recognized as confidential or
proprietary, which are compiled and maintained (i) in conjunction with an
application or the administration of a loan or grant; (ii) in conjunction with
an application for or the administration of assessments, incentives,
inducements, and tax credits as described in KRS Chapter 154; (iii) in
conjunction with the regulation of commercial enterprise, including mineral
exploration records, unpatented, secret commercially valuable plans,
appliances, formulae, or processes, which are used for the making, preparing,
compounding, treating, or processing of articles or materials which are trade
commodities obtained from a person; or (iv) for the grant or review of a
license to do business. These exemptions shall not, however, apply to records
the disclosure or publication of which is directed by other statutes.
      (4)   Public records pertaining to a prospective location of a business
or industry where no previous public disclosure has been made of the business’
or industry’s interest in locating in, relocating within, or expanding within
the Commonwealth. This exemption shall not include those records pertaining to
applications to agencies for permits or licenses necessary to do business or to
expand business operations within the state, except as provided in division (A)
(3) above.
      (5) Public records which are developed by an agency in conjunction with
the regulation or supervision of financial institutions, including but not
limited to, banks, savings and loan associations, and credit unions, which
disclose the agency's internal examining or audit criteria and related
analytical methods.
      (6)   The contents of real estate appraisals or engineering or
feasibility estimates and evaluations made by or for a public agency relative
to the acquisition of property, until such time as all of the property has been
acquired. The law of eminent domain shall not be affected by this provision.
      (7)   Test questions, scoring keys, and other examination data used to
administer a licensing examination, examination for employment, or academic
examination before the exam is given or if it is to be given again.
      (8)   Records of law enforcement agencies or agencies involved in
administrative adjudication that were compiled in the process of detecting and
investigating statutory or regulatory violations, if the disclosure of the
information would harm the agency by revealing the identity of informants not
otherwise known or by premature release of information to be used in a
prospective law enforcement action or administrative adjudication. Unless
exempted by other provisions of this chapter, public records exempted under
this provision shall be open after enforcement action is completed or a
decision is made to take no action. The exemptions provided by this subdivision
shall not be used by the custodian of the records to delay or impede the
exercise of rights granted by this chapter.
      (9)   Preliminary drafts, notes, or correspondence with private
individuals, other than correspondence which is intended to give notice of
final action of a public agency.
      (10)   Preliminary recommendations and preliminary memoranda in which
opinions are expressed or policies formulated or recommended.
      (11)   All public records or information the disclosure of which is
prohibited by federal law or regulation or state law.
      (12)   Public records or information the disclosure of which is
prohibited or restricted or otherwise made confidential by enactment of the
General Assembly, including any information acquired by the Department of
Revenue in tax administration that is prohibited from divulgence or disclosure
under KRS 131.190.
      (13)   (a)   Public records the disclosure of which would have a
reasonable likelihood of threatening the public safety by exposing a
vulnerability in preventing, protecting against, mitigating, or responding to a
terrorist act and limited to:
            1.   Criticality lists resulting from consequence assessments;
            2.   Vulnerability assessments;
            3.   Antiterrorism protective measures and plans;
            4.   Counterterrorism measures and plans;
            5.   Security and response needs assessments;
            6.   Infrastructure records that expose a vulnerability referred to
in this division through the disclosure of the location, configuration, or
security of critical systems, including public utility critical systems. These
critical systems shall include but not be limited to information technology,
communication, electrical, fire suppression, ventilation, water, wastewater,
sewage and gas systems.
            7.   The following records when their disclosure will expose a
vulnerability referred to in this division: detailed drawings, schematics,
maps, or specifications of structural elements, floor plans, and operating,
utility or security systems of any building or facility owned, occupied, leased
or maintained by a public agency; and
            8.   Records when their disclosure will expose a vulnerability
referred to in this division and that describe the exact physical location of
hazardous chemical, radiological, or biological materials.
         (b)   As used in this division, “TERRORIST ACT” means a criminal act
intended to:
            1.   Intimidate or coerce a public agency or all or part of the
civilian population;
            2.   Disrupt a system identified in division (a)5.; or
            3.   Cause massive destruction to a building or facility owned,
occupied, leased, or maintained by a public agency.
         (c)   On the same day that a public agency denies a request to inspect
a public record for a reason identified in this division, that public agency
shall forward a copy of the written denial of the request, referred to in KRS
61.880(1), to the executive director of the Kentucky Office of Homeland
Security and the Attorney General;
         (d)   Nothing in this division shall affect the obligations of a
public agency with respect to disclosure and availability of public records
under state environmental, health, and safety programs;
         (e)   The exemption established in this division shall not apply when
a member of the Kentucky General Assembly seeks to inspect a public record
identified in this division under the Open Records Law.
      (14)   Public or private records, including books, papers, maps,
photographs, cards, tapes, discs, diskettes, recordings, software, or other
documentation regardless of physical form or characteristics, having historic,
literary, artistic, or commemorative value accepted by the archivist of a
public university, museum, or government depository from a donor or depositor
other than a public agency. This exemption shall apply to the extent that
nondisclosure is requested in writing by the donor or depositor of such
records, but shall not apply to records the disclosure or publication of which
is mandated by another statute or by federal law.
      (15)   Records of procurement process under KRS Chs. 45A or 56. This
exception shall not apply after:
         (a)   A contract is awarded; or
         (b)   The procurement process is canceled without award of a contract
and there is a determination that the contract will not be resolicited.
      (16)   Client and case files maintained by the Department of Public
Advocacy or any person or entity contracting with the Department of Public
Advocacy for the provision of legal representation under KRS Chapter 31.
      (17)   Communications of a purely personal nature unrelated to a any
governmental function.
      (18)   Except as provided in KRS 61.168, photographs or videos that
depict the death, killing, rape, or sexual assault of a person. However, such
photographs or videos shall be made available by the public agency to the
requesting party for viewing on the premises of the public agency, or a
mutually agreed upon location, at the request of:
         (a)   1.   Any victim depicted in the photographs or videos, his or
her immediate family, or legal representative;
            2.   Any involved insurance company or its representative; or
            3.   The legal representative of any involved party;
         (b)   Any state agency or political subdivision investigating official
misconduct; or
         (c)   A legal representative for a person under investigation for,
charged with, pled guilty to, or found guilty of a crime related to the
underlying incident. The person under investigation for, charged with, pled
guilty to, or found guilty of a crime related to the underlying incident or
their immediate family shall not be permitted to have access to the photographs
or videos.
   (B)   No exemption under this section shall be construed to prohibit
disclosure of statistical information not descriptive of any readily
identifiable person. In addition, if any public record contains material which
is not excepted under this section, the city shall separate the excepted and
make the nonexcepted material available for examination, subject to the
possible applicability of §
34.08.
   (C) The provisions of this section shall in no way prohibit or limit the
exchange of public records or the sharing of information between public
agencies when the exchange is serving a legitimate governmental need or is
necessary in the performance of a legitimate government function.
   (D) No exemption under this section shall be construed to deny, abridge, or
impede the right of a municipal employee, an applicant for employment, or an
eligible person on an employment register to inspect and copy any record,
including preliminary and other supporting documentation, that relates to that
person. Such records shall include, but not be limited to work plans, job
performance, demotions, evaluations, promotions, compensation, classification,
reallocation, transfers, layoffs, disciplinary actions, examination scores, and
preliminary and other supporting documentation. A municipal employee,
applicant, or eligible person on an employment register shall not have the
right to inspect or copy any examination or any documents relating to ongoing
criminal or administrative investigations by an agency.
(KRS 61.878)
CHAPTER 34A: PUBLIC MEETINGS
Section
General
   
34A.01   Definitions
Public Meeting Requirements
   
34A.04   Meetings open to the public
   
34A.05   Requirements for closed sessions
   
34A.06   Public meeting schedules
   
34A.07   Special meetings
   
34A.08   Video teleconferences
   
34A.09   Enforcement
GENERAL
§ 34A.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following words and phrases shall have
the following meanings ascribed to them respectively.
   "ACTION TAKEN."A collective decision, a commitment or promise to make a
positive or negative decision, or an actual vote by a majority of the members
of the governmental body. (KRS 61.805(3))
   "MEETING." All gatherings of every kind, including video teleconferences,
regardless of where the meeting is held, and whether regular or special and
informational or casual gatherings held in anticipation of or in conjunction
with a regular or special meeting. (KRS 61.805(1))
   "MEMBER." A member of the governing body of a public agency. "Member" does
not include employees or licensees of the agency. (KRS 61.805(4))
   "PUBLIC AGENCY." Every city government board, commission, and authority;
every city council and council board, commission and committee; every school
district board, special district board, and municipal corporation; every city
government agency, including the policy-making board of an institution of
education created by or pursuant to state or local statute, executive order,
ordinance, resolution, or other legislative act; any body created by or
pursuant to state or local statute, executive order, ordinance, resolution, or
other legislative act in the legislative or executive branch of government; any
entity when the majority of its governing body is appointed by a "public
agency", as defined by this section; a member or employee of a "public agency",
a state or local officer, or any combination thereof; any board, commission,
committee, subcommittee, ad hoc committee, advisory committee, council or
agency, except for a committee of a hospital medical staff or a committee
formed for the purpose of evaluating the qualifications of public agency
employees, established, created, or controlled by a "public agency" as defined
in this section; an interagency body of two (2) or more public agencies where
each "public agency" is defined in this section. (KRS 61.805(2))
   "VIDEO TELECONFERENCE." One (1) meeting, occurring in two (2) or more
locations, where individuals can see and hear each other by means of video and
audio equipment.
(KRS 61.805(5))
PUBLIC MEETING REQUIREMENTS
§ 34A.04 MEETINGS OPEN TO THE PUBLIC.
   (A)   All meetings of a quorum of the members of any public agency at which
any public business is discussed or at which any action is taken by the agency,
shall be public meetings, open to the public at all times, except for the
following:
      (1)   Deliberations on the future acquisition or sale of real property by
a public agency, but only when publicity would be likely to affect the value of
a specific piece of property to be acquired for public use or sold by a public
agency;
      (2)   Discussions of proposed or pending litigation against or on behalf
of the public agency;
      (3)   Collective bargaining negotiations between public employers and
their employees or their representatives;
      (4)   Discussions or hearings which might lead to the appointment,
discipline, or dismissal of an individual employee, member, or student without
restricting that employee's, member's or student's right to a public hearing if
requested. This exception shall not be interpreted to permit discussion of
general personnel matters in secret;
      (5)   Discussions between a public agency and a representative of a
business entity and discussions concerning a specific proposal, if open
discussions would jeopardize the siting, retention, expansion, or upgrading of
the business;
      (6)   Local cabinet meetings and executive cabinet meetings;
      (7)   Deliberations of quasi-judicial bodies regarding individual
adjudications or appointments, at which neither the person involved, his
representatives, nor any other individual not a member of the agency's
governing body or staff is present, but not including any meetings of planning
commissions, zoning commissions, or boards of adjustment;
      (8)   That portion of a meeting devoted to a discussion of a specific
public record exempted from disclosure under KRS 61.878(1)(i). However, that
portion of any public agency meeting shall not be closed to a member of the
Kentucky General Assembly.
      (9)   Meetings which federal or state law specifically require to be
conducted in privacy;
      (10)   Meetings which the Constitution provides shall be held in secret;
and
      (11)   Meetings of any selection committee, evaluation committee, or
other similar group established under KRS Chs. 45A or 56 to select a successful
bidder for award of a state contract.
   (B)   Any series of less than quorum meetings, where the members attending
one or more of the meetings collectively constitute at least a quorum of the
members of the public agency and where the meetings are held for the purpose of
avoiding the requirements of subsection (A) of this section, shall be subject
to the requirements of subsection (A) of this section. Nothing in this
subsection shall be construed to prohibit discussion between individual members
where the purpose of the discussions is to educate the members on specific
issues. (KRS 61.810)
§ 34A.05 REQUIREMENTS FOR CLOSED SESSIONS.
   (A)   The following requirements shall be met as a condition for conducting
closed sessions by those public agencies authorized by §
34A.05(A) (1) and (4) except as (4) relates to students:
      (1)   Notice shall be given in regular open meetings of the general
nature of the business to be discussed in closed session, the reason for the
closed session, and the specific provision of §
34A.05 authorizing the closed session;
      (2)   Closed sessions may be held only after a motion is made and carried
by a majority vote in open, public session;
      (3)   No final action may be taken in closed session; and
      (4)   No matters may be discussed at a closed session other than those
publicly announced prior to convening the closed session.
   (B) Public agencies and activities identified in S 34A.04(A) paragraphs (2),
(3), (4), but only so far as (4) relates to students, (5), (6), (7), (8), (9)
and (10) are excluded from the requirements of subsection (A) of this section.
(KRS 61.815)
§ 34A.06 PUBLIC MEETING SCHEDULES.
   (A)   All meetings of a public agency shall be held at specified times and
places which are convenient to the public. In considering locations for public
meetings, the agency shall evaluate space requirements, seating capacity, and
acoustics.
   (B)   All public agencies shall provide for a schedule of regular meetings
by ordinance, order, resolution, by laws or by whatever other means may be
required for the conduct of business of the public agency. The schedule of
regular meetings shall be made available to the public.
(KRS 61.820)
§ 34A.07 SPECIAL MEETINGS.
   (A)   Except as provided by subsection (F) of this section, special meetings
shall be held in accordance with the provisions of divisions (B)(C) and (D) of
this section.
   (B)   The presiding officer or a majority of the members of the public
agency may call a special meeting;
   (C)   The public agency shall provide written notice of the special meeting
containing the date, time, place of the special meeting and the agenda.
Discussions and action at the meeting shall be limited to items listed on the
agenda in the notice.
   (D)   (1)   As soon as possible, written notice shall be delivered
personally, transmitted by facsimile, or mailed to every member of the public
agency as well as each media organization which has filed a written request,
including a mailing address, to receive notice of special meetings. The notice
shall be received at least twenty-four (24) hours before the special meeting.
The public agency may periodically, but no more often than once in a calendar
year, inform media organizations that they will have to submit a new written
request or no longer receive written notice of special meetings until a new
written request is filed.
      (2)   A public agency may satisfy the requirements of division (1) of
this section by transmitting the written notice by electronic mail to public
agency members and media organizations that have filed a written request with
the public agency indicating their preference to receive electronic mail
notification in lieu of notice by personal delivery, facsimile machine, or
mail. The written request shall include the electronic mail address or
addresses of the agency member or media organization.
   (E)   As soon as possible, written notice shall also be posted in a
conspicuous place in the building where the special meeting will take place and
in a conspicuous place in the building which houses the headquarters of the
agency. The notice shall be posted at least twenty-four (24) hours before the
special meeting.
   (F)   In the case of an emergency which prevents compliance with the notice
requirements in this section, this subsection shall govern a public agency's
conduct of a special meeting. The special meeting shall be called pursuant to
subsection (A)(1) of this section. The public agency shall make a reasonable
effort, under emergency circumstances, to notify the members of the agency,
media organizations which have filed a written request pursuant to this
section, and the public of the emergency meeting. At the beginning of the
emergency meeting, the person chairing the meeting shall briefly describe for
the record the emergency circumstances preventing compliance with the notice
requirements of this section. These comments shall appear in the minutes.
Discussion and action at the emergency meeting shall be limited to the
emergency for which the meeting is called. (KRS 61.823)
§ 34A.08 VIDEO TELECONFERENCES.
   (A)   A public agency may conduct any meeting, other than a closed session,
through video teleconference.
   (B)   Notice of a video teleconference shall comply with the requirements of
KRS 61.820 or 61.823 as appropriate, in addition the notice of a video
teleconference shall:
      (1)   Clearly state that the meeting will be a video teleconference; and
      (2)   Precisely identify the video teleconference locations as well as
which, if any, location is primary.
   (C)   The same procedure with regard to participation, distribution of
materials, and other matters shall apply in all video teleconference locations.
   (D)   Any interruption in the video or audio broadcast of a video
teleconference at any location shall result in the suspension of the video
teleconference until the broadcast is restored. (KRS 61.826)
§ 34A.09 ENFORCEMENT.
   The provisions of this Chapter shall be enforced pursuant to KRS 61.846 and
61.848 for enforcing KRS 61.805 to 61.850.
               
Cross-reference:
   Rules of Procedure, see §§
32.20 -
32.22
CHAPTER 35: TAXATION
Section
   
35.01
   County assessment adopted
   
35.02
   Payment of taxes
   
35.03
   Delinquent taxes
   
35.04
   Ad valorem taxes
   
35.05
   Disposition of funds
   
35.06
   Request for refund
§ 35.01 COUNTY ASSESSMENT ADOPTED.
   (A)   Pursuant to the authority granted in KRS 132.285, the city hereby
adopts the annual Henderson County assessment for all real and personal
property situated within the city as the basis of all ad valorem tax levies
ordered or approved by the City Council.
   (B)   The assessment as finally determined for county tax purposes shall
serve as the basis for all city levies for the fiscal year commencing after the
assessment date.
§ 35.02 PAYMENT OF TAXES.
   (A)   Due date. All city taxes, except ad valorem taxes on motor vehicles
and motorboats, are due and payable on the 31st day of December each tax year.
   (B)   Payment. All taxes payable to the city shall be payable to the City of
Corydon, 130 Main St., Corydon, KY 42406.
(Ord. 2016.01, passed 6-2-16)
§ 35.03 DELINQUENT TAXES.
   (A)   Delinquent taxes. All taxes shall be delinquent if not paid by the
date due and payable.
   (B)   Penalties and interest. All delinquent taxes shall be subject to a
penalty of ten percent (10%) on the amount of the unpaid taxes. Interest shall
accrue at a rate of six percent (6%) on all ad valorem taxes that remain unpaid
after the date that is thirty (30) days after the due date until paid.
   (C)   Partial payments. Partial payments shall be accepted. Payments shall
be applied first to penalties and interest due, then to delinquent taxes, and
only after any such delinquency is satisfied shall payments be applied to the
current year's taxes.
   (D)   Publication. Each year the city may publish each year in the local
paper a list of uncollected delinquent taxes showing the name of and the amount
due from each delinquent taxpayer. An advertising fee of six dollars ($6) shall
be charged to each delinquent tax account included in the publication.
   (E)   Clerk's fee. In addition to all other penalties, fees and costs
charged and incurred by the city there shall be collected a Clerk's fee of
fifteen dollars ($15) on all delinquent tax accounts.
   (F)   Lien. A lien superior to all other liens, except a lien for state
taxes, whether such liens were acquired before or after the delinquency of the
taxes referred to herein, shall exist in favor of the city, from the date the
taxes are due, for the amount of the taxes, interest and penalties, upon all of
the real and personal property of the delinquent tax payer. Pursuant to KRS
134.420, on or before April 1 of each year, the city shall file a notice of
delinquent tax liens with the Henderson County Clerk, which lien shall include
all interest, penalties, fees, commissions, charges, costs, attorney fees and
other expenses allowed by law that have been incurred by reason of the
delinquency in payment of taxes due or in the process of collecting them.
(Ord. 2016.01, passed 6-2-16)
§ 35.04 AD VALOREM TAXES.
   (A)   All ad valorem taxes on motor vehicles shall be collected by the
Henderson County Clerk in accordance with KRS 134.800 and 134.810.
   (B)   Ad valorem taxes on motor vehicles shall become due and delinquent as
set forth in KRS 134.810 and any such taxes not paid by the date when they
become delinquent shall be subject to the penalty and interest specified in KRS
134.810.
   (C)   A special ad valorem tax shall be included within the city taxes,
shall be due and delinquent pursuant to § 35.03 and shall be collected by the
City Clerk.
(Ord. 98.4, passed 9-17-98)
                
Cross Reference:
   Taxation rates, see Tables of Special Ordinances, Table VI.
§ 35.05 DISPOSITION OF FUNDS.
   (A)   The ad valorem tax is levied for the purpose of paying officers and
employees of the city, for street cleaning and street improvements,
construction and reconstruction of streets, as well as the current expenses of
the city, and shall be known as the General Fund for the purpose of paying all
legal claims arising against the city.
   (B)   Revenues collected as a result of the Special Ad Valorem Tax shall be
maintained in a separate bank account for the Sewer Fund. Revenue collected
shall be shown on each annual budget as a separate line item for the
installation, maintenance and upkeep of the Wastewater System.
(Ord. 98.4, passed 9-17-98; Am. Ord. 2002-02, passed 9-26-02; Am. Ord. 2002-03,
passed 9-26-02; Am. Ord. 2003-05, passed 10-7-03; Am. Ord. 2003-06, passed 10-
7-03; Am. Ord. 2004-05, passed 10- 7-04; Am. Ord. 2004-06, passed 10-7-04; Am.
Ord. 2005.04, passed 10-6-05; Am. Ord. 2005.05, passed 10-6-05; Am. Ord.
2006.03, passed 9-21-06; Am. Ord. 2006.04, passed 9-21-06; Am. Ord. 2007.03,
passed 9-20-07; Am. Ord. 2007.04, passed 9-20-07; Am. Ord. 2008.04, passed 9-
18-08; Am. Ord. 2008.05, passed 9-18-08; Am. Ord. 2009-02, passed 9-17-09; Am.
Ord. 2009.03, passed 9-17-09; Am. Ord. 2010.03, passed 10-7-10; Am. Ord.
2011.05, passed 10-20-11; Am. Ord. 2011.06, passed 10- 20-11; Am. Ord. 2012.02,
passed 9-24-12; Am. Ord. 2012.05, passed 9-24-12; Am. Ord. 2012.07, passed 9-
24-12; Am. Ord. 2013.08, passed 9-24-13; Am. Ord. 2013.09, passed 9-19-13; Am.
Ord. 2014.03, passed 9-18-14; Am. Ord. 2015.03, passed 9-3-15)
                
Cross Reference:
   Taxation rates, see Tables of Special Ordinances, Table VI.
§ 35.06 REQUEST FOR REFUND.
   (A)   No insurance company shall be entitled to a refund for any tax
erroneously paid pursuant to the terms of this section unless the request for
refund be made to the city in writing within twelve (12) months of the end of
the calendar year on which said tax is paid. Additionally, said request shall
be accompanied by documentation supporting said request which shall include at
least the following:
      (1)   The name and address of each and every insured upon whom tax was
erroneously paid.
      (2)   The type of risk being insured against.
      (3)   The amount of the insurance premium charged by the company.
      (4)   Such other information as may be reasonably requested by the city.
   (B)   Further, unless a request for refund be made as forth above, no set
off may be made by the company for erroneously paid premiums against future
taxes owed.
(Ord. 2008.01, passed 1-17-08; Am. Ord. 2014.03, passed 9-18-14; Am. Ord.
2015.03, passed 9-3-15)
CHAPTER 36: BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS
Section
   
36.01   Board of Building and Housing Appeals
   
36.02   Joint City-County Human Rights Commission
   
36.03   Civil Defense Fire Department
   
36.04   Board of Ethics
   
36.05   Parks and Recreation Board
§ 36.01 BOARD OF BUILDING AND HOUSING APPEALS.
   For provisions concerning the Board of Building and Housing Appeals, see §
150.03.
§ 36.02 JOINT CITY-COUNTY HUMAN RIGHTS COMMISSION.
   For provisions concerning the Joint City-County Human Rights Commission, see
T.S.O. I.
§ 36.03 CIVIL DEFENSE FIRE DEPARTMENT.
   The Civil Defense Fire Department of the city is hereby established. It
shall be located within the city limits and shall provide fire protection for
residents of the city.
§ 36.04 BOARD OF ETHICS.
   For provisions concerning the Board of Ethics, see §§ 38.40 - 38.49.
§ 36.05 PARKS AND RECREATION BOARD.
   (A)   Creation. There is hereby created a Parks and Recreation Board for the
city consisting of five (5) members who shall be residents of the city. The
Board shall be appointed by the Mayor with approval of the City Council.
   (B)   Terms of members. All appointments to the Board shall be for terms of
four (4) years and until their successors are appointed, except that the
members first appointed shall be on (1) for one (1) year, one (1) for two (2)
years, one (1) for three (3) years, and two (2) to four (4) years. Members may
be reappointed for consecutive four (4) year terms. Vacancies shall be filled
in the same manner as original appointments and for the unexpired term.
   (C)   Designation and term of Chairperson and Vice-Chairperson. The Board
shall elect from its membership a Chairperson, Vice-Chairperson and a
Secretary/Treasurer. Such election shall occur at the first meeting of the
Board and annually at the first meeting of each year thereafter.
   (D)   Compensation. The members of the Board shall serve without
compensation.
   (E)   Meetings; quorum. The Board shall hold public meetings at least
monthly. A majority of the Board shall constitute a quorum for the transaction
of business, and all actions shall require the concurring vote of a majority of
the members present. All meetings shall be held in compliance with the Kentucky
open meetings laws.
   (F)   Functions and powers. The function of the Board shall be to provide,
conduct, and maintain parks, playgrounds, and recreation centers within the
limits of the city in accordance with KRS Chapter 97.010 et seq., and may
expend necessary funds for that purpose. The city may appropriate money out of
the general fund of the city for his or her purpose. In addition, the Board may
accept any grant or devise of real estate or any bequest or gift of money or
any donation to be used for this purpose. All such funds and other property
shall be under the direct control of the Board. All funds administered,
supervised and controlled by the Board, whether from appropriation from the
city or from levies, fees, or donations received by the Board, shall be
maintained by the Secretary/Treasurer in appropriate bank accounts and
deposited and expended from said accounts. All accounts of the Board and the
records of the Board shall be subject to audit by a certified public accountant
at the time of any by the same accountant performing an audit of the city.
   (G)   Budget and reports. The Board shall submit a budget of proposed
receipts and expenditures to the City Council for its approval before April 1
of each year in order that the approved budget may, as necessary, be
incorporated into the budget of the city. The Board shall, within sixty (60)
days after the close of each fiscal year, furnish to the city a written
statement of receipts and expenditures for the preceding year, subscribed and
sworn to by the Chairperson of the Board. In addition, the Board shall, upon
request of the Mayor or City Council, provide financial status reports
including account balances and expenditures made during the period of time
since the last such report.
   (H)   Bylaws/rules and regulations. The Board may adopt, with approval of
the City Council, reasonable rules and regulations for conduct of person in the
city’s parks, playgrounds and recreation centers.
(Ord. 2013-05, passed 5-16-13)
CHAPTER 37: PERSONNEL
Section
   
37.01   Adoption of Personnel and Pay Classification Plan
§ 37.01 ADOPTION OF PERSONNEL AND PAY CLASSIFICATION PLAN.
   The city hereby adopts by reference a Personnel and Pay Classification Plan
for city employees and nonelected city officers, pursuant to KRS 83A.070(2),
and said plan is hereby made a part of this code as if set forth in full
herein.
(Ord. 2004-09, passed 12-2-04)
CHAPTER 38: CODE OF ETHICS
Section
General Provisions
   
38.01   Purpose and authority
   
38.02   Definitions
Standards of Conduct
   
38.10   Prohibited conduct
   
38.11   Conflicts of interest in general
   
38.12   Conflicts of interest in contracts
   
38.13   Receipt of gifts
   
38.14   Use of city property, equipment and personnel
   
38.15   Representation of interest before city government
   
38.16   Misuse of confidential information
   
38.17   Post-employment restriction
   
38.18   Honoraria
Financial Disclosure
   
38.20   Who must file
   
38.21   When to file financial disclosure statements; amended statements
   
38.22   Form of the statement of financial interest
   
38.23   Control and maintenance of the statements of financial interests
   
38.24   Contents of the financial interest statement
   
38.25   Noncompliance with filing requirements
Nepotism
   
38.30   Nepotism prohibited
Enforcement
   
38.40   Board of Ethics created
   
38.41   Facilities and staff
   
38.42   Power and duties of the Board of Ethics
   
38.43   Filing and investigation of complaints
   
38.44   Notice of hearings
   
38.45   Hearing procedure
   
38.46   Appeals
   
38.47   Limitation of actions
   
38.48   Advisory opinions
   
38.49   Reprisals against persons disclosing violations prohibited
 
   
38.99   Penalties
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 38.01 PURPOSE AND AUTHORITY.
   (A) It is the purpose of this chapter to provide a method of assuring that
standards of ethical conduct and financial disclosure requirements for public
servants of the City of Henderson, the County of Henderson, and the City of
Corydon shall be clearly established, uniform in their application and
enforcement; and to provide the public servants of each of said governmental
entities with advice and information concerning potential conflicts of interest
and other violations of ethical standards which might arise in the conduct of
their public duties; and
   (B) It is requirements of government code Assembly.
(Ord. 94-6, passed 12-15-94)
§ 38.02 DEFINITIONS.
   As used in this chapter, unless the context clearly requires a different
meaning:
   "ANYTHING OF VALUE." Money, bank bills or notes; a contract, agreement,
promise or other obligation for a loan, payment, gift, pledge of money or for
forgiveness of indebtedness; stocks, bonds, notes or other investment in an
entity; works of art, antiques, collectibles, automobiles; real estate or an
interest in real estate; a rebate or discount on the price of anything of
value; a promise or offer of employment; and anything of value that is
pecuniary or compensatory in value to a person.
   "BOARD OF ETHICS." The Board of Ethics which is created and vested by this
chapter with the responsibility of enforcing the requirements of this chapter.
   "BUSINESS.," Any corporation, partnership, sole proprietorship, joint
venture, firm, enterprise, franchise, association, organization, self-employed
individual, holding company, joint stock company, receivership, trust,
professional service corporation, or any legal entity through which business is
conducted for profit.
   "CLEAR AND CONVINCING PROOF." Proof with such credibility as to produce in
the mind of a reasonable fact finder a belief or conviction that the
allegations against a public servant are true.
   "CANDIDATE." Any individual who seeks nomination or election to a public
office mentioned in paragraph (D) of this section. For the purposes of this
Chapter, an individual is a candidate when the individual files a notification
and declaration for nomination for one of the public offices specified in this
chapter with the county clerk or also the purpose of this chapter to fulfill
the KRS Chapter 65 relating to the adoption of a local of ethics as directed by
the 1994 Kentucky General secretary of state; is nominated for one of such
offices by a political party; or files a declaration of intent to be a write-in
candidate for one of the public offices to which this chapter applies with the
county clerk or secretary of state.
   "COMPENSATION."Any money, thing of value, or economic benefit conferred on,
or received by any person for services rendered or to be rendered, by himself
or another.
   "ELECTED OFFICIAL." Any of the following:
   (A) The mayors of the Cities of Henderson and Corydon.
   (B) A member of the legislative body of the City of Henderson, the County of
Henderson or the City of Corydon.
   "EMPLOYEE." Any person, whether full-time or part-time, who is employed by
the City of Henderson, the City of Corydon, and/or the County of Henderson. The
term "employee" shall not include any contractor, (including those providing
professional services), subcontractor or any of their employees.
   "FAMILY MEMBER." A spouse, parent, child, brother, sister, motherin-law,
father-in-law, son-in-law, daughter-in-law, grandparent or grandchild,
stepfather, stepmother, stepson, stepdaughter, stepbrother, stepsister, half-
brother, half-sister, related to a public servant, related to a public servant.
   "GIFT." A payment, loan, subscription, advance, deposit of money, services,
or anything of value, unless consideration of equal or greater value is
received.
   (C) The Henderson (D) The Henderson (E) The Henderson (F) The Henderson (G)
The Henderson (H) The Henderson (I) County Judge/Executive. County Clerk.
County Attorney. County Sheriff. County Coroner. County Surveyor.
Each Henderson County Constable.
   "IMMEDIATE FAMILY MEMBER." A spouse, an unemancipated child or stepchild
residing in the public servant's household, or a person claimed by the officer
or employee, or the public servant's spouse, as a dependent for tax purposes.
   "INCOME." Any money or thing of value received or to be received as a claim
on services to a participant, whether in the form of a fee, salary, expense
allowance, forbearance, forgiveness, interest, dividend, royalty, rent, capital
gain, or any other form of compensation or any combination thereof.
   "LEGISLATIVE BODY." The elected legislative body of each of the
participants. In the case of the City of Henderson, "Legislative Body" refers
to the Board of Commissioners. In the case of the County of Henderson,
"Legislative Body" refers to the Fiscal Court of Henderson County. In the case
of the City of Corydon, the term refers to the Corydon Town Council.
   "MINIMAL FACTUAL BASIS." proof, which although reliable, may not be
otherwise sufficient to support a finding by the Board of Ethics that the
public servant complained against violated this chapter, but which tends to
show that there was a violation of this chapter and that there is reason to
believe that the public servant complained against is the perpetrator.
   "OFFICER." Any person, other than an employee or elected official, whether
full-time or part-time, and whether paid or unpaid who provides service to the
participants or any of them. The term "Officer" shall not include contractors
(including those providing professional services), subcontractors or any of
their employees.
   "PARTICIPANTS." Collectively, the City of Henderson, the County of
Henderson, and the City of Corydon, including the public agencies of each
governmental entity.
   (A) "Applicable Participant." Refers to the participant served by a public
servant.
   "PUBLIC AGENCY." Every board, commission, authority, non-stock corporation,
office, department, division, institution, public authority, public corporation
or other public entity created either individually or jointly by any of the
participants.
   "PUBLIC SERVANT." Each elected official, candidate, officer and employee as
defined in this Code of Ethics.
   Whenever a provision in this chapter directs that notice be given to a
legislative body, such notice shall be given to the Mayor of the City of
Henderson; to the County Judge/Executive for the County of Henderson; or to the
Mayor of the City of Corydon, as the case may be. (Ord. 94-6, passed 12-15-94)
STANDARDS OF CONDUCT
§ 38.10 PROHIBITED CONDUCT.
   (A) No public servant, by himself or through others shall knowingly:
      (1) Use or attempt to use his influence in any matter which involves a
substantial conflict between his personal or private interests and his duties
in the public interest;
      (2) Use his official position or office to obtain financial gain for
himself or any member of the public servant's family;
      (3) Use or attempt to use his official position to secure or create
privileges, exemptions, advantages, or treatment for himself or others in
derogation of his duty.
      (4) Knowingly accept compensation, other than that provided by law for
public servants, for performance of his official duties, except for off-duty
police officers and/or deputy sheriffs acting under established policies and
procedures.
   (B) If a public servant appears before a public agency or a participant
served by the public servant, he shall avoid all conduct which might, in any
way, lead members of the general public to conclude that he is using his
official position to further his professional or priva e interests.
    (C) When a public servant abstains from action on an official decision in
which he has or may have a personal or private interest, he shall disclose that
fact so that the decision on such matters may be made by an impartial third
party or parties.
      (1) In determining whether to abstain from action or official decision
because of a possible conflict of interest, a public servant should consider
the following guidelines:
         (a) Whether a substantial threat to his independence of judgment has
been created by his personal or private interests;
         (b) The effect of his participation on public confidence in the
integrity of the executive branch;
         (c) Whether his participation is likely to have any significant effect
on the disposition of the matter;
         (d) The need for his particular contribution, such as special
knowledge of the subject matter; or
         (e) Whether the official decision will affect him in a manner
differently from the public or will affect him as a member of a business,
profession, occupation, or group to no greater extent generally than other
members of such business, profession, or group.
(Ord. 94-6, passed 12-15-94)
§ 38.11 CONFLICTS OF INTERESTS IN GENERAL.
   Every public servant shall comply with the following standards of conduct:
   (A) No public servant, or any immediate family member of public servant,
shall have an interest in a business or engage in any business, transaction or
activity which is in substantial conflict with the proper discharge of the
public servant's public duties.
   (B) No public servant shall intentionally use or attempt to use his official
position with the city to secure unwarranted privileges or advantages for
himself or herself.
   (C) No public servant shall intentionally take or refrain from taking any
discretionary action or agree to take or refrain from taking any discretionary
action or induce or attempt to induce any other public servant to take or
refrain from taking any discretionary action, on any matter before the
participant for which he is a public servant in order to obtain a financial
benefit for any of the following:
   (1) The public servant.
   (2) A family member of the public servant.
   (3) An outside employer of the public servant.
   (4) Any business in which the public servant, or any family member of the
public servant has a financial interest.
   (5) Any business with which the public servant or any family member of the
public servant is negotiating or seeking prospective employment or other
business or professional relationship.
   (D) No public servant shall be deemed in violation of any provision in this
section if, by reason of the public servant's participation, vote, decision,
action or inaction, no financial benefit accrues to the public servant, a
family member, an outside employer, or a business as defined in subsection (C)
(4) and (C)(5) of this section, as a member of any business, occupation,
profession, or other group, to any greater extent than any gain could
reasonably be expected to accrue to any other member of the business,
occupation, profession, or other group.
   (E) Every public servant who has a prohibited financial interest which the
public servant believes or has reason to believe may be affected by his or her
participation, vote, decision or other action taken within the scope of his or
her public duties shall disclose the precise nature and value of the interest,
in writing, to the legislative body of the participant served by the public
servant, and the disclosure shall be entered on the official record of the
proceedings of the governing body. The public servant shall refrain from taking
any action with respect to the matter that is the subject of the disclosure,
and such public servant shall not be counted in determining a quorum necessary
to consider such matter.
(Ord. 94-6, passed 12-15-94)
§ 38.12 CONFLICTS OF INTEREST IN CONTRACTS.
   (A) No public servant shall directly or through others undertake, execute,
hold, or enjoy, in whole or in part, any contract made, entered into, awarded,
or granted by the city or a city agency, except as follows:
      (1) The prohibition in subsection (A) of this section shall not apply to
contracts entered into before an elected official filed as a candidate for
elected public office, before an officer was appointed to a public agency or
office, or before an employee was hired by the participant served by any such
public servant. However, if any contract entered into by a participant or with
a public servant before he or she became a candidate, was appointed to office,
or was hired as an employee, is renewable after he becomes a candidate, is
elected to public office, assumes the appointed office, or is hired as an
employee, then the prohibition in subsection (A) of this section shall apply to
the renewal of the contract.
      (2) The prohibition in subsection (A) of this section shall not apply if
the contract is awarded after public notice and competitive bidding, unless the
public servant is authorized to participate in establishing the contract
specifications, awarding the contract, or managing or taking part in contract
performance after the contract is awarded. If the public servant has any of the
authorities set forth in the preceding sentence, then the public servant shall
have no interest in the contract, unless the requirements set forth in
paragraph (3) below are satisfied.
      (3) The prohibition in subsection (A) of this section shall not apply in
any case where the following requirements are satisfied:
         (a) The specific nature of the contract transaction and the nature of
the public servant's interest in the contract are publicly disclosed at a
meeting of the legislative body of the participant served by the public
servant.
         (b) The disclosure is made a part of the official record of the
legislative body of the participant served by the public servant before the
contract is executed.
         (c) A finding is made by the legislative body of the participant
served by the public servant that the contract with the public servant is in
the best interests of the public and the participant because of price, limited
supply, or other specific reasons.
         (d) The finding is made a part of the official records of the
legislative body of the participant served by the public servant before the
contract is executed.
   (B) Any violation of this section shall constitute a Class A misdemeanor,
and upon conviction, the court may void any contract entered into in violation
of this section. Additionally, a violation of this section shall be grounds for
removal from office or employment with the participant in accordance with any
applicable provisions of state law and ordinances, rules or regulations of the
participant. (Ord. 94-6, passed 12-15-94)
§ 38.13 RECEIPT OF GIFTS.
   (A) No public servant shall directly or indirectly through any other person
or business, solicit or accept any gift under circumstances in which it could
reasonably be inferred that the gift was intended to influence or could
reasonably be expected to influence the public servant in the performance of
his or her public duties.
   (B) This section shall not apply to the following:
      (1) The solicitation or acceptance of contributions to the campaign of an
announced candidate for elective public office, if the public servant and/or
candidate for elective public office has no knowledge or reason to believe that
the campaign contribution, if accepted, was given with the intent to influence
the public servant in the discharge of his or her official duties.
      (2) Gifts received from relatives.
      (3) Gifts accepted on behalf of a participant and transferred to the
participant.
      (4) Reasonable travel and travel-related expenses, cost of admission,
food and beverages, and entertainment furnished in connection with certain
specified, public events, appearance, ceremonies, economic development
activities or fact finding trips related to official business of the applicable
participant.
      (5) Usual and customary loans made to a public servant for personal
reasons and/or in the ordinary course of the public servant's business for so
long as such loans are not made to the public servant to influence the public
servant in the performance of his or her public duties.
      (6) Awards presented to the public servant in recognition of public
service.
   (C) Three shall be a rebuttable presumption that the acceptance by a public
servant of a gift having a value of less than one hundred dollars (100.00) was
not intended to influence the public servant in the performance of his or her
public duties. Nothing in this Code of Ethics shall be construed to prohibit an
elected official from accepting reasonable compensation for performing a
marriage ceremony (solemnizing a marriage) and no additional financial
disclosure shall be required in this regard.
(Ord. 94-6, passed 12-15-94)
§ 38.14 USE OF CITY PROPERTY, EQUIPMENT AND PERSONNEL.
   No public servant of the city shall use or permit the use of any of the
time, funds, personnel, equipment, or other personal or real property of the
participant served by the public servant for the private use of any person,
unless:
   (A) The use is specifically authorized by a stated policy of the participant
served by the public servant.
   (B) The use is available to the general public, and then only to the extent
and upon the terms that such use is available to the general public.
(Ord. 94-6, passed 12-15-94)
§ 38.15 REPRESENTATION OF INTERESTS BEFORE CITY GOVERNMENT.
   (A) No public servant shall represent any person or business, other than the
participant for which he is a public servant, in connection with any cause,
proceeding, application or other matter pending before the participant for
which he is a public servant.
   (B) Nothing in this section shall prohibit an employee from representing
another employee or employees where the representation is within the context of
official labor union or similar representational responsibilities.
   (C) Nothing in this section shall prohibit any public servant from
representing himself in matters concerning his own interests.
   (D) No elected official shall be prohibited by this section from making any
inquiry for information on behalf of a constituent, if no gift, compensation,
reward or other thing of value is promised to, given to, or accepted by the
elected official, whether directly or indirectly, in return for the inquiry.
(Ord. 94-6, passed 12-15-94)
§ 38.16 MISUSE OF CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION.
   No public servant shall intentionally use or disclose information acquired
in the course of his official duties, if the primary purpose of the use or
disclosure is to further his or her personal financial interest or that of
another person or business. Information shall be deemed confidential, if it is
not subject to disclosure pursuant to the Kentucky Open Records Act, KRS 61.872
to 61.884, at the time of its use or disclosure.
(Ord. 94-6, passed 12-15-94)
§ 38.17 POST-EMPLOYMENT RESTRICTION.
   No public servant shall appear or practice before the participant with
respect to any matter on which the public servant personally worked while in
the service of the participant for a period of one (1) year after the
termination of the public servant's service with the participant.
(Ord. 94-6, passed 12-15-94)
§ 38.18 HONORARIA.
   (A) No public servant shall accept any compensation, honorarium or gift in
consideration of an appearance, speech or article under circumstances in which
it could be reasonably be inferred that the compensation, honorarium or gift
was intended to influence or could reasonably be expected to influence the
public servant in the performance of his or her public duties. Provided,
however, that there shall be a rebuttal presumption that the acceptance by a
public servant of compensation, honorarium or gift having a value of less than
one hundred dollars ($100.00) was not intended to influence the public servant
in the performance of his or her public duties.
(Ord. 94-6, passed 12-15-94)
FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE
§ 38.20 WHO MUST FILE.
   (A) The following individuals shall be required to file disclosure
statement:
      (1) All elected city officials of the participants mentioned in Section
(3)(f) of this chapter.
      (2) All candidates for elected office to those offices mentioned in
Section (3)(f) of this chapter.
   (B) Nothing in this section shall be construed to require any elected
official or candidate to disclose any specific dollar amounts or the names of
any individuals, clients or customers of a business listed as a source of
income.
   (C) Nothing in this section shall be construed to prohibit a participant
from requiring financial disclosure under the terms of this chapter by some or
all of a participant's officers, and/or employees. If a participant requires
financial disclosure by some or all of its officers and/or employees, the
provisions in this chapter shall, until such participant removes such
requirement, apply to and be enforced against such officers and/or employees.
   (D) The time for filing the requisite disclosure statement shall be thirty
(30) days after the participant acts to require financial disclosure.
   (E) In order to comply with this section of the Code of Ethics, the
participants shall, no later than February 1 of each year, beginning February
1, 1995, provide a list of all businesses which transacted business during the
immediate preceding two (2) years, (ending December 31 of the year preceding
the year of filing) with the participating governmental entity for which the
filer is either a candidate or an elected official. Such list shall be
maintained in the office of the Henderson County clerk, and a copy provided to
the Board of Ethics.
   (F) The financial disclosure statement shall include the following
information:
      (1) The name of the filer.
      (2) The current business address, business telephone number and home
address of the filer.
      (3) The title of the filer's public office or office sought.
      (4) The occupations of the filer and of the filer's spouse.
      (5) Information that identifies each source of income of the filer, and
or the filer's immediate family members exceeding five thousand dollars
($5,000.00) during the preceding calendar year, and the nature of the income
(e.g. salary, commission, dividends, retirement fund, distribution, etc.).
      (6) The name and address of any business in which the filer or any member
of the filer's immediate family had at anytime during the preceding two (2)
calendar years, an interest having a fair market value of ten thousand dollars
($10,000.00) or a five percent (5%) ownership interest or more if the business
has engaged in any business transaction for or with the participant served by
the filer.
      (7) A designation as commercial, residential, or rural, and the location
of all real property within the County of Henderson, other than the filer's
primary residence, in which the filer or any member of the filer's immediate
family had ownership interest of ten thousand dollars ($10,000.00) or more at
any time during the preceding two (2) years.
      (8) Each source, by name and address, of gifts or honoraria, having an
aggregate fair market value of $100.00 or more from any signee source,
excluding gifts received from family members, received by the filer or any
member of the filer's immediate family at any time during the preceding two (2)
years.
      (9) The name and address of any creditor owed more than ten thousand
dollars ($10,000.00) at any time during the preceding two (2) calendar years,
except debts owed to state and federally regulated financial institutions, and
those debts arising from the purchase of a primary residence, furniture and
fixtures for the primary residence, family owned automobiles or consumer goods
which are bought or used primarily for personal, family or household purposes.
(Ord. 94-6, passed 12-15-94)
§ 38.21 WHEN TO FILE FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE STATEMENTS; AMENDED STATEMENTS.
   (A) The initial statement of financial interests required by §
38.20 shall be filed with the Board of Ethics, or the administrative official
designated as custodian of its records no later than March 15, 1995. All
subsequent statements of financial interest shall be filed no later than March
15 of each year provided that:
      (1) A newly elected official or newly appointed official to one of the
elected offices mentioned in §
38.02 shall file his or her initial statement no later than thirty (30) days
after the date of such election or appointment.
      (2) Candidates for those elected public offices to which this chapter
applies shall file their initial statement no later than March 15 of the year
in which the person becomes a candidate.
      (3) Candidates not subject to May primary election shall file their
initial statement no later than sixty (60) days before the November election.
   (B) The Board of Ethics may grant reasonable extensions of time for filing a
statement of financial interest for good cause shown.
   (C) In the event there is a change in any information required to be
reported in a financial statement that has been filed with the board, the
elected official and/or candidate shall, no later than thirty (30) days after
becoming aware of the change, file an amended financial disclosure statement
with the board.
      (2) A candidate for city office shall file his initial statement no later
than thirty (30) days after the date on which the person becomes a candidate
for elected city office.
   (B) The Board of Ethics may grant a reasonable extension of time for filing
a statement of financial interests for good cause shown.
   (C) In the event there is a material change in any information contained in
a financial statement that has been filed with the Board, the public servant
shall, no later than thirty (30) days after becoming aware of the material
change, file an amended statement with the Board. (Ord. 94-6, passed 12-15-94)
§ 38.22 FORM OF THE STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL INTEREST.
   The statement of financial interests shall be filed on a form prescribed by
the Board of Ethics. The Board, or the designated administrative official,
shall deliver a copy of the form to each elected official and candidate
required to file the statement, by first class mail or hand delivery, no later
than thirty (30) days preceding the date on which the statement is required to
be filed. The failure of the Board or the designated administrative official,
to deliver a copy of the form to any elected official or candidate shall not
relieve the elected official or candidate of the obligation to file the
statement. (Ord. 94-6, passed 12-15-94)
§ 38.23 CONTROL AND MAINTENANCE OF THE STATEMENTS OF FINANCIAL INTERESTS.
   (A) The Board of Ethics shall be the "official custodian" of the statements
of financial interests and shall have control over the maintenance of the
statements of financial interests. The statements of financial interests shall
be maintained by the Board of Ethics, or the administrative official designated
by the Board of Ethics as the "custodian", as public documents, available for
public inspection immediately upon filing.
   (B) A statement of financial interests shall be retained and maintained by
the Board, or the designated administrative official in compliance with the
standards established by the Department of Archives and Records.
(Ord. 94-6, passed 12-15-94)
§ 38.24 CONTENTS OF THE FINANCIAL INTEREST STATEMENT.
   (A) The statement of financial interests shall include the following
information for the preceding calendar year:
      (1) The name, current business address, business telephone number, and
home address of the filer.
      (2) The title of the filer's office, office sought, or position of
employment.
      (3) The occupation of the filer and the filer's spouse.
      (4) Information that identifies each source of income of the filer and
the filer's immediate family members exceeding five thousand dollars ($5,000)
during the preceding calendar year and the nature of the income (e.g., salary,
commission, dividends, retirement fund distribution, etc.)
      (5) The name and address of any business located within the state in
which the filer or any member of the filer's immediate family had at any time
during the preceding calendar year an interest of ten thousand dollars
($10,000) at fair market value or five percent (5%) ownership interest or more.
      (6) The name and address of any business located outside of the state, if
the business has engaged in any business transactions with the city during the
past three (3) years, or which is anticipated to engage in any business
transactions with the city, in which the filer or any member of the filer's
immediate family had at any time during the preceding calendar year an interest
of ten thousand dollars ($10,000) at fair market value or five percent (5%)
ownership interest or more.
      (7) A designation as commercial, residential, or rural and the location
of all real property within the city or for the city's representative to a
county-wide planning commission within the county other than the filer's
primary residence in which the filer or any member of the filer's immediate
family had during the preceding calendar year an interest of ten thousand
dollars ($10,000) or more.
      (8) Each source by name and address of gifts or honoraria having a fair
market value of one hundred dollars ($100) or more from any single source,
excluding gifts received from family members, received by the filer or any
member of the filer's immediate family during the preceding calendar year.
      (9) The name and address of any creditor owed more than ten thousand
dollars ($10,000), except debts arising from the purchase of a primary
residence or the purchase of consumer goods which are bought or used primarily
for person, family or household purposes.
   (B) Nothing in this section shall be construed to require any public servant
to disclose any specific dollar amounts nor the names of individual clients or
customers of businesses listed as sources of income.
(Ord. 94-6, passed 12-15-94)
§ 38.25 NONCOMPLIANCE WITH FILING REQUIREMENTS.
   (A) The Board of Ethics or the designated administrative official, shall
notify, by certified mail, each person required to file a statement of
financial interests who fails to file the statement by the due date, files an
incomplete statement, or files a statement in a form other than that prescribed
by the board. The notice shall specify the type of failure or delinquency,
shall establish a date by which the failure or delinquency shall be remedied,
and shall advise the person of the penalties for a violation.
   (B) Any person who fails or refuses to file the statement or who fails or
refuses to remedy a deficiency in the filing identified in the notice under
subsection (A) within the time period established in the notice shall be guilty
of a civil offense and shall be subject to a civil fine imposed by the Board in
an amount not to exceed twenty-five dollars ($25.00) per day, up to a maximum
total civil fine of five hundred dollars ($500.00). Any civil fine imposed by
the Board under this section may be recovered by the applicable participant in
a civil action in the nature of debt if the offender fails or refuses to pay
the penalty within a prescribed period of time.
   (C) Any person who intentionally files a statement of financial interests
which he knows to contain false information or intentionally omits required
information shall be guilty of a Class A misdemeanor. (Ord. 94-6, passed 12-15-
94)
NEPOTISM
§ 38.30 NEPOTISM PROHIBITED.
   (A) No public servant shall advocate, recommend or cause the:
      (1) employment;
      (2) appointment;
      (3) promotion;
      (4) transfer; or
      (5) advancement
of a family member to an office or position of employment with the participant
served by such public servant.
   (B) No public servant shall supervise or manage the work of a family member.
   (C) No public servant shall participate in any action relating to the
employment or discipline of a family member, except that this prohibition shall
not prevent an elected official or officer from voting on or participating in
the development of a budget which includes compensation for a family member,
provided that the family member is included only as a member of a class of
persons or a group, and the family member benefits to no greater extent than
any other similarly situated member of the class or group,
   (D) The prohibitions in this section shall not apply to any relationship or
situation that would violate the prohibition, which existed prior to the
effective date of the chapter. (Ord. 94-6, passed 12-15-94)
ENFORCEMENT
§ 38.40 BOARD OF ETHICS CREATED.
   (A) There is hereby created a Board of Ethics which shall have the
authorities, duties, and responsibilities set forth in this chapter to enforce
the provisions of this chapter.
   (B) The Board of Ethics shall consist of three (3) members: one appointed by
the County Judge/Executive of Henderson County, Kentucky; one appointed by the
Mayor of the City of Henderson; and one appointed by the Mayor of the City of
Corydon. The appointment by the Mayor of the City of Henderson shall be
approved by the Board of Commissioners of the City of Henderson; the
appointment by the Henderson County Judge/Executive shall be approved by the
Fiscal Court of Henderson County; and the appointment by the Mayor of Corydon
shall be approved by the City Council of the City of Corydon. The initial
members of the Board of Ethics shall be appointed within sixty (60) days after
the effective date of this Code of Ethics. No member of the Board of Ethics
shall hold any elected or appointed office with any of the participants,
whether paid or unpaid, or any position of employment with any of the
participants. The members shall serve for a term of three 93) years; except
that with respect to the members initially appointed, one member shall be
appointed for a term of one (1) hear; one members hall be appointed for a term
of (2) two years; ad one members shall be appointed for a term of three (3)
years. Thereafter, all appointments shall be for a term of three (3) years.
With respect to the staggered terms of the members initially appointed, the
initial term of office of each member so appointed shall be determined by a
drawing of lots by the Mayor of the City of Henderson, the County Judge/
Executive of Henderson County, and the Mayor of the City of Corydon. The member
appointed to the Board of Ethics by the Mayor of the City of Henderson shall
have been a resident of the City of Henderson for at least one (10 year prior
to the date of such appointment and shall reside in the City throughout the
term of office. The member appointed by the County Judge/Executive of Henderson
County shall have been a resident of Henderson County, for at least one (1)
year prior to the date of appointment and shall remain in the county throughout
the term of office. The member appointed by the Mayor of the City of Corydon
for at least one (1) year prior to the date of the appointment and shall reside
in the City of Corydon throughout the term of office. The members of the Board
of Ethics shall be chosen by virtue of their known and consistent reputation
for integrity and their knowledge of local government affairs. The members may
be reappointed for any number of consecutive terms.
   (C) A member of the Board of Ethics may be removed for misconduct, inability
to perform his duties or wilful neglect of duties, but such removal shall be by
the legislative body of the participant which appointed the member to the Board
of Ethics. Before any member of the Board of Ethics is removed from office
under this section, the member shall be afforded the opportunity for an
informal hearing before the legislative body of the participant which appointed
the member to the Board of Ethics. Nothing in this section should be construed
as giving any member of the Board of Ethics any vested rights to membership on
the Board of Ethics.
   (D) Vacancies on the Board of Ethics shall be filled within sixty (60) days
after such vacancy by the elected official responsible for such appointment,
subject to the approval of the appropriate legislative body. If a vacancy is
not filled within sixty (60) days, the remaining members of the Board of Ethics
shall have authority to fill such vacancy without the approval of the
appropriate legislative body but such appointee shall meet all residency
requirements. All vacancies shall be filled for the remainder of the unexpired
term.
   (E) Members of the Board of Ethics shall serve without compensation, unless
otherwise approved by the participants, but shall be reimbursed for all
necessary and reasonable expenses incurred in performance of their duty.
   (F) The Board of Ethics shall, upon initial appointment of its members and
annually thereafter, elect a chairperson from among the membership. The
chairperson shall be the presiding officer and a full voting member of the
board.
   (G) Members of the Board of Ethics shall be held upon the call of the
chairperson or at the written request of a majority of the members of the
board.
   (H) The presence of two or more members shall constitute a quorum and the
affirmative vote of at least two or more members shall be necessary for any
official action to be taken. Any member of the Board of Ethics who has a
conflict of interest with respect to any matter to be considered by the Board
shall disclose the nature of the conflict, shall disqualify himself from voting
on the matter, and shall not be counted for purposes of establishing a quorum
with respect to the issue on which member has a conflict.
   (I) Minutes shall be kept of all proceedings of the Board of Ethics and the
vote of each member on any issue decided by the board shall be recorded in the
minutes.
   (J) The members of the Board of Ethics shall be subject to the applicable
provisions of this chapter just as any other officer. (Ord. 94-6, passed 12-15-
94)
§ 38.41 FACILITIES AND STAFF.
   Within the limits of the funds appropriated by the participants, the
participants shall provide the Board of Ethics, either directly or by contract
or agreement, with the facilities, supplies and staff needed for the conduct of
its business.
(Ord. 94-6, passed 12-15-94)
§ 38.42 POWER AND DUTIES OF THE BOARD OF ETHICS.
   The Board of Ethics shall have the following powers and duties:
   (A) To initiate on its own motion, receive and investigate complaints, hold
hearings, and make findings of fact and determinations with regard to alleged
violations of the provisions of this chapter.
   (B) To issue orders in connection with its investigations and hearings
requiring persons to submit in writing and under oath reports and answers to
questions that are relevant to proceedings before the Board of Ethics and to
order testimony to be taken by deposition before any individual designated by
the Board having the power to administer oaths.
   (C) To administer oaths in connection with its investigations and hearings;
to request the attendance and testimony of witnesses; and the production of
documentary evidence relating to an investigation or hearing being conducted by
the Board.
   (D) To refer any information concerning violations of this chapter to the
legislative body of the applicable participant, the county attorney, or other
appropriate public person or body, as necessary.
   (E) To render advisory opinions to elected officials, officers and employees
regarding whether a given set of facts and circumstances constitute a violation
of any provision of this chapter.
   (F) To enforce the provisions of this chapter with regard to all elected
officials, officers and employees of the participants who are subject to its
terms by issuing appropriate orders and imposing penalties authorized by this
chapter.
   (G) To control and maintain all statements of financial interests that are
required to be filed by this chapter and to insure that the statements are
available for public inspection in accordance with the requirements of this
chapter and the Kentucky Open Records Act.
   (H) To develop and submit any reports regarding the conduct of its business
that may be required by the executive authority or the legislative body of a
participant.
   (I) To adopt rules and regulations and to take such other actions, as
necessary, to implement the provisions of this chapter, provided that the
rules, regulations, and actions are not in conflict with the provisions of this
chapter or any state or federal law. (Ord. 94-6, passed 12-15-94)
§ 38.43 FILING AND INVESTIGATION OF COMPLAINTS.
   (A) All complaints alleging any violation of this chapter shall be submitted
to the Board of Ethics, or the administrative official designated by the Board
of Ethics. All complaints shall be in writing, signed by the complainant, and
shall meet any other requirements established by the Board of Ethics. The Board
of Ethics shall acknowledge receipt of a complaint to the complainant within
ten (10) working days from the date of receipt. The Board shall forward within
ten (10) working days to each public servant of the applicable applicant who is
the subject of the complaint, a copy of the complaint and a general statement
of the applicable provisions of this chapter.
   (B) Within thirty (30) days after receipt of a proper complaint, the Board
of Ethics shall conduct a preliminary inquiry concerning the allegations
contained in the complaint. The Board shall afford the person who is the
subject of the complaint an opportunity to respond to the allegations in the
complaint. The person shall have the right to be represented by counsel, to
appear and be heard under oath, and to offer evidence in response to the
allegations.
   (C) All proceedings and records relating to a preliminary inquiry being
conducted by the Board of Ethics shall be confidential until a final
determination is made by the Board except:
      (1) The Board may turn over to the Commonwealth's Attorney or county
attorney evidence which may be used in criminal proceedings.
      (2) If the complainant or alleged violator publicly discloses the
existence of a preliminary inquiry, the board may publicly confirm the
existence of the inquiry, and, at its discretion, make public any documents
which were issued to either party.
   (D) The Board shall make a determination based on its preliminary inquiry
whether the complaint is (1) within its jurisdiction; and, if so, (2) whether
it alleges a minimal factual basis to constitute a violation of this chapter.
If the board concludes that the complaint is outside of its jurisdiction,
frivolous or without factual basis, the board shall immediately terminate the
inquiry, reduce the conclusion to writing, and transmit a copy of its decision
to the complainant and to all elected officials, officers or employees against
whom the complaint was filed.
   (E) If the Board of Ethics concludes, based upon its preliminary inquiry,
that the complaint is (1) within its jurisdiction and (2) contains allegations
sufficient to establish a minimal factual basis to constitute a violation, the
Board shall notify the public servant who is the subject of the complaint and
may:
      (1) Due to mitigating circumstances such as, lack of significant economic
advantage or gain by the public servant, lack of economic loss to the
applicable participant and its taxpayers, or lack of significant impact on
public confidence in government matters, issue, in writing, an informal
reprimand to the public servant concerning the alleged violation and provide a
copy of the informal reprimand to the applicable legislative body; or
      (2) Initiate a hearing to determine whether there has been a violation.
   (F) Any person who files a complaint with the board alleging a violation of
any provision of this chapter by a public servant knowing at the time that the
allegations are false shall be guilty of a Class A misdemeanor.
(Ord. 94-6, passed 12-15-94)
§ 38.44 NOTICE OF HEARINGS.
   If the Board of Ethics determines that a hearing regarding allegations
contained in the complaint is necessary, the Board shall issue an order setting
the matter for a hearing within thirty (30) days after the date the hearing
order is issued, unless the alleged violator petitions for, and the Board
consents to, a later date. The order setting the matter for hearing, along with
a copy of any pertinent regulations of the board relating to the hearing shall
be sent to the alleged violator within seventy-two (72) hours of the time set
for a hearing.
(Ord. 94-6, passed 12-15-94)
§ 38.45 HEARING PROCEDURE.
   (A) The Kentucky Rules of Civil Procedure and the Kentucky Rules of Evidence
shall not apply to hearings conducted by the Board of Ethics; however, the
hearings shall be conducted in accordance with this section and in accordance
with any additional rules and regulations adopted by the board so as to afford
all parties before the board the full range of due process rights required by
the nature of the proceedings.
   (B) Prior to the commencement of the hearing, the alleged violator, or his
or her representative, shall have a reasonable opportunity to examine all
documents and records obtained or prepared by the board in connection with the
matter to be heard. The board shall inform the alleged violator, or his or her
representative, of any exculpatory evidence in its possession.
   (C) All testimony in a Board hearing shall be taken under oath, administered
by the presiding officer. All parties shall have the right to call and examine
witnesses, to introduce exhibits, to cross-examine witnesses, to submit
evidence, and to be represented by counsel. All witnesses shall have the right
to be represented by counsel.
   (D) Any person whose name is mentioned during the hearing and who may be
adversely affected thereby may appear personally before the board, with or
without counsel, to give a statement regarding the adverse mention, or may file
a written statement regarding the adverse mention for incorporation into the
record of the proceeding.
   (E) All hearings of the Board of Ethics shall be public, unless the members
vote to go into executive session in accordance with KRS 61.810 or any other
applicable law, rule or regulation governing the conduct of public meetings and
hearings.
   (F) After the conclusion of the hearing, the Board of Ethics shall, as soon
as practicable, begin deliberations in closed session for the purpose of
reviewing the evidence before it and making a determination as to whether a
violation of this chapter has been proven by clear and convincing proof. Within
thirty (30) days after completion of the hearing, the board shall issue a
written report of its findings and conclusions.
   (G) If the board concludes in its report that no violation of this chapter
has occurred, it shall immediately send written notice of this determination to
the public servant who was the subject of the complaint, to the party who filed
the complaint and to the applicable legislative body.
   (H) If the Board concludes in its report that in consideration of the
evidence produced at the hearing, there is "clear and convincing proof" of a
violation of this chapter, the board may:
      (1) Issue an order requiring the violator to cease and desist the
violation; and/or
      (2) In writing, publicly reprimand the violator for the violations and
provide a copy of the reprimand to the applicable legislative body of the
participant with which the violator serves; and/or
      (3) In writing, recommend to the applicable legislative body that the
violator be sanctioned as recommended by the board, which may include a
recommendation for discipline or dismissal, or removal from office; and/or
      (4) Issue an order requiring the violator to pay a civil penalty of not
more than $1,000; and/or
      (5) Refer the evidence of what reasonable appear to be criminal
violations of this chapter or state laws to the county attorney or
commonwealth's attorney of Henderson County for prosecution. (Ord. 94-6, passed
12-15-94)
§ 38.46 APPEALS.
   Any person who is found guilty of a violation of any provision of this
chapter by the Board of Ethics may appeal the finding to the Henderson Circuit
Court within thirty (30) days after the date of the final action of the Board
of Ethics by filing a petition with the court against the board. The board
shall transmit to the clerk of the court all evidence considered by the board
at the public hearing. (Ord. 94-6, passed 12-15-94)
§ 38.47 LIMITATION OF ACTIONS.
   Except when the period of limitation is otherwise established by law, an
action for a violation of this chapter must be brought within one (1) year
after evidence of the violation is discovered. (Ord. 94-6, passed 12-15-94)
§ 38.48 ADVISORY OPINIONS.
   (A) The Board of Ethics may render advisory opinions concerning matters
under its jurisdiction, based only upon real facts and circumstances, upon its
own initiative or when requested by any public servant who is subject to this
chapter.
   (B) An advisory opinion shall be requested in writing and shall state
relevant facts and ask specific questions. The request for an advisory opinion
shall remain confidential unless confidentiality is waived, in writing, by the
requestor.
   (C) The board may adopt regulations consistent with the Kentucky Open
Records Law, to establish criteria under which it will issue confidential
advisory opinions. All other advisory opinions shall be public documents,
except that before an advisory opinion is made public, it shall be modified so
that the identity of any persons associated with the opinion shall not be
revealed.
   (D) The confidentiality of an advisory opinion may be waived either:
      (1) In writing by the person who requested the opinion.
      (2) By majority vote of the members of the board, if a person makes or
purports to make public the substance or any portion of an advisory opinion
requested by or on behalf of the person. The board may vote to make public the
advisory opinion request and related materials.
   (E) A written advisory opinion issued by the board based on real facts shall
be binding on the board in any subsequent proceeding concerning the facts and
circumstances if no intervening facts or circumstances arise which would change
the opinion of the Board if they had existed at the time the opinion was
rendered. However, if any fact determined by the board to be material was
omitted or misstated in the request for an opinion, the board shall not be
bound by the opinion. However, nothing contained in this paragraph (E) shall be
construed to require the board to be bound by its precedents in rendering
subsequent advisory opinions not involving the same facts and circumstances.
   (F) A written advisory opinion issued by the Board shall be admissible in
the defense of any criminal prosecution or civil proceeding for violations of
this chapter for actions taken in reliance on that opinion.
   (G) The Board of Ethics shall not render advisory opinions on hypothetical
facts. Advisory opinions shall be based only on an actual case and controversy.
(Ord. 94-6, passed 12-15-94)
§ 38.49 REPRISALS AGAINST PERSONS DISCLOSING VIOLATIONS PROHIBITED.
   (A) No public servant shall subject any person to reprisal, or directly or
indirectly use, or threaten to use, any official authority or influence in any
manner whatsoever which tends to discourage, restrain, deter, prevent,
interfere with, coerce, or discriminate against any person who in good faith
reports, discloses, divulges, or otherwise brings to the attention of the Board
of Ethics or any other agency or official of the participants or the
Commonwealth any facts or information relative to an actual or suspected
violation of this chapter.
   (B) This section shall not be construed as:
      (1) Prohibiting disciplinary or punitive action if a public servant
discloses information which he or she knows:
         (a) To be false or which he or she discloses with reckless disregard
for its truth or falsity.
         (b) To be exempt from required disclosure under the provisions of the
Kentucky Open Records Act, KRS 61.870 to 61.884.
         (c) Is confidential under any other provision of law. (Ord. 94-6,
passed 12-15-94)
§ 38.99 PENALTIES.
   (A) Except when another penalty is specifically set forth in this chapter,
any public servant who is found by the Board of Ethics to have violated any
provision of this chapter shall be deemed guilty of a civil offense and may be
subject to a civil fine imposed by the Board of Ethics not to exceed one
thousand dollars ($1,000) per offense, which may be recovered by the applicable
participant in a civil action in the nature of debt if the offender fails to
pay the penalty within a prescribed period of time.
   (B) In addition to all other penalties which may be imposed under this
chapter, the public servant found to be in violation shall forfeit to
applicable participant which he serves an amount equal to the economic benefit
or gain which the public servant is determined by the board to have realized as
a result of the violation. The amount of any forfeiture may be recovered by the
participant in a civil action in the nature of debt, if the offender fails to
pay the amount of the forfeiture within a prescribed period of time.
   (C) In addition to all other penalties which may be imposed under this
chapter, a finding by the Board of Ethics that a public servant is guilty of a
violation of this chapter shall be sufficient cause for removal, suspension,
demotion, or other disciplinary action by the applicable participant. Any
action to remove or discipline any public servant for a violation of this
chapter shall be taken in accordance with all applicable ordinances and
regulations of the participant and all applicable laws of the Commonwealth.
(Ord. 94-6, passed 12-15-94)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
         Chapter
            
50.   SEWER REGULATIONS
            
51.   GAS CODE
CHAPTER 50: SEWER REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
50.001   Purpose; policy
   
50.002   Definitions
Connection to Public Sewers
   
50.011   Requirements for Proper Wastewater Disposal
   
50.012   Physical Connection to the Public Sewer
   
50.013   Inspection of Connections
   
50.014   Maintenance of Building Sewers
   
50.015   Plumbing Certificate Required
Private Domestic Wastewater Disposal
   
50.020   Availability
   
50.021   Requirements
Regulation of Holding Tank Waste Disposal
   
50.030   Permit
   
50.031   Fees
   
50.032   Designated Disposal Locations
   
50.033   Revocation of Permit
Applications for Domestic Wastewater Discharge and Industrial Wastewater
Discharge Permits
   
50.040   Application for Discharge of Domestic Wastewater
   
50.041   Industrial Wastewater Discharge Permits
   
50.042   Permit Conditions
   
50.043   Permit Modifications
   
50.044   Permits Duration
   
50.045   Permit Transfer
   
50.046   Revocation of Permit
   
50.047   Confidential Information
Discharge Regulations
   
50.055   General Discharge Prohibitions
   
50.056   Special Agreements
   
50.057   Exceptions to Discharge Criteria
   
50.058   Accidental Discharges
Industrial User Monitoring, Inspection Reports, Records Access, and Safety
   
50.065   Monitoring Facilities
   
50.066   Inspection and Sampling
   
50.067   Compliance Data Report
   
50.068   Periodic Compliance Reports
   
50.069   Maintenance of Records
   
50.070   Safety
Enforcement and Abatement
   
50.075   Issuance of Cease and Desist Orders
   
50.076   Submission Time
   
50.077   Show Cause Hearing
   
50.078   Legal Action
   
50.079   Emergency Termination of Service
   
50.080   Public Nuisance
   
50.081   Correction of Violation and Collection of Costs
   
50.082   Damage to Facilities
   
50.083   Civil Liabilities
Fees and Billing
   
50.090   Purpose
   
50.091   Types of Charges and Fees
   
50.092   Fees for Applications for Discharge
   
50.093   Inspection Fee and Tapping Fee
   
50.094   Sewer User Charges
   
50.095   Industrial Wastewater Discharge Permit Fees
   
50.096   Fees for Industrial Discharge Monitoring
   
50.097   Billing
   
50.098   Metering Device for Swimming Pools
   
50.099   Water meter required for each sewer user
Penalty; Costs
   
50.999   Civil Penalties
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 50.001 PURPOSE; POLICY.
   (A)   This chapter sets forth uniform requirements for the disposal of
wastewater in the service area of the City's wastewater treatment system. The
objectives of this chapter are:
      (1)   To protect the public health;
      (2)   To provide problem free wastewater collection and treatment
service;
      (3)   To prevent the introduction of pollutants into the municipal
wastewater treatment system which will interfere with the system operations,
will cause the City of Henderson's discharge to violate its National Pollutant
Discharge Elimination System (NPDES) permit or other applicable state
requirements, or will cause physical damage to the wastewater treatment system
facilities;
      (4)   To provide for full and equitable distribution of the cost of the
wastewater treatment system;
      (5)   To enable the City to comply with the provisions of the Federal
Clean Water Act, the General Pretreatment Regulations (40 CFR Part 403), and
other applicable federal and state laws and regulations; and
      (6)   To improve the opportunity to recycle and reclaim wastewater and
sludge from the Henderson wastewater treatment system.
   (B)   This chapter provides that all persons in the service area of the City
must have adequate wastewater treatment either in the form of a connection to
the municipal wastewater treatment system or, where the system is not
available, an appropriate private disposal system. This chapter also provides
for the issuance of permits to system users, for the regulations of wastewater
discharge volume and characteristics, for monitoring and enforcement
activities; and for the setting of fees for the full and equitable distribution
of costs resulting from the operation, maintenance, and capital recovery of the
wastewater treatment system and from other activities required by the
enforcement and administrative program established herein.
   (C)   This chapter shall apply to all persons within the city and to persons
outside the city who are, by contract or agreement with the city, users of the
municipal wastewater treatment system. Except as otherwise provided herein, the
Mayor shall administer, implement, and enforce the provisions of this chapter
in a responsible manner.
(Ord. passed 12-5-91)
§ 50.002 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   Unless the context specifically indicates otherwise, the following
terms and phrases, as used in this chapter, shall have the meanings hereinafter
designated:
   "ACT" or "THE ACT." The Federal Water Pollution Control Act, also known as
the Clean Water Act, as amended, 33 U.S.C. 1251, et. seq.
   "APPROVAL AUTHORITY." The Director in an NPDES state with an approved State
Pretreatment Program and the Administrator of the EPA in a non-NPDES state or
NPDES state without an Approved State Pretreatment Program.
   "AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OR INDUSTRIAL USER." An authorized representative
of an industrial user may be:
      (1)   A principal executive officer of at least the level of vice-
president, if the industrial user is a corporation;
      (2)   A general partner or proprietor if the industrial user is a
partnership or proprietorship, respectively;
      (3)   A duly authorized representative of the individual designated above
if such representative is responsible for the overall operation of the
facilities from which the indirect discharge originates.
   "BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND (BOD)." The quantity of oxygen utilized in the
biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory procedure,
five (5) days at 20 degrees centigrade expressed in terms of weight and
concentration (milligrams per liter (mg/1)).
   "BUILDING SEWER." A sewer conveying wastewater from the premises of a User
to the POTW.
   "CATEGORICAL STANDARDS."   National Categorical Pretreatment Standards or
Pretreatment Standards.
   "CITY." The City of Corydon, Kentucky or the Mayor and City Council of the
City.
   "COMPATIBLE POLLUTANT." Biochemical oxygen demand (BOD), suspended solids,
pH, and fecal coliform bacteria, and such additional pollutants as are now or
may be in the future specified and controlled in the Henderson NPDES permit for
its wastewater treatment works where sewer works have been designed and used to
reduce or remove such pollutants.
   "COOLING WATER." The water discharged from any use such as air conditioning,
cooling or refrigeration, or to which the only pollutant added is heat.
   "CONTROL AUTHORITY." The term "control authority" shall refer to the
"Approval Authority" defined hereinabove, or the Mayor if the city has an
approved pretreatment program under the provisions of 40 CFR, 403.11.
   "CUSTOMER." Any individual, partnership, corporation, association, or group
who receives sewer service from the City under either an express or implied
contract requiring payment to the City for such service.
   "DIRECT DISCHARGE."   The discharge of treated or untreated
wastewater directly to the waters of the Commonwealth of Kentucky.
   "DOMESTIC WASTEWATER." Wastewater that is generated by a single family,
apartment or other dwelling unit or dwelling unit equivalent containing
sanitary facilities for the disposal of wastewater and used for residential
purposes only.
   "ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY, OR EPA." The U.S. Environmental Protection
Agency, or, where appropriate, the term may also be used as a designation for
the Administrator or other duly authorized official of said agency.
   "GARBAGE." The solid wastes from the domestic and commercial preparation,
cooking, and dispensing of food, or from the handling, storage, and sale of
produce.
   "GRAB SAMPLE." A sample which is taken from a waste stream on a one-time
basis with no regard to the flow in the waste stream and without consideration
of time.
   "HOLDING TANK WASTE." Any waste from holding tanks such as vessels, chemical
toilets, campers, trailers, septic tanks and vacuum-pump tank trucks.
   "INCOMPATIBLE POLLUTANT." All pollutants other than compatible pollutants as
defined in this section.
   "INDIRECT DISCHARGE." The discharge or the introduction of non-domestic
pollutants from any source regulated under section 307 (b) or (c) of the Act,
(33 U.S.C. 1317), into the POTW (including holding tank waste discharge into
the system).
   "INDUSTRIAL USER." A source of indirect discharge which does not constitute
a "discharge of pollutants" under regulations issued pursuant to Section 402 of
the Act (33 U.S.C. 1342).
   "INTERFERENCE." The inhibition or disruption of the municipal wastewater
treatment processes or operations which contributes to a violation of any
requirement of the city's NPDES permit. The term includes prevention of sewage
sludge use or disposal by the POTW in accordance with Section 405 of the Act,
(33 U.S.C. 1345) of any criteria, guidelines, or regulations developed pursuant
to the Solid Waste Disposal Act (SWDA), the Clean Air Act, the Toxic Substances
Control Act, or more stringent state criteria (including those contained in any
state sludge management plan prepared pursuant to Title Iv of SWDA) applicable
to the method of disposal or use employed by the municipal wastewater treatment
system.
   "MAYOR." The duly elected official of the City who is charged with certain
duties and responsibilities by this chapter or his/her duly authorized
representatives.
   "NATIONAL CATEGORICAL PRETREATMENT STANDARD OR PRETREATMENT STANDARD." Any
regulation containing pollutant discharge limits promulgated by the EPA in
accordance with Section 307(b) and (c) of the Act (33 U.S.C. 1347) which
applies to a specific category of industrial users.
   "NPDES (NATIONAL POLLUTANT DISCHARGE ELIMINATION SYSTEM)." The program for
issuing, conditioning, and denying permits for the discharge of pollutants from
point sources into navigable waters, the contiguous zone, and the oceans
pursuant to Section 402 of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act, as amended.
   "NEW SOURCE." Any source, the construction of which is commenced after the
publication of proposed regulations prescribing a Section 307 (c) (33 U.S.C.
1317) categorical pretreatment standard which will be applicable to such
source, if such standard is thereafter promulgated within one hundred and
twenty (120) days of proposal in the Federal Register. Where the standard is
promulgated later than one hundred and twenty (120) days after proposal, a new
source means any source, the construction of which is commenced after the date
of promulgation of the standard.
   "PERSON." The definition of person(s) shall include, but not be limited to,
any individual, partnership, copartnership, firm, company, corporation,
association, joint stock company, trust, estate, governmental entity or any
other legal entity, or their legal representatives, agents or assigns. The
masculine gender shall include the feminine; the singular shall include the
plural where indicated by the context.
   "pH."   The logarithm (base 10) of the reciprocal of the concentration of
hydrogen ions expressed in grams per liter of solution.
   "POLLUTANT." Any dredged spoil, solid waste, incinerator residue, sewage,
garbage, sewage sludge, munitions, chemical substances, biological materials,
radioactive materials, heat, wrecked or discharged equipment, rock, sand,
cellar dirt and industrial, municipal, and agricultural waste discharged into
water.
   "POLLUTION." The man-made or man-induced alteration of the chemical,
physical, biological, and radiological integrity of water.
   "PRETREATMENT" or "TREATMENT." The reduction of the amount of pollutants,
the elimination of pollutants, or the alteration of the nature of pollutant
properties in wastewater to a less harmful state prior to or in lieu of
discharging or otherwise introducing such pollutants into a POTW. The reduction
or alteration can be obtained by physical, chemical or biological processes,
process changes, or other means, except as prohibited by 40 CFR Section 40.36
(d).
   "PRETREATMENT REQUIREMENTS." Any substantive or procedural requirement
related to pretreatment, other than a National Pretreatment Standard imposed on
an industrial user.
   "PUBLICLY OWNED TREATMENT WORKS (POTW). A treatment works as defined by
Section 212 of the Act, (33 U.S.C. 1292) which is owned in this instance by the
city. This definition includes any sewers that convey wastewater to the POTW
treatment plant, but does not include pipes, sewers, or other conveyances not
connected to a facility providing treatment. For the purpose of this chapter,
"POTW" shall also include any sewers that convey wastewaters to the POTW from
persons outside the city who are, by contract or agreement with the city, users
of the city's POTW.
   "POTW TREATMENT PLANT." That portion of the POTW designed to provide
treatment to wastewater.
   "SHALL." is mandatory; May is permissive.
   "SLUG." Any discharge of water, sewage or industrial waste which in
concentration of any given constituent or in quantity of flow exceeds for any
period of duration longer than fifteen (15) minutes more than five (5) times
the average twenty-four (24) hour concentrations of flows during normal
operation or any discharge of whatever duration that causes the sewer to
overflow or back up in an objectionable way or any discharge of whatever
duration that interferes with the proper operation of the wastewater treatment
facilities or pumping stations.
   "STATE." Commonwealth of Kentucky.
   "STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION (SIC)."   A classification pursuant to
the Standard Industrial Classification Manual issued by the Executive Office of
the President, Office of Management and Budget, 1972.
   "STORM WATER." Any flow occurring during or following any form of natural
precipitation and resulting therefrom.
   "STORM SEWER" or "STORM DRAIN." A pipe or conduit which carries storm and
surface waters and drainage, but excludes sewage and industrial wastes; it may,
however, carry cooling waters and unpolluted waters, upon approval of the
Mayor.
   "SUSPENDED SOLIDS (SS)." Total suspended matter that either floats on the
surface of, or is suspension in water, wastewater, or other liquids, and which
is removable by laboratory filtering.
   "SUPERINTENDENT." The person designated by the City to supervise the
operation of the publicly owned treatment works and who is charged with certain
duties and responsibilities by this chapter, or his duly authorized
representative.
   "TOXIC POLLUTANT." Any pollutant or combination of pollutants listed as
toxic in regulations promulgated by the Administrator of the Environmental
Protection Agency under the provisions of CWA Section 307 (a) or other Acts.
   "TWENTY-FOUR (24) HOUR FLOW PROPORTIONAL COMPOSITE SAMPLE." A sample
consisting of several sample portions collected during a 24-hour period in
which the portions of a sample are proportioned to the flow and combined to
form a representative sample.
   "USER." Any person(s) who contributes, causes or permits the contribution of
wastewater into the POTW.
   "WASTEWATER." The liquid and water-carried industrial or domestic wastes
from dwellings, commercial buildings, industrial facilities, and institutions,
whether treated or untreated, which is contributed into or permitted to enter
the POTW.
   "WASTEWATER TREATMENT SYSTEM." Defined the same at POTW.
   "WATERS OF THE STATE." All streams, lakes, ponds, marshes, water courses,
water ways, wells, springs, reservoirs, aquifers, irrigation systems, drainage
system and all other bodies or accumulations of water, surface or underground,
natural or artificial, public or private, which are contained within, flow
through, or border upon the state or any portion thereof.
(Ord. passed 12-5-91)
CONNECTION TO PUBLIC SEWERS
§ 50.011 REQUIREMENTS FOR PROPER WASTEWATER DISPOSAL.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, deposit, or permit to be
deposited in any unsanitary manner on public or private property within the
service area of the City any human or animal excrement, garbage, or other
objectionable waste.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to discharge to any waters of the State within
the service area of the City any sewage or other polluted waters, except where
suitable treatment has been provided in accordance with subsequent provisions
of this chapter.
   (C)    Except as hereinafter provided, it shall be unlawful to construct or
maintain any privy, privy vault, septic tank, cesspool, or other facility
intended or used for the disposal of sewage.
   (D)   Except as provided in (E) below, the owner of all houses, buildings,
or properties used for human occupancy, employment, recreation, or other
purposes, situated within the service area and abutting on any street, alley,
or right-of-way in which there is now located or may in the future be located a
public sanitary sewer in the service area, is hereby required at his expense to
install suitable toilet facilities therein, and to connect such facilities
directly with the proper public sewer in accordance with the provisions of this
chapter, within sixty (60) days after date of official notice to do so,
provided that said public sewer is within five hundred (500) feet of the
building drain as defined herein.
   (E)   The owner of a manufacturing facility may discharge wastewater to the
waters of the state provided that he obtains an NPDES permit and meets all
requirements of the Federal Clean Water Act, the NPDES permit, and any other
applicable local, state or federal statutes and regulations.
   (F)   Where a public sanitary sewer is not available under the provisions of
(D) above, the building sewer shall be connected to a private sewage disposal
system complying with the provisions of §50.020 and §50.021 of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 12-5-91)
§ 50.012 PHYSICAL CONNECTION TO THE PUBLIC SEWER.
   (A)   No unauthorized person shall uncover, make any connections with or
opening into, use, alter, or disturb any public sewer or appurtenance thereof
without first obtaining a written permit from the Mayor as required by §§
50.040 -
50.047 of this chapter.
   (B)    All costs and expenses incident to the installation, connection, and
inspection of the building sewer shall be borne by the owner. The owner shall
indemnify the City from any loss or damage that may directly or indirectly be
occasioned by the installation of the building sewer.
   (C)   A separate and independent building sewer shall be provided for every
building; except where one building stands at the rear of another on an
interior lot and no private sewer is available or can be constructed to the
rear building through an adjoining alley, court, yard or driveway, the building
sewer from the front building may be extended to the rear building and the
whole considered as one building sewer.
   (D)    Old building sewers may be used in connection with new buildings only
when they are found, on examination and tested by the Superintendent, to meet
all requirements of this chapter. All others must be sealed to the
specifications of the Superintendent.
   (E)   Building sewers shall conform to the following requirements:
      (1)   The minimum size of a building sewer shall be four (4) inches.
      (2)   The minimum depth of a building sewer shall be eighteen (18)
inches.
      (3)   Four (4) inch building sewers shall be laid on a grade greater than
1/8-inch per foot. Larger building sewers shall be laid on a grade that will
produce a velocity when flowing full of at least 2.0 feet per second.
      (4)   Slope and alignment of all building sewers shall be neat and
regular.
      (5)   Building sewers shall be constructed only of (1) clay sewer pipe
using rubber or neoprene compression joints of approved type; (2) ductile iron
Class 50 pipe with compression joints; (3) polyvinyl chloride pipe with rubber
compression joints; (4) such other materials of equal or superior quality as
may be approved by the Mayor. Under no circumstances will cement mortar joints
be acceptable.
      (6)   A cleanout shall be located five (5) feet outside of the building,
one (1) as it taps on to the utility's lateral and one (1) at each change of
direction of the building sewer which is greater than 45 degrees. Additional
cleanouts shall be placed not more than seventy-five (75) feet apart in
horizontal building sewers of four (4) inch nominal diameter and not more than
one hundred (100) feet apart for larger pipes. Cleanouts shall be extended to
or above the finished grade level directly above the place where the cleanout
is installed. A "Y" (wye) and 1/8 bend shall be used for the cleanout base.
Cleanouts shall not be smaller than four (4) inches on a four (4) inch pipe.
      (7)   Connections of building sewers to the public sewer system shall be
made with the appropriate existing wye or tee branch using compression type
couplings or collar type rubber joints with corrosion resisting or stainless
steel bands. Where existing wye or tee branches are not available, connections
of building services shall be made by either removing a length of pipe and
replacing it with a wye or tee fitting or cutting a clean opening in the
existing public sewer and installing a tee-saddle or tee-insert of a type
approved by the Mayor or his designated representative. All such connections
shall be made gastight and watertight.
      (8)   The building sewer may be brought into the building below the
basement floor when gravity flow from the building to the sanitary sewer is at
a grade of 1/8-inch per foot or more if possible. In cases where basement or
floor levels are lower than the ground elevation at the point of connection to
the sewer, adequate precautions by installation of check valves or other
backflow prevention devices to protect against flooding shall be provided by
the owner. In all buildings in which any building drain is too low to permit
gravity flow to the public sewer, sanitary sewage carried by such building
drains shall be lifted by an approved means and discharged to the building
sewer at the expense of the owner.
      (9)   The methods to be used in excavating, placing of pipe, joining,
testing, backfilling the trench, or other activities in the construction of a
building sewer which have not been described above shall conform to the
requirements of the building and plumbing code or other applicable rules and
regulations of the city or to the procedures set forth in appropriate
specifications of the ASTM and Water Pollution Control Federation Manual of
Practice No. 9. Any deviation from the prescribed procedures and materials must
be approved by the Superintendent before installation.
      (10)   An installed building sewer shall be gastight and watertight.
   (F)   All excavations for building sewer installation shall be adequately
guarded with barricades and lights so as to protect the public from hazard.
Streets, sidewalks, parkways, and other public property disturbed in the course
of the work shall be restored in a manner satisfactory to the City.
   (G)   No person shall make connection of roof downspouts, exterior
foundation drains, area way drains, basement drains, or other sources of
surface runoff or groundwater to a building sewer or building drain which in
turn is connected directly or indirectly to a public sanitary sewer.
   (H)   All mobile home connections must have a connective cap with clamp for
service line when not in use. Property owners of vacant mobile home lots shall
be responsible for insuring the cap is in place.
(Ord. passed 12-5-91; Am. Ord. passed 8-4-94)
Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.013 INSPECTION OF CONNECTIONS.
   (A)   The sewer connection and all building sewers from the building to the
public sewer main line shall be inspected before the underground portion is
covered by the Superintendent or his authorized representative.
   (B)   The applicant for discharge shall notify the Superintendent when the
building sewer is ready for inspection and connection to the public sewer. The
connection shall be made under the supervision of the Superintendent or his
representative.
   (C)   The Superintendent or his appointed representative shall have access
to enter private property for the purpose of making inspections and tests as
described in §50.666 of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 12-5-91)
Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.014 MAINTENANCE OF BUILDING SEWERS.
   Each individual property owner or user of the POTW shall be entirely
responsible for the maintenance of the building sewer located on private
property. This maintenance will include repair or replacement of the service
line as deemed necessary by the Superintendent to meet specifications of the
City.
(Ord. passed 12-5-91)
Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.015 PLUMBING CERTIFICATE REQUIRED.
   All non low and middle income (LMI) households must file a copy of an
approved plumbing certificate with the City. (Ord. passed 8-4-94)
PRIVATE DOMESTIC WASTEWATER DISPOSAL
§ 50.020 AVAILABILITY.
   (A)   Where a public sanitary sewer is not available under the provisions of
§
50.011(D), the building sewer shall be connected to a private wastewater
disposal system complying with the provisions of this section.
   (B)   Any residence, office, recreational facility, or other establishment
used for human occupancy where the building drain is below the elevation to
obtain a grade equivalent to 1/8-inch per foot in the building sewer but is
otherwise accessible to a public sewer as provided in §§
50.011 -
50.014, the owner shall provide a private sewage pumping station as provided in
§
50.012(E)(8).
   (C)   All newly constructed residences and/or businesses shall pay the
current tap fee and hook onto the system within 30 days of obtaining a building
permit. Billing for sewer services shall begin when residence/business is
occupied or water usage exceeds base rate.
   (D)   Temporary septic tank use in unsewered areas of the City shall be
allowed, however, when sewer lines are available, developed properties must pay
a tap fee and hook onto the public sewer system.
(Ord. - - , passed 12-5-91; Am. Ord. - - , passed 8-4-94; Am. Ord. 96-3, passed
8-6-96; Am. Ord. 98.2A, passed 8-20-98)
§ 50.021 REOUIREMENTS.
   (A)   A private domestic wastewater disposal system may not be constructed
within the service area unless and until a certificate is obtained from the
Mayor stating that a public sewer is not accessible to the property and no such
sewer is proposed for construction in the immediate future. No certificate
shall be issued for any private domestic wastewater disposal system employing
subsurface soil absorption facilities where the area of the lot is less than
that specified by the Henderson County Health Department.
   (B)   Before commencement of construction of a private sewage disposal
system, the owner shall first obtain written permission from Corydon and the
Henderson County Health Department. The owner shall supply any plans,
specifications, and other information as are deemed necessary by Corydon and
the Henderson County Health Department.
   (C)   A private sewage disposal system shall not be placed in operation
until the installation is completed to the satisfaction of the Henderson County
Health Department. They shall be allowed to inspect the work at any stage of
construction and, in any event, the owner shall notify the Henderson County
Health Department when the work is ready for final inspection, and before any
underground portions are covered.
   (D)   The type, capacity, location, and layout of a private sewage disposal
system shall comply with all recommendations of the Kentucky Department of
Natural Resources and Environmental Protection and the Henderson County Health
Department. No septic tank or cesspool shall be permitted to discharge to any
natural outlet.
   (E)   The owner shall operate and maintain the private sewage disposal
facilities in a sanitary manner at all times, at no expense to the city.
   (F)   No statement contained in this subchapter shall be construed to
interfere with any additional requirements that may be imposed by the Henderson
County Health Department.
(Ord. passed 12-5-91)Penalty, see §50.999
REGULATION OF HOLDING TANK WASTE DISPOSAL
§ 50.030 PERMIT.
   No person, firm, association or corporation shall clean out, drain, or flush
any septic tank or any other type of wastewater or excreta disposal system,
unless such person, firm, association, or corporation obtains a permit from the
city to perform such acts or services. Any person, firm, association, or
corporation desiring a permit to perform such services shall file an
application on the prescribed form. Upon any such application, said permit
shall be issued by the City when the conditions of this ordinance have been met
and providing the Mayor is satisfied the applicant has adequate and proper
equipment to perform the services contemplated in a safe and competent manner.
(Ord. passed 12-5-91) Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.031 FEES.
   For each permit issued under the provisions of this chapter, an annual
service charge therefore shall be paid to the City to be set as specified in §§
50.090 -
50.097. Any such permit granted shall be for one full fiscal year or fraction
of the fiscal year, and shall continue in full force and effect from the time
issued until the ending of the fiscal year unless sooner revoked, and shall be
nontransferable. The number of the permit granted hereunder shall be plainly
painted on each side of each motor vehicle used in the conduct of the business
permitted hereunder.
(Ord. passed 12-5-91) Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.032 DESIGNATED DISPOSAL LOCATIONS.
   The Superintendent shall designate approved locations for the emptying and
cleansing of all equipment used in the performance of the services rendered
under the permit herein provided for, and it shall be a violation hereof for
any person, firm, association or corporation to empty or clean such equipment
at any place other than a place so designated.
(Ord. passed 12-5-91)
§ 50.033 REVOCATION OF PERMIT.
   Failure to comply with all the provisions of this subchapter shall be
sufficient cause for the revocation of such permit by the City. The possession
within the service area by any person of any motor vehicle equipped with a body
type and accessories of a nature and design capable of serving a septic tank of
wastewater or excreta disposal system cleaning unit shall be prima facie
evidence that such person is engaged in the business of cleaning, draining, or
flushing septic tanks or other wastewater or excreta disposal systems within
the service area of the City.
(Ord. passed 12-5-91)
APPLICATIONS FOR DOMESTIC WASTEWATER DISCHARGE
AND INDUSTRIAL WASTEWATER DISCHARGE PERMITS
§ 50.040 APPLICATION FOR DISCHARGE OF DOMESTIC WASTEWATER.
   (A)   All users or prospective users which generate domestic wastewater
shall make application to the city for written authorization to discharge to
the municipal wastewater treatment system. Applications shall be required from
all new dischargers as well as for any existing discharger desiring additional
service. Connection to the municipal sewer shall not be made until the
application is received and approved by the Mayor, the building sewer is
installed in accordance with §§
50.011 -
50.014 of this chapter and an inspection has been performed by the
Superintendent or his representative.
   (B)   The receipt by the City of a prospective customer's application for
service shall not obligate the City to render the service. If the service
applied for cannot be supplied in accordance with this chapter and the City's
rules and regulations and general practice, the connection charge will be
refunded in full, and there shall be no liability of the City to the
application for such service, except that conditional waivers for additional
services may be granted by the Mayor for interim periods if compliance may be
assured within a reasonable period of time.
(Ord. passed 12-5-91) Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.041 INDUSTRIAL WASTEWATER DISCHARGE PERMITS.
   (A)   General Requirements. All industrial users proposing to connect to or
to contribute to the POTW shall obtain a wastewater discharge permit before
connecting to or contributing to the POTW. All existing industrial users
connected to or contributing to the POTW shall obtain a discharge permit within
one hundred and eighty (180) days after the effective date of this chapter.
   (B)   Applications.   Applications for discharge permits shall be required
as follows:
      (1)   Users required to obtain a wastewater discharge permit shall
complete and file with the Mayor application in the form prescribed by the
City, and accompanied by the appropriate fee. Existing users shall apply for a
wastewater contribution permit within sixty (60) days after the effective date
of this chapter, and proposed new users shall apply at least ninety (90) days
prior to connecting to or contributing to the POTW.
      (2)   The application shall be in the prescribed form of the city and
shall include, but not be limited to, the following information: name, address
and SIC number of application; wastewater volume; wastewater constituents and
characteristics; discharge variations - daily, monthly, seasonal and thirty
(30) day peaks; a description of all toxic materials handled on the premises;
site plans, floor plans, mechanical and plumbing plans and details showing all
sewers and appurtenances by size, location and evaluation; a description of
existing and proposed pretreatment and/or equalization facilities and any other
information deemed necessary by the Mayor.
      (3)   Any user who elects or is required to construct new or additional
facilities for pretreatment shall as part of the application for wastewater
discharge permit submit plans, specifications and other pertinent information
relative to the proposed construction to the City for approval. Plans and
specifications submitted for approval must bear the seal of a professional
engineer registered to practice engineering in the State of Kentucky. A
wastewater discharge permit shall not be issued until such plans and
specifications are approved. Approval of such plans and specifications shall in
no way relieve the user from the responsibility of modifying the facility as
necessary to produce an effluent acceptable to the City under the provisions of
this chapter.
      (4)   If additional pretreatment and/or O & M will be required to meet
the pretreatment standards, the application shall include the shortest schedule
by which the user will provide such additional pretreatment. The completion
date in this schedule shall not be later than the compliance date established
for the applicable pretreatment standard. For the purpose of this subsection,
"pretreatment standard" shall include either a national pretreatment standard
or a pretreatment standard imposed by §§
50.055 -
50.058 of this chapter.
      (5)   The City will evaluate the data furnished by the user and may
require additional information. After evaluation and acceptance of the data
furnished, the City may issue a wastewater discharge permit subject to terms
and conditions provided herein.
      (6)   The receipt by the City of a prospective customer's application for
wastewater discharge permit shall not obligate the City to render the
wastewater collection and treatment service. If the service applied for cannot
be supplied in accordance with this chapter or the City's rules and regulations
and general practice, the application shall be rejected and there shall be no
liability of the City to the applicant of such service.
      (7)   The Mayor will act only on applications containing all the
information required in this section. Persons who have filed incomplete
applications will be notified by the Mayor that the application is deficient
and the nature of the deficiency and will be given thirty (30) days to correct
the deficiency. If the deficiency is not corrected within thirty (30) days or
within such extended period as allowed by the Mayor, the Mayor shall submit the
application to the City with a recommendation that it be denied and notify the
applicant in writing of such action.
(Ord. passed 12-5-91) Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.042 PERMIT CONDITIONS.
   (A)   Wastewater discharge permits shall be expressly subject to all
provisions of this chapter and all other applicable regulations, user charges,
and fees established by the city. Permits may contain the following:
      (1)   The unit charge or schedule of user charges and fees for the
wastewater to be discharged to a community sewer;
      (2)   Limits on the average and maximum wastewater constituents and
characteristics;
      (3)   Limits on average and maximum rate and time of discharge or
requirements and equalization;
      (4)   Requirements for installation and maintenance of inspection and
sampling facilities;
      (5)   Specifications for monitoring programs which may include sampling
locations; frequency of sampling; number, types, and standards for tests and
reporting schedule;
      (6)   Compliance schedules;
      (7)   Requirements for submission of technical reports and discharge
reports;
      (8)   Requirements for maintaining and retaining plant records relating
to wastewater discharge as specified by the City and affording City access
thereto;
      (9)   Requirements for notification of the City of any new introduction
of wastewater constituents or any substantial change in the volume or character
of the wastewater constituents being introduced into the wastewater treatment
system;
      (10)   Requirements for notification of slug discharges;
      (11)   Other conditions as deemed appropriate by the City to ensure
compliance with this chapter.
(Ord. passed 12-5-91)
§ 50.043 PERMIT MODIFICATIONS.
   Within nine (9) months of the promulgation of a National Categorical
Pretreatment Standards, the wastewater discharge permit of users subject to
such standards shall be revised to require compliance with such standards
within the time frame prescribed by such standard. A user with an existing
wastewater discharge permit shall submit to the Mayor within one hundred and
eighty (180) days after the promulgation of an applicable Federal Categorical
Pretreatment Standard the information required by paragraphs 5.2(b)(2) and 5.2
(b)(3). The terms and conditions of the permit may be subject to modification
by the City during the term of the permit as limitations or requirements are
modified or other just cause exists. The user shall be informed of any proposed
changes in this permit at least thirty (30) days prior to the effective date of
the change. Any changes or new conditions in the permit shall include a
reasonable time schedule for compliance.
(Ord. passed 12-5-91) Penalty, see §50.999
§ 50.044 PERMIT DURATION.
   Permits shall be issued for a specified time period, not to exceed five (5)
years. A permit may be issued for a period less than a year or may be stated to
expire on a specific date. The user shall apply for permit reissuance a minimum
of one hundred and eighty (180) days prior to the expiration of the user's
existing permit.
(Ord. passed 12-5-91)
§ 50.045 PERMIT TRANSFER.
   Wastewater discharge permits are issued to a specific user for a specific
operation. A wastewater discharge permit shall not be reassigned or transferred
or sold to a new owner, new user, different premises, or a new or changed
operation without the approval of the city. Any succeeding owner or user shall
also comply with the terms and conditions of the existing permit.
(Ord. passed 12-5-91)
§ 50.046 REVOCATION OF PERMIT.
   Any permit issued under the provisions of this chapter is subject to being
modified, suspended, or revoked in whole or in part during its term for cause
including, but not limited to, the following:
   (A)   Violation of any terms or conditions of the wastewater discharge
permit or other applicable federal, state or local law or regulations.
   (B)   Obtaining a permit by misrepresentation or failure to disclose fully
all relevant facts.
   (C)   A change in any condition that requires either a temporary or
permanent reduction or elimination of the permitted discharge.
   (D)   Intentional failure of a user to accurately report the discharge
constituents and characteristics or to report significant changes in plant
operations or wastewater characteristics.
(Ord. passed 12-5-91)
§ 50.047 CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION.
   (A)   Information and data on a user obtained from reports, questionnaires,
permit applications, permits and monitoring programs and from inspections shall
be available to the public or other governmental agency without restriction
unless the user specifically requests and is able to demonstrate to the
satisfaction of the Mayor that the release of such information would divulge
information, processes, or methods of production entitled to protection as
trade secrets of the user.
   (B)   When requested by the person furnishing the report, the portions of a
report which might disclose trade secrets or secret processes shall not be made
available for inspection by the public but shall be made available to
governmental agencies for uses related to this chapter, or the City's or user's
NPDES permit; provided, however, that such portions of a report shall be
available for use by the state or any state agency in judicial review or
enforcement proceedings involving the person furnishing the report. Wastewater
constituents and characteristics shall not be recognized as confidential
information.
   (C)   Information accepted by the Mayor as confidential shall not be
transmitted to any governmental agency or to the general public by the Mayor
until and unless prior and adequate notification is given to the user.
(Ord. passed 12-5-91) Penalty, see §
50.999
DISCHARGE REGULATIONS
§ 50.055 GENERAL DISCHARGE PROHIBITIONS.
   No user shall contribute or cause to be contributed, directly or indirectly,
any pollutant or wastewater which will interfere with the operation or
performance of the POTW. These general prohibitions apply to all such users of
a POTW whether or not the user is subject to National Categorical Pretreatment
Standards or any other national, state, or local pretreatment standards or
requirements. A user may not contribute the following substance to any POTW:
   (A)   Any liquids, solids or gasses which by reason of their nature or
quantity are, or may be, sufficient either alone or by interaction with other
substances to cause fire or explosion or be injurious in any other way to the
POTW or to the operation of the POTW. At no time shall two successive readings
on an explosion hazard meter, at the point of discharge into the system (or at
any point in the system) be more than five percent (5%) nor any single reading
over twenty percent (20%) of the Lower Explosive Limit (LEL) of the meters.
Prohibited materials include, but are not limited to, gasoline, kerosene,
naphtha, benzene, toluene, xylene, ethers, alcohols, ketones, aldehydes,
peroxides, chlorates, perchlorates, bromates, carbides, hydrides, and sulfides
and any other substances which the City, state, or EPA has notified the user is
a fire hazard or a hazard to the system.
   (B)   Solid or viscous substances which may cause obstruction to the flow in
a sewer or other interference with the operation of the wastewater treatment
facilities such as, but not limited to: grease, garbage with particles greater
than one-half inch (1/2") in any dimension, paunch manure, bones, hair, hides,
fleshings, entrails, whole blood, feathers, ashes, cinders, sand, spent lime,
stone or marble dust, metal, glass, straw, shavings, grass clippings, rags,
spent grains, spent hops, waste paper, wood, plastics, gas, tar, asphalt
residues, residues from refining or processing of fuel or lubricating oil, mud,
glass, grinding or polishing wastes.
   (C)   Any wastewater having a pH lower than 5.0 or higher than 9.5 or
wastewater having any other corrosive property capable of causing damage or
hazard to structures, equipment, and/or personnel of the POTW.
   (D)   Any wastewater containing any toxic pollutants, chemical element
elements, or compounds in sufficient quantity, either singly or by interaction
with other pollutants, to injure or interfere with any wastewater treatment
process, constitute a hazard to humans or animals, create a toxic effect in the
receiving waters of the POTW, or to exceed the limitation set forth in a
Categorical Pretreatment Standard. A toxic pollutant shall include, but not be
limited to, any pollutant identified pursuant to Section 307 (a) of the Act.
   (E)   Any noxious or malodorous liquids, gases, or solids which either
singly or by interaction with other wastes are sufficient to create a public
nuisance or hazard to life or are sufficient to prevent entry into the sewers
for maintenance and repair.
   (F)   Any substance which may cause the POTW's effluent or any other product
of the POTW such as residues, sludges, or scums to be unsuitable for
reclamation and reuse or to interfere with the reclamation process. In no case
shall a substance discharged to the POTW cause the POTW to be in non-compliance
with sludge use or disposal criteria, guidelines or regulations developed under
Section 405 of the Act; any criteria, guidelines or regulations affecting
sludge use or disposal developed pursuant to the Solid Waste Disposal Act, the
Clean Air Act, the Toxic Substances Control Act, or state criteria applicable
to the sludge management method being used.
   (G)   Any substance which will cause the POTW to violate its NPDES permit or
the receiving stream water quality standards.
   (H)   Any wastewater causing discoloration of the wastewater treatment plant
effluent to the extent that the receiving stream water quality requirements
would be violated such as, but not limited to, dye wastes and vegetable tanning
solutions.
   (I)   Any wastewater having a temperature which will inhibit biological
activity in the POTW treatment plant resulting in interference, but in no case
wastewater with a temperature at the introduction into the POTW which exceeds
40 degrees C (104 degrees F).
   (J)   Any pollutants, including oxygen demanding pollutants (BOD, etc.),
released at a flow rate and/or pollutant concentration which a user knows or
has reason to know will cause interference to the POTW.
   (K)   Any waters or wastes causing an unusual volume of flow or
concentration of waste constituting "slug" as defined herein.
   (L)   Any wastewater containing any radioactive wastes or isotopes of such
halflife or concentration as may exceed limits established by the City in
compliance with applicable state or federal regulations.
   (M)   Any wastewater which causes a hazard to human life or creates a public
nuisance.
   (N)   Any waters or wastes containing fats, wax, grease or oil, whether
emulsified or not, in excess of one hundred (100) mg/1 or containing substances
which may solidify or become viscous at temperatures between thirty-two (32) or
one hundred and fifty (150) degrees F (0 and 65 C).
   (O)   Any stormwater, surface water, groundwater, roof runoff, subsurface
drainage, uncontaminated cooling water or unpolluted industrial process waters
to any sanitary sewer. Stormwater and all other unpolluted drainage shall be
discharged to such sewers as are specifically designated as storm sewers, or to
a natural outlet approved by the City and the Kentucky Department of Natural
Resources and Environmental Protection. Industrial cooling water or unpolluted
process waters may be discharged on approval of the Mayor and the Kentucky
Department of Natural Resources and Environmental Protection to a storm sewer
or natural outlet.
   (P)   Any underground garbage or ground garbage except as described below:
      (1)   Ground garbage may be admitted to the sewer system where the
following apply:
         (a)   The term "garbage" consists of only food wastes;
         (b)   The size of any ground particle will not hinder the flow of
normal flow conditions prevailing in the sewer conduit to which the particle is
contributory;
         (c)   The shredded garbage shall have no particle greater than one-
half inch (1/2") in any dimension; and
         (d)   The regulatory agency has approval authority on the installation
of all garbage grinders with a motor equal to or greater than three-fourths (3/
4's) horsepower.
(Ord. passed 12-5-91) Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.056 SPECIAL AGREEMENTS.
   Nothing in this subchapter shall be construed so as to prevent any special
agreement or arrangement between the City and any user of the wastewater
treatment system whereby wastewater of unusual strength or character is
accepted into the system and specially treated subject to any payments or user
charges as may be applicable. The making of such special agreements or
arrangements between the City and the user shall be strictly limited to the
capability of the POTW to handle such wastes without interfering with unit
operations or sludge use and handling or allowing the pass through of
pollutants which would result in a violation of the Henderson, Kentucky NPDES
Permit. No special agreement or arrangement may be made without documentation
by the industry of the use of good management practice in the reduction of
wastewater volume and strength.
(Ord. passed 12-5-91) Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.057 EXCEPTIONS TO DISCHARGE CRITERIA.
   (A)   Application for exception.
      (1)   Non-residential users of the POTW may apply for a temporary
exception to the restrictive wastewater discharge criteria listed in §
50.055 of this chapter. Exceptions can be granted according to the following
guidelines.
      (2)   The Mayor shall allow applications for temporary exceptions at any
time. However, the Mayor shall not accept an application if the applicant has
submitted the same or substantially similar application within the preceding
year and the same has been denied by the City. All applications for an
exception shall be in writing and shall contain sufficient information for
evaluation of each of the factors to be considered by the City in its review of
the application.
   (B)   Conditions.
      (1)   All exceptions granted under this subchapter shall be temporary and
subject to revocation at any time by the Superintendent upon reasonable notice.
      (2)   The user requesting the exception must demonstrate to the City that
he is making a concentrated and serious effort to maintain high standards of
operation control and housekeeping levels, etc., so that discharges to the POTW
are being minimized. If negligence is found, permits will be subject to
termination. The user requesting the exception must demonstrate that compliance
with stated concentration and quantity standards is technically or economically
unfeasible and the discharge, if accepted, will not:
         (a)   Interfere with the normal collection and operation of the
wastewater treatment system;
         (b)   Limit the sludge management alternatives available and increase
the cost of providing adequate sludge management;
         (c)   Pass through the POTW in quantities and/or concentrations that
would cause the Henderson POTW to violate its NPDES permit.
      (3)   The user must show that the exception, if granted, will not cause
the discharger to violate its enforced federal pretreatment standards unless
the exception is granted under the provisions of the applicable pretreatment
regulations.
      (4)   A surcharge shall be applied to any exception granted under this
subchapter. These surcharges shall be applied for that concentration of the
pollutant for which the variance has been granted in excess of the
concentration stipulated in this chapter based on the average daily flow of the
user.
   (C)   Review of application by the City.
      (1)   All applications for an exception shall be reviewed by the Mayor
and the Henderson Water and Sewer Department. If the application does not
contain sufficient information for complete evaluation, the Mayor shall notify
the applicant of the deficiencies and request additional information. The
applicant shall have thirty (30) days following notification by the Mayor to
correct such deficiencies. This thirty (30) day period may be extended by the
City upon application and for just cause shown. Upon receipt of a complete
application, the Mayor shall evaluate same within thirty (30) days and shall
submit his recommendations to the City at its next regularly scheduled meeting.
      (2)   The City shall review and evaluate all applications for exceptions
and shall take into account the following factors:
         (a)   Whether or not the applicant is subject to a National
Pretreatment Standard containing discharge limitations more stringent than
those on the issued permit and grant an exception only if such exception may be
granted within limitations of applicable federal regulations;
         (b)   Whether or not the exception would apply to discharge of a
substance classified as a toxic substance under regulations promulgated by the
Environmental Protection Agency under the provisions of Section 307(a) of the
Act (33 U.S.C. 1317), and then grant an exception only if such exception may be
granted within the limitations of applicable federal regulations;
         (c)   Whether or not the granting of an exception would create
conditions that would reduce the effectiveness of the treatment works taking
into consideration the concentration of said pollutant in the treatment works
influent and the design capability of the treatment works;
         (d)   Whether or not the City of Henderson's treatment facility is
willing to accept the wastewater from the applicant;
         (e)   The cost of pretreatment or other types of control techniques
which would be necessary for the user to achieve effluent reduction, but
prohibitive costs alone shall not be the basis for granting the exception;
         (f)   The age of equipment and industrial facilities involved to the
extent that such factors affect the quality or quantity of wastewater
discharge;
         (g)   The process employed by the user and process changes available
which would affect the quality or quantity of wastewater discharge;
         (h)   The engineering aspects of various types of pretreatment or
other control techniques available to the user to improve the quality or
quantity of wastewater discharge.
(Ord. passed 12-5-91)
§ 50.058 ACCIDENTAL DISCHARGE.
   (A)   Protection from accidental discharge.
      (1)   All industrial users shall provide such facilities and institute
such procedures as are reasonably necessary to prevent or minimize the
potential for accidental discharge into the POTW of waste regulated by this
chapter from liquid or raw material storage areas, from truck and rail car
loading and unloading areas, from in-plant transfer or processing and materials
handling areas and from dike areas or holding ponds of any waste regulated by
this chapter. The wastewater discharge permit of any user who has a history of
significant leaks, spills or other accidental discharge of waste regulated by
this chapter shall be subject on a case-by-case basis to a special permit
condition or requirement for the construction of facilities or establishment of
procedures which will prevent or minimize the potential for such accidental
discharge. Facilities to prevent accidental discharge of prohibited materials
shall be provided and maintained at the user's expense. Detailed plans showing
the facilities and operating procedures shall be submitted to the City before
the facility is constructed.
      (2)   The review and approval of such plans and operating procedures will
in no way relieve the user from the responsibility of modifying the facility to
provide the protection necessary to meet the requirements of this chapter.
   (B)   Notification of accidental discharge.
      (1)   Any person causing or suffering from any accidental discharge shall
immediately notify the Superintendent (or his designated official) by telephone
to enable counter measures to be taken by the Superintendent to minimize damage
to the POTW, the health and welfare of the public, and the environment.
      (2)   This notification shall be forwarded, within five (5) days of the
date of occurrence, by a detailed written statement describing the cause of the
accidental discharge and the measures being taken to prevent future occurrence.
      (3)   Such notification will not relieve the user of liability for any
expense, loss or damage to the POTW, fish kills, or any other damage to person
or property; nor shall such notification relieve the user of any fines, civil
penalties, or other liability which may be imposed by this subchapter on state
or federal law.
   (C)   Notice to employees. A notice shall be permanently posted on the
user's bulletin board or other prominent place advising employees whom to call
in the event of a dangerous discharge. Employers shall insure that all
employees who may cause or suffer such dangerous discharge to occur are advised
of the emergency notification procedure.
(Ord. passed 12-5-91) Penalty, see §
50.999
INDUSTRIAL USER MONITORING, INSPECTION REPORTS,
RECORDS ACCESS, AND SAFETY
§ 50.065 MONITORING FACILITIES.
   (A)   The installation of a monitoring facility shall be required for all
industrial users having wastes which receive pretreatment, are otherwise
altered or regulated before discharge, or are unusually strong and thereby
subject to a surcharge. Monitoring facility shall be a manhole or other
suitable facility approved by the Superintendent.
   (B)   When, in the judgment of the Mayor, there is a significant difference
in wastewater constituents and characteristics produced by different operations
of a single user the Mayor may require that separate monitoring facilities be
installed for each separate source of discharge.
   (C)   Monitoring facilities that are required to be installed shall be
constructed and maintained at the user's expense. The purpose of the facility
is to enable inspection, sampling, and flow measurement of the wastewater
produced by a user. If sampling or metering equipment is also required by the
City, it shall be provided and installed at the user's expense.
   (D)   The monitoring facility will normally be required to be on the user's
premises outside of the building. The Superintendent may, however, when such a
location would be impractical or cause undue hardship on the user, allow the
facility to be constructed in the public street right-of-way with the approval
of the public agency having jurisdiction of that right-of-way and located so
that it will not be obstructed by landscaping or parked vehicles.
   (E)   There shall be ample room in or near such sampling manhole or facility
to allow accurate sampling and preparation of samples for analysis. The
facility, sampling, and measuring equipment shall be maintained at all times in
a safe and proper operating condition at the expense of the user.
   (F)   Whether constructed on public or private property, the monitoring
facilities shall be constructed in accordance with the Superintendent's
requirements and all applicable local agency construction standards and
specifications. Construction must be completed within one hundred and eighty
(180) days following written notification unless an extension is granted by the
Mayor.
(Ord. passed 12-5-91) Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.066 INSPECTION AND SAMPLING.
   (A)   The city shall inspect the facilities of any user to ascertain whether
the purpose of this chapter is being met and all requirements are being
complied with. Persons or occupants of premises where wastewater is created or
discharged shall allow the city or their representative ready access at all
reasonable times to all parts of the premises for the purpose of inspection,
sampling, records examination or in the performance of any of their duties.
   (B)   The City, approval authority, and EPA shall have the right to set up
on the user's property such devices as are necessary to conduct sampling
inspection, compliance monitoring and/or metering operations. Where a user has
security measures in force which would require proper identification and
clearance before entry into their premises, the user shall make necessary
arrangements with their security guards so that upon presentation of suitable
identification, personnel from the city, approval authority and EPA will be
permitted to enter, without delay, for the purpose of performing their specific
responsibility. The City or its representatives shall have no authority to
inquire into any manufacturing process beyond that point having a direct
bearing on the level and sources of discharge to the sewers, waterways, or
facilities for waste treatment.
(Ord. passed 12-5-91)
§ 50.067 COMPLIANCE DATA REPORT.
   Within one hundred and eighty (180) days following the date for final
compliance with applicable pretreatment standards or, in the case of a new
source, following commencement of the introduction of wastewater into POTW, any
user subject to pretreatment standards and requirement shall submit to the
Mayor a report indicating the nature and concentration of all pollutants in the
discharge from the regulated process which are limited by pretreatment standard
and requirements and the average maximum daily flow for these process units in
the user facility which are limited by such pretreatment standards or
requirements. The report shall state whether the applicable pretreatment
standards or requirements are being met on a consistent basis and, if not, what
additional O & M and/or pretreatment is necessary to bring the user into
compliance with the applicable pretreatment standards or requirements. This
statement shall be signed by an authorized representative of the industrial
user and certified to by a qualified professional.
(Ord. passed 12-5-91) Penalty, see S 50.999
§ 50.068 PERIODIC COMPLIANCE REPORTS.
   (A)   Any user subject to a pretreatment standard, after the compliance date
of such pretreatment standard, or, in the case of a new source, after
commencement of the discharge into the POTW shall submit to the City during the
months of June and December, unless required more frequently in the
pretreatment standard or by the City, a report indicating the nature and
concentration of pollutants in the effluent which are limited by such
pretreatment standards. In addition, this report shall include a record of all
daily flows which during the reporting period exceed the average daily flow. At
the discretion of the Mayor and in consideration of such factors as local high
or low flow rates, holidays, budget cycles, etc., the Mayor may agree to alter
the months during which the above reports are to be submitted.
   (B)   The City may impose mass limitation on users where the imposition of
mass limitations are appropriate. In such cases, the report required by §
50.068(A) shall indicate the mass of pollutants regulated by pretreatment
standards in the effluent of the user.
   (C)   The reports required by this subchapter shall contain the results of
sampling and analysis of the discharge, including the flow and the nature and
concentration, or production and mass where requested by the Mayor, of
pollutants contained therein which are limited by the applicable pretreatment
standards. The frequency of monitoring shall be prescribed in the wastewater
discharge permit or the pretreatment standard. All analyses shall be performed
in accordance with procedures established by the Administrator pursuant to
Section 304 (g) of the Act and contained in 40 CFR, Part 136, and amendments
thereto or with any other test procedures approved by the Mayor. Sampling shall
be performed in accordance with the techniques approved by the Superintendent.
(Ord. passed 12-5-91) Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.069 MAINTENANCE OF RECORDS.
   (A)   Any industrial user subject to the reporting requirements established
in this chapter shall maintain records of all information resulting from any
monitoring activities required by this subchapter. Such records shall include
for all samples:
      (1)   The date, exact place, method, and time of sampling and the names
of the persons taking the samples;
      (2)   The dates analyses were performed;
      (3)   Who performed the analyses;
      (4)   The analytical techniques/methods used;
      (5)   The results of such analyses.
   (B)   Any industrial user subject to the reporting requirement established
in this subsection shall be required to retain for a minimum of three (3) years
all records of monitoring activities and results (whether or not such
monitoring activities are required by this subsection) and shall make such
records available for inspection and copying by the City, Director of the
Kentucky Department of Natural Resources and Environmental Protection, or the
Environmental Protection Agency. This period of retention shall be extended
during the course of any unresolved litigation regarding the industrial user or
when requested by the City, the approval authority, or the Environmental
Protection Agency.
§ 50.070 SAFETY.
   While performing the necessary work on private properties, the
Superintendent or duly authorized employees of the city shall observe all
safety rules applicable to the premises established by the company, and the
company shall be held harmless for injury or death to the city employees, and
the city shall indemnify the company against loss or damage to its property by
city employees and against liability claims and demands for personal injury or
property damage asserted against the company and growing out of the monitoring
and sampling operation, except as such may be caused by negligence or failure
of the company to maintain safe conditions.
(Ord. passed 12-5-91)
ENFORCEMENT AND ABATEMENT
§ 50.075 ISSUANCE OF CEASE AND DESIST ORDERS.
   (A)   When the Mayor finds that a discharge of wastewater has taken place in
violation of prohibitions or limitations of this chapter, or the provisions of
a wastewater discharge permit, the Mayor shall issue an order to cease and
desist, and direct that these persons not complying with such prohibitions,
limit requirements, or provisions to:
      (1)   Comply forthwith.
      (2)   Comply in accordance with a time schedule set forth by the City.
      (3)   Take appropriate remedial or preventive action in the event of a
threatened violation.
      (4)   Surrender his applicable user's permit if ordered to do so after a
show cause hearing.
   (B)   Failure of the Mayor to issue a Cease and Desist Order to a violating
user shall not in any way relieve the user from any consequences of a wrongful
or illegal discharge.
(Ord. passed 12-5-91)
§ 50.076 SUBMISSION TIME.
   When the Mayor finds that a discharge of wastewater has been taking place in
violation of prohibitions or limitations prescribed in this chapter, or
wastewater source control requirements, effluent limitations of pretreatment
standards, or the provisions of a wastewater discharge permit, the Mayor shall
require the user to submit for approval, with such modifications as it deems
necessary, a detailed time schedule of specific actions which the user shall
take in order to prevent or correct a violation of requirements. Such schedule
shall be submitted to the City within thirty (30) days of the issuance of the
cease and desist order.
(Ord. passed 12-5-91) Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.077 SHOW CAUSE HEARING.
   (A)   The City may order any user who causes or allows any unauthorized
discharge to enter the POTW to show cause before the Mayor and City Council why
the proposed enforcement action should not be taken. A notice shall be served
on the user specifying the time and place of a hearing to be held by the City
Council regarding the violation, the reasons why the action is to be taken, the
proposed enforcement action, and directing the user to show cause before the
City Council why the proposed enforcement action should not be taken. The
notice of the hearing shall be served personally or by registered or certified
mail (return receipt requested) at least ten (10) days before the hearing.
   (B)   The Mayor and City Council may itself conduct the hearing and take the
evidence, or may designate any of its members or any officer or employee of the
City to:
      (1)   Issue in the name of the Mayor and City Council notices of hearings
requesting the attendance and testimony of witnesses and the production of
evidence relevant to any matter involved in such hearings;
      (2)   Take the evidence;
      (3)   Transmit a report of the evidence and hearing, including
transcripts and other evidence, together with recommendations to the city for
action thereon.
   (C)   At any hearing held pursuant to this chapter, testimony taken must be
under oath and recorded. The transcript, so recorded, will be made available to
any member of the public or any party to the hearing upon payment of the usual
charges thereof.
   (D)   After the Mayor and City Council have reviewed the evidence, they may
issue an order to the user responsible for the discharge directing that,
following a specified time period, the sewer service be discontinued unless
adequate treatment facilities, devices, or other related appurtenances shall
have been installed on existing treatment facilities, and that these devices or
other related appurtenances are properly operated. Further orders and
directives as are necessary and appropriate may be issued.
(Ord. passed 12-5-91)
§ 50.078 LEGAL ACTION.
   If any person discharges sewage, industrial wastes, or other wastes into the
City's wastewater disposal system contrary to the provisions of this chapter,
federal or state pretreatment requirements, or any order of the City, the City
Attorney may commence an action for appropriate legal and/or equitable relief
in the Chancery Court of this county.
(Ord. passed 12-5-91)
§ 50.079 EMERGENCY TERMINATION OF SERVICE.
   In the event of an actual or threatened discharge to the POTW of any
pollutant which in the opinion of the Superintendent presents or may present an
imminent and substantial endangerment to the health or welfare of persons, or
cause interference with POTW, the Superintendent, or in his absence the person
then in charge of the treatment works, shall immediately notify the Mayor of
the nature of the emergency. The Superintendent shall also attempt to notify
the industrial user or other person causing the emergency and request their
assistance in abating same. Following consultation with the aforementioned
officials of the City, or in their absence such elected officials of the City
as may be available, the Superintendent shall temporarily terminate the service
of such user or users as are necessary to abate the condition when such action
appears reasonably necessary. Such service shall be restored by the
Superintendent as soon as the emergency situation has been abated or corrected.
(Ord. passed 12-5-91)
§ 50.080 PUBLIC NUISANCE.
   Discharges of wastewater in any manner in violation of this chapter or of
any order issued by the City as authorized by this chapter is hereby declared a
public nuisance and shall be corrected or abated as directed by the City. Any
person creating a public nuisance shall be subject to the provisions of the
City codes or ordinances governing such nuisance.
(Ord. passed 12-5-91)
§ 50.081 CORRECTION OF VIOLATION AND COLLECTION OF COSTS.
   In order to enforce the provisions of this chapter, the City shall correct
any violation hereof. The cost of such correction shall be added to any sewer
service charge payable by the person violating the chapter or the owner or
tenant of the property upon which the violation occurred and the City shall
have such remedies for the collection of such costs as it has for the
collection of sewer service charges.
(Ord. passed 12-5-91)
§ 50.082 DAMAGE TO FACILITIES.
   When a discharge of water causes an obstruction, damage, or any physical or
operational impairment to facilities, the City shall assess a charge against
the user for the work required to clean or repair the facility and add such
charge to the user's sewer service charge.
(Ord. passed 12-5-91)
§ 50.083 CIVIL LIABILITIES.
   (A)   Any person or user who intentionally or negligently violates any
provision of this chapter, requirements, or conditions set forth in permit duly
issued, or who discharges wastewater which causes pollution or violates any
cease and desist order, prohibition, effluent limitation, national standard or
performance, pretreatment, or toxicity standard, shall be liable civilly.
   (B)   The City shall sue for such damage in any court of competent
jurisdiction. In determining the damages, the court shall take into
consideration all relevant circumstances, including, but not limited to, the
extent of harm caused by the violation, the nature and persistence of the
violation, the length of time over which the violation occurs, and the
correcting action, if any.
(Ord. passed 12-5-91)
Cross-reference
   See Penalty, §
50.999
FEES AND BILLING
§ 50.090 PURPOSE.
   It is the purpose of this subchapter to provide for the equitable recovery
of costs from users of the City's wastewater treatment system, including costs
of operation, maintenance, administration, bond service costs, capital
improvements, depreciation and equitable cost recovery of EPA administered
federal wastewater grants.
(Ord. passed 12-5-91)
§ 50.091 TYPES OF CHARGES AND FEES.
   The charges and fees as established in the City's schedule of charges and
fees may include, but not be limited to:
   (A)   Inspection fee and tapping fee.
   (B)   Fees for applications for discharge.
   (C)   Sewer use charges.
   (D)   Surcharge fees.
   (E)   Industrial wastewater discharge permit fees.
   (F)   Fees for industrial discharge monitoring.
   (G)   All new residential customers will pay a one hundred and fifty dollar
($150) refundable deposit. For owners of owner-occupied homes, the deposit
shall be refundable after three (3) years with a good payment history. For
owners of rental properties or other residential properties that are not owner-
occupied, the deposit will be held until close of the customer's account and
applied to any outstanding balance with the balance being refunded to the
customer.
   (H)   Residents, including rental residents, will not receive service if an
outstanding sewer bill exists.
   (I)   In the case of any mobile home or other structure that is presently
not connected to the sewer system or other public utility and upon written
verification that said mobile home or structure will be removed from the
premises by August 1, 1996, and not, thereafter, replaced shall not be billed
for sewer service nor assessed any fines or penalties.
   (J)   All newly constructed residences and/or businesses shall pay the
current tap fee and hook onto the system within thirty (30) days of obtaining a
Building Permit. A $50.00 service charge will be applied to the tap on fee if
payment exceeds the stated thirty (30) day period. Billing for sewer service
shall begin when residence/business is occupied, or water usage exceeds base
rate.
   (K) Other fees as the City may deem necessary to carry out the requirements
of this chapter.
(Ord. - - , passed 12-5-91; Am. Ord. - - , passed 8-4-94; Am. Ord. 962, passed
1-4-96; Am. Ord. 96-3, passed 8-16-96; Am. Ord. - -, passed 2-19-98; Am. Ord.
98.1A, passed 8-7-03; Am. Ord. 2005.03A, passed 6-16-05; Am. Ord. 2009.01,
passed 2-5-09; Am. Ord. 2011.01a, passed 3-5-10; Am. Ord. 2015.02, passed 8-6-
15; Am. Ord. 2016.03, passed 8-4-16)
§ 50.092 FEES FOR APPLICATIONS FOR DISCHARGE.
   A fee may be charged when a user or prospective user makes an application
for discharge as required by §§
50.040 -
50.047 of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 12-5-91)
§ 50.093 INSPECTION FEE AND TAPPING FEE.
   (A)   An inspection fee and tapping fee for a building sewer installation
shall be paid to the City's sewer department at the time the application is
filed. Fees shall cover the costs of inspecting new and/or existing plumbing
within subject building establishments as well as inspection of building
sewers, property sewers, and sewer service lines and connections to the public
sewers. The inspection fee and tapping fee shall be set by the Mayor and City
Council.
   (B)   Tap fees inside or outside city limits. Sewer tap fees for all
apartment houses or mobile home parks served by the city shall be charged at
the following rate:
   Tap line size            The higher of $100 per lot or the
                  lump sum amount for the line size
   6"               $1,250   (plus   time   and   material)
   8"               $1,500   (plus   time   and   material)
   10"               $2,000   (plus   time   and   material)
   12"               $2,500   (plus   time   and   material)
   (C) Residential subdivision sewer taps inside or outside city limits.
   Tap line size            The higher of $100 per lot or the
                  lump sum amount for the line size
   6"               $2,500 (plus time and material)
   8"               $3,000 (plus time and material)
   10"               $4,500 (plus time and material)
   12"               $5,000 (plus time and material)
   (D)   Commercial or industrial subdivision sewer taps.
   Tap line size            The higher of $150 per acre or the
                  lump sum amount for line size. 
      6"            $2,500 (plus   time and material)
      8"            $3,500 (plus   time and material)
      10"            $4,000 (plus   time and material)
      12"            $5,000 (plus   time and material)
   (E)   Capacity connection fees inside or outside city limits.
      6"            $1,000
      8"            $1,500
      10"            $4,000
      12"            $9.000
      14"            $12,000
      16"            $15,000
   (F)   Plan review for single family residential, apartments and mobile home
parks shall be one hundred fifty dollars ($150.00); for subdivisions two
hundred dollars ($200.00) and for commercial and/or industrial subdivisions
three hundred dollars ($300.00).
   (G)   All fees in subsections (B), (C), (D), (E), (F) are payable in
advance. Time and material costs will be billed upon completion of construction
of sewer tap.
   (H)   Repairs to any sewer utility property or equipment caused by damage by
other parties shall be charged on a time and material cost basis to the party
responsible for the damage.
   (I)   Time and material cost charges shall be computed as follows: Time
shall be computed for the total number of many hours expended by the city's
contractor multiplied by the appropriate hourly rate for each of the
contractor's employees. The hourly rate shall include the employee's base rate
plus all associated costs including taxes, insurance and fringe benefits.
   (J)   Tap fees for new construction.
      (1)   Tap fees for new construction, residential equals two thousand
dollars ($2,000). All new tie-in construction on main sewer lines will be
performed by the city up to the property line. Any person(s) found cutting into
the main sewer lines will be fined no less than one hundred dollars ($100) and
no more than one thousand dollars ($1,000) and assumes repair and/or
replacement costs, paid in full prior to restoration of service.
      (2)   Tap fees for new construction, businesses, equals two thousand
dollars ($2,000). Construction of all new tie ins will be performed by the city
up to the property line. Re-connection fees for all properties owners, equals
two hundred and fifty dollars ($250).
   Material shall be computed on the basis of current purchase cost to the city
for all materials, equipment, and supplies used.
(Ord. - - , passed 12-5-91; Am. Ord. - - , passed 8-4-94; Am. Ord. 962, passed
1-4-96; Am. Ord. 96-3, passed 8-16-96; Am. Ord. - -, passed 2-19-98; Am. Ord.
99.03A, passed 8-24-99; Am. Ord. 98.1A, passed 8-7-03; Am. Ord. 2005.03A,
passed 6-16-05; Am. Ord. 2009.01, passed 2-5-09; Am. Ord. 2011.01A, passed 3-5-
10; Am. Ord. 2015.02, passed 8-6-15; Am. Ord. 2016.03, passed 8-4-16) Penalty,
see §50.999
§ 50.094 SEWER USER CHARGES.
   (A)   Classification of users. Users of the wastewater system shall be
classified into two (2) general classes or categories depending upon the user's
contribution of wastewater loads; each class user being identified as follows:
      (1)   Class I: Those users discharging only sanitary waste or whose
average biochemical oxygen demand is two hundred fifty milligrams per liter
(250 mg/l) by weight or less, and whose suspended solids discharge is two
hundred fifty milligrams per liter (250 mg/l) by weight or less.
      (2)   Class II: Those users whose average biochemical oxygen demand
exceeds two hundred fifty milligrams per liter concentration (250 mg/l) by
weight and whose suspended solids exceeds two hundred fifty milligrams per
liter concentration (250 mg/l).   
   (B)   Determination of costs. The Mayor and City Council shall establish
monthly rates and charges for the use of the wastewater system and for services
supplied by the wastewater system. Said charges shall be based on a two-tier
system. The initial tier will consist of a minimum monthly fee paid by all
users of the wastewater collection and treatment system. It will be based upon
recovery of the city's bonded indebtedness and a unit charge per 1,000 gallons
of use based upon recovery of billing and accounting costs, operation and
maintenance costs.
      (1)   All users who fall under Class I shall pay a minimum monthly fee
and a single unit charge expressed as dollars per 1,000 gallons of water
purchased ($/1,000 gallons) with the following formula:
         Cd = Cdt/N
         Cu = Ct/Vt(Vu)
         Cd = Charge to user for recovery of debt service
         Cdt = Total debt service charge per year
         Cu = Charge to user per unit time
         Ct = Total O & M costs per unit time
         N = Total number of sewer customers
         Vt = Total volume of waste per unit time
         Vu = Volume contributed by a user per unit time
      (2)   All users who fall within the Class II classification shall pay the
debt service charge and the base unit charge per 1,000 gallons of water
purchased as for the Class I users, and in addition shall pay a surcharge rate
on the excessive amounts of biochemical oxygen demand suspended solids and
other pollutants in direct proportion to the actual discharge quantities.
      (3)   The volume of water purchased which is used in the calculation of
sewer use charges may be adjusted by the City if a user purchases a significant
volume of water for a consumptive use and does not discharge it to the public
sewers (i.e., filling swimming pools, industrial heating, humidifying
equipment, etc.). The user shall be responsible for documenting the quantity of
water discharged to the public sewer. Owners of swimming pools have the option
of measuring pool water with an approved meter device, purchase of which is the
pool owner's responsibility.
      (4)   When the total of other pollutants, suspended solids and/or
biochemical oxygen demand quantities discharged into the treatment works is in
excess of those described hereinbefore, the following formula shall be used to
compute the appropriate user charge:
         Cs = [Bc(B) + Sc(S) + Pc(P)]Vu
         Cd = Charge to users for recovery of debt service
         Cdt = Total debt service charge per year
         N = Total number of sewer customers
         Cu = Charge to user per unit time
         Ct = Total O&M costs per unit time
         Vt = Total volume of waste per unit time
         Vu = Volume contributed by a user per unit time
         CS = Surcharge for excessive strength wastewater
         Bc = O&M cost for treatment of a unit of BOD
         Sc = O&M cost for treatment of a unit of SS
         Pc = O&M cost for treatment of a unit of any pollutant
         B = Concentration of BOD from a user above a base level
         S = Concentration of SS from a user above a base level
         P = Concentration of any pollutant from a user above a base level
      (5)   Users discharging only sanitary waste will be charged in accordance
with the Class I model while those discharging higher strength wastes will be
charged in accordance with Class I and II models.
      (6)   Values for pollutants discharged by individual users will be
determined by the manner described in this chapter.
      (7)   Operation, maintenance, and depreciation costs are estimated for
the first year of operation in order to determine the initial user charge. The
charges will be adjusted one year after initial start-up and then biennially
thereafter to reflect actual O&M costs associated with wastewater treatment.
      (8)   U.S.E.P.A. regulations which govern the Kentucky State Loans,
require that the operation, maintenance and depreciation portion of the user
charge be based on a flat rate per thousand gallons rather than on a decreasing
water usage increase. Therefore, this portion of the user charge system will be
based on a flat rate. The debt service portion will be charged to the customers
at a flat rate.
      (9)   Surcharge for higher strength wastes. At such time that a user
discharges a higher strength waste than average sewage, an equitable surcharge
will be levied based upon costs of chemicals, time and maintenance required to
treat the extra component of waste.
      (10)   User charge system update. The user charge system will be reviewed
and updated on a biennial basis, or more frequently if deemed appropriate.
      (11)   Operation, maintenance, depreciation, and debt service costs and
water usage by user category is used to calculate average annual usage and the
associated cost of the user charge system. A detailed breakdown of the current
sewer use charges for each residential and commercial customer and A.B.
Chandler School are as follows:
      Usage   (gal./mo.)      Residential and Commercial         School 
      0-2000            $39.55                $233.09
      3000                46.20                    239.74
      4000                52.85                    246.38
      5000                59.50                    253.03
      6000                66.14                     259.68
      7000                72.79                   266.33
      8000               79.44                    272.98
      9000                86.09                    279.62
      10000                92.74                    286.27
      20000                - -                   352.75
      30000                - -                   419.23
      40000                - -                   485.71
      50000                - -                   552.19
(Ord. passed 12-5-91; Am. Ord. passed 8-4-94; Am. Ord. 2000-02A, passed 4-20-
00; Am. Ord. 2007.02A, passed 3-2-07; Am. Ord. 2013-03, passed 2-26-13; Am.
Ord. 2019.03, passed 8-15-19)
§ 50.095 INDUSTRIAL WASTEWATER DISCHARGE PERMIT FEES.
   A fee may be charged for the issuance of an industrial wastewater discharge
permit in accordance with §
50.040 - §
50.047 of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 12-5-91)
§ 50.096 FEES FOR INDUSTRIAL DISCHARGE MONITORING.
   Fees may be collected from industrial users having pretreatment or other
discharge requirements to compensate the city for the necessary compliance
monitoring and other administrative duties of the pretreatment program.
(Ord. passed 12-5-91)
§ 50.097 BILLING.
   (A)   The billing for normal domestic wastewater services shall consist of
monthly billing in accordance with the rates specified by the City, subject to
net and gross rates.
   (B)   Sewer bills will be mailed during the last five (5) days of each
month. Payment is due by the fifteenth (15th) of the month unless the fifteenth
(15th) falls on a weekend or holiday, in which case payment is due by 5:00 p.m.
on the first business day following such weekend or holiday.
   (C)   A penalty of ten percent (10%) will be added to the total amount of
the sewer bill on the sixteenth (16th) of the month.
   (D)   The water service cutoff date shall be ten (10) days following the
fifteenth (15th) of the month for non-payment of sewer bill.
   (E)   A sales tax of six percent (6%) and other applicable taxes will be
added to the total amount of the monthly sewer bill.
   (F)   A service reconnect fee of twenty-five dollars ($25.00) shall be
charged for each sewer service cut-off for non-payment. This may be in addition
to reconnect fees for water service charged by the Henderson County Water
District.
   (G)   Each customer sharing a water meter will be charged the minimum
monthly sewer service charge. In case of non-payment by either
party, responsibility for the total sewer bill will be that of the person in
whose name the water service is in.
(Ord. - - , passed 12-5-91)
   (H)   Upon payment of a sewer bill in full, bills for sewer services will
not be issued for uninhabited residential dwellings and other structures where
water service is disconnected.
   (I)   The property owner is solely responsible for notifying tenants to pay
the current deposit at the City Office. In the event a tenant leaves an
outstanding sewer bill that is not covered by a deposit, the property owner as
shown on the real estate records maintained by Henderson County shall be
responsible for any unpaid balances.
   (J)   Sewer service shall be withheld from a property where an outstanding
sewer bill exists.
   (K)   The city or the Mayor, at its discretion may direct the matter of non-
payment to the City Council and a short, repayment plan in full, including the
seventy-five dollar ($75) reconnection fee shall be voted on by the Council and
if approved at least fifty percent (50%) of the amount due will be paid in
twenty-four (24) hours, the remaining balance paid in seven (7) days. Temporary
service may be restored under the conditions approved for repayment. Voiding
the agreement and/or contract will result in disconnection and the matter
referred to the City Attorney for collection.
(Ord. - - , passed 8-4-94; Am. Ord. 96-2, passed 1-4-96; Am. Ord. 96-3, passed
8-6-96; Am. Ord. - -, passed 2-19-98; Am. Ord. 2005.03A, passed 6-16-05; Am.
Ord. 2009.01, passed 2-5-09; Am. Ord. 2012.01, passed 3-1-12; Am. Ord. 2015.02,
passed 8-6-15; Am. Ord. 2016.03, passed 8-4-16)
§ 50.098 METERING DEVICE FOR SWIMMING POOLS.
   Owners of swimming pools have the option of reading the water meter before
filling a pool and after the pool is filled and bringing the reading to the
City Office in order to receive an adjustment of their sewer bill within ten
(10) days of filling the pool. A sewer bill adjustment for filling a swimming
pool may only be granted one (1) time per calendar year per sewer customer.
Sewer adjustments for filling a swimming pool shall be granted in the amount of
one hundred percent (100%) of the amount of the sewer bill attributable to the
filling of the swimming pool, except in no event shall the monthly bill be
reduced to an amount less than the base sewer rate or minimum monthly charge
provided in the sewer rate ordinance. In order to receive the adjustment, the
sewer customer shall, within ten (10) days of filling the pool provide evidence
satisfactory to the city establishing the amount of water used in filling the
pool. Sewer bill adjustments for water leaks may be granted in the discretion
of the Mayor on a case by case basis year per sewer customer upon a showing
that a leak occurred on the portion of the water lines and facilities for which
the customer has responsibility and that the leaked water did not go into the
sanitary sewer. Questionable requests may be brought before the City Council
for a decision on whether to grant the request. All leak adjustment requests
after the first such request must be brought before City Council for a decision
on whether to grant the request.
(Ord. 96-3, passed 8-6-96; Am. Ord. - -, passed 2-19-98; Am. Ord. 98.la, passed
8-7-03; Am. Ord. 2005.03A, passed 6-16-05; Am. Ord. 2009.01, passed 2-5-09; Am.
Ord. 2015.02, passed 8-6-15; Am. Ord. 2016.03, passed 8-4-16)
§ 50.099 WATER METER REQUIRED FOR EACH SEWER USER.
   (A)   Beginning September 5, 2013, a separate water meter shall be required
for each user if the Corydon Wastewater Collection System.
   (B)   Existing situations where one (1) meter serves multiple users at the
same property may continue, subject to the following conditions:
      (1)   The owner of the property shall be the proper billing party and
shall be responsible for and shall pay for all sewer charges associated with
that property.
      (2)   Only at such time as a separate water meter is installed and
operational for each user at the property may the sewer billing be placed in
the names of the individual users.
      (3)   Charges shall be made at the effective sewer rates based upon water
usage as calculated from the shared meter. A minimum monthly sewer charge shall
be charged for each user connected to the shared water meter.
   (C)   The City Clerk is directed to begin billing all accounts affected by
this section to the property owner as reflected on the applicable water service
billings for the subject property.
(Ord. 2013.07, passed 9-5-13)
§ 50.999 CIVIL PENALTIES.
   (A)   Any user who is found to have violated an order of the City or who
willfully or negligently failed to comply with any provision of this chapter,
and the order, rules, regulations and permits issued hereunder, shall be guilty
of a misdemeanor and fined not less than fifty and 00/100 dollars ($50.00) or
more than five hundred and 00/100 dollars ($500.00) for each offense. Each day
of which a violation shall occur or continue shall be deemed a separate and
distinct offense. In addition to the penalties provided herein, the City may
recover reasonable attorney's fees, court costs, court reporters' fees and
other expenses of litigation by appropriate suit at law against the person
found to have violated this chapter or the orders, rules, regulations, and
permits issued hereunder.
   (B)   Any person who knowingly makes any false statements, representation or
certification in any application, record, report, plan or other document filed
or required to be maintained pursuant to this chapter, or wastewater discharge
permit, or who falsifies, tampers with, or knowingly renders inaccurate any
monitoring device or method required under this chapter, shall be, upon
conviction, guilty of a misdemeanor and punished by a fine of not more than one
thousand and 00/100 dollars ($1,000.00) or by imprisonment for not more than
six (6) months, or by both.
   (C)   Any person found cutting into the main sewer line shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and fined no less than one hundred and 00/100 dollars ($100) and no
more than one thousand and 00/100 dollars ($1,000).
   (D)   Any person found tampering with a water meter shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and fined no less than $100 or more than $500, plus the cost to
repair or replace the meter.
(Ord. passed 12-5-91; Am. Ord. passed 8-4-94)
CHAPTER 51: GAS CODE
Section
   
51.01   Southern Gas Code adopted
§ 51.01 SOUTHERN GAS CODE ADOPTED.
   The City hereby adopts by reference the Southern Gas Code, latest edition,
for the purpose of establishing standards to govern the installation,
operation, and maintenance of al gas lines and gas piping within the city
limits. A copy of the latest edition of the Southern Gas Code shall be
maintained in the office of the City Clerk and shall be available for public
inspection during normal office hours.
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
         Chapter
            
70.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
            
71.   TRAFFIC RULES
            
72.   PARKING REGULATIONS
            
73.   BICYCLES AND MOTORCYCLES
CHAPTER 70: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
70.01   Definitions
   
70.02   Required obedience to traffic directions
   
70.03   Powers and duties of Police Department
   
70.04   Authority for enforcement
   
70.05   Temporary regulations
Traffic-Control Devices
   
70.15   Signal legends
   
70.16   Establishment and maintenance of traffic-control devices
   
70.17   Obedience to signals
   
70.18   Interference with signals
   
70.19   Unauthorized signals or markings
   
70.20   Device to be legible and in proper position
   
70.21   Temporary disregard of devices by police officers
 
   
70.99   General penalty
§ 70.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this title, the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   "AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLES." Vehicles of a fire department or police
department, vehicles of the Commonwealth Attorney's office when on official
business, and ambulances on an authorized emergency run.
   "BOULEVARD." Any legally designated street at which cross traffic is
required to stop before entering or crossing such boulevard.
   "BUSINESS DISTRICT." Any portion of any street between two consecutive
intersections in which 50% or more of the frontage on either side of the street
is used for business purposes.
   "CROSSWALK." That portion of the roadway included within the extension of
the sidewalk across any intersection, and such other portions of the roadway
between two intersections, as may be legally designated as crossing places and
marked by stanchions, paint lines, or otherwise.
   "CURB." The boundary of that portion of the street used for vehicles whether
marked by curbstones or not.
   "FUNERAL PROCESSION." Two (2) or more vehicles accompanying the body of a
deceased person when each vehicle has its headlights on or is displaying a
pennant attached in such a manner as to be clearly visible to approaching
traffic. (KRS 189.378 (1))
   "INTERSECTION." That part of the public way embraced within the extensions
of the street lines of two or more streets which join at an angle whether or
not one such street crosses the other.
   "OFFICIAL TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES." All signs, signals, warnings,
directions, markings, and devices placed or erected or maintained by authority
of the Mayor.
   "ONE-WAY STREET." A street on which vehicles are permitted to move in one
direction only.
   "OPERATOR." Every person who is in actual physical control of the guidance,
starting, and stopping of a vehicle.
   "PARK." When applied to vehicles, to leave a vehicle standing, whether
occupied or not, for a period of time longer than is necessary to receive or
discharge passengers or property.
   "PEDESTRIAN." Any person afoot.
   "PLAY STREET." Any street or portion thereof so designated by the Mayor and
reserved as a play area for children, from which all traffic is barred, except
vehicles to and from abutting properties.
   "POLICE DEPARTMENT." Those persons or agencies authorized to perform the
duties of §
70.03 or any other acts necessary to implement and enforce this traffic code.
   "PUBLIC WAY." The entire width between property lines of every way,
dedicated passway, or street set aside for public travel, except bridle paths
and foot paths.
   "REVERSE TURN." To turn a vehicle on any street in such a manner as to
proceed in the opposite direction.
   "RIGHT-OF-WAY." The privilege of the immediate and preferential use of the
street.
   "ROADWAY." That portion of any street, improved, designated, or ordinarily
used for vehicular travel.
   "SIDEWALK." That portion of the street between the curb and the property
line intended for the use of pedestrians.
   "STOPPING." As applied to vehicles, to stop a vehicle longer than is
actually necessary to receive or discharge passengers.
   "STREET." Every public way, including alleys.
   "TRAFFIC." Pedestrians, ridden or herded animals, vehicles, buses, and other
conveyances, individually or collectively, while using any street for the
purpose of travel.
   "VEHICLE." Includes all agencies for the transportation of persons or
property over or upon the public highways of the Commonwealth and all vehicles
passing over or upon the highways. "MOTOR VEHICLE." Includes all vehicles, as
defined above except, road rollers; road graders; farm tractors; vehicles on
which power shovels are mounted; construction equipment customarily used only
on the site of construction and which is not practical for the transportation
of persons or property upon the highways; vehicles that travel exclusively upon
rails; vehicles propelled by electric power obtained from overhead wires while
being operated within any municipality or where the vehicles do not travel more
than five (5) miles beyond the city limits of any municipality; vehicles
propelled by muscular power; and electric low-speed scooters.
(KRS 189.010 (19))
§ 70.02 REQUIRED OBEDIENCE TO TRAFFIC DIRECTIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to fail or refuse to comply with
any lawful order, signal, or direction given by a uniformed police officer, or
to fail or refuse to comply with any of the traffic regulations of this traffic
code.
   (B)   The provisions of this traffic code shall apply to the driver of any
vehicle owned or used in the service of the United States government, this
state, county, or city, and it shall be unlawful for any such driver to violate
any of the provisions of this traffic code, except as otherwise permitted in
this traffic code or by state statute.
   (C)   Every person propelling any pushcart or riding a bicycle or an animal
on any roadway, and every person driving any animal on any roadway, and every
person driving any animal-drawn vehicle shall be subject to the provisions of
this traffic code. applicable to the driver of any vehicle, except those
provisions of this traffic code which by their very nature can have no
application.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.03 POWERS AND DUTIES OF POLICE DEPARTMENT.
   It shall be the duty of the Police Department to direct all traffic in
conformance with this traffic code and to enforce the traffic regulations as
set forth in this traffic code, to make arrest for traffic violations, to
investigate accidents, and to cooperate with other officers of the city in the
administration of the traffic laws, and in developing ways and means to improve
traffic conditions.
§ 70.04 AUTHORITY FOR ENFORCEMENT.
   Authority to direct and enforce all traffic regulations of this city in
accordance with the provisions of this traffic code and to make arrests for
traffic violations is given to the Police Department, and, except in case of
emergency, it shall be unlawful for any other person to direct or attempt to
direct traffic by voice, hand, whistle, or any other signal.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.05 TEMPORARY REGULATIONS.
   When required for the convenience and safety of the public and to alleviate
unusual traffic problems, the Mayor or other authorized city official shall, at
his discretion, have authority to impose such traffic regulations as he may
deem necessary for temporary periods not to exceed two weeks. If these
temporary regulations are necessary for a period longer than two weeks, the
City Clerk shall be notified in writing of the extended order.
§ 70.15 TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES SIGNAL LEGENDS.
   Whenever traffic is regulated or controlled exclusively by a traffic-control
sign or signs exhibiting the words "Go," "Caution," or "Stop," or exhibiting
different colored lights for purposes of traffic control, the following colors
only shall be used, and these terms and lights shall indicate and be obeyed as
follows:
   (A)   Green alone or "Go": Vehicular traffic facing the signal may proceed
straight through or turn right or left unless a sign at such place prohibits
either such turn. However, vehicular traffic shall yield the right-of-way to
other vehicles and to pedestrians lawfully within the intersection at the time
such signal is exhibited.
   (B)   Steady yellow alone or "Caution" when shown following the green or
"Go" signal: Vehicular traffic facing a steady yellow signal is thereby warned
that the related green movement is being terminated or that a red indication
will be exhibited immediately thereafter when vehicular traffic shall not enter
the intersection. Vehicular traffic facing a steady yellow signal may enter and
clear the intersection.
   (C)   Red alone or double red or "Stop": Vehicular traffic facing the signal
shall stop before entering the nearest crosswalk at an intersection or at such
other point as may be indicated by a clearly visible line, and shall remain
standing until green or "Go" is shown alone.
   (D)   Flashing red alone: Vehicular traffic facing the signal shall stop
before entering the nearest crosswalk at an intersection or at such other point
as may be indicated by a clearly visible line, and shall not again proceed
until it can do so without danger.
   (E)   Flashing amber alone: Vehicular traffic facing the signal shall reduce
its speed and proceed cautiously across the intersection controlled by such
signal.
   (F)   "Yield Right-of-Way": Vehicular traffic facing the "Yield Right-of-
Way" sign shall bear the primary responsibility of safely entering the primary
intersecting or merging right-of-way. All traffic facing the sign shall yield
the right-of-way to all vehicles and pedestrians within such primary
intersecting or merging right-of-way. No vehicle facing a "Yield Right-of-Way"
sign shall enter the merging or intersecting right-of-way at a speed in excess
of 15 miles per hour, except that this speed limit shall not apply to vehicles
entering an expressway.
   (G)   Lane lights: When lane lights are installed over any street for the
purpose of controlling the direction of flow of traffic, vehicular traffic
shall move only in traffic lane: over which green arrows appear.   However,
when flashing amber lights appear above a lane all left turns shall be made
from that lane. Where red arrows appear above such lanes, vehicles shall not
move against them. If flashing yellow lights show above a lane, that lane shall
be used only for passing and for left turns unless a sign at such place
prohibits such turn.
Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Traffic-control signals, see KRS 189.338
§ 70.16 ESTABLISHMENT AND MAINTENANCE OF TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES.
   The city shall establish and maintain all official traffic-control devices
necessary within the city. All traffic-control devices, including signs, shall
be employed to indicate one particular warning or regulation, shall be uniform,
and as far as possible shall be placed uniformly. All traffic-control devices
and signs shall conform to required state specifications.
§ 70.17 OBEDIENCE TO SIGNALS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the driver of any vehicle to disobey the
signal of any official traffic-control device placed in accordance with the
provisions of this traffic code or of a traffic barrier or sign erected by any
of the public departments or public utilities of the city, or any electric
signal, gate, or watchman at railroad crossings, unless otherwise directed by a
police officer. However, the type and the right to or necessity for such
barrier or sign must be approved by the city.
   (B)   Such sign, signal, marking, or barrier shall have the same authority
as the personal direction of a police officer.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.18 INTERFERENCE WITH SIGNALS.
   No person shall without authority attempt to or in fact alter, deface,
injure, knock down, or remove any official control device or any railroad sign
or signal, or any inscription, shield, or insignia thereon, or any part
thereof.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.19 UNAUTHORIZED SIGNALS OR MARKINGS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, maintain, or display on
or in view of any street any unauthorized sign, signal, marking, or device
which purports to be or is an imitation of or resembles an official traffic
device or railroad sign or signal which attempts or purports to direct the
movement of traffic, or which conceals or hides from view or interferes with
the effectiveness of any official control device or any railroad sign or
signal. No person shall place or maintain, nor shall any public authority
permit on any street, any traffic sign or signal bearing any commercial
advertising. Nothing in this section shall be construed as restricting any
public department or public utility of the city in any emergency or temporarily
from marking or erecting any traffic barrier or sign whose placing has been
approved by the city.
   (B)   Every such prohibited sign, signal, or marking is declared to be a
public nuisance and the city is empowered forthwith to remove it or cause it to
be removed.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.20 DEVICE TO BE LEGIBLE AND IN PROPER POSITION.
   No provision of this traffic code for which signs or any other traffic-
control device is required shall be enforceable against an alleged violator if
at the time and place of the alleged violation the required device was not in
proper position and sufficiently legible to be seen by an ordinarily observant
person.
§ 70.21 TEMPORARY DISREGARD OF DEVICES BY POLICE OFFICERS.
   In an emergency any police officer may at his discretion disregard traffic-
control lights or signals or established regulations in order to facilitate the
movement of traffic.
§ 70.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any provision of this traffic code where no other penalty
is specifically provided shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and fined not less
than $20 nor more than $500.
CHAPTER 71: TRAFFIC RULES
Section
Operation Generally
   
71.01   Obstructing traffic
   
71.02   Reverse or U turns
   
71.03   Backing vehicles
   
71.04   Vehicles crossing sidewalks
   
71.05   Speed limit
   
71.06   Truck weight limit
Accidents
   
71.15   Duty of operator
   
71.16   Accident report
Prohibitions
   
71.25   Operator of vehicle to drive carefully
   
71.26   Right-of-way of emergency vehicles; following emergency vehicles;
driving over fire hose
   
71.27   Smoke emission or other nuisance
Funeral Processions
   
71.35   Funeral processions
Parades
   
71.40   Definitions
   
71.41   Permit required
   
71.42   Application for permit
   
71.43   Standards for issuance of permit
   
71.44   Notice of rejection of permit
   
71.45   Appeal procedure when permit denied
   
71.46   Alternative permit
   
71.47   Notice to City Attorney when permit issued
   
71.48   Contents of permit
   
71.49   Duties of permittee
   
71.50   Public conduct during parades
   
71.51   Revocation of permit
 
   
71.99   Penalty
OPERATION GENERALLY
§ 71.01 OBSTRUCTING TRAFFIC.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to operate any vehicle or permit it to remain
standing in any street in such manner as to create an obstruction thereof.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to enter any
intersection or crosswalk unless there is sufficient space on the other side of
the intersection or crosswalk to accommodate the vehicle without obstructing
the passage of other vehicles or pedestrians, notwithstanding the indication of
any traffic-control signal which may be located at the intersection or
crosswalk.
   (C)   Any intersection deemed by the city to be of special or critical
importance to the movement of traffic shall be marked in such distinctive
manner as to indicate such importance. Should the operator of any vehicle enter
any intersection so marked when there is insufficient room on the other side of
the intersection to accommodate the vehicle, the indication of any traffic-
control signal notwithstanding, he shall be deemed to have violated this
division rather than division (B) above.
Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.02 REVERSE OR U TURNS.
   The operator of any vehicle shall not turn such vehicle so as to proceed in
the opposite direction unless such movement can be made in safety without
interfering with other traffic.
(KRS 189.330(8)) Penalty, see § 71.99
§ 71.03 BACKING VEHICLES.
   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to back the vehicle at
any intersection for the purpose of executing a turning movement. A vehicle
from any parking position shall be backed by the operator in such manner as to
proceed on the same side of the roadway in the lawful direction of travel.
Penalty, see § 71.99
§ 71.04 VEHICLES CROSSING SIDEWALKS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to drive within
any sidewalk space except at a permanent or temporary driveway or by special
permit from the Mayor or other authorized city official.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to drive the
vehicle out of any alley, driveway, building, or lot and across a sidewalk, or
its extension across the alley, unless the vehicle has been brought to a
complete stop immediately prior to crossing the sidewalk or its extension. On
entering the roadway from the alley, driveway, or building the operator shall
yield the right-of-way to all vehicles approaching on the roadway. The operator
of any vehicle intending to cross a sidewalk and turn into an alley from the
roadway may do so at low speed and with caution.
Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.05 SPEED LIMIT.
   (A)   The speed limit of all motor vehicles over and upon all streets and
highways within the city which are maintained by the state shall be the same as
the speed limits which are posted by the state.
   (B)   The speed limit of all motor vehicles over and upon all streets and
highways within the city, which are within a designated school zone area as may
be on a state-maintained highway, shall be 20 miles per hour during the hours
of 7:30 a.m. through 8:30 a.m. and 2:00 p.m. through 3:30 p.m.
   (C)   The speed limit of all motor vehicles over and upon all other streets
and highways within the city shall be 15 miles per hour except U.S. 60 (Main
Street), Highway 145, and Highway 266, where the speed limit shall be 35 miles
per hour where designated by the state.
   (D)   Any person violating this section or failing to stop or yield at
intersections so marked shall, upon conviction, be fined not less than $10 nor
more than $100 for each offense.
(Ord., passed 6-11-88; Am. Ord. 2015.01, passed 5-12-15)
§ 71.06 TRUCK WEIGHT LIMIT.
   (A)   No person shall operate on any street or public way in the city any
truck which exceeds 36,000 pounds gross weight, including the load.
   (B)   The fine for violating this weight limit shall be the same as set
forth in the fine schedule of KRS 189.990 (2) (a) .
ACCIDENTS
§ 71.15 DUTY OF OPERATOR.
   It shall be the duty of the owner of, operator of, or passenger in any motor
vehicle which is involved in an accident in when any person is injured or
property damaged to stop immediately and ascertain the extent of the injury or
damage and render such assistance as may be needed.
Penalty, see §
71.99
Statutory reference:
   Duty in case of accident, see KRS 189.580
§ 71.16 ACCIDENT REPORT.
   The operator, owner, or passenger involved in an accident resulting in the
injury or death of any person, or an accident in which property is damaged,
shall immediately report the accident or property damage to the Police
Department.
Penalty, see §
71.99
PROHIBITIONS
§ 71.25 OPERATOR OF VEHICLE TO DRIVE CAREFULLY.
   (A)   The operator of any vehicle upon a highway shall operate the vehicle
in a careful manner, with regard for the safety and convenience of pedestrians
and other vehicles upon the highway.
   (B)   No person shall willfully operate any vehicle on any highway in such a
manner as to injure the highway.
(KRS 189.290) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.26 RIGHT-OF-WAY OF EMERGENCY VEHICLES; FOLLOWING EMERGENCY VEHICLES;
DRIVING OVER FIRE HOSE.
   (A)   Upon the approach of an emergency vehicle equipped with, and
operating, one or more flashing, rotating, or oscillating red or blue lights
visible under normal conditions from a distance of 500 feet to the front of
such vehicle; or when the driver is giving audible signal by siren, exhaust
whistle, or bell, the driver of every other vehicle shall yield the right-of-
way, immediately drive to a position parallel to, and as close as possible to,
the edge or curb of the highway clear of any intersection, and stop and remain
in such position until the emergency vehicle has passed, except when otherwise
directed by a police officer or firefighter.
   (B)   Upon the approach of any emergency vehicle operated in conformity with
the provisions of division (A) above, the operator of every vehicle shall
immediately stop clear of any intersection and shall keep such position until
the emergency vehicle has passed, unless directed otherwise by a police officer
or firefighter.
   (C)   No operator of any vehicle, unless he is on official business, shall
follow any emergency vehicle being operated in conformity with the provisions
of division (A) above closer than 500 feet, nor shall he drive into, park the
vehicle into, or park the vehicle within the block where the vehicle has
stopped in answer to an emergency call or alarm, unless he is directed
otherwise by a police officer or firefighter.
   (D)   No vehicle, train, or other equipment shall be driven over any
unprotected hose of a fire department when the hose is laid down on any street,
private driveway, or track for use at any fire or fire alarm unless the fire
department official in command consents that the hose be driven over.
   (E)   Upon approaching a stationary emergency vehicle or public safety
vehicle, when the emergency vehicle or public safety vehicle is giving a signal
by displaying alternately flashing yellow, red, red and white, red and blue, or
blue lights, a person who drives an approaching vehicle shall, while proceeding
with due caution:
      (1)   Yield the right-of-way by moving to a lane not adjacent to that of
the authorized emergency vehicle, if:
         (a)   The person is driving on a highway having at least four lanes
with not fewer than two lanes proceeding in the same direction as the
approaching vehicle; and
         (b)   If it is possible to make the lane change with due regard to
safety and traffic conditions; or
      (2)   Reduce the speed of the vehicle, maintaining a safe speed to road
conditions, if changing lanes would be impossible or unsafe.
   (F)   This section does not operate to relieve the person who drives an
emergency vehicle from the duty to operate the vehicle with due regard for the
safety of all persons using the highway.
(KRS 189.930) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.27 SMOKE EMISSION OR OTHER NUISANCE.
   Every vehicle when on a highway shall be so equipped as to make a minimum of
noise, smoke, or other nuisance, to protect the rights of other traffic, and to
promote the public safety.
(KRS 189.020) Penalty, see §
71.99
FUNERAL PROCESSIONS
§ 71.35 FUNERAL PROCESSIONS.
   (A)   A vehicle in a funeral procession has the right-of-way at an
intersection and may proceed through the intersection if the procession is led
by an escort vehicle displaying flashing yellow, red, or blue lights, except:
      (1)   When the right-of-way is required by an emergency vehicle as
defined by KRS 189.910;
      (2)   When vehicles in the procession are directed otherwise by a police
or safety officer; or
      (3)   When the vehicle is a train or locomotive.
   (B)   Before assuming the right-of-way, a person who drives a vehicle in a
funeral procession shall exercise due caution with regard to crossing traffic.
   (C)   A person who drives a vehicle that is not part of a funeral procession
shall not drive the vehicle between the vehicles of the funeral procession or
otherwise interfere with the progress of the procession, except when:
      (1)   The person is authorized to do so by a police or safety officer; or
      (2)   The vehicle is an emergency vehicle as defined by KRS 189.910.
   (D)   A person who drives a vehicle that is not part of a funeral procession
shall not illuminate the vehicle headlights or engage in any other act for the
purpose of securing the right-of-way granted to funeral processions.
   (E)   The escort vehicle, hearse, or other vehicles in a procession may be
equipped with flashing amber lights for the purpose of notifying the general
public of the procession and gaining the right-of-way at intersections, or
signaling the end of a procession.
   (F)   Persons authorized to use flashing lights as defined in KRS 189.920
may use them while accompanying a funeral procession to warn traffic that a
procession is approaching or that it is in progress.
   (G)   When a funeral procession is in progress, a person driving a vehicle
not in the procession shall not pass or overtake any vehicle in the procession
unless:
      (1)   The person is directed to do so by a police or safety officer;
      (2)   The procession is on a street, road, or highway outside the
corporate limits of a city, town, or urban-county; or
      (3)   The procession is on an interstate highway or a state parkway.
(KRS 189.378) Penalty, see §
71.99(C)
PARADES
§ 71.40 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   "CRUISING." The repeated operation of two or more vehicles in a continuous
or nearly continuous flow through a parking lot.
   "PARADE." Any parade, march, ceremony, show, exhibition, pageant, or
procession of any kind, or any similar display in or on any street, sidewalk,
park or other public place in the city, or "CRUISING" as defined herein.
   "PARADE PERMIT." A permit required by this subchapter.
   "PARKING LOT." Any paved or unpaved area used by a place of business or
shopping center for the parking of vehicles of their customers, but shall not
include those operated for hire as defined in KRS 189.700.
§ 71.41 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   No person or persons shall engage in, participate in, aid, form, or
start any parade unless a parade permit has been obtained from the Mayor or
other authorized city official.
   (B)   This subchapter shall not apply to:
      (1)   Funeral processions;
      (2)   Students going to and from school classes or participating in
educational activities, providing the conduct is under the immediate direction
and supervision of the proper school authorities;
      (3)   A governmental agency acting within the scope of its functions.
Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.42 APPLICATION FOR PERMIT.
   A person seeking issuance of a parade permit shall file an application with
the Mayor or other authorized city official on forms provided by such officer.
   (A)   Filing period. The application for a parade permit shall be filed not
less than five days or not more than 60 days before the date on which it is
proposed to conduct the parade.
   (B)   The application for a parade permit shall set forth the following
information:
      (1)   The name, address, and telephone number of the person seeking to
conduct the parade;
      (2)   If the parade is proposed to be conducted for, on behalf of, or by
an organization, the name, address, and telephone number of the headquarters of
the organization and of the authorized and responsible heads of the
organization;
      (3)   The name, address, and telephone number of the person who will be
the parade chairman and who will be responsible for its conduct;
      (4)   The date when the parade is to be conducted;
      (5)   The route to be traveled, the starting point, and the termination
point;
      (6)   The approximate number of persons, animals, and vehicles which will
constitute the parade, the type of animals, if any, and the description of the
vehicles;
      (7)   The hours when the parade will start and teminate;
      (8)   A statement as to whether the parade will occupy all or only a
portion of the width of the streets, sidewalk, park, or other public place
proposed to be traversed;
      (9)   The location by street of any assembly area for the parade;
      (10)   The time at which units of the parade will begin to assemble at
any such assembly area or areas;
      (11)   The interval of space to be maintained between units of the
parade;
      (12)   If the parade is designed to be held by, and on behalf of or for,
any person other than the applicant, the applicant for the permit shall file a
communication in writing from the person authorizing the applicant to apply for
the permit on his behalf;
      (13)   Any additional information reasonably necessary to a fair
determination as to whether a permit should issue.
   (C)   There shall be paid at the time of filing an application for a parade
permit a fee in an amount as established by the City Council.
Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.43 STANDARDS FOR ISSUANCE OF PERMIT.
   The Mayor or other authorized city official shall issue a permit when, from
a consideration of the application and from other information obtained, he
finds that:
   (A)   The conduct of the parade will not substantially interrupt the safe
and orderly movement of other traffic contiguous to its route;
   (B)   The conduct of the parade will not require the diversion of so great a
number of police officers to properly police the line of movement and the areas
contiguous thereto as to prevent normal police protection to the city;
   (C)   The conduct of the parade will not require the diversion of so great a
number of ambulances as to prevent normal ambulance service to portions of the
city other than that to be occupied by the proposed line of march and areas
contiguous thereto;
   (D)   The concentration of persons, animals, and vehicles at assembly points
of the parade will not unduly interfere with proper fire and police protection
of, or ambulance service to, areas contiguous to the assembly areas;
   (E)   The conduct of the parade will not interfere with the movement of fire
fighting equipment enroute to a fire;
   (F)   The parade is scheduled to move from its point of origin to its point
of termination expeditiously and without unreasonable delays enroute;
   (G)   The parade is not to be held for the sole purpose of advertising any
product, goods, or event, and is not designated to be held purely for private
profit;
   (H)   The parade, if it takes the form of cruising, has the approval in
writing of the owner or an authorized agent of the owner for the use of the
parking lot which is the site of the parade.
Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.44 NOTICE OF REJECTION OF PERMIT.
   The Mayor or other authorized city official shall act on the application for
a parade permit within three days, Saturdays, Sundays, and holidays excepted,
after filing thereof. If he disapproves the application, he shall mail to the
applicant within the three days, Saturdays, Sundays, and holidays excepted,
after the date on which the application was filed, a notice of his action
stating the reasons for his denial of the permit.
§ 71.45 APPEAL PROCEDURE WHEN PERMIT DENIED.
   Any person aggrieved shall have the right to appeal the denial of a parade
permit to the City Council. The appeal shall be taken within 30 days after
notice of denial. The City Council shall act on the appeal within 30 days after
its receipt.
§ 71.46 ALTERNATIVE PERMIT.
   The Mayor or other authorized city official, in denying an application for a
parade permit, shall be empowered to authorize the conduct of the parade on a
date, at a time, or over a route different than that named by the applicant. An
applicant desiring to accept an alternate permit shall file a written notice of
his acceptance. An alternate parade permit shall conform to the requirements
of, and shall have the effect of, a parade permit under this subchapter.
§ 71.47 NOTICE TO CITY AND OTHER OFFICIALS WHEN PERMIT ISSUED.
   Immediately on the issuance of a parade permit, a copy thereof shall be sent
to the following persons:
   (A)   The Mayor;
   (B)   The City Attorney
   (C)   The Fire Chief;
   (D)    The general manager or responsible head of each public utility, the
regular routes of chose vehicles will be affected by the route of the proposed
parade.
§ 71.48 CONTENTS OF PERMIT.
   Each parade permit shall state the following information:
   (A)   Starting time;
   (B)   Minimum speed;
   (C)   Maximum speed;
   (D)   Maximum interval of space to be maintained between the units of the
parade;
   (E)   The portions of the street, sidewalk, park, or other public place to
be traversed that may be occupied by the parade;
   (F)   The maximum length of the parade in miles or fractions thereof;
   (G)   Such other information as is reasonably necessary to the enforcement
of this subchapter.
Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.49 DUTIES OF PERMITTEE.
   A permittee hereunder shall comply with all permit directions and conditions
and with all applicable laws and ordinances. The parade chairman or other
person heading or leading the activity shall carry the parade permit on his
person during the conduct of the parade.
Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.50 PUBLIC CONDUCT DURING PARADES.
   (A)   Interference. No person shall unreasonably hamper, obstruct, impede,
or interfere with any parade or parade assembly or with any person, vehicle, or
animal participating or used in a parade.
   (B)   Driving through parades. No driver of a vehicle except a police car or
other emergency vehicle shall drive between the vehicles or persons comprising
a parade when such vehicles or persons are in motion and are conspicuously
designated as a parade.
Penalty, see §
71.99
Cross-reference:
   Parking on parade routes, see §
72.07
§ 71.51 REVOCATION OF PERMIT.
   The city shall have the authority to revoke a parade permit issued hereunder
on application of the standards for issuance as herein set forth.
§ 71.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Whoever violates any provision of this section for which no other
penalty is specifically provided shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and fined not
less than $20 nor more than $500.
   (B)   Any person who violates §
71.26 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and fined not less than $60 nor more
than $500, or be imprisoned in the county jail for not more than 30 days, or
both. (KRS 189.993(8))
   (C)   Any person who violates §
71.35 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be fined not more than $250 or
imprisoned for not more than ninety (90) days, or both. (KRS 189.378)
CHAPTER 72: PARKING REGULATIONS
Section
Parking Generally
   
72.01   Obstructional parking; double parking
   
72.02   Manner of parking
   
72.03   Limitation of stopping and parking
   
72.04   Restrictions and prohibitions on designated streets
   
72.05   Parking restricted to allow street cleaning
   
72.06   Parking in excess of certain number of hours prohibited; towing
authorized
   
72.07   Parking on parade route
   
72.08   Parking on off-street facility
   
72.09   Owner responsibility
   
72.10   Parking in parks
   
72.11   Display of parked vehicle for sale
   
72.12   Parking with permits for persons with disabilities
   
72.13   Prohibiting on-street parking
Impounding
   
72.20   Impoundment of vehicles authorized; redemption
   
72.21   Required notice to owner
   
72.22   Sale of vehicle
Snow Emergency
   
72.35   Announcement of snow emergency
   
72.36   Termination of emergency
   
72.37   Snow emergency routes
 
   
72.99   Penalty
Statutory reference:
   Revenues from fees, fines, and forfeitures related to parking, see KRS
65.120
PARKING GENERALLY
§ 72.01 OBSTRUCTIONAL PARKING; DOUBLE PARKING.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to leave any vehicle or any other
thing that may be a nuisance, obstruction, or hindrance in or on any street,
alley, or sidewalk within the city either during the day or night.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to stop or park any vehicle on the
roadway side of any other vehicle stopped or parked at the edge or curb of a
street.
Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.02 MANNER OF PARKING.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to stop or park
the vehicle in a manner other than with its right-hand side toward and parallel
with the curb, except that where parking is permitted on the left side of a
one-way street, the left-hand side shall be so parked, and except for
commercial loading and unloading on one-way streets.
   (B)   No vehicle shall be parked on left standing on any street unless its
two right wheels are within six inches of and parallel with the curb, except
that on one-way streets where parking is permitted on the left side the two
left wheels are to be within six inches of and parallel with the curb.
   (C)   No vehicle shall be backed to the curb on any street, except that
wagons and trucks may do so when loading and unloading provided that such
loading and unloading and delivery of property and material shall not consume
more than 30 minutes. Such backing of trucks or wagons is prohibited at all
times and on all streets in the city where any truck or wagon so backed
interferes with the use.of the roadway of moving vehicles or occupies road
space within ten feet of the center line of the street.
   (D)   The city may establish diagonal parking at certain places, requiring
the parking of vehicles at a certain angle to the curb and within a certain
portion of the roadway adjacent thereto. However, diagonal parking shall not be
established where the roadway space required therefor would be within ten feet
of the center line of any street. Such diagonal parking places shall be
designated by suitable signs, and shall indicate by markings on the pavement
the required angle and the width of the roadway space within which such vehicle
shall park.
   (E)   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to so park such
vehicle that any part thereof shall extend beyond the lines marking the side or
the rear of the space assigned for one vehicle.
Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.03 LIMITATIONS OF STOPPING AND PARKING.
   It shall be unlawful for th eoperator of any vehicle to stop or park such
vehicle except in a case of real emergency or in compliance with the provisions
of this traffic code or when directed by a police officer or traffic sign or
signal at any time in the following places:
   (A)   On the mainly-traveled portion of any roadway or on any other place in
the roadway where vehicles stand in any manner- other than as specified in §
72.02.
   (B)   On a sidewalk.
   (C)   In front of sidewalk ramps provided for persons with disabilities.
   (D)   In front of a public or private driveway.
   (E)   Within an intersection or crosswalk.
   (F)   At any place where official signs prohibit stopping or parking. This
does not apply to police officers when operating properly identified vehicles
during the performance of their official duties.
   (G)   Within 30 feet of any flashing beacon, traffic sign, or traffic-
control device.
   (H)   On any controlled access highway.
   (I)   Within a highway tunnel.
   (J)   Within fifteen (15) feet of a fire hydrant.
   (K)   IN an area between the roadways of a divided highway.
   (L) No person shall move a vehicle not lawfully under his control into any
such prohibited area.
(KRS 189.450(5) - (7)) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.04 RESTRICTIONS AND PROHIBITIONS ON DESIGNATED STREETS.
   (A)   The provisions of this section prohibiting the stopping and parking of
a vehicle shall apply at all times or at those times herein specified or as
indicated on official signs except when it is necessary to stop a vehicle to
avoid conflict with other traffic or in compliance with the directions of a
police officer or official traffic-control devices.
   (B)   The provisions of this section imposing a time limit on parking shall
not relieve any person from his duty to observe other and more restrictive
provisions prohibiting or limiting the stopping or parking of vehicles in
specific places or at specified times.
   (C)   When signs are erected in compliance with the provisions of division
(F) below giving notice thereof, no person shall park a vehicle at any time on
any street so marked by official signs.
   (D)   When a curb has been painted in compliance with the provisions of
division (F) below, no person shall park a vehicle at any time at or adjacent
to any curb so marked.
   (E)   When signs are erected in compliance with the provisions of division
(F) below, in each block giving notice thereof, no person shall park a vehicle
between the hours specified by official signs on any day except Sundays on any
street so marked.
   (F)   (1) The city shall determine on what streets or portions thereof
stopping or parking shall be restricted or prohibited. Whenever under authority
of or by this traffic code or any other ordinance any parking limit is imposed
or parking is prohibited on designated streets, or parking areas are restricted
to parking for persons with disabilities, appropriate signs shall be erected
giving notice thereof. However, in lieu of erecting such signs or in
conjunction therewith, the face and top of a curb or curbs at or adjacent to
which parking is prohibited at all times may be painted a solid yellow color.
      (2)   No such regulations or restrictions shall be effective unless the
signs have been erected and are in place or the curbs are painted yellow at the
time of any alleged offense, except in the case of those parking restrictions
which by their very nature would not require such signs and markings.
   (G)   When signs are erected in compliance with division (F) above in each
block giving notice thereof, no person shall park a vehicle for a time longer
than specified on official signs any day except Sunday and on any street so
marked.
Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.05 PARKING RESTRICTED TO ALLOW STREET CLEANING.
   The city is authorized to designate street cleaning areas and shall provide
suitable signs and markings on the street to be cleaned, restricting parking on
that particular day. It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to
stop on any street so designated.
Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.06 PARKING IN EXCESS OF CERTAIN NUMBER OF HOURS PROHIBITED; TOWING
AUTHORIZED.
   It shall be unlawful for anyone to park in any one place any vehicle on any
of the public ways or streets of the city for a period of 24 hours or longer.
Any vehicle left parked in any one place on any of the public ways or streets
of the city for a period of 24 hours or longer shall be deemed abandoned, and
shall be subject to all existing regulations of the city pertaining to
abandoned motor vehicles.
Penalty, see §
72.99
Cross-reference:
   Removal of abandoned vehicles, see §
72.21 et seq.
§ 72.07 PARKING ON PARADE ROUTE.
   (A)   The Mayor or other authorized city official shall have the authority,
whenever in his judgment it is necessary, to prohibit or restrict the parking
of vehicles along a street or part thereof constituting a part of the route of
a parade or procession, to erect temporary traffic signs to that effect, and to
prohibit and prevent such parking.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to park or leave unattended any vehicle in
violation of such signs or directions.
Penalty, see §
72.99
Cross-reference:
   Parades, see §§
71.40 through
71.51
§ 72.08 PARKING ON OFF-STREET FACILITY.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the driver of a motor vehicle to park or
abandon the vehicle or drive on or otherwise trespass on another's property, or
on an area developed as an off-street parking facility, without the consent of
the owner, lessee, or person in charge of such property or facility.
   (B)   If at any time a vehicle is parked, abandoned, or otherwise trespass
in violation of division (A) of this section, the owner, lessee, or person in
charge of the property or facility may have the unauthorized motor vehicle
removed in accordance with the provisions of §§
72.20 through
72.22.
   (C)   Every property owner or operator of an off-street parking facility
shall post signs stating thereon that the property or parking lot or facility
is privately owned and that unauthorized vehicle will be removed at the owner's
expense before exercising the authority granted in division (B).
Penalty, see §
72.99
Statutory reference:
   Removal of vehicles by owners of private parking lots; signs, see KRS
189.725
§ 72.09 OWNER RESPONSIBILITY.
   If any vehicle is found illegally parked in violation of any provisions of
this subchapter regulating stopping, standing, or parking of vehicles, and the
identity of the driver cannot be determined, the owner or person in whose name
the vehicle is registered shall be held prima facie responsible for the
violation.
Penalty, See §
72.99
§ 72.10 PARKING IN PARKS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to park any motor vehicle in or on any
section of any public park, playground, play lot, or tot lot within the city
not designed as a parking area or designed and regularly maintained as a
roadway. However, nothing contained in this section shall be construed as
prohibiting the parking of a motor vehicle parallel to a designated and
regularly maintained roadway in any such park or playground where at least two
wheels of the motor vehicle are resting on such roadway.
Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.11 DISPLAY OF PARKED VEHICLE FOR SALE.
   It shall be unlawful to park a motor vehicle displayed for sale or a motor
vehicle on which demonstrations are being made on any street.
Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.12 PARKING WITH PERMITS FOR PERSONS WITH DISABILITIES.
   (A)   Any other provision to the contrary notwithstanding, a motor vehicle
bearing a decal in its front windshield issued by the County Clerk pursuant to
appropriate county ordinances for persons with disabilities, when operated by a
person with a disability or when transporting a person with a disability, may
be parked in a designated parking place for a person with a disability, or when
parked in a metered parking space may be parked for two hours for no fee, or
when parked where any parking limit is imposed may be parked for two hours in
excess of the parking limit. The motor vehicle may be parked in a loading zone
for that period of time necessary to permit entrance or exit of the person with
a disability to or from the parked vehicle, but in no circumstances longer than
30 minutes.
   (B)   This section shall not permit parking in a "no stopping" or "no
parking" zone nor where parking is prohibited for the purpose of creating a
fire lane or to accommodate heavy traffic during morning, afternoon, or evening
hours, nor permit a motor vehicle to be parked in such a manner as to
constitute a traffic hazard.
Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.13 PROHIBITING ON-STREET PARKING.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this chapter the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
   "SUBSTANTIALLY." To remove or relocate to private property the said vehicle
or trailer from any street or public right-of-way within the City of Corydon.
   "TRAILER." Any vehicle designed to be drawn by a motor vehicle.
   "VEHICLE." A machine propelled by power or other than human power, designed
to travel along the ground, or by water, by use of wheels, treads, runners or
slides, and transport persons or property or pull machinery, and shall include
without limitation automobile, truck trailer, motorcycle, tractor, buggy,
wagon, 4-wheeler, 3-wheeler, boat, whether or not equipped with a motor, and
all vehicles passing over or on the said public streets.
   (B)   No person shall stop, stand or park any object, trailer or vehicle,
including but not limited to boats, campers, tractor trailers or trailers on
any City street for more than any one 72-hour period. The owner or operator of
the said vehicle or trailers, shall be required to substantially relocate the
trailer or vehicle in order not be in violation of this section.
(Ord. 2003-03, passed 7-17-03) Penalty, see §
72.99
IMPOUNDING
§ 72.20 IMPOUNDMENT OF VEHICLES AUTHORIZED; REDEMPTION.
   (A)   All police officers are empowered to authorize the impoundment of a
vehicle violating vehicle-related ordinances after a citation has been issued.
   (B)   A vehicle slated for impoundment will be tagged and placed under
control of the Police Department. Should a vehicle be moved without the consent
and approval of the Police Department a warrant shall be issued immediately for
the violator's arrest.
   (C)   All fines, fees, and charges must be paid in full before a release of
impoundment can be issued for the vehicle's release.
§ 72.21 REQUIRED NOTICE TO OWNER.
   (A)   When a motor vehicle has been voluntarily towed or transported
pursuant to order of police, other public authority, or private person or
business for any reason or when the vehicle has been stolen or misappropriated
and its removal from the public ways has been ordered by police, other public
authority, or by private person or business, or in any other situation where a
motor vehicle has been involuntarily towed or transported by order of police,
other authority, or by private person or business, the police, other authority,
or private person or business shall attempt to ascertain from the State
Transportation Cabinet the identity of the registered owner of the motor
vehicle or lessor of a motor carrier as defined in KRS Chapter 281 and within
ten business days of the removal shall, by certified mail, attempt to notify
the registered owner at the address of record of the make, model, license
number, and vehicle identification number of the vehicle, of the location of
the vehicle, and of the requirements for securing the release of the motor
vehicle.
   (B)   If a vehicle described in division (A) is placed in a garage or other
storage facility, the owner of the facility shall attempt to provide the notice
provided in division (A)   by certified mail to the registered owner at the
address of record of the motor vehicle or lessor of a motor carrier as defined
in KRS Chapter 281 within ten business days of recovery of, or taking
possession of the motor vehicle. This notice shall contain the information as
to the make, model, license number, and vehicle identification number of the
vehicle, the location of the vehicle, and the amount of reasonable charges due
on the vehicle. When the owner of the facility fails to provide notice as
provided herein, the motor vehicle storage facility shall forfeit all storage
fees accrued after ten business days from the date of tow. This division
(B)   shall not apply to a tow lot or storage facility owned or operated by the
city.
(KRS 376.275(1), (2))
______________
Editor’s note:
   KRS 376.275(1) and (2) were repealed by SB 71, sec. 12, March 22, 2021.
Current state law provisions concerning notification of owners of towed
vehicles can be found in KRS 281.928.
§ 72.22 SALE OF VEHICLE.
   (A)   (1)   Any person engaged in the business of storing or towing motor
vehicles, who has complied with the notification requirements of KRS 281.928,
shall have a lien on the motor vehicle and its contents, except as set forth in
division (B) below, for the applicable and reasonable charges assessed in
accordance with KRS 281.926 and KRS 281.932, as long as it remains in his or
her possession.
      (2)   If, after a period of 45 days, the applicable and reasonable
charges assessed in KRS 281.926 and KRS 281.932 have not been paid, the motor
vehicle and its contents, except as set forth in division (B) below, may be
sold to pay the charges after the owner and any lienholder have been notified
by certified mail at the addresses specified in KRS 281.928(1), ten days prior
to the time and place of the sale. If the proceeds of the sale of any vehicle
pursuant to this section are insufficient to satisfy accrued charges, the sale
and collection of proceeds shall not constitute a waiver or release of
responsibility for payment of unpaid charges by the owner or responsible
casualty insurer of the vehicle. A lien on a vehicle under this division (A)(2)
shall be subject to prior recorded liens, unless released by any existing
lienholder pursuant to division (B) below.
   (B)   A lienholder having a prior recorded lien listed on the title issued
by the Commonwealth of Kentucky shall be notified by certified mail within the
first ten days of impoundment in accordance with KRS 281.928. Such
notification, in addition to the requirements of KRS 281.928 shall include the
make, model, license number, vehicle identification number, owner’s name and
last known address, and tentative date of sale for the vehicle, and state that
the towing company or storage facility seeks to obtain a new title free and
clear of any liens, excluding tax liens. If the above-referenced certified
letter is not sent within the ten days by the towing and storage company, then
only ten days of storage may be charged. The lienholder has the right to take
possession of the motor vehicle after showing proof of lien still enforced, and
paying the reasonable or agreed towing and storage charges on the motor
vehicle. If a lienholder does not exercise the right to take possession of the
motor vehicle under this division (B) within 45 days of notification, and all
lienholders agree in writing, the towing company or storage facility may obtain
a new title under KRS 186A.145 free and clear of any liens, excluding tax
liens. Nothing in this section shall allow the transfer of a vehicle subject to
a lien, except as provided in KRS 186A.190.
   (C)   If there are no lienholders required to be notified under KRS 281.920
to 281.936, KRS 359.230, and this section, the owner does not exercise the
right to take possession of the motor vehicle under this section within 45 days
of notification required under KRS 281.928, the tow company or storage facility
may obtain a new title under KRS 186A.145 free and clear of any liens,
excluding tax liens.
(KRS 376.275)
SNOW EMERGENCY
§ 72.35 ANNOUNCEMENT OF SNOW EMERGENCY.
   Whenever the Mayor or other authorized city official finds that falling
snow, sleet, or freezing rain will create a condition which makes it necessary
that the parking of motor vehicles on snow emergency routes be prohibited, or
whenever he finds on the basis of a firm forecast of snow, sleet, or freezing
rain that the weather conditions so forecasted may create a condition making it
necessary that such parking be prohibited, he is authorized to announce such
prohibition, to become effective at a time specified by him. After the
effective time of such prohibition no person shall park any vehicle or permit
any vehicle to remain parked on a snow emergency route. However, if a fall of
snow, sleet, or freezing rain occurs after 11:00 p.m. and prior to 6:00 a.m.,
and the Mayor or other authorized city official has not announced prior to 11:
00 p.m. that parking on snow emergency routes is to be prohibited after a
specified time, a vehicle parked on a snow emergency route may remain so parked
until 7:00 a.m. following such fall. The prohibition of parking announced by
the Mayor or other authorized city official under the authority of this section
shall remain in effect until he announces the termination of the snow
emergency, in part or in whole, after which the prohibition of parking
authorized by this section shall no longer be in effect.
Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.36 TERMINATION OF EMERGENCY.
   Whenever the Mayor or other authorized city official shall find that some or
all of the conditions which gave rise to the snow emergency prohibition no
longer exist, he is authorized to declare the termination of the emergency, in
part or in whole, effective immediately on announcement. If such announcement
is made other than between 6:00 a.m. and 11:00 p.m., it shall be repeated
between those hours.
§ 72.37 SNOW EMERGENCY ROUTES.
   The term "SNOW EMERGENCY ROUTE" shall mean any route designated by the Mayor
or other authorized city official. On such street or highway designated as a
snow emergency route, special signs shall be posted to this effect.
§ 72.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person receiving a citation for any parking violation in the city
shall be fined in an amount not less than $20 nor more than $100. (KRS 189.990
(1))
   (B)   Whoever violates any provision of §
72.13 of this code of ordinances shall be fined not less than $5 nor more than
$100. Failure to remove or relocate the said vehicle or trailer shall subject
the vehicle or trailer to removal by the city at the expense and responsibility
of the owner of said property.
(Ord. 2003-03, passed 7-17-03)
CHAPTER 73: BICYCLES AND MOTORCYCLES
Section
   
73.01   Operation of bicycles
   
73.02   Operation of motorcycles and motorscooters
   
73.03   Skating and coasting
   
73.04   Clinging to vehicles
 
   
73.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Required obedience to traffic directions, see §
70.02(C)
§ 73.01 OPERATION OF BICYCLES.
   (A)   No person shall operate a bicycle on the sidewalks of the city.
   (B)   No person shall operate a bicycle on any section of a public park,
playground, play lot, or tot lot, except on a roadway or in a parking area.
   (C)   No operator of any bicycle shall carry another person on such bicycle.
Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.02 OPERATION OF MOTORCYCLES AND MOTORSCOOTERS.
   (A)   No operator of any motorcycle, motorscooter, or power-driven bicycle
shall carry another person except on a seat attached thereto or in a side car
attached to the vehicle.
   (B)   No operator of a motorcycle, motorscooter, or power-driven bicycle
shall operate such vehicle in any public park, except on a roadway or in a
parking area.
   (C)   No operator of a motorcycle, motorscooter, or power-driven bicycle
shall operate such vehicle in any play lot or tot lot.
Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.03 SKATING AND COASTING.
Except on streets which may be declared from time to time as "play streets" by
the city and protected by barriers or official signs, it shall be unlawful for
any person on skates or riding on a coaster sled or toy vehicle of any kind, to
go on any roadway except at a crosswalk.
Penalty, see § 73.99
§ 73.04 CLINGING TO VEHICLES.
   (A)   No person while riding on a bicycle, coaster sled, roller skates, or
any toy vehicle shall cling to any moving vehicle on any street, or fasten or
attach the vehicle on which he is riding thereto.
   (B)   No person shall ride on the projection, running board, or fenders of
any vehicle.
Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter shall be fined not more than
$50.
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
         Chapter
            
90.   ANIMALS
            
91.   STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
            
92.   [RESERVED]
            
93.   FIREWORKS; FIRE PREVENTION
            94.   LITTERING
            
95.   CEMETERIES
            
96.   FAIR HOUSING
CHAPTER 90: ANIMALS
Section
General Provisions
   
90.01   Definitions
   
90.02   Animals running at large
   
90.03   Cruelty to animals in the second degree
   
90.04   Dyeing or selling dyed chicks or rabbits
   
90.05   Abandoning domestic animals prohibited
   
90.06   Destruction of abandoned and suffering animal
Dogs
   
90.15   Definition
   
90.16   Dogs running at large
   
90.17   Noise disturbance
   
90.18   Impoundment
 
   
90.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 90.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   "ABANDON." Shall constitute the relinquishment of all rights and claims by
the owner to the animal.
(KRS 257.100 (4))
   "AT LARGE." Off the premises of the owner, and not under the control of the
owner or his agent either by leash, cord, chain, or otherwise.
   "OWNER." Every person having a right of property to an animal and every
person who keeps or harbors an animal, has it in his care, or permits it to
remain on or about the premises owned or occupied by him.
§ 90.02 ANIMALS RUNNING AT LARGE.
   (A)   No person who is the owner of any animal shall permit it to run at
large in any public road, highway, street, lane, or alley, or upon unenclosed
land, or permit it to go on any private yard, lot, or enclosure without the
consent of the owner of the yard, lot, or enclosure.
   (B)   The owner of an animal who permits it to run at large in violation of
this section is liable for all damages caused by such animal upon the premises
of another.
Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.03 CRUELTY TO ANIMALS IN THE SECOND DEGREE.
   (A)   A person is guilty of cruelty to animals in the second degree when
except as authorized by law he intentionally or wantonly:
      (1)   Subjects any animal to or causes cruel or injurious mistreatment
through abandonment, participates other than as provided in §
90.03 in causing it to fight for pleasure or profit, (including, but not
limited to being a spectator or vendor at an event where a four legged animal
is caused to fight for pleasure or profit) mutilation, beating, torturing,
tormenting, failing to provide adequate food, drink, space, or health care, or
by any other means; or
      (2)   Subjects any animal in his custody to cruel neglect; or
      (3)   Kills any animal other than a domestic animal killed by poisoning.
This paragraph shall not apply to intentional poisoning of a dog or cat.
Intentional poisoning of a dog or cat shall constitute a violation of this
section.
   (B)   Nothing in this section shall apply to the killing of animals:
      (1)   Pursuant to a license to hunt, fish, or trap;
      (2)   Incident to the processing as food or for other commercial
purposes;
      (3)   For humane purposes;
      (4)   For veterinary, agricultural, spaying or neutering, or cosmetic
purposes;
      (5) For purposes relating to sporting activities, including but not
limited to horse racing at organized races and training for organized races,
organized horse shows, or other animal shows;
      (6)   For bona fide animal research activities of institutions of higher
education; or a business entity registered with the United States Department of
Agriculture under the Animal Welfare Act or subject to other federal laws
governing animal research;
      (7)   In defense of self or another person against an aggressive or
diseased animal;
      (8)   In defense of a domestic animal against an aggressive or diseased
animal;
      (9)   For animal or pest control; or
      (10)   For any other purpose authorized by law.
   (C)   Activities of animals engaged in hunting, field trials, dog training
other than training a dog to fight for pleasure or profit, and other activities
authorized either by a hunting license or by the Department of Fish and
Wildlife shall not constitute a violation of this section.
(KRS 525.130) Penalty, see §
90.99
Statutory reference:
   Cruelty to animals in the first degree, a class D felony, see KRS 525.125
§ 90.04 DYEING OR SELLING DYED CHICKS OR RABBITS.
   No person shall sell, exchange, offer to sell or exchange, display or
possess living baby chicks, ducklings, or other fowl or rabbits which have been
dyed or colored; nor dye or color any baby chicks, ducklings or other fowl or
rabbits; nor sell, exchange, offer to sell or exchange or to give away baby
chicks, ducklings or other fowl or rabbits, under two months of age in any
quantity less than six, except that any rabbit weighing three pounds or more
may be sold at an age of six weeks.
(KRS 436.600) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.05 ABANDONING DOMESTIC ANIMALS PROHIBITED.
   No owner of a domestic animal shall abandon the animal.
Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.06 DESTRUCTION OF ABANDONED AND SUFFERING ANIMAL.
   (A)   Any peace officer, animal control officer, or any officer, or any
person authorized by the Board may destroy or kill or cause to be destroyed or
killed, any animal found abandoned and suffering and not properly cared for, or
appearing to be injured, diseased, or suffering past recovery for any useful
purpose.
   (B)   Before destroying the animal the officer shall obtain the judgment to
that effect of a veterinarian, or of two reputable citizens called by him to
view the animal in his presence, or shall obtain consent to the destruction
from the owner of the animal.
   (C)   (1)   Any animal placed in the custody of a licensed veterinarian for
treatment, boarding, or other care, which shall be unclaimed by its owner or
his agent for a period of more than ten days after written notice by registered
or certified mail, return receipt requested, is given the owner or his agent at
his last known address, shall be deemed to be abandoned and may be turned over
to the nearest humane society or animal shelter or disposed of as the custodian
may deem proper.
      (2)   The giving of notice to the owner, or the agent of the owner of the
animal by the licensed veterinarian shall relieve the licensed veterinarian and
any custodian to whom the animal may be given of any further liability for
disposal.
(KRS 257.100)
DOGS
§ 90.15 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   "DOG." Any member of the canine family, six months of age or over, male or
female.
§ 90.16 DOGS RUNNING AT LARGE.
   It shall be unlawful for the owner or keeper of any dog, regardless of the
age of the dog, to allow the dog to be at large and unattended or to run in any
street, park, lawn, garden, schoolyard, playground, or on any other public or
private property.
Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.17 NOISE DISTURBANCE.
   No person shall keep or harbor any dog within the city which, by frequent
and habitual barking, howling, or yelping, creates unreasonably loud and
disturbing noises of such a character, intensity, and duration as to disturb
the peace, quiet, and good order of one or more of the inhabitants of two or
more separate residences. Any person who shall allow any dog habitually to
remain, be lodged, or fed within any dwelling, yard, or enclosure which he
occupies or owns shall be considered as harboring the dog.
Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.18 IMPOUNDMENT.
   Every police officer, peace officer, or other authorized official shall have
the authority to apprehend any dog running at large in violation of this
chapter and to impound such dog or have such dog impounded in the appropriate
place.
§ 90.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter for which
another penalty is not already otherwise provided shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and fined not more than $500 for each offense. Each day the
violation exists shall constitute a separate offense.
   (B)   Any person who violates §
90.03 shall be guilty of a Class A misdemeanor and fined not more than $500,
imprisoned for not more than 12 months, or both for each offense. (KRS 525.130)
   (C)   Any person who violates §
90.04 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and fined not less than $100 nor more
than $500. (KRS 436.600)
CHAPTER 91: STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
Section
Excavations and Construction Opening permit required
   
91.01   Opening permit required
   
91.02   Application and cash deposit
   
91.03   Restoration of pavement
   
91.04   Barriers around excavations
   
91.05   Warning lights
   
91.06   Sidewalk construction
Road and Bridge Projects
   
91.15   Public hearing required
   
91.16   Notice requirements
   
91.17   Public may testify; effect of testimony
   
91.18   Hearing to be held prior to construction
   
91.19   Separate hearing for each project not required
   
91.20   Exemptions from hearing requirement
Obstructions
   
91.30   Unloading on street or sidewalk
   
91.31   Street and sidewalk obstruction
   
91.32   Materials on street or sidewalk
   
91.33   Removal of ice and snow
Culverts
   
91.45   Culvert requirements
 
   
91.99   Penalty
EXCAVATIONS AND CONSTRUCTION
§ 91.01 OPENING PERMIT REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, other than an authorized city official,
to make any opening in any street, alley, sidewalk, or public way of the city
unless a permit to make the opening has been obtained prior to commencement of
the work.
Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.02 APPLICATION AND CASH DEPOSIT.
   Each permit for making an opening shall be confined to a single project and
shall be issued by the authorized city official. Application shall be made on a
form prescribed by the City Council, giving the exact location of the proposed
opening, the kind of paving, the area and depth to be excavated, and such other
facts as may be provided for. The permit shall be issued only after a cash
deposit sufficient to cover the cost of restoration has been posted with the
authorized city official, conditioned upon prompt and satisfactory refilling of
excavations and restoration of all surfaces disturbed.
§ 91.03 RESTORATION OF PAVEMENT.
   (A)   The opening and restoration of a pavement or other surface shall be
performed under the direction and to the satisfaction of the authorized city
official, and in accordance with rules, regulations, and specifications
approved by the City Council.
   (B)   Upon failure or refusal of the permittee satisfactorily to fill the
excavation, restore the surface, and remove all excess materials within the
time specified in the permit or where not specified therein, within a
reasonable time after commencement of the work, the city may proceed without
notice to make such fill and restoration and the deposit referred to in §
91.02 shall be forfeited. Thereupon the deposit shall be paid into the
appropriate city fund, except such part demanded and paid to the permittee as
the difference between the deposit and the charges of the city for restoration
services performed by it. If the amount of such services performed by the city
should exceed the amount of the deposit, the Clerk or other proper
administrative officer shall proceed to collect the remainder due from the
permittee.
§ 91.04 BARRIERS AROUND EXCAVATIONS.
   Any person engaged in or employing others in excavating or opening any
street, sidewalk, alley, or other public way shall have the excavation or
opening fully barricaded at all times to prevent injury to persons or animals.
Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.05 WARNING LIGHTS .
   Any person engaged in or employing others in excavating or otherwise in any
manner obstructing a portion or all of any street, sidewalk, alley, or other
public way, at all times during the night season shall install and maintain at
least two illuminated red lamps which shall be securely and conspicuously
posted on, at, or near each end of the obstruction or excavation, and if the
space involved exceeds 50 feet in extent, at least one additional lamp for each
added 50 feet or portion thereof excavated or obstructed.
Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.06 SIDEWALK CONSTRUCTION.
   It shall be the duty of the authorized city official to supervise
construction or repair of sidewalks within the city. He shall cause
specifications to be prepared for the construction of the various kinds of
pavements and transmit the specifications to the City Council for approval.
When the specifications are approved, the City Council shall advertise for
proposals to do all the work which may be ordered by the city in construction
and repair of sidewalks, and shall authorize the Mayor to contract therefor,
for a period not exceeding one year, with the lowest responsible bidder, who
shall furnish good and sufficient sureties for the faithful performance of the
work. The Mayor, if authorized by City Council, may make separate contracts for
the different kinds of work with different parties.
ROAD AND BRIDGE PROJECTS
§ 91.15 PUBLIC HEARING REQUIRED.
   Before the city expands state derived tax revenues on a municipal highway,
road, street, or bridge it shall hold a hearing in accordance with the
provisions of this subchapter to take the sense of the public with regard to
the project and to priorities for use of tax moneys for road and bridge
purposes.
(KRS 174.100)
§ 91.16 NOTICE REQUIREMENTS.
   Prior to the contemplated date of expenditure of state derived tax revenues
on a road or bridge by the city, the city shall hold a public hearing to take
the sense of the public with regard to road and bridge matters within the city.
Notice of the hearing shall be given not less than seven days nor more than 21
days before the scheduled date of the public hearing and before beginning work
on any project covered by this subchapter.
(KRS 174.100 (1))
§ 91.17 PUBLIC MAY TESTIFY: EFFECT OF TESTIMONY.
   (A)   At the hearing any person may speak with regard to any proposed
project, any project which he feels should be built or done which has not been
proposed, priorities for completion of projects, and any other matter related
to road or bridge projects.
   (B)   The city shall not be bound by the testimony heard at the hearing but
shall give due consideration to it.
(KRS 174.100 (2), (3))
§ 91.18 HEARING TO BE HELD PRIOR TO CONSTRUCTION.
   The city shall not begin construction on a road or bridge project in which
state derived tax revenues are involved until the hearing as provided herein
has been held.
(KRS 174.100 (4))
§ 91.19 SEPARATE HEARING FOR EACH PROJECT NOT REQUIRED.
   This subchapter shall not be construed to require a separate hearing for
each project. A single hearing encompassing the entire road and bridge program,
if all projects subsequently undertaken have been identified at the hearing,
shall meet the requirements of this subchapter .
(KRS 174 .100 (5))
§ 91.20 EXEMPTIONS FROM HEARING REQUIREMENT.
   (A)   The provisions of this subchapter shall not apply to emergency repair
or replacement of roads or bridges necessitated by natural or man-caused
disasters nor to street cleaning or snow removal operations.
   (B)   The provisions of this subchapter shall not apply to projects which
were under construction as of July 15, 1980 unless construction was suspended
after that date and the city desires to reactivate the project.
(KRS 174.100 (6), (7))
OBSTRUCTIONS
§ 91.30 UNLOADING ON STREET OR SIDEWALK.
   No person shall unload any heavy material in the streets of the city by
throwing or letting the material fall upon the pavement of any street, alley,
sidewalk, or other public way, without first placing some sufficient protection
over the pavement.
Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.31 STREET AND SIDEWALK OBSTRUCTION.
   No person shall obstruct any street, alley, sidewalk, or other public way
within the city by erecting thereon any fence or building, or permitting any
fence or building to remain thereon. Each day that any fence or building is
permitted to remain upon the public way shall constitute a separate offense.
Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.32 MATERIALS ON STREET OR SIDEWALK.
   No person shall encumber any street or sidewalk. No owner, occupant, or
person having the care of any building or lot of land, bordering on any street
or sidewalk, shall permit it to be encumbered with barrels, boxes, cans,
articles, or substances of any kind, so as to interfere with the free and
unobstructed use thereof.
Penalty, see §
91.99
Cross-reference:
   Littering on streets or sidewalks, see Ch. 94
§ 91.33 REMOVAL OF ICE AND SNOW.
   It shall be the duty of the owner or of the occupant of each and every
parcel of real estate in the city abutting upon any sidewalk to keep the
sidewalk abutting his premises free and clear of snow and ice to the extent
feasible under the prevailing weather conditions, and to remove therefrom all
snow and ice, to the extent feasible under the prevailing weather conditions,
accumulated thereon within a reasonable time which will ordinarily not exceed
12 hours after the abatement of any storm during which the snow and ice may
have accumulated.
Penalty, see §
91.99
CULVERTS
§ 91.45 CULVERT REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   For streets and driveway drainage, any existing driveways having a
culvert in place shall be the responsibility of the city to maintain pursuant
to applicable City Code. Minimum length of said culvert shall be 20 feet long,
with diameter dimension being according to the depth of the ditch for proper
water flow. Furthermore, the city shall be responsible for maintenance of cross
drains.
   (B)   Any new or existing driveways requiring new culverts for proper
drainage shall be purchased by the property owner and installed by the city;
however, all maintenance and cleaning shall be the responsibility of said
property owner as hereinafter set forth. The city shall provide the name of
vendors offering culverts and culvert servicing that comply with specifications
required by the city.
   (C)   The cost to install new culverts shall be reimbursed to the city by
the property owner based upon the following formula: current contract labor
plus materials plus equipment costs.
   (D)   In the event that maintenance is required on a culvert due to damage
caused by city-related work, the city shall be responsible for its repair and/
or replacement at no charge to the property owner per a review and approval by
the City Council.
(Ord., passed 5-14-87; Am. Ord. 2006-06, passed 11-16-06)
§ 91.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter shall be, upon conviction,
guilty of a misdemeanor and fined not more than $500.
CHAPTER 92: RESERVED
CHAPTER 93: FIREWORKS; FIRE PREVENTION
Section
Fireworks
   
93.01   Definitions; legality of items
   
93.02   Sale or use prohibited; exception for public display
   
93.03   Bond or liability insurance requirement
   
93.04   Exempted sales and uses
   
93.05   Destruction of fireworks
Fire Prevention
   
93.20   Blasting permit
   
93.21   Storage of flammables and other matter
 
   
93.99   Penalty
FIREWORKS
§ 93.01 DEFINITIONS; LEGALITY OF ITEMS.
   (A)   As used in KRS 227.700 to 227.750, "FIREWORKS" means any composition
or device for the purpose of producing a visible or an audible effect by
combustion, deflagration, or detonation, and which meets the definition of
"consumer fireworks" as defined in division (B) or "display" fireworks as
defined in division (D) and as set forth in the U.S. Department of
Transportation's (DOT) hazardous materials regulations. "FIREWORKS" does not
include:
      (1)   Exception number 1: Toy pistols, toy canes, toy guns, or other
devices in which paper or plastic caps manufactured in accordance with DOT
regulations, and packed and shipped according to said regulations, are not
considered to be fireworks and shall be allowed to be used and sold at all
times.
      (2)   Exception number 2: Model rockets and model rocket motors designed,
sold, and used for the purpose of propelling recoverable aero models are not
considered to be fireworks.
      (3)   Exception number 3: Propelling or expelling charges consisting of a
mixture of sulfur, charcoal, and saltpeter are not considered as being designed
for producing audible effects.
(KRS 227.700)
   (B)   As used in KRS 227.700 through 227.750, "CONSUMER FIREWORKS" means
fireworks that are suitable for use by the public, designed primarily to
produce visible effects by combustion, and comply with the construction,
chemical composition, and labeling regulations of the U.S. Consumer Product
Safety Commission. The types, sizes, and amount of pyrotechnic contents of
these devices are limited as enumerated in this chapter. Some small devices
designed to produce audible effects are included, such as whistling devices,
ground devices containing 50 milligrams or less of explosive composition, and
aerial devices containing 130 milligrams or less of explosive composition.
"CONSUMER FIREWORKS" are further defined by the Consumer Product Safety
Commission in CPSC, 16 CFR Pts. 1500 and 1507, are classified as Division 1.4G
explosives by the U.S. Department of Transportation and include the following:
      (1)   Ground and hand-held sparkling devices.
         (a)   Dipped stick-sparkler or wire sparkler. These devices consist of
a metal wire or wood dowel that has been coated with pyrotechnic composition.
Upon ignition of the tip of the device, a shower of sparks is produced.
Sparklers may contain up to 100 grams of pyrotechnic composition per item.
Those devices containing any perchlorate or chlorate salts may not exceed five
grams of pyrotechnic composition per item. Wire sparklers which contain no
magnesium and which contain less than 100 grams of composition per item are not
included in this category, in accordance with DOT regulations.
         (b)   Cylindrical fountain. Cylindrical tube containing not more than
75 grams of pyrotechnic composition. Upon ignition, a shower of colored sparks,
and sometimes a whistling effect or smoke, is produced. This device may be
provided with a spike for insertion into the ground (spike fountain), a wood or
plastic base for placing on the ground (base fountain), or a wood or cardboard
handle, if intended to be hand-held (handle fountain). When more than one tube
is mounted on a common base, total pyrotechnic composition may not exceed 200
grams, or 500 grams if the tubes are separated from each other on the base by a
distance of at least ½ inch.
         (c)   Cone fountain. Cardboard or heavy paper cone containing up to 50
grams of pyrotechnic composition. The effect is the same as that of a
cylindrical fountain. When more than one cone is mounted on a common base, the
total pyrotechnic composition may not exceed 200 grams, or 500 grams if the
tubes are separated from each other on the base by a distance of at least ½
inch.
         (d)   Illuminating torch. Cylindrical tube containing up to 100 grams
of pyrotechnic composition. Upon ignition, colored fire is produced. May be
spike, base, or hand-held. When more than one tube is mounted on a common base,
the total pyrotechnic composition may not exceed 200 grams, or 500 grams if the
tubes are separated from each other on the base by a distance of at least ½
inch.
         (e)   Wheel. A device attached to a post or tree by means of a nail or
string. A wheel may have one or more drivers, each of which may contain not
more than 60 grams of pyrotechnic composition. No wheel may contain more than
200 grams total pyrotechnic composition. Upon ignition, the wheel revolves,
producing a shower of color and sparks and, sometimes, a whistling effect.
         (f)   Ground spinner. Small device containing not more than 20 grams
of pyrotechnic composition, similar in operation to a wheel but intended to be
placed on the ground and ignited. A shower of sparks and color is produced by
the rapidly spinning device.
         (g)   Flitter sparkler. Narrow paper tube attached to a stick or wire
and filled with not more than 100 grams of pyrotechnic composition that
produces color and sparks upon ignition. The paper at one end of the tube is
ignited to make the device function.
         (h)   Toy smoke device. Small plastic or paper item containing not
more than 100 grams of pyrotechnic composition that, upon ignition, produces
white or colored smoke as the primary effect.
      (2)   Aerial devices.
         (a)   Sky rockets and bottle rockets. Cylindrical tube containing not
more than 20 grams of pyrotechnic composition. Sky rockets contain a wooden
stick for guidance and stability and rise into the air upon ignition. A burst
of color or noise or both is produced at the height of flight.
         (b)   Missile-type rocket. A device similar to a sky rocket in size,
composition, and effect that uses fins rather than a stick for guidance and
stability.
         (c)   Helicopter, aerial spinner. A tube containing up to 20 grams of
pyrotechnic composition. A propeller or blade is attached, which, upon
ignition, lifts the rapidly spinning device into the air. A visible or audible
effect is produced at the height of flight.
         (d)   Roman candles. Heavy paper or cardboard tube containing up to 20
grams of pyrotechnic composition. Upon ignition, up to ten stars (pellets of
pressed pyrotechnic composition that burn with bright color) are individually
expelled at several second intervals.
         (e)   Mine, shell. Heavy cardboard or paper tube usually attached to a
wood or plastic base and containing up to 60 grams of total chemical
composition (lift charge, burst charge, and visible or audible effect
composition). Upon ignition, "stars," components producing reports containing
up to 130 milligrams of explosive composition per report, or other devices are
propelled into the air. The term "MINE" refers to a device with no internal
components containing a bursting charge, and the term "SHELL" refers to a
device that propels a component that subsequently bursts open in the air. A
mine or shell device may contain more than one tube provided the tubes fire in
sequence upon ignition of one external fuse. The term "CAKE" refers to a dense-
packed collection of mine or shell tubes. Total chemical composition including
lift charges of any multiple tube devices may not exceed 200 grams. The maximum
quantity of lift charge in any one tube of a mine or shell device shall not
exceed 20 grams, and the maximum quantity of break or bursting charge in any
component shall not exceed 25% of the total weight of chemical composition in
the component. The tube remains on the ground.
         (f)   Aerial shell kit, reloadable tube. A package kit containing a
cardboard, high-density polyethylene (HDPE), or equivalent launching tube with
multiple-shot aerial shells. Each aerial shell is limited to a maximum of 60
grams of total chemical composition (lift charge, burst charge, and visible or
audible effect composition), and the maximum diameter of each shell shall not
exceed 1 3/4 inches. In addition, the maximum quantity of lift charge in any
shell shall not exceed 20 grams, and the maximum quantity of break or bursting
charge in any shell shall not exceed 25% of the total weight of chemical
composition in the shell. The total chemical composition of all the shells in a
kit, including lift charge, shall not exceed 400 grams. The user lowers a shell
into the launching tube, at the time of firing, with the fuse extending out of
the top of the tube. After the firing, the tube is then reloaded with another
shell for the next firing. All launching tubes shall be capable of firing twice
the number of shells in the kit without failure of the tube. Each package of
multiple- shot aerial shells must comply with all warning label requirements of
the Consumer Product Safety Commission.
      (3)   Audible ground devices.
         (a)   Firecrackers, salutes. Small paper-wrapped or cardboard tube
containing not more than 50 milligrams of pyrotechnic composition. Those used
in aerial devices may contain not more than 130 milligrams of explosive
composition per report. Upon ignition, noise and a flash of light is produced.
         (b)   Chaser. Small paper or cardboard tube that travels along the
ground upon ignition. A whistling effect, or other noise, is often produced.
The explosive composition used to create the noise may not exceed 50
milligrams.
(KRS 227.702)
   (C)   Items listed below are classified as "NOVELTIES" and "TRICK
NOISEMAKERS" and are not classified as consumer fireworks by the U.S.
Department of Transportation, and their transportation, storage, retail sale,
possession, sale, and use shall be allowed throughout the state at all times.
      (1)   Snake, glow worm. Pressed pellet of pyrotechnic composition that
produces a large, snake-like ash upon burning. The ash expands in length as the
pellet burns. These devices may not contain mercuric thiocyanate.
      (2)   Smoke device. Tube or sphere containing pyrotechnic composition
that, upon ignition, produces white or colored smoke as the primary effect.
      (3)   Wire sparkler. Wire coated with pyrotechnic composition that
produces a shower of sparks upon ignition. These items may not contain
magnesium and must not exceed 100 grams of composition per item. Devices
containing any chlorate or perchlorate salts may not exceed five grams of
composition per item.
      (4)   Trick noisemaker. Item that produces a small report intended to
surprise the user. These devices include:
         (a)   Party popper. Small plastic or paper item containing not more
than 16 milligrams of explosive composition that is friction sensitive. A
string protruding from the device is pulled to ignite it, expelling paper
streamers and producing a small report.
         (b)   Booby trap. Small tube with string protruding from both ends,
similar to a party popper in design. The ends of the string are pulled to
ignite the friction sensitive composition, producing a small report.
         (c)   Snapper. Small, paper-wrapped item containing a minute quantity
of explosive composition coated on small bits of sand. When dropped, the device
explodes producing a small report.
         (d)   Trick match. Kitchen or book match that has been coated with a
small quantity of explosive or pyrotechnic composition. Upon ignition of the
match a small report or a shower of sparks is produced.
         (e)   Cigarette load. Small wooden peg that has been coated with a
small quantity of explosive composition. Upon ignition of a cigarette
containing one of the pegs, a small report is produced.
         (f)   Auto burglar alarm. Tube which contains pyrotechnic composition
that produces a loud whistle or smoke, or both, when ignited. A small quantity
of explosive, not exceeding 50 milligrams may also be used to produce a small
report. A squib is used to ignite the device.
(KRS 227.704)
   (D)   As used in KRS 227.700 through 227.750, "DISPLAY FIREWORKS" means
pyrotechnic devices or large fireworks designed primarily to produce visible or
audible effects by combustion, deflagration or detonation. This term includes,
but is not limited to, firecrackers containing more than two grains (130
milligrams) of explosive composition, aerial shells containing more than 40
grams of pyrotechnic composition, and other display pieces which exceed the
limits for classification as consumer fireworks. Display fireworks are defined
by the Consumer Product Safety Commission in CPSC, 16 CFR Pts. 1500 and 1507,
and are classified as Class B explosives by the U.S. Department of
Transportation.
(KRS 227.706)
   (E)   Legality of items.
      (1)   Items described in division (B) above are legal for retail sale
provided all applicable federal and state requirements with respect thereto are
met.
      (2)   Items described in division (D) are not legal for retail sale but
are legal under permits granted pursuant to this chapter for the purposes
specified in this chapter for public displays and may be sold at wholesale as
provided in this chapter.
      (3)   Items described in division (C) are legal for retail sale provided
all applicable federal and state requirements with respect thereto are met.
(KRS 227.708)
   (F)   Age requirement. No person or business shall give, offer for sale, or
sell any consumer fireworks listed in KRS 227.702 to any person under 18 years
of age.
(KRS 227.715)
§ 93.02 SALE OR USE PROHIBITED; EXCEPTION FOR PUBLIC DISPLAY.
   No person, firm, co-partnership or corporation shall offer for sale, expose
for sale, sell at retail, keep with intent to sell, possess, use, or explode,
any display fireworks, except as follows:
   (A)   (1)   The Chief of the Fire Department or other authorized city
official may grant permits for supervised public displays of fireworks by the
city, fair associations, amusement parks, and other organizations or groups of
individuals.
      (2)   Every display shall be handled by a competent display operator to
be approved by the public official by whom the permit is granted, and shall be
of such character, and so located, discharged or fired as in the opinion of the
official, after proper inspection, to not be hazardous to property or endanger
any person.
      (3)   "COMPETENT DISPLAY OPERATOR" shall be defined as the person with
overall responsibility for the operation and safety of a fireworks display. The
competent display operator shall have a Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms,
and Explosives (ATF) license and have participated as an assistant in firing at
least five public displays. A "COMPETENT DISPLAY OPERATOR" is also an employee
possessor. A permit under division (A)(1) shall be issued only to a competent
display operator holding an ATF license.
      (4)   At least one competent display operator shall be on site during
display set-up and firing. This complement display operator shall maintain a
copy of the permit application, as signed by the local authority having
jurisdiction as identified in this section, on site and at all times the
display is in place, and shall be presented on demand of the State Fire Marshal
or local Fire Chief. All public displays that require issuance of a permit
shall be conducted in accordance with the provisions of National Fire
Protection Association (NFPA) 1123 Code for Fireworks Display (adopted
edition).
      (5)   Permits shall be filed with the office of the State Fire Marshal at
least fifteen (15) days in advance of the date of the display. After this
privilege shall have been granted, sales, possession, use and distribution of
fireworks for the display shall be lawful for that purpose only. No permit
granted under this division shall be transferable. For the purpose of this
section, "PUBLIC DISPLAY OF FIREWORKS" shall include the use of pyrotechnic
devices or pyrotechnic materials before a proximate audience, whether indoors
or outdoors.
      (6)   Any person remaining within the display area shall be identified as
licensed by the ATF, or an employee thereof, or be an assistant in training to
become a competent display operator. All persons remaining within the display
area shall be at least eighteen (18) years of age.
      (7)   The Commissioner of the Department of Housing, Buildings and
Construction with recommendation from the State Fire Marshal shall promulgate
administrative regulations in accordance with KRS Chapter 13A to administer the
provisions of this division. The regulations shall address the process by which
permits are issued and any other procedures that are reasonably necessary to
effectuate this division.
   (B)   The sale, at wholesale, of any display fireworks for permitted
displays by any resident manufacturer, wholesaler, dealer, or jobber, in
accordance with regulations of the U.S. Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and
Firearms, and Explosives if the sale is to a person holding a display permit as
outlined in division (A) of this section. The permit holder shall present the
permit along with other verifiable identification at the time of sale.
   (C)   The sale of display fireworks in accordance with a license issued by
the U.S. Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms, and Explosives.
   (D)   The sale, and use in emergency situations, of pyrotechnic signaling
devices and distress signals for marine, aviation, and highway use.
   (E)   The use of fuses and railway torpedoes by railroads.
   (F)   The sale and use of blank cartridges for use in a show or theater or
for signal or ceremonial purpose in athletics or sports.
   (G)   The use of any pyrotechnic device by military organizations.
   (H)   The use of fireworks for agricultural purposes under the direct
supervision of the U.S. Department of the Interior or any equivalent or local
agency.
   (I)   Nothing in this section shall prohibit a person, firm, co-partnership,
non-profit, or corporation from offering for sale, exposing for sale, selling
at retail, keeping with intent to sell, possessing or using consumer fireworks
as defined in KRS 227.702 and as permitted pursuant to KRS 227.715.
§ 93.03 BOND OR LIABILITY INSURANCE REQUIREMENT.
   No permit shall be issued under §
93.02 unless the applicant shall give bond or evidence of liability insurance
deemed adequate by the official to whom application for the permit is made, in
a sum not less than $1,000,000. However, the appropriate city official or the
State Fire Marshal may require a larger amount if in their judgment the
situation requires it, conditioned for the payment of all damages which may be
caused thereby either to a person or to property by reason of the permitted
display, and arising from any acts of the licensee, his agents, employees or
subcontractors.
(KRS 227.720) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.04 EXEMPTED SALES AND USES.
   Nothing in this chapter shall prevent the retail sale and use of explosives
or signaling flares used in the course of ordinary business or industry, or
gold star producing sparklers, which contain no magnesium or chlorate, toy
snakes which contain no mercury, smoke novelties and party novelties, which
contain less than twenty-five hundredths of a grain of explosive mixture, or
shells or cartridges, used as ammunition in firearms, or blank cartridges for a
show or theater, or for signal or ceremonial purposes in athletics or sports,
or for use by military organizations, or the sale of any kind of fireworks
provided the same are to be shipped by the seller directly out of the state.
(KRS 227.730)
§ 93.05 DESTRUCTION OF FIREWORKS.
   (A)   The State Fire Marshal, or any fire department having jurisdiction
which has been deputized to act on behalf of the State Fire Marshal, shall
cause to be removed at the expense of the owner all stocks of fireworks which
are stored and held in violation of this chapter. After a period of sixty (60)
days, the seized fireworks may be offered for sale by closed bid to a properly
certified fireworks wholesaler.
   (B)   After a period of sixty (60) days, the seized fireworks may be offered
for sale by closed bid to a properly certified manufacturer, distributor, or
wholesaler. All seized fireworks or explosives with a Class 1.3G or "display"
designation shall require the notification of the U.S. Bureau of Alcohol,
Tobacco, Firearms, and Explosives. The State Fire Marshal shall provide the
owner or possessor a receipt containing the complete inventory of any fireworks
seized within five business days of the seizure.
   (C)   Before any seized fireworks may be disposed of:
      (1)   If the owner of the seized fireworks is known to the State Fire
Marshal, the State Fire Marshal shall give notice by registered mail or
personal service to the owner of the State Fire Marshal's intention to dispose
of the fireworks. The notice shall inform the owner of the State Fire Marshal's
intent. The State Fire Marshal shall conduct an administrative hearing in
accordance with KRS Chapter 13B concerning the disposal of fireworks; or
      (2)   If the identity of the owner of any seized fireworks is not known
to the State Fire Marshal, the State Fire Marshal shall cause to be published,
in a newspaper of general circulation in the county in which the seizure was
made, notice of the seizure, and of the State Fire Marshal's intention to
dispose of the fireworks. The notice shall be published once each week for
three consecutive weeks. If no person claims ownership of the fireworks within
ten days of the date of the last publication, the State Fire Marshal may
proceed with disposal of the fireworks. If the owner does claim the fireworks
within ten days of the date of the last publication, a hearing as set out in
division (C)(1) shall be held.
   (D)   Nothing in KRS 227.700 to 227.750 shall restrict a local government
from enacting ordinances that affect the sale or use of fireworks within its
jurisdiction.
(KRS 227.750)
FIRE PREVENTION
§ 93.20 BLASTING PERMIT.
   No person shall cause a blast to occur within the city without making
application in writing beforehand, setting forth the exact nature of the
intended operation, and receiving a permit to blast from the authorized city
official. The authorized city official, before granting such permit may require
the applicant to provide a bond to indemnify the city and all other persons
against injury or damages which might result from the proposed blasting.
Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.21 STORAGE OF FLAMMABLES AND OTHER MATTER.
   (A)   All flammable or combustible materials shall be arranged and stored in
a manner which affords reasonable safety against the danger of fire.
   (B)   Waste paper, ashes, oil rags, waste rags, excelsior, or any material
of a similar hazardous nature shall not be accumulated in any cellar or any
other portion of any building of any kind. Proper fireproof receptacles shall
be provided for such hazardous materials.
   (C)   No matter shall be stored or arranged in a manner which impedes or
prevents access to or exit from any premises in case of fire.
Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating the provisions of §§
93.02 or
93.03, the regulations issued thereunder or any order issued thereunder, or who
knowingly induces another, directly or indirectly, to violate the provisions of
those sections, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and fined not more than
$1,000, or imprisoned for not more than 30 days, or both. (KRS 227.990 (4))
   (B)   Any person who violates any other provision of this chapter shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor and fined not more than $500.
CHAPTER 95: CEMETERIES
Section
   
95.01   Casket vaults required
 
   
95.99   Penalty
§ 95.01 CASKET VAULTS REQUIRED .
   No burial shall be or occur in a cemetery within the municipal limits of the
city unless the casket is encased in a vault of iron, steel, concrete, or other
material enabling it thereby to withstand all but the ordinary forces of nature
and deterioration by the elements.
(Ord. , passed 7-5-65) Penalty, see § 95.99
§ 95.99 PENALTY .
   Any person who shall violate any of the provisions of this chapter or any
other ordinance relating to the use of cemeteries within the city shall be
fined in any sum not less than $1 nor more than $100 for each offense.
(Ord., passed 7-5-65)
CHAPTER 96: FAIR HOUSING
Section
   
96.01   Policy
   
96.02   Definitions
   
96.03   Unlawful practices
   
96.04   Discrimination in the sale or rental of housing
   
96.05   Discrimination in the financing of housing
   
96.06   Discrimination in the provision of brokerage services
   
96.07   Exemption
   
96.08   Administration
   
96.09   Education and conciliation
   
96.10    Enforcement
   
96.11   Investigations; subpoenas; giving of evidence
   
96.12   Enforcement by private persons
   
96.13   Interference coercion, or intimidation
   
96.14   Prevention of intimidation in fair housing cases
§ 96.01 POLICY .
   It is the policy of the city to provide, within constitutional limitations,
for fair housing throughout the city.
(Ord. passed 12-5-91)
§ 96.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   "DWELLING ." Any building, structure, or portion thereof which is occupied
as, or designed or intended for occupancy as a residence by one or more
families, and any vacant land which is offered for sale or lease for the
construction or location thereon of any such building, structure, or portion
thereof.
   "DISCRIMINATORY HOUSING PRACTICE."   An act that is unlawful under §§
96.04,
96.05,
96.06.
   "FAMILY ."   Includes a single individual .
   "PERSON." Includes one or more individuals, corporations, partnerships,
associations, labor organizations, legal representatives, mutual companies,
joint-stock companies, trusts, unincorporated organizations, trustees, trustees
in bankruptcy, receivers, and fiduciaries.
   "TO RENT ." Includes to lease, to sublease, to let, and otherwise to grant
for a consideration the right to occupy premises owned by the occupant.
(Ord. passed 12-5-91)
§ 96.03 UNLAWFUL PRACTICE.
   Subject to the provisions of division (B) and §
96.07, the prohibitions against discrimination in the sale or rental of housing
set forth in §
96.03 shall apply to:
   (A)   All dwellings except as exempted by division (B).
   (B)   Nothing in § 96.04 shall apply to:
      (1)   Any single-family house sold or rented by an owner, provided such
private individual owner does not own more than three such single-family houses
at any one time; provided further that in the case of the sale of any such
single-family house by a private individual owner not residing in such house at
the time of such sale or who was not the most recent resident of such house
prior to such sale, the exemption granted by this subsection shall apply only
with respect to one such sale within any twenty-four month period; provided
further that such bona fide private individual owner does not own any interest
in, nor is there owned or reserved on his behalf, under any express or
voluntary agreement, title to or any right to all or a portion of the proceeds
from the sale or rental of, more than three such single-family houses at any
one time, provided further, the sale or rental of any such single­family house
shall be excepted from the application of this chapter only if such house is
sold or rented:
         (a)   Without the use in any manner of the sales or rental facilities
or the sales or rental services of any real estate broker, agent, or salesman,
or of such facilities or service of any person in the business of selling or
renting dwellings, or of any employee or agent of any such broker, agent,
salesman, or person; and
         (b)   Without the publication, posting, or mailing after notice of any
advertisement or written notice in violation of § 96.04(c) of this chapter, but
nothing in this provision shall prohibit the use of attorneys, escrow agents,
abstractors, title companies, and other such professional assistance necessary
to perfect or transfer the title; or
      (2)   Rooms or units in dwellings containing living quarters occupied or
intended to be occupied by no more than four families living independently of
each other, if the owner actually maintains and occupies one of such living
quarters as his residence.
   (C)   For the purpose of subdivision (B), a person shall be deemed to be in
the business of selling or renting dwellings if:
      (1)   He has, within the preceding 12 months, participated as principal
in three or more transactions involving the sale or rental of any dwelling or
any interest therein; or
      (2)   He has, within the preceding 12 months, participated as agent,
other than in the sale of his own personal residence in providing sales or
rental facilities or sales or rental services in two or more transactions
involving the sale or rental of any dwelling or any interest therein; or
      (3)   He is the owner of any dwelling designed or intended for occupancy
by, or occupied by, five or more families.
(Ord. passed 12-5-91)
§ 96.04 DISCRIMINATION IN THE SALE OR RENTAL OF HOUSING.
   As made applicable by §
96.03 and except as exempted by §
96.03 (B) and §
96.07, it shall be unlawful:
   (A)   To refuse to sell or rent after the making of a bonafide offer, or to
refuse to negotiate for the sale or rental of, or otherwise make unavailable or
deny, a dwelling to any person because of race, color, religion, disability, or
national origin .
   (B)   To discriminate against any person in the terms, conditions, or
privileges of sale or rental of a dwelling, or in the provision of services or
facilities in connection therewith, because of race, color, religion,
disability, or national origin.
   (C)   To make, print, or publish, or cause to be made, printed, or published
any notice, statement, or advertisement, with respect to the sale or rental of
a dwelling that indicates any preference, limitation, or discrimination based
on race, color, religion, disability, or national origin, or any intention to
make any such preference, limitation, or discrimination.
   (D)   For profit, to induce or attempt to induce any person to sell or rent
any dwelling by representations regarding the entry or prospective entry into
the neighborhood of a person or persons of a particular race, color, religion,
disability, or national origin.
(Ord. passed 12-5-91)
§ 96.05 DISCRIMINATION ON THE FINANCING OF HOUSING .
   It shall be unlawful for any bank, building and loan association, insurance
company or other corporation, association, firm, or enterprise whose business
consists in whole or in part in the making of commercial real estate loans, to
deny a loan or other financial assistance to a person applying therefore for
the purpose of purchasing, constructing, improving, repairing, or maintaining a
dwelling, or to discriminate against him in the fixing of the amount, interest
rate, duration, or other terms or conditions of such loan or other financial
assistance, because of the race, color, religion, disability, or national
origin of such person or of any person associated with him in connection with
such loan or other financial assistance, or the purposes of such loan or other
financial assistance or of the present or prospective owners, lessees, tenants,
or occupants of the dwelling or dwellings in relation to which such loan or
other financial assistance is to be made or given; provided that nothing
contained in this section shall impair the scope or effectiveness of the
exception contained in §
96.03(B).
(Ord. passed 12-5-91)
§ 96.06 DISCRIMINATION IN THE PROVISIONS OF BROKERAGE SERVICES.
   It shall be unlawful to deny any person access to or membership or
participation   in any multiple-li sting service, real estate brokers
organization or other service, organization or facility relating to the
business of selling or renting dwellings, or to discriminate against him in the
terms or conditions of such access, membership, or participation, on account of
race, color, religion, disability, or national origin.
(Ord. passed 12-5-91)
§ 96.07 EXEMPTION.
   Nothing in this chapter shall prohibit a religious organization,
association, or society, or any nonprofit institution or organization operated,
supervised or controlled by or in conjunction with a religious organization,
association, or society, from limiting the sale, rental, or occupancy of
dwellings which it owns or operates for other than a commercial purpose to
persons of the same religion, or from giving preference to such persons, unless
membership in such religion is restricted on account of race, color,
disability, or national origin . Nor shall anything in this chapter prohibit a
private club not in fact open to the public, which as an incident to its
primary purpose or purposes provides lodgings which it owns or operates for
other than a commercial purpose, from limiting the rental or occupancy of such
lodgings to its members or from giving preference to its members.
(Ord. passed 12-5-91)
§ 96.08 ADMINISTRATION.
   (A)   The authority and responsibility for administering this chapter shall
be the Mayor of Corydon.
   (B)   The Mayor may designate any of these functions, duties, and powers to
employees of the city or to boards of such employees, including functions,
duties, and powers with respect to investigating, conciliating, hearing,
determining, ordering, certifying, reporting, or otherwise acting as to any
work, business, or matter under this chapter. The Mayor shall by rule prescribe
such rights to appeal from the decisions of his hearing examiners or to other
officers in the city, to boards of officers or to himself, as shall be
appropriate and in accordance with law .
   (C)   All executive departments and agencies shall administer their programs
and activities relating to housing and urban development in a manner
affirmatively to further the purposes of this chapter and shall cooperate with
the Mayor to further such purposes.
(Ord. passed 12-5-91)
§ 96.09 EDUCATION AND CONCILIATION.
   Immediately after the enactment of this chapter, the Mayor shall commence
such educational and conciliatory activities as will further the purposes of
this chapter. He shall call conferences of persons in the housing industry and
other interested parties to acquaint them with the provisions of this chapter
and his suggested means of implementing it, and shall endeavor with their
advice to work out programs of voluntary compliance and of enforcement.
(Ord. passed 12-5-91)
§ 96.10 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Any person who claims to have been injured by a discriminatory housing
practice or who believes that he will be irrevocably injured by a
discriminatory housing practice that is about to occur (hereafter "person
aggrieved" ) may file a complaint with the Mayor. Complaints shall be in
writing and shall contain such information and be in such form as the Mayor
requires. Upon receipt of a complaint, the Mayor shall furnish a copy of the
same to the person or persons who allegedly committed or are about to commit
the alleged discriminatory housing practice. Within thirty days after receiving
the complaint, or within thirty days after the expiration of any period of
reference under division (C), the Mayor shall investigate the complaint and
give notice in writing to the person aggrieved whether he intends to resolve
it. If the Mayor decides to resolve the complaints, he shall proceed to try to
eliminate or correct the alleged discriminatory housing practice by informal
methods of conference, conciliation, and persuasion. Nothing said or done in
the course of such informal endeavors may be made public or used as evidence in
a subsequent proceeding under this chapter without the written consent of the
persons concerned. Any employee of the Mayor who shall make public any
information in violation of this provision shall be deemed guilty of a
misdemeanor and upon conviction thereof shall be fined not more than $1,000 or
imprisoned not more than one year.
   (B)   A complaint under division (A) shall be filed within 180 days after
the alleged discriminatory housing practice occurred. Complaints shall be in
writing and shall state the facts upon which the allegations of a
discriminatory housing practice are based. Complaints may be reasonably and
fairly amended at any time. A respondent may file an answer to the complaint
against him and with the leave of the Mayor, which shall be granted whenever it
would be reasonable and fair to do so, may amend his answer at any time. Both
complaints and answers shall be verified.
   (C)   If within 30 days after a complaint is filed with the Mayor, the Mayor
has been unable to obtain voluntary compliance with this chapter, the person
aggrieved may, within 30 days thereafter, file a complaint with the Secretary
of the Department of Housing and Urban Development. The Mayor will assist in
this filing.
   (D)   If the Mayor has been unable to obtain voluntary compliance within
thirty days of the complaint, the person aggrieved may, within thirty days
hereafter commence a civil action in any appropriate court, against the
respondent named in the complaint, to enforce the rights granted or protected
by this chapter, insofar as such rights relate to the subject of the complaint.
If the court finds that a discriminatory housing practice has occurred or is
about to occur, the court may enjoin the respondent from engaging in such
practice or order such affirmative action as may be appropriate.
   (E)   In any proceeding brought pursuant to this section, the burden of
proof shall be on the complainant.
   (F)   Whenever an action filed by an individual shall come to trial, the
Mayor shall immediately terminate all efforts to obtain voluntary compliance.
(Ord. passed 12-5-91)
§ 96.11 INVESTIGATIONS: SUBPOENAS: GIVING OF EVIDENCE.
   (A)   In conducting an investigation, the Mayor shall have access at all
reasonable times to premises, records, documents, individuals, and other
evidence or possible sources of evidence and may examine, record, and copy such
materials and take and record the testimony or statements of such persons as
are reasonably necessary for the furtherance of the investigation provided
however that the Mayor first complies with the provisions of the Fourth
Amendment relating to unreasonable searches and seizures. The Mayor may issue
subpoenas to compel his access to or the production of such materials, or the
appearance of such persons, and may issue interrogatories to a respondent, to
the same extent and subject to the same limitations as would apply if the
subpoenas or interrogatories were issued or served in aid of a civil action in
the United States District Court for the district in which the investigation is
taking place. The mayor may administer oaths.
   (B)   Upon written application to the Mayor, a respondent shall be entitled
to the issuance of a reasonable number of subpoenas by and in the name of the
mayor to the same extent and subject to the same limitations as subpoenas
issued by the Mayor himself. Subpoenas issued at the request of a respondent
shall show on their fact the name and address of such respondent and shall
state that they were issued at his request.
   (C)   Witnesses summoned by subpoena of the Mayor shall be entitled to the
same witness and mileage fees as are witnesses in proceedings in United States
district courts. Fees payable to a witness summoned by a subpoena issued at the
request of a respondent shall be paid by him.
   (D)   Within five days after service of a subpoena upon any person, such
person may petition the Mayor to revoke or modify the subpoena. The Mayor shall
grant the petition if he finds that the subpoena requires appearance or
attendance at an unreasonable time or place that it requires production of
evidence which does not relate to any matter under investigation, that it does
not describe with sufficient particularity the evidence to be produced, that
compliance would be unduly onerous, or for other good reasons.
   (E)   In case of contumacy or refusal to obey a subpoena, the Mayor or other
person at whose request it was issued may petition for its enforcement in the
municipal or state court for the district in which the person to whom the
subpoena was addressed resides, was served, or transacts business .
   (F)   Any person who willfully fails or neglects to attend and testify or to
answer any lawful inquiry or to produce records, documents, or other evidence,
if in his power to do so, in obedience to the subpoena or lawful order of the
Mayor, shall make or cause to be made any false entry or statement of fact in
any report, account, record, or other document submitted to the Mayor pursuant
to his subpoena or other order, or shall willfully neglect or fail to make or
cause to be made full, true, and correct entries in such reports, accounts,
records, or other documents, or shall willfully mutilate, alter, or by any
other means falsify any documentary evidence, shall be fined not more than
$1,000 or imprisoned not more than one year, or both.
   (G)   The City Attorney shall conduct all litigation in which the Mayor
participates as a party or as amicus pursuant to this chapter.
(Ord. passed 12-5-91)
§ 96.12 ENFORCEMENT BY PRIVATE PERSONS.
   (A)   The rights granted by §
96.03 through §
96.06 may be enforced by civil actions in state or local courts of general
jurisdiction. A civil action shall be commenced within one hundred and eighty
days after the alleged discriminatory housing practice occurred; provided,
however, the court shall continue such civil case brought pursuant to this
section or §
96.10(D) from time to time before bringing it to trial if the court believes
that the conciliation efforts of the Mayor are likely to result in satisfactory
settlement of the discriminatory housing practice complained of in the
complaint made to the Mayor and which practice forms the basis for the action
in court; and provided, however, any sale, encumbrance, or rental consummated
prior to the issuance of any court order issued under the authority of this
chapter and involving a bonafide purchase, encumbrancer, or tenant without
actual notice of the existence of the filing of a complaint or civil action
under the provisions of this chapter shall not be affected.
   (B)   The court may grant as relief, as it deems appropriate, any permanent
or temporary injunction, temporary restraining order, or other order, and may
award to the plaintiff actual damages and not more than $1,000 punitive
damages, together with court costs and reasonable attorney fees in the case of
a prevailing plaintiff; provided the said plaintiff in the opinion of the court
is not financially able to assume said attorney's fees.
(Ord. passed 12-5-91)
§ 96.13 INTERFERENCE, COERCION, OR INTIMIDATION.
   It shall be unlawful to coerce, intimidate, threaten, or interfere with any
person in the exercise or enjoyment of, or on account of his having exercised
or enjoyed, or on account of his having used or encouraged any other person in
the exercise or enjoyment of, any right granted or protected by §§
96.03 through
96.06. This section may be enforced by appropriate civil action.
(Ord. passed 12-5-91)
§ 96.14 PREVENTION OF INTIMIDATION IN FAIR HOUSING CASES.
   Whoever, whether or not acting under color of law, by force or threat of
force willfully injures, intimidates, or interferes with, or attempts to
injure, intimidate, or interfere with:
   (A)   Any person because of his race, color, religion, disability, or
national origin and because he is or has been selling, purchasing, renting,
financing, occupying, or contracting, or negotiating for the sale, purchase,
rental, financing, or occupation of any dwelling, or applying to participate in
any service, organization, or facility relating to the business of selling or
renting dwellings; or
   (B)   Any person because he is or has been, or in order to intimidate such
person or any other person or any class of persons from:
      (1)   Participating, without discrimination on account of race, color,
religion, disability, or national origin, in any of the activities, services,
organizations, or facilities described in division (A); or
      (2)   Affording another person or class of persons opportunity or
protection so to participate; or
   (C)   Any citizen because he is or has been, or in order to discourage such
citizen or any other citizen from lawfully aiding or encouraging other persons
to participate, without discrimination on account of race, color, religion,
disability, or national origin, in any of the activities, services,
organizations, or facilities described in division (A), or participating
lawfully in speech or peaceful assembly opposing any denial of the opportunity
to so participate shall be fined not more than $1,000 or imprisoned not more
than one year, or both; and if bodily injury results shall be fined not more
than $10,000, or imprisoned not more than ten years, or both; and if death
results shall be subject to imprisonment for any term of years or for life.
(Ord. passed 12-5-91)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
         Chapter
            
110.   OCCUPATIONAL LICENSING PROVISIONS
            
111.   PEDDLERS, ITINERANT MERCHANTS, AND SOLICITORS
            
112.   PAWNBROKERS
            
113.   INSURANCE COMPANIES
            
114.   YARD SALES
            
115.   CABLE TELEVISION
            
116.   FINANCIAL INSTITUTION FRANCHISE AND LOCAL DEPOSIT TAX
CHAPTER 110: OCCUPATIONAL LICENSING PROVISIONS
Section
   
110.01   Licenses required to engage in certain trades, businesses, or
professions
   
110.02   Businesses with more than one location
   
110.03   Application for license; standards for :issuance
   
110.04   Issuance of license
   
110.05   Date and duration of license
   
110.06   Penalty for delinquent payment
   
110.07   License not transferable
   
110.08   License certificate to be displayed
   
110.09   Revocation or suspension
   
110.10   Appeal and review
   
110.11   Disposition of funds
   
110.12   Exemptions
   
110.13   Schedule of fees
 
   
110.99   Penalty
§ 110.01 LICENSES REQUIRED TO ENGAGE IN CERTAIN TRADES, BUSINESSES, OR
PROFESSIONS.
   There shall be imposed, in addition to ad valorem taxes, upon each person,
business, partnership, corporation, profession, trade, or otherwise, before he
or it may engage in, solicit, or in any way enter into a business, trade, or
profession within the city limits for commercial purposes, an occupation tax in
an amount set out. hereinafter for each separate business as listed. For the
purpose of operating such business, trade, or profession, application must be
submitted to the City Clerk for a permit therefor, accompanied by the amount of
money listed in §
110.13 as applicable.
(Ord. 2005.02A, passed 5-19-05)
§ 110.02 BUSINESSES WITH MORE THAN ONE LOCATION.
   Any business with more than one location shall obtain an occupational
license for each place of business.
(Ord. 2005.02A, passed 5-19-05)
§ 110.03 APPLICATION FOR LICENSE; STANDARDS FOR ISSUANCE.
   (A)   All original applications for licenses, unless otherwise specifically
provided, shall be made to the City Clerk in writing upon forms to be furnished
by him and shall contain:
      (1)   The name of the applicant and of each officer, partner, or business
associate;
      (2)   His present occupation and place of business;
      (3)   His place of residence for five years next preceding the date of
application;
      (4)   The nature and location of the intended business or enterprise;
      (5)   The period of time for which the license is desired;
      (6)   A description of the merchandise to be sold, if for a vendor;
      (7)   Such other information concerning the applicant and his business as
may be reasonable and proper, having regard to the nature of the license
desired.
   (B)   Renewal of an annual license may be granted to a licensee in good
standing upon the original application, unless otherwise provided.
   (C)   With each original or renewal application, the applicant shall deposit
the fee required by §
110.13 for the license requested.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful knowingly to make any false statement or
representation in the license application.
   (E)   The application shall be approved unless such investigation discloses
tangible evidence that the conduct of the applicant's business would pose a
substantial threat to the public health, safety, morals, or general welfare. In
particular, tangible evidence that the applicant:
      (1)   Has been convicted of a crime of moral turpitude; or
      (2)   Has made willful misstatements in the application; or
      (3)   Has committed prior violations of ordinances pertaining to
itinerant merchants, peddlers, solicitors, and the like; or
      (4)   Has committed prior fraudulent acts; or
      (5)   Has a record of continual breaches of solicited contracts; or
      (6)   Has an unsatisfactory moral character
will constitute valid reasons for disapproval of an application.
(Ord. 2005.02A, passed 5-19-05) Penalty, see § 110.99
§ 110.04 ISSUANCE OF LICENSE.
   Upon receipt of such application for a license accompanied by the proper
fee, if approval by another officer or department is not required, the City
Clerk, by and with the written approval of the Mayor or other designated city
administrative official, shall forthwith deposit the fee in the General Fund of
the city and issue to the applicant a proper license certificate signed by the
City Clerk and Mayor or other designated city administrative official. If for
any reason the license is not issued, the license fee shall be returned to the
applicant.
(Ord. 2005.02A, passed 5-19-05)
§ 110.05 DATE AND DURATION OF LICENSE.
   (A)   Occupational licenses are to be issued at the city office for the
city's fiscal year, which shall be July 1 until the following June 30. Any
person, business, trade, or profession already established and in operation
prior to July must secure a license by that date. Any such person, partnership,
or otherwise that does not have this license posted in his or their place of
business on July 1 of any new fiscal year shall secure such license
immediately, and shall pay a penalty of 50% over the cost of the license prior
to July 1.
   (B)   Any business, trade, or profession established after July 1 of any
fiscal year shall secure and post the license not later than 30 days from the
date of beginning of the new business. Each such business shall be subjected to
the same penalty for late payment as those businesses established on July 1.
All occupational licenses shall be issued to expire with the close of business
on June 30 of each and any fiscal year.
   (C)   In no event shall a license be granted to any business or any person
for a longer time than one year. (KRS 92.310)
(Ord. 2005.02A, passed 5-19-05)
§ 110.06 PENALTY FOR DELINQUENT PAYMENT.
   The operator of any business, trade, profession, or otherwise, that
continues to operate after July 31 of any fiscal year without a license shall
be subject, upon conviction, to a fine as set forth in § 110.99, in addition to
the penalty provisions of § 110.05, for each day of such operation. Each day of
such operation shall constitute a separate offense. Any business, trade,
profession, or otherwise starting after July 31 of any fiscal year shall be
subject to like penalties for failure to secure a license when due.
(Ord. 2005.02A, passed 5-19-05)
§ 110.07 LICENSE NOT TRANSFERABLE.
   Any license or permit issued hereunder shall not be transferable to any
other party. Upon the sale, transfer, or cessation of any business, any permit
or license which may have been issued previously for that business shall be
immediately null and void; all cost of which is to be considered fully earned,
and the license or permit expired.
(Ord. 2005.02A, passed 5-19-05) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.08 LICENSE CERTIFICATE TO BE DISPLAYED.
Every licensee carrying on business at a fixed location shall keep the license
certificate posted in a prominent place upon the licensed premises. Other
licensees shall carry their license certificates upon their person at all times
and whenever requested by any officer or citizen, shall exhibit the license.
(Ord. 2005.02A, passed 5-19-05) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.09 REVOCATION OR SUSPENSION.
   (A)   Any license may be revoked by the City Council at any time for
conditions or considerations which, had they existed at the time of issuance,
would have been valid grounds for its denial; for any misrepresentation of a
material fact in the application discovered after issuance of the license; for
violation of any provision of this chapter or other law or ordinance relating
to the operation of the business or enterprise for which the license has been
issued; or upon conviction of a licensee for any federal, state, or municipal
law or ordinance involving moral turpitude.
   (B)   The revocation shall become effective upon notice served upon the
licensee or posted upon the premises affected.
   (C)   As a preliminary to revocation, the City Council may issue an order
suspending the license, which shall become effective immediately upon service
of written notice to the licensee. This notice shall. specify the reason for
suspension, and may provide conditions under which reinstatement of the license
may be obtained. Upon compliance with these conditions within the time
specified, the license may be restored.
   (D)   The retention of the occupation permit by the applicant therefor shall
be subject to the operation of the business for which the permit was issued in
compliance with all laws of the state and ordinances of the city. The City
Council may at any time after due notice, in public session revoke any
occupation permit on presentation of evidence that the holder is operating or
has operated his business in an illegal manner. In like manner, any applicant
for a license who has been charged with doing business in an illegal manner
shall not be issued a license except by order of the City Council following a
public hearing.
(Ord. 2005.02A, passed 5-19-05)
§ 110.10 APPEAL AND REVIEW.
   In case any applicant has been denied a license, or if his license has been
revoked or suspended, the applicant or'licensee as the case may be, shall
within three business days have the right to appeal to the City Council from
the denial, revocation, or suspension. Notice of appeal shall be filed in
writing with the City Clerk who shall fix the time and place for a hearing
which shall be held not later than one week thereafter. The City Clerk shall
notify the Mayor and all members of the City Council of the time and place of
the hearing not less than 24 hours in advance thereof. A majority of the City
Council members shall constitute a quorum to hear the appeal. The appellant may
appear and be heard in person or by counsel. If, after hearing, a majority of
the members of the City Council present at the meeting declare in favor of the
applicant, the license shall be issued or fully reinstated as the case may be;
otherwise the order appealed from shall become final.
(Ord. 2005.02A, passed 5-19-05)
§ 110.11 DISPOSITION OF FUNDS.
   All monies collected by reason of this occupational tax chapter shall become
a part of the General Fund of the city, and shall be expended only for
legitimate city services.
(Ord. 2005.02A, passed 5-19-05)
§ 110.12 EXEMPTIONS.
   The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to any business, occupation,
or profession which is exempt from municipal licensing and/or license taxes
pursuant to state or federal law.
(Ord. 2005.02A, passed 5-19-05)
§ 110.13 SCHEDULE OF FEES.
   The following amounts are the fees to be paid by each applicant when
applying for an occupational license as required by §§
110.01 and
110.03. The fees indicated are annual amounts unless otherwise noted.
Business                                    Fee
All businesses, trades and professions of any kind                  $25
Contractors                                     35
Machine license for all coin-operated machines and amusement devices located in
places of business and operated for profit
      (1)   Any lawful coin- or token-operated machine or
         device which contains no element of chance and
         which as a result of depositing a coin, token,
         or other object automatically by or through
         some mechanical operation affords music or
         amusement of some character with or without
         vending any merchandise, but in addition to any
         such merchandise shall be subject this division.
         Such coin-operated amusement machines shall not
         include any bona fide merchandise vending machine
         in which there is incorporated no amusement
         features. (KRS 137.010)
      (2)   Pursuant to KRS 137.410 there is hereby
         established a license fee upon each coin-operated
         amusement machine, and also upon any electrically-
         operated machine operated as a game or for pleasure
         and entertainment by the general public, per year          10
Unloading license for unloading                            15
merchandise within the city when regularly utilizing city streets
(Ord. 125(S), passed 10-5-81; Am. Ord. 2005.02A, passed 5-19-05)
§ 110.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter for which a specific
penalty is not otherwise provided shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and fined
not more than $500.
   (B)   Whoever violates the provisions of §
110.06 shall be fined not less than $10 nor more than $100 for each offense.
(Ord. 2005.02A, passed 5-19-05)
CHAPTER 111: PEDDLERS, ITINERANT MERCHANTS, AND SOLICITORS
Section
   
111.01   Definitions
   
111.02   License requirement
   
111.03   Application procedure
   
111.04   Standards for issuance
   
111.05   Revocation procedure
   
111.06   Standards for revocation
   
111.07   Appeal procedure
   
111.08   Exhibition of identification
 
   
111.99   Penalty
§ 111.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   "BUSINESS." The business carried on by any person who is an itinerant
merchant, peddler, or solicitor as defined in this section.
   "GOODS."   Merchandise of any description whatsoever, and includes, but is
not restricted to, wares and' foodstuffs.
   "ITINERANT MERCHANT." Any person, whether as owner, agent, or consignee, who
engages in a temporary business of selling goods within the city and who, in
the furtherance of such business, uses any building, structure, vehicle, or any
place within the city.
   "PEDDLER."
      (1)   Any person who travels from place to place by any means carrying
goods for sale, or making sales, or making deliveries; or
      (2)   Any person who, without traveling from place to place, sells or
offers goods for sale from any public place within the city.
   A person who is a peddler is not an itinerant merchant.
   "SOLICITOR." Any person who travels by any means from place to place, taking
or attempting to take orders for sale of goods to be delivered in the future or
for services to be performed in the future. A person who is a solicitor is not
a peddler.
§ 111.02 LICENSE REQUIREMENT.
   (A)   Any person who is an itinerant merchant, peddler, or solicitor shall
obtain a license before engaging is such activity within the city.
   (B)   The fee for the license required by this chaptar shall be as set forth
in
Chapter 110 of this code or as otherwise established from time to time by the
City Council.
   (C)   No license issued under this chapter shall be transferable.
   (D)   All licenses issued under this chapter shall expire 90 days after the
date of issuance thereof.
Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.03   APPLICATION PROCEDURE.
   (A)   All applicants for licenses required by this chapter shall file an
application with the City Clerk. This application shall be signed by the
applicant if an individual, or by all partners if a partnership, or by the
president if a corporation. The applicant may be requested to provide
information concerning the following items:
      (1)   The name and address of the applicant;
      (2)   (a)   The name of the individual 'having management authority or
supervision of the applicant's business during the time that it is proposed to
be carried on in the city;
         (b)   The local address of such individual;
         (c)   The permanent address of such individual;
         (d)   The capacity in which such individual will act;
      (3)   The name and address of the person, if any, for whose purpose the
business will be carried on, and, if a corporation, the state of incorporation;
      (4)   The time period or periods during which it is proposed to carry on
applicant's business;
      (5)   (a)   The nature, character, and quality of the goods or services
to be offered for sale or delivered;
         (b)   If goods, their invoice value and whether they are to be sold by
sample as well as from stock;
         (c)   If goods, where and by whom such goods are manufactured or
grown, and where such goods are at the time of application;
      (6)   The nature of the advertising proposed to be done for the business;
      (7)   Whether or not the applicant, or the individual identified in
division (A)(2)(a) above, or the person identified in division (A)(3) has been
convicted of any crime or misdemeanor and, if so, the nature of each offense
and the penalty assessed for each offense.
   (B)   Applicants for peddler or solicitor licenses may be required to
provide further information concerning the following items, in addition to that
requested under division (A) above:
      (1)   A description of the applicant;
      (2)   A description of any vehicle proposed to be used in the business,
including its registration number, if any.
   (C)   All applicants for licenses required by this chapter shall attach to
their application the following:
      (1)   If required by the city, copies of all printed advertising proposed
to be used in connection with the applicant's business;
      (2)   If required by the city, credentials from the person, if any, for
which the applicant proposes to do business, authorizing the applicant to act
as such representative.
   (D)   Applicants who propose to handle foodstuffs shall also attach to their
application, in addition to any attachments required under division (C), a
statement from a licensed physician; dated not more than ten days prior to the
date of application, certifying the applicant to be free of contagious or
communicable disease.
Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.04 STANDARDS FOR ISSUANCE.
   (A)   Upon receipt of an application, an investigation of the applicant's
business reputation and moral character shall be made.
   (B)   The application shall be approved unless such investigation discloses
tangible evidence that the conduct of the applicant's business would pose a
substantial threat to the public health, safety, morals, or general welfare. In
particular, tangible evidence that the applicant:
      (1)   Has been convicted of a crime of moral turpitude; or
      (2)   Has made willful misstatements in the application; or
      (3)   Has committed prior violations of ordinances pertaining to
itinerant merchants, peddlers, solicitors, and the like; or
      (4)   Has committed prior fraudulent acts; or
      (5)   Has a record of continual breaches of solicited contracts; or
      (6)   Has an unsatisfactory moral character
will constitute valid reasons for disapproval of an application.
§ 111.05 REVOCATION PROCEDURE.
   Any license or permit granted under this chapter may be revoked by the City
Clerk after notice and hearing, pursuant to the standards in §
111.06. Notice of hearing for revocation shall be given in writing, setting
forth specifically the grounds of the complaint and the time and place of the
hearing. Such notice shall be mailed to the licensee at his last known address,
at least ten days prior to the date set for the hearing.
§ 111.06 STANDARDS FOR REVOCATION.
   A license granted under this chapter may be revoked for any of the following
reasons:
   (A)   Any fraud or misrepresentation contained in the license application;
or
   (B)   Any fraud, misrepresentation, or false statement made in connection
with the business being conducted under the license; or
   (C)   Any violation of this chapter; or
   (D)   Conviction of the licensee of any felony, or conviction of the
licensee of any misdemeanor involving moral turpitude; or
   (E)   Conducting the business licensed in an unlawful manner or in such a
way as to constitute a menace to the health, safety, morals, or general welfare
of the public.
§ 111.07 APPEAL PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Any person aggrieved by a decision under §§
111.04 or
111.06 shall have the right to appeal to the City Council. The appeal shall be
taken by filing with the City Council, within 14 days after notice of the
decision has been mailed to such person's last known address, a written
statement setting forth the grounds for appeal. The City Council shall set the
time and place for a hearing, and notice for such hearing shall be given to
such person in the same manner as provided in §
111.05.
   (B)   The order of the City Council after the hearing shall he final.
§ 111.08 EXHIBITION OF IDENTIFICATION.
   (A)   Any license issued to an itinerant merchant under this chapter shall
be posted conspicuously in or at the place named therein. In the event more
than one place within the city shall be used to conduct the business licensed,
separate licenses shall be issued for each place.
   (B)   The Clerk shall issue a license to each peddler or solicitor licensed
under this chapter. The license shall contain the words "Licensed Peddler" or
"Licensed Solicitor," the expiration date of the license, and the number of the
license. The license shall be kept with the licensee during such time as he is
engaged in the business licensed.
Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and fined not more than $500. Each day's violation shall constitute
a separate offense.
CHAPTER 112: PAWNBROKERS
Section
   
112.01   Definition
   112.02
   Bond
   
112.03
   Register to be kept; daily reports
   
112.04
   Receipt to be given for each article; sale of article
   
112.05
   Maximum interest, resale price
   
112.06
   Receipt to be given for payment of loan
   
112.07
   Prohibited activities
 
   
112.99
   Penalty
§ 112.01 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following definition shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   "PAWNBROKER." Any person who loans money on deposit of personal property;
deals in the purchase of personal property on condition of selling the property
back again at a stipulated price; makes a public display at his or her place of
business of the sign generally used by pawnbrokers to denote their business; or
who publicly exhibits a sign advertising money to loan on personal property or
deposit.
(KRS 226.010)
§ 112.02 BOND.
   Every person to whom a city license is granted to carry on the business of a
pawnbroker shall annually enter into bond to the city, with good and sufficient
surety to be approved by City Council, in the penal sum of $1000. This bond
shall be conditioned that he or she will observe the provisions of this chapter
and all ordinances and laws in force in the city not inconsistent with this
chapter.
(KRS 226.020)
§ 112.03 REGISTER TO BE KEPT; DAILY REPORTS.
   (A)   Every pawnbroker shall keep a register of all loans and purchases of
all articles by the pawnbroker from the general public. The register shall:
      (1)   Be reported to an online, internet-based transaction recording
service accessible to law enforcement agencies;
      (2)   Show the dates and the amounts of all loans or purchases by the
pawnbroker from the general public, and the names of all persons who have left
any property that has been pawned or sold, and:
         (a)   A driver’s license number;
         (b)   Another state or federally issued picture identification card
number; or
         (c)   If the identification specified in divisions (A)(2)(a) or (A)(2)
(b) is not available, a social security number may be accepted;
      (3)   At all times be available to the inspection of any law enforcement
officer of this state when in the discharge or his or her official duty; and
      (4)   Contain a full description of all property purchased by the
pawnbroker from the general public or received on deposit as collateral or
security. When requested by law enforcement and pertaining to an investigation,
a photograph of merchandise shall be made available to law enforcement if the
property is still in the possession of the pawnbroker. For the purposes of this
section, “full description” includes, but is not limited to:
         (a)   Make;
         (b)   Model;
         (c)   Color;
         (d)   Size;
         (e)   Manufacturer;
         (f)   Vintage; and
         (g)   Distinguishing marks or characteristics.
   (B)   When secondhand merchandise is sold to a pawnbroker, the merchandise
shall be held for a minimum of twelve (12) days before being resold.
   (C)   Prior to the release of property to a representative of law
enforcement, the law enforcement representative shall provide to the pawnbroker
a case report or other documentation that the item has been reported as stolen.
(KRS 226.040)
   (D)   As required by KRS 226.070(1), every pawnbroker shall, by 11:00 a.m.
each day, make available to the County Sheriff a true and correct written
report of all goods received by him or her, whether by pawn or purchase, during
the 24 hours preceding each report. The report shall describe the goods as
accurately as practicable. The County Sheriff shall furnish blanks for these
reports. (KRS 226.070)
Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.04 RECEIPT TO BE GIVEN FOR EACH ARTICLE; SALE OF ARTICLE.
   (A)   Every pawnbroker shall give a plain written or printed ticket for the
loan to the person negotiating or selling, and a plain written or printed
receipt of the articles that have been purchased or upon which money is loaned,
having on each a copy of the entries required by §
112.03(A) to be kept in his or her register. He or she shall not make any
charge for the ticket or receipt.
   (B)   A pawnbroker may sell any article pawned after the expiration of 60
days from the maturity of the loan. However, not less than ten days before
making the sale, the pawnbroker shall give notice to the person by whom the
article was pawned by mail addressed to the post office address of that person
as shown on the pawnbroker's register, notifying such person that, unless he or
she redeems the article within ten days from the date of mailing of the notice,
the article will be sold. (KRS 226.050)
Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.05 MAXIMUM INTEREST, RESALE PRICE.
   Any pawnbroker as defined in §
112.01, may, in loaning money on deposit of personal property, charge, contract
for, or receive interest at a rate not exceeding 2% per month on the unpaid
principal balance of the loan, and may charge, contract for, and receive a
reasonable fee, not to exceed one-fifth of the value of the loan per month, for
investigating the title, storing and insuring the property, closing the loan,
making daily reports to local law enforcement officers if required by §
112.03, and for other expenses, losses, and incidental costs associated with
servicing such loans. Further, this fee, when made and collected, shall not be
deemed as interest for any purpose of law. No pawnbroker shall directly or
indirectly charge, receive, or contract for any interest or consideration
greater than that allowed by this section. (KRS 226.080)
Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.06 RECEIPT TO BE GIVEN FOR PAYMENT OF LOAN.
   Every pawnbroker, upon receiving any payment of money from a borrower, shall
give to that person a plain and complete receipt for such payment, specifying
separately the amount applied to principal and the amount applied to interest.
In a case where the pawnbroker has purchased personal property under an
agreement to sell it back at a stipulated price, the pawnbroker shall, on
receiving any payment of money from the person from whom the property was
purchased, give that person a receipt stating the original purchase price, the
stipulated resale price, and the amount received. (KRS 226.090)
Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.07 PROHIBITED ACTIVITIES.
   No pawnbroker shall receive, by way of either pledge or pawn, any article
whatever from a minor at any time nor from any person between 8:00 p.m. and 7:
00 a.m.
(KRS 226.030) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.99 PENALTY.
   Any pawnbroker or pawnbroker's clerk who violates any of the provisions of
this chapter shall be, upon conviction, guilty of a misdemeanor and fined not
less than $50 nor more than $500, and his or her license may be forfeited to
the city.
(KRS 226.990(1))
CHAPTER 113: INSURANCE COMPANIES
Section
   
113.01
   Imposition of license fee
   
113.02
   Amount of fee for companies issuing life insurance
   
113.03
   Amount of fee for companies issuing policies other than life insurance
   
113.04
   Due date; interest
   
113.05   Written breakdown of collections
§ 113.01 IMPOSITION OF LICENSE FEE.
   There is hereby imposed on each insurance company a license fee for the
privilege of engaging in the business of insurance within the corporate limits
of the city for the calendar-year 2008 and thereafter on a calendar-year basis.
(Ord. 113.1, passed 8-13-88; Am. Ord. 94-2, passed 3-21-94; Am. Ord. 2007.01A,
passed 2-1-07)
§ 113.02 AMOUNT OF FEE FOR COMPANIES ISSUING LIFE INSURANCE.
   The license fee imposed upon each insurance company which issues life
insurance policies on the lives of persons residing within the corporate limits
of the city shall be 12% of the first year's premiums actually collected within
each calendar quarter by reason of the issuance of such policies.
(Ord. 113.1, passed 8-13-88; Am. Ord. 94-2, passed 3-21-94; Am. Ord. 2007.01A,
passed 2-1-07)
§ 113.03 AMOUNT OF FEE FOR COMPANIES ISSUING POLICIES OTHER THAN LIFE
INSURANCE.
   The license fee imposed upon each insurance company which issues any
insurance policy which is not a life insurance policy shall be 12% of the
premiums actually collected within each calendar quarter by reason of the
issuance of such policies on risks located within the corporate limits of the
city on those classes of business which such company is authorized to transact,
less all premiums returned to policyholders; however, any license fee or tax
imposed upon premium receipts shall not include premiums received for insuring
employers against liability for personal injuries to their employees, or death
caused thereby, under the provisions of the Workers' Compensation Act and shall
not include premiums received on policies of group health insurance provided
for state employees under KRS 18A.225(2).
(Ord. 113.1, passed 8-13-88; Am. Ord. 94-2, passed 3-12-94; Am. Ord. 2007.01A,
passed 2-1-07)
§ 113.04 DUE DATE; INTEREST.
   All license fees imposed by this chapter shall be due no later than thirty
(30) days after the end of each calendar quarter. License fees which are not
paid on or before the due date shall bear interest at the tax interest rate as
defined in KRS 131.010(6).
(Ord. 113.1, passed 8-13-88; Am. Ord. 94-2, passed 3-21-94)
§ 113.05 WRITTEN BREAKDOWN OF COLLECTIONS.
   Every insurance company subject to the license fees imposed by this chapter
shall annually, by March 31, furnish the city a written breakdown of all
collections in the preceding calendar year for the following categories of
insurance:
   (A)   Casualty;
   (B)   Automobile;
   (C)   Inland marine;
   (D)   Fire and allied perils;
   (E)   Health;
   (F)   Life; and
   (G)   Other.
(Ord. 113.1, passed 8-13-88; Am. Ord. 94-2, passed 3-21-94; Am. Ord. 2007.01A,
passed 2-1-07)
CHAPTER 114: YARD SALES
Section
   
114.01   Yard sale limitations
   
114.02   Removal of signs and items at end of sale
   
114.03   Permit required
 
   
114.99   Penalty
§ 114.01 YARD SALE LIMITATIONS.
   There may be one yard sale, one garage sale, one rummage sale, or one flea
market at any one site for a period not to exceed two days in any given month.
(Ord. 100.3, passed 10-10-87) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.02 REMOVAL OF SIGNS AND ITEMS AT END OF SALE.
   All signs and items displayed during yard sales, garage sales, rummage
sales, or flea markets shall be removed from public display at the close of the
yard sale, garage sale, rummage sale, or flea market on the second day.
(Ord. 100.3, passed 10-10-87) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.03 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   Prior to a yard sale, an application must be made either orally (by personal
appearance) or in writing and will result in a written approval or disapproval
authenticated by the City Clerk. Approval will be automatic so long as §
114.01 above is not violated.
(Ord. 100.3, passed 10-10-87) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.99 PENALTY.
   Persons violating any potion of this chapter will be subject to a fine of
$10 for each day they are in violation of this chapter.
(Ord. 100.3, passed 10-10-87)
CHAPTER 115: CABLE TELEVISION
Section
   
115.01   Definitions
   
115.02   Filing and review of rates
   
115.03   Rate orders
   
115.04   Franchise duties
   
115.05   Cable Chairman
   
115.06   Proprietary information
   
115.07   Petition for change in status
 
   
115.99   Penalties and Forfeitures
§ 115.01 DEFINITIONS.
   "BASIC SERVICE" or "BASIC CABLE SERVICE." The basic service tier shall, at a
minimum, include all signals of domestic television broadcast stations provided
to any subscriber (except a signal secondarily transmitted by satellite carrier
beyond the local service area of such stations, regardless of how such signal
is ultimately received by the cable system) any public, educational, and
governmental programming required by the franchise to be carried on the basic
tier, and any additional video programming signals a service added to the basic
tier by the cable operator.
(47 C.F.R. 1 § 76.901)
   "EQUIPMENT." Equipment is that equipment regulated under 47 C.F.R. 1 §
76.923 and which consists of all equipment in a subscriber's home that is used
to receive the basic service tier, regardless of whether such equipment is
additionally used to receive other tiers of regulated programming service and/
or unregulated service.
(Ord. 94-1, passed 2-3-94)
§ 115.02 FILING AND REVIEW OF RATES.
   (A)   Initial Filings By Franchisees.
      (1)   When made. A franchisee that is notified that its basic service and
equipment rates are subject to regulation must file a submission ("the rate
filing") within thirty (30) days of the notification (but no earlier than
November 15, 1993) justifying its then existing basic service and equipment
rates. All rates, for all customer classifications must be justified. Once a
franchisee has been so notified by the city that its rates are subject to
regulation, it may not thereafter increase its rates for basic service or
equipment without the prior approval of the city. This requirement applies in
all cases, including with respect to increases in rates announced prior to the
date the operator was notified its rates were subject to regulation where the
increases were not implemented prior to the date of notice. A franchisee must
submit a rate filing to justify any increase in basic service or equipment
rates or any new basic service or equipment rate (collectively referred to as
rate increases). An "increase" occurs when there is an increase in rates or a
decrease in program or customer services. Rate filings proposing and supporting
rate increases must be filed for review at least sixty (60) days in advance of
the proposed effective date of the increase. This requirement does not alter or
eliminate any other notice requirement.
      (2)   Where made. Every rate filing must be submitted to the City Clerk.
A rate filing shall be considered filed for review on the date the required
rate filing and all required copies are received by the City Clerk. Ten (10)
copies of each rate filing (including all supporting materials), must be
submitted. If the operator claims any part of the filing is proprietary, it
shall additionally file three (3) copies, which omit the proprietary
information.
      (3)   Contents. Subject to any Federal Communications Commission (FCC)
regulations governing the burden of proof, a rate filing submitted by a
franchisee must show that the rates the franchisee proposes to charge for basic
service and equipment are reasonable, except as inconsistent with FCC rules.
         (a)   Every rate filing must clearly state in a cover letter whether
it justifies existing rates or proposes an increase in rates. The cover letter
must also identify any rate that is derived in whole or in part based upon cost
of service and identify any pages of the rate filing that contain information
that the franchisee claims is proprietary. it must state whether any part of
the proposed increase is based on an inflation adjustment or an alleged
increase in external costs. The cover letter should also contain a brief,
narrative description of any proposed changes in rates or in service.
         (b)   The pages of each rate filing must be numbered sequentially.
         (c)   The rate filing must contain all applicable FCC forms and these
forms must be correctly completed.
         (d)   If different rates are proposed for basic service for different
classes of customers, the filing must show that the classifications and the
differences in the rate charged are reasonable and consistent with federal law.
      (4)   If the franchisee seeks to support a rate based upon a cost of
service, the city will establish a rate that provides the franchisee an
opportunity to recover the reasonable costs associated with providing basic
cable service, including a reasonable profit. An expense or investment is not
presumed reasonable merely because the franchisee has incurred or made it. A
franchisee is not entitled to recover monopoly profits in any form.
      (5)   Unless the city grants a waiver of this provision, a franchisee who
seeks to justify all or any part of its rates based upon its cost of service
must submit a complete cost of service analysis that shows all expenses it
incurs and all revenues derived from the system, directly or indirectly, by the
franchisee or any person that constitutes a cable operator of the system within
the meaning of 47 U.S.C. 522(4). The cost of service must identify the
accounting level (as that term is used in the FCC's regulations) at which each
expense or revenue identified was aggregated and show clearly how the expense
or revenue was allocated. The franchisee may not include costs at an accounting
unless it also includes all revenues from that same level attributable to the
system or to a group of systems of which the system serving the city is a part.
The replacement cost of a comparable system must be identified and supported.
The franchisee must identify the name and address of any entity with which it
has a contract, other than a programmer, which derives revenues from the
system, and must state whether and how the revenues of that entity were
included in the cost of service. In addition, the cost of service shall clearly
show the derivation of a proposed charge per channel and the application of
that charge to yield a basic service rate. It must also show and support the
derivation and allocation of any amounts included in the derivation of the rate
for:
         (a)   operation and maintenance expenses;
         (b)   administration and general expenses;
         (c)   programming expenses   (identifying retransmission consent costs
and copyright fees separately);
         (d)   costs for PEG access and any institutional network;
         (e)   franchise fee expenses;
         (f)   investment in the system and associated depreciation;
         (g)   other expenses, including federal, state and local taxes,
itemized; and
         (h)   the proposed return on equity and actual interest paid by the
franchisee.
      (6)   Notwithstanding the foregoing, a franchisee is not required to
submit the cost of service specified in subsection (A) (5) of this section for
equipment rates, and instead initially shall complete, submit, and support the
costs of equipment using applicable FCC forms. Any cost of service submitted to
justify basic service rates must show that the cost of service does not include
equipment costs.
      (7)   In addition, the franchisee is required to submit a current list of
active account numbers and addresses of all customers in the area regulated by
the city. This information will be subject to verification at the discretion of
the city.
   (B)   Initial city review.
      (1)   After receiving a rate filing, the City Clerk shall promptly
publish a notice that a filing has been received and that, except for those
parts which may be held proprietary, it is available for public review. The
notice shall state that interested parties may comment on the filing, and shall
provide interested parties seven (7) days to submit written comments on the
filing to the City Clerk. The City Clerk shall submit the comments received to
the cable committee chairman no later than ten (10) days after the filing. The
committee chairman shall submit the comments received and its recommendation
for action to the City Council no later than twenty (20) days after the filing
and shall make those recommendations available for public inspection. The
franchisee may submit a response to public comments or staff recommendations,
but must do so no later than three (3) business days after the staff
recommendations are submitted to the City Council. The response shall be filed
with the City Clerk, and if submitted in a timely fashion, the City Clerk shall
forward a copy to the cable chairman.
      (2)   Within thirty (30) days of the date of the filing, the City Council
shall issue a written order, which may be in any lawful form, approving the
proposed rate in whole or in part; denying the proposed rate in whole or in
part; or tolling the proposed rate in whole or in part. If the City Council
tolls the rate in whole or in part, its written order at a minimum shall
explain that it requires additional time to review the rate filing and state
that the franchisee may cure any deficiency in its filing by submitting a
supplementary filing as provided in subsection (A)(3) of this section. With
respect to existing rates, tolling means the rates may remain in effect,
subject to refund; with respect to rate changes, tolling means the portion of
the rate change that is tolled may not go into effect.
   (C)   Supplementary filings.
      (1)   If a proposed rate is tolled in whole or in part, the franchisee
shall submit a supplementary filing twenty (20) days from the effective date of
the tolling order, containing corrections, if any, to its filing (including any
required supplement to its cost of service filing) and any response to
information filed by interested parties or to the recommendations of the staff,
or any additional information necessary to support the proposed rate.
Supplementary filings must be filed in accordance with subsection (A)(2) of
this section.
      (2)   A supplementary filing also must contain such information as the
city directs the franchisee to provide.
      (3)   In addition to information the city requires the franchisee to
provide, and unless the city grants a waiver of this provision, a franchisee
who claims that it is entitled to a rate in whole or in part based upon the
adjustments for inflation and external costs contemplated by 47 C.F.R. 76.922
(d) (1)-(2) must submit the following:
         (a)   A calculation showing how each part of the adjustment was
derived;
         (b)   A statement itemizing each external cost (as defined by FCC
regulations), the amount of that external cost for the two calendar years prior
to the date of the filing and the year-to-date in which the filing is made; and
the projected amount of the external cost for the remainder of the year in
which the filing is made and for the following calendar year. The statement
must specifically show any increases in revenues from programming services.
"Revenues" include all revenues, in whatever form received.
         (c)   If the increase is attributed to any increase in programming
service costs, the contract for each programming service whose cost has
increased; a sworn statement identifying each programming service whose costs
increased where the programmer is an affiliate of the franchisee (as defined by
FCC regulations); and, for any contract that has been in effect less than
twelve (12) months, the prior contract for the service.
         (d)   A sworn statement by the franchisee's chief financial officer or
an independent, certified accountant stating that he has examined all external
costs (including all programming costs), and has off set against any increase
claimed, the amount of any decreases in external costs, and the amount by which
any increase in external costs was below the GNPPI, as required by 47 C.F.R.
76.922(d)(2); affirming that the franchisee has not attempted to recover any
increase in the cost of programming purchased by an affiliate except as
provided in 47 C.F.R. 76.922(d)(2)(vi).
      (4)   Upon receiving the supplementary filing, the City Clerk promptly
shall publish a notice that a filing has been received and that it is available
for public review (except those parts which may be withheld as proprietary).
The notice shall state that interested parties may comment on the filing, and
shall provide interested parties twenty (20) days to submit written comments on
the filing to the City Clerk. The City Clerk shall submit the comments received
to the cable chairman no later than twenty-four (24) days after the
supplemental filing was received. The cable chairman shall submit the comments
received and its recommendation for action to the City Council no later than
thirty (30) days prior to the date the City Council must act under subsection
(C)(7) of this section.
      (5)   The recommendations shall be made available for public inspection.
The franchisee may submit a response to public comments or staff
recommendations, but must do so no later than ten (10) days after the staff
recommendations are submitted to the City Council. The response shall be filed
with the City Clerk, and if submitted in a timely fashion, the City Clerk shall
forward a copy to the City Council.
      (6)   The City Council shall issue a written order, which may be in any
lawful form, approving the proposed rate in whole or in part; denying the
proposed rate in whole or in part; or allowing the rate to go into effect in
whole or in part, subject to refund. If the City Council issues an order
allowing the rates to go into effect subject to refund, it shall also direct
the franchisee to maintain an accounting in accordance with 47 C.F.R. 76.933.
      (7)   The order specified in subsection (C)(5) of this section adopted
within ninety (90) days after the tolling order for any rate the franchisee
justifies based on the FCC benchmark. The order shall be adopted within one
hundred fifty (150) days of the tolling order for any rate the franchisee
justified with a cost of service showing.
(Ord. 94-1, passed 2-3-94)
§ 115.03 RATE ORDERS.
   (A)   Any rate order of the City Council shall be issued and effective upon
adoption. Each rate order shall be released to the public and the franchisee.
Orders in which City Council approves, denies, or tolls a rate, orders that a
rate may go into effect subject to refund, or orders refunds of established
rates, shall require a public notice be published stating that the order has
been issued and is available for review. Any such order shall be in writing.
   (B)   The City Council may take any steps that it is not prohibited from
taking by federal law to protect the public interest as part of any rate order
or by any other means, including requiring refunds, setting rates, and imposing
forfeitures and penalties directly or through its delegated representative, and
enforcing refund orders.
   (C)   Any order prescribing a rate must explain why the franchisee's
proposed rate was unreasonable and why the prescribed rate is reasonable.
   (D)   Before prescribing a rate or ordering a refund to subscribers, the
City Council shall provide the franchisee notice and an opportunity to comment
on the proposed rate or refunds. If the recommendation of the Cable Chairman
proposes a refund or rate, mailing a copy of the recommendation to the
franchisee at the time it is submitted to the City Council shall be deemed to
provide the franchisee this notice and the franchisee must comment on the
refund or rate in its response to the recommendations.
   (E)   No order approving or setting a rate using the FCC benchmark shall be
interpreted to establish the just and reasonable rate to subscribers. Every
such rate approved or established shall be subject to further reduction and
refund to the extent permitted under applicable laws and regulations, as the
same may be amended from time to time.
(Ord. 94-1, passed 2-3-94)
§ 115.04 FRANCHISEE DUTIES.
   (A)   A franchisee must implement remedial requirements, including
prospective rate reductions and refunds, within sixty (60) days of the date the
City Council issues an order mandating a remedy.
   (B)   Within ninety (90) days of the date of an order mandating a remedy is
issued, a franchisee must file a certification, signed by an authorized
representative of the cable company stating:
      (1)   Whether the franchisee has complied fully with all provisions of
the City Council's order; and
      (2)   Describing in detail the precise measures taken to implement the
City Council's order; and
      (3)   Showing how refunds (including 4% interest) were calculated and
distributed.
   (C)   Each franchisee shall keep books and records of accounts so that it
can refund any amounts owed to subscriber.
   (D)   Each franchisee shall submit as complete a filing as possible.
Knowingly withholding information or making a filing that is incomplete under
applicable law shall be treated as evasion of this chapter.
   (E)   Information requests.
      (1)   A franchisee and any other entity that has records of revenues of
expenses that are allocated to the franchisee's system must respond to requests
for information from the city by deadlines established by the city. A
franchisee is responsible for ensuring that such other entity responds to the
city's requests.
      (2)   Because federal law limits the time available for an initial
response to a filing by a franchisee, before the order contemplated in section
115.02(B) issues, the franchisee must be prepared to respond to requests for
information regarding its filing within five (5) days of the date an
information request is mailed to it. The information may include the
information the franchisee would be required to provide as part of any
supplementary filing.
(Ord. 94-1, passed 2-3-94)
§ 115.05 CABLE CHAIRMAN.
   (A)   There is hereby established the position of Cable Chairman.
   (B)   The Cable Chairman shall be responsible for administering the
provisions herein, including:
      (1)   Cable Chairman shall ensure notices are given to the public and
each franchisee as required herein and by FCC regulations.
      (2)   Cable Chairman may submit requests for information to the
franchisee and establish deadlines for response to them, as provided in section
115.04.
      (3)   For good cause, the Cable Chairman may waive any provision herein
or extend any deadline for filing or response except as to such matters that
are mandatory under FCC regulations.
      (4)   Cable Chairman shall rule on any request for confidentiality.
      (5)   Cable Chairman shall prepare the recommendations to City Council
contemplated by sections
115.02(B)-(C). If the Cable Chairman recommends that any increase be denied in
whole or in part, he shall:
         (a)   Propose a rate and explain the basis for its recommendation (it
may propose a rate remain at existing levels);
         (b)   Recommend whether and on what basis refunds should issue; and
         (c)   Notify the franchisee of its recommendation at the time it is
submitted to the City Council.
(Ord. 94-1, passed 2-3-94)
§ 115.06 PROPRIETARY INFORMATION.
   (A)   If these provisions, or any request for information requires the
production of proprietary information, the franchisee must produce this
information. However, at the time the allegedly proprietary information is
submitted, a franchisee may request that specific, identified portions of its
response be treated as confidential and withheld from public disclosure. The
request must state the reason the information should be treated as proprietary
and the facts that support these reasons. The request for confidentiality will
be granted if the city determines that the preponderance of the evidence shows
that non-disclosure is consistent with the provisions of the Freedom of
Information Act, 5 U.S.C. 552. The city shall place in a public file for
inspection any decision that results in information being withheld. If the
franchisee requests confidentiality and its request is denied, (1) when the
franchisee is proposing a rate increase, it may withdraw the proposal, in which
case the allegedly proprietary information will be returned to it; or (2) the
franchisee may seek review within five (5) working days of the denial in any
appropriate forum. Release of the information will be stayed pending review.
   (B)   Any interested party may file a request to inspect material withheld
as proprietary with the City Clerk. The City Council shall weigh the policy
considerations favoring non-disclosure against the reasons cited for permitting
inspection in light of the facts of the particular case. It will then promptly
notify the requesting entity and the cable franchisee that submitted the
information as to the disposition of the request. It may grant, deny or
condition a request. The requesting party or the franchisee may seek review of
the decision by filing an appeal with any appropriate forum. Disclosure will be
stayed pending resolution of any appeal.
(Ord. 94-1, passed 2-3-94)
Cross-reference:
   Public records,
Ch. 34
§ 115.07 PETITION FOR CHANGE IN STATUS.
   Any franchisee may petition for a change in status in accordance with 47
C.F.R. 76.915, and the city shall consider that petition in accordance with 47
C.F.R. 76.915. The petition and ten (10) copies must be filed with the City
Clerk.
(Ord. 94-1, passed 2-3-94)
§ 115.99 PENALTIES AND FORFEITURES.
   Except as provided by federal law, a franchisee shall be subject to
penalties and forfeiture under this chapter and its request for approval may be
denied if:
   (A)   Knowingly submits false or fraudulent information to the city in
connection with the rate proceeding;
   (B)   Fails to comply with any lawful order or request of the city,
including, but not limited to, a request for information or an order setting
rates; or
   (C)   Evades or attempts to evade federal or local rate regulation; provided
that, filing for approval of a rate that is later determined to be unreasonable
is not in and of itself an evasion of federal or local regulation.
(Ord. 94-1, passed 2-3-94)
CHAPTER 116: FINANCIAL INSTITUTION FRANCHISE
AND LOCAL DEPOSIT TAX
Section
   
116.01   Imposition of tax
   
116.02   Tax Due
   
116.03   Lien
   
116.04   Use of tax
 
   
116.99   Penalty
§ 116.01 IMPOSITION OF TAX.
   There is hereby imposed on all "financial institutions", as defined in KRS
Chapter 136, located within the corporate limits of the city, for the 1996 tax
year and all subsequent years, a franchise or local bank deposit tax at the
rate of 0.025% on all deposits, as defined in KRS Chapter 136, maintained by
such financial institutions.
(Ord. - - , passed 9-19-96)
§ 116.02 TAX DUE.
   (A)   For transition purposes, the 1996 tax year will be treated differently
in terms of collection of taxes than for all subsequent years. For the 1996 tax
year, the following timetable is hereby established: The city will issue tax
bills to financial institutions no later than May 1, 1997. Payment of the tax
shall be due with a two percent (2%) discount by May 31, 1997, or without the
discount by June 30, 1997.
   (B)   For all tax years subsequent to the 1996 tax year, the following
timetable is hereby established: The city will issue tax bills to financial
institutions no later than December 1 of each year. Payment of the tax shall be
due with a two percent (2%) discount by December 31 of each year, or without
the discount by January 31 of each year.
(Ord. - - , passed 9-19-96)
§ 116.03 LIEN.
   The city shall have a lien for taxes on the property assessed for taxes to
the extent allowed under KRS 134.420.
(Ord. - - , passed 9-19-96)
§ 116.04 USE OF TAX.
   All monies collected pursuant to these sections shall be paid into the
General Fund of the city to be used for the payment of proper expenditures as
determined by the City Council.
(Ord. - - , passed 9-19-96)
§ 116.99 PENALTY.
   All taxes due in accordance with these sections which are not paid before
June 30, 1997, for the tax year 1996, or which are not paid before January 31,
for all subsequent tax years shall be deemed delinquent and shall be subject to
a penalty of ten percent (10%) and shall bear interest at the rate of six
percent (6%) per annum.
(Ord. - - , passed 9-19-96)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
         Chapter
            
130.   OFFENSES AGAINST CITY REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 130: OFFENSES AGAINST REGULATIONS
Section
   
130.01   Curfew for minors
   
130.02   Discharging firearms
   
130.03   Accessibility of adult materials
§ 130.01 CURFEW FOR MINORS.
   (A)   Curfew for minors.
      (1)   It is a curfew violation for a child 13, 14, 15, 16, or 17 years of
age to be in a public place:
         (a)   After 12:00 midnight and before 6:00 a.m. on Saturday or Sunday;
         (b)   After 11:00 p.m. on Sunday, Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, or
Thursday; or
         (c)   Before 6:00 a.m. on Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday, or
Friday.
      (2)   It is a curfew violation for a child under 13 years of age to be in
a public place after 10:00 p.m. or before 6:00 a.m. on any day.
   (B)   Exemptions. This section does not apply to a child who is:
      (1)   Accompanied by his parent, guardian, or custodian;
      (2)   Accompanied by an adult specified by his parent, guardian, or
custodian;
      (3)   Carrying out an errand or other lawful activity as directed by his
parent, guardian, or custodian; or
      (4)   Participating in, going to, or returning from:
         (a)   Lawful employment; or
         (b)   A lawful athletic, educational, entertainment, religious, or
social event.
   (C)   Authority of police during curfew hours.
      (1)   Any police officer may stop and question any minor suspected of
violating this section's provisions and may take the minor into custody when
found violating provisions of this section. The officer shall take the minor to
police headquarters where the name of the minor's parent, guardian, or person
having legal custody of him shall be ascertained.
      (2)   The parent, guardian, or person having legal custody shall be
notified of the child's detention as required by SRS 610.200 and summoned by
the investigating officer to appear at police headquarters to assist in the
completion of the investigation. If the parent, guardian, or person having
legal custody fails to appear within two hours from the time the child was
taken into custody, the investigating officer shall follow the requirements set
forth in KRS Chapter 610 and other applicable provisions of the State Unified
Juvenile Code, regarding detention or release of the child.
      (3)   Unless the nature of the offense or other circumstances are such as
to indicate the necessity of keeping the child in secure custody, the officer
shall release the child to the custody of his parent, guardian, person having
legal custody, or other responsible adult.
      (4)   If the investigating or apprehending officer is satisfied that a
violation of division (A) of this section has occurred, he shall cause formal
charges to be filed requiring the child and his parent, guardian, or person
having legal custody to appear in the appropriate court to answer the charge of
a violation of division' (A).
      (5)   If formal charges are to be brought, before a child is released to
the custody of a parent, guardian, person with legal custody, or other
responsible adult, the investigating officer shall obtain a written promise
signed by such person that the person will bring the child to the court at the
stated time or at such time as the court may order. The written promise, along
with the written report of the investigating officer, shall be submitted to the
court as required by KRS 610.200.
   (D)   Penalty. Any child violating any provision of division (A) of this
section shall be subject to the procedures and penalties provided for by the
State Unified Juvenile Code. Any parent, guardian, or person having legal
custody of a child who violates any provision of division (A) of this section
may be subject to the financial penalty provided for in KRS 610.180.
§ 130.02 DISCHARGING FIREARMS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, "FIREARM" means any weapon which will
expel a projectile by the action of an explosive.
   (B)   Except as hereinafter provided, it shall be unlawful for any person to
shoot or discharge a firearm within the city limits. This section shall not
apply to any peace officer who discharges a firearm in the performance of his
duties or to any person who discharges a firearm while lawfully defending
person or property.
   (C)   Any person who shall violate the provisions of this section shall be
fined not less than $10 nor more than $100 and a separate offense shall be
deemed committed on each day during or on which the violation occurs or
continues.
(Ord. passed 12-2-74; Am. Ord. 20`17.03, passed 9-14-17)
§ 130.03 ACCESSIBILITY OF ADULT MATERIAL.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, "adult material" means any book,
magazine, or other printed or written material or any picture, drawing,
photograph, motion picture, video or other recording, mechanical or electrical
reproduction which, taken as a whole, appeals to prurient interest in sexual
conduct, and which depicts or describes the sexual conduct in a patently
offensive way for the purpose of sexual stimulation or gratification.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person in the business of retail or
wholesale sales to cause any of the above named items to be located in any area
in and/or around the business which is generally accessible to minors. A person
may not be convicted under this section if said "adult material" is located
behind the checkout counter in an area generally reserved for employees only.
   (C)   Owners and/or employees found to be in violation of any portion of
this section shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and subject to a fine of no less
than $100 or no more than $500 for each day they are in violation of this
section.
(Ord. § 92.07, passed 8-12-89)
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
         Chapter
            
150.   BUILDING REGULATIONS
            
151.   PROPERTY MAINTENANCE CODE
            
152.   ZONING
            
153.   SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 150: BUILDING REGULATIONS
Section
   
150.01   Adoption of Kentucky Building Code and Standards of Safety;
enforcement agents
   
150.02   Application
   
150.03   Board of Building and Housing Appeals
   
150.04   Permits
   
150.05   Building Inspector
Vacant Property Review Commission
   
150.10   Adopting statutory references
   
150.11   Establishing the Vacant Property Review Commission
   
150.12   Duties of Commission
   
150.13   Number of members
   
150.14   Requirements of membership
   
150.15   Makeup of Commission
National Electrical Code
   
150.25   Appointment
   
150.26   Purpose and scope
   
150.27   Definitions
   
150.28   Adoption of National Electrical Code
   
150.29   Electrical Inspector; duties
   
150.30   Inspection
   
150.31   Reinspection
   
150.32   Power to disconnect service
   
150.33   Certificate of compliance
   
150.34   Right to access to building
   
150.35   Permit required and fees
   
150.36   Minor repairs excepted
   
150.37   Permit to do own work
   
150.38   Permits for decorative lighting
   
150.39   Partial or working permit
   
150.40   Filing of drawings and specifications
   
150.41   Necessity of approval
   
150.42   Failure to correct defects
   
150.43   Liability for damages
   
   
150.99   Penalty
§ 150.01 ADOPTION OF KENTUCKY BUILDING CODE AND STANDARDS OF SAFETY;
ENFORCEMENT AGENTS.
   (A)   The Kentucky Building Code, as promulgated in 815 KAR 7:010, 7:020,
and 7:030 by the Board of Housing, Buildings and Construction of the
Commonwealth of Kentucky; the Kentucky Plumbing Code, as contained in Chapter
20, Title 815 of the Kentucky Administrative Regulations; the Kentucky
Standards of Safety, as contained in Chapter 10, Title 815 of the Kentucky
Administrative Regulations, together with any amendments, are hereby adopted by
reference as if fully set forth in this code of ordinances. Copies of the above
codes and any amendments thereto shall be placed on file in the office of the
City Clerk where they shall be available for public inspection during normal
business hours.
   (B)   The Henderson County Codes Department shall be designated as the local
enforcement agency for the Kentucky Building Code. All building inspections
shall be performed by persons certified by the Kentucky Office of Housing,
Buildings and Construction. All electrical inspections shall be performed by a
state certified electrical inspector specifically approved by this
jurisdiction.
   (C)   The Chief and all members of the Corydon Volunteer Fire Department and
all designated officers, agents, and employees of the city are hereby charged
with the enforcement of the provisions of the Standards of Safety.
   (D)   The State Plumbing Inspector is charged with the enforcement of the
provisions of the Kentucky Plumbing Code.
(Am. Ord. 2013.01, passed 1-3-13) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.02 APPLICATION.
   The application of the State Building Code is extended to all residential
dwellings in the city, which are to be constructed or remodeled.
(Ord. Passed 3-14-87)
§ 150.03 BOARD OF BUILDING AND HOUSING APPEALS.
   (A)   Pursuant to KRS 198.B.070, a local appeals board is hereby
established, which shall be known as the Board of Building and Housing Appeals.
The Board shall consist of the five technically qualified persons with
professional experience relating to the building industry who shall be
appointed by the Mayor with the approval of City Council. No more than two
members of the Board may be employees of the city.
   (B)   The Board of Building and Housing Appeals is the agency of the city
designated to hear appeals from the decisions of the Building Inspector.
   (C)   Any party to a decision of the Building Inspector may appeal that
decision to the Board of Building and Housing Appeals. Upon receipt of an
appeal from a qualified party, the Board shall convene a hearing to hear the
appeal within 15 days of the receipt of the notice of appeal. All parties,
including the Building Inspector, shall be notified of the hearing by certified
mail no later than ten days prior to the date set for hearing. The Board shall
render a decision on the appeal no later than five days after the hearing.
   (D)   The Board of Building and Housing Appeals may uphold, amend, or
reverse a decision of the Building Inspector. A majority of a quorum of the
Board shall be sufficient to take action. The Board may establish its own rules
and regulations for the conduct of hearings, so long as they are not
inconsistent with the provisions of this section or any state statute or
regulation.
   (E)   There shall be no appeals from the decision of the Board of Building
and Housing Appeals other than by appeal to the State Board of Housing,
Building and Construction in accordance with KRS 198B.070.
§ 150.04 PERMITS.
   (A)   No permit as required by the Building Code shall be issued until the
fee prescribed by this section for construction of new buildings, whether
residential or commercial, accessory buildings, carports, swimming pools, etc.,
has been paid, nor shall an amendment to a permit be approved until the
additional fee, if any, due to an increase in the estimated cost or area of the
building or structure shall have been made.
   (B)   Fees for permits are set out in the list below:
TYPE OF PERMIT                  FEE
Frame residential building               $20 lst 100 sq. ft. and $5.00
accessory building                  per 100 sq. thereafter
 
Frame covered porches and patios         $20 lst 100 sq. ft. and $5.00 per
                        100 sq. ft. thereafter plus inspection fees
 
Concrete or concrete block               $20 lst 100 sq. ft.
Residential                      Building and accessory building and $5.00 per
100 sq. ft. thereafter, plus inspection fees.
 
Concrete or concrete block               $20 lst 100 sq. ft. and $5.00 per
covered porches and patios            100 sq. ft. thereafter, plus inspection
fees.
 
Brick or brick veneer residential             $20 lst 100 sq. ft. and
building and accessory building            $6.00 per 100 sq. ft.
                        thereafter plus inspection fees.
 
Brick or brick veneer covered            $20 lst 100 sq. ft. and $6.00
porches and patios                  per 100 sq. ft. thereafter, plus inspection
fees.
 
Stone or stone veneer residential            $20 lst 100 sq. ft. and $6.50
building and accessory building            per 100 sq. ft. thereafter, plus
inspection fees.
 
Stone or stone veneer covered            $20 lst 100 sq. ft. and $6.50
porches and patios                  100 sq. ft. thereafter, plus inspection
fees.
 
Garages (attached or unattached)         $20 lst 100 sq. ft and $5.50
                        per 100 sq. ft. thereafter, plus inspection fees.
 
Carports (attached or unattached)          $20 lst 100 sq. ft. and $4.00
                        per 100 sq. ft. thereafter, plus inspection fees.
 
Swimming Pools                  $20 lst 100 sq. ft. and $5.50
                        per 100 sq. ft. thereafter, plus inspection fees.
 
Trailers                     $40.00, plus inspection fees.
 
Commercial, industrial and all others except residential.
0 - $ 50,000               Up to    lst $1000 = $20 then $6.00 per $1,000 or
fraction thereof.
$25,001 - $50,000            $150.00 + $3.75 per $1,000 or fraction thereof
above $25,000.
$50,001 - $100,000            $338.00 + $2.75 per $1,000 or fraction thereof
above $50,000.
$100,001 - $200,000         $475.50 + $2.25 per $1,000 or fraction thereof
above $100,000.
$200,001 - $300,000         $650.50 + $1.75 per $1,000 or fraction thereof
above $200,000.
$300,001 - $400,000         $775.50 + $1.25 per $1,000 or fraction thereof
above $300,000.
$400,001 - $500,000         $850.50 + .75 per $1,000 or fraction thereof above
$400,000.
$500,001 - & HIGHER         $925.50 + .75 per $1,000 or fraction thereof above
$500,000.
Inspection fees shall be added to each of the above permit fees for all
commercial, industrial and other construction.
 
Remodeling
$0 - $25,000 up to lst         $1,000 = $20 then $6.00 per $1,000 or fraction
thereof.
$25,001 - $50,000            $150.00 + $3.75 per $1,000 or fraction thereof
above $25,000
$50,001 & Higher            $338.00 + $2.75 per $1,000 or fraction thereof
above $50,000.
Inspection fees shall be added to each of the above permit fees for all
remodeling.
 
Sign Erection
$10.00               Maximum dimension 8' X 8'
Inspection fees shall be added to each of the above permit fees for erection of
signs.
 
Removal and Demolition of all Buildings.
Commercial:               $50.00 for a building or structure with less than
5,000 sq. ft. of floor area.   $75.00 if over 5,000 sq. ft. of floor area.
Inspection fees shall be added to each permit for removal and demolition of all
buildings.
Residential:             No charge for a building if less than 1,000 sq. ft. of
floor area. $20.00 Charge if over 1000 sq. ft. of floor area.
Inspection fees shall be added to each permit for removal and demolition of all
buildings with over 1000 sq. ft. of floor area.
Removal Permit:            $20.00 for moving a building from one location to
another.
Inspection fees shall be added to each permit for moving a building from one
location to another.
 
   (C)   The above permit fees cover the costs of review plans to accomplish
the initial on-site inspection of the property, physical observation of the end
product to assure general compliance with initial plans, and review of required
technical inspection and approvals.
   (D)   Technical inspection requirements. Each and every new construction and
remodeling project shall be subject to the appropriate building code of the
trade involved (including, but not limited to carpentry, masonry, plumbing,
sewage disposal, electrical, heating, and air-conditioning). The property owner
shall be responsible for securing such technical inspections at his own expense
and presenting them for review by the city's Building Inspector as the work on
each technical phase is completed.
   (E)   For purposes of determining the fee for residential construction,
floor space shall be defined as any area wherein the ceiling height equals or
exceeds six feet six inches, except that for basements or cellars wherein as
much as 1/2 of the floor to ceiling height is below the average grade of the
adjoining ground, only 1/4 of such area shall be counted as floor space.
   (F)   Applicants for commercial and industrial building permits shall be
required to furnish to the Building Inspector an affidavit of the architect or
engineer, or where no architect or engineer is employed, of the general
contractor, stating the estimated cost of construction. In addition thereto,
the Building Inspector may require the applicant to submit his contract or
records showing the costs of the construction.
   (G)   The Building Inspector shall be permitted five (5) working days after
receiving an application for a building permit in which to investigate the
circumstances thereof before issuing a building permit.
   (H)   Each application for a building permit shall list the name or names of
the building contractors or the individual himself who will perform such
construction.
(Ord. passed 3-14-87; Am. Ord. 99-2, passed 1-21-99; Am. Ord. 99-25A, Passed 3-
10-99)
§ 150.05 BUILDING INSPECTOR.
   (A)   There is hereby created the office of Building Inspector and shall be
appointed by the Mayor, by and with the advice and consent of the City Council.
The Building Inspector may be removed by the Mayor at will.
   (B)   No person shall be appointed or act as Building Inspector unless such
person has taken the oath required by Section 228 of the Constitution of the
Commonwealth of Kentucky. No bond is required of the Building Inspector.
   (C)   The powers and duties of the Building Inspector shall be as follows:
      (1)   To inspect plans and drawings for new or additional construction as
would be required to be inspected by the Commonwealth of Kentucky. Office of
Housing, Building and Construction.
      (2)   To ensure that proposed building, building sites and re-modeling or
expansions of buildings and houses meet requirements of zoning building codes
and ordinances.
      (3)   To enforce the building ordinances and where applicable coordinate
such enforcement with the City Administrator and Code Enforcement Officer.
      (4)   To issue permits.
   (D)   To ensure that builders and contractors obtain the property
occupational and other city licenses.
   (E)   To periodically inspect the site and structure of building/ houses
during construction.
   (F)   To Building Inspector must be certified by the Commonwealth of
Kentucky.
   (G)   Upon complection of a structure, to ensure that construction is
property completed.
   (H)   To file a final inspection report with the City Clerk and other
property authorities as required by law.
(Ord. 2010.01, passed 2-4-10)
VACANT PROPERTY REVIEW COMMISSION
§ 150.10 ADOPTING STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   The city hereby adopts by reference, and incorporates by reference
herein, the following sections of the Kentucky Revised Statutes:
      TITLE IX. COUNTIES, CITIES, AND OTHER LOCAL UNITS
   CHAPTER 99. URBAN RENEWAL AND REDEVELOPMENT BLIGHTED AND DETERIORATED
PROPERTIES
 
Statute Effective Title
        Date
KRS §  July 13,  Definitions.
99.705  2004
KRS §  July 13,  Ordinance adopting provisions of state statutes on blighted or
99.710  2004      deteriorated areas — Vacant property review commission.
KRS §  July 13,  Acquisition and disposal of blighted property by city.
99.715  2004
KRS §  July 13,  Certification of blight deterioration — Notice to owner demanding
99.720  2004      abatement.
KRS §  July 13,  Eminent domain proceedings by city.
99.725  2004
KRS §  July 13,  Acquisition by certain employees prohibited — Disclosure of
99.730  2004      previous interest required — Payment under eminent domain
                  proceedings.
 
   (B)   A copy of each of the sections of the Kentucky Revised Statutes
identified above, and adopted herein by reference, accompanies this adopting
section and has been made a part of the permanent records of the city.
(Ord. 2005.06, passed 11-17-05)
§ 150.11 ESTABLISHING THE VACANT PROPERTY REVIEW COMMISSION.
   The city hereby establishes the Vacant Property Review Commission of
Corydon, Kentucky.
(Ord. 2005.06, passed 11-17-05)
§ 150.12 DUTIES OF COMMISSION.
   (A)   The Vacant Property Review Commission shall conduct regular, monthly
meetings. Said regular, monthly meetings shall be conducted on the second
Thursday of each month, at the hour of 7:00 p.m., in the Corydon City Building,
130 Main Street, Corydon, Kentucky 42406. Said regular, monthly meetings shall
be open to the public.
   (B)   At said regular, monthly meetings of the Vacant Property Review
Commission, shall hear petitions to certify real properties located in the City
of Corydon, Kentucky to the City Council as being blighted or deteriorated. The
Building Inspector for the city shall present petitions to certify to said
Commission. In addition, petitions to certify may also be presented to said
Commission by residents of the city, as well as such other persons as said
Commission may determine to possess relevant, credible, and reliable knowledge.
In hearing said petitions to certify, said Commission shall consider evidence
including, but not limited to photographs, and written and oral arguments.
   (C)   After hearing any given petition to certify, said Commission shall
discuss, deliberate and decide whether the real property at issue should be
certified to the City Council as being blighted or deteriorated. Said
discussions, deliberations, and decisions shall occur at a regular, monthly
meeting.
   (D)   Decisions and certifications of the Vacant Property Review Commission
shall be made by a majority vote.
(Ord. 2005.06, passed 11-17-05)
§ 150.13 NUMBER OF MEMBERS.
   (A)   The Vacant Property Review Commission shall consist of three (3)
members. Of the initial three (3) members of said Commission, one (1) member
shall be appointed to a term of three (3) years, one (1) member shall be
appointed to a term of two (2) years, and one (1) member shall be appointed to
term of one (1) year. As such, in any given year, exactly one (1) term shall
expire, with said expirations occurring on a rotating basis.
   (B)   Subsequent appointments to said Commission shall be for a term of
three (3) years. In the event that a vacancy occurs on said Commission for any
reason other than the natural expiration of a term, said vacancy shall be
filled for the remainder of the departing member's term; the term of the member
filling said vacancy shall expire on the same date as the departing member's
term would have expired.
(Ord. 2005.06, passed 11-17-05)
§ 150.14 REQUIREMENTS OF MEMBERSHIP.
   (A)   Members of the Vacant Property Review Commission shall be residents of
the City of Corydon, Kentucky who have attained the age of eighteen (18) prior
to the date of their appointment to said Commission.
   (B)   Members of the Vacant Property Review Commission shall be appointed by
the Mayor. However, any appointment of a member to said Commission made by the
Mayor must be approved by the City Council prior to said appointment becoming
effective.
(Ord. 2005.06, passed 11-17-05)
§ 150.15 MAKEUP OF COMMISSION.
   The Vacant Property Review Commission shall be made up of residents of the
City of Corydon, Kentucky who have attained the age of eighteen (18) prior to
the date of their appointment to said Commission. Although it is preferred that
the members of said Commission have a background involving the building trades,
including but not limited to, construction, engineering, or architecture, it is
not required that the members of said Commission have such a background.
(Ord. 2005.06, passed 11-17-05)
NATIONAL ELECTRICAL CODE
§ 150.25 APPOINTMENT.
   The Mayor of the City of Corydon ("Mayor") may appoint or contract
individual(s), pursuant to KRS Chapter 198B, as the Henderson County Electrical
Inspector. The aforementioned Mayor may also remove said Henderson County
Electrical Inspector for cause.
(Ord. 2013.02, passed 1-3-13)
§ 150.26 PURPOSE AND SCOPE.
   (A)   The purpose of this subchapter is to reduce the personal hazard and
the fire hazard from electrical causes. To accomplish this, the requirements
set out herein are intended to provide a minimum standard for electrical
installations within the City of Corydon.
   (B)   This subchapter shall apply to all electrical wiring and electrical
equipment, used, installed or maintained in the City of Corydon.
(Ord. 2013.02, passed 1-3-13)
§ 150.27 DEFINITIONS.
   The following words and phrases, when used in this subchapter, shall have
the meanings respectively ascribed to them:
   "ELECTRICAL." Pertains to the installation of wires and conduits for the
purpose of transmitting electricity, and the installation of fixtures and
equipment in connection therewith.
   "ELECTRICAL CONTRACTOR." Any individual, partnership or corporation that
engages in the business of or employs others for the construction, alteration,
or repair of any electrical wiring used for the purpose of furnishing heat,
light or power. Each "ELECTRICAL CONTRACTOR" shall be, or at all times have in
his or her employ at least one (1) licensed electrical contractor. Each
electrical contractor shall comply with KRS 227.480(2) (the requirements for
Worker's Compensation Insurance and unemployment insurance laws and
regulations).
   "ELECTRICAL INSPECTOR." Any person who is duly appointed or contracted by
the Mayor and certified by the Commissioner of Housing, Buildings and
Construction pursuant to KRS 227.489 who, for compensation, inspects the
construction and installation of electrical conductors, fittings, devices and
fixtures for light, heat or power service equipment to ascertain the compliance
with the National Electrical Code incorporated in the Uniform State Building
Code promulgated to KRS 198B.050 or the standards of safety of the state.
   "ELECTRICIAN." Any person who is employed by an electrical contractor and is
engaged in the construction, alteration or repair of any electrical wiring used
for the purpose of furnishing heat, light or power.
   "HOMEOWNER." An owner and on-site resident of a single-family dwelling.
(Ord. 2013.02, passed 1-3-13)
§ 150.28 ADOPTION OF NATIONAL ELECTRICAL CODE.
   All installations, construction, maintenance and operation of electrical
wiring, appliances and devices in and about buildings and on private or public
property, if not otherwise specifically covered in this subchapter, shall be
installed, constructed, maintained, operated and supplied in accordance with
the rules and regulations set forth in the edition of the National Electrical
Code most recently adopted by the Commonwealth of Kentucky, Department of
Housing, Building and Construction, a copy of which code is on file in the
offices of the County Clerk and the electrical inspector and which code is
hereby adopted by the city and incorporated herein by reference.
(Ord. 2013.02, passed 1-3-13)
§ 150.29 ELECTRICAL INSPECTOR; DUTIES.
   (A)   The provisions of this subchapter shall be administered by the
Henderson County Electrical Inspector(s), who shall issue permits for and
inspect all electrical wires, conduits, raceways and apparatus, and look after
the enforcement of the laws, rules and regulations relating to the use of
public streets for electrical wires, supports and apparatus in public and
private buildings. The Electrical Inspector shall answer any relevant questions
concerning, or give any desired information with respect to, the meaning of,
intent or application for this subchapter, however, he cannot lay out work or
act in the capacity of a consulting engineer for inexperienced contractors,
mechanics or owners.
   (B)   The electrical inspector(s) shall keep, or cause to be kept, a full
and complete daily record of all work permits issued and inspections made.
(Ord. 2013.02, passed 1-3-13)
§ 150.30 INSPECTION.
   All electrical work and installation of electrical equipment and conductors
covered by this subchapter shall be inspected by the Electrical Inspector. No
work shall be concealed unless approved by the Electrical Inspector and tagged
with a signed red "rough-in" inspection sticker. Failure by the Electrical
Inspector to make the requested "rough-in" inspection within three (3) working
days shall be considered as approval to conceal such electrical work. When
installation, repair or alterations of electrical wiring or equipment have been
completed, the Electrical Inspector shall be notified, and an inspection shall
be made within three (3) working days. If the Electrical Inspector fetuses to
approve any electrical installation, he or she shall notify the installer or
contractor within three (3) days. Such notice shall state the name of the
ordinance and section of the electrical code that has been violated. The
electrical work in violation shall be corrected, removed or an appeal filed in
Henderson Circuit Court within thirty (30) days from the date the inspection
was made. Failure to timely correct violations not appealed may subject the
installer or contractor liable to the penalties set forth in KRS 198B.990 as
provided by the Kentucky Building Code.
(Ord. 2013.02, passed 1-3-13)
§ 150.31 REINSPECTION.
   The electrical inspector is hereby authorized to reinspect all wiring,
appliances, devices, fixtures and equipment covered by this subchapter. When
the installation of any such wiring, appliance, device, fixture or equipment is
found to be in a dangerous or unsafe condition, the person owning, using or
operating the same shall be notified to make the necessary repairs or changes
required to place such wiring, appliances, devices, fixtures or equipment in a
safe condition, and shall have such work completed within ten (10) days after
notification or within such further reasonable times as may, upon request, be
prescribed. All electrical wiring, apparatus or equipment within or attached to
any building within the area of the county subject to this subchapter may be
systematically reinspected every two (2) years. It shall be unlawful for any
person to hinder or interfere with the electrical inspector in the discharge or
his or her duties.
(Ord. 2013.02, passed 1-3-13)
§ 150.32 POWER TO DISCONNECT SERVICE.
   The Electrical Inspector is authorized to disconnect or order the
discontinuance of electrical service to such conductors or apparatus found to
be in an unsafe or hazardous condition that poses an imminent threat to life or
property, or to have been installed without a permit, or not in accordance with
this subchapter. He or she shall thereupon post a written notice in a
conspicuous place stating the reason why the conductors or apparatus have been
disconnected, and it shall be unlawful for any person to remove the notice of
disconnection or to reconnect such defective conductors or apparatus until the
same have been installed in a safe and secure condition and have been approved
for use by the Electrical Inspector.
(Ord. 2013.02, passed 1-3-13)
§ 150.33 CERTIFICATE OF COMPLIANCE.
   The Electrical Inspector shall issue a certificate of compliance when the
electrical installation is completed and found to comply with this subchapter.
No certificate shall be issued on any incomplete work.
(Ord. 2013.02, passed 1-3-13)
§ 150.34 RIGHT TO ACCESS TO BUILDING.
   The Electrical Inspector shall have the right, during reasonable hours, upon
the showing of proper credentials, to enter any building and to discharge his
or her official duties or for the purpose of making inspection or test of the
installation of any electrical device or any electrical material contained
therein, in accordance with the Kentucky Building Code Administration, Section
113.4.
(Ord. 2013.02, passed 1-3-13)
§ 150.35 PERMITS REQUIRED AND FEES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to install, alter or repair any
electrical work covered by this subchapter without first obtaining a permit
from the Electrical Inspector. If the cost of an electrical installation is
less than two hundred dollars ($200), a permit shall be required but no fee
shall be charged. The life of a permit may be extended, if necessary, upon
application, but all permits shall be voided within sixty (60) days if the work
is not begun within that time. If work for which a permit is required commences
prior to obtaining a permit, the fee hereinafter provided shall be double, but
payment of such double fee shall not relieve any person from full compliance
with the requirements of this subchapter in the execution of the work performed
or any other penalties prescribed. Permits shall be issued only to a licensed
electrical contractor, except those issued to the county homeowner, or holders
of a limited license, issued by the Electrical Examining Board. Special one-
time permits may be issued to others for the installation of specialized
systems.
   (B)   Electrical construction permit fees are hereby established as follows:
      (1)   Single-Family Residential: $50.00 per inspection
      (2)   Industrial and Commercial: 1.5% of electrical contract
      (3)   Small Commercial: $1.00 per amp (based on size of service
enrollment)
   (C)   For the purpose of electrical permit fees each condominium unit shall
be considered as single-family residential.
(Ord. 2013.02, passed 1-3-13) Penalty, see §150.99
§ 150.36 MINOR REPAIRS EXCEPTED.
   Permits and inspection fees shall not be required for minor repair work,
such as repairing flush or snap switches, replacing fuses, changing lamp
sockets and receptacles, taping bare joints and repairing drop cords, nor for
experimental electrical work of a temporary nature in testing laboratories in
electrical shops, educational institutions and the like.
(Ord. 2013.02, passed 1-3-13)
§ 150.37 PERMIT TO DO OWN WORK.
   A permit to perform electrical work in or about the home may be issued to a
homeowner, provided that all work is performed by homeowner or a member of the
immediate family. The Electrical Inspector, however, shall not issue such
permits unless the person who is to perform the work is named in the permit and
appears before the Electrical Inspector and shows by answering such questions
as may be asked that said person has sufficient knowledge to properly perform
such work. If it is apparent from the character of the work performed that the
homeowner is not competent to perform the work under any permit issued, the
Electrical Inspector may require such portion of the work in violation be
changed, altered, or repaired by a licensed electrical contractor at the
expense of the homeowner. A permit shall be issued without fee to such
electrical contractor and the permit to the owner shall be cancelled.
(Ord. 2013.02, passed 1-3-13)
§ 150.38 PERMITS FOR DECORATIVE LIGHTING.
   Permits for temporary installation for indoor or outdoor decorative lighting
in a public building or areas shall be issued only when permission has been
granted as follows:
   (A)   During festivals, fairs, conventions and similar community events, the
Electrical Inspector may grant a special permit for a period not exceeding ten
(10) days for the installation of approved systems of decorative light over
roadways or sidewalk areas. If an extension of time is desired, for not more
than twenty (20) days, such permit may be renewed at the discretion of the
Electrical Inspector. A special permit from the Electrical Inspector shall be
required for any such installation to be maintained for a period of more than
thirty (30) days.
   (B)   A special permit from the Electrical Inspector shall be obtained
before any system of decorative lighting can be installed over any roadway or
sidewalk area when installed at a time when no festival, fair, convention or
the like is in progress.
(Ord. 2013.02, passed 1-3-13)
§ 150.39 PARTIAL OR WORKING PERMIT.
   When the exact amount of work to be done under any permit cannot be
definitely determined at the time of application for a permit, the Electrical
Inspector may issue a partial or working permit.
(Ord. 2013.02, passed 1-3-13)
§ 150.40 FILING OF DRAWINGS AND SPECIFICATIONS.
   Every person making application for any permit to do electrical work under
this subchapter may be required by the Electrical Inspector to file a set of
plans and specifications in sufficient detail to enable the Electrical
Inspector to determine if the work will be in compliance with the rules,
regulations and provision of this subchapter. A key to the symbols used shall
accompany all plans. If mains, feeders, branches and distributing panels are
shown on the plans, they shall be designated by letters or numbers.
(Ord. 2013.02, passed 1-3-13)
§ 150.41 NECESSITY OF APPROVAL.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to make any electrical connection to any
electrical wiring or equipment until approval has been given by the Electrical
Inspector. The Electrical Inspector is hereby authorized to disconnect any
electrical installation or equipment which has been connected before the
approval for service has been given. He or she shall thereupon attach a written
notice which shall state that the wiring or equipment has been disconnected by
the Electrical Inspector. It shall be unlawful tor any person to remove such
notice or reconnect the wiring before the site has been approved by the
Electrical Inspector.
(Ord. 2013.02, passed 1-3-13) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.42 FAILURE TO CORRECT DEFECTS.
   The Electrical Inspector is further authorized to deny the issuance of a
permit to any person licensed under the provisions of this subchapter who fails
to correct any defect, error or deficiency in any electrical work installed by
him or her until such time as such defects, errors and deficiencies are
corrected. It shall be unlawful to perform any electrical work, other than
correcting such deficiencies, during the period additional permits are being
denied.
(Ord. 2013.02, passed 1-3-13) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.43 LIABILITY FOR DAMAGES.
   This subchapter shall not be construed to affect the responsibility or
liability of any party owning, operating, controlling or installing any
electrical equipment for damages to persons or property caused by a defect
therein. Neither the city or any its agencies, boards, inspectors or employees
shall assume any liability by reason of the inspection, reinspection or other
examination of electrical work or equipment authorized, or by reason of the
certificate of compliance as herein provided, or by reason of the approval or
disapproval of any equipment authorized herein.
(Ord. 2013.02, passed 1-3-13)
§ 150.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who violates any provision of the state codes adopted in §
150.01 shall be subject to the following penalties:
   (A)   Violators of the State Building Code shall, upon conviction, be guilty
of a misdemeanor and subject to a fine of not less than $10 nor more than $1000
for each offense. (KRS 198B.990(1))
   (B)   Violators of the State Standards of Safety shall be, upon conviction,
guilty of a misdemeanor and subject to a fine of not less than $25 nor more
than $1000, imprisonment for not more than sixty (60) days, or both, for each
offense. (KRS 227.990(1))
   (C)   Violators of the State Plumbing Code shall be, upon conviction, guilty
of a misdemeanor and subject to a fine of not less than $10 nor more than $100,
imprisonment for not more than ninety (90) days, or both, for each offense.
(KRS 318.990).
   (D)   Any person violating any of the provisions of §§
150.25 through
150.43 or failing to conform to any of its provision, or failing to obey any
order of the Electrical Inspector issued pursuant to §§
150.25 through
150.43 shall, upon conviction, be fined not less than $25 nor more than $250,
or imprisoned for a term not to exceed ninety (90) days, or both.
(Am. Ord. 2013.02, passed 1-3-13)
CHAPTER 151: PROPERTY MAINTENANCE CODE
Section
International Property Maintenance Code
   
151.01   International Property Maintenance Code adopted
   
151.02   Insertions
   
151.03   Amendments
Nuisances
   
151.10   Prohibition
   
151.11   Notice to abate
   
151.12   Abatement by city
Junk Vehicles and Junkyards
   
151.20   Definitions
   
151.21   Repair work on motor vehicles within residential districts of the city
   
151.22   Storage of unlicensed, nonoperative, unfit, and abandoned motor
vehicles
   
151.23   Exceptions and exemptions
   
151.24   Authority of code enforcement officer or designee
   
151.25   Lien on abandoned motor vehicles for towing and storage charges
   
151.26   Reclamation of abandoned motor vehicles
   
151.27   Junkyards to have suitable screen
   
151.28   Effect on Traffic Code (Title VII)
Code Enforcement Board
   
151.40   Definitions
   
151.41   Creation and membership
   
151.42   Enforcement powers
   
151.43   Appointment of members; term of office; removal from office; oath;
compensation
   
151.44   Organization of Board; meetings; quorum
   
151.45   Conflict of interest
   
151.46   Powers of the Code Enforcement Board
   
151.47   Enforcement proceedings
   
151.48   Hearing; notice; and final order
   
151.49   Presentation of cases
   
151.50   Appeals; final judgment
Fines and Liens
   
151.60   Schedule of civil fines
   
151.61   Lien; fines, charges, and fees
   
151.62   Lienholder notification system
   
151.63   Liens
   
151.64   Immediate action
   
151.65   Transfer of ownership
INTERNATIONAL PROPERTY MAINTENANCE CODE
§ 151.01 INTERNATIONAL PROPERTY MAINTENANCE CODE ADOPTED.
   There is hereby adopted the International Property Maintenance Code (IPMC)
and all amendments thereto and subsequent editions thereof, as published by the
International Code Council, Inc., which code shall be in full force and effect
as if set out fully herein. A copy of such code shall be kept on file in the
City Clerk’s office. A height not to exceed ten (10) inches is hereby set for
IPMC Section 302.4 Weeds.
(Ord. 2020.03, passed 8-21-20)
§ 151.02 INSERTIONS.
   (A)   Section 101.1: City of Corydon shall be inserted replacing [NAME OF
JURISDICTION].
   (B)   Section 302.4: 10” shall be inserted, replacing [JURISDICTION TO
INSERT HEIGHT IN INCHES].
   (C)   Section 304.14: January 1 shall be inserted in the first [DATE] space
and December 31 shall be inserted in the second [DATE] space.
   (D)   Section 602.3: January 1 shall be inserted in the first [DATE] space
and December 31 shall be inserted in the second [DATE] space.
   (E)   Section 602.4: January 1 shall be inserted in the first [DATE] space
and December 31 shall be inserted in the second [DATE] space.
(Ord. 2020.03, passed 8-21-20)
§ 151.03 AMENDMENTS.
   The International Property Maintenance Code adopted in §
151.01  is amended as follows:
   (A)   The term “code official” shall be replaced with the term “code
enforcement officer” in all instances within the code and shall have the
meaning as set forth in §
151.40 .
   (B)   Section 103 subsection 103.5 entitled “Fees” shall be repealed and
replaced with new subsection 103.5 and shall read as follows:
      103.5 Fees. The fees for activities and services performed by the
Department in a carrying out its responsibilities under this code shall be as
indicated in §§
151.60  through
151.65 .
   (C)   Section 106 including subsections 106.1 , 106.2, 106.3, 106.4, and
106.5 are hereby repealed as all violations and penalties arising as a result
of the sections and provisions set forth in the International Property
Maintenance Code shall be governed as set forth in §§
151.40  through
151.50  and
151.60  through
151.65 .
   (D)   Section 107 including subsections 107.1 , 107.2, 107.3, 107.4, 107.5
and 107.6 are hereby repealed as all notices and orders arising as a result of
the sections and provisions set forth in the International Property Maintenance
Code shall be governed as set forth in §§
151.40  through
151.50  and
151.60  through
151.65 .
   (E)   Section 108 subsection 108.4 subpart 108.4.1 entitled “Placard
removal” shall be repealed and replaced with new subpart 108.4.1 and shall read
as follows:
      108.4.1 Placard removal. The code enforcement officer shall remove the
condemnation placard whenever the defect or defects upon which the condemnation
and placarding action were based have been eliminated. Any person who defaces
or removes a condemnation placard without the approval of the code enforcement
officer shall be subject to fees as set forth in §§
151.60  through
151.65 .
   (F)   Section 110 subsections 110.2 and 110.3 are hereby repealed as a
result of those sections and provisions set forth in the International Property
Maintenance Code shall be governed as set forth §§
151.40  through
151.50  and
151.60  through
151.65 .
   (G)   Section 111 including, but not limited to, subsections 111.1, 111.2,
111.3, 111.4, 111.5, 111.6, 111.7, and 111.8 and any subsection of each shall
be completely repealed in their entirety.
   (H)   Section 112 subsection 112.4 entitled “Failure to comply” shall be
repealed and replaced with new subsection 112.4 and shall read as follows:
      112.4 Failure to comply. Any person who shall continue any work after
having been served with a stop work order, except such work as that person is
directed to perform to remove a violation or unsafe condition, as set forth in
§§
151.60  through
151.65 .
   (I)   Section 302 subsection 302.8 is hereby repealed as a result of this
section as set forth in §§
151.20  through
151.28 .
   (J)   Section 304 subsection 304.3 entitled “Premises identification” shall
be repealed and replaced with new subsection 304.3 and shall read as follows:
      304.3 Premises identification. Building and house numbers or letters
shall meet the following requirements:
      (a)   Minimum three (3) inches in height,
      (b)   Shall be of contrasting colors to the building,
      (c)   Numbers shall be highly visible from the street or driveway on the
front of the building.
   (K)   Section 308 subsection 308.2 subpart 308.2.2 entitled “Refrigerators”
shall be repealed and replaced with new subpart 308.2.2 entitled “Appliances”
and shall read as follows:
      308.2.2 Appliances. Appliances shall not be kept, stored or used in any
exterior area where the appliances are accessible to the general public and may
be considered a hazard or a nuisance. Appliances shall mean any unit, or part
thereof, of machinery, furniture or equipment. Including but not limited to
stoves, refrigerators, freezers, washing machines, dryers, dishwashers,
television sets, beds, mattresses, lamps or tools. Exception to this would be a
properly installed kitchen area in an outside area located at the side or rear
of a residence.
   (L)   Section 303 Swimming Pools, Spas and Hot Tubs subsection 303.2
Enclosures shall be repealed and will be covered by the Kentucky Residential
Building Code, Appendix G.
(Ord. 2020.03, passed 8-21-20)
NUISANCES
§ 151.10 PROHIBITION.
   (A)   No resident shall allow materials, described as “clutter,” to be
stored on his or her property. The City of Corydon defines “CLUTTER” as any of
the following: an accumulation of new or salvaged construction materials,
salvaged metal, aluminum, plastic products, wooden or plastic pallets, tools
(working or nonworking), auto parts, furniture (in disrepair), appliances,
televisions, broken toys, inoperable lawn mowers, motorcycles or all terrain
vehicles, shopping carts, bicycles in disrepair or scattered around on the
subject property, or any other like materials accumulated in a disorderly,
unsightly manner.
   (B)   Each owner of property in the city, abutting upon a public street,
avenue, alley, or other public thoroughfare, shall keep clean and free of uncut
grass, weeds, or other growth, except shade trees, the grass plot between the
sidewalk and the curb line along his or her premises where sidewalks are
constructed, and, where pavements or sidewalks are not constructed, the owner
of abutting property shall be and he is hereby required to keep the public
street, avenue, alley, or thoroughfare free from such growth for a distance not
exceeding twelve (12) feet in front of and adjoining this property line.
(Ord. 2020.03, passed 8-21-20)
§ 151.11 NOTICE TO ABATE.
   Whenever a situation is discovered which violates §
151.10 , code enforcement officer or other responsible official designated by
the Mayor or by the code enforcement officer shall give ten (10) days written
notice to remedy such situation. The notice shall be mailed to the last known
address of the owner of the property as it appears on the current tax
assessment roll, or to the owner of the abandoned vehicle, or the property
owner where the nuisance exists, as it appears on the current tax assessment
roll.
(Ord. 2020.03, passed 8-21-20)
§ 151.12 ABATEMENT BY CITY.
   Upon the failure of the owner of property to comply with §
151.11 , the code enforcement officer or other responsible officer designated
by the Mayor or by the code enforcement officer is authorized to send City
employees upon the property to remedy the situation or to contract with a
person, firm, or corporation to remedy any violations that exist, and the owner
of the property shall be responsible for all charges plus twenty-five percent
(25%) incurred by the city for remedying the situation that exists.
(Ord. 2020.03, passed 8-21-20)
JUNK VEHICLES AND JUNKYARDS
§ 151.20 DEFINITIONS.
   The following words and phrases, when used in this subchapter, shall have
the meanings respectively ascribed to them:
   “ABANDONED MOTOR VEHICLE.” Any motor-driven vehicle which the owner or
owners thereof, including any person having a security interest therein, has
deserted and left unclaimed on any lot or parcel of ground within the corporate
limits of the city.
   “AUTOMOBILE” and “MOTOR VEHICLE PARTS.” shall mean and include any portion
or parts of any motor-driven vehicle as detached from the vehicle as a whole.
   “MOTOR VEHICLE IN AN INOPERATIVE CONDITION.” Any style or type of motor-
driven vehicle used or useful for the conveyance of persons or property which
is unable to move under its own power due to defective or missing parts and
which has remained in such condition for a period in excess of 30 consecutive
days.
   “MOTOR VEHICLE” or “MACHINERY JUNKYARD.” Any place where five or more
junked, wrecked or nonoperative vehicles, machines, and other similar scrap or
salvage materials are deposited, parked, placed or otherwise located.
   “MOTOR VEHICLE UNTIL FOR FURTHER USE.” Any style or type of motor-driven
vehicle used for the conveyance of persons of property which is in a dangerous
condition, has defective or missing parts or is in such condition generally as
to be unfit for further use as a conveyance.
(Ord. 2020.03, passed 8-21-20)
§ 151.21 REPAIR WORK ON MOTOR VEHICLES WITHIN RESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS OF THE
CITY.
   The practice of persons in repairing, stripping and painting motor vehicles,
of which the person is not the owner, whether for remuneration or otherwise,
within the residential districts of the city, is hereby prohibited and declared
to be a public nuisance.
(Ord. 2020.03, passed 8-21-20)
§ 151.22 STORAGE OF UNLICENSED, NONOPERATIVE, UNFIT, AND ABANDONED MOTOR
VEHICLES.
   No person shall keep, store, place or allow to remain in open view, motor
vehicles in inoperative condition, unlicensed motor vehicles, motor vehicles
unfit for further use, unsightly automobile or motor vehicle parts, abandoned
motor vehicles, and related refuse or rubbish from such vehicles on any lot or
parcel of ground within the corporate limits of the city.
(Ord. 2020.03, passed 8-21-20)
§ 151.23 EXCEPTIONS AND EXEMPTIONS.
   There is excepted and exempted from compliance with the provisions of §§
151.21  and
151.22  any person who is otherwise legitimately engaged in the business of
dealing with motor vehicles and has obtained a license for such business as
required by this code.
(Ord. 2020.03, passed 8-21-20)
§ 151.24 AUTHORITY OF CODE ENFORCEMENT OFFICER OR DESIGNEE.
   (A)   The code enforcement officer, or his or her subordinates and/or
designee, is hereby granted the authority to cite any person for allowing any
abandoned motor vehicle to remain located on any lot or parcel of ground within
the corporate limits of the city.
   (B)   The property owner or owner of the abandoned or junk motor vehicle,
shall have 30 days from the date of this notice to remove the abandoned and/or
junk vehicle or to make arrangements acceptable to the code enforcement officer
for the removal of such vehicle.
   (C)   After such notice, the code enforcement officer or his or her designee
is hereby granted the authority to remove, transport and store any abandoned or
junk vehicle which is located on any lot or parcel of ground within the
corporate limits of the city. The removal, transportation and storage of said
abandoned vehicle shall be at the sole expense of the owner of the vehicle or
landowner who allows the violation to occur on his or her lot or parcel of
ground.
   (D)   The city shall not be responsible for any damage to the abandoned or
junk motor vehicle, or property associated with the motor vehicle, as a result
of the removal of the abandoned or junk vehicle after proper notice to the
violator or owner of the property. After the vehicle has been towed to a
storage facility, the city, and any private person or entity who has taken
possession of the vehicle for storage, shall have a lien on the vehicle, which
shall be enforced pursuant to KRS 376.275. The owner of the property may redeem
the abandoned or junk motor vehicle within 30 days after its removal, said
redemption to be at the sole expense of the owner of the said property. At the
expiration of the 30-day storage, the storage lot owner or the city shall
dispose of the said property in any manner deemed appropriate by that person or
entity.
(Ord. 2020.03, passed 8-21-20)
§ 151.25 LIEN ON ABANDONED MOTOR VEHICLES FOR TOWING AND STORAGE CHARGES.
   Any person designated by code enforcement officer, or his or her
subordinates or designee, to remove, transport or store any abandoned motor
vehicle shall have a superior lien on the motor vehicle for the reasonable
charges for such towing or storage of the vehicle, and such person may sell
such abandoned motor vehicle for charges upon compliance with the provisions of
KRS 376.275 and KRS 376.280 relating to the notice and sale of motor vehicles
for such charges.
(Ord. 2020.03, passed 8-21-20)
§ 151.26 RECLAMATION OF ABANDONED MOTOR VEHICLES.
   The owner of any abandoned motor vehicle which has been removed, transported
and stored under this subchapter may, prior to the sale thereof, present
sufficient proof of ownership to the Chief of Police and the Chief of Police
shall order the release of the vehicle to the owner upon the payment of all
charges of advertisement, removal and storage. This section shall also apply to
any person who owns a security interest in any abandoned motor vehicle.
(Ord. 2020.03, passed 8-21-20)
§ 151.27 JUNKYARDS TO HAVE SUITABLE SCREEN.
   Any motor vehicle or machinery junkyard, located within the corporate limits
of the city, and along any right-of-way or street therein shall be screened
from the view of persons traveling along the right-of-way or street by means of
a fence, shrubs, trees or other natural foliage. The person acting as operator
of such motor vehicle or machinery junkyard shall be responsible for the
erection and maintenance of the screen directed by this section.
(Ord. 2020.03, passed 8-21-20)
§ 151.28 EFFECT ON TRAFFIC CODE (TITLE VII).
   This subchapter is not intended to amend, repeal or replace any portion of
the Traffic Code, codified at Title VII of the City of Corydon Code of
Ordinances.
(Ord. 2020.03, passed 8-21-20)
CODE ENFORCEMENT BOARD
§ 151.40 DEFINITIONS.
   The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall
have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context
clearly indicates a different meaning:
   “ABATEMENT COSTS.” A city’s necessary and reasonable costs for and
associated with clearing, preventing unauthorized entry to, or demolishing all
or a portion of a structure or premises, or taking any other action with regard
to a structure or premises necessary to remedy a violation and to maintain and
preserve the public health, safety and welfare in accordance with any city
ordinance.
   “CODE ENFORCEMENT BOARD.” An administrative body created and acting under
the authority of the Local Government Code Enforcement Board Act, KRS 65.8801
to 65.8839.
   “CODE ENFORCEMENT OFFICER.” The City Clerk, County Codes Administrator, or
other person designated by the Mayor with the authority to issue a citation for
violation of any city ordinance.
   “FINAL ORDER.” Any order:
      (1)   Issued by the Code Enforcement Board following a hearing in
accordance with §
151.48 ;
      (2)   Created because a violator neither paid nor contested the citation
within ten (10) days as provided in this subchapter; or
      (3)   Created because a violator failed to appear at a hearing the
violator requested to contest the citation as provided in this subchapter.
   “IMMINENT DANGER.” A condition which is likely to cause serious or
lifethreatening injury or death at any time.
   “ORDINANCE.” An official action of the local government body, which is a
regulation of a general and permanent nature and enforceable as a local law and
shall include any provision of a code of ordinances adopted by the city
legislative body which embodies all or part of an ordinance.
   “OWNER.” A person, association, corporation, partnership or other legal
entity having a legal or equitable title in real property.
   “PREMISES.” A lot, plot or parcel of land, including any structures upon it.
(Ord. 2020.03, passed 8-21-20)
§ 151.41 CREATION AND MEMBERSHIP.
   There is hereby created within the city pursuant to KRS 65.8801 to 65.8839,
a Code Enforcement Board which shall be composed of five members, all of whom
shall be residents of the city for a period of at least one year prior to their
appointment and shall reside there throughout the term in office.
(Ord. 2020.03, passed 8-21-20)
§ 151.42 ENFORCEMENT POWERS.
   (A)   The Code Enforcement Board shall have the power to issue remedial
orders and impose civil fines as a method of enforcing city ordinances when a
violation of the ordinance has been classified as a civil offense.
   (B)   The Code Enforcement Board shall not have the authority to enforce any
ordinance regulating conduct which would also, under any provision of the
Kentucky Revised Statutes, constitute a criminal offense or a moving motor
vehicle offense.
(Ord. 2020.03, passed 8-21-20)
§ 151.43 APPOINTMENT OF MEMBERS; TERM OF OFFICE; REMOVAL FROM OFFICE; OATH;
COMPENSATION.
   (A)   Members of the Code Enforcement Board shall be appointed by the Mayor,
subject to the approval of the City Council.
   (B)   The initial appointment to the Code Enforcement Board shall be as
follows:
      (1)   One member of the Board shall be appointed for a term of one year;
      (2)   One member of the Board shall be appointed for a term of two years;
and
      (3)   One (1) member of the Board shall be appointed for a term of three
(3) years.
   (C)   All subsequent appointments shall be for a term of three years. A
member may be reappointed, subject to the approval of the City Council.
   (D)   Any vacancy on the Board shall be filled by the Mayor, subject to
approval of the City Council, within 60 days of the vacancy. If the vacancy is
not filled within that time period, the remaining Code Enforcement Board
members shall fill the vacancy. A vacancy shall be filled for the remainder of
the unexpired term.
   (E)   A Board member may be removed from office by the Mayor for misconduct,
inefficiency, or willful neglect of duty. The Mayor shall submit a written
statement to the member and the City Council setting forth the reasons for
removal. The member so removed shall have the right of appeal to the Henderson
Circuit Court.
   (F)   All members of the Code Enforcement Board shall, before entering upon
the duties of their office, take the oath of office prescribed by Section 228
of the Kentucky Constitution.
   (G)   Members of the Code Enforcement Board shall be reimbursed for actual
expenses and compensated in the amount of $50 per meeting.
   (H)   No member of the Code Enforcement Board shall hold any elected or
nonelected office, paid or unpaid, or any position of employment with the city.
(Ord. 2020.03, passed 8-21-20)
§ 151.44 ORGANIZATION OF BOARD; MEETINGS; QUORUM.
   (A)   The Code Enforcement Board shall annually elect a chair from among its
members. The chair shall be the presiding officer and a full voting member of
the Board. In the absence of the chair, the remaining members of the Board
shall select a member to preside in place of and exercise the powers of the
chair.
   (B)   Regular meetings of the Code Enforcement Board shall be held on the
fourth Monday of every month. Meetings other than those regularly scheduled
shall be special meetings or emergency meetings held in accordance with the
requirements of the Kentucky Open Meetings Act.
   (C)   All meetings and hearings of the Code Enforcement Board shall be
public meetings held in accordance with the requirements of KRS 65.8815(5) and
the Kentucky Open Meetings Act.
   (D)   The presence of at least a majority of the Board’s entire membership
shall constitute a quorum. The affirmative vote of a majority of a quorum of
the Board shall be necessary for any official action to be taken.
   (E)   Action minutes shall be kept for all proceedings of the Code
Enforcement Board and the vote of any member on any issue decided by the Board
shall be recorded in the minutes.
(Ord. 2020.03, passed 8-21-20)
§ 151.45 CONFLICT OF INTEREST.
   Any member of the Code Enforcement Board who has any direct or indirect
financial or personal interest in any matter to be decided shall disclose the
nature of the interest, shall disqualify himself or herself from voting on the
matter in which he or she has an interest, and shall not be counted for
purposes of establishing a quorum.
(Ord. 2020.03, passed 8-21-20)
§ 151.46 POWERS OF THE CODE ENFORCEMENT BOARD.
   The Code Enforcement Board shall have the following powers and duties:
   (A)   To adopt rules and regulations to govern its operations and the
conduct of its hearings consistent with this chapter.
   (B)   To conduct hearings to determine if there has been a violation of an
ordinance over which it has jurisdiction.
   (C)   To subpoena alleged violators, witnesses and evidence to its hearings.
Subpoenas issued by the Code Enforcement Board may be served by any code
enforcement officer.
   (D)   To take testimony under oath. The chairman shall have the authority to
administer oaths for the purpose of taking testimony.
   (E)   To make findings of fact and issue orders necessary to remedy any
violation of a city ordinance or code provision which the Board is authorized
to enforce.
   (F)   To impose civil fines, as authorized, on any person found to have
violated an ordinance over which the Board has jurisdiction.
(Ord. 2020.03, passed 8-21-20)
§ 151.47 ENFORCEMENT PROCEEDINGS.
   The following requirements shall govern all enforcement proceedings before
the Code Enforcement Board:
   (A)   Enforcement proceedings shall only be initiated by the issuance of a
citation by a code enforcement officer.
   (B)   Except when immediate action is necessary pursuant to §
151.64 , when a code enforcement officer, based upon personal observation or
investigation, has reasonable cause to believe that a person has committed a
violation of a city ordinance, the code enforcement officer is authorized to
issue a citation by one of the following methods:
      (1)   Personal service to the alleged violator;
      (2)   Leaving a copy of the citation with any person eighteen (18) years
of age or older who is on the premises, if the alleged violator is not on the
premises at the time the citation is issued;
      (3)   Mailing a copy of the citation by regular, first-class mail to the
last known recorded mailing address of the alleged violator; or
      (4)   If, in the exercise of reasonable diligence, the issuance of a
citation using the methods set out in divisions (B)(1) through (3) is not
possible, then the citation is properly served by posting a copy of the
citation in a conspicuous place on the premises.
   (C)   When authorized by ordinance, a code enforcement officer may, in lieu
of immediately issuing a citation, give notice that a violation shall be
remedied within a specified period of time. If the person to whom the notice is
given fails or refuses to remedy the violation within the time specified, the
code enforcement officer is authorized to issue a citation.
   (D)   The citation issued by the code enforcement officer shall contain the
following information:
      (1)   The date and time of issuance;
      (2)   The name and address of the person to whom the citation is issued;
      (3)   The physical address of the premises where the violation occurred;
      (4)   The date and time the offense was committed;
      (5)   The facts constituting the offense;
      (6)   The section(s) of the code or the number(s) of the ordinance
violated;
      (7)   The name of the code enforcement officer;
      (8)   The civil fine that may be imposed for the violation, including, if
applicable:
         (a)   The civil fine that will be imposed if the person does not
contest the citation; and
         (b)   The maximum civil fine that may be imposed if the person elects
to contest the citation;
      (9)   The procedure for the person to follow in order to pay the civil
fine or to contest the citation;
      (10)   A statement that the code enforcement officer has the authority to
abate any and all deficiencies contained in the citation with all charges and
fees incurred by the city in connection with the enforcement of the ordinance
billed to the owner.
      (11)   A statement that if the person fails to pay the civil fine set
forth in the citation or contest the citation within the time allowed: the
person shall be deemed to have waived the right to a hearing before the Code
Enforcement Board to contest the citation; the determination that the violation
was committed shall be final; the citation as issued shall be deemed a final
order determining that the violation was committed and imposing the civil fine
as set forth in the citation; and the person shall be deemed to have waived the
right to appeal the final order to Henderson County District Court.
   (E)   After issuing a citation to an alleged violator, the code enforcement
officer shall notify the Code Enforcement Board by delivering the citation to
the board via email.
   (F)   Once a citation is issued, the code enforcement officer has the
authority to abate any and all deficiencies contained in the citation with all
charges and fees incurred by the city in connection with the enforcement of the
ordinance billed to the owner.
   (G)   (1)   The person to whom the citation is issued shall respond to the
citation within ten days of the date of issuance by either paying the civil
fine set forth in the citation, or abating the violation, or requesting, in
writing, a hearing to contest the citation. If the person fails to respond to
the citation within ten days, the person shall be deemed to have waived the
right to a hearing and the determination that a violation was committed shall
be considered final. In this event, the citation, as issued, shall be deemed a
final order determining that the violation was committed and imposing the civil
fine as set forth in the citation, and the person shall be deemed to have
waived the right to appeal the final order to Henderson County District Court.
      (2)   Notice of a final order shall be provided to the cited violator by:
         (a)   Regular first-class mail;
         (b)   Certified mail, return receipt requested;
         (c)   Personal delivery; or
         (d)   Leaving the notice at the person’s usual place of residence with
any individual residing therein who is 18 years of age or older and who is
informed of the contents of the notice.
(Ord. 2020.03, passed 8-21-20)
§ 151.48 HEARING; NOTICE; AND FINAL ORDER.
   (A)   When a hearing has been requested, the Code Enforcement Board or its
administrative staff shall schedule a hearing.
   (B)   Not less than seven days before the date of the hearing, the Code
Enforcement Board or its administrative staff shall notify the requester of the
date, time, and place of the hearing. The notice may be given by regular first-
class mail; personal delivery; or by leaving the notice at the person’s usual
place of residence with any individual residing therein who is 18 years of age
or older and who is informed of the contents of the notice.
   (C)   (1)   Any person requesting a hearing who fails to appear at the time
and place set for the hearing shall be deemed to have waived the right to a
hearing to contest the citation, and the determination that a violation was
committed shall be final. In this event, the citation as issued shall be deemed
a final order determining the violation was committed and imposing the civil
fine set forth in the citation, and the alleged violator shall be deemed to
have waived the right to appeal the final order to Henderson County District
Court.
      (2)   Notice of a final order shall be provided to the cited violator by
regular first-class mail; certified mail, return receipt requested; personal
delivery; or by leaving the notice at the person’s usual place of residence
with any individual residing therein who is 18 years of age or older and who is
informed of the contents of the notice.
   (D)   All testimony at the hearing shall be taken under oath and recorded.
Testimony shall be taken from the code enforcement officer, the alleged
violator, and any witnesses to the violation offered by the code enforcement
officer or alleged violator. Formal rules of evidence shall not apply, but
fundamental due process shall be observed and shall govern the proceedings.
   (E)   The Code Enforcement Board shall, based on the evidence, determine
whether a violation was committed. If it is determined that no violation was
committed, an order dismissing the citation shall be entered. If it is
determined that a violation was committed, an order may be issued upholding the
citation. The Board may impose a fine up to the maximum authorized by ordinance
or require the offender to remedy a continuing violation to avoid a fine, or
both.
   (F)   Every final order following a hearing shall be reduced to writing,
which shall include the findings and conclusions reached and the date the order
was issued. A copy shall be furnished to the person named in the citation by
regular first-class mail; certified mail, return receipt requested; personal
delivery; or by leaving the notice at the person’s usual place of residence
with any individual residing therein who is 18 years of age or older and who is
informed of the contents of the notice.
(Ord. 2020.03, passed 8-21-20)
§ 151.49 PRESENTATION OF CASES.
   Each case before the Code Enforcement Board shall be presented by an
attorney selected by the city, a code enforcement officer for the city, or by a
member of the city’s administrative staff. The City Attorney may either be
counsel to the Code Enforcement Board or may present cases before the Code
Enforcement Board, but shall in no case serve in both capacities.
(Ord. 2020.03, passed 8-21-20)
§ 151.50 APPEALS; FINAL JUDGMENT.
   (A)   An appeal from a final order of a Code Enforcement Board following a
hearing conducted pursuant to §
151.48  may be made to the Henderson County District Court within 30 days of
the date the order is issued. The appeal shall be initiated by the filing of a
complaint and a copy of the final order in the same manner as any civil action
under the Kentucky Rules of Civil Procedure.
   (B)   If no appeal from a final order of the Code Enforcement Board is filed
within the time period set in division (A) above, the Code Enforcement Board’s
order shall be deemed final for all purposes.
(Ord. 2020.03, passed 8-21-20)
FINES AND LIENS
§ 151.60 SCHEDULE OF CIVIL FINES.
   Violations of ordinances that are enforced by the city Code Enforcement
Board shall be subject to the following schedule of civil fines:
   (A)   (1)   If a citation for a violation of an ordinance is not contested
by the person charged with the violation, the penalties set forth in this
subsection shall apply and shall be calculated per noted violation:
Violation 1st Offense 2nd Offense All Others
Violation                                1st Offense 2nd Offense All Others
Animals, including bees                  $ 25.00     $ 50.00     $100.00
Unsafe and unfit structure code          100.00      125.00      150.00
Stop work order                          100.00      125.00      150.00
Placard removal                          10.00       25.00       50.00
Garbage                                  10.00       25.00       50.00
Weeds:
   (0 - 5 acres)                      10.00       25.00       50.00
   (5.1 - 10 acres)                   10.00       25.00       50.00
   (plus $3.00/acre over 5 acres)
   (10.1 - 20 acres)                  25.00       40.00       65.00
   (plus $5.00/acre over 10 acres)
   (Over 20 acres)                    75.00       90.00       115.00
   (plus $7.00/acre over 20 acres)
Any other nuisance covered under Code of 10.00       25.00       50.00
Ordinances
 
      (2)   All fines are in addition to potential abatement costs.
   (B)   (1)   If the citation is contested and a hearing before the Code
Enforcement Board is required, the following maximum penalties may be imposed
per noted violation at the discretion of the Code Enforcement Board:
Violation                                1st Offense 2nd Offense All Others
Unsafe and unfit structure code          $200.00     $500.00     $750.00
Stop work order                          200.00      500.00      750.00
Placard removal                          25.00       150.00      250.00
Garbage                                  25.00       150.00      250.00
Weeds:
   (0 - 5 acres)                      25.00       150.00      250.00
   (5.1 - 10 acres)                   25.00       150.00      250.00
   (plus $3.00/acre over 5 acres)
   (10.1 - 20 acres)                  40.00       165.00      265.00
   (plus $5.00/acre over 10 acres)
   (Over 20 acres)                    90.00       215.00      315.00
   (plus $7.00/acre over 20 acres)
Any other nuisance covered under Code of 25.00       150.00      250.00
Ordinances
 
      (2)   All fines are in addition to potential abatement costs.
(Ord. 2020.03, passed 8-21-20)
§ 151.61 LIEN; FINES, CHARGES, AND FEES.
   (A)   The city shall possess a lien on property owned by the person found by
a non-appealable final order as defined by §§
151.40  through
151.50 , or by a final judgment of the court, to have committed a violation of
a city ordinance. The lien shall be for all civil fines assessed for the
violation and for all charges and fees incurred by the city in connection with
the enforcement of the ordinance, including abatement costs. An affidavit of
the code enforcement officer shall constitute prima facie evidence of the
amount of the lien and regularity of the proceedings pursuant to KRS 65.8801 to
65.8839.
   (B)   The lien shall be recorded in the office of the County Clerk. The lien
shall be notice to all persons from the time of its recording and shall bear
interest until paid. The lien shall continue for ten years following the date
of the non-appealable final order or final court judgment.
   (C)   Subject to §
151.63 , the lien shall take precedence over all other liens, except state,
county, school board, and city taxes, and may be enforced by judicial
proceedings, including a foreclosure action.
   (D)   In addition to the remedy prescribed in division (A) above, the person
found to have committed the violation shall be personally responsible for the
amount of all civil fines assessed for the violation and for all charges, fees
and abatement costs incurred by the city in connection with the enforcement of
the ordinance. The city may bring a civil action against the person and shall
have the same remedies as provided for the recovery of a debt.
(Ord. 2020.03, passed 8-21-20)
§ 151.62 LIENHOLDER NOTIFICATION SYSTEM.
   The city shall implement a system for notification to lienholders that meets
the minimum requirements of division (A) below and shall comply with the
procedures to permit remedial action by lienholders as provided in division (B)
below in order to obtain and maintain the lien priority over previously filed
liens granted in KRS 65.8835.
   (A)   The city shall create a notification system that provides lienholders
and others that elect to do so with electronic notification of all final orders
entered pursuant to KRS 65.8801 to 65.8839. The system shall meet the following
minimum requirements:
      (1)   An individual or entity may register with the local government to
receive information on each final order by providing a name, mailing address,
phone number, and an electronic mailing address to the city. The city shall
accept this information in any form submitted by a registrant. It shall be the
responsibility of the registrant to maintain and update its contact information
with the city, except that the city shall inform a registrant of any evidence
the city receives that the electronic mailing address is invalid or not
functional in order to provide the registrant an opportunity to submit an
updated electronic mailing address;
      (2)   At least once a month, the city shall send electronic mail
notification of all final orders issued pursuant to the provisions of KRS
65.8801 to 65.8839 since the last date of notification to each party registered
pursuant to division (A)(1) above. The notification shall, at a minimum,
include or provide an electronic link to a document or database meeting the
requirements of subsection (A) that includes:
         (a)   The name of the person charged with a violation;
         (b)   The physical address of the premises where the violation
occurred;
         (c)   The last known mailing address for the owner of the premises
where the violation occurred, if, in the exercise of reasonable diligence, it
is ascertainable;
         (d)   A specific description of the citation leading to the final
order, including the citation detail set forth in KRS 65.8825(4)(a) to (h),
which may be satisfied by including a copy of the full citation;
         (e)   The findings of the final order, including the penalty or
penalties imposed by the final order, which may be satisfied by providing a
copy of the full final order; and
         (f)   The status of the final order in regards to its ability to be
appealed pursuant to KRS 65.8831, except that the city shall provide an update
to registrants if an appeal is filed or a final order pursuant to KRS 65.8831.
      (3)   At the same time the electronic notification required under
division (A)(2) above is sent, the city shall post this notification or provide
a summary of the information regarding each final order required by division
(A)(2) in a conspicuous place on its public website, which shall be affiliated
with the city and contain other information about the city. If the city posts
using summary form:
         (a)   The summary shall be calculated to reasonably allow
identification of the specific properties which may be impacted by the lien;
and
         (b)   Upon request, the city shall provide the complete record of a
final order created under division (A)(2) without charge.
      (4)   The city shall maintain the records created under this subsection
for a period of ten years following their issuance.
   (B)   (1)   A lienholder of record may, within 45 days from the date of
issuance of notification under division (A) above, correct the violation if it
has not already been abated, or elect to pay all civil fines assessed for the
violation and all charges and fees incurred by the city in connection with the
enforcement of the ordinance, including abatement costs. This division shall
not prohibit the city from taking immediate action if necessitated under KRS
65.8838.
      (2)   The lien provided by KRS 65.8835 shall not take precedence over
previously recorded liens if:
         (a)   The city failed to comply with the requirements of division (A)
above for notification of the final order; or
         (b)   A prior lienholder corrected the violation or paid all civil
fines assessed for the violation and all charges and fees incurred by the city
in connection with the enforcement of the ordinance, including abatement costs
within 45 days as provided in division (B)(1) above.
      (3)   A lien that does not take precedence over previously recorded liens
under the circumstances outlined in division (B)(2) above, shall, if the final
order remains partially unsatisfied, take precedence over all other subsequent
liens except liens for state, county, school board and city taxes.
      (4)   Nothing contained in this subsection shall prohibit the city from
recording a lien before the 45-day period established in division (B)(1) above
expires. If the lien is fully satisfied prior to the expiration of the 45-day
period established in division (B)(1) above, the city shall release the lien in
the County Clerk’s office where the lien is recorded within 15 days of
satisfaction.
   (C)   The city may delegate responsibility for compliance with this section
to code enforcement administrative staff as specified in this section.
   (D)   The failure of the city to comply with this section or the failure of
a lien to take precedence over previously filed liens as provided in division
(B)(2) above, shall not limit or restrict any other remedies that the city has
against the property or the violator.
   (E)   The requirements of this section shall not apply to a local government
when it enforces KRS 65.8840.
(Ord. 2020.03, passed 8-21-20)
§ 151.63 LIENS.
   (A)   A lienholder of record who has registered pursuant to §
151.62 (A)(1) may, within 45 days from the date of issuance of notification
under §
151.62 (A)(2):
      (1)   Correct the violation, if it has not already been abated; or
      (2)   Pay all civil fines assessed for the violation, and all charges and
fees incurred by the city in connection with enforcement of the ordinance,
including abatement costs.
   (B)   Nothing in this section shall prohibit the city from taking immediate
action if necessary under §
151.64 .
   (C)   The lien provided by §
151.61  shall not take precedence over previously recorded liens if:
      (1)   The city failed to comply with the requirements of §
151.62  for notification of the final order; or
      (2)   A prior lienholder complied with §
151.61 (B) above.
   (D)   A lien that does not take precedence over previously recorded liens
under division (C) above shall, if the final order remains partially
unsatisfied, continue to take precedence over all other subsequent liens except
liens for state, county, school board and city taxes.
   (E)   The city may record a lien before the 45-day period established in
division (A) above expires. If the lien is fully satisfied prior to the
expiration of the 45-day period, the city shall release the lien in the County
Clerk’s office where the lien is recorded within 15 days of satisfaction.
   (F)   The City Attorney is given authority to sign any release of liens
under this section on behalf of the City of Corydon.
   (G)   Failure of the city to comply with §§
151.62  and
151.63 , or failure of a lien to take precedence over previously filed liens as
provided in division (C) above, shall not limit or restrict any other remedies
the city has against the property of the violator.
(Ord. 2020.03, passed 8-21-20)
§ 151.64 IMMEDIATE ACTION.
   Nothing in this chapter shall prohibit the city from taking immediate action
to remedy a violation of its ordinances when there is reason to believe that
the violation presents a serious threat to the public health, safety, and
welfare, or if in the absence of immediate action, the effects of the violation
will be irreparable or irreversible.
(Ord. 2020.03, passed 8-21-20)
§ 151.65 TRANSFER OF OWNERSHIP.
   It shall be unlawful for the owner of any dwelling unit or structure who has
received a notice of violation, or upon whom a citation or final order has been
served to sell, transfer, mortgage, lease or otherwise dispose of such dwelling
unit or structure to another until the provisions of the notice of violation,
citation or final order have been complied with, or until such owner or the
owner’s authorized agent shall first furnish the grantee, transferee, mortgagee
or lessee a true copy of any notice of violation, citation or final order
issued by the code enforcement officer and shall furnish to the code
enforcement officer a signed and notarized statement from the grantee,
transferee, mortgagee or lessee, acknowledging the receipt of such notice of
violation, citation or final order and fully accepting the responsibility
without condition for making the corrections or repairs required by such notice
of violation, citation or final order.
(Ord. 2020.03, passed 8-21-20)
CHAPTER 152: ZONING
Section
   
152.01   Adoption of Henderson City-County Zoning Regulations
§ 152.01 ADOPTION OF HENDERSON CITY-COUNTY ZONING REGULATIONS.
   The Henderson City-County zoning regulations are hereby adopted by reference
and made a part of this code as if set forth in full herein. (Ord. passed - - ;
Am. Ord. passed 2-11-92; Am. Ord. - - , passed 5-15-97; Am. Ord. 99.6A, passed
10-20-99; Am. Ord. 99.6A, passed 12-6-99; Am. Ord. 2005.01A, passed 4-8-05; Am.
Ord. 2007.05, passed 11-15-07; Am. Ord. 2011.07, passed 3-1-12l Am. Ord.
2013.04, passed 5-2-13; Am. Ord. 2019-1, passed 2-21-19)
Cross-reference:
   Subdivision Regulations, see
Ch. 153.
   Zoning, Tables of Special Ordinances, see Table V.
CHAPTER 153: SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS
Section
   
153.01   Adoption by reference
§ 153.01 ADOPTION BY REFERENCE.
   The Subdivision Regulations of Henderson City-County are hereby adopted by
reference as if fully set out herein.
(Ord. - -, passed 11-97; Am. Ord. - - passed 12-97; Am. Ord. - -, passed 1-98,
Am. Ord. - - passed 8-98)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   Table
      
I.   CONTRACTS AND AGREEMENTS
      
II.   FRANCHISES
      
III.   MISCELLANEOUS
      
IV.   STREET NAMES
      
V.   ZONING
      
VI.   TAXATION
TABLE I: CONTRACTS AND AGREEMENTS
ORD. NO. DATE PASSED DESCRIPTION
ORD. NO. DATE PASSED DESCRIPTION
                     Approving an agreement with the Henderson County Water
152.1    6-13-66     District and providing for an election regarding the sale
                     of the city's waterworks system
152.2    8-1-66      Amending Ord. 152.1 regarding an agreement with the Water
                     District
                     Contract between the City of Corydon, County of Henderson,
20-82    7-27-82     and City of Henderson creating a joint City-County Human
                     Rights Commission
                     Amending the agreement establishing the Henderson County
        6-17-86     Joint Planning Unit and Planning Commission and Boards of
                     Adjustment for Henderson, Henderson County, and Corydon
                     Approving and authorizing execution of an Interlocal
154.1    6-17-87     Cooperation Agreement to establish the Kentucky Municipal
                     Risk Management Association
                     Authorizing execution of Trust Participation Agreement and
150.2    6-17-87     approving the purchase of insurance from the Kentucky Risk
                     Management Association
154.1.1  12-12-87    Amending Ord. dated 6-17-86 described above
        3-19-91     Authorizing participation in the Kentucky League of Cities
                     Investment Pool
                     Authorizing construction, acquisition and installation of
                     the City's new municipal sanitary sewer system;
93-6     6-17-93     authorizing issuance of sewer system revenue bonds, 1993
                     Series A and B; providing for the collection, segregation,
                     distribution, and disbursement of revenues; providing for
                     the rights of holders of bonds.
98.1     6-21-98     Authorizing an Interlocal Cooperation Agreement to
                     establish a board for Crawford Field.
                     Amending and restating the interlocal agreement
2014.02  9-4-14      establishing the Henderson County Joint Planning Unit and
                     Planning Commission and Boards of Adjustment for
                     Henderson, Henderson County, and Corydon.
                    
 
TABLE II. FRANCHISES
ORD. NO. DATE PASSED DESCRIPTION
ORD. NO. DATE PASSED DESCRIPTION
        2-1-60      Granting an electric franchise to Kentucky Utilities
                     Company
        12-2-74     Granting an electric franchise to Kentucky Utilities
                     Company
        1-12-87     Creating a CATV franchise
94-4     4-12-94     Granting an electric franchise to Kentucky Utilities
                     Company
2001-02  5-17-01     Granting a CATV franchise to Century Venture Corporation
                     D/B/A Adelphia Cable Communications
2013.10  11-21-13    Granting an electric franchise to Kentucky Utilities
                     Company
                    
 
TABLE III. MISCELLANEOUS
 
ORD. NO. DATE PASSED DESCRIPTION
-        2-24-92     Adopting procurement standards in conjunction with
                     Kentucky Community Block Grant fund expenditures
                     Granting use of property, streets and alleys for
92-3     9-3-92      construction of a small gravity sewage collection and
                     conveyance system.
                    
 
TABLE IV. STREET NAMES
 
ORD. NO.   DATE PASSED DESCRIPTION
5-30-87(B) 5-30-87     Defining the names of certain streets:
                       (a) Pritchett Street, located one block east of Main
                     Street, shall begin at 6th Street and continue south to
                       an end at Clark Street
                       (b) Brickyard Street shall begin at Powell Street and
                     continue west between 5th and 6th Streets to a dead end
                       at the Duncan lot
                       (c) Pentecost Street, located directly north of lst
                     Street, shall begin at Main Street, continue east and
                       end at Center Street
                      
 
TABLE V. ZONING
 
ORD NO. DATE   DESCRIPTION
        PASSED
               Amending Official Zoning Map per rezoning #550 Henderson City- County
       2-11-  Planning Commission: rezone from Industrial to Residential Multi-Family
        92     off Wilson Lane, a pentagon shaped area adjacent to and immediately south
               of 530 Wilson Lane containing approximately 3.5 acres.
98-6    10-1-  Amending the official zoning map by rezoning property located at 511
        98     Hancock Street from single-family residential to multi-family residential.
        10-20- Amending zoning ordinance, §4.07(A) 1 regarding manufactured homes/mobile
99.6A   99     homes as conditional uses on private lots only in a residential multi-
               family district.
2007.05 11-15- Amending the official zoning map by rezoning property located at 330
        07     Seventh Street from General Business to Single-Family Residential.
        7-17-  Amending the official zoning map by rezoning property located at 531 Main
2008.02 08     Street from R-S, Single-Family to General Business with a Development
               Plan.
              
 
TABLE VI TAXATION
ORD. NO. DATE PASSED DESCRIPTION
ORD. NO. DATE PASSED DESCRIPTION
                     There is levied for the year 1998 the general ad valorem
98.3     9-17-98     tax rate per one hundred dollars ($100.00) valuation on
                     all taxable property within the city.
                      Real estate .126
                      Tangible property .285
                      Motor Vehicles 17.00 cents
                      Water Crafts 17.00 cents
                     Levying a special ad valorem tax for the wastewater system
98.4     9-17-98     of 8.5 cents per one hundred dollars ($100.00) assessed
                     valuation of property for the year 1998.
99.4     10-21-99    Ad valorem taxes for the year 1999 levied on each one
                     hundred dollars ($100.00) assessed valuation as follows:
                      (1) Real estate at .126;
                      (2) Tangible property at .254;
                      (3) Motor vehicles at 17.00 cents;
                      (4) Water craft at 17.00 cents.
                     Special ad valorem tax for the wastewater system at 8.5
99.5     10-21-99    cents per one hundred dollars ($100.00) assessed valuation
                     of property for the year 1999.
2000-04  10-10-00    Ad valorem taxes for the year 2000 levied on each one
                     hundred dollars ($100.00) assessed valuation as follows:
                      (1) Real estate at .126;
                      (2) Tangible property at .274;
                      (3) Intangible property at .000250;
                      (4) Motor vehicles at 17.00 cents;
                      (5) Water craft at 17.00 cents.
                     Special ad valorem tax for the wastewater system at 8.5
2000-05  10-10-00    cents per one hundred dollars ($100.00) assessed valuation
                     of property for the year 2000.
2001-03  11-1-01     Ad valorem taxes for the year 2001 levied on each one
                     hundred dollars ($100.00) assessed valuation as follows:
                      (1) Real estate at .126;
                      (2) Tangible property at .323;
                      (3) Intangible property at .000250;
                      (4) Motor vehicles at 17.00 cents;
                      (5) Water craft at 17.00 cents.
                     Special ad valorem tax for the wastewater system at 8.5
2001-04  11-1-01     cents per one hundred dollars ($100.00) assessed valuation
                     of property for the year 2001.
2002-02  9-26-02     Ad valorem taxes for the year 2002 levied on each one
                     hundred dollars ($100.00) assessed valuation as follows:
                      (1) Real estate at .127;
                      (2) Tangible property at .302;
                      (3) Motor vehicles at 17.00 cents;
                      (4) Water-craft at 17.00 cents.
                     Special ad valorem tax for the wastewater system at 8.5
2002-03  9-26-02     cents per one hundred dollars ($100.00) assessed valuation
                     of property for the year 2002.
2003-05  10-7-03     Ad valorem taxes for the year 2003 levied on each one
                     hundred dollars ($100.00) assessed valuation as follows:
                      (1) Real estate at .117;
                      (2) Tangible property at .302;
                      (3) Motor vehicles at 17.00 cents;
                      (4) Water-craft at 17.00 cents.
                     Special ad valorem tax for the wastewater system at 8.5
2003-06  10-7-03     cents per one hundred dollars ($100.00) assessed valuation
                     of property for the year 2003.
2004-05  10-7-04     Ad valorem taxes for the year 2004 levied on each one
                     hundred dollars ($100.00) assessed valuation as follows:
                      (1) Real estate at .116;
                      (2) Tangible property at .349;
                      (3) Motor vehicles at 17.00 cents;
                      (4) Water-craft at 17.00 cents.
                     Special ad valorem tax for the sewer fund at 8.5 cents per
2004-06  10-7-04     one hundred dollars ($100.00) assessed valuation of
                     property for the year 2004.
2005.04  10-6-05     Ad valorem taxes for the year 2005 levied on each one
                     hundred dollars ($100.00) assessed valuation as follows:
                      (1) Real estate at .106;
                      (2) Tangible property at .335;
                      (3) Motor vehicles at 17.00 cents;
                      (4) Water-craft at 17.00 cents.
                     Special ad valorem tax for the sewer fund at 8.5 cents per
2005.05  10-6-05     one hundred dollars ($100.00) assessed valuation of
                     property for the year 2005.
2006.03  9-21-06     Ad valorem taxes for the year 2006 levied on each one
                     hundred dollars ($100.00) assessed valuation as follows:
                      (1) Real estate at .104;
                      (2) Tangible property at .282;
                      (3) Motor vehicles at 17.00 cents;
                      (4) Water-craft at 17.00 cents.
                     Special ad valorem tax for the sewer fund at 8.5 cents per
2006.04  9-21-06     one hundred dollars ($100.00) assessed valuation of
                     property for the year 2006.
2007.03  9-20-07     Ad valorem taxes for the year 2007 levied on each one
                     hundred dollars ($100.00) assessed valuation as follows:
                      (1) Real estate at .108;
                      (2) Tangible property at .236;
                      (3) Motor vehicles at 17.00 cents;
                      (4) Water-craft at 17.00 cents.
                     Special ad valorem tax for the sewer fund at 8.5 cents per
2007.04  9-20-07     one hundred dollars ($100.00) assessed valuation of
                     property for the year 2006.
2008.04  9-18-08     Ad valorem taxes for the year 2008 levied on each one
                     hundred dollars ($100.00) assessed valuation as follows:
                      (1) Real estate at .108;
                      (2) Tangible property at .268;
                      (3) Motor vehicles at 17.00 cents;
                      (4) Water-craft at 17.00 cents.
                     Special ad valorem tax for the sewer fund at 8.5 cents per
2008.05  9-18-08     one hundred dollars ($100.00) assessed valuation of
                     property for the year 2008.
2009.02  11-17-09    Ad valorem taxes for the year 2009 levied on each one
                     hundred dollars ($100.00) assessed valuation as follows:
                      (1) Real estate at .103;
                      (2) Tangible property at .133;
                      (3) Motor vehicles at 17.00 cents;
                      (4) Water-craft at 17.00 cents.
                     Special ad valorem tax for the sewer fund at 8.5 cents per
2009.03  11-17-09    one hundred dollars ($100.00) assessed valuation of
                     property for the year 2009.
2010.03  10-7-10     Ad valorem taxes for the year 2010 levied on each one
                     hundred dollars ($100.00) assessed valuation as follows:
                      (1) Real estate at .102;
                      (2) Tangible property at .130;
                      (3) Motor vehicles at 17.00 cents;
                      (4) Water-craft at 17.00 cents.
                     Special ad valorem tax for the sewer fund at 8.5 cents per
2009.03  11-17-09    one hundred dollars ($100.00) assessed valuation of
                     property for the year 2010.
2011.05  10-20-11    Ad valorem taxes for the year 2011 levied on each one
                     hundred dollars ($100.00) assessed valuation as follows:
                      (1) Real estate at .102;
                      (2) Tangible property at .130
                      (3) Motor vehicles at 17.00 cents;
                      (4) Water-craft at 17.00 cents.
                     Special ad valorem tax for the sewer fund at 8.5 cents per
2011.06  10-20-11    one hundred dollars ($100.00) assessed valuation of
                     property for the year 2011.
                     Special ad valorem tax for the sewer fund at 8.5 cents per
2012.02  9-24-12     one hundred dollars ($100.00) assessed valuation of
                     property for the year 2012.
2012.05  9-24-12     Ad valorem taxes for the year 2012 levied on each one
                     hundred dollars ($100.00) assessed valuation as follows:
                      (1) Real estate at .102;
                      (2) Tangible property at .130
                      (3) Motor vehicles at 17.00 cents;
                      (4) Water-craft at 17.00 cents.
                     Special ad valorem tax for the sewer fund at 8.5 cents per
2012.07  9-24-12     one hundred dollars ($100.00) assessed valuation of
                     property for the year 2012.
2013.08  9-24-13     Ad valorem taxes for the year 2013 levied on each one
                     hundred dollars ($100.00) assessed valuation as follows:
                      (1) Real estate at .099;
                      (2) Tangible property at .118;
                      (3) Motor vehicles at 17.00 cents;
                      (4) Water-craft at 17.00 cents.
                     Special ad valorem tax for the sewer fund at 8.5 cents per
2013.09  9-19-13     one hundred dollars ($100.00) assessed valuation of
                     property for the year 2013.
2014.03  9-18-14     Ad valorem taxes for the year 2014 levied on each one
                     hundred dollars ($100.00) assessed valuation as follows:
                      (1) Real estate at .098;
                      (2) Tangible property at .115;
                      (3) Motor vehicles at 17.00 cents;
                      (4) Water-craft at 17.00 cents.
                     Special ad valorem tax for the sewer fund at 8.5 cents per
2014.04  9-18-14     one hundred dollars ($100.00) assessed valuation of
                     property for the year 2014.
2015.03  9-3-15      Ad valorem taxes for the year 2015 levied on each one
                     hundred dollars ($100.00) assessed valuation as follows:
                      (1) Real estate at .084;
                      (2) Tangible property at .115;
                      (3) Motor vehicles at 17.00 cents;
                      (4) Water-craft at 17.00 cents.
                     Special ad valorem tax for the sewer fund at 8.5 cents per
2015.04  9-3-15      one hundred dollars ($100.00) assessed valuation of
                     property for the year 2015.
2016.05  9-20-16     Ad valorem taxes for the year 2016 levied on each one
                     hundred dollars ($100.00) assessed valuation as follows:
                      (1) Real estate at .085;
                      (2) Tangible property at .152;
                      (3) Motor vehicles at 17.00 cents;
                      (4) Water-craft at 17.00 cents.
                     Special ad valorem tax for the sewer fund at 8.5 cents per
2016.06  9-21-16     one hundred dollars ($100.00) assessed valuation of
                     property for the year 2016.
2017.01  3-26-17     Ad valorem property tax rates and collection procedures.
2017.04  9-26-17     Ad valorem taxes for the 2017 tax year levied on each one
                     hundred dollars ($100.00) assessed valuation as follows:
                      (1) Real estate at .105;
                      (2) Tangible property at .2251;
                      (3) Motor vehicles at 17.00 cents;
                      (4) Water-craft at 17.00 cents.
                     Special ad valorem tax of 1.05 cents (.105) on each one
2017.05  9-26-17     hundred dollars ($100.00) worth of property for the sewer
                     fund for tax year 2017.
2017.07  10-2-17     Correcting error in Ord. 2017.05. Special ad valorem tax
                     rate should be 0.85 cents ($0.085).
2018.03  9-25-18     Ad valorem taxes for the 2018 tax year levied on each one
                     hundred dollars ($100.00) assessed valuation as follows:
                      (1) Real estate at .90;
                      (2) Tangible property at .1811;
                      (3) Motor vehicles at 17.00 cents;
                      (4) Water-craft at 17.00 cents.
                     Special ad valorem tax of 0.85 cents on each one hundred
2018.04  9-25-18     dollars ($100.00) worth of property for the sewer fund for
                     tax year 2018.
                     Special ad valorem tax of 0.85 cents on each one hundred
2019.04  9-19-19     dollars ($100.00) worth of property for the sewer fund for
                     tax year 2019.
2019.05  9-19-19     Ad valorem taxes for the 2019 tax year levied on each one
                     hundred dollars ($100.00) assessed valuation as follows:
                      (1)   Real estate at .111;
                      (2)   Tangible property at .1526;
                      (3)   Motor vehicles at 15.26 cents;
                      (4)   Water-craft at 15.26 cents.
                     Special ad valorem tax of 0.85 cents on each one hundred
2020.04  9-17-20     dollars ($100.00) worth of property for the sewer fund for
                     tax year 2020.
2020.05  9-17-20     Ad valorem taxes for the 2020 tax year levied on each one
                     hundred dollars ($100.00) assessed valuation as follows:
                      (1)   Real estate at .088;
                      (2)   Tangible property at .1555;
                      (3)   Motor vehicles at 15.55 cents;
                      (4)   Water-craft at 15.55 cents.
2021.05  9-16-21     Ad valorem taxes for the 2021 tax year levied on each one
                     hundred dollars ($100.00) assessed valuation as follows:
                      (1)   Real estate at .090;
                      (2)   Tangible property at .1555;
                      (3)   Motor vehicles at 15.55 cents;
                      (4)   Water-craft at 15.55 cents.
                     Special ad valorem tax of 0.85 cents on each one hundred
2021.06  9-16-21     dollars ($100.00) worth of property for the sewer fund for
                     tax year 2021.
                    
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
REFERENCES TO KENTUCKY REVISED STATUTES
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
REFERENCES TO KENTUCKY REVISED STATUTES
KRS Section Code Section
KRS Section                 Code Section
Section 43, Ky. Const.      32.48
                            31.01(A),
                            31.36(D),
Section 228, Ky. Const.     31.45,
                            150.01,
                            151.43
Section 246, Ky. Const.     31.02(A)
6.050                       32.48
6.955 - 6.975               33.04(F), (H)
Ch. 13A                     93.02
Ch. 13B                     93.05
18A.225(2)                  113.03
Ch. 31                   34.12
42.450 - 42.495             33.04(G)
43.050                      33.04(M)
Ch. 45A                     34.12,
                            34A.04
Ch. 56                      34.12,
                            34A.04
Ch. 61                      32.21
61.168                      34.12
61.805                      34A.01
61.810                      34A.04
61.815                      34A.05
61.820                      34A.06,
                            34A.08
61.823                      34A.07,
                            34A.08
61.846                      34A.09
61.848                      34A.09
61.870(1)                   34.01
61.870(1)(h)                34.01
61.870(2)                   34.01
61.870(3)                   34.01
61.870(4)                   34.01
61.870(5)                   34.01
61.870(6)                   34.01
61.870(7)                   34.01
61.870(8)                   34.01
61.870(10)                  34.01
61.870 - 61.882             31.36
61.870 - 61.884             34.09 ,
                            38.49
61.872 - 61.884             38.16
61.872(1)                   34.05
61.872(2)                   34.05
61.872(3)                   34.05
61.872(4)                   34.06
61.872(5)                   34.07
61.872(6)                   34.08
61.874(1)                   34.05(D)
61.876                      34.05
61.876(4)                   34.05
61.878                      34.01,
                            34.12
61.878(1)(i)                34A.04
61.880                      34.09
61.880(1)                   34.12
61.882                      34.09
61.884                      34.11
62.020                      31.01
Ch. 65                      38.01
65.067                      31.01
65.120                      72.01
                            151.40 ,
65.8801 - 65.8839           151.41 ,
                            151.61 ,
                            151.62
65.8815(5)                  151.44
65.8825(4)(a) - (h)         151.62
65.8831                     151.62
65.8835                     151.62
65.8838                     151.62
65.8840                     151.62
Ch. 83A                     32.02
83A.010(5)                  10.02
83A.010(6)                  10.02
83A.010(7)                  10.02
83A.010(8)                  10.02
83A.010(9)                  10.02
83A.010(10)                 10.02
83A.010(11)                 10.02
83A.030(1)                  30.02(B)
83A.040(1)                  31.21
83A.040(2)(a)               31.21
83A.040(2)(c)               31.21
83A.040(2)(d)               31.21
83A.040(3)                  31.21
83A.040(4)                  32.01
83A.040(5)                  32.02
83A.040(6)                  31.21
83A.040(7)                  31.21,
                            32.02
83A.040(8)                  31.21,
                            32.02
83A.040(9)                  31.03,
                            31.21
83A.045(2)                  31.20
83A.050                     31.20
83A.060(1)                  32.35
83A.060(2)                  32.36
83A.060(3)                  32.37
83A.060(4), (7)             32.38
83A.060(5)                  Adopting Ordinance,
                            32.40
83A.060(6)                  32.22
83A.060(8)                  32.41,
                            32.42
83A.060(9)                  32.43
83A.060(10)                 32.44
83A.060(11)                 32.45
83A.060(12), (13)           32.46
83A.060(14)                 32.47
83A.060(15)                 32.48
83A.070                     31.02
83A.070(2)                  37.01
83A.075                     31.02
83A.080(1)                  31.35
83A.080(2)                  31.03,
                            31.35
83A.080(3)                  31.20
83A.080(4)                  31.20
83A.085                     31.36
83A.130                     31.21
83A.130(1)                  30.01
83A.130(2)                  30.02(A)
83A.130(3)                  31.21
83A.130(4)                  31.21
83A.130(5)                  32.20
83A.130(6)                  32.39
83A.130(7)                  31.21
83A.130(8)                  31.21
83A.130(9)                  31.21
83A.130(10)                 31.21
83A.130(11)                 32.30(A),
                            32.21
83A.130(12)                 32.03(B), (C)
83A.130(13)                 32.03(D)
91A.010(6), (7)             33.01
91A.010(7)                  10.02
91A.020                     33.02
91A.030                     33.03
91A.040                     33.04
91A.050                     33.04
91A.060                     33.05
91A.200                     33.11(A)
91A.210                     33.10
91A.220                     33.11
91A.230                     33.12
91A.240                     33.13
91A.250                     33.14
91A.260                     33.15
91A.270                     33.16
91A.280                     33.17
91A.290                     33.18
92.310                      110.05
97.010 et seq.              36.05
99.705                      150.10
99.710                      150.10
99.715                      150.10
99.720                      150.10
99.725                      150.10
99.730                      150.10
Ch. 118                     31.20
131.010 (6)                 113.04
131.190                     34.12
132.285                     35.01
134.120                     35.03
134.420                     116.03
134.800                     35.04
134.810                     35.04
Ch. 136                     116.01
137.010                     110.13
137.410                     110.13
174.100                     91.15
174.100 (1)                 91.16
174.100 (2), (3)            91.17
174.100 (4)                 91.18
174.100 (5)                 91.19
174.100 (6), (7)            91.20
186A.145                    72.22
189.010 (19)                70.01
189.020                     71.27
189.290                     71.25
189.330 (8)                 71.02
189.338                     70.15
189.378                     71.35,
                            71.99(C)
189.378 (1)                 70.01
189.450 (5) - (7)           72.03
189.580                     71.15
189.635(8)(b)1.a. - e.      34.01
189.700                     71.40
189.725                     72.08
189.910                     71.35
189.920                     71.35
189.930                     71.26
189.990 (1)                 72.99
189.990 (2)(a)              71.06
189.993 (8)                 71.99(B)
Ch. 198B                    150.25
198B.050                    150.27
198B.070                    150.03
198B.990                    150.30
198B.990(1)                 150.99(A)
226.010                     112.01
226.020                     112.02
226.030                     112.07
226.040                     112.03(A) - (C)
226.050                     112.04
226.070                     112.03(B)
226.080                     112.05
226.090                     112.06
226.990 (1)                 112.99
227.480 (2)                 150.27
227.489                     150.27
227.700                     93.01
227.700 - 227.750           93.01,
                            93.05
227.702                     93.01,
                            93.02
227.704                     93.01
227.706                     93.01
227.708                     93.01
227.710                     93.02
227.715                     93.01,
                            93.02
227.720                     93.03
227.730                     93.04
227.740                     93.04
227.750                     93.05
227.990 (1)                 150.99(B)
227.990 (4)                 93.99(A)
257.100                     90.06
257.100 (4)                 90.01
Ch. 281                     72.21
281.920 - 281.936           72.22
281.926                     72.22
281.928                     72.21 ,
                            72.22
281.928(1)                  72.22
291.932                     72.22
318.990                     150.99(C)
359.230                     72.22
                            72.22 ,
376.275                     151.24 ,
                            151.25
376.275 (1), (2) (Repealed) 72.21
376.280                     151.25
Ch. 386                     10.02
Ch. 386A                    10.02
Ch. 424                     32.43 (A),
                            33.04 (I)
424.220                     33.04 (B), - (D),(I)
436.600                     90.04,
                            90.99(C)
446.010 (1)                 10.02
446.010 (2)                 10.02
446.010 (6)                 10.02
446.010 (8)                 10.02
446.010 (9)                 10.02
446.010 (10)                10.02
446.010 (11)                10.02
446.010 (13)                10.02
446.010 (14)                10.02
446.010 (15)                10.02
446.010 (16)                10.02
446.010 (18)                10.02
446.010 (19)                10.02
446.010 (24)                10.02
446.010 (26)                10.02
446.010 (27)                10.02
446.010 (28)                10.02
446.010 (30)                10.02
446.010 (31)                10.02
446.010 (33)                10.02
446.010 (36)                10.02
446.010 (37)                10.02
446.010 (39)                10.02
446.010 (43)                10.02
446.010 (46)                10.02
446.010 (47)                10.02
446.010 (49)                10.02
446.010 (55)                10.02
446.020 (1)                 10.03(A)
446.020 (2)                 10.03(B)
446.030                     10.04
446.050                     10.05
446.060                     10.06
446.080 (1)                 10.03(C)
446.080 (3)                 10.03(D)
446.080 (4)                 10.03(E)
446.090                     10.07
446.100                     10.08
446.110                     10.09
446.140                     10.01
525.125                     90.03
525.130                     90.03,
                            90.99(B)
534.040 (2)(c)              10.99
610.180                     130.01
610.200                     130.01
                            
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
ORD. NO. DATE PASSED CODE SECTION
ORD. NO.  DATE PASSED CODE SECTION
         2-1-60      T.S.O. II
         7-5-65      95.01
         6-13-66     T.S.O. I
         8-1-66      T.S.O. I
         12-2-74     130.02
         12-2-74     T.S.O. II
         3-5-81      31.20(A)
125(S)    10-5-81     110.13
20-82     7-27-82     T.S.O. I
         6-17-86     T.S.O. I
         1-12-87     T.S.O. I
         3-14-87     150.02,
                      150.04
         5-14-87     91.45
5-3-87(A) 5-30-87     Repealed
5-3-87(B) 5-30-87     T.S.O. IV
         6-17-87     T.S.O. I
         6-17-87     T.S.O. I
                      114.01-
110.3     10-10-87    114.03,
                      114.99
         12-12-87    T.S.O. I
         6-11-88     71.05
113.1     8-13-88     113.01-
                      113.05
10.19     9-10-88     Adopting Ordinance
10.20     5-13-89     Adopting Ordinance
92.07     8-12-89     130.03
         9-9-89      11.01
         10-17-89    32.21
         2-9-91      32.21
         3-19-91     T.S.O. I
         12-5-91     Chapter 50
         12-5-91     Chapter 96
92-1      1-23-92     32.21(A)
         2-11-92     Chapter 152
92-2      2-11-92     T.S.O. V
         2-24-92     T.S.O. III
         6-18-92     Adopting Ord. (S-4)
92-3      9-3-92      T.S.O. III
                     
 
ORD. NO. DATE PASSED DESCRIPTION CODE SECTION
ORD. NO. DATE PASSED DESCRIPTION                     CODE SECTION
93-6     6-17-93     Sewer system revenue bonds,     T.S.O. I
                     (1993 Series A and B)
94-1     2-3-94      Basic cable services charges    Chap. 115
94-2     3-21-94     License fee insurance co.       Chap. 113
94-4     4-12-94     Granting franchise to K.U.      T.S.O. II
-        8-4-94      Amendment to sewer ordinance    Chap. 50
94-6     12-15-94    Adoption of ethics code         Chap. 38
96-1     1-3-96      Elections                       31.20
                     Amending sanitary sewer         50.091,
96-2     1-4-96      ordinance                       50.093,
                                                     50.097
                                                     50.020,
96-3     8-6-96      Sewer use and tap fees          50.091,
                     amendment                       50.093,
                                                     50.097
96-4     8-15-96     Annual budget                   33.03
-        9-19-96     Imposing a Bank Franchise and   Ch. 116
                     Local Deposit Tax
97-2     4-3-97      Amending property maintenance   Repealed
                     code
-        5-15-97     Amending zoning code            152.01
97-2A    9-4-97      Amending BOCA code              Repealed
                                                     50.091,
-        2-19-98     Amending sewer use ordinance    50.093,
                                                     50.097,
                                                     50.098
98.1     6-21-98     Authorizing Interlocal          T.S.O. I
                     Cooperative Agreement
98.2A    8-20-98     Amending sewer use              50.020
- -      8-98        Adopting sub-division           Ch. 153
                     regulations
98.3     9-17-98     Amending ad valorem taxes       T.S.O. VI
98.4     9-17-98     Amending ad valorem taxes       35.05,
                                                     T.S.O. VI
                     Adopting the 1998 S-
98.5     11-19-98    8 Supplement to the City's Code Front
                     of Ordinances
98.6     10-1-98     Amending Zoning Map.            TSO V
99-2     1-21-99     Amending building permit fees   150.04
99-2SA   3-10-99     Amending building permit fees   150.04
                     to include inspection fees
99.3A    8-24-99     Amending sewer tap fees         50.093
99.6A    10-20-99    Amending zoning code            152.01,
                                                     TSO V
99.4     10-21-99    Amending ad valorem taxes       T.S.O. VI
99.5     10-21-99    Amending ad valorem taxes       T.S.O. VI
99.6A    12-6-99     Amending the zoning code        152.01
2000-01A 1-20-00     Amending the annual budget for  Not Included
                     FY 1999-2000
2000-02A 4-20-00     Amending sewer rates            50.094
                     Adopting the 1999 S-
2000-03  4-6-00      9 Supplement to Code of         Front
                     Ordinances
2000-04  10-10-00    Amending ad valorem taxes       T.S.O. VI
2000-05  10-10-00    Amending ad valorem taxes       T.S.O. VI
                     Adopting the 2000 S-10
2001-01  3-6-01      Supplement to Code of           Front
                     Ordinances
2001-02  5-17-01     Granting a cable franchise to   T.S.O. II
                     Century Venture Corporation
2001-03  11-1-01     Amending ad valorem taxes       T.S.O. VI
2001-04  11-1-01     Amending ad valorem taxes       T.S.O. VI
                     Adopting the 2001 S-11
2002-01  3-7-02      Supplement to Code of           Front
                     Ordinances
2002-02  9-26-02     Amending ad valorem taxes       35.05,
                                                     T.S.O. VI
2002-03  9-26-02     Amending ad valorem taxes       35.05,
                                                     T.S.O. VI
2003.01A 2-6-03      Recreation Commission           Repealed
2003-03  7-17-03     Prohibiting on-street vehicle   72.13,
                     parking                         72.99
2003-04  9-23-03     Board of Code Enforcement       Repealed
                                                     50.091,
98.1A    8-13-03     Amending sewer use ord.         50.093,
                                                     50.098
2003-05  10-7-03     Ad valorem taxes                35.05,
                                                     T.S.O. VI
2003-06  10-7-03     Special ad valorem tax          35.05,
                                                     T.S.O. VI
2003-07  12-18-03    Clerks fees and payment of      Repealed
                     taxes
                     Adopting the 2004 S-13
2004-02  6-3-04      Supplement to the Code of       Front
                     Ordinances
2004-05  10-7-04     Ad valorem taxes for 2004 tax   35.05,
                     year                            T.S.O. VI
2004-06  10-7-04     Special ad valorem tax          T.S.O. VI
2004-09  12-2-04     Enacting a personnel and pay    37.01
                     classification plan
2005.01A 4-8-05      Amending the zoning code        152.01
2005.02A 5-19-05     Amending business regulations   11.01 - 11.13, 11.99
2005.03A 6-16-05     Amending sewer use regulations  50.91, 50.93, 50.97, 50.98
2005.04  10-6-05     Ad valorem taxes for 2005 tax   35.05,
                     year                            T.S.O. VI
2005.05  10-6-05     Special ad valorem tax          35.05,
                                                     T.S.O. VI
2005.06  11-17-05    Establishing the Vacant         150.10 -
                     Property Review Commission      150.15
                     Adopting the 2005 S-15
2006.02  2-2-06      Supplement to the Code of       Front
                     Ordinances
2006.03  9-21-06     Ad valorem taxes for 2006 tax   35.05,
                     year                            T.S.O. VI
2006.04  9-21-06     Special ad valorem tax          35.05,
                                                     T.S.O. VI
2006.06  11-16-06    Culvert requirements            91.45
2007.01A 2-1-07      License fees for insurance      113.01 -
                     companies                       113.04
2007.02A 3-1-07      Sewer rates                     50.094
2007.03  9-20-07     Ad valorem taxes for 2007 tax   35.05,
                     year                            T.S.O. VI
2007.04  9-20-07     Special ad valorem tax          35.05,
                                                     T.S.O. VI
2007.05  11-15-07    Amending zoning code            152.01
2007.06  11-15-07    Rezoning certain property       T.S.O. V
                     Establishing regulations for
2008.01  1-17-08     requests for refund of          35.06
                     overpayment of taxes
2008.02  7-17-08     Rezoning certain property       T.S.O. V
2008.03  7-17-08     Amending the 2008-2009 budget   Not Included
2008.04  9-18-08     Ad valorem taxes for 2007 tax   35.05,
                     year                            T.S.O. VI
2008.05  9-18-08     Special ad valorem tax          T.S.O. VI
                                                     50.091,
2009.01  2-5-09      Amending sewer regulations      50.093,
                                                     50.097,
                                                     50.098
2009.02  9-17-09     Ad valorem taxes for 2009 tax   35.05,
                     year                            T.S.O. VI
2009.03  9-17-09     Special ad valorem tax          35.05,
                                                     T.S.O. VI
2010.01  2-4-10      Creating the position of        150.05
                     Building Inspector
2010.02  3-4-10      Amending compensation of        31.02
                     elected city officials
2010.03  10-7-10     Ad valorem taxes for 2010 tax   35.05,
                     year                            T.S.O. VI
2010-04  10-7-10     Special ad valorem tax          T.S.O. VI
2011.01A 3-5-10      Amending sewer use              50.091,
                                                     50.093
2011.02A 4-7-11      Amending the Recreation         Repealed
                     Commission
2011.03  4-7-11      Amending the 2010-2011 budget   Not Included
                     Adopting the 2011 S-20
2011.04  5-5-11      Supplement to the Code of       Front
                     Ordinances
2011.05  10-20-11    Ad valorem taxes for 2011 tax   35.05,
                     year                            T.S.O. VI
2011.06  10-20-11    Special ad valorem tax          35.05,
                                                     T.S.O. VI
2011.07  3-1-12      Amending zoning regulations     152.01
2012.01  3-1-12      Amending sewer regulation       50.097
                     billing
2012.02  9-24-12     Special ad valorem tax          35.05,
                                                     T.S.O. VI
2012.05  9-24-12     Ad valorem taxes for 2012 tax   35.05,
                     year                            T.S.O. VI
2012.07  9-24-12     Special ad valorem tax          35.05,
                                                     T.S.O. VI
2013.01  1-3-13      Amending the Kentucky Building  150.01
                     Code
                     Adopting the National           150.25 -
2013.02  1-3-13      Electrical Code                 150.43,
                                                     150.99
2013.03  2-26-13     Increasing sewer rates          50.094
2013.04  5-2-13      Amending zoning code            152.01
2013.05  5-16-13     Creating a parks and recreation 36.05
                     board
2013.06  6-6-13      Amending the 2012-2013 budget   Not Included
2013.07  9-5-13      Water meter required for each   50.099
                     sewer user
2013.08  9-24-13     Ad valorem taxes for 2013 tax   35.05,
                     year                            T.S.O. VI
2013.09  9-19-13     Special ad valorem tax          35.05,
                                                     T.S.O. VI
2013.10  11-21-13    Granting franchise to K.U.      T.S.O. II
2014.01  6-5-14      Public nuisances                Repealed
2014.02  9-4-14      Interlocal agreement            T.S.O. I
                                                     35.05,
2014.03  9-18-14     Special ad valorem tax          35.06,
                                                     T.S.O. VI
2014.04  9-18-14     Special ad valorem tax          T.S.O. VI
2015.01  5-12-15     Speed limit                     71.05
                                                     50.091,
2015.02  8-6-15      Sewer use                       50.093,
                                                     50.097,
                                                     50.098
                                                     35.05,
2015.03  9-3-15      Special ad valorem tax          35.06,
                                                     T.S.O. VI
2015.04  9-3-15      Special ad valorem tax          T.S.O. VI
2016.01  6-2-16      Taxation payments               35.02,
                                                     35.03
2016.02  6-21-16     Annual budget                   Not Included
                                                     50.091,
2016.03  8-4-16      Sewer fees and billing          50.093,
                                                     50.097,
                                                     50.098
2016.04  8-23-16     Council meetings                32.21
2016.05  9-20-16     Ad valorem taxes                T.S.O. VI
2016.06  9-21-16     Ad valorem taxes                T.S.O. VI
2017.01  3-16-17     Ad valorem taxes                T.S.O. VI
2017.02  6-30-17     Budget                          Not Included
2017.03  9-14-17     Discharging firearms            130.02
2017.04  9-26-17     Ad valorem taxes                T.S.O. VI
2017.05  9-26-17     Ad valorem taxes                T.S.O. VI
2017.07  10-2-17     Ad valorem taxes                T.S.O. VI
2018.02  6-30-18     Budget                          Not Included
2018.03  9-25-18     Ad valorem taxes                T.S.O. VI
2018.04  9-25-18     Ad valorem taxes                T.S.O. VI
2019-1   2-21-19     Amending zoning code            152.01
2019-02  - -         Annual budget                   Not Included
2019.03  8-15-19     Amending sewer rates            50.094
2019.04  9-19-19     Ad valorem taxes                T.S.O. VI
2019.05  9-19-19     Ad valorem taxes                T.S.O. VI
2020.01  4-16-20     Adopting 2019 S-26 Supplement   Front
                     to Code of Ordinances
2020.02  7-20-20     Adopting 2020-2021 budget       Not Included
                                                     151.01  -
                                                     151.03 ,
                                                     151.10  -
                                                     151.12 ,
2020.03  8-21-20     Creating Property Maintenance   151.20  -
                     Code                            151.28 ,
                                                     151.40  -
                                                     151.50 ,
                                                     151.60  -
                                                     151.65
2020.04  9-17-20     Ad valorem taxes                T.S.O. VI
2020.05  9-17-20     Ad valorem taxes                T.S.O. VI
2020-06  1-21-21     Setting Mayor/City Council      31.02
                     compensation
2021.01  6-28-21     Adopting 2021-2022 budget       Not Included
2021.02  7-16-21     Amending 2020-2021 budget       Not Included
2021.05  9-16-21     Ad valorem taxes                T.S.O. VI
2021.06  9-16-21     Ad valorem taxes                T.S.O. VI
2022-1   2-17-22     Change one-way street to two-   Not Included
                     way street
2022-02  5-9-22      Setting Mayor/City Council      31.02
                     compensation
                                                   
 
 
