CITY OF CRESTVIEW HILLS, KENTUCKY
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2025 S-30 Supplement contains:
Local legislation current through Ord. 2024-12-02, passed 12-17- 24; and
State legislation current through 2024
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street, Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-800-445-5588  www.amlegal.com
CITY OFFICIALS
MAYOR                        Paul W. Meier
CITY ADMINISTRATOR           T. Alex Mattingly
FINANCE OFFICER/TREASURER    T.J. Holtman
CITY CLERK                   Stacy Kellam
CITY ATTORNEY                Mary Ann Stewart
CHIEF OF POLICE              Brad Degenhardt
FINANCE/ADMINISTRATIVE CLERK Mary Bach
                             
COUNCIL
COUNCILMEMBER                Larry Ruehl
COUNCILMEMBER                William Dorsey
COUNCILMEMBER                David Kramer
COUNCILMEMBER                Ed Wise
COUNCILMEMBER                Tim McKinley
COUNCILMEMBER                Mark Lehman
 
Address:
50 Town Center Boulevard
Crestview Hills, KY 41017
ADOPTING ORDINANCES
ORDINANCE NO. 1984-9-2
   SUMMARY PUBLICATION
      AN ORDINANCE ENACTING A CODE OF ORDINANCES FOR THE CITY OF CRESTVIEW
HILLS, KENTUCKY.
   WHEREAS, the City Council of the City of Crestview Hills, Kentucky, has
codified and revised its ordinances into a Code of Ordinances, and
   WHEREAS, the City Council desires publication of its Code of Ordinances
pursuant to KRS 83 A.060(9).
   The following Certification is made pursuant to said statute by the
undersigned city attorney. The Code of Ordinances is available for review at
the City Building during normal working hours of the City Clerk.
   The Contents of the Code of Ordinances are as follows:
      Title I.      General Provisions
      Title III.   Administration
      Title V.   Public Works
      Title VII.   Traffic Code
      Title IX.   General Regulations
      Title XI.   Business Regulations
      Title XIII.   General Offenses
      Title XV.   Land Usage
                     So Certified:
                      R. Barry Wehrman
                      City Attorney
   SECTION I.
   All Ordinances, or parts of Ordinances, in conflict herewith are to that
extent only hereby repealed.
   SECTION II.
   This Ordinance shall take effect and be in full force from and after its
passage, approval and publication according to law.
            CITY OF CRESTVIEW HILLS, KENTUCKY,
            A Municipal Corporation of the Fifth Class
            By  Alan A. Herold
                Mayor
ADOPTED: October 11, 1984
ATTEST:
Virginia Hall
CITY CLERK
FIRST READING: 9-13-84      SECOND READING: 10-11-84
AYES: 6      NAYES: 0      AYES: 6      NAYES: 0
ORDINANCE NO. 1989-8-2
   AN ORDINANCE ENACTING A CODE OF ORDINANCES FOR THE CITY OF CRESTVIEW HILLS,
KENTUCKY.
   WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati, Ohio has
completed the 1989 Supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the City of
Crestview Hills, which supplement contains all ordinances of a general nature
enacted since the prior supplement to the Code of Ordinances of this
municipality; and
   WHEREAS, said American Legal Publishing Corporation has recommended the
revision or addition of certain sections of the Code of Ordinances which are
based on or make references to sections of the Kentucky Code; and
   WHEREAS, it is the intent of Council to accept these updated sections in
accordance with the changes of the law of the State of Kentucky;
   NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the City Council of the City of Crestview
Hills, State of Kentucky:
   SECTION 1. That the 1989 Supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the City of
Crestview Hills, Kentucky as submitted by the American Legal Publishing
Corporation of Cincinnati, and as attached hereto, be and the same is hereby
adopted by reference as if set out in its entirety.
   SECTION 2. That this ordinance shall take effect and be in force from and
after its date of passage.
Passed this 14th day of September, 1989.
         CITY OF CRESTVIEW HILLS, KY, A Municipal Corporation of the Fifth
Class
               By: Harold A. Ries /s/
                   Mayor
ATTEST:
Lynne Moore /s/
City Clerk
FIRST READING 8/10/89         SECOND READING 9/14/89
DATE PUBLISHED 11-1-89      AYES: -5-      NAYES: -0-
ORDINANCE NO. 1990-7-4
   AN ORDINANCE ENACTING A CODE OF ORDINANCES FOR THE CITY OF CRESTVIEW HILLS,
KENTUCKY.
   WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati, Ohio has
completed the 1990 Supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the City of
Crestview Hills, which supplement contains all ordinances of a general nature
enacted since the prior supplement to the Code of Ordinances of this
municipality; and
   WHEREAS, said American Legal Publishing Corporation has recommended the
revision or addition of certain sections of the Code of Ordinances which are
based on or make references to sections of the Kentucky Code; and
   WHEREAS, it is the intent of Council to accept these updated sections in
accordance with the changes of the law of the State of Kentucky;
   NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the City Council of the City of Crestview
Hills, State of Kentucky:
   SECTION 1. That the 1990 Supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the City of
Crestview Hills, Kentucky as submitted by the American Legal Publishing
Corporation of Cincinnati, and as attached hereto, be and the same is hereby
adopted by reference as if set out in its entirety.
   SECTION 2. That this ordinance shall take effect and be in force from and
after its date of passage.
Passed this 9th day of August, 1990.
            CITY OF CRESTVIEW HILLS, KY, A Municipal Corporation of the Fifth
Class
               By: Harold A. Ries /s/
                   Mayor
ATTEST:
Lynne Moore /s/
City Clerk
FIRST READING 7/12/90         SECOND READING 8/9/90
DATE PUBLISHED             AYES: -6-      NAYES: -0-
ORDINANCE NO. 1991-10-1
   AN ORDINANCE ENACTING A CODE OF ORDINANCES FOR THE CITY OF CRESTVIEW HILLS,
KENTUCKY.
   WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati, Ohio has
completed the 1991 Supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the City of
Crestview Hills, which supplement contains all ordinances of a general nature
enacted since the prior supplement to the Code of Ordinances of this
municipality; and
   WHEREAS, said American Legal Publishing Corporation has recommended the
revision or addition of certain sections of the Code of Ordinances which are
based on or make references to sections of the Kentucky Code; and
   WHEREAS, it is the intent of Council to accept these updated sections in
accordance with the changes of the law of the State of Kentucky;
   NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the City Council of the City of Crestview
Hills, State of Kentucky:
   SECTION 1. That the 1991 Supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the City of
Crestview Hills, Kentucky as submitted by the American Legal Publishing
Corporation of Cincinnati, and as attached hereto, be and the same is hereby
adopted by reference as if set out in its entirety.
   SECTION 2. That this ordinance shall take effect and be in force from and
after its date of passage.
Passed this 11th day of November, 1991.
            CITY OF CRESTVIEW HILLS, KY, A Municipal Corporation of the Fifth
Class
            By: Harold A. Ries /s/
                Mayor
ATTEST:
Lynne Moore /s/
City Clerk
FIRST READING 10/10/91         SECOND READING 11/11/91
DATE PUBLISHED 11/21/91       AYES: -5-      NAYES: -0-
ORDINANCE NO. 1992-8-1
   AN ORDINANCE ENACTING A CODE OF ORDINANCES FOR THE CITY OF CRESTVIEW HILLS,
KENTUCKY.
   WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati, Ohio has
completed the 1992 Supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the City of
Crestview Hills, which supplement contains all ordinances of a general nature
enacted since the prior supplement to the Code of Ordinances of this
municipality; and
   WHEREAS, said American Legal Publishing Corporation has recommended the
revision or addition of certain sections of the Code of Ordinances which are
based on or make references to sections of the Kentucky Code; and
   WHEREAS, it is the intent of Council to accept these updated sections in
accordance with the changes of the law of the State of Kentucky;
   NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the City Council of the City of Crestview
Hills, State of Kentucky:
   SECTION 1. That the 1992 Supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the City of
Crestview Hills, Kentucky as submitted by the American Legal Publishing
Corporation of Cincinnati, and as attached hereto, be and the same is hereby
adopted by reference as if set out in its entirety.
   SECTION 2. That this ordinance shall take effect and be in force from and
after its date of passage.
Passed this 10th day of September, 1992.
               CITY OF CRESTVIEW HILLS, KY, A Municipal Corporation of the
Fifth Class
               By: Harold A. Ries /s/
                   Mayor
ATTEST:
Lynne Moore /s/
City Clerk
FIRST READING 8/13/92         SECOND READING 9/10/92
DATE PUBLISHED            AYES: -6-      NAYES: -0-
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
      Chapter
         
10.   RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
         
11.   ORDINANCES REPEALED AND SAVED
CHAPTER 10: RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
Section
   
10.01   Short titles
   
10.02   Definitions
   
10.03   Rules of construction
   
10.04   Computation of time
   
10.05   Majority may act for all; authorized agent
   
10.06   Writings and signatures
   
10.07   Severability
   
10.08   Revivor
   
10.09   Rights and liabilities accruing before repeal of ordinance
   
10.10   Construction of section references
   
10.11   Ordinances repealed
   
10.12   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.13   Ordinances saved
   
10.14   Amendments to code; amendatory language
   
10.15   Conflicting provisions
   
10.16   Reference to offices
   
10.17   Errors and omissions
 
   
10.99   Penalty
§ 10.01 SHORT TITLES
   (A)   All ordinances of a permanent and general nature of the city as
revised, codified, rearranged, renumbered, and consolidated into component
codes, titles, chapters, and sections shall be known and designated as the
Crestview Hills Code, for which designation "codified ordinances" or "code" may
be substituted. Code, title, chapter, and section headings do not constitute
any part of the law as contained in the code.
(KRS 446.140)
   (B)   All references to codes, titles, chapters, and sections are to such
components of the code unless otherwise specified. Any component code may be
referred to and cited by its name, such as the "traffic code." Sections may be
referred to and cited by the designation "§" followed by the number, such as "§
10.01." Headings and captions used in this code other than the title, chapter,
and section numbers, are employed for reference purposes only and shall not be
deemed a part of the text of any section.
§ 10.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this code the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   “ACTION.” Includes all proceedings in any court of this state. (KRS 446.010
(1))
   “AND.” May be read “OR,” and “OR” may be read “AND,” if the sense requires
it.
   “ANIMAL.” Includes every warm-blooded living creature except a human being.
(KRS 446.010 (2))
   “AVIS.” The automated vehicle information system established and maintained
by the Transportation Cabinet to collect titling and registration information
on vehicles and boats and information on holders of motor vehicle operator’s
licenses and personal identification cards. (KRS 446.010 (55))
   “CITY,” “MUNICIPAL CORPORATION,” or “MUNICIPALITY.” When used in this code
shall denote the City of Crestview Hills irrespective of its population or
legal classification.
   “CODE OF ORDINANCES.” A reenactment of the body of positive municipal law,
read and interpreted as a whole, with the text arranged by subject matter and
properly indexed.
   “COMPANY.” May extend and be applied to any corporation, company, person,
partnership, joint stock company, or association. (KRS 446.010 (9))
   “COMPOSITE INDEX.” A loose-leaf compilation of all ordinances listed by date
of passage, arranged by subject matter of the contents and indexed
alphabetically.
   “CORPORATION.” May extend and be applied to any corporation, company,
partnership, joint stock company, or association. (KRS 446.010 (10))
   “COUNCIL.” The city legislative body. (KRS 83A.010 (5))
   “COUNTY.” Kenton County, Kentucky.
   “CRUELTY.” As applied to animals, includes every act or omission whereby
unjustifiable physical pain, suffering, or death is caused or permitted. (KRS
446.010 (12))
   “DIRECTORS.” When applied to corporations, includes managers or trustees.
(KRS 446.010 (14))
   “DOMESTIC.” When applied to a corporation, partnership, business trust, or
limited liability company, means all those incorporated or formed by authority
of this state. (KRS 446.010 (15))
   “DOMESTIC ANIMAL.” Any animal converted to domestic habitat. (KRS 445.010
(15))
   “EXECUTIVE AUTHORITY.” The Mayor. (KRS 83A.010 (6))
   “EXECUTIVE ORDER.” An order issued by the mayor which is binding upon the
officers and employees of the city and any governmental agency over which the
city has jurisdiction. (KRS 83A.010 (7))
   “FEDERAL.” Refers to the United States. (KRS 446.010 (17))
   “FOREIGN.” When applied to a corporation, partnership, limited partnership,
business trust, statutory trust, or limited liability company, includes all
those incorporated or formed by authority of any other state. (KRS 446.010
(18))
   “KEEPER” or “PROPRIETOR.” Includes all persons, whether acting by themselves
or as a servant, agent, or employee.
   “KRS.” Kentucky Revised Statutes.
   “LAND” or “REAL ESTATE.” Includes lands, tenements, and hereditaments and
all rights thereto and interest therein, other than a chattel interest. (KRS
446.010 (23))
   “LEGISLATIVE BODY.” The City Council. (KRS 91A.010 (8))
   “LEGISLATIVE BODY MEMBER.” A City Councilman. (KRS 83A.010 (8))
   “LIVESTOCK.” Cattle, sheep, swine, goats, horses, alpacas, llamas,
buffaloes, or any other animals of the bovine, ovine, porcine, caprine, equine,
or camelid species. (KRS 446.010 (25))
   “MAY.” The act referred to is permissive. (KRS 446.010 (26))
   “MISDEMEANOR.” An offense for which the criminal fine can not exceed the
amount set forth in KRS 534.040 (2) (a), or a term of imprisonment not to
exceed the periods set forth in KRS 532.090 (1) or both. (KRS 83A.065)
   “MONTH.” A calendar month. (KRS 446.010 (27))
   “MUNICIPALITY.” The City of Crestview Hills, Kentucky.
   “MUNICIPAL ORDER.” An official act of the City Council which is binding upon
the offers and employees of the city and any governmental agency over which the
municipality has jurisdiction. (KRS 83A.010 (9))
   “OATH.” Includes “AFFIRMATION” in all cases in which an affirmation may be
substituted for an oath. (KRS 446.010 (28))
   “OFFICER.” Any person elected to a position by the voters or any person
appointed to a position which:
      (a)   Is created by the Constitution, the General Assembly, or a city;
      (b)   Possesses a delegation of a portion of the sovereign power of
Government;
      (c)   Has powers and duties to be discharged which are conferred directly
or by implication by the city;
      (d)   Has duties performed independently and without control of a
superior power other than the law;
      (e)   Has some permanency;
      (f)   Requires an official oath;
      (g)   Is assigned by a commission or other written authority; and
      (h)   Provides for an official bond if required by proper authority. (KRS
83A.010 (10))
   “ORDINANCE.” An official act of the City Council, which is a regulation of a
general and permanent nature and enforceable as a local law or is an
appropriation of money. (KRS 83A010 (11))
   “PARTNERSHIP.” Includes both general and limited partnerships. (KRS 446.010
(30))
   “PEACE OFFICER.” Includes sheriffs, constables granted police powers,
coroners, jails, metropolitan or urban-county government correctional officer,
marshals, policemen, and other persons with similar authority to make arrests.
(KRS 446.010 (31))
   “PERSON.” May extend and be applied to bodies-politic and corporate,
societies, communities, the public generally, individuals, partnerships, joint
stock companies, and limited liability companies. (KRS 446.010 (33))
   “PERSONAL PROPERTY.” Includes all property except real.
   “PREMISES.” As applied to property, includes land and buildings.
   “PROPERTY.” Includes real, personal, mixed estates and interests.
   “PUBLIC AUTHORITY.” Includes boards of education; the municipal, county,
state, or federal government, its officers or an agency thereof; or any duly
authorized public official.
   “PUBLIC PLACE.” Includes any street, sidewalk, park, cemetery, school yard,
body of water or watercourse, public conveyance, or any other place for the
sale of merchandise, public accommodation, or amusement.
   “REAL PROPERTY.” Includes lands, tenements, and hereditaments.
   “REGULAR ELECTION.” The election in even numbered years at which members of
Congress are elected and the election in odd numbered years at which state
officers are elected. (KRS 446.010 (37))
   “RESOLUTION.” An expression of the opinion, will or policy of the City
Council on some matter of ministerial business which has come before the body.
A resolution is a less formal mechanism for dealing with matters of a special
or temporary character. While an ordinance, and to a large extent a municipal
order, involves a distinctly legislative act.
   “SHALL.” The act referred to is mandatory. (KRS 446.010 (39))
   “SIDEWALK.” That portion of the street between the curb line and the
adjacent property fine intended for the use of pedestrians.
   “STATE.” The Commonwealth of Kentucky.
   “STREET.” Includes alleys, avenues, boulevards, lanes, roads, highways,
viaducts, and all other public thoroughfares within the city.
   “SUBCHAPTER.” A division of a chapter, designated in this code by a heading
in the chapter analysis and a capitalized heading in the body of the chapter,
setting apart a group of sections related by the subject matter of the heading.
Not all chapters have subchapters.
   “SUMMARY.” A brief narrative prepared under the supervision of an attorney
succinctly covering the main points of an official statement, ordinance, or
rule in a way reasonably calculated to inform the public in a clear and
understandable manner as to its meaning. (KRS 83A.010)
   “SWORN.” Includes “AFFIRMED” in all cases in which an affirmation may be
substituted for an oath. (KRS 446.010 (43))
   “TENANT” or “OCCUPANT.” As applied to premises, includes any person holding
a written or oral lease, or who actually occupies the whole or any part of such
premises, alone or with others.
   “VACANCY IN OFFICE.” Such as exists when there is an unexpired part of a
term of office without a lawful incumbent therein, or when the person elected
or appointed to an office fails to qualify according to law, or when there has
been no election to fill the office at the time appointed by law; it applies
whether the vacancy is occasioned by death, resignation, removal from the
state, county, city, or district, or otherwise. (KRS 446.010 (46))
   “VIOLATE.” Includes failure to comply with. (KRS 446.010 (47))
   “VIOLATION.” An offense for which the criminal fine can not exceed the
amount set forth in KRS 535.040 (2) (c). (KRS 83A.065)
   “YEAR.” Calendar year. (KRS 446.010 (49))
§ 10.03 RULES OF CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   Singular includes plural. A word importing the singular number only
may extend and be applied to several persons or things, as well as to one
person or thing, and a word importing the plural number only may extend and be
applied to one person or thing as well as to several persons or things.
(KRS 446.020 (1))
   (B)   Masculine includes feminine. A word importing the masculine gender
only may extend and be applied to females as well as males.
(KRS 446.020 (2))
   (C)   Liberal construction. All sections of this code shall be liberally
construed with a view to promote their objects and carry out the intent of
Council.
(KRS 446.080 (1))
   (D)   Retroactivity. No ordinance shall be construed to be retroactive,
unless expressly so declared.
(KRS 446.080 (3))
   (E)   Technical terms. All words and phrases shall be construed according to
the common and approved usage of language, but technical words and phrases and
such others as may have acquired a peculiar and appropriate meaning in the law,
shall be construed according to such meaning.
(KRS 446.080 (4))
§ 10.04 COMPUTATION OF TIME.
   (A)   In computing any period of time prescribed or allowed by order of
court, or by any applicable ordinance or regulation, the day of the act, event,
or default after which the designated period of time begins to run is not to be
included. The last day of the period so computed is to be included, unless it
is a Saturday, a Sunday, a legal holiday, or a day on which the public office
in which a document is required to be filed is actually and legally closed, in
which event the period runs until the end of the next day which is not one of
the days just mentioned. When the period of time prescribed or allowed is less
than seven days, intermediate Saturdays, Sundays, and legal holidays shall be
excluded in the computation.
   (B)   When an ordinance, regulation, or order of court requires an act to be
done either a certain time before an event or a certain time before the day on
which an event occurs, the day of the event shall be excluded in computing the
time. If the day thereby computed on which or by which the act is required to
be done falls on a Saturday, Sunday, legal holiday, or a day on which the
public office in which the act if required to be completed is actually and
legally closed, the act may be done on the next day which is none of the days
just mentioned.
   (C)    If any proceeding is directed by law to take place, or any act is
directed to be done, on a particular day of a month and that day is Sunday, the
proceeding shall take place, or the act shall be done, on the next day that is
not a legal holiday.
(KRS 446.030)
   (D)   In all cases where the law requires any act to be done in a reasonable
time or reasonable notice to be given, such reasonable time or notice shall
mean the time only as may be necessary for the prompt performance of such duty
or compliance with such notice.
§ 10.05 MAJORITY MAY ACT FOR ALL; AUTHORIZED AGENT.
   (A)   Words giving authority to three or more public officers or other
persons shall be construed as giving such authority to a majority of such
officers or other persons.
(KRS 446.050)
   (B)   When the law requires an act to be done which may by law as well be
done by an agent as by the principal, such requirement shall be construed to
include such acts when done by an authorized agent.
§ 10.06 WRITINGS AND SIGNATURES.
   (A)   When this code requires any writing to be signed by a party thereto,
it shall not be deemed to be signed unless the signature is subscribed at the
end or close of the writing.
   (B)   Every writing contemplated by this code shall be in the English
language.
(KRS 446.060)
§ 10.07 SEVERABILITY.
   It shall be considered that it is the intent of Council in enacting any
ordinance, that if any part of the ordinance be held unconstitutional the
remaining parts shall remain in force, unless the ordinance provides otherwise,
or unless the remaining parts are so essentially and inseparably connected with
and dependent upon the unconstitutional part that it is apparent that Council
would not have enacted the remaining parts without the unconstitutional part,
or unless the remaining parts, standing alone, are incomplete and incapable of
being executed in accordance with the intent of Council.
(KRS 446.090)
§ 10.08 REVIVOR.
   (A)   A repealed ordinance without a delayed effective date is revived when
the ordinance that repealed it is repealed by another ordinance enacted at the
same meeting of Council.
   (B)   A repealed ordinance with a delayed effective date is revived by the
enactment of a repealer of the ordinance that repealed it at the same or any
subsequent meeting of Council as long as it takes effect prior to the effective
date of the original repealer.
   (C)   An amended ordinance without a delayed effective date remains
unchanged with respect to an amendment which is repealed at the same meeting of
Council which enacted the amendment.
   (D)   An amended ordinance with a delayed effective date remains unchanged
with respect to that amendment if the ordinance making the amendment is
repealed at the same or at a subsequent meeting of Council as long as the
repealing ordinance takes effect prior to the effective date of the original
amendment.
   (E)   No other action of Council repealing a repealer or an amendment shall
have the effect of reviving the original language of the repealer or amendment
as the case may be.
(KRS 446.100)
§ 10.09 RIGHTS AND LIABILITIES ACCRUING BEFORE REPEAL OF ORDINANCE.
   No new ordinance shall be construed to repeal a former ordinance as to any
offense committed against a former ordinance, nor as to any act done, or
penalty, forfeiture, or punishment incurred, or any right accrued or claim
arising under the former ordinance, or in any way whatever to affect any such
offense or act so committed or done, or any penalty, forfeiture, or punishment
so incurred, or any right accrued or claim arising before the new ordinance
takes effect, except that the proceedings thereafter had shall conform, so far
as practicable, to the laws in force at the time of such proceedings. If any
penalty, forfeiture, or punishment is mitigated by any provision of the new
ordinance, such provision may, by the consent of the party affected, be applied
to any judgment pronounced after the new ordinance takes effect.
(KRS 446.110)
§ 10.10 CONSTRUCTION OF SECTION REFERENCES.
   (A)   Wherever in a penalty section reference is made to a violation of a
section or an inclusive group of sections, such reference shall be construed to
mean a violation of any provision of the section or sections included in the
reference.
   (B)   References in the code to action taken or authorized under designated
sections of the code include, in every case, action taken or authorized under
the applicable legislative provision which is superseded by this code.
   (C)   Whenever in one section reference is made to another section hereof,
the reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified, or renumbered, unless the subject matter be
changed or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
§ 10.11 ORDINANCES REPEALED.
   This code, from and after its effective date, shall contain all of the
provisions of a general nature pertaining to the subjects herein enumerated and
embraced. All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated by this code
shall be deemed repealed from an after the effective date of this code of
ordinances.
§ 10.12 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature and all other ordinances
pertaining to subjects not enumerated and embraced in this code of ordinances,
shall remain in full force and effect unless herein repealed expressly or by
necessary implication.
§ 10.13 ORDINANCES SAVED.
   Whenever an ordinance by its nature either authorizes or enables the
Council, or a certain city officer or employee, to make additional ordinances
or regulations for the purpose effected prior to the codification and not
inconsistent thereto, shall remain in effect and are saved.
§ 10.14 AMENDMENTS TO CODE; AMENDATORY LANGUAGE.
   (A)   Any chapter, section, or division amended or added to this code by
ordinances passed subsequent to this code may be numbered in accordance with
the numbering system of this code an printed for inclusion herein. Any chapter,
section, or division repealed by subsequent ordinances may be excluded from
this code by omission from reprinted pages. Subsequent ordinances as printed or
omitted shall be prima facie evidence of such subsequent ordinances until
Council shall adopt a new code of ordinances.
   (B)   The following language should be used by the city to amend, add, or
repeal a chapter, section, or division:
      (1)   Section amended:
         "Section ________ of the Crestview Hills Code of Ordinances is amended
to read as follows: . . ."
      (2)   Section added:
         "Section _______, which reads as follows, is added to and amends the
Crestview Hills Code of Ordinances: . . ."
      (3)   Section repealed:
         "Section ________ of the Crestview Hills Code of Ordinances, which
reads as follows, is repealed: . . ."
_________________
Cross-reference:
   Form of amendment, see §
32.04
§ 10.15 CONFLICTING PROVISIONS.
   If the provisions of different codes, chapters, or sections of the codified
ordinances conflict with or contravene each other, the provisions bearing the
latest passage date, the conflict shall be so construed as to be consistent
with the meaning or legal effect of the questions of the subject matter taken
as a whole.
§ 10.16 REFERENCE TO OFFICES.
   Reference to a public office or officer shall be deemed to apply to any
office, officer, or employee of the city exercising the powers, duties, or
functions contemplated in the provision, irrespective of any transfer of
functions or change in the official title of the functionary.
§ 10.17 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error be discovered consisting of the misspelling of any word
or words, the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention
of the provisions affected, the use of a word or words to which no meaning can
be attached, or the use of a word or words when another word or words was
clearly intended to express the intention, the spelling shall be corrected, and
the word or words supplied, omitted, or substituted as will conform with the
manifest intention, and the provision shall have the same effect as though the
correct words were contained in the text as originally published. No alteration
shall be made or permitted if any question exists regarding the nature or
extent of such error.
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   Where an act or omission is prohibited or declared unlawful in this code of
ordinances, and no penalty is otherwise provided, the offense shall be deemed a
violation and the offender shall be fined not more than $250 for each offense.
_____________________
Statutory reference:
   Fine amount for ordinance violations authorized by state law, see KRS
83A.065 and 534.040
CHAPTER 11: ORDINANCES REPEALED AND SAVED
Section
   
11.01   Ordinances specifically repealed
   
11.02   Ordinances specifically saved
§ 11.01 ORDINANCES SPECIFICALLY REPEALED.
   The following ordinances heretofore adopted are repealed:
   NUMBER               SUBJECT
§ 11.02 ORDINANCES SPECIFICALLY SAVED.
   None of the provisions of this code of ordinances shall be deemed in any
manner to constitute a repeal of the following ordinances heretofore adopted,
or to affect their enforceability:
   NUMBER               SUBJECT
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
      Chapter
         
30.   CITY OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES
         
31.   MAYOR-COUNCIL PLAN
         
32.   PASSAGE OF ORDINANCES
         
33.   FINANCE AND REVENUE
         
34.   DEPARTMENTS, BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS
         
35.   CODE OF ETHICS
         
36.   PUBLIC RECORDS
         
37.   PUBLIC MEETINGS
         
38.   PERSONNEL POLICIES
CHAPTER 30: CITY OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES
General Provisions
Section
   
30.01   Oath of office
   
30.02   Bond
Elected Officers
   
30.10   Election procedure
   
30.11   Removal for misconduct, inability, or neglect
   
30.12   Abolition of office
   
30.13   Creation of elected offices prohibited
   
30.14   Mayor
   
30.15   Vice-Mayor
   
30.16   Council Members
Nonelected Officers
   
30.20   Creation of offices
   
30.21   Appointment and removal
   
30.22   City Administrative Officer
   
30.23   City Clerk
   
30.24   Duties of the City Clerk
   
30.25   Code Enforcement Officer
   
30.26   Zoning Administrator
   
30.27   Distilled Spirits and Malt Beverage Administrator
Compensation of Officers and Employees
   
30.30   Elected officers
   
30.31   (Reserved)
   
30.32   City employees and nonelected officers
   
30.33   Fees and commissions
   
30.34   Equating of compensation rate of Mayor and Council Members with
purchasing power of the dollar
_______________
Cross-reference:
   Personnel Policies adopted by reference, see §
38.01
§ 30.01 OATH OF OFFICE
   (A)   Oath. Each officer of the city shall, before entering upon the
discharge of duties of his office, take the following oath: "I do solemnly
swear (or affirm, as the case may be) that I will support the Constitution of
the United States and the Constitution of this Commonwealth, and be faithful
and true to the Commonwealth of Kentucky so long as I continue a citizen
thereof, and that I will faithfully execute, to the best of my ability, the
office of ______________ according to law; and I do further solemnly swear (or
affirm) that, since the adoption of the present Constitution, I, being a
citizen of this State, have not fought a duel with deadly weapons within this
state, nor out of it, nor have I sent or accepted a challenge to fight a duel
with deadly weapons, nor have I acted as a second in carrying a challenge, nor
aided or assisted any person thus offending, so help me God", as established by
Section 228 of the Kentucky Constitution.
   (B)   Certification of oath. Certification of the person administering the
oath of office to an elected official shall certify in writing that the oath
was administered and the date of its administration. Said certification shall
be filed in accordance with KRS 62.020.
§ 30.02 BOND.
   (A)   All officers, officials and employees of cities, counties, urban-
county governments, charter county governments and special districts who handle
public funds in the execution of their duties shall give a good and sufficient
bond to the local governing body for the faithful and honest performance of his
or her duties and as security for all money coming into that person's hands or
under that person's control. The bond amount shall be based upon the maximum
amount of public funds the officer, official or employee handles at any given
time during a fiscal year cycle. The local governing body shall pay the cost of
the bond.
   (B)   Elected officials who post bond as required by statute, and employees
of their offices covered by a blanket or umbrella bond, shall be deemed to have
complied with subsection (A) of this section.
ELECTED OFFICERS
§ 30.10 ELECTION PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Pursuant to the authority granted to the city by KRS 83A.050(1), the
City Council does hereby prescribe that the election of city officers shall be
under nonpartisan city election laws as provided in KRS 83A.045, 83A.170,
83A.175 and 83A.047, or as otherwise hereinafter required by law. The city
reconfirms, reiterates, and re-adopts the nonpartisan method authorized by KRS
Chapter 83A for the election of city officers.
   (B)   Pursuant to the authority granted to the city by KRS 83A.045(2)(b),
the city forgoes conducting a nonpartisan primary election for the nomination
of candidates to city office, regardless of the number of candidates running
for each office. All candidates shall file their nomination papers with the
Kenton County Clerk not later than the second Tuesday in August before the day
fixed by KRS Chapter 118 for holding a regular election for the office, or as
otherwise hereinafter required by law.
   (C)   The city shall pay the costs of city elections only if city elections
are held at a time other than prescribed by KRS Chapters 116 to 121.
(KRS 83A.050) (Am. Ord. 2017-10-1, passed 11-9-17)
§ 30.11 REMOVAL FOR MISCONDUCT, INABILITY, OR NEGLECT.
   (A)   Any elected officer, in case of misconduct, inability, or willful
neglect in the performance of the duties of his office, may be removed from
office by a unanimous vote of the members of Council exclusive of any member to
be removed, who shall not vote in the deliberation of his removal.
   (B)   No elected officer shall be removed without having been given the
right to a full public hearing. The officer, if removed, shall have the right
to appeal to the circuit court of the county and the appeal shall be on the
record. No officer so removed shall be eligible to fill the office vacated
before the expiration of the term to which originally elected.
(KRS 83A.040 (6))
§ 30.12 ABOLITION OF OFFICE.
   (A)   Each appointed and elected city office existing on July 15, 1980,
shall continue until abolished by ordinance, except that the office of Mayor
and Councilmen may not be abolished.
   (B)   No abolition of any elected office shall take effect until expiration
of the term of the current holder of the office.
   (C)   No ordinance abolishing any elected office shall be enacted later than
two hundred forty (240) days preceding the regular election for that office,
except in the event of a vacancy in the office.
(KRS 83A.080 (4))
§ 30.13 CREATION OF ELECTED OFFICES PROHIBITED.
   The city may not create any elected office. Existing elected offices may be
continued under provision of §
30.12, but not existing elected office may be changed.
(KRS 83A.080 (5))
§ 30.14 MAYOR.
   (A)   Election; term of office. The Mayor shall be elected by the voters of
the city at a regular election. His term of office shall begin on the first day
of January following his election and shall be for four (4) years and until his
successor qualifies.
   (B)   Qualification. The Mayor shall be at least twenty-five (25) years of
age, shall be a qualified voter in the city, and shall reside in the city
throughout his term of office.
   (C)   Vacancy. If a vacancy occurs in the office of Mayor, Council shall
fill the vacancy within 30 days. If for any reason, any vacancy in the office
of Mayor is not filled within 30 days after it occurs, the Governor shall
promptly fill the vacancy by appointment of a qualified person who shall serve
for the same period as if otherwise appointed.
      (1)   When voting to fill a vacancy in the office of Mayor, a member of
the City Council shall not vote for himself.
(KRS 83A.040 (2) (c))
      (2)   When voting to fill a vacancy created by the resignation of the
Mayor, the resigning Mayor shall not vote on his or her successor.
(KRS 83A.040 (3))
      (3)   No vacancy by reason of a voluntary resignation in the office of
Mayor shall occur unless a written resignation which specifies the resignation
date is tendered to the City Council. The resignation may be submitted through
electronic mail if it originates from the Mayor’s electronic mail address and
includes also the Mayor’s handwritten signature. The resignation shall be
effective at the next regular or special meeting of the City Council occurring
on or after the date specified in the written letter of resignation. If a
resignation date is not specified, the written resignation shall be deemed to
become effective at the first regular or special meeting of the City Council
occurring on or after its receipt.
(KRS 83A.040 (7))
      (4)   If a vacancy occurs in the office of Mayor which is required by law
to be filled temporarily by appointment, the City Council shall immediately
notify in writing both the County Clerk and the Secretary of State of the
vacancy. (KRS 83A.040 (8))
      (5)   The City Council shall elect from among its members an individual
to preside over meetings of the City Council during any vacancy in the office
of the Mayor in accordance with the provisions of KRS 83A.130 to KRS 83.150.
(KRS 83A.040 (2) (d))
§ 30.15 VICE-MAYOR.
   (A)   Creation; term.
      (1)   The position of Vice-Mayor of the City of Crestview Hills, Kentucky
is created.
      (2)   The term of office of the Vice-Mayor shall be two (2) years and
shall correspond to the terms of office of the members of Council elected at
the time of selection of the Vice-Mayor.
   (B)   Qualifications. The Vice-Mayor shall be the member of City Council who
received the largest number of votes in the last general election at which all
or a majority of members of Council were elected. If two (2) or more members
received the same plurality of votes the position shall be filled by lot.
   (C)   Duty. The duty of the Vice-Mayor shall be to preside at meetings of
Council in place of the Mayor.
   (D)   Vacancy. If a vacancy should occur in the position of Vice-Mayor, the
member of Council who received the second largest number of votes in such
election shall fill the position for the remainder of the term of office.
(Ord. 1997-9-1, passed 9-11-97)
§ 30.16 COUNCIL MEMBERS.
   (A)   Election; term of office. Each Council member shall be elected at-
large by the voters of the city at a regular election. His or her term of
office shall begin on the first day of January following his or her election
and shall be for two (2) years except as provided by § 30.10.
   (B)   Qualifications. A member shall be at least twenty-one (21) years of
age, shall be a qualified voter in the city, and shall reside in the city
throughout his or her term of office.
   (C)   Vacancies. If one (1) or more vacancies on Council occur in a way that
one or more members remain seated, the remaining members shall within thirty
(30) days fill the vacancies one (1) at a time, giving each new appointee
reasonable notice of his or her selection as will enable him or her to meet and
act with the remaining members in making further appointments until all
vacancies are filled. If vacancies occur in a way that all seats become vacant,
the Governor shall appoint qualified persons to fill the vacancies sufficient
to constitute a quorum. Remaining vacancies shall be filled as provided in this
section.
(KRS 83A.040 (5))
      (1)   No vacancy by reason of a voluntary resignation of a member of the
City Council shall occur unless a written resignation which specifies a
resignation date is tendered to the City Council. The resignation may be
submitted through electronic mail if it originates from the member’s electronic
mail address and includes also the member’s handwritten signature. The
resignation shall be effective at the next regular or special meeting of the
City Council occurring on or after the date specified in the written letter of
resignation. If a resignation date is not specified, the written resignation
shall be deemed to become effective at the first regular or special meeting of
the City Council occurring on or after its receipt. (KRS 83A.040 (7))
(KRS 83A.040 (7))
      (2)   If a vacancy occurs on the City Council which is required by law to
be filled temporarily by appointment, the City Council shall immediately notify
in writing both the County Clerk and the Secretary of State of the vacancy.
(KRS 83A.040 (8))
   (D)   Failure to fill vacancies. If for any reason, any vacancy on Council
is not filled within thirty (30) days after it occurs, the Governor shall
promptly fill the vacancy by appointment of a qualified person who shall serve
for the same period as if otherwise appointed.
(KRS 83A.040 (6))
NONELECTED OFFICERS
§ 30.20 CREATION OF OFFICES.
   All nonelected city offices shall be created by ordinance which shall
specify:
   (A)   Title of office;
   (B)   Powers and duties of office;
   (C)   Oath of office;
   (D)   Bond, if required; and
(KRS 83A.080 (1))
§ 30.21 APPOINTMENT AND REMOVAL
   (A)   All nonelected city officers shall be appointed by the Mayor and all
such appointments shall be with approval of Council.
   (B)   The officers may be removed by the Mayor at will unless otherwise
provided by statute or ordinance.
   (C)   Upon removal of a nonelected officer at will, the Mayor shall give the
officer a written statement setting forth the reason or reasons for the
removal. However, this requirement shall not be construed as limiting in any
way the at-will dismissal power of the executive authority.
(KRS 83A.080 (3))
_________________
Cross-reference:
   Abolition of appointed office, see §
30.12
§ 30.22 CITY ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER.
   (A)   Pursuant to KRS 83A.090 the office of City Administrative Officer is
hereby created.
   (B)   The City Administrative Officer shall be appointed by the Mayor with
the approval of City Council. The Officer shall not enter upon the duties of
the office until he has been administered the oath of office, and executed bond
in the amount of $5,000 with surety. The Officer shall serve at the pleasure of
the Mayor.
   (C)   The minimum requirements for the position of City Administrative
Officer shall be a Bachelor's Degree with a major in public administration,
business administration, or a related field (Masters Degree preferred), and
must have considerable, progressively responsible experience in municipal
affairs.
   (D)   The duties of the Administrative Officer shall include:
      (1)   Advising and counseling the Mayor in policy matters in the overall
operation of the city;
      (2)   Having major responsibility for preparation and administration of
the operating and capital improvement budgets under the direction of the Mayor;
      (3)   Advising and counseling the Mayor in the appointment of the
subordinate administrative personnel;
      (4)   Having continuing direct relationships with the operating
department heads on implementation and administration of municipal programs.
      (5)   Such additional duties lawfully delegated by the mayor from time to
time in the course of the business of the city.
   (E)   The compensation of the City Administrative Officer shall be
reasonable and commensurate with his qualifications and experience at the time
of appointment, and shall be negotiated with the consent of Council.
(Ord. 86-2-1, passed 3-13-86)
§ 30.23 CITY CLERK.
   (A)   There is created the office of City Clerk. The City Clerk shall
execute bond in the amount of three thousand dollars ($3,000) with corporate
surety and shall be compensated at a rate established by Council.
   (B)   The function of the office of City Clerk is to perform all of those
duties usually incumbent upon an officer appointed to such office as imposed by
law, and to assist the City Treasurer in the performance of the duties of that
office as fixed by law or ordinance.
(Ord. 1980-81, passed 9-11-80)
§ 30.24 DUTIES OF THE CITY CLERK.
   (A)   The duties and responsibilities of the Clerk shall include, but are
not limited to the following:
      (1)   Maintenance and safekeeping of the permanent records of the city as
set forth in
Chapter 32;
      (2)   Performance of the duties required of the “official custodian” or
“custodian” pursuant to KRS 61.870 through 61.882 and as set forth in
Chapter 32;
      (3)   Possession of the seal of the city if used; and
      (4)   Act as tax collector.
      (5)   No later than January 31 of each year, mail or electronically
submit to the Department for Local Government, a list containing current city
information including but not limited to the following:
         (a)   The correct name, telephone number, and electronic mail address
of the mayor, legislative body members, and the correct name, telephone number,
and electronic mail address for the city’s appointed officials or employees who
are serving in the following roles or substantially similar roles as of January
1 of each year:
            1.   City Clerk;
            2.   City Treasurer or Chief Financial Officer;
            3.   City Manager or Administrator;
            4.   City Attorney;
            5.   Human Resources Director;
            6.   Risk Manager;
            7.   Information Technology Manager;
            8.   Public Relations or Communications Officer; and
            9.   Planning and Zoning Administrator.
         (b)   The correct name of the city, mailing address for City Hall, and
telephone number of City Hall; and
         (c)   The name and telephone number of either an elected official to
serve as a contact person that may be reached during normal business hours of
9:00 a.m. to 4:30 p.m.
         (d)   The name and telephone number of either an elected or appointed
official to serve as a contact person that may be reached during normal
business hours of 8:00 a.m. to 4:30 p.m.;
      (6)   Performance of all other duties and responsibilities required of
the City Clerk by statute or ordinance.
      (7)   Once the information required to be reported under division (5) of
this section is compiled by the Department for Local Government, the Department
shall forward one (1) electronic copy of the compiled information to the
Legislative Research Commission.
(KRS 83A.085(3)(d) - (f))
   (B)   Compensation shall be in the amount as established by the City Council
from time to time as set forth in §
30.32.
   (C)   No person shall be appointed or act as the City Clerk unless such
person has taken the oath required by Section 228 of the Constitution of the
Commonwealth of Kentucky and has provided bond in the amount of one thousand
dollars ($1,000) with corporate surety authorized to transact business in
Kentucky and conditioned upon the performance of the duties specified herein.
§ 30.25 CODE ENFORCEMENT OFFICER.
   (A)   The City Administrator shall exercise the office of Code Enforcement
Officer and shall perform all duties and responsibilities attendant with that
office consistent with the requirements of state law and
Chapter 92 of the Crestview Hills Code of Ordinances.
   (B)   Oath and Bond. No person shall be appointed or act as the Code
Enforcement Officer unless such person has taken the oath required by Section
228 of the Constitution of the Commonwealth of Kentucky and has provided a bond
in the sum established by City Council with corporate surety authorized to
transact business in the Commonwealth of Kentucky and condition upon the
performance of the duties specified herein. The oath given by the City
Administrator as part of his office as City Administrator and the bond provided
by the City Administrator as part of that office shall be sufficient to satisfy
the oath and bond requirements of this section.
   (C)   Compensation. The compensation of the City Code Enforcement Officer
shall be paid as part of the City Administrator's total compensation and in
accordance with the Code of Ordinances for the City of Crestview Hills,
Kentucky.
   (D)   The City Administrator is hereby appointed Code Enforcement Officer
through the appointment by the Mayor with approval of City Council. All non-
elected officers may be removed by the Mayor at will unless otherwise provided
by the Kentucky Revised Statutes or the Code of Ordinances of the City of
Crestview Hills.
(Ord. 2007-8-4, passed 9-13-07)
§ 30.26 ZONING ADMINISTRATOR.
   (A)   The City Administrator shall exercise the office and functions of
Zoning Administrator and shall perform all duties and responsibilities
attendant with that office consistent with the requirements of Section 16 of
the Zoning Code of the City of Crestview Hills, Kentucky.
   (B)   Oath and Bond. No person shall be appointed or act as the Zoning
Administrator unless such person has taken the oath required by Section 228 of
the Constitution of the Commonwealth of Kentucky and has provided a bond in the
sum established by City Council with corporate surety authorized to transact
business in the Commonwealth of Kentucky and condition upon the performance of
the duties specified herein. The oath given by the City Administrator as part
of his office as City Administrator and the bond provided by the City
Administrator as part of that office shall be sufficient to satisfy the oath
and bond requirements of this section.
   (C)   Compensation. The compensation of the Zoning Administrator shall be
paid as part of the City Administrator's total compensation and in accordance
with the Code of Ordinances for the City of Crestview Hills, Kentucky.
   (D)   The City Administrator is hereby appointed Zoning Administrator
through the appointment by the Mayor with approval of City Council. All non-
elected officers may be removed by the Mayor at will unless otherwise provided
by the Kentucky Revised Statutes or the Code of Ordinances of the City of
Crestview Hills.
(Ord. 2008-11-1, passed 12-11-08)
§ 30.27 DISTILLED SPIRITS AND MALT BEVERAGE ADMINISTRATOR.
   (A)   The City Administrator shall exercise the office of Distilled Spirits
and Malt Beverage Administrator and shall perform all duties and
responsibilities attendant with that office consistent with the requirements of
the Kentucky Revised Statutes and § 113.03 of the Code of Ordinances of the
City of Crestview Hills, Kentucky.
   (B)   Oath and Bond. No person shall be appointed or act as the Distilled
Spirits and Malt Beverage Administrator unless such person has taken the oath
required by Section 228 of the Constitution of the Commonwealth of Kentucky and
has provided a bond in the sum established by City Council with corporate
surety authorized to transact business in the Commonwealth of Kentucky and
condition upon the performance of the duties specified herein. The oath given
by the City Administrator as part of his office as City Administrator and the
bond provided by the City Administrator as part of that office shall be
sufficient to satisfy the oath and bond requirements of this section.
   (C)   Compensation. The compensation of the City Distilled Spirits and Malt
Beverage Administrator shall be paid as part of the City Administrator's total
compensation and in accordance with the Code of Ordinances for the City of
Crestview Hills, Kentucky. The City Administrator is hereby appointed Distilled
Spirits and Malt Beverage Administrator through the appointment by the Mayor
with approval of City Council. All non-elected officers may be removed by the
Mayor at will unless otherwise provided by the Kentucky Revised Statutes or the
Code of Ordinances of the City of Crestview Hills.
(Ord. 2007-8-3, passed 9-13-07)
COMPENSATION OF OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES
§ 30.30 ELECTED OFFICERS.
   (A)   Council shall by ordinance fix the compensation of every elected city
officer not later than the first Monday in May in the year in which the officer
is elected. As elected officer's compensation shall not be changed after his
election or during his term of office.
(KRS 83A.070 (1))
   (B)   Council may, by ordinance, establish the compensation for any elective
office on a salaried or per diem basis.
(KRS 83A.070 (4))
§ 30.31 (RESERVED).
§ 30.32 CITY EMPLOYEES AND NONELECTED OFFICERS.
   Council shall fix the compensation of city employees and nonelected officers
in accordance with a personnel and pay classification plan which shall be
adopted by ordinance.
(KRS 83A.070 (2))
§ 30.33 FEES AND COMMISSIONS.
   All fees and commissions authorized by law shall be paid into the city
treasury for the benefit of the city and shall not be retained by any officer
or employee.
(KRS 83A.070 (3))
§ 30.34 EQUATING OF COMPENSATION RATE OF MAYOR AND COUNCIL MEMBERS WITH
PURCHASING POWER OF DOLLAR.
   (A)   In order to equate the compensation of the Mayor and Council Members
with the purchasing power of the dollar, the Department for Local Government
shall compute by the second Friday in February of every year the annual
increase or decrease in the consumer price index of the preceding year by using
1949 as the base year in accordance with section 246 of the Constitution of
Kentucky which provides that the Mayor in cities other than the first class and
Council members shall be paid at a rate no greater than seven thousand two
hundred dollars ($7,200) per annum.
   (B)   The City Council shall set the compensation of the officer in
accordance with KRS 83A.070 at a rate no greater than that stipulated by the
Department for Local Government.
(KRS 83A.075)
CHAPTER 31: MAYOR-COUNCIL PLAN
Section
   
31.01   Form of government
   
31.02   Governing officers
Mayor
   
31.10   Powers and duties
   
31.11   Promulgation of administrative procedures
   
31.12   Participation in Council proceedings
   
31.13   Approval or disapproval of ordinances
   
31.14   Delegation of duties by executive order
   
31.15   Execution of bonds, notes, and contracts
   
31.16   Appointment of city employees
   
31.17   Procedure upon disability; vacancy
   
31.18   Compensation
Council
   
31.30   Powers and duties
   
31.31   Meetings
   
31.32   Establishment of appointive offices
   
31.33   Management of city resources
   
31.34   Investigation of city government activities
   
31.35   Compensation
§ 31.01 FORM OF GOVERNMENT.
   The form of government provided in this chapter shall be known as the
"Mayor-Council Plan."
(KRS 83A.130 (1))
§ 31.02 GOVERNING OFFICERS.
   (A)   The city shall be governed by an elected executive who shall be called
Mayor and by an elected legislative body which shall be called the City
Council, and by such other officers and employees as may be provided for by
statute or city ordinance.
(KRS 83A.130 (2))
   (B)   The city shall have a Mayor and a City Council composed of six
members.
(KRS 83A.030 (1))
MAYOR
§ 31.10 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   The executive authority of the city shall be vested in and exercised
by the Mayor. The Mayor shall enforce the Mayor-Council Plan, city ordinances
and orders, and all applicable statutes. He shall supervise all departments of
city government and the conduct of all city officers and employees under his
jurisdiction and shall require each department to make reports to him required
by ordinance or as he deems desirable.
   (B)   The Mayor shall maintain liaison with related units of local
government respecting interlocal contracting and joint activities.
   (C)   The Mayor shall report to the Council and to the public on the
condition and needs of city government as he finds appropriate or as required
by ordinance, but not less than annually. He shall make any recommendations for
actions by the Council he finds in the public interest.
(KRS 83A.130 (3))
_________________
Cross-reference:
   Right to review statements submitted to Council pursuant to investigations,
see §
31.34
§ 31.11 PROMULGATION OF ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEDURES.
   Subject to disapproval of the Council, the Mayor shall promulgate procedures
to insure orderly administration of the functions of city government and
compliance with statute or ordinance. Upon promulgation or upon revision or
recession of the procedures, copies shall be filed with the person responsible
for maintaining city records as provided under §
32.07.
(KRS 83A.130 (4))
§ 31.12 PARTICIPATION IN COUNCIL PROCEEDINGS.
   (A)   The Mayor shall preside at meetings of the Council. The Council may
set by ordinance the manner in which one of its number may be selected to
preside at meetings of the Council in place of the Mayor.
   (B)   The Mayor may participate in Council proceedings, but shall not have a
vote, except that he may cast the deciding vote in case of a tie.
(KRS 83A.130 (5))
_________________
Cross-reference:
   Council Meetings, see §
31.31
§ 31.13 APPROVAL OR DISAPPROVAL OF ORDINANCES.
   (A)   All ordinances adopted by the Council shall be submitted to the Mayor
who shall within ten (10) days after submission either approve the ordinance by
affixing his signature or disapprove it by returning it to the Council together
with a statement of his objections.
   (B)   No ordinance shall take effect without the Mayor's approval unless he
fails to return it to the legislative body within ten days after receiving it
or unless the Council votes to override the Mayor's veto, upon reconsideration
of the ordinance not later than the second regular meeting following its
return, by the affirmative vote of one more than a majority of the membership.
(KRS 83A.130 (6))
_________________
Cross-reference:
   Passage of ordinances, see
Chapter 32
§ 31.14 DELEGATION OF DUTIES BY EXECUTIVE ORDER.
   Any delegation of the Mayor's power, duties, or responsibilities to
subordinate officers and employees and any expression of his official authority
to fulfill executive functions shall be made by executive order. Executive
orders shall be sequentially numbered by years and shall be kept in a permanent
file.
(KRS 83A.130 (7))
§ 31.15 EXECUTION OF BONDS, NOTES, AND CONTRACTS.
   All bonds, notes, contracts, and written obligations of the city shall be
made and executed by the Mayor or his agent designated by the executive order.
(KRS 83A.130 (8))
§ 31.16 APPOINTMENT OF CITY EMPLOYEES.
   The Mayor shall be the appointing authority with power to appoint and remove
all city employees, including police officers, except as tenure and terms of
employment are protected by statute, ordinance, or contract and except for
employees of the Council.
(KRS 83A.130 (9))
§ 31.17 PROCEDURE UPON DISABILITY; VACANCY.
   (A)   The Mayor shall provide for the orderly continuation of the functions
of city government at any time he is unable to attend to the duties of his
office by delegating responsibility for any function to be performed in
accordance with §
31.14, provided that, the Mayor shall not delegate the responsibility of
presiding at meetings of the Council and that approving ordinances or
promulgating administrative procedures may only be delegated to any elected
officer. With approval of the Council, the Mayor may rescind any action taken
in his absence under this section within thirty (30) days of such action.
   (B)   If for any reason the disability of the Mayor to attend to his duties
persists for sixty (60) consecutive days, the office of Mayor may be declared
vacant by a majority vote of the Council and the provisions of §
30.14 shall apply.
(KRS 83A.130 (10))
§ 31.18 COMPENSATION.
   The annual salary of the Mayor is hereby established at the sum of six
thousand dollars ($6,000.00) per year, payable in twelve (12) equal monthly
installments effective January 1, 2003. The annual salary of the Mayor shall be
increased to six thousand four hundred dollars ($6,400) effective January 1,
2007.
(Ord. 1999-12-2, passed 1-13-00; Am. Ord. 2003-11-1, passed 12-11-03)
COUNCIL
§ 31.30 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   The legislative authority of the city shall be vested in and exercised by
the elected Council of the city. The Council shall not perform any executive
functions except those functions assigned to it by statute.
(KRS 83A.130 (11))
§ 31.31 MEETINGS.
   (A)   Regular meetings of the City Council shall be held on the second
Thursday of each month at 7:00 p.m. All regular and special meetings will be
held at the Crestview Hills City Building, 50 Town Center Boulevard, Crestview
Hills, Kentucky 41017.
(Ord. 1980-2-2, passed 2-14-80; Am. Ord. 2008-2-2, passed 4-10-08)
   (B)   Special meetings of the City Council may be called by the Mayor or
upon written request of a majority of the Council. In the call, the Mayor or
Council shall designate the purpose, time, and place of the special meeting
with sufficient notice for the attendance of Council members and for compliance
with KRS Chapter 61.
   (C)   At a special meeting no business may be considered other than that set
forth in the designation of purpose.
   (D)   The minutes of every meeting shall be signed by the person responsible
for maintaining city records provided under § 32.07 and by the officer
presiding at the meeting.
(KRS 83A.130 (11)) (Am. Ord. 2020-01-01, passed 1-9-20)
__________________
Cross-reference:
   Mayor's participation in Meetings, see §
31.12
   Quorum of Council, see §
32.01
§ 31.32 ESTABLISHMENT OF APPOINTIVE OFFICES.
   The Council shall by ordinance establish all appointive offices and the
duties and responsibilities of those offices and codes, rules, and regulations
for the public health, safety, and welfare.
(KRS 83A.130 (12))
§ 31.33 MANAGEMENT OF CITY RESOURCES.
   The Council shall by ordinance provide for sufficient revenue to operate
city government and shall appropriate the funds of the city in a budget which
shall provide for the orderly management of city resources.
(KRS 83A.130 (12))
§ 31.34 INVESTIGATION OF CITY GOVERNMENT ACTIVITIES.
   (A)   The Council shall have the right to investigate all activities of city
government. The Council may require any city officer or employee to prepare and
submit to it sworn statements regarding his performance of his official duties.
   (B)   Any statement required by the Council to be submitted or any
investigation undertaken by the Council, if any office, department, or agency
under the jurisdiction of the Mayor is involved, shall not be submitted or
undertaken unless and until written notice of the Council's action is given to
the Mayor. The Mayor shall have the right to review any statement before
submission to the Council and to appear personally or through his designee on
behalf of any department, office, or agency in the course of any investigation.
(KRS 83A.130 (13))
§ 31.35 COMPENSATION.
   The compensation of each member of the City Council is hereby established at
the sum of two thousand four hundred dollars ($2,400.00) per year, payable in
twelve (12) equal monthly installments effective January 1, 2001. The annual
salary of each member of City Council shall be increased to two thousand eight
hundred dollars ($2,800) effective January 1, 2005.
(Ord. 1999-12-2, passed 1-13-00; Am. Ord. 2003-11-1, passed 12-11-03)
CHAPTER 32: PASSAGE OF ORDINANCES
Section
   
32.01   Quorum of Council
   
32.02   One subject; title
   
32.03   Introduction; enacting clause
   
32.04   Form of amendment
   
32.05   Reading requirement; exception for emergency
   
32.06   Adoption of standard codes by reference
   
32.07   Official city records
   
32.08   Indexing and maintenance requirements
   
32.09   Publication requirements
   
32.10   Additional requirements for adoption
   
32.11   Periodic review required
   
32.12   Municipal orders
   
32.13   Proved by Clerk; received in evidence
   
32.14   Legislative immunity
§ 32.01 QUORUM OF COUNCIL.
   Unless otherwise provided by statute, a majority of the Council shall
constitute a quorum and a vote of a majority of a quorum shall be sufficient to
take action.
(KRS 83A.060 (6))
§ 32.02 ONE SUBJECT; TITLE.
   Each ordinance shall embrace only one subject and shall have a title that
clearly states the subject.
(KRS 83A.060 (1))
§ 32.03 INTRODUCTION; ENACTING CLAUSE.
   Each ordinance shall be introduced in writing and shall have an enacting
clause styled "Be it ordained by the City of ______________."
(KRS 83A.060 (3))
§ 32.04 FORM OF AMENDMENT.
   No ordinance shall be amended by reference to its title only, and ordinances
to amend shall set out in full the amended ordinance or section indicating any
text being added by a single solid line drawn underneath it. Text that is
intended to be removed shall be marked at the beginning with an opening bracket
and at the end with a closing bracket. The text between the brackets shall be
stricken through with a single solid line.
(KRS 83A.060(3))
_________________
Cross-reference:
   Amendatory language, see §
10.14
§ 32.05 READING REQUIREMENT; EXCEPTION FOR EMERGENCY.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (B) of this section, no ordinance shall
be enacted until it has been read on two (2) separate days. The reading of an
ordinance may be satisfied by stating the title and reading a summary rather
than the full text.
   (B)   In an emergency, upon the affirmative vote of two-thirds of the
membership, the Council may suspend the requirements of second reading and
publication in order for an ordinance to become effective by naming and
describing the emergency in the ordinance. Publication requirements of §
32.09 shall be complied within ten (10) days of the enactment of the emergency
ordinance.
(KRS 83A.060 (4), (7))
________________
Cross-reference:
   Approval of ordinances by Mayor, see §
31.13
§ 32.06 ADOPTION OF STANDARD CODES BY REFERENCE.
   The Council may adopt the provisions of any local, statewide, or nationally
recognized standard code and codifications of entire bodies of local
legislation by an ordinance that identifies the subject matter by title,
source, and date and incorporates the adopted provisions by reference without
setting them out in full, if a copy accompanies the adopting ordinance and is
made a part of the permanent records of the city.
(KRS 83A.060 (5))
§ 32.07 OFFICIAL CITY RECORDS.
   (A)   Every action of the Council shall be made a part of the permanent
records of the city and on passage of an ordinance the vote of each member of
the Council shall be entered on the official record of the meeting.
   (B)   The Council shall provide by ordinance for the maintenance and
safekeeping of the permanent records of the city. The person assigned this
responsibility and the presiding officer shall sign the official record of each
meeting.
(KRS 83A.060 (8))
(Ord. 1977-12-1, passed 12-14-77; Am. Ord. 1988-4-3, passed 5-12-88)
____________________
Statutory reference:
   Open records, see KRS 61.870 et seq.
§ 32.08 INDEXING AND MAINTENANCE REQUIREMENTS.
   All ordinances adopted in the city shall, at the end of each month, be
indexed and maintained in the following manner:
   (A)   The city budget, appropriations of money, and tax levies shall be
maintained and indexed so that each fiscal year is kept separate from other
years.
   (B)   All other city ordinances shall be kept in the minute book or an
ordinance book in the order adopted and indexed in a composite index or
maintained in a code of ordinances.
(KRS 83A.060 (8))
§ 32.09 PUBLICATION REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Except as provided in §
32.05  (B), no ordinance shall be enforceable until published pursuant to KRS
Chapter 424.
   (B)   Ordinances may be published in full or in summary as designated by
City Council. If the City Council elects to publish an ordinance in summary,
the summary shall be prepared or certified by an attorney licensed to practice
law in the Commonwealth of Kentucky and shall include the following:
      (1)   The title of the ordinance;
      (2)   A brief narrative setting forth the main points of the ordinance in
a way reasonably calculated to inform the public in a clear and understandable
manner of the meaning of the ordinance;
      (3)   The full text of each section that imposes taxes or fees.
   (C)   Ordinances that include descriptions of real property may include a
sketch, drawing, or map, including common landmarks, such as streets or roads
in lieu of metes and bounds descriptions.
(KRS 83A.060 (9))
§ 32.10 ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENTS FOR ADOPTION.
   The city may by ordinance specify additional requirements for adoption of
ordinances in greater detail than contained herein, but a city shall not lessen
or reduce the substantial requirements of this chapter or any other statute
relating to adoption of ordinances.
(KRS 83A.060 (10))
§ 32.11 PERIODIC REVIEW REQUIRED.
   Not less than once every five (5) years the city shall cause all ordinances
in the composite index or code of ordinances to be examined for consistency
with state law and with one another and to be revised to eliminate redundant,
obsolete, inconsistent, and invalid provisions.
(KRS 83A.060 (11))
§ 32.12 MUNICIPAL ORDERS.
   (A)   Council may adopt municipal orders. Any order shall be in writing and
may be adopted only at an official meeting. Any order may be amended by a
subsequent municipal order or ordinance. All orders adopted shall be maintained
in an official order book.
   (B)   In lieu of an ordinance, a municipal order may be used for matters
relating to the internal operation and functions of the city and to appoint or
remove or approve appointment or removal of members of boards, commissions, and
other agencies over which the city has control.
(KRS 83A.060 (12), (13))
§ 32.13 PROVED BY CLERK; RECEIVED IN EVIDENCE.
   All ordinances and orders of the city may be proved by the signature of the
City Clerk; and when the ordinances are placed in a printed composite index or
code of ordinances by authority of the city, the printed copy shall be received
in evidence by any state court without further proof of such ordinances.
(KRS 83A.060 (14))
§ 32.14 LEGISLATIVE IMMUNITY.
   For anything said in debate, Councilmen shall be entitled to the same
immunities and protections allowed to members of the general assembly.
(KRS 83A.060 (15))
____________________
Statutory reference:
   Privileges of members of general assembly, see KRS 6.050 and Ky. Const. § 43
CHAPTER 33: FINANCE AND REVENUE
Section
Financial Administration
   
33.01   Definitions
   
33.02   Accounting records and financial reports
   
33.03   Annual budget ordinance
   
33.04   Annual audit of city funds
   
33.05   Official depositories; disbursement of city funds
Improvements
   
33.10   Definitions
   
33.11   Financing of improvements
   
33.12   Apportionment of cost
   
33.13   Comprehensive report required
   
33.14   Public hearing required
   
33.15   Adoption of ordinance; notice to affected owners
   
33.16   Affected owner may contest
   
33.17   When city may proceed; assessment constitutes hen
   
33.18   Effect of additional property or change in financing
________________
Cross-reference:
   Establishment of downtown business district, see §
153.01
   Taxation, see
Ch. 95
FINANCIAL ADMINISTRATION
§ 33.01 DEFINITIONS.
   As used in this subchapter, unless the context otherwise requires, the
following definitions shall apply:
   "BUDGET." A proposed plan for raising and spending money for specified
programs, functions, activities, or objectives during a fiscal year.
   "DEBT SERVICE." The sum of money required to pay installments of principal
and interest on bonds, notes, and other evidences of debt accruing within a
fiscal year and to maintain sinking funds.
   "ENCUMBRANCES." Obligations in the form of purchase orders or contracts that
are chargeable to an appropriation. An obligation ceases to be an encumbrance
when paid or when the actual liability is recorded.
   "FISCAL YEAR." The accounting period for the administration of fiscal
operations.
   "GENERALLY ACCEPTED GOVERNMENTAL AUDITING STANDARDS." Those standards for
audit of governmental organizations, programs, activities and functions issued
by the Comptroller General of the United States.
(KRS 91A.010(6))
   "GENERALLY ACCEPTED PRINCIPLES OF GOVERNMENTAL ACCOUNTING." Those standards
and procedures promulgated and recognized by the Governmental Accounting
Standards Board.
(KRS 91A.010(7))
§ 33.02 ACCOUNTING RECORDS AND FINANCIAL REPORTS.
   (A)   The city shall keep its accounting records and render financial
reports in such a way as to:
      (1)   Determine compliance with statutory provisions;
      (2)   Determine fairly and with full disclosure the financial operations
of constituent funds and account groups of the city in conformity with
generally accepted governmental accounting principles; and
      (3)   Readily provide such financial data as may be required by the
federal revenue sharing program.
   (B)   The municipal accounting system shall be organized and operated on a
fund basis.
(KRS 91A.020)
§ 33.03 ANNUAL BUDGET ORDINANCE.
   (A)   The city shall operate under an annual budget ordinance adopted and
administered in accordance with the provisions of this section. Notwithstanding
any other provision of law, after July 15, 1980, the city shall not expend any
moneys from any governmental or proprietary fund, except in accordance with a
budget ordinance adopted pursuant to this section.
   (B)   Monies held by the city as a trustee or agent for individuals, private
organizations, or other governmental units need not be included in the budget
ordinance.
   (C)   If in any fiscal year subsequent to a fiscal year in which the city
has adopted a budget ordinance in accordance with this section, no budget
ordinance is adopted, the budget ordinance of the previous fiscal year shall
have full force and effect as if readopted.
   (D)   The budget ordinance of the city shall cover one fiscal year. However,
if the city is required to adjust its fiscal year to conform to the fiscal year
set out in Section 169 of the Kentucky Constitution it may utilize for
transition purposes a fiscal year of any length not to exceed eighteen (18)
months. Any such adjustment shall be completed not later than two (2) years
from July 15, 1980.
   (E)   Preparation of the budget proposal shall be the responsibility of the
Mayor.
   (F)   The budget proposal shall be prepared in such form and detail as is
prescribed by ordinance.
   (G)   The budget proposal together with a budget message shall be submitted
to Council not later than thirty (30) days prior to the beginning of the fiscal
year it covers. The budget message shall contain an explanation of the
governmental goals fixed by the budget for the coming fiscal year; explain
important features of the activities anticipated in the budget; set forth the
reasons for stated changes from the previous year in program goals, programs,
and appropriation levels; and explain any major changes in fiscal policy.
   (H)   (1)   Council shall adopt a budget ordinance making appropriations for
the fiscal year in such sums as it finds sufficient and proper, whether greater
or less than the sums recommended in the budget proposal. The budget ordinance
may be in any form that Council finds most efficient in enabling it to make the
necessary fiscal policy decisions.
      (2)   No budget ordinance shall be adopted which provides for
appropriations to exceed revenues in any one fiscal year in violation of
Section 157 of the Kentucky Constitution.
   (I)   The full amount estimated to be required for debt service during the
budget year shall be appropriated, for all governmental fund types.
   (J)   Council may amend the budget ordinance at any time after the
ordinance's adoption, so long as the amended ordinance continues to satisfy the
requirements of this section.
   (K)   Administration and implementation of an adopted budget ordinance shall
be the responsibility of the Mayor. Such responsibility shall include the
preparation and submission to Council of operating statements which shall
include budgetary comparisons of each governmental fund for which an annual
budget has been adopted. Such reports shall be submitted not less than once
every three (3) months in each fiscal year.
   (L)   To the extent practical, the system utilized in the administration and
implementation of the adopted budget ordinance shall be consistent in form with
the accounting system called for in §
33.02.
   (M)   No city agency, or member, director, officer, or employee of any city
agency, may bind the city in any way to any extent beyond the amount of money
at that time appropriated for the purpose of the agency. All contracts,
agreements, and obligations, express or implied beyond such existing
appropriations are void; nor shall any city officer issue any bond,
certificate, or warrant for the payment of money by the city in any way to any
extent, beyond the unexpected balance of any appropriation made for the
purpose.
(KRS 91A.030)
§ 33.04 ANNUAL AUDIT OF CITY FUNDS.
   (A)   Each city shall after the close of each fiscal year, cause each fund
of the city to be audited by the Auditor of Public Accounts or a certified
public accountant. The audit shall be completed by March 1 immediately
following the fiscal year being audited. The city shall forward an electronic
copy of the audit report to the Department for Local Government for information
purposes by no later than April 1 immediately following the fiscal year being
audited.
   (B)   If a city is required by another provision of law to audit its funds
more frequently or more stringently than is required by this section, the city
shall also comply with the provisions of that law.
   (C)   The Department for Local Government shall, upon request, make
available electronic copies of the audit reports and financial statements
received by it under division (A) of this section to the Legislative Research
Commission to be used for the purposes of KRS 6.955 to 6.975 or to the Auditor
of Public Accounts.
   (D)   Each city required by this section to conduct an annual or biennial
audit shall enter into a written contract with the selected auditor. The
contract shall set forth all terms and conditions of the agreement which shall
include but not be limited to requirements that:
      (1)   The auditor be employed to examine the basic financial statements,
which shall include the government-wide and fund financial statements;
      (2)   The Auditor shall include in the annual or biennial city audit
report an examination of local government economic assistance funds granted to
the city under KRS 42.450 to 42.495. The auditor shall include a certification
with the annual or biennial audit report that the funds were expended for the
purpose intended;
      (3)   All audit information be prepared in accordance with generally
accepted governmental auditing standards which include tests of the accounting
records and auditing procedures considered necessary in the circumstances.
Where the audit is to cover the use of state or federal funds, appropriate
state or Federal guidelines shall be utilized;
      (4)   The auditor shall prepare a typewritten or printed report
embodying:
         (a)   The basic financial statements and accompanying supplemental and
required supplemental information;
         (b)   The auditor's opinion on the basic financial statements or
reasons why an opinion cannot be expressed; and
         (c)   Findings required to be reported as a result of the audit;
      (5)   The completed audit and all accompanying documentation shall be
presented to the city legislative body at a regular or special meeting; and
      (6)   Any contract with a certified public accountant for an audit shall
require the accountant to forward a copy of the audit report and management
letters to the Auditor of Public Accounts upon request of the city or the
Auditor of Public Accounts, and the Auditor of Public Accounts shall have the
right to review the certified public accountant's work papers upon request.
   (E)   A copy of an audit report which meets the requirements of this section
shall be considered satisfactory and final in meeting any official request to a
city for financial data, except for statutory or judicial requirements, or
requirements of the Legislative Research Commission necessary to carry out the
purposes of KRS 6.955 to 6.975.
   (F)   Each city shall, within thirty (30) days after the presentation of an
audit to the city legislative body, publish an advertisement in accordance with
KRS Chapter 424 containing:
      (1)   The auditor's opinion letter;
      (2)   The “Budgetary Comparison Schedules-Major Funds,” which shall
include the general fund and all major funds;
      (3)   A statement that a copy of the complete audit report, including
financial statements and supplemental information, is on file at city hall and
is available for public inspection during normal business hours;
      (4)   A statement that any citizen may obtain from city hall a copy of
the complete audit report, including financial statements and supplemental
information, for his or her personal use;
      (5)   A statement which notifies citizens requesting a personal copy of
the city audit report that they will be charged for duplication costs at a rate
that shall not exceed twenty-five cents ($0.25) per page; and
      (6)   A statement that copies of the financial statement prepared in
accordance with KRS 424.220, when a financial statement is required by KRS
424.220, are available to the public at no cost at the business address of the
officer responsible for preparation of the statement.
   (G)   Any resident of the city or owner of real property within the city may
bring an action in the Circuit Court to enforce the provisions of this section.
Any person who violates any provision of this section shall be fined not less
than fifty dollars ($50) nor more than five hundred dollars ($500). In
addition, any officer who fails to comply with any of the provisions of this
section shall, for each failure, be subject to a forfeiture of not less than
fifty dollars ($50) nor more than five hundred dollars ($500), in the
discretion of the court, which may be recovered only once in a civil action
brought by any resident of the city or owner of real property within the city.
The costs of all proceedings, including a reasonable fee for the attorney of
the resident or property owner bringing the action, shall be assessed against
the unsuccessful party.
   (H)   In the event of extenuating circumstances that prevent a city from
completing and submitting a required audit or financial statement in compliance
with the applicable deadlines in division (A) of this section, the city may
submit a written request for an extension of time to the Department for Local
Government on a form prescribed by the Department for Local Government. The
Department for Local Government shall approve the request if it is submitted on
or before the applicable deadline, and in the judgment of the Department for
Local Government the request is warranted by extenuating circumstances beyond
the control of the city. Extensions granted under this subsection shall not
exceed nine (9) months from the original due date of the audit or financial
statement. If the Department for Local Government approves an extension for a
city and the city fails to complete and submit the required audit or financial
statement in compliance with that extended deadline, then the provisions of
division (I) of this section shall apply.
   (I)   If a city fails to complete an audit or financial statement and submit
it to the Department for Local Government as required in division (A) and
division (H) of this section, the Department for Local Government shall notify
the Finance and Administration Cabinet that the city has failed to comply with
the audit requirements of this section, and that any funds in the possession of
any agency, entity, or branch of state government shall be withheld from the
city until further notice. The Department for Local Government shall
immediately notify the Finance and Administration Cabinet when the city
complies with the requirements of division (A) and subsection (H) of this
section for all prior fiscal years it has failed to comply with the audit
requirements of this section, and the Finance and Administration Cabinet shall
direct the reinstatement of payments to the city, including any funds that were
withheld due to the noncompliance.
   (J)   Within a reasonable time after the completion of a special audit or
examination conducted pursuant to KRS 43.050, the Auditor shall bill the city
for the actual expense of the audit or examination conducted. The actual
expense shall include the hours of work performed on the audit or examination
as well as reasonable associated costs, including but not limited to travel
costs. The bill submitted to the city shall include a statement of the hourly
rate, total hours, and total costs for the entire audit or examination.
(KRS 91A.040)
§ 33.05 OFFICIAL DEPOSITORIES; DISBURSEMENT OF CITY FUNDS.
   (A)   The Mayor shall designate as the city's official depositories one or
more banks, federally insured savings and loan companies, or trust companies
within the Commonwealth. The amount of funds on deposit in an official
depository shall be fully insured by deposit insurance or surety bonds.
   (B)   All receipts from any source of city money or money for which the city
is responsible, which has not been otherwise invested or deposited in a manner
authorized by law, shall be deposited in official depositories. All city funds
shall be disbursed by written authorization approved by the Mayor which shall
state the name of the person to whom funds are payable, the purpose of the
payment and the fund out of which the funds are payable. Each authorization
shall be numbered and recorded.
(KRS 91A.060)
IMPROVEMENTS
§ 33.10 DEFINITIONS.
   As used in this subchapter, unless the context otherwise requires, the
following definitions shall apply:
   "ASSESSED VALUE BASIS." The apportionment of cost of an improvement
according to the ratio the assessed value of individual parcels of property
bears to the total assessed value of all such properties.
   "BENEFITS RECEIVED BASIS." The apportionment of cost of an improvement
according to equitable determination by Council of the special benefit received
by property from the improvement, including assessed value basis, front foot
basis, and square foot basis, or any combination thereof, and may include
consideration of assessed value of land only, graduation for different classes
of property based on nature and extent of special benefits received, and other
factors affecting benefits received.
   "COST." All costs related to an improvement, including planning, design,
property or easement acquisition and construction costs, fiscal and legal fees,
financing costs, and publication expenses.
   "FAIR BASIS." Assessed value basis, front foot basis, square foot basis, or
benefits received basis.
   "FRONT FOOT BASIS." The apportionment of cost of an improvement according to
the ratio the front footage on the improvement of individual parcels of
property bears to such front footage of all such properties.
   "IMPROVEMENT." Construction of any facility for public use or services or
any addition thereto, which is of special benefit to specific properties in the
area served by such facility.
   "PROPERTY." Any real property benefitted by an improvement.
   "SPECIAL ASSESSMENT" or "ASSESSMENT." A special charge fixed on property to
finance an improvement in whole or in part.
   "SQUARE FOOT BASIS." The apportionment of cost of an improvement according
to the ratio the square footage of individual parcels of property bears to the
square footage of all such property.
(KRS 91A.210)
§ 33.11 FINANCING OF IMPROVEMENTS.
   (A)   The city may not finance any improvement through special assessments
except pursuant to this subchapter, or other statutory authority.
(KRS 91A.200)
   (B)   The city may finance the cost of an improvement in whole or in part by
special assessments made as provided in this subchapter.
   (C)   Cost of an improvement shall be apportioned equitably on a fair basis.
   (D)   The city may provide for lump sum or installment payment of
assessments or for bond or other long-term financing, and for any improvement
may afford property owners the option as to method of payment or financing.
(KRS 91A.220)
§ 33.12 APPORTIONMENT OF COST.
   The cost of any improvement shall be apportioned on a benefits received
basis with respect to any property owned by the state, a local unit of
government, or any educational, religious, or charitable organization. Council
may assess such property in the same manner as for privately owned property or
it may pay the costs so apportioned out of general revenues.
(KRS 91A.230)
§ 33.13 COMPREHENSIVE REPORT REQUIRED.
   Before undertaking any improvements pursuant to this subchapter, the city
shall prepare a comprehensive report setting out:
   (A)   The nature of the improvement;
   (B)   The scope and the extent of the improvement, including the boundaries
or other description of the area to be assessed;
   (C)   The preliminary estimated cost of the improvement;
   (D)   The fair basis of assessment proposed;
   (E)   If financing of assessments is provided, the proposed method,
including the proposed years to maturity of any bonds to be issued in
connection with the improvement; and
   (F)   Such other information as may further explain material aspects of the
improvement, assessments, or financing.
(KRS 91A.240)
§ 33.14 PUBLIC HEARING REQUIRED.
   After preparation of the report required by §
33.13, the city shall hold at least one public hearing on the proposed
improvement at which all interested persons shall be heard. Notice of the
hearing shall be published pursuant to KRS Chapter 424, and mailed to each
affected property owner by certified mail, return receipt requested, and shall
include:
   (A)   The nature of the improvement;
   (B)   Description of area of the improvement;
   (C)   Statement that the city proposes to finance the improvement in whole
or in part by special assessment of property and the method to be used;
   (D)   Time and place the report may be examined; and
   (E)   Time and place of the hearing.
(KRS 91A.250)
§ 33.15 ADOPTION OF ORDINANCE; NOTICE TO AFFECTED OWNERS.
   Within ninety (90) days of conclusion of the hearing, the city shall
determine whether to proceed with the improvement by special assessments, and
if it determines to proceed shall adopt an ordinance so stating and containing
all necessary terms, including the items referred to in §
33.13 and description of all properties. Promptly upon passage the city shall
publish such ordinance pursuant to KRS Chapter 424 and shall mail by certified
mail to each affected property owner a notice of determination to proceed with
the project, the fair basis of assessment to be utilized, the estimated cost to
the property owner, and the ratio the cost to each property owner bears to the
total cost of the entire project.
(KRS 91A.260)
§ 33.16 AFFECTED OWNER MAY CONTEST.
   (A)   Within thirty (30) days of the mailing of the notice provided for in §
33.15, any affected property owner may file an action in the circuit court of
the county, contesting the undertaking of the project by special assessment,
the inclusion of his property in the improvement, or the amount of his
assessment. If the action contests the undertaking of the improvement by the
special assessment method of the inclusion of the property of that property
owner, no further action on the improvement insofar as it relates to any
property owner who is a plaintiff shall be taken until the final judgment has
been entered.
   (B)   The city may proceed with the improvement with respect to any
properties whose owners have not filed or joined in an action as provided in
this section or who have contested only the amounts of their assessments, and
the provisions of the resolution shall be final and binding with respect to
such property owners except as to contested amounts of assessments. After the
lapse of time as herein provided, all actions by owners of properties shall be
forever barred.
(KRS 91A.270)
§ 33.17 WHEN CITY MAY PROCEED; ASSESSMENT CONSTITUTES LIEN.
   (A)   After the passage of time for the action provided for in §
33.16, or after favorable final judgment in any such action, whichever comes
later, the city may proceed with the improvement or part thereof as was stayed
by the action, including notice requiring payment of special assessment or
installment thereon and bonds or other method proposed to finance the
improvement. The first installment may be apportioned so that other payments
will coincide with payment of ad valorem taxes.
   (B)   The amount of any outstanding assessment or installments thereof on
any property, and accrued interest and other charges, shall constitute a lien
on the property to secure payment to the bondholders or any other source of
financing of the improvement. The lien shall take precedence over all other
liens, whether created prior to or subsequent to the publication of the
ordinance, except a lien for state and county taxes, general municipal taxes,
and prior improvement taxes, and shall not be defeated or postponed by any
private or judicial sale, by any mortgage, or by any error or mistake in the
description of the property or in the names of the owners. No error in the
proceedings of the Council shall exempt any benefitted property from the lien
for the improvement assessment, or from payment thereof, or from the penalties
or interest thereon, as herein provided.
(KRS 91A.280)
§ 33.18 EFFECT OF ADDITIONAL PROPERTY OR CHANGE IN FINANCING.
   The city may undertake any further proceedings to carry out the improvement
or any extension or refinancing thereof, except that §§
33.13 through
33.17 shall apply if additional property is included in the improvement or if
change is made in the method or improvement with the consent of the owner
thereof without compliance with other sections if it does not increase the cost
apportioned to any other property, or any other change may be made without such
compliance if all property owners of the improvement consent.
(KRS 91A.290)
CHAPTER 34: DEPARTMENTS, BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS
Section
City Tree Board
   
34.001   Definitions
   
34.002   Creation; establishment
   
34.003   Term of office
   
34.004   Compensation
   
34.005   Duties and responsibilities
   
34.006   Operation
   
34.007   Review by City Council
Board of Ethics
   
34.010   Establishment
Emergency Management
   
34.030   Director’s duties and responsibilities
Architectural Review Board
   
34.040   Definitions
   
34.041   Architectural Review Board; purpose membership, and operation
   
34.042   Board order procedure
   
34.043   Board order standards of review
   
34.044   Failure to maintain
   
34.045   Ordinary maintenance
   
34.046   Appeals
Joint Code Enforcement Board
   
34.060   Definitions
   
34.061   Creation and membership
   
34.062   Enforcement powers
   
34.063   Appointment of members; term of office; removal from office; oath;
compensation; organization of board; meetings; quorum; conflict of interest;
minutes and records
   
34.064   Conflict of interest
   
34.065   Powers of the Code Enforcement Board
   
34.066   Enforcement proceedings
   
34.067   Hearing; notice and final order
   
34.068   Presentation of cases
   
34.069   Appeals; final judgment
   
34.070   Ordinance fine schedule
   
34.071   Lien; fines, charges, and fees
   
34.072   Lienholder notification system
   
34.073   Liens
   
34.074   Immediate action
   
34.075   Purpose
CITY TREE BOARD
§ 34.001 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   “PARK TREES.” Trees, shrubs, bushes and all other woody vegetation in public
parks having individual names, and all areas owned by the city, or to which the
public has free access as a park.
   “STREET TREES.” Trees, shrubs, bushes and all other woody vegetation on land
lying between property lines on either side of all streets, avenues, or ways
within the city.
(Ord. 1992-8-2, passed 9-10-92)
§ 34.002 CREATION; ESTABLISHMENT.
   There is hereby created and established a City Tree Board for the city,
which shall consist of five members, citizens, and residents of this city, who
shall be appointed by the Mayor with the approval of the Commission.
(Ord. 1992-8-2, passed 9-10-92)
§ 34.003 TERM OF OFFICE.
   The term of the five (5) persons to be appointed by the Mayor shall be three
(3) years except that the term of two (2) of the members appointed to the first
Board shall be for only one (1) year, and the term of two (2) members of the
first Board shall be for two (2) years. In the event that a vacancy shall occur
during the term of any member, his successor shall be appointed for the
unexpired portion of the term.
(Ord. 1992-8-2, passed 9-10-92)
§ 34.004 COMPENSATION.
   Members of the Board shall serve without compensation.
(Ord. 1992-8-2, passed 9-10-92)
§ 34.005 DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES.
   It shall be the responsibility of the Board to study, investigate, counsel,
develop and/or update annually, and administer a written plan for the care,
preservation, pruning, planting, replanting, removal, or disposition of trees
and shrubs in parks, along streets, and in other public areas. Such plan will
be presented annually to the City Council and, upon their acceptance and
approval, shall constitute the official comprehensive tree plan for the city.
The Board, when requested by the City Council shall consider and investigate,
making findings, reports and recommendations upon any special matter or
question coming within the scope of its work.
(Ord. 1992-8-2, passed 9-10-92)
§ 34.006 OPERATION.
   The Board shall choose its own officers, make its own rules and regulations,
and keep a journal of its findings. A majority of the members shall be a quorum
for the transaction of business.
(Ord. 1992-8-2, passed 9-10-92)
§ 34.007 REVIEW BY CITY COUNCIL.
   The City Council shall have the right to review the conduct, acts and
decisions of the City Tree Board. Any person may appeal from any ruling or
order of the City Tree Board to the City Council who may hear the matter and
make the final decision.
(Ord. 1992-8-2, passed 9-10-92)
BOARD OF ETHICS
§ 34.010 ESTABLISHMENT.
   For provisions concerning the Board of Ethics, see §§
35.60-
35.68.
EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT
§ 34.030 DIRECTOR’S DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES.
   (A)   The Homeland Security and Emergency Management Director of Kenton
County, Kentucky is hereby designated as the Director of Emergency Management
for the City of Crestview Hills, Kentucky to perform the duties and
responsibilities of a director of local emergency management agency as
prescribed in KRS 39A through 39F.
   (B)   When acting as the Director of Emergency Management for the city, the
Homeland Security and Emergency Director of Kenton County, Kentucky shall
utilize a Unified Command System (UCS) that is recognized by the U.S. Fire
Administration (USFA) and to include, as needed, the Mayor, the City
Administrator, the Fire/EMS Chief, the Chief of Police, and the Public Works
Director of the City of Crestview Hills.
(Ord. 2015-06-02, passed 7-9-15)
ARCHITECTURAL REVIEW BOARD
§ 34.040 DEFINITIONS.
   The following definitions shall apply to the provisions of this subchapter
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   “ALTERATION.” Any change, addition or modification in construction or any
change in the structural members of a building, such as walls or partitions,
columns, beams or girders, the consummated act of which may be referred to in
this subchapter as “altered” or “reconstructed.” Any actions to change, modify,
reconstruct, remove or demolish any exterior features of an existing accessory
structure. Ordinary maintenance to correct any deterioration, decay or damage
to a structure and to restore the structure as nearly as practicable to an
original state prior to its deterioration, decay, or damage is excluded from
the definition of alteration, provided the work does not involve a change in
type and/or color of buildings materials.
   “APPLICANT.” Any person who applies for an Architectural Review Board Order
in order to undertake construction of an accessory structure in a residentially
zoned area.
   “ARCHITECTURAL CHARACTER.” The architectural style, general design and
general arrangement of the exterior of a building including associated
fixtures.
   “ARCHITECTURAL REVIEW BOARD or BOARD.” The Architectural Review Board of the
city, as created in §
34.041 .
   “ARCHITECTURAL STYLE.” The predominate architectural styles within given
areas where the structure is built/altered as described §
34.043 (B).
   “BOARD ORDER.” The official document issued by the Architectural Review
Board containing the official record of a final action or recommendation on an
application for a review required by the Board in accordance with this
subchapter,
   “CHANGE.” Any new construction, alteration, demolition or removal of other
construction involving any structure subject to the provisions of this
subchapter. “CHANGE” shall not include ordinary maintenance or repair of any
property if no change in material, design, color or outward appearance is
undertaken.
   “CITY.” The City of Crestview Hills.
   “CITY COUNCIL or COUNCIL.” The legislative body of the city.
   “DEMOLITION.” The complete or substantial removal or planned destruction of
any structure subject to Article IX.
   “DETERIORATION.” The impairment of value or usefulness of a structure or
site through action or lack of maintenance or upkeep.
   “EXTERIOR ARCHITECTURAL FEATURE.” A prominent or significant part or element
of a building, structure or site. Features include the architectural style and
general arrangement of the exterior of the structure including building
materials, windows, doors, lights, signs, dry-laid stone fences and other
fixtures appurtenant thereto.
   “FEATURE.” Shall include the style, material, color, height, area and
lighting,
   “LANDSCAPING.” Site modifications subject to Board or Zoning Administrator
review of plant cover or materials.
   “OWNER.” The legal person(s) of record having ownership of a property.
   “ORDINARY MAINTENANCE.” Exterior work which does not involve any change in
material, texture or color, design or, arrangement. Examples include repainting
with the same colon residing a wood building with wood-siding and painting the
same color.
   “PDS.” Planning and Development Services of Kenton County.
   “PERSON.” Includes any association, firm, partnership, trust, governmental
body, corporation, organization, as well as an individual.
   “SITE.” Any space or ground within the application area, including ground
adjacent to structures.
(Ord. 2018-04-01, passed 5-10-18)
§ 34.041 ARCHITECTURAL REVIEW BOARD; PURPOSE MEMBERSHIP, AND OPERATION.
   (A)   There is hereby created an architectural review board for the city,
which shall review accessory structures in all single-family residential zones
as proscribed in Article IX, Section 9.18(C) of the city's Zoning Ordinance.
   (B)   Purpose.
      (1)   The purpose of the Board shall be to review all applications for
the installation of outdoor entertainment buildings and ensure the preservation
of the architectural character of the neighborhood and economic vitality of the
city's residential zones.
      (2)   The duties of the Board shall be accomplished through the review of
construction, alteration, and maintenance of outdoor entertainment buildings;
to preserve the architectural features and characteristics of the neighborhood;
and to recommend legislation designed to promote these purposes.
   (C)   Establishment; members.
      (1)   The Board shall consist of five voting members appointed by the
Mayor and approved by the City Council. A majority of the Board shall
constitute a quorum for the purpose of conducting business.
      (2)   Membership of the Board may consist of one or a combination of the
following:
         (a)   A person knowledgeable in residential real estate.
         (b)   A person who maintains his or her personal residence within an
area in which outdoor entertainment buildings are permitted.
         (c)   A person knowledgeable in residential design, landscape,
architecture or other related fields.
         (d)   A person who has architectural training or who has had extensive
building or building inspection experience.
         (e)   A person who works in the construction industry.
      (3)   At least two members should be from professions of architecture,
landscape architecture, planning, or related disciplines.
      (4)   Members shall serve without compensation, unless otherwise provided
by Council.
   (D)   Terms of office. Each member shall hold office from the date of his or
her appointment for a term of four (4) years. Any member may continue in office
after his or her term expires until an appointed successor takes office, or
until sixty (60) days have elapsed, whichever occurs first. No member shall
serve more than two (2) consecutive four (4) year terms.
   (E)   Vacancies. All vacancies created by the expiration of the terms,
resignations, or other means shall be filled in accordance with the
requirements of division (D) above. In the event the requirements of division
(D) cannot be met the Mayor may fill vacancies as he deems appropriate.
Vacancies shall be filled within sixty (60) days. A member appointed to fill a
vacancy shall serve out the term of the previous member.
   (F)   Rules of procedure and guidelines. The Board shall establish its rules
of procedure and guidelines with approval from City Council.
   (G)   Election of officers. By a simple majority of the voting members
present, the Board shall elect a Chair and Vice-Chair at the first meeting of
each year. If either officer position becomes vacant for any reason, the Board
shall, at its next meeting, elect a member to serve as Chair or Vice-Chair for
the remainder of the year.
   (H)   Meetings. The Board shall hold meetings as needed to review and render
decisions on applications coming before it. The Board shall hold a public
hearing on each application. All meetings of the Board shall comply with all
requirements of the Kentucky Open Meetings Act.
   (I)   Duties. The Board shall have the following duties:
      (1)   Review and act upon all applications as required by this
subchapter.
      (2)   Provide a written annual report to the City Council that will
address the activities of the previous calendar year. The annual report shall
include the number of cases reviewed, the number of cases approved in one
meeting, the number of cases approved after one or more deferrals, and the
number of cases denied. The report shall also include a summary of any notable
cases or other issues addressed by the Board during the previous calendar year.
The annual report shall be kept on file and available for inspection.
   (J)   Duties of officers. The Board officers shall have the following
duties:
      (1)   Chair. The Chair shall preside over all meetings at which he/she is
present and shall sign all official correspondence, including minutes, of the
Board unless otherwise designating the responsibilities to the Vice-Chair. The
Chair shall serve as the primary liaison to city staff and, as necessary, shall
represent or appoint another Board member to represent the Board before the
City Council or other boards and commissions.
      (2)   Vice-Chair. The Vice-Chair shall discharge the duties of the Chair
during the absence or disability of the Chairman.
(Ord. 2018-04-01, passed 5-10-18)
§ 34.042 BOARD ORDER PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Scope and applicability. No building permit shall be issued by PDS for
any proposal which is subject to Board review unless a Board order has been
issued in accordance with the requirements of this subchapter.
   (B)   Board order requirements. A Board order shall be required for the
following:
      (1)   A property owner application for construction of a new outdoor
entertainment building.
      (2)   A property owner application to alter an existing outdoor
entertainment building.
      (3)   A property owner application to expand an existing outdoor
entertainment building.
   (C)   Application, Applications for review by the Board shall be filed on
forms provided by the city. In conducting its inquiry and review, the city and/
or Board may request from the applicant any additional information, sketches
and data, as it shall reasonably require in making a determination.
   (D)   Application for Board order.
      (1)   Upon application for a Board order, the Board shall schedule a
public hearing on the application.
      (2)   The Board shall mail or cause to have notices mailed setting forth
the date, time and place of the hearing to the owner(s) or any person having a
legal or equitable interest in the property, adjoining property owners, and to
all other owners within 300 feet of the subject property not less than seven
(7) days prior to the hearing.
      (3)   The Board shall consider the application, plans, and specifications
and render its determination in accordance with the requirements of this
subchapter within sixty (60) days after receiving a complete application.
   (E)   Decisions.
      (1)   A Board order shall require approval by a majority vote of a quorum
of members. The Board shall provide written notice to the applicant stating the
grounds for its decision.
      (2)   The Board shall keep a record of its proceedings, including copies
of information, sketches, and data needed to clarify the record or any
amendment to it. The Board in its consideration may require any additional
materials it deems necessary to evaluate the application's conformance with §
34.043.
      (3)   The Board may consider the advice of those consultants whose
opinion is sought by the Board with respect to any application for a Board
order.
   (F)   Period of validity.
      (1)   A Board order shall be valid for a one (1) year from the date of
final approval by the Board. The Board order shall become null and void unless
the construction or other action authorized by the decision has been started
within one (1) year after the final approval is granted and is being carried
forward to completion or occupancy of land, site, or buildings.
      (2)   The Board may approve one six (6) month extension of the final
approval upon written application prior to the expiration date of the approval.
The extension may be granted provided the Board finds that the reasons for the
extension were beyond the immediate control of the applicant.
      (3)   If a Board order expires, a new application shall be required.
   (G)   Conditions. In making any decision provided for in this section, the
Board may attach any conditions regarding the location, character, and other
features of the application, as it may deem reasonable to ensure that
applicable standards of review for the decision are met. Conditions attached
shall be stated in the motion for approval, including the reasons for each
condition imposed.
   (H)   Administrative modifications.
      (1)   The Zoning Administrator, in administering the Board order, may
authorize minor plan modifications to building layouts, lighting, and other
building and site-related improvements that are required to correct any
undetected errors or to address changes to the site made necessary during
construction, provided the modifications remain consistent with the purpose of
the Board order.
      (2)   No modifications shall be made that increases the permitted size of
the building or make any change to a permitted conditional use.
      (3)   Modifications deemed minor may include such changes as:
         (a)   Minor adjustments in the location of the building provided the
perimeter setbacks, yards and buffers are maintained;
         (b)   Substitution of landscaping materials specified in the landscape
plan with comparable materials of an equal or greater size;
         (c)   Redesigning and/or relocating stormwater management facilities
provided that general character and stormwater capacities are maintained;
         (d)   Redesigning and/or relocated landscaping, provided that the same
level and quality of screening is maintained;
         (e)   Minor changes in building material or colors that are similar to
and have the same general appearance comparable to or of a higher quality as
the material approved by the Board order.
         (f)   Other minor modifications deemed by the Administrator that do
not alter the basic design or any specific conditions imposed as part of the
original approval, or are a minimal structural modification necessary to
protect the structure due to acts of God prior to a Board review.
         (g)   The Zoning Administrator shall report approved modifications to
the Board. The Administrator may submit any modification to the Board that
might otherwise be considered minor if the administrator finds that the overall
extent and effect of the proposed modification should be reviewed by the Board.
(Ord. 2018-04-01, passed 5-10-18)
§ 34.043 BOARD ORDER STANDARDS OF REVIEW.
   (A)   A Board order as required in §
34.042. shall be approved only after a finding by the Board that the review
standards of this section have been satisfied. All applications that comply
with the review standards shall be approved by the Board.
   (B)   General review standards. The following general review standards shall
be met by every application prior to approval of a Board order.
      (1)   The Board shall determine whether the request will be appropriate
to the architectural character of the home and neighborhood.
      (2)   Decisions of the Board shall:
         (a)   Improve the quality of life in the city and achieve the spirit
and purpose of this subchapter as described in §
34.041.
         (b)   Consider the protection of property values in order to further
the city's goals of sound economic and community development; and
         (c)   Consider the standards and recommendations set forth by the
Board.
      (3)   General character.
         (a)   The design of new structures and of additions to existing
structures, including new site improvements, should compliment the home, and
design review may take into account the architectural style, general design,
arrangement, texture, materials, and color of the home and other structures in
the neighborhood.
         (b)   Where changes have taken place in the course of time as evidence
of the history and development of adjacent or nearby buildings, structures or
sites, and if these changes are deemed to have acquired significance and would
be compromised by the proposed new building, then this significance may be
recognized and respected in the design of the new building.
      (4)   Architectural style. There are a number of intermixes of
architectural styles, as well as a larger number of buildings of such modest
nature or so extensively remodeled to effectively lose all architectural
importance. It is with reference to the basic architectural character of the
key buildings noted above that the need for compatibility in the construction
of the outdoor entertainment building. Compatibility does not infer imitation,
but rather an appropriate design in terms of scale, building materials, and
detail. The architectural character of the home and neighborhood consists
mainly of the following themes:
         (a)   Residential buildings with exterior construction of brick,
stone, and stucco. Predominate styles are split level, tudor, colonial and mid-
century modern.
         (b)   Residential buildings of brick facades with siding trim, one (1)
to two (2) stories, mainly of the era 1950 through 1970.
      (5)   Massing and building form. Massing of outdoor entertainment
buildings shall be generally similar to the main structure and adjacent nearby
homes. Building forms should generally reflect those of the architectural style
of primary structure. Window to wall ratios should be appropriate to the type
and use of building constructed.
      (6)   Color. Traditional colors and combinations of those colors that
compliment the home or other adjacent structures should be used for exteriors
for all new buildings, and reconstruction, remodeling, and exterior maintenance
of existing outdoor entertainment buildings. Fluorescent or luminescent colors
are prohibited.
      (7)   Landscaping. The landscape design of the site should be consistent
with the overall architectural character of the structures on the site. Plant
material and methods for installation shall be selected respecting the nature
of the urban environment and the survivability and diversity of the plan
species. Non-plant material shall be of a type associated with the origin or
era in which the structure was originally built.
   (C)   Alterations to buildings, structure, and site. In addition to the
general review standards, the following standards shall be met by applicants
for alterations to existing buildings prior to approval of Board order or
building permit:
      (1)   The alteration shall conform to the distinguishing, original
exterior qualities or character of the building, its site, and its environment.
      (2)   The distinguishing original qualities or character of the outdoor
entertainment building shall not be destroyed.
      (3)   Distinctive stylistic features or examples of skilled
craftsmanship, which characterize a building, structure, or site, shall be
considered in the outdoor entertainment building.
      (4)   The surface cleaning of structures, if provided as part of the
application, shall be undertaken with methods designed to minimize damage.
   (D)   Additions to existing outdoor entertainment buildings. In addition to
the general review standards, the following shall be met by applicants for
additions to existing outdoor entertainment buildings prior to approval of a
Board order.
      (1)   Materials for additions should be in keeping with the exiting
outdoor entertainment building, and should match, or be compatible with those
of the main home.
      (2)   Contemporary design for additions to existing outdoor entertainment
buildings shall be discouraged. Roofline additions are discouraged or should be
placed and designed to have the least amount of visual impact.
      (3)   Additions should be indistinguishable from the original structure.
The intent of an addition should be that if the additions or alterations were
removed the essential form and integrity of the original structure would be
unimpaired.
(Ord. 2018-04-01, passed 5-10-18)
§ 34.044 FAILURE TO MAINTAIN.
   The owner of an outdoor entertainment building shall provide sufficient and
reasonable care, maintenance and upkeep appropriate to ensure any building's
upkeep and to prevent its destruction by deterioration. Any landscaping or
other site element shall also be properly maintained in a safe and functional
condition, and be maintained to ensure its value. This provision shall be in
addition to all other applicable code provisions. By resolution the
Architectural Review Board may present evidence of a violation to the city for
appropriate action.
(Ord. 2018-04-01, passed 5-10-18)
§ 34.045 ORDINARY MAINTENANCE.
   Nothing in the subchapter shall be construed to prevent any ordinary
maintenance or repair of an exterior architectural feature now or hereafter
which involves no change in material, design, arrangement, texture or color:
nor shall anything in this subchapter be construed to prevent the construction,
reconstruction, alteration, modification, or demolition of any feature which
the Zoning Administrator shall certify, pursuant to appropriate provisions of
city ordinance or state law regarding public safety, as being an unsafe or
dangerous condition.
(Ord. 2018-04-01, passed 5-10-18)
§ 34.046 APPEALS.
   Any applicant aggrieved by a decision of the Board may appeal the decision
to the Board of Adjustment in the same manner as an appeal of a decision of the
Zoning Administrator in accordance with the requirements of Article XVIII,
Section 18.2 of the Crestview Hills Zoning Ordinance. The Board of Adjustment
shall forward a copy of its minutes regarding the appeal decision to the Board.
(Ord. 2018-04-01, passed 5-10-18)
JOINT CODE ENFORCEMENT BOARD
§ 34.060 DEFINITIONS.
   The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this subchapter, shall
have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context
clearly indicates a different meaning:
   “ABATEMENT COSTS.” A city's necessary and reasonable costs for and
associated with clearing, preventing unauthorized entry to, or demolishing ail
or a portion of a structure or premises, or taking any other action with regard
to a structure or premises necessary to remedy a violation and to maintain and
preserve the public health, safety and welfare in accordance with any city
ordinance.
   “CODE ENFORCEMENT OFFICER.” A city police officer, safety officer, citation
officer, or other public law enforcement officer with the authority to issue a
citation.
   “FINAL ORDER.” Any order:
      (1)   Issued by the code enforcement board following a hearing in
accordance with §
34.066(E) of this subchapter;
      (2)   Created because a violator neither paid nor contested the citation
within seven days as provided in §
34.065(F) of this subchapter; or
      (3)   Created because a violator failed to appear at a hearing the
violator requested to contest the citation as provided in §
34.066(C) of this subchapter.
   “IMMINENT DANGER.” A condition which is likely to cause serious or life-
threatening injury or death at any time.
   “JOINT CODE ENFORCEMENT BOARD.” An administrative body created and acting
under the authority of the Local Government Code Enforcement Board Act, KRS
65.8801 to 65.8839.
   “ORDINANCE.” An official action of the local government body, which is a
regulation of a general and permanent nature and enforceable as a local law and
shall include any provision of a code of ordinances adopted by the city
legislative body which embodies all or part of an subchapter.
   “OWNER.” A person, association, corporation, partnership or other legal
entity having a legal or equitable title in real property.
   “PREMISES.” A lot, plot or parcel of land, including any structures upon it.
(Ord. 2017-08-01, passed 9-14-17)
§ 34.061 CREATION AND MEMBERSHIP.
   (A)   Pursuant to KRS 65.8811(1)(b), the City of Crestview Hills
participates in a Joint Code Enforcement Board through an interlocal agreement
executed with other participating city and county members. This Joint Code
Enforcement Board shall operate in lieu of a City Code Enforcement Board, and
have jurisdiction and authority throughout the City of Crestview Hills in the
same manner as a City Code Enforcement Board created under KRS 65.8811(1)(a).
   (B)   The city's representation on the Joint Code Enforcement Board is
established through the interlocal agreement with the participating cities and/
or Kenton County, and any and all amendments to the interlocal agreement. The
city shall appoint one member, and two (2) alternate members to the Kenton
County Joint Code Enforcement Board. All appointments shall be made by the
Mayor, with approval of the City Council. Members of the Kenton County Joint
Code Enforcement Board shall serve consistent with the provisions of the
interlocal agreement.
   (C)   All appointments to the Kenton County Joint Code Enforcement Board
shall be for a term of three (3) years. Upon expiration of a term, a member or
alternate member may be re-appointed by the Mayor, with approval by the City
Council.
   (D)   Each member and alternate member appointed by the City of Crestview
Hills to the Kenton County Joint Code Enforcement Board shall have resided
within the boundaries of the City of Crestview Hills for a period of at least
one (1) year prior to the date of the member's appointment, and shall reside
there throughout the term in office.
   (E)   In the event that the appointed member of the City of Crestview Hills
vacates his/her membership on the Kenton County Joint Code Enforcement Board,
the city shall, following the procedures in KRS 65.8811, fill the vacancy
within sixty (60) days. If the Mayor has not filled the vacancy within sixty
(60) days, then the remaining member of the Kenton County Joint Code
Enforcement Board shall fill the vacancy with another person who meets the
qualifications in KRS 65.8811. All vacancies shall be filled for the remainder
of the unexpired term.
   (F)   Any member or alternate member appointed by the Mayor to the Kenton
County Joint Code Enforcement Board, pursuant to KRS 65.8811, may be removed by
the Mayor for misconduct, inefficiency, or willful neglect of duty. In the
event of removal, the Mayor shall submit a written statement to the member
subject to removal, and to the City Council, setting forth the reasons for
removal. The member so removed shall have the right to appeal the removal to
the Kenton County Circuit Court.
   (G)   Any member or alternate member shall, prior to entering their duties,
take the oath of office prescribed by Section 228 of the Kentucky Constitution.
   (H)   The members of the Kenton County Joint Code Enforcement Board may be
compensated or reimbursed per the terms of the interlocal agreement, and its
amendments.
   (I)   No member or alternate member appointed by the City to the Kenton
County Joint Code Enforcement Board shall hold any elected or appointed office,
whether paid or unpaid, or any position of employment with the City of
Crestview Hills.
   (J)   A copy of the governing interlocal agreement shall be maintained in
the Office of the City Clerk for inspection by the public.
(Ord. 2017-08-01, passed 9-14-17)
§ 34.062 ENFORCEMENT POWERS.
   (A)   The Code Enforcement Board shall have the power to issue remedial
orders and impose civil fines as a method of enforcing city ordinances when a
violation of the ordinance has been classified as a civil offense.
   (B)   The Code Enforcement Board shall not have the authority to enforce any
ordinance regulating conduct which would also, under any provision of the
Kentucky Revised Statutes, constitute a criminal offense or a moving motor
vehicle offense.
(Ord. 2017-08-01, passed 9-14-17)
§ 34.063 APPOINTMENT OF MEMBERS; TERM OF OFFICE; REMOVAL FROM OFFICE; OATH;
COMPENSATION; ORGANIZATION OF BOARD; MEETINGS; QUORUM; CONFLICT OF INTEREST;
MINUTES AND RECORDS.
   Membership, oath and terms of office, quorum, vacancies, removal of members,
and other statutory requirements related to the Board's activities shall be as
stated in the Local Government Code Enforcement Board Act and as set forth by
the interlocal agreement for the Kenton County Joint Code Enforcement Board
(hereinafter “interlocal agreement”) filed of record with the Kenton County
Clerk in Book C5439, Page 321 as incorporated by reference as set forth herein.
(Ord. 2017-08-01, passed 9-14-17)
§ 34.064 CONFLICT OF INTEREST.
   Any member of the Code Enforcement Board who has any direct or indirect
financial or personal interest in any matter to be decided shall disclose the
nature of the interest, shall disqualify himself from voting on the matter in
which he has an interest, and shall not be counted for purposes of establishing
a quorum.
(Ord. 2017-08-01, passed 9-14-17)
§ 34.065 POWERS OF THE CODE ENFORCEMENT BOARD.
   The Kenton County Joint Code Enforcement Board shall have the powers and
duties as set forth by the interlocal agreement for the Kenton County Joint
Code Enforcement Board filed of record with the Kenton County Clerk in Book
C5439, Page 321 as incorporated by reference as set forth herein.
(Ord. 2017-08-01, passed 9-14-17)
§ 34.066   ENFORCEMENT PROCEEDINGS.
   The following requirements shall govern all enforcement proceedings before
the Code Enforcement Board:
   (A)   Enforcement proceedings shall only be initiated by the issuance of a
citation by a code enforcement officer.
   (B)   Except when immediate action is necessary pursuant to §
34.074 of this subchapter, if a code enforcement officer believes, based on his
personal observation or investigation, that a person has violated a city
ordinance, he shall issue a notice of violation allowing the alleged violator a
specified period of time to remedy the violation without incurring a fine. If
the alleged violator fails or refuses to remedy the violation within the time
specified, the code enforcement officer is authorized to issue a citation.
   (C)   The code enforcement officer shall issue a citation by one of the
following methods:
      (1)   Personal service to the alleged violator;
      (2)   Leaving a copy of the citation with any person eighteen (18) years
of age or older who is on the premises, if the alleged violator is not on the
premises at the time the citation is issued; or
      (3)   Mailing a copy of the citation by regular first-class mail to the
last known recorded mailing address of the alleged violator; or
      (4)   If, in the exercise of reasonable diligence, the issuance of a
citation using the methods set out in divisions (C)(1), (2), or (3) is not
possible, then the citation is properly served by posting a copy of the
citation in a conspicuous place on the premises.
   (D)   The citation issued by the code enforcement officer shall contain the
following information:
      (1)   The date and time of issuance;
      (2)   The name and address of the person to whom the citation is issued;
      (3)   The physical address of the premises where the violation occurred;
      (4)   The date and time the offense was committed;
      (5)   The facts constituting the offense;
      (6)   The section of the code or the number of the ordinance violated;
      (7)   The name of the code enforcement officer;
      (8)   The civil fine that may be imposed for the violation, including, if
applicable;
         (a)   The civil fine that will be imposed if the person does not
contest the citation; and
         (b)   The maximum civil fine that may be imposed if the person elects
to contest the citation;
      (9)   The procedure for the person to follow in order to pay the civil
fine or to contest the citation; and
      (10)   A statement that if the person fails to pay the civil fine set
forth in the citation or contest the citation within the time allowed: the
person shall be deemed to have waived the right to a hearing before the Code
Enforcement Board to contest the citation; the determination that the violation
was committed shall be final; the citation as issued shall be deemed a final
order determining that the violation was committed and imposing the civil fine
as set forth in the citation; and the person shall be deemed to have waived the
right to appeal the final order to District Court.
   (E)   After issuing a citation to an alleged violator, the code enforcement
officer shall notify the Code Enforcement Board by delivering a copy of the
citation to Board Chairman.
   (F)   (1)   The person to whom the citation is issued shall respond to the
citation within seven (7) days of the date of issuance by either paying the
civil fine or requesting, in writing, a hearing to contest the citation. If the
person fails to respond to the citation within seven (7) days, the person shall
be deemed to have waived the right to a hearing and the determination that a
violation was committed shall be considered final. In this event, the citation
as issued shall be deemed a final order determining that the violation was
committed and imposing the civil fine as set forth in the citation, and the
person shall be deemed to have waived the right to appeal the final order to
District Court.
      (2)   Notice of a final order shall be provided to the cited violator by
regular first-class mail; certified mail, return receipt requested; personal
delivery; or by leaving the notice at the person's usual place of residence
with any individual residing therein who is eighteen (18) years of age or older
and who is informed of the contents of the order.
(Ord. 2017-08-01, passed 9-14-17)
§ 34.067 HEARING; NOTICE AND FINAL ORDER.
   (A)   When a hearing has been requested, the Code Enforcement Board or its
administrative staff shall schedule a hearing.
   (B)   Not less than seven (7) days before the date of the hearing, the Code
Enforcement Board shall notify the requester of the date, time, and place of
the hearing. The notice may be given by regular first-class mail; certified
mail, return receipt requested; personal delivery; or by leaving the notice at
the person's usual place of residence with any individual residing therein who
is eighteen (18) years of age or older and who is informed of the contents of
the notice.
   (C)   (1)   Any person requesting a hearing who fails to appear at the time
and place set for the hearing shall be deemed to have waived the right to a
hearing to contest the citation, and the determination that a violation was
committed shall be final. In this event, the citation as issued shall be deemed
a final order determining the violation was committed and imposing the civil
fine set forth in the citation, and the alleged violator shall be deemed to
have waived the right to appeal the final order to District Court.
      (2)   Notice of a final order shall be provided to the cited violator by
regular first-class mail; certified mail, return receipt requested; personal
delivery; or by leaving the notice at the person's usual place of residence
with any individual residing therein who is eighteen (18) years of age or older
and who is informed of the contents of the order.
   (D)   All testimony at the hearing shall be taken under oath and recorded.
Testimony shall be taken from the code enforcement officer, the alleged
violator, and any witnesses to the violation offered by the code enforcement
officer or alleged violator. Formal rules of evidence shall not apply, but
fundamental due process shall be observed and shall govern the proceedings.
   (E)   The Code Enforcement Board shall, based on the evidence, determine
whether a violation was committed, if it is determined that no violation was
committed, an order dismissing the citation shall be entered. If it is
determined that a violation was committed, an order may be issued upholding the
citation. The Board may impose a fine up to the maximum authorized by
ordinance, or require the offender to remedy a continuing violation to avoid a
fine, or both.
   (F)   (1)   Every final order following a hearing shall be reduced to
writing, which shall include the findings and conclusions reached and the date
the order was issued. A copy shall be furnished to the person named in the
citation.
      (2)   If the person named in the citation is not present when the final
order is issued, the order shall be delivered to the person by regular first-
class mail; certified mail, return receipt requested; personal delivery; or by
leaving a copy of the order at the person's usual place of residence with any
individual residing therein who is eighteen (18) years of age or older and who
is informed of the contents of the notice.
(Ord. 2017-08-01, passed 9-14-17)
§ 34.068 PRESENTATION OF CASES.
   Each case before the Code Enforcement Board may be presented by an Attorney
selected by the city, a code enforcement officer for the city, or by a member
of the city's administrative staff. The City Attorney may either be counsel to
the Code Enforcement Board or may present cases before the Code Enforcement
Board, but shall in no case serve in both capacities.
(Ord. 2017-08-01, passed 9-14-17)
§ 34.069 APPEALS; FINAL JUDGMENT.
   (A)   An appeal from a final order of a Code Enforcement Board following a
hearing conducted pursuant to §
34.067(E) of this subchapter may be made to the Kenton County District Court
within thirty (30) days of the date the order is issued. The appeal shall be
initiated by the filing of a complaint and a copy of the final order in the
same manner as any civil action under the Kentucky Rules of Civil Procedure.
   (B)   If no appeal from a final order of the Code Enforcement Board is filed
within the time period set in division (A) of this section, the Code
Enforcement Board's order shall be deemed final for all purposes.
(Ord. 2017-08-01, passed 9-14-17)
§ 34.070 ORDINANCE FINE SCHEDULE.
   Violations of ordinances that are enforced by the Kenton County Joint Code
Enforcement Board shall be subject to the schedule of civil fines as set forth
by separate ordinance.
(Ord. 2017-08-01, passed 9-14-17)
§ 34.071   LIEN; FINES, CHARGES, AND FEES.
   (A)   The City of Crestview Hills delegates the Kenton County Joint Code
Enforcement Board to prepare and record liens on its behalf.
   (B)   The city shall possess a lien on property owned by the person found by
a non-appealable final order as defined by §
34.060(D) of this subchapter, or by a final judgment of the court, to have
committed a violation of a city ordinance. The lien shall be for all civil
fines assessed for the violation and for all charges and fees incurred by the
city in connection with the enforcement of the ordinance, including abatement
costs. An affidavit of the code enforcement officer shall constitute prima
facie evidence of the amount of the lien and regularity of the proceedings
pursuant to KRS 65.8801 to 65.8839.
   (C)   The lien shall be recorded in the Office of the County Clerk. The lien
shall be notice to all persons from the time of its recording and shall bear
interest until paid. The lien shall continue for ten (10) years following the
date of the non-appealable final order or final court judgment.
   (D)   Subject to §
34.073 of this chapter, the lien shall take precedence over all other liens,
except state, county, school board, and city taxes, and may be enforced by
judicial proceedings, including a foreclosure action.
   (E)   In addition to the remedy prescribed in division (A) of this section,
the person found to have committed the violation shall be personally
responsible for the amount of all civil fines assessed for the violation and
for all charges, fees and abatement costs incurred by the city in connection
with the enforcement of the ordinance. The city may bring a civil action
against the person and shall have the same remedies as provided for the
recovery of a debt.
(Ord. 2017-08-01, passed 9-14-17)
§ 34.072   LIENHOLDER NOTIFICATION SYSTEM.
   The Kenton County Joint Code Enforcement Board shall establish and maintain
a lienholder notification system on behalf of the City of Crestview Hills. The
Kenton County Joint Code Enforcement Board shall obtain and maintain priority
over previously filed liens, as provided in §
34.071 of this subchapter, in accordance with the following provisions:
   (A)   Individuals and entities, including but not limited to lienholders,
may register with the Kenton County Joint Code Enforcement Board to receive
electronic notification of final orders entered pursuant to this subchapter.
   (B)   In order to receive the notification, the registration shall submit
the following information to the code enforcement staff:
      (2)   Mailing address;
      (3)   Phone number; and
      (4)   Electronic mailing address.
   (C)   A registrant may use the electronic form provided on the Kenton County
Joint Code Enforcement Board's website to submit the information required by
division (B) of this section. It shall be the responsibility of the registrant
to maintain and update the required contact information with the Kenton County
Joint Code Enforcement Board. The Kenton County Joint Code Enforcement Board
shall inform a registrant of any evidence received that the electronic mailing
address is invalid or not functional so that the registrant may provide and
updated electronic mailing address.
   (D)   Once per week the Kenton County Joint Code Enforcement Board shall
send electronic mail notification of all final orders entered pursuant to this
chapter since the last date of notification to each party registered pursuant
to this section. The notification shall provide an electronic link to the
Kenton County joint code enforcement database located on the Kenton County
Joint Code Enforcement Board website. The database shall include the following
information regarding each final order:
      (1)   The name of the person charged with a violation;
      (2)   The physical address of the premises where the violation occurred;
      (3)   The last known mailing address for the owner of the premises where
the violation occurred if, in the exercise of reasonable diligence, it is
ascertainable;
      (4)   A copy of the full citation;
      (5)   A copy of the full final order; and
      (6)   The status of the final order regarding its ability to be appealed
pursuant to this ordinance.
   (E)   If an appeal is filed on a final order pursuant to this subchapter,
the Kenton County Joint Enforcement Board shall send electronic mail
notification to all registrants.
   (F)   The Kenton County Joint Code Enforcement Board shall update its code
enforcement database to reflect the issued final order, and shall post this
notification required by division (D) of this section containing an updated
link to the code enforcement database in a conspicuous space on the Kenton
County Joint Code Enforcement website, at the same time that it provides the
electronic notification.
   (G)   The Kenton County Joint Code Enforcement Board shall maintain the
records created under this section for ten (10) years following their issuance.
(Ord. 2017-08-01, passed 9-14-17)
§ 34.073 LIENS.
   (A)   A lienholder of record who has registered pursuant to §
34.072(B) of this subchapter may, within forty-five (45) days from the date of
issuance of notification under §
34.072(D) of this subchapter:
      (1)   Correct the violation, if it has not already been abated; or
      (2)   Pay all civil fines assessed for the violation, and all charges and
fees incurred by the city in connection with enforcement of the subchapter,
including abatement costs.
   (B)   Nothing in this section shall prohibit the city from taking immediate
action if necessary under §
34.074 of this subchapter.
   (C)   The lien provided by §
34.071 of this subchapter shall not take precedence over previously recorded
liens if:
      (1)   The city failed to comply with the requirements of §
34.072 of this ordinance for notification of the final order; or
      (2)   A prior lienholder complied with division (A) of this section.
   (D)   A lien that does not take precedence over previously recorded liens
under division (C) of this section shall, if the final order remains partially
unsatisfied, continue to take precedence over all other subsequent liens except
liens for state, county, school board and city taxes.
   (E)   The city may record a lien before the forty-five (45) day period
established in division (A) of this section expires. If the lien is fully
satisfied prior to the expiration of the forty-five (45) day period, the city
shall release the lien in the County Clerk's Office where the lien is recorded
within fifteen (15) days of satisfaction.
   (F)   Failure of the city to comply with §
34.072 and this section of this subchapter, or failure of a lien to take
precedence over previously filed liens as provided in division (C) of this
section, shall not limit or restrict any other remedies the city has against
the property of the violator.
(Ord. 2017-08-01, passed 9-14-17)
§ 34.074   IMMEDIATE ACTION.
   Nothing in this subchapter shall prohibit the city from taking immediate
action to remedy a violation of its ordinances when there is reason to believe
that the violation presents a serious threat to the public health, safety, and
welfare, or if in the absence of immediate action, the effects of the violation
will be irreparable or irreversible.
(Ord. 2017-08-01, passed 9-14-17)
§ 34.075   PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to conform to all provisions of KRS
65.8801 through 65.8839, commonly known as the “Local Government Code
Enforcement Boards Act” and any subsequent amendments thereto.
(Ord. 2017-08-01, passed 9-14-17)
CHAPTER 35: CODE OF ETHICS
Section
General Provisions
   
35.01   Title
   
35.02   Findings
   
35.03   Definitions
Standards of Conduct
   
35.20   Conflicts of interest in general
   
35.21   Receipt of gifts
   
35.22   Use of city property, equipment and personnel
   
35.23   Representation of interests before city government
   
35.24   Misuse of confidential information
Financial Disclosure
   
35.35   Who must file
   
35.36   When to file statements; amended statements
   
35.37   Form of the statement of financial interests
   
35.38   Control and maintenance of the statements of financial interests
   
35.39   Contents of the financial interests statement
   
35.40   Noncompliance with filing requirement
Nepotism
   
35.50   Nepotism prohibited.
Enforcement
   
35.60   Board of Ethics created
   
35.61   Facilities and staff
   
35.62   Power and duties of the Board of Ethics
   
35.63   Filing and investigation of complaints
   
35.64   Notice of hearings
   
35.65   Hearing procedure
   
35.66   Appeals
   
35.67   Limitation of actions
   
35.68   Reprisals against persons disclosing violations prohibited
 
   
35.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 35.01 TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the "City of Crestview Hills
Code of Ethics".
(Ord. 1994-12-1, passed 12-8-94)
§ 35.02 FINDINGS.
   The City Council finds and declares that KRS 65.003 requires the City
Council of each city in Kentucky to adopt a code of ethics prior to January 1,
1995, and this chapter is in conformity with that legislative mandate.
(Ord. 1994-12-1, passed 12-8-94)
§ 35.03 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   "BOARD OF ETHICS." The City of Crestview Hills Board of Ethics which is
created and vested by this chapter with the responsibility of enforcing the
requirements of the city's code of ethics.
   "BUSINESS." Any corporation, partnership, sole proprietorship, firm,
enterprise, franchise, association, organization, self-employed individual,
holding company, joint stock company, receivership, trust, professional service
corporation, or any legal entity through which business is conducted for
profit.
   "CANDIDATE." Any individual who seeks nomination or election to a city
office. An individual is a candidate when the individual files a notification
and declaration for nomination for office with the County Clerk or Secretary of
State, or is nominated for office by a political party, or files a declaration
of intent to be a write-in candidate with the county clerk or secretary of
state.
   "CITY." Refers to the City of Crestview Hills, Kentucky.
   "CITY AGENCY." Any board, commission, authority, nonstock corporation, or
other entity created, either individually or jointly, by this city.
   "EMPLOYEE." Any paid person, whether full-time or part-time, who is employed
by the city. The term "EMPLOYEE" shall not include any contractor or
subcontractor or any of their employees.
   "FAMILY MEMBER." A spouse, or child.
   "IMMEDIATE FAMILY MEMBER." A spouse, or an unemancipated child residing in
the officer's or employee's household.
   "OFFICER." Any person, whether full-time or part-time, and whether paid or
unpaid, who is one of the following:
      (1)   The Mayor.
      (2)   A City Council member.
      (3)   The City Clerk.
      (4)   The City Administrator.
      (5)   A member of the governing body of any city agency who has been
appointed to the governing body of an agency by the city.
      (6)   City Treasurer.
(Ord. 1994-12-1, passed 12-8-94)
STANDARDS OF CONDUCT
§ 35.20 CONFLICTS OF INTEREST IN GENERAL.
   Every officer and employee of the city and every city agency shall comply
with the following standards of conduct.
   (A)   No officer or employee, or any immediate family member of any officer
or employee, shall have an interest in a business or engage in any business,
transaction, or activity, which is in substantial conflict with the proper
discharge of the officer's or employee's public duties.
   (B)   No officer or employee shall intentionally use or attempt to use his
or her official position with the city to secure unwarranted privileges or
advantages for himself or herself or others.
   (C)   No officer or employee shall intentionally take or refrain from taking
any discretionary action, or agree to take or refrain from taking any
discretionary action, or induce or attempt to induce any other officer or
employee to take or refrain from taking any discretionary action, on any matter
before the city in order to obtain a financial benefit for any of the
following:
      (1)   The officer or employee.
      (2)   A family member.
      (3)   An outside employer.
      (4)   Any business in which the officer or employee, or any family member
has a substantial financial interest.
      (5)   Any business with which the officer or employee or any family
member is negotiating or seeking prospective employment or other business or
professional relationship.
   (D)   No officer or employee shall be deemed in violation of any provision
in this section if, by reason of the officer's or employee's participation,
vote, decision, action or inaction, no financial benefit accrues to the officer
or employee, a family member, an outside employer, or a business as defined in
division (C) (4) and (C) (5) of this section, as a member of any business,
occupation, profession, or other group, to any greater extent than any gain
could reasonably be expected to accrue to any other member of the business,
occupation, profession, or other group.
(Ord. 1994-12-1, passed 12-8-94)    Penalty, see §
35.99
§ 35.21 RECEIPT OF GIFTS.
   (A)   No officer or employee of the city or any city agency shall directly,
or indirectly through any other person or business, solicit any gift whether in
the form of money, service, loan, travel, entertainment, hospitality, thing or
promise, or any other form, under circumstances in which it could reasonably be
inferred that the solicitation was intended to influence, or could reasonably
be expected to influence the officer or employee in the performance of his or
her public duties.
   (B)   No officer or employee of the city or any city agency shall directly,
or indirectly through any other person or business, accept any gift having a
fair market value of more than two hundred fifty dollars ($250), whether in the
form of money, service, loan, travel, entertainment, hospitality, thing or
promise, or any other form, under circumstances in which it could reasonably be
inferred that the gift was intended to influence, or could reasonably be
expected to influence the officer or employee in the performance of his or her
public duties.
(Ord. 1994-12-1, passed 12-8-94)   Penalty, see §
35.99
§ 35.22 USE OF CITY PROPERTY, EQUIPMENT AND PERSONNEL.
   (A)   No officer or employee of the city shall use or permit the use of any
city time, funds, personnel, equipment, or other personal or real property for
the private use of any person, unless the use is specifically authorized by a
stated city policy.
(Ord. 1994-12-1, passed 12-8-94) Penalty, see §
35.99
§ 35.23 REPRESENTATION OF INTERESTS BEFORE CITY GOVERNMENT.
   (A)   No officer or employee of the city or any city agency shall represent
any person or business, other than the city, in connection with any cause,
proceeding, application or other matter pending before the city or any city
agency.
   (B)   Nothing in this section shall prohibit an employee from representing
another employee or employees where the representation is within the context of
official labor union or similar representational responsibilities.
   (C)   Nothing in this section shall prohibit any officer or employee from
representing himself or herself in matters concerning his or her own interests.
   (D)   No elected officer shall be prohibited by this section from making any
inquiry for information on behalf of a constituent, if no compensation, reward
or other thing of value is promised to, given to, or accepted by the officer,
whether directly or indirectly, in return for the inquiry.
(Ord. 1994-12-1, passed 12-8-94) Penalty, see §
35.99
§ 35.24 MISUSE OF CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION.
   (A)   No officer or employee of the city or any city agency shall
intentionally use or disclose information acquired in the course of his or her
official duties, if the primary purpose of the use or disclosure is to further
his or her personal financial interest or that of another person or business.
Information shall be deemed confidential if it is not subject to disclosure
pursuant to the Kentucky Open Records Act, KRS 61.872 to 61.884, at the time of
its use or disclosure.
   (B)   No elected official shall accept or be eligible to accept an appointed
administrative position or job with the city until the expiration of two (2)
years from his last date of service as an elected official.
(Ord. 1994-12-1, passed 12-8-94)    Penalty, see §
35.99
FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE
§ 35.35 WHO MUST FILE.
   The following classes of officers the city shall file an annual statement of
financial interests with the Board of Ethics:
   (A)   Elected city officials.
   (B)   Candidates for elected city office.
(Ord. 1994-12-1, passed 12-8-94)
§ 35.36 WHEN TO FILE STATEMENTS; AMENDED STATEMENTS.
   (A)   The initial statement of financial interests required by this section
shall be filed with the Board of Ethics, or the administrative official
designated as the custodian of its records by the Board of Ethics, no later
than 4:00 p.m. April 15, 1995. All subsequent statements of financial interest
shall be filed no later than 4:00 p.m. on April 15 each year, provided that:
      (1)   An officer or employee newly-appointed to fill an office or
position of employment with the city or a city agency shall file his or her
initial statement no later than 60 days after the date of the appointment.
      (2)   A candidate for city office shall file his or her initial statement
no later than 30 days after the date on which the person becomes a candidate
for elected city office.
   (B)   The Board of Ethics may grant a reasonable extension of time for
filing a statement of financial interests for good cause shown.
   (C)   In the event there is a material change in any information contained
in a financial statement that has been filed with the Board, the officer or
employee shall, no later than 30 days after becoming aware of the material
change, file an amended statement with the Board.
(Ord. 1994-12-1, passed 12-8-94)
§ 35.37 FORM OF THE STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL INTERESTS.
   The statement of financial interests shall be filed on a form prescribed by
the Board of Ethics, or the administrative official designated by the Board of
Ethics. The Board, or the designated administrative official, shall deliver a
copy of the form to each officer and employee required to file the statement,
by first class mail or hand delivery, no later than January 30 of each year.
The failure of the Board, or the designated administrative official, to deliver
a copy of the form to any officer or employee shall not relieve the officer or
employee of the obligation to file the statement.
(Ord. 1994-12-1, passed 12-8-94)
§ 35.38 CONTROL AND MAINTENANCE OF THE STATEMENTS OF FINANCIAL INTERESTS.
   (A)   The Board of Ethics shall be the "official custodian" of the
statements of financial interests and shall have control over the maintenance
of the statements of financial interests. The statements of financial interests
shall be maintained by the Board of Ethics, or the administrative official
designated by the Board of Ethics as the custodian, as public documents,
available for public inspection immediately upon filing.
   (B)   A statement of financial interests shall be retained by the Board, or
the designated administrative official, for a period of five (5) years after
filing, provided that:
      (1)   Upon the expiration of three (3) years after a person ceases to be
an officer or employee of the city or a city agency, the Board shall cause to
be destroyed any statements of financial interests or copies of those
statements filed by the person.
      (2)   Upon the expiration of three (3) years after any election at which
a candidate for elected city office was not elected or nominated, the Board
shall cause to be destroyed any statements of financial interests or copies of
those statements filed by the person.
(Ord. 1994-12-1, passed 12-8-94)
§ 35.39 CONTENTS OF THE FINANCIAL INTERESTS STATEMENT.
   (A)   The statement of financial interests shall include the following
information for the preceding calendar year:
      (1)   The name and home address of the filer.
      (2)   The title of the filer's office, or office sought.
      (3)   The occupation of the filer.
      (4)   Information that identifies each source of income of the exceeding
ten thousand dollars ($10,000) during the preceding calendar year, and the
nature of the income (e.g., salary, commission, dividends, retirement fund
distribution, and the like).
      (5)   The name and address of any business that has engaged in any
business transactions with the city during the past three (3) years, or which
is anticipated to engage in any business transactions with the city, in which
the filer or any member of the filer's immediate family had at any time during
the preceding calendar year an interest of ten thousand dollars ($10,000) at
fair market value or five percent (5%) ownership interest or more.
      (6)   A designation as commercial, residential, or rural, and the
location of all real property within the city, other than the filer's primary
residence, in which the filer or spouse had during the preceding calendar year
an interest of ten thousand dollars ($10,000) or more.
   (B)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to require any officer or
employee to disclose any specific dollar amounts nor the names of individual
clients or customers of businesses listed as sources of income.
(Ord. 1994-12-1, passed 12-8-94)
§ 35.40 NONCOMPLIANCE WITH FILING REQUIREMENT.
   (A)   The Board of Ethics, or the designated administrative official, shall
notify by certified mail each person required to file a statement of financial
interests who fails to file the statement by the due date, files an incomplete
statement, or files a statement in a form other than that prescribed by the
Board. The notice shall specify the type of failure or delinquency, shall
establish a date by which the failure or delinquency shall be remedied, and
shall advise the person of the penalties for a violation.
   (B)   Any person who fails or refuses to file the statement or who fails or
refuses to remedy a deficiency in the filing identified in the notice under
division (A) within the time period established in the notice shall be guilty
of a civil offense and shall be subject to a civil fine imposed by the Board in
an amount not to exceed five dollars ($5) per day, up to a maximum total civil
fine of fifty dollars ($50). Any civil fine imposed by the Board under this
section may be recovered by the city in a civil action in the nature of debt if
the offender fails or refuses to pay the penalty within a prescribed period of
time.
(Ord. 1994-12-1, passed 12-8-94)
NEPOTISM
§ 35.50 NEPOTISM PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No officer or employee of the city or a city agency shall advocate,
recommend or cause the:
      (1)   Employment;
      (2)   Appointment;
      (3)   Promotion;
      (4)   Transfer; or
      (5)   Advancement
of a family member to an office or position of employment with the city or a
city agency.
   (B)   No officer or employee of the city shall directly supervise or manage
the work of a family member.
   (C)   No officer or employee shall participate in any action relating to the
employment or discipline of a family member, except that this prohibition shall
not prevent an elected or appointed official from voting on or participating in
the development of a budget which includes compensation for a family member,
provided that the family member is included only as a member of a class of
persons or a group, and the family member benefits to no greater extent than
any other similarly situated member of the class or group.
   (D)   The prohibitions in this section shall not apply to any relationship
or situation that would violate the prohibition, but which existed prior to
January 1, 1995.
(Ord. 1994-12-1, passed 12-8-94)
ENFORCEMENT
§ 35.60 BOARD OF ETHICS CREATED.
   (A)   There is hereby created a Board of Ethics which shall have the
authorities, duties, and responsibilities as set forth in this chapter to
enforce the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   The Board of Ethics shall consist of three (3) members who shall be
appointed by the Mayor, subject to the approval of the City Council. The
initial members of the Board of Ethics shall be appointed within sixty (60)
days of the effective date of this chapter. No member of the Board of Ethics
shall hold any elected or appointed office, whether paid or unpaid, or any
position of employment with the city or any city agency. The members shall
serve for a term of three (3) years, except that with respect to the members
initially appointed, one (1) member shall be appointed for a term of (1) one
year, one (1) member shall be appointed for a term of two (2) years, and one
(1) member shall be appointed for a term of three (3) years. Thereafter, all
appointments shall be for a term of three (3) years. Each member of the Board
of Ethics shall have been a resident of the city for at least one year prior to
the date of the appointment and shall reside in the city throughout the term in
office. The members of the Board of Ethics shall be chosen by virtue of their
known and consistent reputation for integrity and their knowledge of local
government affairs. The members may be re-appointed for any number of
consecutive terms.
   (C)   A member of the Board of Ethics may be removed by the Mayor, subject
to the approval of the Council for misconduct, inability, willful neglect of
duties, or no reason. Before any member of the Board of Ethics is removed from
office under this section, the member shall be afforded the opportunity for a
hearing before the Mayor and the City Council.
   (D)   Vacancies on the Board of Ethics shall be filled within 60 days by the
Mayor, suited to the approval of the Council. If a vacancy is not filled by the
executive authority within 60 days, the remaining members of the Board of
Ethics shall fill the vacancy. All vacancies shall be filled for the remainder
of the unexpired term.
   (E)   Members of the Board of Ethics shall be compensated at the rate of
$100 annually, and at the rate of $25 per meeting after four meetings in any
fiscal year. Members shall be reimbursed for all necessary and reasonable
expenses incurred in the performance of their duties subject to approval by the
legislative body first obtained.
   (F)   The Board of Ethics shall, upon the initial appointment of its
members, and annually thereafter as the first order of business in the first
meeting of each calendar year, elect a chairperson from among the membership.
The chairperson shall be the presiding officer and a full voting member of the
Board. The vice-chairperson shall preside in the absence of the chairperson.
   (G)   Meetings of the Board of Ethics shall be held, as necessary, upon the
call of the chairperson or at the written request of a majority of the members.
   (H)   The presence of two or more members shall constitute a quorum and the
affirmative vote of two or more members shall be necessary for any official
action to be taken. Any member of the Board of Ethics who has a conflict of
interest with respect to any matter to be considered by the Board shall
disclose the nature of the conflict, shall disqualify himself or herself from
voting on the matter, and shall not be counted for purposes of establishing a
quorum.
   (I)   Minutes shall be kept for all proceedings of the Board of Ethics and
the vote of each member on any issue decided by the Board shall be recorded in
the minutes.
(Ord. 1994-12-1, passed 12-8-94)
§ 35.61 FACILITIES AND STAFF.
   Within the limits of the funds appropriated by the City Council in the
annual budget, the city shall provide the Board of Ethics, either directly or
by contract or agreement, with the facilities, materials, supplies, and staff
needed for the conduct of its business.
(Ord. 1994-12-1, passed 12-8-94)
§ 35.62 POWER AND DUTIES OF THE BOARD OF ETHICS.
   The Board of Ethics shall have the following powers and duties:
   (A)   To initiate on its own motion, receive and investigate complaints,
hold hearings, and make findings of fad and determinations with regard to
alleged violations of the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   To issue orders in connection with its investigations and hearings
requiring persons to submit in writing and under oath reports and answers to
questions that are relevant to the proceedings and to order testimony to be
taken by deposition before any individual designated by the Board who has the
power to administer oaths.
   (C)   To administer oaths and to issue orders requiring the attendance and
testimony of witnesses and the production of documentary evidence relating to
an investigation or hearing being conducted by the Board.
   (D)   To refer any information concerning violations of this chapter to the
executive authority of the city or to the city legislative body, the governing
body of any city agency, the county attorney, or other appropriate person or
body, as necessary.
   (E)   To enforce the provisions of this chapter with regard to all officers
and employees of the city and city agencies who are subject to its terms by
issuing appropriate orders and imposing penalties authorized by this chapter.
   (F)   To control and maintain all statements of financial interests that are
required to be filed by this chapter and to insure that the statements are
available for public inspection in accordance with the requirements of this
chapter and the Kentucky Open Records Act.
   (G)   To develop and submit any reports regarding the conduct of its
business that may be required by the executive authority of City Council.
   (H)   To adopt rules and regulations and to take other actions, as
necessary, to implement the provisions of this chapter, provided that the
rules, regulations, and actions are not in conflict with the provisions of this
chapter or any state or federal law.
(Ord. 1994-12-1, passed 12-8-94)
§ 35.63 FILING AND INVESTIGATION OF COMPLAINTS.
   (A)   All complaints alleging any violation of the provisions of this
chapter shall be submitted to the Board of Ethics, or the administrative
official designated by the Board of Ethics. All complaints shall be in writing,
signed by the complainant, and shall meet any other requirements established by
the Board of Ethics. The Board of Ethics shall acknowledge receipt of a
complaint to the complainant within ten working days from the date of receipt.
The Board shall forward within ten (10) working days to each officer or
employee of the city or city agency who is the subject of the complaint a copy
of the complaint and a general statement of the applicable provisions of this
chapter.
   (B)   Within thirty (30) days of the receipt of a proper complaint, the
Board of Ethics shall conduct a preliminary inquiry concerning the allegations
contained in the complaint. The Board shall afford a person who is the subject
of the complaint an opportunity to respond to the allegations in the complaint.
The person shall have the right to be represented by counsel, to appear and be
heard under oath, and to offer evidence in response to the allegations.
   (C)   All proceedings and records relating to a preliminary inquiry being
conducted by the Board of Ethics shall be confidential until a final
determination is made by the Board, except:
      (1)   The Board may turn over to the Commonwealth's attorney or county
attorney evidence which may be used in criminal proceedings.
      (2)   If the alleged violator publicly discloses the existence of a
preliminary inquiry, the Board may publicly confirm the existence of the
inquiry.
   (D)   The Board shall make a determination based on its preliminary inquiry
whether the complaint is within its jurisdiction and, if so, whether it alleges
a minimal factual basis to constitute a violation of this chapter. If the Board
concludes that the complaint is outside of its jurisdiction, frivolous or
without factual basis, the Board shall immediately terminate the inquiry,
reduce the conclusion to writing, and transmit a copy of its decision to the
complainant and to all officers or employees against whom the complaint was
filed.
   (E)   If the Board of Ethics concludes, based upon its preliminary inquiry,
that the complaint is within its jurisdiction and contains allegations
sufficient to establish a minimal factual basis to constitute a violation, the
Board shall notify the officer or employee who is subject of the complaint and
may:
      (1)   Due to mitigating circumstances such as, lack of significant
economic advantage or gain by the officer or employee, lack of economic loss to
the city and its taxpayers, or lack of significant impact on public confidence
in city government issue, in writing, a confidential reprimand to the officer
or employee concerning the alleged violation and provide a copy of the
confidential reprimand to the executive authority and governing body of the
city or city agency.
      (2)   Proceed with a formal hearing.
   (F)   Any person who knowingly files with the Board a false complaint
alleging a violation of any provision of this chapter by an officer or employee
of the city or any city agency shall be guilty of a Class A misdemeanor.
(Ord. 1994-12-1, passed 12-8-94)    Penalty, see §
35.99
§ 35.64 NOTICE OF HEARINGS.
   If the Board of Ethics determines that a hearing regarding allegations
contained in the complaint is necessary, the Board shall issue an order setting
the matter for hearing within thirty (30) days of the date the order is issued,
unless the alleged violator petitions for and the Board consents to a later
date. The order setting the matter for hearing, along with a copy of any
pertinent regulations of the Board relating to the hearing shall be sent to the
alleged violator within twenty-four (24) hours of the time the order setting a
hearing is issued.
(Ord. 1994-12-1, passed 12-8-94)
§ 35.65 HEARING PROCEDURE.
   (A)   The hearings shall be conducted in accordance with this section and in
accordance with any additional rules and regulations adopted by the Board so as
to afford all parties the full range of due process rights required by the
nature of the proceedings.
   (B)   Prior to the commencement of the hearing, the alleged violator, or his
or her representative, shall have a reasonable opportunity to examine all
documents and records obtained or prepared by the Board in connection with the
matter to be heard.
   (C)   All testimony in a Board hearing shall be taken under oath,
administered by the presiding officer. All parties shall have the right to call
and examine witnesses, to introduce exhibits, to cross-examine witnesses, to
submit evidence, and to be represented by counsel. All witnesses shall have the
right to be represented by counsel.
   (D)   All hearings of the Board of Ethics shall be public, unless the
members vote to go into executive session in accordance with KRS 61.810.
   (E)   After the conclusion of the hearing, the Board of Ethics shall, as
soon as practicable, begin deliberations in executive session for the purpose
of reviewing the evidence before it and making a determination whether a
violation of this chapter has been proved. Within thirty (30) days after the
completion of the hearing, the Board shall issue a written report of its
findings and conclusions, and serve the same upon the parties and other
necessary entities.
   (F)   If the Board concludes in its reports that in consideration of the
evidence produced at the hearing there is clear and convincing proof of a
violation of this chapter, the Board may:
      (1)   Issue an order requiring the violator to cease and desist the
violation.
      (2)   In writing, publicly reprimand the violator for the violations and
provide a copy of the reprimand to the executive authority and governing body
of the city or city agency with which the violator serves.
      (3)   In writing, recommend to the executive authority that the violator,
being an appointed officer or employee, be sanctioned as recommended by the
Board, which may include a recommendation for discipline or dismissal, or
removal from office. In writing, recommend to the legislative body that the
violator, being an elected official, be sanctioned as recommended by the Board,
which may include a recommendation for discipline or dismissal, or removal from
office.
      (4)   Issue an order requiring the violator to pay a civil penalty of not
more than $1,000.
      (5)   Refer evidence of criminal violations of this chapter or state laws
to the county attorney or commonwealth's attorney of the jurisdiction for
prosecution.
(Ord. 1994-12-1, passed 12-8-94)
§ 35.66 APPEALS.
   Any person who is found guilty of a violation of any provision of this
chapter by the Board of Ethics may appeal the finding to the circuit court of
the county within 30 days after the date of the final action by the Board of
Ethics by filing a petition with the court against the Board. The Board shall
transmit to the clerk of the court all evidence considered by the Board at the
public hearing.
(Ord. 1994-12-1, passed 12-8-94)
§ 35.67 LIMITATION OF ACTIONS.
   Except when the period of limitation is otherwise established by state law,
an action for a violation of this chapter must be brought within 180 days after
the violation is discovered.
(Ord. 1994-12-1, passed 12-8-94)
§ 35.68 REPRISALS AGAINST PERSONS DISCLOSING VIOLATIONS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No officer or employee of the city or city agency shall subject to
reprisal, or directly or indirectly use, or threaten to use, any official
authority or influence in any manner whatsoever which tends to discourage,
restrain, deter, prevent, interfere with, coerce, or discriminate against any
person who in good faith reports, discloses, divulges, or otherwise brings to
the attention of the Board of Ethics or any other agency or official of the
city or Commonwealth any facts or information relative to an actual or
suspected violation of this chapter.
   (B)   This section shall not be construed as:
      (1)   Prohibiting disciplinary or punitive action if an officer or
employee of the city or any city agency discloses information which he or she
knows:
         (a)   To be false or which he or she discloses with reckless disregard
for its truth or falsity.
         (b)   To be exempt from required disclosure under the provisions of
the Kentucky Open Records Act, KRS 61.870 to 61.884.
         (c)   Is confidential under any other provision of law.
(Ord. 1994-12-1, passed 12-8-94)
§ 35.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Except when another penalty is specifically set forth in this chapter,
any officer or employee of the city or any city agency who is found by the
Board of Ethics to have violated any provision of this chapter shall be deemed
guilty of a civil offense and may be subject to a civil fine imposed by the
Board of Ethics not to exceed $1,000, which may be recovered by the city in a
civil action in the nature of debt if the offender fails to pay the penalty
within a prescribed period of time.
   (B)   In addition to all other penalties which may be imposed under this
chapter, any officer or employee of the city or any city agency who is found by
the Board of Ethics to have violated any provision of this chapter shall
forfeit to the city or the city agency an amount equal to the economic benefit
or gain which the officer or employee is determined by the Board to have
realized as a result of the violation. The amount of any forfeiture may be
recovered by the city in a civil action in the nature of debt, if the offender
fails to pay the amount of the forfeiture within a prescribed period of time.
   (C)   In addition to all other penalties which may be imposed under this
chapter, a finding by the Board of Ethics that an officer or employee of the
city or any city agency is guilty of a violation of this chapter shall be
sufficient cause for removal, suspension, demotion, or other disciplinary
action by the executive authority of the city or city agency, or by any other
officer or agency having the power of removal or discipline. Any action to
remove or discipline any officer or employee for a violation of this chapter
shall be taken in accordance with all applicable ordinances and regulations of
the city and all applicable laws of the Commonwealth.
(Ord. 1994-12-1, passed 12-8-94)
CHAPTER 36: PUBLIC RECORDS
Section
General
   
36.01   Definitions
Procedures for Requesting Public Records
   
36.05   Initial request with immediate inspection
   
36.06   Referral to proper custodian
   
36.07   Public records not immediately available
   
36.08   Refusal of unreasonable requests
   
36.09   Time limitation; denial of inspection
   
36.10   Concealing or destroying records prohibited
   
36.11   Access to records relating to particular individual
   
36.12   Public records protected from disclosure
GENERAL
§ 36.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For purposes of this chapter the following words and phrases shall have the
following meanings ascribed to them respectively.
   “BOOKING PHOTOGRAPH AND PHOTOGRAPHIC RECORD OF INMATE.” A photograph or
image of an individual generated by law enforcement for identification purposes
when the individual is booked into a detention facility as defined in KRS
520.010 or photograph and image of an inmate taken pursuant to KRS 196.099.
   "CITY." The city government of this city.
   "COMMERCIAL PURPOSE." The direct or indirect use of any public record or
records, in any form, for sale, resale, solicitation, rent, or lease of a
service, or any use by which the user expects a profit either through
commission, salary, or fee. "COMMERCIAL PURPOSE" shall not include publication
or related use of a public record by a newspaper or periodical; use of a public
record by a radio or television station in its news or other informational
programs; or use of a public record in the preparation for prosecution or
defense of litigation, or claims settlement by the parties to such action, or
the attorneys representing the parties.
   "CUSTODIAN." The official custodian or any authorized person having personal
custody and control of public records. The "CUSTODIAN" having personal custody
of most of the public records of this city is the City Clerk/Treasurer.
   "OFFICIAL CUSTODIAN." The chief administrative officer or any other officer
or employee of a public agency who is responsible for the maintenance, care,
and keeping of public records, regardless of whether the records are in his
actual personal custody and control. The "OFFICIAL CUSTODIAN" of this city
shall be the Mayor.
   "MECHANICAL PROCESSING." Any operation or other procedure which is
transacted on a machine, and which may include, but is not limited to a copier,
computer, recorder or tape processor, or other automated device.
   "MEDIA." The physical material in or on which records may be stored or
represented, and which may include, but is not limited to paper, microform,
disks, diskettes, optical disks, magnetic tapes, and cards.
   "PERSON." A human being who makes a request for inspection of public
records.
   "PUBLIC AGENCY." Every city government board, commission, and authority;
every city council and council board, commission and committee; every school
district board, special district board, and municipal corporation; every city
government agency, including the policy-making board of an institution of
education created by or pursuant to state or local statute, executive order,
ordinance, resolution, or other legislative act; any body created by or
pursuant to state or local statute, executive order, ordinance, resolution, or
other legislative act in the legislative or executive branch of government; any
entity when the majority of its governing body is appointed by a "public
agency", as defined by this section; a member or employee of a "public agency",
a state or local officer, or any combination thereof; any board, commission,
committee, subcommittee, ad hoc committee, advisory committee, council or
agency, except for a committee of a hospital medical staff or a committee
formed for the purpose of evaluating the qualifications of public agency
employees, established, created, or controlled by a "public agency" as defined
in this section; an interagency body of two (2) or more public agencies where
each "public agency" is defined in this section.
(KRS 61.870)
   "PUBLIC RECORDS." All books, papers, maps, photographs, cards, tapes, discs,
diskettes, recordings, software, or other documentation regardless of physical
form or characteristics, which are prepared, owned, used, in the possession of,
or retained by a public agency. "PUBLIC RECORDS" shall not include any records
owned or maintained by or for a body referred to in subsection (1) (h) of KRS
61.870 that are not related to functions, activities, programs, or operations
funded by state or local authority nor any records that may be excluded by §
36.12.
   "REASONABLE FEE" or "FEE." The fair payment required by a public agency for
making copies of non exempt public records requested for noncommercial purposes
which shall not exceed the actual cost of reproduction, including the costs of
the media and any mechanical processing cost incurred by the public agency, but
not including the cost of staff. If a public agency is asked to produce a
record in a nonstandardized format, or to tailor the format to meet the request
of an individual or a group, the public agency may at its discretion provide
the requested format and recover staff costs as well as any actual costs
incurred.
   "REQUEST." An oral or written application by any person to inspect public
records of the city.
   "SOFTWARE." The program code which makes a computer system function, but
does not include that portion of the program code which contains public records
exempted from inspection as provided by KRS 61.878 or specific addresses of
files, passwords, access codes, user identifications, or any other mechanism
for controlling the security or restricting access to public records in the
public agency's computer system. "SOFTWARE" consists of the operating system,
application programs, procedures, routines, and subroutines such as translators
and utility programs, but does not include that material which is prohibited
from disclosure or copying by a license agreement between a public agency and
an outside entity which supplied the material to the agency.
(KRS 61.870)
PROCEDURES FOR REQUESTING PUBLIC RECORDS
§ 36.05 INITIAL REQUEST WITH IMMEDIATE INSPECTION.
   (A)   (1)   Any resident of the Commonwealth shall have the right to inspect
public records. The official custodian may require a written application,
signed by the applicant and with his or her name printed legibly on the
application, describing the records to be inspected. The official custodian may
require the applicant to provide a statement in the written application of the
manner in which the applicant is a resident of the Commonwealth under KRS
61.870(10)(a) to (f).
      (2)   The written application shall be:
         (a)   Hand delivered;
         (b)   Mailed;
         (c)   Sent via facsimile; or
         (d)   Sent via e-mail to the public agency's official custodian of
public records or his or her designee at the e-mail address designated in the
public agency's rules and regulations adopted pursuant to KRS 61.876.
      (3)   A public agency shall not require the use of any particular form
for the submission of an open records request, but shall accept for any request
the standardized form developed under KRS 61.876(4).
(KRS 61.872 (2))
   (B)   All public records shall be open for inspection by any resident of the
Commonwealth, except as otherwise provided by KRS 61.870 to 61.884, and
suitable facilities shall be made available by each public agency for the
exercise of this right. No resident of the Commonwealth shall remove original
copies of public records from the offices of any public agency without the
written permission of the official custodian of the record.
(KRS 61.872(1)).
   (C)   A resident of the Commonwealth may inspect the public records:
      (1)   During the regular office hours of the public agency; or
      (2)   By receiving copies of the public records from the public agency
through the mail. The public agency shall mail copies of the public records to
a person whose residence or principal place of business is outside the county
in which the public records are located after he or she precisely describes the
public records which are readily available within the public agency. If the
resident of the Commonwealth requesting the public records requests that copies
of the records be mailed, the official custodian shall mail the copies upon
receipt of all fees and the cost of mailing.
(KRS 61.872(3)).
   (D)   The applicant shall have the right to make abstracts of the public
records and to obtain copies of all public records not exempted by this
chapter. When copies are requested, the custodian may require a written request
and advance payment of the prescribed fee as defined in §
36.01.
(KRS 61.874(1))
   (E)   Nonexempt public records used for noncommercial purposes shall be
available for copying in either standard electronic or standard hard copy
format, as designated by the party requesting the records, where the agency
currently maintains the records in electronic format. Nonexempt public records
used for noncommercial purposes shall be copied in standard hard copy format
where agencies currently maintain records in hard copy format. Agencies are not
required to convert hard copy format records to electronic formats.
   (F)   The minimum standard format in paper form shall be defined as not less
than 8 ½ inches x 11 inches in at least one (1) color on white paper, or for
electronic format, in a flat file electronic American Standard Code for
Information Interchange (ASCII) format. If the public agency maintains
electronic public records in a format other than ASCII, and this format
conforms to the requestor’s requirements, the public records may be provided in
this alternate electronic format for standard fees as specified by the public
agency. Any request for a public record in a form other than the forms
described in this section shall be considered a nonstandardized request.
(KRS 61.874(2)(b))
   (G)   Unless an enactment of the General Assembly prohibits the disclosure
of public records to persons who intend to use them for commercial purposes, if
copies of nonexempt public records are requested for commercial purposes, the
public agency may establish a reasonable fee. The public agency from which
copies of nonexempt public records are requested for a commercial purpose may
require a certified statement from the requestor stating the commercial purpose
for which they shall be used, and may require the requestor to enter into a
contract with the agency. The contract shall permit use of the public records
for the stated commercial purpose for a specified fee. The fee may be based on
the cost to the public agency of media, mechanical processing and staff
required to produce a copy of the public record or records or the cost to the
public agency of the creation purchase, or the acquisition of the public
records.
(KRS 61.874 (4))
   (H)   It shall be unlawful for a person to obtain a copy of any part of a
public record for a:
      (1)   Commercial purpose, without stating the commercial purpose, if a
certified statement from the requestor was required by the public agency
pursuant to subsection (G) of this section: or
      (2)   Commercial purpose, if the person uses or knowingly allows the use
of the public record for a different commercial purpose; or
      (3)   Noncommercial purpose, if the person uses or knowingly allows the
use of the public record for a commercial purpose. A newspaper, periodical,
radio or television station shall not be held to have used or knowingly allowed
the use of the public record for a commercial purpose merely because of its
publication or broadcast, unless it has also given its express permission for
that commercial use.
(KRS 61.874 (5))
   (I)   Online access to public records in electronic form, as provided under
this section, may be provided and made available at the discretion of the
public agency. If a party wishes to access public records by electronic means
and the public agency agrees to provide online access, a public agency may
require that the party enter into a contract, license, or other agreement with
the agency, and may charge fees for these agreements. Fees shall not exceed:
      (1)   The cost of physical connection to the system and reasonable cost
of computer time access charges;
      (2)   If the records are requested for a commercial purpose, a reasonable
fee based on the factors set forth in subsection (G).
(KRS 61.874(6))
§ 36.06 REFERRAL TO PROPER CUSTODIAN.
   If the City Clerk does not have custody or control of the public record or
records requested, the City Clerk shall so notify the applicant and shall
furnish the name and location of the custodian of the public record.
(KRS 61.872(4))
§ 36.07 PUBLIC RECORDS NOT IMMEDIATELY AVAILABLE.
   If the public record is in active use, in storage, or not otherwise
available, the official custodian shall immediately so notify the applicant and
shall designate a place, time, and date for inspection of the public records,
not to exceed five (5) days (excepting Saturdays, Sundays, and legal holidays)
from receipt of the application, unless a detailed explanation of the cause is
given for further delay and the place, time, and earliest date on which the
public record will be available for inspection or duplication.
(KRS 61.872(5))
§ 36.08 REFUSAL OF UNREASONABLE REQUESTS.
   If the application places an unreasonable burden in producing public
records, or if the custodian has reason to believe that repeated requests are
intended to disrupt other essential functions of the public agency, the
official custodian may refuse to permit inspection of the public records or
mail copies of public records. However, refusal under this section must be
sustained by clear and convincing evidence.
(KRS 61.872(6))
§ 36.09 TIME LIMITATION; DENIAL OF INSPECTION.
   (A)   The official custodian, upon any request for records made under this
chapter, shall determine within five (5) days, excepting Saturdays, Sundays,
and legal holidays, after the receipt of any request whether to comply with the
request and shall notify in writing the person making the request within the
five (5)-day period of its decision. Any agency response denying, in whole or
in part, inspection of any record shall include a statement of the specific
exception authorizing the withholding of the record and a brief explanation of
how the exception applies to the record withheld. The response shall be issued
by the official custodian or under the official custodian's authority and shall
constitute final agency action.
(KRS 61.880)
   (B)   If the requesting party wants the Attorney General to review the
denial of a request for inspection of a public record, he shall proceed under
the provisions of KRS 61.880 and 61.882. Upon the Attorney General's request,
the agency will provide additional documentation.
   (C)   If upon request by the person seeking inspection, the Attorney General
reviews the denial and issues a written opinion upholding, in whole or in part,
the request for inspection, the requesting party may institute appeal
proceedings within thirty (30) days for injunctive or declaratory relief in the
circuit court. In addition, if the Attorney General disallows the request, or
if the city continues to withhold the record notwithstanding the Attorney
General's opinion, and the person seeking disclosure institutes proceedings in
circuit court, the city shall notify the Attorney General of such action.
(KRS 61.880, 61.882)
§ 36.10 CONCEALING OR DESTROYING RECORDS PROHIBITED.
   No official or employee of the city shall willfully conceal or destroy any
record with the intent to violate the provisions of this chapter or these rules
and regulations.
§ 36.11 ACCESS TO RECORDS RELATING TO PARTICULAR INDIVIDUAL.
   Any person shall have access to any public record relating to him or in
which he is mentioned by name, upon presentation of appropriate identification,
subject to the provisions of this chapter.
(KRS 61.884)
§ 36.12 PUBLIC RECORDS PROTECTED FROM DISCLOSURE.
   (A)   The following public records are excluded from the application of this
chapter and these rules and regulations, and shall be subject to inspection
only upon order of a court of competent jurisdiction, except that no court
shall authorize the inspection by any party of any materials pertaining to
civil litigation beyond that which is provided by the Rules of Civil Procedure
governing pretrial discovery:
      (1)   Public records containing information of a personal nature where
the public disclosure thereof would constitute a clearly unwarranted invasion
of personal privacy.
      (2)   Records confidentially disclosed to an agency and compiled and
maintained for scientific research. This exemption shall not, however, apply to
records the disclosure or publication of which is directed by other statute.
      (3)   (a)   Records confidentially disclosed to an agency or required by
an agency to be disclosed to it, generally recognized as confidential or
proprietary, which if opened would permit an unfair commercial advantage to
competitors of the entity that disclosed the records.
         (b)   Records confidentially disclosed to an agency or required by an
agency to be disclosed to it, generally recognized as confidential or
proprietary, which are compiled and maintained (i) in conjunction with an
application or the administration of a loan or grant; (ii) in conjunction with
an application for or the administration of assessments, incentives,
inducements, and tax credits as described in KRS Chapter 154; (iii) in
conjunction with the regulation of commercial enterprise, including mineral
exploration records, unpatented, secret commercially valuable plans,
appliances, formulae, or processes, which are used for the making, preparing,
compounding, treating, or processing of articles or materials which are trade
commodities obtained from a person; or (iv) for the grant or review of a
license to do business. These exemptions shall not, however, apply to records
the disclosure or publication of which is directed by other statutes.
      (4)   Public records pertaining to a prospective location of a business
or industry where no previous public disclosure has been made of the business'
or industry's interest in locating in, relocating within, or expanding within
the Commonwealth. This exemption shall not include those records pertaining to
applications to agencies for permits or licenses necessary to do business or to
expand business operations within the state, except as provided in division (A)
(3) above.
      (5)   Public records which are developed by an agency in conjunction with
the regulation or supervision of financial institutions, including but not
limited to, banks, savings and loan associations, and credit unions, which
disclose the agency's internal examining or audit criteria and related
analytical methods.
      (6)   The contents of real estate appraisals or engineering or
feasibility estimates and evaluations made by or for a public agency relative
to the acquisition of property, until such time as all of the property has been
acquired. The law of eminent domain shall not be affected by this provision.
      (7)   Test questions, scoring keys, and other examination data used to
administer a licensing examination, examination for employment, or academic
examination before the exam is given or if it is to be given again.
      (8)   Records of law enforcement agencies or agencies involved in
administrative adjudication that were compiled in the process of detecting and
investigating statutory or regulatory violations, if the disclosure of the
information would harm the agency by revealing the identity of informants not
otherwise known or by premature release of information to be used in a
prospective law enforcement action or administrative adjudication. Unless
exempted by other provisions of this chapter, public records exempted under
this provision shall be open after enforcement action is completed or a
decision is made to take no action. The exemptions provided by this subdivision
shall not be used by the custodian of the records to delay or impede the
exercise of rights granted by this chapter.
      (9)   (a)   Public records the disclosure of which would have a
reasonable likelihood of threatening the public safety by exposing a
vulnerability in preventing, protecting against, mitigating or responding to a
terrorist act and limited to:
            1.   Criticality lists resulting from consequence assessments;
            2.   Vulnerability assessments;
            3.   Antiterrorism measures and plans;
            4.   Security and response needs assessments;
            5.   Infrastructure records that expose a vulnerability referred to
in this division through the disclosure of the location, configuration, or
security of critical systems, including public utility critical systems. These
critical systems shall include but not be limited to information technology,
communication, electrical, fire suppression, ventilation, water, wastewater,
sewage and gas systems;
            6.   The following records when their disclosure will expose a
vulnerability referred to in this division: detailed drawings, schematics, maps
or specifications of structural elements, floor plans, and operating utility or
security systems of any building or facility owned, occupied, leased, or
maintained by a public agency; and
            7.   Records when their disclosure will expose a vulnerability
referred to in this division and that describe the exact physical location of
hazardous chemical, radiological or biological materials.
         (b)   As used in this division, "TERRORIST ACT" means a criminal act
intended to:
            1.   Intimidate or coerce a public agency or all or part of the
civilian population;
            2.   Disrupt a system identified in this division; or
            3.   Cause massive destruction to a building or facility owned,
occupied, leased or maintained by a public agency.
         (c)   On the same day that a public agency denies a request to inspect
a public record for a reason identified with this division, that public agency
shall forward a copy of the written denial of the request to the Executive
Director of the Kentucky Office of Homeland Security and the Attorney General;
         (d)   Nothing in this division shall affect the obligations of a
public agency with respect to disclosure and availability of public records
under state environmental, health and safety programs;
         (e)   The exemption established in this division shall not apply when
a member of the Kentucky General Assembly seems to inspect a public record
identified in this division under the Open Records Law.
      (10)   Preliminary drafts, notes, or correspondence with private
individuals, other than correspondence which is intended to give notice of
final action of a public agency.
      (11)   Preliminary recommendations and preliminary memoranda in which
opinions are expressed or policies formulated or recommended.
      (12)   All public records or information the disclosure of which is
prohibited by federal law or regulation or state law.
      (13)   Public records or information the disclosure of which is
prohibited or restricted or otherwise made confidential by enactment of the
General Assembly, including any information acquired by the Department of
Revenue in tax administration that is prohibited from divulgence or disclosure
under KRS 131.190.
      (14)   Public or private records, including books, papers, maps,
photographs, cards, tapes, discs, diskettes, recordings, software, or other
documentation regardless of physical form or characteristics, having historic,
literary, artistic, or commemorative value accepted by the archivist of a
public university, museum, or government depository from a donor or depositor
other than a public agency. This exemption shall apply to the extent that
nondisclosure is requested in writing by the donor or depositor of such
records, but shall not apply to records the disclosure or publication of which
is mandated by another statute or by federal law.
      (15)   Records of a procurement process under KRS Chs. 45A or 56. This
exemption shall not apply after:
         (a)   A contract is awarded; or
         (b)   The procurement process is canceled without award of a contract
and there is a determination that the contract will not be resolicited;
      (16)   Client and case files maintained by the Department of Public
Advocacy or any person or entity contracting with the Department of Public
Advocacy for the provision of legal representation under KRS Ch. 31;
      (17)   Except as provided in KRS 61.168, photographs or videos that
depict the death, killing, rape, or sexual assault of a person. However, such
photographs or videos shall be made available by the public agency to the
requesting party for viewing on the premises of the public agency, or a
mutually agreed upon location, at the request of;
         (a)   1.   Any victim depicted in the photographs or videos, his or
her immediate family, or legal representative;
            2.   Any involved insurance company or its representative; or
            3.   The legal representative of any involved party;
         (b)   Any state agency or political subdivision investigating official
misconduct; or
         (c)   A legal representative for a person under investigation for,
charged with, pled guilty to, or found guilty of a crime related to the
underlying incident. The person under investigation for, charged with, pled
guilty to, or found guilty of a crime related to the underlying incident or
their immediate family shall not be permitted to have access to the photographs
or videos;
      (18)   Records confidentially maintained by a law enforcement agency in
accordance with a wellness program, including an early intervention system, as
described in KRS 15.409; and
      (19)   Communications of a purely personal nature unrelated to any
governmental function.
   (B)   No exemption under this section shall be construed to prohibit
disclosure of statistical information not descriptive of any readily
identifiable person.
   (C)   No exemption under this section shall be construed to deny, abridge,
or impede the right of a municipal employee, an applicant for employment, or an
eligible person on an employment register to inspect and copy any record,
including preliminary and other supporting documentation, that relates to that
person. Such records shall include, but not be limited to work plans, job
performance, demotions, evaluations, promotions, compensation, classification,
reallocation, transfers, layoffs, disciplinary actions, examination scores, and
preliminary and other supporting documentation. A municipal employee,
applicant, or eligible person on an employment register shall not have the
right to inspect or copy any examination or any documents relating to ongoing
criminal or administrative investigations by an agency.
   (D)   If any public record contains material which is not excepted under
this section, the public agency shall separate the excepted and make the
nonexcepted material available for examination.
   (E)   The provisions of this section shall in no way prohibit or limit the
exchange of public records or the sharing of information between public
agencies when the exchange is serving a legitimate governmental need or is
necessary in the performance of a legitimate government function.
   (F)   When material is made available pursuant to a request under division
(A)(17) above, the public agency shall not be required to make a copy of the
recording except as provided in KRS 61.169, and the requesting parties shall
not be limited in the number of times they may view the material.
(KRS 61.878)
CHAPTER 37: PUBLIC MEETINGS
Section
General
   
37.01   Definitions
Public Meeting Requirements
   
37.05   Meetings open to the public
   
37.06   Requirements for closed sessions
   
37.07   Public meeting schedules
   
37.08   Special meetings
   
37.09   Video teleconferences
   
37.10   Enforcement
GENERAL
§ 37.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following words and phrases shall have
the following meanings ascribed to them respectively.
   "ACTION TAKEN." A collective decision, a commitment or promise to make a
positive or negative decision, or an actual vote by a majority of the members
of the governmental body.
(KRS 61.805(3))
   "MEETING." All gatherings of every kind, including video teleconferences,
regardless of where the meeting is held, and whether regular or special and
informational or casual gatherings held in anticipation of or in conjunction
with a regular or special meeting.
(KRS 61.805(1))
   "MEMBER." A member of the governing body of a public agency. "Member" does
not include employees or licensees of the agency.
(KRS 61.805(4))
   "PUBLIC AGENCY." Every city government board, commission, and authority;
every city council and council board, commission and committee; every school
district board, special district board, and municipal corporation; every city
government agency, including the policy-making board of an institution of
education created by or pursuant to state or local statute, executive order,
ordinance, resolution, or other legislative act; any body created by or
pursuant to state or local statute, executive order, ordinance, resolution, or
other legislative act in the legislative or executive branch of government; any
entity when the majority of its governing body is appointed by a "public
agency", as defined by this section; a member or employee of a "public agency",
a state or local officer, or any combination thereof; any board, commission,
committee, subcommittee, ad hoc committee, advisory committee, council or
agency, except for a committee of a hospital medical staff or a committee
formed for the purpose of evaluating the qualifications of public agency
employees, established, created, or controlled by a "public agency" as defined
in this section; an interagency body of two (2) or more public agencies where
each "public agency" is defined in this section.
(KRS 61.805(2))
   "VIDEO TELECONFERENCE." One (1) meeting, occurring in two (2) or more
locations, where individuals can see and hear each other by means of video and
audio equipment.
(KRS 61.805(5))
PUBLIC MEETING REQUIREMENTS
§ 37.05 MEETINGS OPEN TO THE PUBLIC.
   (A)   All meetings of a quorum of the members of any public agency at which
any public business is discussed or at which any action is taken by the agency,
shall be public meetings, open to the public at all times, except for the
following:
      (1)   Deliberations on the future acquisition or sale of real property by
a public agency, but only when publicity would be likely to affect the value of
a specific piece of property to be acquired for public use or sold by a public
agency;
      (2)   Discussions of proposed or pending litigation against or on behalf
of the public agency;
      (3)   Collective bargaining negotiations between public employers and
their employees or their representatives;
      (4)   Discussions or hearings which might lead to the appointment,
discipline, or dismissal of an individual employee, member, or student without
restricting that employee's, member's or student's right to a public hearing if
requested. This exception shall not be interpreted to permit discussion of
general personnel matters in secret;
      (5)   Discussions between a public agency and a representative of a
business entity and discussions concerning a specific proposal, if open
discussions would jeopardize the siting, retention, expansion, or upgrading of
the business;
      (6)   Local cabinet meetings and executive cabinet meetings;
      (7)   Deliberations of quasi-judicial bodies regarding individual
adjudications or appointments, at which neither the person involved, his
representatives, nor any other individual not a member of the agency's
governing body or staff is present, but not including any meetings of planning
commissions, zoning commissions, or boards of adjustment;
      (8)   That portion of a meeting devoted to a discussion of a specific
public record exempted from disclosure under KRS 61.810(1)(i). However, that
portion of any public agency meeting shall not be disclosed to a member of the
Kentucky General Assembly;
      (9)   Meetings which federal or state law specifically require to be
conducted in privacy;
      (10)   Meetings which the Constitution provides shall be held in secret;
and
      (11)   Meetings of any selection committee, evaluation committee, or
other similar group established under KRS Chapter 45A or 56 or other state or
local law, to select a successful bidder for award of a state or local
contract.
   (B)   Any series of less than quorum meetings, where the members attending
one or more of the meetings collectively constitute at least a quorum of the
members of the public agency and where the meetings are held for the purpose of
avoiding the requirements of subsection (A) of this section, shall be subject
to the requirements of subsection (A) of this section. Nothing in this
subsection shall be construed to prohibit discussion between individual members
where the purpose of the discussions is to educate the members on specific
issues.
(KRS 61.810)
§ 37.06 REQUIREMENTS FOR CLOSED SESSIONS.
   (A)   The following requirements shall be met as a condition for conducting
closed sessions by those public agencies authorized by §
37.05(A) (1) and (4) except as (4) relates to students:
      (1)   Notice shall be given in regular open meetings of the general
nature of the business to be discussed in closed session, the reason for the
closed session, and the specific provision of §
37.05 authorizing the closed session;
      (2)   Closed sessions may be held only after a motion is made and carried
by a majority vote in open, public session;
      (3)   No final action may be taken in closed session; and
      (4)   No matters may be discussed at a closed session other than those
publicly announced prior to convening the closed session.
   (B)   Public agencies and activities identified in §
37.05(A) paragraphs (2), (3), (4), but only so far as (4) relates to students,
(5), (6), (7), (8), and (9) are excluded from the requirements of subsection
(A) of this section.
(KRS 61.815)
§ 37.07 PUBLIC MEETING SCHEDULES.
   (A)   All meetings of a public agency shall be held at specified times and
places which are convenient to the public. In considering locations for public
meetings, the agency shall evaluate space requirements, seating capacity, and
acoustics.
   (B)   All public agencies shall provide for a schedule of regular meetings
by ordinance, order, resolution, by laws or by whatever other means may be
required for the conduct of business of the public agency. The schedule of
regular meetings shall be made available to the public.
(KRS 61.820)
§ 37.08 SPECIAL MEETINGS.
   (A)   Except as provided by subsection (F) of this section, special meetings
shall be held in accordance with the provisions of divisions (B), (C) and (D)
of this section:
   (B)   The presiding officer or a majority of the members of the public
agency may call a special meeting;
   (C)   The public agency shall provide written notice of the special meeting
containing the date, time, place of the special meeting and the agenda.
Discussions and action at the meeting shall be limited to items listed on the
agenda in the notice.
   (D)   (1)   As soon as possible, written notice shall be delivered
personally, transmitted by facsimile, or mailed to every member of the public
agency as well as each media organization which has filed a written request,
including a mailing address, to receive notice of special meetings. The notice
shall be received at least twenty-four (24) hours before the special meeting.
The public agency may periodically, but no more often than once in a calendar
year, inform media organizations that they will have to submit a new written
request or no longer receive written notice of special meetings until a new
written request is filed.
      (2)   A public agency may satisfy the requirements of division (1) of
this section by transmitting the written notice by electronic mail to public
agency members and media organizations that have filed a written request with
the public agency indicating their preference to receive electronic mail
notification in lieu of notice by personal delivery, facsimile machine, or
mail. The written request shall include the electronic mail address or
addresses of the agency member or media organization.
   (E)   As soon as possible, written notice shall also be posted in a
conspicuous place in the building where the special meeting will take place and
in a conspicuous place in the building which houses the headquarters of the
agency. The notice shall be posted at least twenty-four (24) hours before the
special meeting.
   (F)   In the case of an emergency which prevents compliance with the notice
requirements in this section, this subsection shall govern a public agency's
conduct of a special meeting. The special meeting shall be called pursuant to
subsection (B) of this section. The public agency shall make a reasonable
effort, under emergency circumstances, to notify the members of the agency,
media organizations which have filed a written request pursuant to this
section, and the public of the emergency meeting. At the beginning of the
emergency meeting, the person chairing the meeting shall briefly describe for
the record the emergency circumstances preventing compliance with the notice
requirements of this section. These comments shall appear in the minutes.
Discussion and action at the emergency meeting shall be limited to the
emergency for which the meeting is called.
(KRS 61.823)
§ 37.09 VIDEO TELECONFERENCES.
   (A)   A public agency may conduct any meeting through video teleconference.
   (B)   Notice of a video teleconference meeting shall:
      (1)   Comply with the requirements of KRS 61.820 or 61.823 as
appropriate;
      (2)   Clearly state that the meeting will be a video teleconference;
      (3)   Provide specific information on how any member of the public or
media organization may view the meeting electronically; and
      (4)   In any case where the public agency has elected to provide a
physical location, or in any circumstance where two (2) or more members of the
public agency are attending a video teleconference meeting from the same
physical location, precisely identify a primary physical location of the video
teleconference where all members can be seen and heard and the public may
attend in accordance with KRS 61.840.
   (C)   The same procedures with regard to participation, distribution of
materials, and other matters shall apply in all video teleconference locations.
Members of the public agency who participate in a video teleconference shall
remain visible on camera at all times that business is being discussed.
   (D)   Any interruption in the video or audio broadcast of a video
teleconference at any location shall result in the suspension of the video
teleconference until the broadcast is restored.
   (E)   If a regular meeting is changed to a video conference, the meeting
shall remain a regular meeting if the meeting occurs on the same date and time
as originally scheduled and the public agency follows the provisions of KRS
61.823(4) to provide a notice that meets the requirements of division (B)(2)
through (4) of this section.
(KRS 61.826)
§ 37.10 ENFORCEMENT.
   The provisions of this Chapter shall be enforced pursuant to KRS 61.846 and
61.848 for enforcing KRS 61.805 to 61.850.
CHAPTER 38: PERSONNEL POLICIES
Section
   
38.01   Personnel Policies adopted by reference
§ 38.01 PERSONNEL POLICIES ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The Personnel Policies attached to Ordinance 2014-10-02 as Exhibit A are
hereby adopted in full as the Personnel Policies of the City of Crestview
Hills, Kenton County, Kentucky, as if set out at length herein.
   (A)   A copy of the Personnel Policies shall at all times remain on file in
the office of the City Administrator for the City of Crestview Hills, Kentucky.
   (B)   All previous versions of the Personnel Policies are hereby repealed
and all ordinances or parts of ordinances in conflict therewith are to the
extent of such conflict hereby repealed.
(Ord. 2014-10-02, passed 11-13-14)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
      Chapter
         
50.   ELECTRIC
         
51.   SEWERS
         
52.   GARBAGE
         
53.   SMALL CELLULAR TOWER DESIGN GUIDELINES
CHAPTER 50: ELECTRIC
   
50.01   Definitions
   
50.02   Underground facilities
   
50.03   Street lights; conversions
§ 50.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   "DEVELOPER." Any property owner, builder, or subdivider.
   "ELECTRIC DISTRIBUTION FACILITIES" or "COMMUNICATIONS FACILITIES." Include
those facilities serving residential areas of the kind described herein, and
does not include facilities which deliver power or communication service
through such areas, or transmission facilities which terminate in such areas.
   "FACILITIES." Wires, cables, transformers, fixtures, cabinets, closures, and
appurtenances.
   "NEW RESIDENTIAL SUBDIVISIONS." Subdivisions approved by Council after the
effective date of this chapter.
   "UTILITY COMPANY." The Union Light, Heat, and Power Company, Cincinnati
Bell, Inc., or any person, firm, or corporation authorized by Council to serve
residents, businesses, or institutions in the city.
(Ord. 1973-9-4, passed 9-12-73; Am. Ord. 1981-10-1, passed 9-10-81)
§ 50.02 UNDERGROUND FACILITIES.
   In all new residential subdivisions of twelve (12) or more contiguous lots:
   (A)   The developer shall provide electric distribution facilities, street
lighting facilities, and communication distribution facilities to be installed
by the appropriate utility company to serve the subdivision underground within
or along the right-of-way of existing or proposed public streets, provided,
prior to installation of such facilities, the developer pays utility company's
schedules and give utility company a written commitment to pay utility company
for the cost of any relocation of such facilities and to provide all easements
necessary for relocation and for any extension, and the developer shall provide
necessary easements to the utility company at no cost to the utility company.
   (B)   All service lines connecting the customer's service with the utility
company's distribution lines shall be installed underground to connection
points on the distribution facilities determined by the utility companies. The
customer's service line shall be installed by the developer or customer, except
for communications service lines. The actual connection to the utility
company's facilities shall be made by the utility companies.
   (C)   (1)   Installation of pad-mounted supply transformers and
communication interconnection cabinets are discouraged and installation of such
transformers and cabinets shall be below the ground surface if feasible.
      (2)   In determining the feasibility of the sub-surface installation, the
physical terrain of the land shall be considered as well as economic cost
factors. Payment of additional charges shall be made in accordance with the
rates and requirements of the appropriate utility company.
   (D)   Prior to paving any street, the developer shall install, at his own
cost, acceptable separate conduit crossovers for electric and communication
facilities at locations specified by the utility companies.
(Ord. 1973-9-4, passed 9-12-73)
§ 50.03 STREET LIGHTS; CONVERSIONS.
   Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to prohibit the installation and
maintenance of street lighting poles or standards or to require the conversion
to underground of any existing overhead electric or communications distribution
or street lighting facilities.
(Ord. 1973-9-4, passed 9-12-73)
CHAPTER 51: SEWERS
Section
   
51.01   Definitions
   
51.02   Control of sewers
   
51.03   Use of sewers
   
51.04   Approval of sewer plans
   
51.05   Building sewers and connections
§ 51.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   "BUILDING DRAIN." That part of the lowest horizontal piping of a drainage
system which receives the discharge from soil, waste, and other drainage pipes
inside the walls of a building and conveys it to the building sewer beginning
three (3) feet outside the building wall.
      (1)   "BUILDING DRAIN - SANITARY." A building drain which conveys sewage
only.
      (2)   "BUILDING DRAIN - STORM." A building drain which conveys storm
water or other drainage, but no sewage.
   "BUILDING SEWER." The extension from the building drain to the public sewer
or other place of disposal.
      (1)   "BUILDING SEWER - SANITARY." A building sewer which conveys sewage
only.
      (2)   "BUILDING SEWER - STORM." A building sewer which conveys storm
water or other drainage, but no sewage.
   "COOLING WATER." The water discharged from any system of condensation, air
conditioning, cooling, refrigeration, or other. It shall be free from odor and
oil and shall contain no polluting substances.
   "DISTRICT." The Sanitation District No. 1 of Campbell and Kenton Counties.
   "GARBAGE." A solid waste from the domestic and commercial preparation,
cooking, and dispensing of food, and from the handling, storage, and sale of
product.
   "INDUSTRIAL WASTES." The liquid wastes from industrial manufacturing
processes, trade, or business as distinct from sanitary sewage.
   "NATURAL OUTLET." Any outlet into a watercourse, pond, ditch, lake, or other
body of surface or ground water.
   "PRIVATE SEWER." A sewer which is not owned by the public authority.
   "PROPERLY SHREDDED GARBAGE." The wastes from the preparation, cooking, and
dispensing of food that has been shredded to such a degree that all particles
will be carried freely under the flow conditions normally prevailing in public
sewers.
   "PUBLIC AUTHORITY." Any governmental agency having jurisdiction by law.
   "PUBLIC SEWER." A sewer which is owned and controlled by the public
authority.
   "SANITARY SEWAGE." A combination of the water-carried wastes from
residences, business buildings, institutions, commercial and industrial
establishments contributed by reason of human occupancy.
   "SANITARY SEWER." A sewer which carries sanitary sewage and industrial
wastes, and to which storm, surface, and ground waters are not intentionally
admitted.
   "SEWERAGE WORKS." All facilities for collecting, pumping, treating, and
disposing of sanitary sewage and industrial wastes.
   "STORM SEWER." A sewer which carries storm, surface waters and drainage, but
which excludes sanitary sewage and industrial wastes.
   "WATERCOURSE." A channel in which a flow of water occurs, either
continuously or intermittently.
(Ord. 1973-2-1, passed 2-14-73)
§ 51.02 CONTROL OF SEWERS.
   (A)   All private sanitary sewers in the city shall be controlled by the
city but maintained and operated by their owners. The city may accept for
maintenance, and operation any private sewer which meets the city standards for
same and for which a proper easement is dedicated to the city.
   (B)   All public or private sanitary sewers shall continue to be owned by
the respective public or private owners now owning same until such time as the
owner and the city mutually agree to a transfer of ownership to the city.
   (C)   No sanitary sewer shall be constructed within the jurisdiction of the
city without the prior written approval of the Kentucky Water Pollution Control
Commission, Sanitation District No. 1 of Campbell and Kenton Counties, and the
city.
   (D)   Any connection to a sanitary sewer within the jurisdiction of the city
shall be subject to these rules and regulations, and to any charges, rates,
fees, and assessments, which are or may be established by the city as being
applicable, and shall be made under permits issued by the city.
   (E)   No extension or modification shall be made to any sanitary sewer,
controlled by the city without the prior written approval of the city.
(Ord. 1973-2-1, passed 2-14-73)
§ 51.03 USE OF SEWERS.
   (A)   (1)   No person, firm, or corporation shall discharge or cause to be
discharged, either directly or indirectly, any storm water, surface water,
ground water, roof runoff, subsurface drainage, cooling water, or unpolluted
industrial process waters to any sanitary sewer.
      (2)   Any such connections made either before or after the effective date
of these rules and regulations shall be considered illegal and shall be subject
to immediate removal by the owner of the premises so connected and at such
owner's expense.
      (3)   Should the owner of such illegally connected premises fail to
remove the connection within ninety (90) days, the city shall cause the
connection to be removed and the cost thereof shall be billed to the owner of
the premises, and shall constitute a lien against the premises.
   (B)   No person, firm, or corporation shall discharge or cause to be
discharged to any natural outlet or storm sewer any sanitary sewage or other
polluted waters. Effluent from privately owned individual household disposal
devices, shall not be discharged to storm sewers.
   (C)   Stormwater and all other unpolluted drainage shall be discharged into
such sewers as are specifically designed and designated as storm sewers or a
natural outlet approved by the city.
   (D)   No person, firm, or corporation constructing a sanitary sewer,
building, or house connection shall leave same open, unsealed, or incomplete in
such a fashion as to permit storm, surface, or subsurface water to enter such
sewers.
   (E)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged to any public
sewer any of the following described substances, materials, waters, or wastes.
      (1)   Any liquid or vapor having a temperature higher than 150°F.
(65°C.).
      (2)   Any water or wastes which contain grease or oil or other substances
that will solidify or become discernibly viscous at temperatures between 30°
and 150°F.
      (3)   Any water or wastes containing edible type oil and grease exceeding
an analysis on average of 100 parts per million (833 pounds per million
gallons) of either soluble matter.
      (4)   Any water or wastes containing nonedible type oil or grease such as
petroleum or mineral oil or grease.
      (5)   Any gasoline, benzine, naphtha, fuel oil, or other flammable or
explosive liquid, solid, or gas.
      (6)   Any garbage that has not been properly shredded.
      (7)   Any ashes, cinders, sand, mud, straw, shavings, metal, glass, rags,
feathers, tar, plastics, wood, asphaltic materials, paunch manure, hair and
fleshings, entrails, lime slurry, lime residues, or viscous substances, capable
of causing some obstruction to the flow of sewers or other interference with
the proper operation of the sewerage works.
      (8)   Any long half-life (over 100 days) of toxic radioactive isotopes;
without special permit from the city. The radioactive isotopes such as I131 and
p32 used at hospitals are not prohibited, if properly diluted at the source and
discharged in accordance with Atomic Energy Commission recommendations.
   (F)   (1)   The accidental discharge of any prohibited liquid or solid
material into any sewer or natural outlet, either directly or indirectly, shall
be reported to the city immediately by the individual company or industry
responsible for the discharge.
      (2)   Although no penalty, as such, will be levied as a result of such
accidental discharge, it shall be understood that the individual, company, or
industry shall not be relieved of its responsibilities and shall be liable for
any expense, loss, or damage occasioned the city by reason of such accidental
discharge.
   (G)   No unauthorized person, firm, or corporation shall maliciously,
willfully, or negligently break, damage, destroy, deface, or tamper with any
structure, appurtenance, or equipment which is a part of the sewerage
facilities. Any person violating this provision shall be subject to immediate
arrest under charge of disorderly conduct.
(Ord. 1973-2-1, passed 2-14-73)
§ 51.04 APPROVAL OF SEWER PLANS.
   (A)   No sanitary sewers or sewage pumping facilities which drain either
directly or indirectly into sewers under the control of the city shall be
constructed without the prior written approval of the district, Kentucky Water
Pollution Control Commission, and the city of the plans thereof.
   (B)   All plans shall be submitted in quadruplicate, and shall be
accompanied by written request for approval.
   (C)   All plans shall be accompanied by an area plan showing all existing
and proposed sewers within the area to be served together with copies of all
pertinent computations of the design of the sewers and sewerage facilities.
   (D)   Construction plans shall be drawn to a scale of one inch equal fifty
(50) feet. Area plans shall be drawn to a scale of one inch equal to two
hundred (200) feet.
   (E)   All plans shall bear the signature of the registered professional
engineer who has prepared them, and shall provide space for the approval of the
City Engineer.
   (F)   (1)   The cost of plan review performed by the city shall be at a rate
per hour established and published from time to time by the city, and shall be
borne by the person, firm, or corporation submitting the plans. The person,
firm or corporation is required to deposit with the city a sum of money payable
to the City Treasurer, in an amount to be determined by the city for each
application, before a plan will be considered for review. The city will require
additional deposits to this fund if the original deposit proves inadequate.
      (2)   When the city determines that no further field engineering service
will be required for the improvement, the city will prepare a voucher in favor
of the depositor refunding any balance remaining in his account.
(Ord. 1973-2-1, passed 2-14-73)
§ 51.05 BUILDING SEWERS AND CONNECTIONS.
   (A)   No unauthorized person shall uncover, make any connection with or
opening into, use, alter, or disturb public or private sanitary sewers or
appurtenances thereof without first obtaining a permit from the city.
   (B)   A separate and independent building sewer-sanitary shall be provided
for every residential building.
   (C)   All roof runoff drains which discharge on city streets will be cast
iron or steel pipe four (4) feet back from the curb or edge of paving. It will
be the responsibility of the owner to insure that the discharge will not
undermine the city streets.
   (D)   The building sewer shall be constructed of a size not less than and of
materials meeting the standards of the district. It shall be laid at a minimum
grade of one-fourth inch per lineal foot from the building to the public sewer,
except that the city may authorize the grade to be as little as one-eighth inch
per lineal foot if the city determines such to be desirable or necessary. In no
case shall the basement floor be less than thirty-six (36) inches above the
crown of the sewer at the point of connection.
   (E)   In all buildings in which any building drain is too low to permit
gravity flow to the public or private sewer, sanitary sewage carried by such
building drains shall be lifted by an approved means, and discharged to the
building sewer.
CHAPTER 52: GARBAGE
Section
   
52.01   Definitions
   
52.02   Responsibility for collection
   
52.03   Collection frequency
   
52.04   Collection hours restricted
 
   
52.99   Penalty
§ 52.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context indicates or requires a different meaning.
   "ALUMINUM MATERIALS." Cans used to hold beverages, foil, wrappers,
containers for prepared foods, screens, frames, lawn chairs, and aluminum
siding.
   "BULKY ITEMS." All ferrous metal products such as washers, dryers,
refrigerators, stoves, hot water heaters, bicycles, and other household goods
and appliances, as well as large non-metal items such as furniture, rugs,
mattresses, box springs, stereos, and television sets.
   "COMMERCIAL ESTABLISHMENT." Any non-residential building or establishment,
for profit or non-profit, including, but not limited to, those used for retail,
wholesale, industrial, manufacturing, dining, offices, professional services,
automobile service, hotels and motels, restaurants, or shipping and receiving
areas.
   "CORRUGATED CARDBOARD." Paper in which a portion has been made to have a
wavy surface (alternating ridges and grooves) and is placed between two (2)
flat surfaces for the sake of strength and which is commonly used to form
cartons.
   "CONSTRUCTION DEBRIS." Demolition materials, broken concrete, broken glass
and like material that is not recyclable.
   "GARBAGE." Any putrescible animal and vegetable wastes resulting from the
handling, preparation, cooking, and consumption of food, as well as small dead
animals weighing not over fifteen (15) pounds, and animal excrement.
   "GLASS." Bottles and jars, made of silica, sand, soda ash, and limestone,
being transparent or translucent, and used for packaging or bottling of various
materials. This does not include plastics or glass produces such as window
glass, blue glass, flat glass, mirrors, plate glass, safety glass, light bulbs,
ceramics, or pieces of broken glass.
   "HIGH-GRADE PAPER." Computer paper, tab cards, white letterhead, ledger, and
non-glossy copier paper.
   "MULTIFAMILY DWELLING." Includes, but is not limited to, apartments, stacked
condominiums, cooperatives, or group houses where people reside, and share
common entrances.
   "NEWSPAPER." Newsprint-grade paper, the common inexpensive machine-finished
paper made chiefly from wood pulp, which is printed and distributed. This does
not include magazines, slick paper, and telephone books.
   "NONPROFIT ORGANIZATION." An established organization or foundation
dedicated to public service or culture including, but not limited to,
religious, educational, and health care functions. Federal, state, and local
governmental establishments are considered nonprofit organizations for purposes
of this Ordinance. This term also shall include civic clubs, youth groups, and
extra-curricular school organizations.
   "NON-RECYCLABLE MATERIALS." Garbage, construction debris, and any other
materials that are not designated as recyclable materials.
   "OCCUPIER OF LAND." Any residential dwelling, commercial establishment, or
nonprofit organization that shall hold title to or shall be in possession of
any property in the city, whether as owner, lessee, or tenant.
   "OIL." A petroleum-based or synthetic oil that is used as a lubricant for
internal combustion engines, transmissions, gears, or axles, and which through
use, storage, or handling, has become unsuitable for its original purpose. This
does not include oils used for cooking.
   "PLASTIC BEVERAGE CONTAINERS." Plastic milk jugs and plastic bottles made of
P.E.T. (polyethylene terephthalate), that are used to package soda, seltzer,
soft drinks, and the like. This does not include bottles made of other types of
plastic.
   "RECYCLABLE MATERIALS." Materials, as designated herein, that would
otherwise become solid waste that can be source separated, collected,
processed, and returned to the economic stream in the form of raw materials or
products.
   "REFUSE." All solid waste generated by occupiers of land within the city,
whether recyclable or Non-recyclable materials.
   "SINGLE FAMILY DWELLING UNITS." A dwelling standing by itself, separated
from other dwellings by open space, and/or condominium units that have
individual/separate access to the exterior of the building at ground level.
   "TIN CANS." Steel and tin-coated cans.
   "WASTE PAPER PRODUCT." All uncontaminated paper material such as magazines,
slick paper, books, paper food cartons, cardboard boxes, wrapping paper, bags,
and discarded letters and envelopes. This does not include newspapers or high-
grade paper.
   "YARD WASTE." Plant material, grass cuttings, tree trimmings, hedge
clippings, bushes, flowers, roots, branches, and tree limbs not over four (4)
feet in diameter, sod and rocks not over four (4) inches in diameter, and
similar biodegradable materials.
(Ord. 1997-6-2, passed 8-14-97)
§ 52.02 RESPONSIBILITY FOR COLLECTION.
   (A)   The city shall contract as often as necessary with a person, firm,
corporation, or entity who scavenge for hire to pick up and dispose of debris,
garbage, refuse, recyclable and non-recyclable matter from all single family
attached, single family detached, and two family residential dwellings units,
excluding multifamily dwellings as defined in this chapter.
   (B)   Debris, garbage, refuse, recyclable and non-recyclable matter produced
in stores, restaurants, multifamily units and other commercial establishments
shall be disposed of by the owners or occupants at their own expense.
(Ord. 1997-6-2, passed 8-14-97)
§ 52.03 COLLECTION FREQUENCY.
   Debris, garbage, refuse, recyclable and non-recyclable matter shall be
picked up and disposed of at least weekly or as often as provided by contract.
Owners and occupants located in areas that require the owner or occupant to
dispose of construction debris, garbage, refuse, recyclable and non-recyclable
matter shall dispose of said matter as often as is necessary (at least one time
per week) to avoid injury to the health and welfare of the general public.
(Ord. 1997-6-2, passed 8-14-97)
§ 52.04 COLLECTION HOURS RESTRICTED.
   All persons and entities are prohibited from emptying commercial refuse
dumpsters located within the city during the hours from 10:00 p.m. to 6:00 a.m.
(Ord. 2000-12-2, passed 1-13-00)
§ 52.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Violation of this chapter is punishable by fine of not less than fifty
dollars ($50.00) nor more than one hundred dollars ($100.00) and each day a
violation continues is a separate violation. Fines for repeat offenses as
within one year of a violation of this chapter shall be increased to not less
than one hundred dollars ($100.00) nor more than two hundred dollars ($200.00).
   (B)   Violation of §
52.04 shall be punishable by a fine of fifty dollars ($50.00) for the first
offense and one hundred dollars ($100.00) for each subsequent offense.
(Ord. 2000-12-2, passed 1-13-00)
(Ord. 1997-6-2, passed 8-14-97)
CHAPTER 53: SMALL CELLULAR TOWER DESIGN GUIDELINES
Section
   
53.01   Overview and purpose; definitions
   
53.02   Application procedures
   
53.03   Public notice procedures
   
53.04   General standards
   
53.05   Specifications for collocation
   
53.06   Antennas
   
53.07   Wireless support structure-mounted equipment
   
53.08   Ground-mounted small cell equipment
   
53.09   Cables
   
53.10   Electrical meters
   
53.11   Utility lines
   
53.12   Specifications for replacement of wireless support structures
   
53.13   Specifications for new wireless support structures
   
53.14   Underground area regulations
   
53.15   Relocation or removal
   
53.16   Annual certification
   
53.17   Electronic magnetic frequencies
   
53.18   Exceptions
   
53.19   Right-of-way maintenance fee
 
   
53.99   Penalties; equitable remedies
§ 53.01 OVERVIEW AND PURPOSE; DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   The purpose of these Design Guidelines is to:
      (1)   Protect the health, safety, and welfare of the citizens of the
city;
      (2)   Preserve the character of the city’s neighborhoods, office, and
shopping districts;
      (3)   Give guidance to wireless telecommunications providers to assist
such companies in the timely, efficient safe, and aesthetically pleasing
installation of facilities; and
      (4)   Comply with, and not conflict with or preempt all applicable state
and federal laws.
   (B)   For the purpose of this chapter, and the interpretation and
enforcement hereof, the following words and phrases shall have the following
meanings, unless the context of the sentence in which they are used shall
indicate otherwise:
      “ACCESSORY EQUIPMENT.” Equipment used in conjunction with a small cell
facility and generally at the same location as. Or in proximity to. The small
cell facility including, but not limited to, electric meters, concealment
elements, telecommunications demarcation boxes, grounding equipment, power
transfer switches, cut-off switches, and vertical cable runs.
      “APPLICANT.” Any person or entity who submits an application pursuant to
this chapter.
      “APPLICATION.” The form issued by the City Public Works Department to be
submitted by an applicant to the City Public Works Director to obtain a small
cell use permit from the city to collocate a small cell facility and/or to
construct, maintain, modify, operate, or replace a wireless support structure.
      “CITY.” City of Crestview Hills, Kentucky.
      “COLLOCATION” or “COLLOCATE.” To install, mount, maintain, modify,
operate, or replace wireless facilities on a wireless support structure.
      “DESIGN GUIDELINES.” The standards established in this
Chapter 53  of the Crestview Hills Codified Ordinances.
      “DIRECTOR.” The city’s Director of Public Works, or his or her designee,
unless otherwise specified.
      “FACILITIES.” Small cell facilities, accessory equipment, and wireless
support structures.
      “FACILITIES OPERATOR.” The person or entity responsible for the
installation, operation, maintenance, replacement, and modification of
facilities. “FACILITIES OPERATOR” includes:
         (a)   Operators:
         (b)   Applicants who applied for consent to collocate a small cell
facility or to construct, maintain, modify, operate, or replace a new wireless
support structure and who have obtained a small cell use permit: and
         (c)   Applicants who applied for consent to collocate a small cell
facility or to construct, maintain, modify, operate, or replace a new wireless
support structure and who have obtained a small cell use permit.
      “FCC.” The Federal Communication Commission.
      “OPERATOR.” A wireless service provider, cable operator, or video service
provider that operates a small cell facility and provides wireless service,
including a wireless service provider, cable operator, or a video service
provider that provides information services as defined in the
“Telecommunications Act of 1996,” 110 Stat. 59. 47 U.S.C. 153(201. and services
that are fixed in nature or use unlicensed spectrum.
      “PUBLIC WAY” or “RIGHT-OF-WAY.” The surface of, and the space within,
through, on, across, above or below, any public street, public road, public
highway, public freeway, public lane, public path, public alley, public court,
public sidewalk, public boulevard, public parkway, public drive, public
easement, and any other land dedicated or otherwise designated for a comparable
public use, which is owned or controlled by the city or other public entity or
political subdivision.
      “SMALL CELL EQUIPMENT.” A small cell facility and all accessory
equipment.
      “SMALL CELL FACILITY.” A wireless facility that meets both of the
following requirements:
         (a)   Each antenna is located inside an enclosure of not more than six
cubic feet in volume or, in the case of an antenna with exposed elements, the
antenna and all of its exposed elements can fit within an enclosure of not more
than six cubic feet in volume; and
         (b)   All other wireless equipment associated with the facility is
cumulatively not more than 28 cubic feet in volume. The calculation of
equipment volume shall not include electric meters, concealment elements,
telecommunications demarcation boxes, grounding equipment, power transfer
switches, cut-off switches, and vertical cable runs for the connection of power
and other services. “SMALL CELL EQUIPMENT” means a small cell facility and all
accessory equipment.
      “SMALL CELL USE PERMIT.” The permit granted by the city authorizing an
applicant to collocate a small cell facility or to construct, maintain, modify,
operate, or replace a wireless support structure in the right-of- way.
      “UNDERGROUND AREA.” An area in the right-of-way where existing electric
utilities, cable facilities, telecommunications facilities and other
facilities, other than structures and facilities owned by the city or a transit
authority, are located underground.
      “WIRELESS SUPPORT STRUCTURE.” A pole, such as a self-supporting monopole,
street light pole, traffic signal pole, a 15-foot or taller sign pole, or
utility pole capable of supporting small cell facilities.
(Ord. 2019-02-01, passed 3-14-19)
§ 53.02 APPLICATION PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Facility operator shall submit applications for small cellular tower
installations or co-locations to Planning and Development Services (PDS) of
Northern Kentucky for initial review. Applications are then forwarded to the
city for compliance with the Design Guidelines contained within Chapter 53 of
the Crestview Hills Code of Ordinances and siting design issues.
   (B)   Facility operator shall include a photograph of the proposed small
cell facility that is proposed for the installation(s).
   (C)   Application shall also include an explanation as to why the facility
cannot be co-located on an existing tower or placed on an existing building.
   (D)   Facility operator shall provide a completed RF exposure checklist and
proof that all licenses or other approvals have been granted by the FCC.
(Ord. 2019-02-01, passed 3-14-19)
§ 53.03 PUBLIC NOTICE PROCEDURES.
   (A)   When an application is filed for a permit to install one or more
wireless communication support structures in the city right-of-way, the
Director shall post notice of the application on the city’s web site, direct
the applicant to post a notice at the proposed site, make the application
materials available for public inspection, direct the applicant to provide
written notice to residents and businesses with property lines located within
500 feet of the proposed facility, and receive and consider written comment and
documentary evidence submitted from the public in accordance with procedures
established by the Director. The Director shall schedule, and a representative
of the applicant must attend, a community meeting to provide the public with
information about the planned new equipment or wireless communication
structure, answer questions, receive information, and respond to concerns.
   (B)   When an application is filed for a permit to collocate one or more
additional antennas on an existing support structure, the Director shall post
notice of the application, make the application materials available for public
inspection, provide written notice to residents and businesses with property
lines located within 200 feet of the proposed facility, and receive and
consider written comment and documentary evidence submitted from the public in
accordance with procedures established by the Director.
(Ord. 2019-02-01, passed 3-14-19)
§ 53.04 GENERAL STANDARDS.
   (A)   Facilities shall not be installed unless the facilities are compliant
with these Design Guidelines,
Chapter 53 of the Codified Ordinances and any application requirements, and all
applicable local, state, and federal laws.
   (B)   A facilities operator shall not construct, maintain, modify, operate,
or replace any facilities not clearly depicted in the Planning & Development
Services (PDS) small cell application standards or the city’s application for a
small cell use permit.
   (C)   No work shall be performed in the city right-of-way without obtaining
an encroachment permit form the city.
   (D)   All work shall be performed in a professional manner consistent with
the highest standards of workmanship.
   (E)   Facilities shall be maintained in good and safe condition and in a
manner that complies with all applicable federal, state and local requirements.
   (F)   Facilities shall not be installed in any location that causes any
interference with the city’s public safety radio system, traffic and emergency
signal light system, or other city or Kenton County safety communications
systems or system components.
   (G)   The city may propose an alternative location for proposed facilities
up to 100 feet from the proposed location or within a distance that is
equivalent to the width of the public way, whichever is greater. The facilities
operator shall utilize the alternative location unless the facilities operator
shows that the alternative location is not technically feasible.
   (H)   Facilities shall not interfere with existing or planned street trees.
   (I)   Signage shall be mounted on all new facilities providing the
facilities operator’s name, an emergency contact phone number, an informational
contact number. and all other information required by law. Unless otherwise
prohibited by law, signage shall be discreet in color and shall match the
facilities and surrounding area and font size used on the sign shall be no
smaller than 12-point font and no larger than 18-point font.
   (J)   Unless otherwise required by law, all manufacturer stickers and decals
shall be removed from facilities.
   (K)   Facilities shall be camouflaged using existing land forms, vegetation,
and structures to screen the facilities from view and to blend in with the
surrounding built and natural environment.
   (L)   The city may require the facilities operator to incorporate additional
concealment elements before approving an application. Concealment elements may
include, but shall not be limited to, fencing, strategic placement, and
placement within existing or replacement street furniture.
   (M)   Facilities shall not have any flashing lights, sirens or regular noise
other than a cooling fan that may run intermittently.
   (N)   All hardware, including antenna mounting brackets and hardware,
antenna mounting posts, cables, shrouds and other equipment mounted shall be
painted in a matt-black color, and the color shall match on all installed
facilities. The city may require the facilities operator use a different, non-
matching color on a case- by-case basis when the city determines a non-matching
color would better fulfil the purposes of these Design Guidelines.
   (O)   A facilities operator shall remove or paint over any graffiti on the
facilities at facility operator’s sole expense as soon as practicable, but no
later than ten days from the date the facilities operator receives notice of
the graffiti. Permittee shall keep the wireless support structure and related
appurtenances in good and neat order at ail times.
   (P)   Facility operator must remove an existing wireless support structure
within 60 days after a new wireless support structure is installed and
activated.
(Ord. 2019-02-01, passed 3-14-19) Penalty, see §
53.99
§ 53.05 SPECIFICATIONS FOR COLLOCATION.
   (A)   Small cell equipment shall not interfere with the primary purpose of a
wireless support structure.
   (B)   Small cell equipment to be attached to a wireless support structure
shall be attached at least six feet above ground level. If small cell equipment
is projecting toward the street, then the small cell equipment shall be
installed no less than 16 feet above ground level.
(Ord. 2019-02-01, passed 3-14-19)
§ 53.06   ANTENNAS.
   (A)   Antennas and accessory equipment must be capable of fitting within an
enclosure not larger than six cubic feet in volume.
   (B)   Antennas and accessory equipment shall not increase the overall height
of an existing wireless support structure by more than five feet.
   (C)   Antennas mounted on a wireless support structure shall be enclosed
inside the wireless support Structure whenever possible and otherwise within a
canister or other shroud. All accessory equipment associated with the antenna
shall be concealed and shall not visibly protrude from the shroud or canister.
   (D)   The width of the canister or other shroud encasing the antenna and
accessory equipment shall not exceed the width of the narrowest portion of the
wireless support structure.
   (E)   The enclosure or shroud shall be painted to match or complement the
wireless support structure.
   (F)   Antennas shall be installed in a manner that minimizes the visual
impact to the general public.
   (G)   Antennas shall not impair light or views from adjacent window(s).
   (H)   Antennas located on the exterior of a wireless support structure shall
be top-mounted on a wireless support structure. The city may approve a side-
mounted antenna if in the city’s discretion, the side-mounted antenna would be
more appropriate given the built environment, neighborhood character, overall
site appearance or would otherwise promote the purposes in these Design
Guidelines.
(Ord. 2019-02-01, passed 3-14-19)
§ 53.07 WIRELESS SUPPORT STRUCTURE-MOUNTED EQUIPMENT.
   (A)   All wireless support structure-mounted small cell equipment other than
the antenna(s) and electric meter must be concealed within an equipment
cabinet.
   (B)   Equipment cabinets shall be mounted flush to the wireless support
structure.
   (C)   Equipment cabinets shall be stacked together on the same side of the
wireless support structure and oriented away from any windows and doorways to
minimize visual impacts thereupon.
   (D)   The equipment cabinets must be non-reflective and painted in a matt-
black finish, to match the wireless support structure.
(Ord. 2019-02-01, passed 3-14-19)
§ 53.08 GROUND-MOUNTED SMALL CELL EQUIPMENT.
   (A)   The city shall not approve the proposed location of ground-mounted
small cell equipment unless the applicant (1) proposes the ground-mounted
equipment in connection with a collocation, and (2) shows that the equipment
cannot be feasibly placed on the wireless support structure or in an
underground vault.
   (B)   If technically feasible, small cell equipment should be located in a
vault buried underground rather than being ground-mounted. If underground
placement is not technically feasible, ground-mounted small cell equipment
shall be contained in a shroud or cabinet.
   (C)   All ground-mounted small cell equipment shall be installed in a manner
that minimizes the visual and ingress/egress impact to the general public.
   (D)   Ground-mounted small cell equipment shall be placed as far as
practicable from pedestrian sidewalks and shall neither block nor be placed
within the sidewalk in any way.
(Ord. 2019-02-01, passed 3-14-19)
§ 53.09 CABLES.
   (A)   All cables, conduit and wiring shall be located inside conduit and
inside the wireless support structure or an equipment cabinet.
   (B)   Excess cables and wiring shall not be spooled, coiled or otherwise
stored on the exterior of the wireless support structure unless within an
enclosure. Cables shall not be externally visible.
(Ord. 2019-02-01, passed 3-14-19) Penalty, see §
53.99
§ 53.10 ELECTRICAL METERS.
   (A)   Facilities operators are encouraged to use flat-rate electric service
when available in order to eliminate the need for a meter.
   (B)   If A meter is required, then facilities operators shall use the
smallest and least intrusive electric meter available. Whenever permitted by
the electric service provider, the electric meter shall be painted to match the
wireless support structure.
(Ord. 2019-02-01, passed 3-14-19)
§ 53.11 UTILITY LINES.
   Service lines shall be underground to avoid additional overhead lines. The
underground cables and wires must transition directly into the wireless support
structure within a buried pull box or a junction box mounted on the wireless
support structure.
(Ord. 2019-02-01, passed 3-14-19)
§ 53.12 SPECIFICATIONS FOR REPLACEMENT OF WIRELESS SUPPORT STRUCTURES.
   (A)   A facilities operator shall be required to replace an existing
wireless support structure in the following circumstances:
      (1)   The wireless support structure upon which the applicant has
proposed to collocate small cell equipment is deemed incapable of bearing the
added weight of the small cell equipment; or
      (2)   An existing wireless support structure is located within 100 feet
of the proposed site of a new wireless support structure, but the existing
wireless support structure is incapable of bearing the additional weight of the
small cell equipment.
   (B)   Designs for replacement of wireless support structures shall be as
architecturally similar as possible to the existing wireless support structure
to be replaced unless otherwise approved by the city.
      (1)   All luminaire mast arms shall be the same length, arch, and style
as the original luminaire arm, unless otherwise specified by the city.
      (2)   The city may require the facilities operator to install a new metal
wireless support structure rather than a new wood support structure.
   (C)   In those zoning districts where the height limit is greater than 35
feet, the overall height of a replacement wireless support structure, including
proposed collocated antenna, shall not be more than 40 feet in height above
ground level. The overall height of a replacement wireless support structure,
including proposed collocated antenna, shall not be more than 35 feet in height
above ground level in zoning districts where the height limit is 35 feet or
lower, so long as there is no wireless support structure or utility pole taller
than thirty (35) feet located within three-hundred (100) feet of the location
of the proposed replacement wireless support structure.
   (D)   All existing signs, traffic signals, emergency signal detection units,
video detection cameras, video cameras, crosswalk service buttons, crosswalk
signals, and any other pedestrian or traffic devices shall be reinstalled or
replaced with new units by the facilities operator at no cost to the city.
   (E)   The concrete wireless support structure foundation for the original
wireless support structure shall be removed either partially or completely by
the facilities operator as instructed by the city.
      (1)   If partially removed, the original wireless support structure
foundation shall be taken back to a level that is 12 inches below the existing
grade and covered with four inches of one-half (½) inch to three- quarter (3/4)
inch compose of rock material. The remaining eight inches shall be native top
soil.
      (2)   If the entire original wireless support structure foundation must
be removed, then all foundation materials (concrete, rebar, metals, bolts, and
the like) shall be removed. The type of backfill material and compaction
required is: (a) one-half (½) sack slurry for the entire depth in paved areas;
and (b) one-half (½) sack slurry for the entire depth except the top 12 inches
will be native top soil in landscaped areas.
(Ord. 2019-02-01, passed 3-14-19)
§ 53.13   SPECIFICATIONS FOR NEW WIRELESS SUPPORT STRUCTURES.
   (A)   New wireless support structures shall be designed and constructed to
accommodate small cell equipment from at least two wireless service providers
on the same wireless support structure.
   (B)   New wireless support structures shall maintain a distance of 300 feet
from existing monopoles.
   (C)   In residential districts, new wireless support structures shall be
located at the shared property line between two residential parcels where the
parcels intersect the right-of-way.
   (D)   In non-residential districts, new wireless support structures shall be
located between tenant spaces, storefront bays, or adjoining properties at the
shared property lines where the parcels intersect the right-of-way.
   (E)   A new wireless support structure shall not be located in front of a
building entrance or exit.
   (F)   In those zoning districts where the height limit is greater than 35
feet, the overall height of a replacement wireless support structure, including
proposed collocated antenna, shall not be more than 40 feet in height above
ground level. The overall height of a replacement wireless support structure,
including proposed collocated antenna, shall not be more than 35 feet in height
above ground level in zoning districts where the height limit is 35 feet or
lower, so long as there is no wireless support structure or utility pole taller
than thirty (35) feet located within three-hundred (100) feet of the location
of the proposed replacement wireless support structure.
(Ord. 2019-02-01, passed 3-14-19)
§ 53.14   UNDERGROUND AREA REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Subject to subsection (B), a facilities operator shall locate its
facilities underground in an underground area.
   (B)   Facilities operator may replace an existing wireless support structure
or collocate small cell facilities on an existing wireless support structure
even if the wireless support structure is located in an underground area.
   (C)   A facilities operator shall not install a new wireless support
structure in an underground area unless a waiver is granted by the Director.
   (D)   An operator may apply to the city for a waiver of the underground
placement requirement if the requirement prevents the facilities operator from
achieving its service objective and the facilities operator is unable to
achieve its service objective by placing facilities at:
      (1)   A location in the public right-of-way where the prohibition does
not apply;
      (2)   A utility easement the service provider has the right to access;
and
      (3)   Other suitable locations or structures made available by the city
at reasonable rates, fees and terms; or
      (4)   A facilities operator may place an above ground wireless support
structure provided (A), (B), (C) options have been exhausted at a location
mutually agreeable with the city.
(Ord. 2019-02-01, passed 3-14-19)
§ 53.15 RELOCATION OR REMOVAL.
   (A)   The city at all times retains the right to order the modification,
relocation or removal of a wireless support structure within the city right-of-
way for public improvement projects.
   (B)   Any modification, relocation, or removal shall be completed with 120
days of written notice by the city unless exigencies dictate a shorter period
for removal or relocation.
   (C)   Relocation or removal shall require a permit.
   (D)   The permittee shall be entitled, at permittees election, to either a
pro-rata refund of fees paid for the original permit or to a new permit,
without additional fee, at a location as close to the original location as
permissible under this chapter.
   (E)   In the event said facility is not modified, relocated, or removed
within said period, the city may cause the same to be done at the sole cost and
expense of permittee.
   (F)   Structures may be modified, relocated, or removed without notice to
permittee by city for the immediate public safety and welfare, provided notice
is provided to the permittee within three working days following modification,
relocation, or removal.
(Ord. 2019-02-01, passed 3-14-19)
§ 53.16 ANNUAL CERTIFICATION.
   Between June 1 and July 1 of each year that the permitted wireless
communication structure remains in the city right-of-way, the owner permittee
shall submit to the Director an affidavit signed by an authorized
representative of the owner confirming that the facility or support structure
remains in use and remains covered by insurance as required under this chapter.
(Ord. 2019-02-01, passed 3-14-19)
§ 53.17 ELECTRONIC MAGNETIC FREQUENCIES.
   (A)   The city acknowledges that the science of electromagnetic frequencies
(EMF) from wireless frequencies is currently in the early stages of scientific
research. Facility operators assume all legal responsibility for the
installation of small cellular devices including any and all future claims of
health damage associated with the operation of such small cell facilities.
   (B)   At all times, the permittee shall ensure that the facility complies
with the most current industry standards for size and regulatory and
operational standards including, but not limited to, RF emissions standards
adopted by the FCC.
   (C)   Permittee, at its sole expense, shall provide annual tests of RF
emittances to city no later than November 15th of each year.
   (D)   If the Director determines that there is good cause to believe that
the wireless communication facility may emit RF emissions that are likely to
exceed FCC standards, the Director may require the permittee to submit a
technically sufficient written report certified by a qualified independent RF
emission engineer, certifying that the facility is in compliance with such FCC
standards within 90 days.
(Ord. 2019-02-01, passed 3-14-19)
§ 53.18 EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   No city permit shall be required under this chapter to excavate any
portion of a street that is a part of the state highway system and for which a
state permit is required.
   (B)   Exceptions pertaining to any provisions of this chapter, including,
but not limited to, exceptions form findings that would otherwise justify
denial, may be granted by the Director if the Director make the finding that:
      (1)   Denial of the wireless support structure as proposed would violate
federal or state law:
      (2)   A provision of this chapter, as applied to the applicant, would
deprive applicant of its rights under federal or state law:
      (3)   Strict application of this chapter would be contrary to the public
interest because the harm to the public of strict application would be greater
than the harm caused by granting an exception.
   (C)   An applicant may only request an exception under paragraph (B) at the
time of applying for a wireless telecommunications facility permit. The request
must include both the specific provisions of this chapter from which the
exception is sought and the basis of the request. Any request for an exception
after the city has deemed an application compete and accepted it shall be
treated as a new application.
   (D)   The applicant shall have the burden of proving that denial of the
facility as proposed would violate federal or state law, or the provisions of
this chapter, as applied to applicant, would deprive applicant of its rights
under federal or state law, using evidentiary standards required by the law at
issue. The city shall have the right to hire an independent consultant, at the
applicant’s expense, to evaluate the issues raised by the exception request and
shall have the right to submit rebuttal evidence to refute the applicant’s
claim.
(Ord. 2019-02-01, passed 3-14-19)
§ 53.19 RIGHT-OF-WAY MAINTENANCE FEE.
   In exchange for the privilege of non-exclusive occupancy of the city-owned
right of way, the owner of a communications facility or support structure shall
pay an annual usage fee of $350 per year for each tower installed within the
public right of way. The annual use fee shall be payable within 30 days of the
issuance of the franchise agreement and all applicable permitting fees, and
thereafter payable annually on December 1 of each year. Applicant is
responsible for all other applicable fees, including right of way permitting,
pole attachment fees on city facilities, use of publicly owned conduit and any
other fee applicable to the installation, maintenance, and occupation of public
right of way in the City of Crestview Hills.
(Ord. 2019-02-01, passed 3-14-19)
§ 53.99 PENALTIES; EQUITABLE REMEDIES.
   (A)   Any person or entity found guilty of violating, disobeying, omitting,
neglecting or refusing to comply with any of the provisions of this chapter
shall be fined not less than $100 nor more than $500 for each offense. A
separate and distinct offense shall be deemed committed each day during or on
which a violation occurs or continues.
   (B)   If a facilities operator fails to comply with these Design Guidelines,
Chapter 53 of the Codified Ordinances, the city may terminate the facility
operator’s small cell use permit.
   (C)   Nothing in this chapter shall be construed as limiting any judicial
remedies that the city may have, at law or in equity, for enforcement of this
chapter.
(Ord. 2019-02-01, passed 3-14-19)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
      Chapter
         
70.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
         
71.   TRAFFIC RULES
         
72.   PARKING REGULATIONS
         
73.   BICYCLES AND MOTORCYCLES
         
74.   TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
         
75.   PARKING SCHEDULES
CHAPTER 70: GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 70.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this title the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   "AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLES." Vehicles of the Fire Department or Police
Department, vehicles of the Commonwealth Attorney's office when on official
business, and ambulances on an authorized emergency run.
   "BOULEVARD." Any legally designated street at which cross traffic is
required to stop before entering or crossing such boulevard.
   "BUSINESS DISTRICT." Any portion of any street between two consecutive
intersections in which fifty percent (50%) or more of the frontage on either
side of the street is used for business purposes.
   "CHIEF OF POLICE." The Chief of Police or other person or persons authorized
by the legislative body to direct the implementation and enforcement of the
provisions of this traffic code.
   "CROSSWALK." The portion of the roadway included within the extension of the
sidewalk across any intersection, and such other portions of the roadway
between two intersections, as may be legally designated as crossing places and
marked by stanchions, paint lines, or otherwise.
   "CURB." The boundary of that portion of the street used for vehicles whether
marked by curbstones or not.
   "FUNERAL PROCESSION." Two (2) or more vehicles accompanying the body of a
deceased person when each vehicle has its headlights on or is displaying a
pennant attached in such a manner as to be clearly visible to approaching
traffic.
(KRS 189.378(1))
   "INTERSECTION." That part of the public way embraced within the extensions
of the street lines of two (2) or more streets which join at an angle whether
or not one such street crosses the other.
   "OFFICIAL TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES." All signs, signals, warnings,
directions, markings, and devices placed or erected or maintained by authority
of the Chief of Police.
   "ONE-WAY STREET." A street on which vehicles are permitted to move in one
direction only.
   "OPERATOR." Every person who is in actual physical control of the guidance,
starting, and stopping of a vehicle.
   "PARK." When applied to vehicles, to leave a vehicle standing, whether
occupied or not, for a period of time longer than is necessary to receive or
discharge passengers or property.
   "PEDESTRIAN." Any person afoot.
   "PLAY STREET." Any street or portion thereof so designated by the Chief of
Police and reserved as a play area for children, from which all traffic is
barred, except vehicles to and from abutting properties.
   "POLICE DEPARTMENT." The Police Department or other persons or agency
authorized to perform the duties of §
70.03 or any other acts necessary to implement and enforce this traffic code.
   "PUBLIC WAY." The entire width between property lines of every way,
dedicated passway, or street set aside for public travel, except bridle paths
and foot paths.
   "REVERSE TURN." To turn a vehicle on any street in such a manner as to
proceed in the opposite direction.
   "RIGHT-OF-WAY." The privilege of the immediate and preferential use of the
street.
   "ROADWAY." That portion of any street, improved, designated, or ordinarily
used for vehicular travel.
   "SIDEWALK." That portion of the street between the curb and the property
line intended for the use of pedestrians.
   "STOPPING." As applied to vehicles, to stop a vehicle longer than is
actually necessary to receive or discharge passengers.
   "STREET." Every public way, including alleys.
   "TRAFFIC." Pedestrians, ridden or herded animals, vehicles, uses, and other
conveyances, individually or collectively, while using any street for the
purpose of travel.
   "VEHICLE." Includes all agencies for the transportation of persons or
property over or upon the public highways of the Commonwealth and all vehicles
passing over or upon the highways. "MOTOR VEHICLE." Includes all vehicles, as
defined above except, electric low-speed scooters; road rollers; road graders;
farm tractors; vehicles on which power shovels are mounted; construction
equipment customarily used only on the site of construction and which is not
practical for the transportation of persons or property upon the highways;
vehicles that travel exclusively upon rails; vehicles propelled by electric
power obtained from overhead wires while being operated within any municipality
or where the vehicles do not travel more than five (5) miles beyond the city
limits of any municipality; and vehicles propelled by muscular power.
(KRS 189.010(19))
§ 70.02 REQUIRED OBEDIENCE TO TRAFFIC DIRECTIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to fail or refuse to comply with
any lawful order, signal, or direction given by a uniformed police officer, or
to fail or refuse to comply with any of the traffic regulations of this traffic
code.
   (B)   The provisions of this traffic code shall apply to the driver of any
vehicle owned or used in the service of the United States government, this
state, county, or city, and it shall be unlawful for any such driver to violate
any of the provisions of this traffic code, except as otherwise permitted in
this traffic code or by state statute.
   (C)   Every person propelling any pushcart or riding a bicycle or an animal
on any roadway, and every person driving any animal on any roadway, and every
person driving any animal-drawn vehicle shall be subject to the provisions of
this traffic code applicable to the driver of any vehicle, except those
provisions of this traffic code which by their very nature can have no
application.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.03 POWERS AND DUTIES OF POLICE DEPARTMENT.
   It shall be the duty of the Police Department to direct all traffic in
conformance with this traffic code and to enforce the traffic regulations as
set forth in this traffic code, to make arrest for traffic violations, to
investigate accidents, and to cooperate with other officers of the city in the
administration of the traffic laws, and in developing ways and means to improve
traffic conditions.
§ 70.04 AUTHORITY FOR ENFORCEMENT.
   Authority to direct and enforce all traffic regulations of this city in
accordance with the provisions of this traffic code and to make arrests for
traffic violations is given to the Police Department, and, except in case of
emergency, it shall be unlawful for any other person to direct or attempt to
direct traffic by voice, hand, whistle, or any other signal.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.05 TEMPORARY REGULATIONS.
   When required for the convenience and safety of the public and to alleviate
unusual traffic problems, the Chief of Police shall, at his discretion, have
authority to impose such traffic regulations as he may deem necessary for
temporary periods not to exceed (2) two weeks. If these temporary regulations
are necessary for a period longer than two (2) weeks, the City Clerk shall be
notified in writing of the extended order.
§ 70.06 AUTHORITY TO ERECT SIGNS.
   (A)   The Chief of Police is authorized and required to mark with proper
signs and signals such major and through streets as have been or may hereafter
be so designated by ordinances enacted by legislative body.
   (B)   The Chief of Police is authorized and required to erect and maintain
suitable signs for the designation of one-way streets.
§ 70.07 TOWING AND STORAGE OF VEHICLES PENDING PAYMENT OF DELINQUENT CITATIONS
OR VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   The Lakeside Park-Crestview Hills Police Authority members shall have
the obligation, duty, and authority to seize and tow any motor vehicle which a
member may observe in a public place, which has three (3) or more outstanding
citations or violations pending against it, which have been issued by members
of the Police Authority.
   (B)   Upon payment of the delinquent and outstanding citations and
violations together with the towing and storage charges, the vehicle will be
released to the owner. If the seized vehicle remains in storage for a period of
thirty (30) days or longer and the outstanding citations are unpaid, the legal
owner and others known to possess an interest in the motor vehicle shall be
notified of the public auction of the vehicle, and the vehicle shall be sold to
satisfy the outstanding charges and costs against it and the balance, if any,
paid to the legal owner.
(Ord. 86-6-1, passed 3-12-87)
TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES
§ 70.15 SIGNAL LEGENDS.
   Whenever traffic is regulated or controlled exclusively by a traffic-control
sign or signs exhibiting the words "Go," "Caution," or "Stop," or exhibiting
different colored lights for purposes of traffic control, the following colors
only shall be used, and these terms and lights shall indicate and be obeyed as
follows:
   (A)   Green alone or "Go": Vehicular traffic facing the signal may proceed
straight through or turn right or left unless a sign at such place prohibits
either such turn. However, vehicular traffic shall yield the right-of-way to
other vehicles and to pedestrians lawfully within the intersection at the time
such signal is exhibited.
   (B)   Steady yellow alone or "Caution" when shown following the green or
"Go" signal: Vehicular traffic facing a steady yellow signal is thereby warned
that the related green movement is being terminated or that a red indication
will be exhibited immediately thereafter when vehicular traffic shall not enter
the intersection. Vehicular traffic facing a steady yellow signal may enter and
clear the intersection.
   (C)   Red alone or double red or "Stop": Vehicular traffic facing the signal
shall stop before entering the nearest crosswalk at an intersection or at such
other point as may be indicated by a clearly visible line, and shall remain
standing until green or "Go" is shown alone.
   (D)   Flashing red alone: Vehicular traffic facing the signal shall stop
before entering the nearest crosswalk at an intersection or at such other point
as may be indicated by a clearly visible line, and shall not again proceed
until it can do so without danger.
   (E)   Flashing yellow alone: Vehicular traffic facing the signal shall
reduce its speed and proceed cautiously across the intersection controlled by
such signal.
   (F)   "Yield Right-of-Way": Vehicular traffic facing the "Yield Right-of-
Way" sign shall bear the primary responsibility of safely entering the primary
intersecting or merging right-of-way. All traffic facing the sign shall yield
the right-of-way to all vehicles and pedestrians within such primary
intersecting or merging right-of-way. No vehicle facing a "Yield Right-of-Way"
sign shall enter the merging or intersecting right-of-way at a speed in excess
of fifteen (15) miles per hour, except that this speed limit shall not apply to
vehicles entering an expressway.
   (G)   Lane lights: When lane lights are installed over any street for the
purpose of controlling the direction of flow of traffic, vehicular traffic
shall move only in traffic lanes over which green arrows appear. However, when
flashing yellow lights appear above a lane all left turns shall be made from
that lane. Where red arrows appear above such lanes, vehicles shall not move
against them. If flashing yellow lights show above a lane, that lane shall be
used only for passing and for left turns unless a sign at such place prohibits
such turn.
Penalty, see §
70.99
                    
Statutory reference:
   Traffic-control signals, see KRS 189.338
§ 70.16 ESTABLISHMENT AND MAINTENANCE OF TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES.
   The Chief of Police shall determine the character of all official traffic-
control devices and shall have the exclusive right to establish and maintain
all official traffic-control devices in the city, when and as required under
this traffic code, and may place and maintain such additional traffic-control
devices as he may deem necessary. All traffic-control devices shall be the same
general type and all such traffic devices employed to indicate one particular
warning or regulation shall be uniform and as far as possible shall be placed
uniformly. All signs shall conform to those recommended by the National
Conference on Street and Highway Safety.
§ 70.17 OBEDIENCE TO SIGNALS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the driver of any vehicle to disobey the
signal of any official traffic-control device placed in accordance with the
provisions of this traffic code or of a traffic barrier or sign erected by any
of the public departments or public utilities of the city, or any electric
signal, gate, or watchman at railroad crossings, unless otherwise directed by a
police officer. However, the type and the right to or necessity for such
barrier or sign shall be approved by the Chief of Police.
   (B)   Such sign, signal, marking, or barrier shall have the same authority
as the personal direction of a police officer.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.18 INTERFERENCE WITH SIGNALS.
   No person shall without authority attempt to or in fact alter, deface,
injure, knock down, or remove any official control device or any railroad sign
or signal, or any inscription, shield, or insignia thereon, or any part
thereof.
Penalty see §
70.99
§ 70.19 UNAUTHORIZED SIGNALS OR MARKINGS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, maintain, or display on
or in view of any street any unauthorized sign, signal, marking, or device
which purports to be or in an imitation of or resembles an official traffic
device or railroad sign or signal which attempts or purports to direct the
movement of traffic, or which conceals or hides from view or interferes with
the effectiveness of any official control device or any railroad sign or
signal. No person shall place or maintain, nor shall any public authority
permit on any street, any traffic sign or signal bearing any commercial
advertising. Nothing in this section shall be construed as restricting any
public department or public utility of the city in any emergency or temporarily
from marking or erecting any traffic barrier or sign whose placing has been
approved by the Chief of Police.
   (B)   Every prohibited sign, signal, or marking is declared to be a public
nuisance and the Chief of Police is empowered forthwith to remove it or cause
it to be removed.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.20 DEFECTIVE DEVICES.
   No provision of this traffic code for which signs are required shall be
enforceable against an alleged violator if at the time and place of the alleged
violation the sign herein required is not in proper position and sufficiently
legible to be seen by an ordinarily observant person. However, when any
particular section of this traffic code does not state that signs are required,
such section shall be effective without signs being placed to give notice
thereof.
§ 70.21 TEMPORARY CONTROL OF DEVICES.
   In an emergency any police officer may at his discretion disregard traffic-
control lights or signals or established regulations in order to facilitate the
movement of traffic.
§ 70.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any provision of Chapters
70 through
73, where no penalty is specifically provided, shall be fined not more than
$100.
CHAPTER 71: TRAFFIC RULES
OPERATION GENERALLY
§ 71.01 OBSTRUCTING TRAFFIC.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to operate any vehicle or permit it to remain
standing in any street in such manner as to create an obstruction thereof.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to
enter any intersection or crosswalk unless there is sufficient space on the
other side of the intersection or crosswalk to accommodate the vehicle without
obstructing the passage of other vehicles or pedestrians, notwithstanding the
indication of any traffic-control signal which may be located at the
intersection or crosswalk.
   (C)   Any intersection deemed by the Chief of Police to be of special or
critical importance to the movement of traffic shall be caused by him to be
marked in a distinctive manner in order to indicate its importance. Should the
operator of any vehicle enter any intersection so marked when there is
insufficient room on the other side of the intersection to accommodate the
vehicle, the indication of any traffic-control signal notwithstanding, he shall
be deemed to have violated this division rather than division (B) above.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.02 REVERSE OR U TURNS.
   No vehicle shall be turned so as to proceed in the opposite direction within
an intersection or upon any street in a business district or where authorized
signs are erected to prohibit the movement or at any other location unless the
movement can be made with reasonable safety to other users of the street and
without interfering with the safe operation of any traffic that may be affected
by such movement.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.03 BACKING VEHICLES.
   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to back the vehicle at
any intersection for the purpose of executing a turning movement. A vehicle
from any parking position shall be backed by the operator in such manner as to
proceed on the same side of the roadway in the lawful direction of travel.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.04 VEHICLES CROSSING SIDEWALKS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to drive within
any sidewalk space except at a permanent or temporary driveway or by special
permit from the Chief of Police.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to drive the
vehicle out of any alley, driveway, building, or lot and across a sidewalk, or
its extension across the alley, unless the vehicle has been brought to a
complete stop immediately prior to crossing the sidewalk or its extension. On
entering the roadway from the alley, driveway, or building the operator shall
yield the right-of-way to all intending to cross a sidewalk and turn into an
alley from the roadway may do so at low speed and with caution.
Penalty, see §
70.99
ACCIDENTS
§ 71.15 DUTY OF OPERATOR.
   It shall be the duty of the owner of, operator of, or passenger in any motor
vehicle which is involved in an accident in which any person is injured or
property damaged to stop immediately and ascertain the extent of the injury or
damage and render such assistance as may be needed.
Penalty, see §
70.99
                    
Statutory reference:
   Duty in case of accident, see KRS 189.580
§ 71.16 ACCIDENT REPORT.
   The operator, owner, or passenger involved in an accident resulting in the
injury or death of any person, or an accident in which property is damaged,
shall immediately report the accident or property damage to the Police
Department.
Penalty, see §
70.99
PROHIBITIONS
§ 71.25 OPERATOR OF VEHICLE TO DRIVE CAREFULLY.
   (A)   The operator of any vehicle upon a highway shall operate the vehicle
in a careful manner, with regard for the safety and convenience of pedestrians
and other vehicles upon the highway.
   (B)   No person shall willfully operate any vehicle on any highway in such a
manner as to injure the highway.
(KRS 189.290) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.26 FOLLOWING EMERGENCY VEHICLES; DRIVING OVER FIRE HOSE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle not on official
duty to follow an authorized emergency vehicle, traveling in response to a fire
alarm or other emergency, closer than 200 feet, or to park any vehicle within a
block in any direction of the location where these vehicles are responding to a
fire alarm.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle coach to drive
over unprotected hose of the Fire Department when laid down on any street or
private driveway, to be used at any fire, or alarm of fire, or for any other
purpose, without the consent of the Fire Department official in command or on
duty at such point.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.27 SMOKE EMISSION.
   It shall be unlawful to operate any vehicle in such manner as to cause it to
emit unnecessary smoke, gas, or vapor.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.28 VEHICLES TO BE OPERATED ONLY ON PAVED STREETS OR WAYS.
   (A)   Motorized vehicles shall be operated only on public and private
streets, avenues, or ways which are paved and used by the members of the
general public as a street, avenue or way.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to operate a motorized vehicle at any time on a
trail or other unpaved area for pleasure or for no apparent useful purpose.
(Ord. 1988-4-4, passed 5-12-88) Penalty, see §
71.99
FUNERAL PROCESSIONS
§ 71.30 FUNERAL PROCESSIONS.
   (A)   A vehicle in a funeral procession has the right-of-way at an
intersection and may proceed through the intersection if the procession is led
by an escort vehicle displaying flashing yellow, red, or blue lights, except:
      (1)   When the right-of-way is required by an emergency vehicle as
defined by KRS 189.910;
      (2)   When vehicles in the procession are directed otherwise by a police
or safety officer; or
      (3)   When the vehicle is a train or locomotive.
   (B)   Before assuming the right-of-way, a person who drives a vehicle in a
funeral procession shall exercise due caution with regard to crossing traffic.
   (C)   A person who drives a vehicle that is not part of a funeral procession
shall not drive the vehicle between the vehicles of the funeral procession or
otherwise interfere with the progress of the procession, except when:
      (1)   The person is authorized to do so by a police or safety officer; or
      (2)   The vehicle is an emergency vehicle as defined by KRS 189.910.
   (D)   A person who drives a vehicle that is not part of a funeral procession
shall not illuminate the vehicle headlights or engage in any other act for the
purpose of securing the right-of-way granted to funeral processions.
   (E)   The escort vehicle, hearse, or other vehicles in a procession may be
equipped with flashing yellow lights for the purpose of notifying the general
public of the procession and gaining the right-of-way at intersections, or
signaling the end of a procession.
   (F)   Persons authorized to use flashing lights as defined in KRS 189.920
may use them while accompanying a funeral procession to warn traffic that a
procession is approaching or that it is in progress.
   (G)   When a funeral procession is in progress, a person driving a vehicle
not in the procession shall not pass or overtake any vehicle in the procession
unless:
      (1)   The person is directed to do so by a police or safety officer;
      (2)   The procession is on a street, road, or highway outside the
corporate limits of a city, town, or urban-county; or
      (3)   The procession is on an interstate highway or a state parkway.
(KRS 189.378) Penalty, see §
71.99(B)
PARADES
§ 71.40 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   "PARADE." Any parade, march, ceremony, show, exhibition, pageant, or
procession of any kind, or any similar display in or on any street, sidewalk,
park, or other public place in the city.
   "PARADE PERMIT." A permit required by this subchapter.
§ 71.41 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   No person or persons shall engage in, participate in, aid, form, or
start any parade unless a parade permit has been obtained from the Chief of
Police.
   (B)   This subchapter shall not apply to:
      (1)   Funeral processions; or
      (2)   A governmental agency acting within the scope of its functions.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.42 APPLICATION FOR PERMIT.
   A person seeking issuance of a parade permit shall file an application with
the Chief of Police on forms provided by such officer.
   (A)   Filing period. An application for a parade permit shall be filed with
the Chief of Police not less than five (5) days or not more than sixty (60)
days before the date on which it is proposed to conduct the parade.
   (B)   The application for a parade permit shall set forth the following
information:
      (1)   The name, address, and telephone number of the person seeking to
conduct the parade;
      (2)   If the parade is proposed to be conducted for, on behalf of, or by
an organization, the name, address, and telephone number of the headquarters of
the organization and of the authorized and responsible heads of the
organization;
      (3)   The name, address, and telephone number of the person who will be
the parade chairman and who will be responsible for its conduct;
      (4)   The date when the parade is to be conducted;
      (5)   The route to be traveled, the starting point, and the termination
point;
      (6)   The approximate number of persons, animals, and vehicles which will
constitute the parade, the type of animals, if any, and the description of the
vehicles;
      (7)   The hours when the parade will start and terminate;
      (8)   A statement as to whether the parade will occupy all or only a
portion of the width of the streets, sidewalk, park, or other public place
proposed to be traversed;
      (9)   The location by street of any assembly area for the parade;
      (10)   The time at which units of the parade will begin to assemble at
any such assembly area or areas;
      (11)   The interval of space to be maintained between units of the
parade;
      (12)   If the parade is designed to be held by, and on behalf of or for,
any person other than the applicant, the applicant for the permit shall file
with the Chief of Police a communication in writing from the person authorizing
the applicant to apply for the permit on his behalf;
      (13)   Any additional information which the Chief of Police shall find
reasonably necessary to a fair determination as to whether a permit should
issue.
   (C)   There shall be paid at the time of filing an application for a parade
permit a fee of $3.50.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.43 STANDARDS FOR ISSUANCE OF PERMIT.
   The Chief of Police shall issue a permit when, from a consideration of the
application and from other information obtained, he finds that:
   (A)   The conduct of the parade will not substantially interrupt the safe
and orderly movement of other traffic contiguous to its route;
   (B)   The conduct of the parade will not require the diversion of so great a
number of police officers of the city to properly police the line of movement
and the areas contiguous thereto as to prevent normal police protection to the
city;
   (C)   The conduct of the parade will not require the diversion of so great a
number of ambulances as to prevent normal ambulance service to portions of the
city other than that to be occupied by the proposed line of march and areas
contiguous thereto;
   (D)   The concentration of persons, animals, and vehicles at assembly points
of the parade will not unduly interfere with proper fire and police protection
of, or ambulance service to, areas contiguous to the assembly areas;
   (E)   The conduct of the parade will not interfere with the movement of fire
fighting equipment enroute to a fire;
   (F)   The parade is scheduled to move from its point of origin to its point
of termination expeditiously and without unreasonable delays enroute.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.44 NOTICE OF REJECTION OF PERMIT.
   The Chief of Police shall act on the application for a parade permit within
three (3) days, Saturdays, Sundays, and holidays excepted, after filing
thereof. If he disapproves the application, he shall mail to the applicant
within the three (3) days, Saturdays, Sundays, and holidays excepted, after the
date on which the application was filed, a notice of his action stating the
reasons for his denial of the permits.
§ 71.45 APPEAL PROCEDURE WHEN PERMIT DENIED.
   Any person aggrieved shall have the right to appeal the denial of a parade
permit to the legislative body. The appeal shall be taken within thirty (30)
days after notice. The legislative body shall act on the appeal within thirty
(30) days after its receipt.
§ 71.46 ALTERNATIVE PERMIT.
   The Chief of Police, in denying an application for a parade permit, shall be
empowered to authorize the conduct of the parade on a date, at a time, or over
a route different than that named by the applicant. An applicant desiring to
accept an alternate permit shall, within three (3) days after notice of the
action of the Chief of Police, file a written notice of his acceptance with the
Chief of Police. An alternate parade permit shall conform to the requirements
of, and shall have the effect of, a parade permit under this subchapter.
§ 71.47 NOTICE TO CITY AND OTHER OFFICIALS WHEN PERMIT ISSUED.
   Immediately on the issuance of a parade permit, the Chief of Police shall
send a copy thereof to the following persons:
   (A)   The Mayor;
   (B)   The City Attorney;
   (C)   The Fire Chief;
   (D)   The general manager or responsible head of each public utility, the
regular routes of whose vehicles will be affected by the route of the proposed
parade.
§ 71.48 CONTENTS OF PERMIT.
   Each parade permit shall state the following information:
   (A)   Starting time;
   (B)   Minimum speed;
   (C)   Maximum speed;
   (D)   Maximum interval of space to be maintained between the units of the
parade;
   (E)   The portions of the street, sidewalk, park, or other public place to
be traversed that may be occupied by the parade;
   (F)   The maximum length of the parade in miles or fractions thereof;
   (G)   Such other information as the Chief of Police shall find necessary to
the enforcement of this subchapter.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.49 DUTIES OF PERMITTEE.
   A permittee hereunder shall comply with all permit directions and conditions
and with all applicable laws and ordinances. The parade chairman or other
person heading or leading the activity shall carry the parade permit on his
person during the conduct of the parade.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.50 PUBLIC CONDUCT DURING PARADES.
   (A)   Interference. No person shall unreasonably hamper, obstruct, impede,
or interfere with any parade or parade assembly or with any person, vehicle, or
animal participating or used in a parade.
   (B)   Driving through parades. No driver of a vehicle except a police car or
other emergency vehicle shall drive between the vehicles or persons comprising
a parade when such vehicles or persons are in motion and are conspicuously
designated as a parade.
Penalty, see §
70.99
________________
Cross-reference:
   Parking on parade routes, see §
72.07
§ 71.51 REVOCATION OF PERMIT.
   The Chief of Police shall have the authority to revoke a parade permit
issued hereunder on application of the standards for issuance as herein set
forth.
SPEED
§ 71.60 SPEED LIMITS; POSTING.
   (A)   The speed limit for all publicly dedicated streets within the
corporate limits of the city, and other public ways, not designated federal,
county or state roads, shall be limited to twenty-five miles per hour (25
m.p.h.)
   (B)   Speed limit signs shall be posted in significant places within the
corporate limits advising members of the general public of the speed limit.
   (C)   The speed limit on Thomas More Parkway within the corporate limits of
the city and Horse Branch Road within the corporate limits of the city are
fixed at thirty-five miles per hour (35 m.p.h.)
(Ord. 1969-1-1, passed 1-69; Am. Ord. 1997-1-1, passed 2-13-97; Am. Ord. 2001-
4-1, passed 5-10-01) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Persons violating §
71.28, upon conviction, are guilty of a misdemeanor and subject to a fine of
not less than $100 nor more than $500.
(Ord 1988-4-4, passed 5-12-88)
   (B)   Any person who violates §
71.30 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be fined not more than $250 or
imprisoned for not more than ninety (90) days, or both.
(KRS 189.378)
CHAPTER 72: PARKING REGULATIONS
Section
Parking Generally
   
72.01   Obstructional parking; double parking
   
72.02   Manner of parking
   
72.03   Limitations of stopping and parking
   
72.04   Restrictions and prohibitions on designated streets
   
72.05   Parking restricted to allow street cleaning
   
72.06   Parking on city streets during the hours of 3:00 a.m. to 6:00 a.m.
prohibited; towing authorized
   
72.07   Parking on parade route
   
72.08   Parking on off-street facility
   
72.09   Owner responsibility
   
72.10   Parking in parks
   
72.11   Display of parked vehicle for sale
   
72.12   Parking for persons with disabilities
   
72.13   Standing and parking in shopping center area
   
72.14   Parking on unpaved areas
Impounding
   
72.20   City tow lots
   
72.21   Removal of abandoned or illegally parked vehicles
   
72.22   Removal of vehicle by owner-operator
   
72.23   Towing and custodian care charges
   
72.24   Supplemental emergency wrecker service
   
72.25   Release of vehicles from tow lots
   
72.26   Impoundment or immobilization of vehicles
   
72.27   Disposal of impounded vehicles
   
72.28   Citation Appeals Board
Snow Emergency
   
72.35   Announcement of snow emergency
   
72.36   Termination of emergency
   
72.37   Snow emergency routes
   
72.38   Conflicting provisions
   
72.39   Removal of vehicles in violation
   
72.40   Evidence of violation
Fire Lanes
   
72.50   Establishment of fire lanes
 
   
72.99   Penalty
__________________
Statutory reference:
   Revenues from fees, fines, and forfeitures related to parking, see KRS
65.120
PARKING GENERALLY
§ 72.01 OBSTRUCTIONAL PARKING; DOUBLE PARKING.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to leave any vehicle or any other
thing that may be a nuisance, obstruction, or hindrance in or on any street,
alley, or sidewalk within the city, either during the day or night.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to stop or park any vehicle on the
roadway side of any other vehicle stopped or parked at the edge or curb of a
street.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person to park any school bus or any
similar vehicle in excess of a weight of 16,000 pounds on any street or pathway
in the city, except for the loading or unloading of goods, people, or materials
on the street.
(Ord. 2008-2-3, passed 4-10-08; Am. Ord. 2023-08-01, passed 9-14-23) Penalty,
see §
72.99
§ 72.02 MANNER OF PARKING.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to stop or park
the vehicle in a manner other than with its right-hand side toward and parallel
with the curb, except that where parking is permitted on the left side of a
one-way street, the left-hand side shall be so parked, and except for
commercial loading and unloading on one-way streets.
   (B)   No vehicle shall be parked or left standing on any street unless its
two (2) right wheels are within six (6) inches of and parallel with the curb,
except that on one-way streets where parking is permitted on the left side the
two (2) left wheels are to be within six (6) inches of and parallel with the
curb.
   (C)   No vehicle shall be backed to the curb on any street, except that
wagons and trucks may do so when loading and unloading, provided that such
loading and unloading and delivery of property and material shall not consume
more than thirty (30) minutes. Such backing of trucks or wagons is prohibited
at all times and on all streets in the city where any truck or wagon so backed
interferes with the use of the roadway of moving vehicles or occupies road
space within ten (10) feet of the center line of the street.
   (D)   In coordination with the City Administrator, the Chief of Police may
establish diagonal parking at certain places, requiring the parking of vehicles
at a certain angle to the curb and within a certain portion of the roadway
adjacent thereto. However, diagonal parking shall not be established where the
roadway space required therefor would be within ten (10) feet of the center
line of any street. The Public Works Department shall designate such places by
suitable signs, and shall indicate by markings on the pavement the required
angle and the width of the roadway spaces within which such vehicles shall
park.
   (E)   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to so park such
vehicle that any part thereof shall extend beyond the lines marking the side or
the rear of the space assigned for one (1) vehicle.
   (F)   No owner, operator, or person shall park any motor vehicle with the
left side thereof nearest the curb (except on a one-way street where parking is
allowed on the left side), nor at any street crossing, nor shall any motor
vehicle be parked two (2) or more abreast or be assembled or situated so as to
interfere with the flow of traffic on any street.
(Ord. 1979-7-2, passed 7-12-79; Am. Ord. 2023-08-01, passed 9-14-23) Penalty,
see §
72.99
§ 72.03 LIMITATIONS OF STOPPING AND PARKING.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to stop or park
such vehicle, except in a case of real emergency, in compliance with the
provisions of this traffic code, or when directed by a police officer or
traffic sign or signal, at any time in the following places:
      (1)   On the mainly-traveled portion of any roadway or on any other place
in the roadway where vehicles stand in any manner other than as specified in §
72.02.
      (2)   On a sidewalk.
      (3)   In front of sidewalk ramps provided for persons with disabilities.
      (4)   In front of a public or private driveway.
      (5)   Within an intersection or on a crosswalk.
      (6)   At any place where official signs prohibit stopping or parking.
This does not apply to police officers when operating properly identified
vehicles during the performance of their official duties.
      (7)   Within thirty (30) feet of any flashing beacon, traffic sign, or
traffic-control device.
      (8)   On any controlled access highway.
      (9)   Within a highway tunnel.
      (10)   Within fifteen (15) feet of a fire hydrant.
      (11)   In an area between the roadways of a divided highway.
      (12)   No person shall move a vehicle not lawfully under his or her
control into any such prohibited area.
(KRS 189.450(5), (6)) Penalty, see §
72.99
   (B)   The western city-owned parking lot adjoining the City Building shall
be available for general public parking to accommodate businesses located in
the adjacent Crestview Hills Town Center and/or Town Center patrons during the
regular business hours of the Town Center businesses. Unless granted permission
by the Mayor or City Administrator, it shall be illegal for any motor vehicle
operator to park a motor vehicle overnight on the city-owned lot between the
hours of 12:00 a.m. and 6:00 a.m.
   (C)   The parking lot adjoining the Police Department shall not be available
for general public parking at any time, and it shall be illegal for anyone to
park in the lot adjoining the Police Department unless said person is engaged
in business with or for the Police Department or the city.
   (D)   It shall be illegal for anyone to park a motor vehicle in a spot
marked "Reserved For City Purposes" on the city-owned parking lot that adjoins
the City Building. Only city employees or persons engaged in business with or
for the city may park in spots designated as "Reserved for City Purposes".
   (E)   Signs shall be posted advising the public which portions of the city-
owned lot are available for general public parking, and which portions are
designated as either "Reserved For City Purposes'' or "No Parking".
(Ord. 1996-3-1, passed - - ; Am. Ord. 2015-06-01, passed 7-9-15; Am. Ord. 2023-
08-01, passed 9-14-23)
§ 72.04 RESTRICTIONS AND PROHIBITIONS ON DESIGNATED STREETS.
   (A)   The provisions of this section prohibiting the stopping and parking of
a vehicle shall apply at all times or at those times herein specified or as
indicated on official signs, except when it is necessary to stop a vehicle to
avoid conflict with other traffic, or in compliance with the directions of a
police officer or official traffic-control devices.
   (B)   The provisions of this section imposing a time limit on parking shall
not relieve any person from his or her duty to observe other and more
restrictive provisions prohibiting or limiting the stopping or parking of
vehicles in specific places or at specified times.
   (C)   When signs are erected in compliance with the provisions of this
section below giving notice thereof, no person shall park a vehicle at any time
on any street so marked by official signs.
   (D)   When a curb has been painted in compliance with the provisions of
divisions (F) below, no person shall park a vehicle at any time at or adjacent
to any curb so marked.
   (E)   When signs are erected in compliance with the provisions of divisions
(F) below, in each block giving notice thereof, no person shall park a vehicle
on the specified day and/or time on any street so marked.
   (F)   (1)   The Chief of Police or the City Administrator shall determine on
what streets or portions thereof stopping or parking shall be restricted or
prohibited. Whenever under authority of or by this traffic code or any other
ordinance, any parking limit is imposed or parking is prohibited on designated
streets, or parking areas are restricted to parking for persons with
disabilities, it shall be the duty of the Public Works Department to erect
appropriate signs giving notice thereof. However, in lieu of erecting such
signs or in conjunction therewith, the Public Works Department may cause the
face and top of a curb or curbs, at or adjacent to which parking is prohibited
at all times, to be painted a solid yellow color or the appropriate color for
designated handicapped parking.
      (2)   No such regulations or restrictions shall be effective unless the
signs have been erected and are in place, or the curbs are painted yellow, at
the time of any alleged offense, except in the case of those parking
restrictions that by their very nature would not require such signs and
markings.
   (G)   When signs are erected in compliance with this chapter, no person
shall park a vehicle for a time longer than specified on official signs any day
and on any street so marked.
(Am. Ord. 2023-08-01, passed 9-14-23) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.05 PARKING RESTRICTED TO ALLOW STREET CLEANING.
   The Chief of Police or City Administrator is authorized to designate daily
street cleaning areas, and he or she shall provide suitable signs and markings
on the street to be cleaned, restricting parking on that particular day. It
shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to stop on any street so
designated, and that vehicle may be subject to tow, and the costs charged to
the vehicle owner.
(Am. Ord. 2023-08-01, passed 9-14-23) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.06 PARKING ON CITY STREETS DURING THE HOURS OF 3:00 A.M. TO 6:00 A.M.
PROHIBITED; TOWING AUTHORIZED.
   (A)   There shall be no parking of any vehicles on city streets, public
ways, or rights-of-way, from 3:00 a.m. until 6:00 a.m. on any day of the week,
unless the resident has applied for and received an overnight parking pass
issued by the City Administrator or his or her designee.
   (B)   Upon request, the City Administrator, and his or her designee, may
issue to residents a temporary parking pass to permit parking of one (1) or
more vehicles on the city streets, public ways, or rights-of-way from 3:00 a.m.
until 6:00 a.m. due to special circumstances, such as visitors, construction,
moving, or other such circumstances. Said parking pass is a limited privilege
only, and shall not exceed twenty-one (21) consecutive days for any vehicle.
   (C)   (1)   Applications for a parking pass must be made in advance of the
date that the pass will be used. All applications must contain the name of the
person requesting the pass; their address and phone number; the dates for the
overnight pass; and the reason for the request. Requests shall be granted in
the order received, and based upon availability of on-street parking on any
given date. Routine use of parking passes by any household for continued,
ongoing parking or storage of one (1) or more vehicles on the public rights-of-
way or streets shall not be permitted.
      (2)   The City Administrator may in his/her discretion deny issuance of
one (1) or more parking passes to applicants if the City Administrator has
reason to believe that the applicant and/or members of the applicant's
household are abusing the parking pass privilege. Abuse of the parking pass
privilege includes, but is not limited to, any applicant or applicant's
household staggering multiple applications for routine, regular parking of one
(1) or more household vehicles on the public rights-of-way and streets;
misrepresenting the reason for the parking pass; misrepresenting the applicant;
or defacing or altering the parking pass.
   (D)   All permits must be visibly displayed in the vehicle by hanging or
affixing it to the rearview mirror, or placing it on the front dashboard of the
vehicle.
(Ord. 1973-4-2, passed 4-11-73; Am. Ord. 2018-09-01, passed 10-11-18; Am. Ord.
2023-08-01, passed 9-14-23) Penalty, see §
72.99
________________
Cross-reference:
   Removal of abandoned vehicles, see §
72.21 et seq.
§ 72.07 PARKING ON PARADE ROUTE.
   (A)   The Chief of Police or City Administrator is authorized whenever, in
his or her judgment, it is necessary to prohibit or restrict the parking of
vehicles along a street or part thereof constituting a part of the route of a
parade, procession or any other event, or to erect temporary traffic signs to
that effect, and to prohibit and prevent such parking.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to park or leave unattended any vehicle in
violation of such signs or directions.
(Am. Ord. 2023-08-01, passed 9-14-23) Penalty, see §
72.99
________________
Cross-reference:
   Parades, see §§
71.40 through
71.51
§ 72.08 PARKING ON OFF-STREET FACILITY.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the driver of a motor vehicle to park or
abandon the vehicle or drive on or otherwise trespass on another's property, or
on an area developed as an off-street parking facility, without the consent of
the owner, lessee, or person in charge of such property or facility.
   (B)   If at any time a vehicle is parked, abandoned, or otherwise trespasses
in violation of division (A) of this section, the owner, lessee, or person in
charge of the property or facility may have the unauthorized motor vehicle
removed in accordance with the provisions of §§
72.20 through
72.28.
   (C)   Every property owner or operator of an off-street parking facility
shall post signs stating thereon that the property or parking lot or facility
is privately owned and that an unauthorized vehicle will be removed at the
owner's expense, before exercising the authority granted in division (B).
(Am. Ord. 2023-08-01, passed 9-14-23) Penalty, see §
72.99
____________________
Statutory reference:
   Removal of vehicles by owners of private parking lots; signs, see KRS
189.725
§ 72.09 OWNER RESPONSIBILITY.
   If any vehicle is found illegally parked in violation of any provisions of
this subchapter regulating stopping, standing, or parking of vehicles, and the
identity of the driver cannot be determined, the owner or person in whose name
the vehicle is registered shall be held prima facie responsible for the
violation.
(Am. Ord. 2023-08-01, passed 9-14-23) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.10 PARKING IN PARKS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to park any motor vehicle in or on any
section of any public park, playground, play lot, or tot lot within the city
not designed as a parking area.
(Am. Ord. 2023-08-01, passed 9-14-23) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.11 DISPLAY OF PARKED VEHICLE FOR SALE.
   It shall be unlawful to park a motor vehicle displayed for sale or a motor
vehicle on which demonstrations are being made on any street.
(Am. Ord. 2023-08-01, passed 9-14-23) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.12 PARKING FOR PERSONS WITH DISABILITIES.
   (A)   Any other provision to the contrary notwithstanding, a motor vehicle
bearing a decal in its front windshield issued by the County Clerk or other
applicable governmental authority for persons with disabilities, when operated
by persons with disabilities or when transporting persons with disabilities,
may be parked in a designated parking place for persons with disabilities. The
motor vehicle may be parked in a loading zone for that period of time necessary
to permit entrance or exit of the persons with disabilities to or from the
parked vehicle, but in no circumstances longer than thirty (30) minutes.
   (B)   This section shall not permit parking in a "no stopping" or "no
parking" zone, nor where parking is prohibited for the purpose of creating a
fire lane or to accommodate heavy traffic during morning, afternoon, or evening
hours, nor permit a motor vehicle to be parked in such a manner as to
constitute a traffic hazard.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person who is not physically disabled to
park in areas reserved and designated as reserved as parking areas for the
physically disabled.
(Ord. 1981-2-3, passed 3-12-81; Am. Ord. 2023-08-01, passed 9-14-23) Penalty,
see §
72.99
§ 72.13 STANDING AND PARKING IN SHOPPING CENTER AREA.
   (A)   The parking or standing of motor vehicles, whether attended or
unattended, next to or contiguous with the sidewalk area surrounding the
perimeter of the buildings comprising the main buildings of the shopping center
is prohibited.
   (B)   Signs indicating that the parking or standing of motor vehicles is
prohibited shall be erected at appropriate places and intervals to advise the
public that the area is restricted.
(Ord. 1979-12-3, passed 12-13-79; Am. Ord. 2023-08-01, passed 9-14-23) Penalty,
see §
72.99
§ 72.14 PARKING ON UNPAVED AREAS.
   It is illegal to park motor vehicles on unpaved areas within the city. Such
vehicles parked in violation of this chapter are subject to tow by the order of
the Police Department, at the cost of the owner.
(Ord. 1981-5-1, passed 5-14-81; Am. Ord. 2023-08-01, passed 9-14-23) Penalty,
see §
72.99
IMPOUNDING
§ 72.20 CITY TOW LOTS.
   City tow lots shall be under the direction of the Chief of Police who shall
designate a custodian responsible for their operation.
(Am. Ord. 2023-08-01, passed 9-14-23)
§ 72.21 REMOVAL OF ABANDONED OR ILLEGALLY PARKED VEHICLES.
   All motor vehicles abandoned or illegally parked on the public streets and
ways of the city, or parked in violation of this chapter shall be removed at
the direction of the Police Department by a city wrecker or by contract wrecker
employed by the Police Department or the city. A vehicle shall be deemed
abandoned if parked on a city street for more than twenty-four (24) hours.
(Am. Ord. 2023-08-01, passed 9-14-23)
                
Cross-reference:
   Towing and storage of vehicles pending payment of delinquent citations or
violations, see §
70.07
§ 72.22 REMOVAL OF VEHICLE BY OWNER-OPERATOR.
   (A)   (1)   An abandoned or illegally parked vehicle may be removed by the
owner or operator of the vehicle at any time prior to the vehicle becoming
physically attached to a wrecker or tow truck.
      (2)   After a vehicle has been physically attached to a wrecker, but
before the wrecker has left the scene, the owner or operator of the vehicle may
take possession of the vehicle only on payment to the wrecker driver of a
reasonable fee in return for which the wrecker driver shall issue a release to
the owner or operator. Such release shall be in the form of a receipt, signed
by the driver of the wrecker, acknowledging the applicable payment. Upon the
request of the Police Department, each driver of a city wrecker and driver or
owner of each contract wrecker shall make a report to the Police Department of
each such release issued during the preceding twenty-four (24) hour period, and
shall remit with the report all fees collected during that period.
   (B)   Neither the removal of a vehicle by an owner or operator as referred
to in division (A)(1), nor the issuance of the release referred to in division
(A)(2), shall be construed as relieving the owner or operator of any such
vehicle from responsibility for any violation of the traffic code with which he
or she may be charged.
(Am. Ord. 2023-08-01, passed 9-14-23)
§ 72.23 TOWING AND CUSTODIAN CARE CHARGES.
   The Police Department shall have the authority to set caps for fees charged
by its contracted towing service.
(Am. Ord. 2023-08-01, passed 9-14-23)
§ 72.24 SUPPLEMENTAL EMERGENCY WRECKER SERVICE.
   The city or Police Department shall contract with independent wreckers and
award contracts for at least a one (1) year period. The independent wreckers
shall furnish supplementary emergency wrecker services and these services shall
be performed on a twenty-four (24) hour basis in lieu of the regular city
wreckers. The wrecker's qualifications shall be determined by the Chief of
Police. The wreckers shall be equipped to perform the services with efficiency
to conform with the charges set forth by §§
72.22(A)(2) and
72.23(A) and (B). The contractor is to protect the city and police authority/
Police Department by furnishing insurance fully covered as to public liability,
property damage, cargo, workman's compensation, and any other insurance
necessary in the performance of its duties.
(Am. Ord. 2023-08-01, passed 9-14-23)
§ 72.25 RELEASE OF VEHICLES FROM TOW LOTS.
   No motor vehicle shall be released by the custodian of a city tow lot except
on written order from the Police Department, a court order, or the order of an
applicable governmental authority.
(Am. Ord. 2023-08-01, passed 9-14-23)
§ 72.26 IMPOUNDMENT OR IMMOBILIZATION OF VEHICLES.
   (A)   Any police officer may impound or immobilize any vehicle parked,
stopped or standing upon a street or public way in violation of any of the
provisions of this chapter or the Kentucky Revised Statutes, prohibiting
parking, stopping or standing in the location, manner or at the time the
vehicle is cited, or if such vehicle currently has any outstanding delinquent
parking tickets, or for any other lawful reason. Any person desiring to redeem
any such impounded or immobilized vehicle, in addition to the fines levied,
including payment of all outstanding fines levied for any parking or traffic
offense, shall also be liable for a fine and towing, handling and storage
charges which are reasonable. An impounded vehicle shall be released only upon
proof of ownership or right to possession.
   (B)   Any owner of an impounded motor vehicle shall have the right to
request a hearing before the City Parking Citation Appeals Board to determine
the validity of such impoundment under the terms and conditions as set forth in
KRS 82.625 or other applicable statute.
(Ord. 2023-08-01, passed 9-14-23)
§ 72.27 DISPOSAL OF IMPOUNDED VEHICLES.
   (A)   If within ten (10) business days of impoundment, any motor vehicle so
impounded has not been claimed or a hearing has not been requested to determine
the validity of such impoundment pursuant to KRS 82.625 or other applicable
statute, notice shall be mailed by certified mail to the registered owner, if
known, and lienholders of record, if any, affording the parties the right,
within ten (10) days from the date of notice, to claim the vehicle or request a
hearing pursuant to KRS 82.625 or other applicable statute. The notice shall
state that, if no hearing is requested, the vehicle shall be deemed abandoned
unless the charges thereon are paid within forty-five (45) days of receipt of
notice.
   (B)   After forty-five (45) days from the date of notice required by
division (A) of this section, an impounded motor vehicle shall be deemed
abandoned and may be disposed of as provided by state statute. Any proceeds
from the sale of an abandoned vehicle shall be deposited into the City General
Fund.
   (C)   If the vehicle is judged suitable for use, the city may obtain a
certificate of registration and ownership from the County Clerk, pursuant to
KRS 186.020 or other applicable statute, and either use the vehicle for
governmental purposes or sell the vehicle at public auction to the highest
bidder. If the vehicle is not suitable for use, it may be sold for its scrap or
junk value.
   (D)   The city shall possess a lien on a motor vehicle impounded pursuant to
KRS 82.625 for all fines, penalties and towing, handling and storage charges
imposed thereon. The lien shall be superior to and have priority over all other
liens thereon.
(Ord. 2023-08-01, passed 9-14-23)
§ 72.28 CITATION APPEALS BOARD.
   All contested parking citations and impoundments shall be heard by the
Crestview Hills City Parking Citation Appeals Board who is empowered to conduct
such hearings pursuant to KRS 82.605 to 82.640. In addition, the Board shall be
empowered to hear appeals of certain other Crestview Hills ordinance
violations, if specified by the applicable section of the Code of Ordinances.
The Mayor shall appoint one (1) City Council member and two (2) citizen members
to serve on this board (one (1) of the citizen members may also be a City
Council member, if desired by the Mayor).
(Ord. 2023-08-01, passed 9-14-23; Am. Ord. 2024-08-01, passed 9-12-24)
SNOW EMERGENCY
§ 72.35 ANNOUNCEMENT OF SNOW EMERGENCY.
   (A)   Whenever the Mayor or his or her designee finds, on the basis of
falling snow, sleet, or freezing rain, or a forecast of snow, sleet, or
freezing rain, that weather conditions will make it necessary that motor
vehicle traffic be expedited and that parking on city streets be prohibited or
restricted for snow plowing and other purposes, the Mayor or his or her
designee shall put into effect a parking prohibition on parts of, or all
streets within the city as he or she deems necessary, by declaring it in a
manner prescribed by this subchapter.
   (B)   Once in effect, a prohibition under this subchapter shall remain in
effect until terminated by announcement of the Mayor or his or her designee in
accordance with this subchapter, except that any street area which has become
substantially clear of snow and ice from curb to curb for the length of the
entire street shall be automatically excluded therefrom. While the prohibition
is in effect, no person shall park or allow to remain parked any vehicle on any
portion of a snow emergency route to which it applies.
   (C)   The Mayor shall cause each declaration made by him or her pursuant to
this subchapter to be publicly announced by means of broadcasts from local
stations with a normal operating range covering the city. Each announcement
shall describe the action taken by the Mayor or his or her designee, including
the time it became or will become effective, and shall specify the streets or
areas affected. A parking prohibition declared by the Mayor, or his or her
designee, shall not go into effect until at least two (2) hours after it has
been announced, in accordance with this subchapter.
(Ord. 1978-12-1, passed 12-14-78; Am. Ord. 2023-08-01, passed 9-14-23) Penalty,
see §
72.99
§ 72.36 TERMINATION OF EMERGENCY.
   Whenever the Chief of Police shall find that some or all of the conditions
which gave rise to a parking prohibition in effect pursuant to this subchapter
no longer exist, he or she shall request that the Mayor, or his or her
desginee, declare the prohibition terminated, in whole or in part, in a manner
prescribed by this subchapter, effective immediately upon announcement.
(Ord. 1978-12-1, passed 12-14-78; Am. Ord. 2023-08-01, passed 9-14-23)
§ 72.37 SNOW EMERGENCY ROUTES.
   All publicly maintained city streets are considered to be snow emergency
routes.
(Ord. 1978-12-1, passed 12-14-78; Am. Ord. 2023-08-01, passed 9-14-23)
§ 72.38 CONFLICTING PROVISIONS.
   Any provision of this subchapter that becomes effective by declaration of
the Mayor shall, while temporarily in effect, take precedence over other
conflicting provisions of law normally in effect, except that it shall not take
precedence over provisions of law relating to traffic accidents, emergency
travel of authorized emergency vehicles, or emergency traffic directions by a
police officer.
(Ord. 1978-12-1, passed 12-14-78; Am. Ord. 2023-08-01, passed 9-14-23)
§ 72.39 REMOVAL OF VEHICLES IN VIOLATION.
   (A)   Members of the Police Department are authorized to remove or have
removed a vehicle from a street to the nearest garage or other place of safety
(including another place on a street, or to a garage designated or maintained
by the Police Department, or otherwise maintained by this city, when:
      (1)   The vehicle is parked on a part of a snow emergency route on which
a parking prohibition is in effect.
      (2)   The vehicle is stalled on a part of a snow emergency route on which
there is a covering of snow, sleet, or ice or on which there is a parking
prohibition in effect and the person who was operating such vehicle does not
appear to be removing it in accordance with the provisions of this subchapter.
      (3)   The vehicle is parked in violation of any parking ordinance or
provision of law and is interfering or about to interfere with snow removal
operations.
   (B)   Whenever an officer removes or has removed a vehicle from a street as
authorized in this section, and the officer knows or is able to ascertain from
the registration records in the vehicle the name and address of the owner
thereof, such officer shall immediately give or cause to be given notice in
writing to the owner of the fact of the removal, and the reasons therefor, and
of the place to which such vehicle has been removed. In the event that any
vehicle is stored in a public garage, a copy of the notice shall be given to
the proprietor of the garage.
   (C)   Whenever an officer removes or has removed a vehicle from a street
under this section, and does not know and is not able to ascertain the name of
the owner, or for any other reason is unable to give the notice to the owner as
hereinbefore provided, and in the event the vehicle is not returned to the
owner within a period of three (3) days, then and in that event the officer
shall notify any applicable state agency, and shall file a copy of such notice,
if one is required, with the proprietor of any public garage in which the
vehicle may be stored. The notice shall include a complete description of the
vehicle, the date, time, and place from which it was removed, the reasons for
its removal, and name of the garage or place where the vehicle is stored.
   (D)   No person shall recover any vehicle removed in accordance with this
section except as provided herein. Before the owner or person in charge of the
vehicle shall be allowed to recover it from the place where it has been placed
or impounded, he or she shall present to a member of the Police Department
evidence of his or her identity and right to possession of the vehicle, and
shall sign a receipt for its return, shall pay the cost of its removal any the
cost of any storage accrued. Until paid, these charges constitute a lien on the
vehicle, which may be enforced in the same manner as a garage keeper's lien in
accordance with the provisions of KRS 376.280.
   (E)   It shall be the duty of the Police Department to keep a record of each
vehicle removed in accordance with this section. The record shall include a
description of the vehicle, its license number, the date and time of its
removal, where it was removed from, its location, the name and address of its
owner and last operator, if known, its final disposition, and the parking
violation involved.
   (F)   This section shall be supplemental to any other provisions of law
granting members of the Police Department authority to remove vehicles.
(Ord. 1978-12-1, passed 12-14-78; Am. Ord. 2023-08-01, passed 9-14-23)
§ 72.40 EVIDENCE OF VIOLATION.
   In any prosecution with regard to a vehicle parked or left in a place or in
a condition in violation of any provisions of this subchapter, proof that the
particular vehicle described in the complaint was parked or left in violation
of a provision of this subchapter, together with proof that the defendant named
in the complaint was at the time the registered owner of such vehicle, shall
constitute prima facie evidence that the defendant was the person who parked or
left the vehicle in violation of this subchapter.
(Ord. 1978-12-1, passed 12-14-78; Am. Ord. 2023-08-01, passed 9-14-23)
FIRE LANES
§ 72.50 ESTABLISHMENT OF FIRE LANES.
   (A)   Fire lanes and parking areas shall be established on all city streets
and shall be so designated by the Mayor or her or her designee.
   (B)   No person shall be deemed in violation of this section unless the fire
lane has been posted, in which event the violator shall be subject to the
reasonable cost of towing of the vehicle in violation, as well as the penalties
provided for violation of this section.
(Ord. 1970-10-1, passed 10-7-70; Am. Ord. 2023-08-01, passed 9-14-23)   
Penalty, see §
72.99
                  
Cross-reference:
   Fire lanes designated, see
Chapter 75 Schedule I
§ 72.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Whoever violates §
72.06 shall be fined five dollars ($5) for each violation. Accumulation of
three or more unpaid violations per vehicle may result in that vehicle being
towed at the owner's expense.
(Ord. 1985-8-1, passed - -)
   (B)   Whoever violates any provision of §
72.12 shall be fined twenty-five dollars ($25).
   (C)   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter or the schedule in
Chapter 75 for which no penalty is otherwise specifically provided, shall be
fined fifteen dollars ($15).
(Ord. 1984-4-1, passed 5-10-84)
   (D)   For the violation of §
72.03(B), (C), or (D), the operator or owner of a motor vehicle shall be
subject to a civil penalty of ten dollars ($10.00) for each separate violation.
In addition, the motor vehicle in violation shall be subject to towing, the
costs of which shall be the debt of the owner/operator.
(Ord. 1996-3-1, passed - - ; Am. Ord. 2015-06-01, passed 7-9-15)
   (E)   Violation of §
72.01(C) shall be punishable by a fine of twenty-five dollars ($25). In
addition, the motor vehicle in violation shall be subject to towing, the costs
of which shall be the obligation/debt of the owner/operator of the vehicle.
(Ord. 2008-2-3, passed 4-10-08; Am. Ord. 2018-09-01, passed 10-11-18; Am. Ord.
2023-08-01, passed 9-14-23)
CHAPTER 73: BICYCLES AND MOTORCYCLES
________________
Cross-reference:
   Required obedience to traffic directions, see §
70.02 (C)
§ 73.01 OPERATION OF BICYCLES.
   (A)   No person shall operate a bicycle on the sidewalks of the city.
   (B)    No person shall operate a bicycle on any section of a public park,
playground, play lot, or tot lot, except on a roadway or in a parking area.
   (C)   No operator of any bicycle shall carry another person on such bicycle.
   (D)   Persons making a left turn are required to extend the left arm out
horizontally. Right turns shall be indicated by extending the left arm out
horizontally and turned upward at the elbow. A stop or slowing of a bicycle
shall be indicated by extending either arm out horizontally and turned down at
the elbow.
Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.02 OPERATION OF MOTORCYCLES AND MOTORSCOOTERS.
   (A)   No operator of any motorcycle, motorscooter, or power-driven bicycle
shall carry another person except on a seat attached thereto or in a side car
attached to the vehicle.
   (B)   No operator of a motorcycle, motorscooter, or power-driven bicycle
shall operate such vehicle in any public park, except on a roadway or in a
parking area.
   (C)   No operator of a motorcycle, motorscooter, or power-driven bicycle
shall operate such vehicle in any play lot or tot lot.
Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.03 SKATING AND COASTING.
   Except on streets which may be declared from time to time as "play streets"
by the Chief of Police and protected by barriers or official signs, it shall be
unlawful for any person on skates or riding on a coaster sled or toy vehicle of
any kind, to go on any roadway except at a crosswalk.
Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.04 CLINGING TO VEHICLES.
   (A)   No person while riding on a bicycle, coaster sled, roller skates, or
any toy vehicle shall cling to any moving vehicle on any street, or fasten or
attach the vehicle on which he is riding thereto.
   (B)   No person shall ride on the projection, running board, or fenders of
any vehicle.
Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter shall be fined not more than
$50.
CHAPTER 74: TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
Schedule
   
I.   Stop sign intersections
SCHEDULE I. STOP SIGN INTERSECTIONS.
   Stop signs controlling the flow of vehicular and motor vehicular traffic
within the city limits are deemed necessary for the health, safety, and welfare
of citizens of the city and members of the general public at the following
locations:
Stop Sign On At Intersection With
Stop Sign On                             At Intersection With
Bryan Station Lane                       Springside Drive
Calumet Court                            Claiborne Court
Calumet Court                            Lookout Farm Drive
Campus Drive                             College Park Drive
Campus Drive                             Dudley Road
Centre View Boulevard                    Chancellor Drive
Centre View Boulevard                    Rhine Valley Lane
Chancellor Drive                         Centre View Boulevard
Chapel Place                             Centre View Boulevard
Claiborne Court                          Calumet Drive
Claiborne Court                          Lookout Farm Drive
College Park Drive                       Fraternity Court
College Park Drive                       Turkeyfoot Road
Copper Coin Place                        War Horse Place
Crown Point Circle                       Shinkle Road
Crown Point Circle egress                Crown Point Circle
Darby Dan Court                          Lookout Farm Drive
Day Care Drive (School and Dr.'s Office) Legends Way
Dixie Lane                               Parkway Avenue
Dixie Lane                               Summit Drive
Driveway of Lookout Farm Clubhouse       Lookout Farm Drive
Driveway of Summit Hills Country Club    Dudley Road
Driveway of Thomas More Park             Thomas More Parkway
Druid Lane                               Rossmoyne Avenue
Flottman Printing egress                 Centreview Boulevard
Five Seasons egresses                    Thomas More Parkway
Fraternity Court                         College Park Drive
Hurstland Court                          Shaker Heights Lane
Leatherwood Court                        War Horse Place
Legends Way                              Palmer Court
Lookout Farm Drive                       Claiborne Court
Lookout Farm Drive                       Shinkle Road
Main Chase Lane                          Lookout Farm Drive
Man O War Court                          Claiborne Court
Mansion Place                            Lookout Farm Drive
Napa Valley Lane                         Rhine Valley Lane
Palmeadow Drive                          Shinkle Road
Palmeadow Drive                          Parrish Hill Lane
Palmer Court                             Legends Way
Parkway Drive                            Dixie Highway
Parkway Drive                            Vernon Avenue
Parkway Drive                            Winding Way
Rennaisance Drive                        Thomas More Parkway
Rennaisance Drive (West Exit)            Thomas More Parkway
Rhine Valley Lane                        Centre View Boulevard
Rhine Valley Lane                        Horsebranch Road
Right Fork Road                          Horsebranch Road
Rose Terrace                             Dixie Highway
Rosemont                                 Winding Way
Rossmoyne Avenue                         Druid Lane
Rossmoyne Avenue                         Vernon Avenue
Rossmoyne Avenue                         Winding Way
Saxony Drive                             Shinkle Road
Secretariat Court                        Shinkle Road
Shaker Heights Lane                      Lookout Farm Drive
Shinkle Road                             Lookout Farm Drive
Shinkle Road                             Secretariat Court
Shinkle Road                             Springside
Sorority Court                           College Park Drive
Springside Drive                         Shinkle Road
Summer Lane                              Shinkle Road
Summit Drive                             Dixie Lane
Summit Drive                             Vernon Avenue
Sunset Drive                             Vernon Avenue
Sunset Drive                             Winding Way
Town Center Boulevard                    Entrance and exit to Crestview Hills
                                         Town Center
Town Center Egress                       Town Center Boulevard
Trevino Ridge                            Legends Way
University Circle                        College Park Drive
Varsity Court                            Campus Drive
Vernon Avenue                            Summit Drive
Villa Madonna Drive                      Turkeyfoot Road
Villa Madonna Drive                      Thomas More Parkway
Violet Drive                             Rose Terrace
War Horse Place                          Shinkle Road
Warwick Court                            Rossmoyne Avenue
Whitehouse Drive                         Dixie Highway
Winding Way                              Sunset Drive
Woodspoint Drive                         Winding Way
 
(Ord. 1986-7-4, passed 9-11-86; Am. Ord. 1987-6-1, passed 7-9-87; Am. Ord.
1988-7-3, passed 8-11-88; Am. Ord. 1996-8-4, passed - -; Am. ord. 2000-12-3,
passed 1-11-01; Am. Ord. 2001-6-1, passed 7-12-01; Am. Ord. 2007-9-1, passed
10-11-07; Am. Ord. 2022-02-01, passed 3-10-22) Penalty, see §
70.99
CHAPTER 75: PARKING SCHEDULES
SCHEDULE I. FIRE LANES.
   The following named streets within the city limits shall have a fire
emergency lane located thereon which restricts the parking and unattended
stopping of motor vehicles in the area so marked or noticed. Signs shall be
erected at reasonable intervals to advise the motoring public of the parking
prohibition. The parking restriction is located on the right or left side of
each street as follows:
Street Restricted Side
Street       Restricted Side
Almahurst
Court        Odd numbered side of the street
(Private)
Brookdale
Court        Even numbered side of the street
(Private)
Bryan
Station Lane Odd numbered side of the street
(Private)
Calumet      Even numbered side of the street
Court
Campus Drive Even numbered side of the street
Centre View  Both sides of the street, except for street parking spaces
Boulevard    directly in front of Centre View Park
Champions
Way          Odd numbered side of the street
(Private)
Chancellor   Odd numbered side of the street from Thomas More Parkway to Centre
Drive        View Boulevard
Chancellor   Even side of the street from Centre View Boulevard to end
Drive
Claiborne    Even numbered side of the street from Lookout Farm Drive to Circle
Court
Claiborne    Odd numbered side of the street from Lookout Farm Drive to Calumet
Court        Court
College Park Even numbered side of the street
Drive
Copper Coin
Place        Odd numbered side of the street
(Private)
Crown Point  Odd numbered side of the street
Circle
Darby Dan    Even numbered side of the street
Court
Day Care
Drive        Both sides of the street from Legends Way to school/daycare
(Private)
Day Care
Drive        Even numbered side of the street from Legends Way to street end
(Private)
Dixie Lane   Both sides of the street
Druid Lane   Even numbered side of the street
Duntreath
Court        Even numbered side of the street
(Private)
Elmsmead
Court        Even numbered side of the street
(Private)
Fraternity   Even numbered side of the street
Court
Horsebranch  No parking on both sides of the street
Road
Hurstland
Court        Even numbered side of the street
(Private)
Leatherwood
Court        Even numbered side of the street
(Private)
Legends Way  Even numbered side of the street
Lookout Farm No parking on both sides of the street from Dixie Highway to
Drive        Shinkle Road (unless indicated otherwise by city-maintained
             signage)
Lookout Farm Even numbered side of the street from Shinkle Road to Claiborne
Drive        Court
Lookout Farm Odd numbered side of the street from Claiborne to dead-end
Drive
Main Chase
Lane         Even numbered side of the street
(Private)
Man O War    Odd numbered side of the street
Court
Mansion
Place        Even numbered side of the street
(Private)
Nicholaus
Court        Even numbered side of the street
(Private)
Palmeadow
Drive        Even numbered side of the street
(Private)
Palmer Court Even numbered side of the street, south of Legends Way
(Private)
Palmer Court Odd numbered side of the street, north of Legends Way
(Private)
Parkway      Odd numbered side of the street
Avenue
Parrish Hill Side of the street with address numbers 2401 — 2407 and 2406 —
(Private)    2396
Rhine Valley Both sides of the street
Lane
Rose Terrace Odd numbered side of the street
Rosemont     Odd numbered side of the street
Avenue
Rossmoyne    Odd numbered side of the street
Avenue
Saxony Court Even numbered side of the street
(Private)
Secretariat
Court        Even numbered side of the street
(Private)
Shaker
Heights Lane Even numbered side of the street
(Private)
Shinkle Road Both sides of the street
Shinkle Road
(last 200
feet         Both sides of the street
approx.)
(Private)
Sorority     Even numbered side of the street
Court
Spindletop
Court        Even numbered side of the street
(Private)
Springside
Court        Odd numbered side of the street
(Private)
Steelway
Farm Court   Even numbered side of the street
(Private)
Summer Lane  Odd numbered side of the street
(Private)
Summit Drive Both sides of the street from Dixie Highway to Dixie Lane
Summit Drive Even side of the street from Dixie Lane to Vernon Avenue
Sunset       Odd numbered side of the street
Avenue
Thomas More  No parking both sides of the street
Parkway
Town Center  Both sides of the street
Boulevard
Trevino      Odd numbered side of the street
Ridge
University   Even numbered side of the street
Circle
Varsity      Odd numbered side of the street
Court
Vernon       Odd numbered side of the street
Avenue
Violet       Even numbered side of the street
War Horse
Place        Even numbered side of the street
(Private)
Warwick      Odd numbered side of the street
Court
Whitney
Court        Even numbered side of the street
(Private)
Winding Way  Odd numbered side of the street
Woodspoint   Even numbered side of the street
Drive
 
Note: W/B (Westbound), E/B (Eastbound), S/B (Southbound), N/B (Northbound)
(Am. Ord. 2000-12-3, passed 1-11-01; Am. Ord. 2022-02-01, passed 3-10-22)
Penalty, see §
72.99 (C)
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
      Chapter
         
90.   ANIMALS
         
91.   STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
         
92.   NUISANCES
         
93.   FIRE PREVENTION, FIREWORKS, AND EXPLOSIVES
         
94.   LITTERING
         
95.   TAXATION
         
96.   ALARM DROPS
         
97.    PARKS AND RECREATION
CHAPTER 90: ANIMALS
Section
General Provisions
   
90.01   Definitions
   
90.02   Removal of animal excrement
   
90.03   Powers of Animal Services
   
90.04   Adoption and mandatory spay/neuter
   
90.05   Dog/cat licensing
   
90.06   Rabies vaccination
   
90.07   Humane treatment of animals
   
90.08   Animals to be under control
   
90.09   Wild and exotic animals
   
90.10   Humane societies; standards and licensing
   
90.11   Habitual violator
Commercial Animal Establishments
   
90.20   Definition
   
90.21   Licensing provisions
   
90.22   Minimum standards
   
90.23   Inspections
Carriage Horse Business
   
90.30   Definitions
   
90.31   Licensing provisions
   
90.32   Standards
Fowl
   
90.40   Regulations applicable to fowl
 
   
90.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 90.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   "ABANDON." Any animal left more than forty-eight (48) hours without a person
checking on the condition of the animal and providing food and potable water or
not providing a timed feeder/waterer. Any animal left on private property
without the owner’s consent or deserted or dumped on public property or
roadways.
   "ADEQUATE FOOD." Wholesome food suitable for the species provided at
suitable intervals in a sanitary manner in quantities sufficient to maintain
good health in an animal, considering its age and condition.
   "ADEQUATE SHELTER, DOMESTIC ANIMALS." Shall be provided to any animal(s),
with the exception of livestock, that remain outside more than one (1)
continuous hour per day. The shelter must be suitable for the species, age, and
condition of the animal. The shelter shall:
      (1)   Be structurally sound, with a solid, level, raised floor, enclosed
sides or walls, and must be properly ventilated. The shelter shall be sanitary
and weather/waterproof. Suitable drainage must be provided so that water is not
standing in or around the structure;
      (2)   Be small enough to allow the animal's body heat to warm the
interior of the structure but be large enough to allow the animal to stand up,
turn around, and lie down without touching the walls;
      (3)   Be made from suitable, appropriate materials to prevent harm or
injury to the animal(s). Unsuitable materials include, but are not limited to,
lean-tos, metal drums, plastic drums, cardboard or other disposable boxes,
vehicles, or the area beneath exposed porches or exposed decks;
      (4)   Provide access to shade from direct sunlight and regress from
exposure to inclement weather conditions, hot or cold, but which does not
exacerbate existing weather conditions;
      (5)   Placed in an area offering the best available protection from
inclement weather, hot or cold;
      (6)   Have floors that are constructed in a manner that protects the
animals’ feet and legs from injury, and that, if of mesh or slatted
construction, do not allow the animal’s feet to pass through the openings of
the floor; and
      (7)   Cardboard, fiberboard, or any other structure that fails to protect
an animal from adverse atmospheric conditions shall not be considered proper
shelter.
   "ADEQUATE SHELTER, LIVESTOCK." Shall be provided to all livestock. The
shelter shall be either natural or constructed, and must provide relief from
the elements. Accepted natural shelters are natural windbreak from tree lines
or other low areas, and natural shade under trees. Accepted constructed
shelters are barns, three- (3-)sided shelters, lean-tos, and widescreens.
Constructed shelters should be free of hazards likely to cause injury.
   "ADEQUATE VENTILATION." Proper air flow and circulation by mechanical,
natural, or other means that provide a constant exchange of air, with fresh,
clean, oxygenated air replacing the contaminated, dirty, un-oxygenated air
within a confined space.
   "ADEQUATE WARMTH." Sufficient, comfortable degree of temperature of the
confined space or containment area that will not lower nor raise the average
body temperature as appropriate for the species.
   "ADEQUATE WATER." A supply of clean, fresh, potable water provided at
suitable intervals or on a continual basis in a sanitary manner suitable for
the species, condition, and age of the animal. The supply shall be in
sufficient amounts to maintain good health in the animal, and in a suitable
container secured to prevent turnover.
   "ANIMAL." Any live vertebrate creature.
   "ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER." Any person designated by the Director of Animal
Services who is qualified to perform the duties under the laws and ordinances
of the Commonwealth of Kentucky and the county and all peace officers. An
animal control officer shall be a law enforcement officer for the purposes of
animal control only.
   "ANIMAL SERVICES." The department of the county which is designated by the
Fiscal Court to enforce the provisions of this chapter and to operate the
animal shelter.
   "ANIMAL SHELTER." Any premises operated or approved for operation by the
Fiscal Court for the purpose of impounding and caring for animals held under
the authority of this chapter.
   "AUCTION." Any place or facility where animals are regularly bought, sold,
or traded except for those facilities otherwise defined in this chapter.
   "BREEDER." Any person who intentionally or accidentally causes the breeding
of more than one (1) litter per female cat or dog in a twelve- (12-)month
period; makes more than one (1) cat or dog available for breeding purposes in a
twelve- (12-)month period; or offers for sale, trades, receives any
compensation or gives away more than one (1) litter of dogs or cats in a
twelve- (12-)month period, with the exception of a litter of dogs or cats taken
to the animal shelter.
   "COMMERCIAL ANIMAL ESTABLISHMENT." Any pet shop, boarding or breeding
kennel, grooming facility, auction, petting zoo, zoological park, circus,
performing animal exhibit, breeder, or any person engaged in the business of
breeding, buying, letting for hire, training for a fee, or selling at retail or
wholesale, any species of animal for profit.
   "DAY." For the purposes of this chapter, a twenty-four (24) hour period
shall constitute a day.
   "DIRECTOR OF ANIMAL SERVICES." The person appointed by the Judge/Executive
and approved by the Fiscal Court as the Chief Animal Control Officer.
   "DOMESTIC ANIMAL." Animals that are habituated to live in or about the
habitations of human beings, and which are kept, cared for, sheltered, fed, or
harbored for use as a pet or as a source of food, raw materials or income.
   "DWELLING." The house or other structure in which a human being lives.
   "EXOTIC ANIMAL." Any animal not indigenous to the United States.
   "EXTREME WEATHER CONDITIONS." When weather conditions are such that a heat
advisory, excessive heat advisory, severe thunderstorm warning, flash flood
warning, blizzard warning, winter storm warning or wind chill advisoiy is
issued by the National Weather Service.
   "GROOMING FACILITY." A commercial establishment where animals are bathed,
clipped, or otherwise groomed.
   "HUMANE SOCIETY." Any person or organization operating from a fixed site and
taking in or accepting stray or unwanted animals.
   "IMPOUNDED." Having been received into the custody of Animal Services or any
authorized representative thereof.
   "LIVESTOCK." Cattle, sheep, swine, goats, horses or any other animals of the
bovine, ovine, porcine, caprine, or equine species.
   "OWNED CAT." Any cat that is a companion to a person and is regularly fed
and sheltered in that same person's habitation. All owned cats are required to
be in compliance with licensing, stray, and at-large provisions of this
chapter.
   "OWNER." Any person owning, keeping, harboring or sheltering one (1) or more
animals.
   "PARAPHERNALIA, ANIMAL FIGHTING." Any bite sticks, weighted chains and/or
collars, spars, animal tread mills, slat mills, carpet mills, fighting pens,
permanent or temporary, injectable or ingestible drugs and supplements used to
enhance fighting, spring poles, or weight pull harnesses and equipment.
   "PERSON." All natural persons, corporations, partnerships, firms,
associations, governmental bodies, agencies, and other entities.
   "PET." Domesticated animal kept for pleasure rather than utility.
   "PET SHOP." Any person engaged in the business of breeding, buying, selling
at retail or wholesale, including fish, of any species for profit-making
purposes, except farming operations that breed, buy, or sell at retail pursuant
to and in conjunction with their agricultural use and shall not be considered
"PET SHOPS" for purposes of this chapter.
   "PUBLIC NUISANCE." Any animal which:
      (1)   Molests passers-by or passing vehicles;
      (2)   Attacks people or other animals;
      (3)   Damages public or private property;
      (4)   Is repeatedly at large;
      (5)   Makes noise in an excessive, continuous or untimely manner for more
than fifteen (15) minutes without provocation;
      (6)   Creates unsanitary conditions;
      (7)   Disturbs the peace, comfort or health of persons in any other
manner; or
      (8)   A home, residence, building, shed, yard, property, or other
establishment that contains excessive amounts of feces and/or urine, or exudes
a foul odor.
   "REASONABLE GROOMING." To maintain an animal’s coat to prevent conditions
which inhibits normal walking or the elimination of body waste or which is
medically harmful to the animal.
   "RESTRAINT." Enclosed in an area by a form of fencing designed to control
the movement of the animal or secured by a leash, chain, or cable tie-out. An
animal shall be deemed to be restrained if it remains on the premises of its
owner or if it is accompanied by a responsible person and is under that
person's immediate control.
   "RUNNING AT LARGE." Any animal, other than a hunting dog released for the
purpose of hunting, that is off the property of the owner, custodian, possessor
or harborer and is not restrained.
   "STRAY." Any animal, other than a hunting dog released for the purpose of
hunting, that is running at large. Community cats that have been ear-tipped,
sterilized, and vaccinated under the trap-neuter-return program shall not be
considered stray for purposes of this chapter.
   "VETERINARIAN." Any person licensed by the Commonwealth of Kentucky to
practice veterinary medicine.
   "VETERINARY HOSPITAL CLINIC." Any establishment maintained and operated by a
licensed veterinarian for surgery, diagnosis, and treatment of diseases and
injuries of animals.
   "VICIOUS ANIMAL."
      (1)   Any animal which constitutes a physical threat to human beings or
domestic animals due to a known propensity to endanger life by an unprovoked
assault or bite which has resulted in serious bodily harm; or
      (2)   Any animal which, when unprovoked, approaches in a terrorizing
manner any person in an attitude of attack upon streets, sidewalks or any
public grounds or places; or
      (3)   Any animal with a known propensity, tendency or disposition to
unprovoked attacks which cause injury or endanger the safety of human beings or
domestic animals; or
      (4)   Any animal which bites to the extent of causing severe injury and
assaults or otherwise attacks human beings or domestic animals; or
      (5)   Any animal owned or harbored primarily or in part for the purpose
of fighting with animals.
      (6)   It shall be prima facie evidence that an animal is vicious if the
animal bites a human being or domestic animal more than once in the same
attack.
      (7)   Exceptions. An animal shall not be deemed vicious solely because:
         (a)   It bites, attacks, or menaces:
            1.   Any person assaulting its owner;
            2.   Any person or animal who has tormented or abused it; or
         (b)   It is otherwise acting in defense of any attack from a person or
other animal upon its owner or another person; or
         (c)   It is protecting or defending its young or the young of any
other animal; or
         (d)   Its breed or assumed/known component of its breed.
   "WILD ANIMAL." Any animal not domesticated or not ordinarily tame and which
is by nature an animal that lives apart from human beings.
(Ord. 2021-2-1, passed 3-11-21)
§ 90.02 REMOVAL OF ANIMAL EXCREMENT.
   (A)   Any person or owner of an animal shall remove any excrement deposited
by his or her animal upon public walks, streets, recreation areas, or the
private property of another absent the consent of the owner or occupant of the
property.
   (B)   Any excrement not removed in violation of division (A) above is
declared to be a public nuisance.
   (C)   This section shall not apply to guide dogs under the control of a
blind person.
(Ord. 2021-2-1, passed 3-11-21)
§ 90.03 POWERS OF ANIMAL SERVICES.
   (A)   The Director, Assistant Director, and all animal control officers of
Animal Services shall have the powers of a peace officer for the purposes of
enforcing animal control laws or ordinances in the county if they otherwise
qualify as a peace officer under the laws of the Commonwealth of Kentucky.
   (B)   All animal control officers of Animal Services shall comply with KRS
61.300.
   (C)   Whenever it is necessary for Animal Services to make an inspection in
order to perform any duty or enforce any provision of this chapter or any other
applicable state statute, they are hereby empowered to enter property at a
reasonable time and inspect the premises. Animal Services shall have the power
only if consent of the owner or occupant of the property is freely given, a
search warrant is obtained or such exigent circumstances exist that a
warrantless, nonconsensual search is required.
   (D)   All animals of any age running at large, as defined in this chapter,
and found in the county may be picked up by Animal Services and impounded in
the animal shelter. If Animal Services can reasonably return the animal, they
may do so and may issue a uniform citation to the owner.
   (E)   All animals of any age which have bitten a human being may be picked
up by Animal Services and impounded in the animal shelter for any applicable
quarantine period. In the event an animal is impounded for a quarantine period,
the owner shall be responsible for a reasonable fee for board, administration
and medical attention during the impoundment.
   (F)   Any animal that is off the property of its owner and displays behavior
as defined in § 90.01, "VICIOUS ANIMAL”, and an animal control officer or law
enforcement officer has reason to believe the animal poses a threat to the
safety of the general public, the animal shall be taken into custody by Animal
Services and the owner shall be issued a uniform citation for harboring a
vicious animal. The animal shall remain in the custody of the county until the
accused is given a hearing before a district court judge. Should that judge
find probable cause for a charge of harboring a vicious animal, the court shall
order temporary forfeiture of the animal to Kenton County Animal Services
pending final disposition of the case.
   (G)   Any dog required to be licensed but found unlicensed may be impounded
for a minimum period of five (5) days unless it is earlier claimed by its
owner. If the dog is not claimed by its owner within five (5) days of
impoundment, the dog may then be offered for adoption or may be euthanized at
the discretion of the Director of Animal Services. Any person claiming or
reclaiming a dog pursuant to this section shall pay a reasonable fee for board,
administration, and medical attention for the dog during impoundment and obtain
proper licensing, if applicable, from Animal Services. Animal Services shall
make reasonable efforts to locate and inform the owner of any dog that the dog
has been impounded.
   (H)   Any animal involved in an alleged violation of KRS 525.125, 525.130,
525.135, 525.137, or § 90.07 may be confiscated by any Animal Control or peace
officer and held in a humane manner. Upon taking custody of an animal pursuant
to KRS 525.125, 525.130, 525.135, 525.137, or § 90.07, Animal Services shall
give notice of the seized animal by posting a notice at the location where the
animal is taken into custody or by delivering notice to a person residing at
the property. The animal shall remain in the custody of the county until the
accused is given a hearing before a district court judge. Should that judge
find probable cause for a charge under KRS 525.125 , 525.130, 525.135, 525.137,
or § 90.07 , the court shall order temporary forfeiture of the animal to Kenton
County Animal Control.
      (1)   Upon a plea or finding of guilt, the animal shall become the
property of Kenton County. The person convicted for violating KRS 525.125,
525.130, 525.135, 525.137, or § 90.07 shall pay all reasonable expenses related
to the incidents of cruelty, including investigation, disposition, veterinary
costs, and all costs of maintaining or disposing of the animal incurred from
the date of confiscation up to and including the date of permanent forfeiture.
      (2)   Upon a dismissal of the charge or a finding of innocence, the
animal shall be immediately returned to the owner. If the owner does not re-
claim the dog within three (3) days of the dismissal or acquittal, the animal
may be offered for adoption or may be euthanized at the discretion of the
Director of Animal Services.
   (I)   When any licensed animal or animal whose owner is known is impounded
in the animal shelter, Animal Services shall notify the owner by certified
mail, return receipt requested, to the last known address, by personal
delivery, or by leaving the notice at the person’s usual place of residence
with any individual residing therein who is eighteen (18) years of age or older
and who is informed of the contents of the notice, within three (3) business
days of impoundment.
   (J)   The registered owner shall reclaim the animal within three (3) days of
the receipt of notice of impoundment. Any licensed animal or animal whose owner
is known which is not reclaimed by its owner within three (3) days of receipt
of the notice of impoundment may then be offered for adoption or may be
euthanized at the discretion of the Director of Animal Services. Any person
claiming or reclaiming an animal pursuant to this section shall pay all
associated fees for impound, board, administration and medical attention during
the impoundment and any outstanding civil citation fees.
   (K)   An animal control officer or law enforcement officer may choose to
issue a warning citation in lieu of a uniform citation if a violation is minor
in nature. Violations eligible for the issuance of a warning citation include,
but are not limited to, first contact by any officer for: failure to vaccinate
a pet against the rabies virus, failure to license a pet, creating a public
nuisance, animal running at large, the lack of reasonable grooming, or
veterinary care where the animal has not suffered harm. The warning citation
shall allow up to fourteen (14) days to correct the violation, except
violations of public nuisance or running at large shall be corrected
immediately. If a violation is serious in nature, a uniform citation may be
issued.
   (L)   An animal control officer or law enforcement officer may choose to
issue a civil citation in lieu of a uniform citation for violations listed in
division (K) of this section where multiple violations of this chapter exists,
where personal injury occurred, property was damaged or destroyed, or a
previous warning has been issued. The civil citation shall allow up to fourteen
(14) days to correct the violation and pay the associated fee. Violations
causing a public nuisance or running at large shall be corrected immediately.
If a violation is serious in nature, a uniform citation may be issued.
      (1)   The fee for civil citations issued under this section are as
follows:
         (a)   First citation is thirty dollars ($30) per violation;
         (b)   Second citation in any twelve- (12-)month period is fifty-five
dollars ($55) per violation; and
         (c)   Third citation in any twelve- (12-)month period, is eighty-five
dollars ($85) per violation.
      (2)   Fourth or subsequent offenses are deemed to be habitual in nature
and not eligible for civil citation and the Animal Control Officer or law
enforcement officer shall issue a uniform citation.
   (M)   Animal control officers are authorized to place, upon request, live-
capture animal traps on private or public property to trap and remove stray, at
large, unwanted, or nuisance domestic animals. It shall be unlawful for any
person other than an animal control officer or his or her designee to remove an
animal from the trap or to damage, destroy, move or otherwise tamper with the
trap. Any person requesting a live-capture trap must own the subject property
and shall be responsible for any lost, stolen, damaged, or otherwise altered
traps.
   (N)   All impound, boarding, administration, and medical fees will be set
annually by the Director of Animal Services, with approval of the Fiscal Court.
(Ord. 2021-2-1, passed 3-11-21)
§ 90.04 ADOPTION AND MANDATORY SPAY/NEUTER.
   (A)   Prior to the adoption of any animal from Animal Services, an
application must be completed by the person wishing to adopt the animal. The
application is designed to determine the prospective owner’s ability to care
for the animal. Any person wishing to adopt an animal who has been issued a
uniform citation for inhumane treatment of animals will not be able to adopt.
   (B)   Kenton County Animal Services is not obligated to sell or transfer
possession of any animal in their custody.
   (C)   All dogs and cats adopted from the animal shelter must be surgically
altered to prevent breeding.
   (D)   The fee for adoption of animals shall be set annually by the Director
of Animal Services, with the approval of the Fiscal Court.
(Ord. 2021-2-1, passed 3-11-21)
§ 90.05 DOG/CAT LICENSING.
   (A)   The owners of all dogs and cats, or those who harbor or maintain dogs
and cats in the unincorporated or incorporated areas of the county, shall have
each and every dog and cat licensed, or as an option microchipped and
registered the Kenton County Animal Services in accordance with the provisions
of this chapter and applicable Kentucky Revised Statutes.
   (B)   The annual license fee for each dog and cat shall be set annually by
the Director of Animal Services, with the approval of the Fiscal Court. The
current license fee period shall begin on July 1, 2019 and will terminate on
January 31, 2021. Licenses must be renewed each year thereafter during the
month of February. Failure to license, or to renew a license, will result in a
penalty. At the time of licensing and registration, the owner shall provide his
or her name, address and telephone number, as well as the name, breed, color
and sex of each dog/cat to be licensed. Upon payment of the license fee, the
owner shall be issued a certificate of registration and a serial numbered
license tag for each dog/cat. The license tag shall be fastened to the dog’s or
cat’s collar and worn by the dog or cat at all times.
   (C)   All dogs/cats that are microchipped and registered with Kenton County
on or before June 30, 2004 shall be exempt from the annual licensing fee for
the lifetime of the animal. The microchip shall be county-approved, and coded
with a unique identifying number implanted in the neck of the dog or cat. The
owner shall provide his or her name, address and phone number, as well as the
name, breed, color and sex of each dog/cat microchipped. The information, along
with the unique identifying number, will be entered into the computer data base
for future reference. Upon payment of the microchip fee, the owner shall be
issued a certificate of registration for each dog/cat implanted. Should the
ownership of the dog/cat change for any reason whatsoever, the change of
ownership shall be made in the data base for a nominal fee to be set by the
Fiscal Court.
   (D)   Failure to register a dog or cat and to obtain the license set forth
herein within thirty (30) days of acquiring or possessing the animal, failure
to renew during the month of February each year thereafter, failure to display
the license on the dog, or failure to microchip a dog in place of buying a
license shall result in a fine as provided in §
90.99.
(Ord. 2021-2-1, passed 3-11-21)
§ 90.06 RABIES VACCINATION.
   (A)   All dogs, cats, and ferrets, four (4) months of age and older, shall
be vaccinated for rabies and revaccinated for rabies at the expiration of the
immunization period as certified by a veterinarian.
   (B)   Any dog or cat reclaimed or adopted from the animal shelter must have
a valid rabies vaccination or purchase a rabies voucher prior to release.
   (C)   Any dogs or cats found not to have been vaccinated for rabies, whether
discovered by a veterinarian or by other means, must be vaccinated within
fourteen (14) days of the date of discovery.
(Ord. 2021-2-1, passed 3-11-21)
§ 90.07 HUMANE TREATMENT OF ANIMALS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to abandon any animal.
      (1)   In the event that an animal is found abandoned, such animal may be
taken by an animal control officer or peace officer, and impounded at the
animal shelter and there be confined in a humane manner. Such animal, if taken
from private property shall be kept for not less than the prescribed period in
accordance with the procedures set forth in §
90.03, or for any longer period required by law, regulation, or medical
necessity. In the event an animal is so abandoned, the owner or person, if any,
who he/she has charged with the animal’s care shall be subject to a citation or
civil penalties for any violation of this section.
      (2)   Any animal found not under restraint without a license or
vaccination tag, or any animal found in a condition that requires immediate
veterinary care, shall be presumed to be abandoned, and shall be seized.
      (3)   Notice of seizure of an abandoned animal from private property
shall be posted on the premises from which the animal was seized, which notice
shall clearly state the address and telephone number for the animal shelter.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to inhumanely treat any animal,
including, but not limited to, the deprivation of necessities, beating,
mutilating, torturing, killing, overloading, overworking, or otherwise abusing
any animal. Nothing herein shall prevent Animal Services from humanely
euthanizing any animal.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person to exhibit, display or keep any
animal without providing adequate food, adequate water, adequate shelter or
medical attention.
   (D)   Any dog which is chained, tied or otherwise connected by means other
than a leash being held by a person shall be provided no less than ten (10)
feet of chain, rope, cable or other similar material, and shall be situated in
a manner that prevents injury, strangulation, or entanglement. Dogs that are
chained, tied, or otherwise connected by means other than a leash being held by
a person shall be properly fitted with and wearing non-choke, buckle-type
collar or harness made of leather, nylon, or similar material, and shall not be
tethered by use of a choke collar, or on any collar too small for the size and
age of the animal. The tether must be attached to the dog’s collar or harness
and not directly to the dog’s neck, or of such unreasonable weight as to
prevent the animal from moving about freely. Dogs shall be not tethered in any
unsafe area, and must be at least ten (10) feet from the edge of any public
road or sidewalk. Dogs shall not be tethered during extreme weather conditions,
or while the dog is sick or injured. Dogs under the age of five (5) months may
not be tethered unattended, and multiple dogs should be tethered separately.
   (E)   It shall be unlawful for any person to keep an animal within the
passenger compartment of an automobile without adequate ventilation in the
summer or adequate warmth in the winter. No person shall enclose any animal in
the trunk of an automobile. An animal control or police officer shall rescue
any animal confined in such a manner. No person shall use any automobile as a
temporary or permanent shelter for animal(s).
   (F)   It shall be unlawful for any person to stage, cause, instigate,
permit, observe, or attend any dog-fight, cock-fight, bull-fight, or other
combat between animals or between animals and humans. Animals altered for
fighting purposes and animals with scarring from previous fighting may be
considered evidence of unlawful animal combat.
   (G)   It shall be unlawful for any person(s) to own, harbor, or be in
possession of animal fighting paraphernalia.
   (H)   It shall be unlawful for any person to set free any hare, rabbit,
gerbil, domesticated rat, guineas pig, other pet rodent, snake, lizard, turtle,
other pet reptile, or other animal for the purpose of violating any provision
of this chapter.
   (I)   No performing animal exhibition, circus or horse show shall be
permitted in which the animals are induced or encouraged to perform through the
use of chemical, mechanical, electrical or manual devices in a manner which
will cause or is likely to cause physical injury or suffering. All equipment
used on animals in such shows shall fit properly and be in good working order.
   (J)   Any person who, as the operator of a motor vehicle, strikes a domestic
animal shall stop at once and render assistance as may be possible and shall
immediately report such injury or death to the animal's owner, if known, or to
Animal Control or any police officer.
   (K)   No person shall expose any poisonous substance, whether mixed with
food or not, so that the same shall be likely to be eaten by a domestic animal,
provided that the substance shall not be unlawful for a person to expose on his
or her own property, poisonous substance, or to Animal Control or any police
officer.
   (L)   No person shall give away any live animal as a prize or for inducement
to enter any contest, game or other competition or as an inducement to enter
into any business agreement, whereby the offer was for the purpose of
attracting the trade, except that it shall not be unlawful to give away small
fish, not to exceed four (4) inches, as a prize.
   (M)   It shall be unlawful for any person to color, stain, dye or otherwise
change the natural color of any live animal or to offer such colored animals
for sale in the county, except that the mane and tail of an equine may be
changed pursuant to accepted practices in showing the equine.
   (N)   It shall be unlawful to sell baby chicks, ducks or rabbits under the
age of two (2) months in quantities less than six (6).
   (O)   It shall be unlawful to place an animal in the rear of a truck without
securing the animal so that the animal cannot jump out.
   (P)   It shall be unlawful to possess more than six (6) domestic (cats and/
or dogs) or exotic animals or a combination thereof in one's residential
dwelling if that said dwelling is within one hundred (100) feet of a neighbor.
   (Q)   It shall be unlawful to allow dogs, cats, or other domestic animals to
remain outdoors during extreme weather conditions. Dogs, cats, or other
domestic animals must be moved indoors or to an area that provides protection
from the extreme weather condition.
   (R)   It shall be unlawful for any person to use a muzzle that causes injury
to a dog or interferes with its vision, respiration, or ability to drink. It
shall be unlawful to muzzle any dog unless doing so is reasonably calculated to
prevent injury to people or animals.
(Ord. 2021-2-1, passed 3-11-21)
§ 90.08 ANIMALS TO BE UNDER CONTROL.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to permit any animal owned or
harbored by him or her to run at large. When livestock are running at large,
Animal Control or the police shall make reasonable efforts to notify the owner
as soon as possible. If reasonably possible and feasible, the owner of the
livestock shall be notified prior to the actual capture and impoundment of the
livestock.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to own or possess a vicious animal.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful to own or possess an animal that conducts itself
in such a manner as to constitute a public nuisance.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful to allow a female dog to be exposed during estrus
(in season, in heat) so as to attract male dogs. Every female that is in season
shall be confined in a building or secure enclosure in such a manner that such
female dog cannot come in contact with a male dog except for planned breeding.
Females shall not be restrained by tie out, chain, rope, cable, leash, or
otherwise restrained and left unattended while in season.
   (E)   Pursuant to KRS 258.215, a hound or other hunting dog which has been
released from confinement for hunting purposes shall be deemed to be under
reasonable control of its owner or handler while engaged in or returning from
hunting, and, if a hunting dog becomes temporarily lost from a pack or wanders
from actual control or sight of its owner or handler, the owner or handler
shall not be deemed to be in violation of the provisions of this section as a
result of the dog's having become temporarily lost or having wandered from
immediate control or sight of the owner or handler.
(Ord. 2021-2-1, passed 3-11-21)
§ 90.09 WILD AND EXOTIC ANIMALS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to sell, own, harbor or keep as a pet a wild or
exotic animal not indigenous to the United States, unless the animal has been
approved for sale or retention by appropriate state and federal governmental
agencies and any required permits have been obtained.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to sell, own, harbor or keep as a pet a wild
animal native to the United States, unless the animal has been approved for
sale or retention by appropriate state and federal governmental agencies and
any required permits have been obtained.
(Ord. 2021-2-1, passed 3-11-21)
§ 90.10 HUMANE SOCIETIES; STANDARDS AND LICENSING.
   (A)   All humane societies in the county shall be governed by the same
standards set forth in §§
90.20 et seq., and shall be subject to any ordinance pertaining to commercial
animal establishments.
   (B)   Humane societies shall maintain records on each animal accepted or
housed, noting the following:
      (1)   Name and address of previous owner or person turning in the animal;
      (2)   Date received;
      (3)   Condition of the animal and any medical treatment;
      (4)   Date of adoption, redemption or euthanasia; and
      (5)   Name and address of new owner.
(Ord. 2021-2-1, passed 3-11-21)
§ 90.11 HABITUAL VIOLATOR.
   Any person who receives four (4) or more warning citations and/or civil
citations in any twelve- (12-)month period shall be in violation of being a
habitual violator and subject to penalties.
(Ord. 2021-2-1, passed 3-11-21)
COMMERCIAL ANIMAL ESTABLISHMENTS
§ 90.20    DEFINITION.
   In addition to the definitions provided in §
90.01 of this chapter, the following definition shall apply to the provisions
of this subchapter, unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
   "OWNER" or "OPERATOR." Any person, group of persons, partnership, or any
entity owning or operating a commercial animal establishment. This definition
does not apply to veterinarians as long as animals on the premise are there for
treatment only.
(Ord. 2021-2-1, passed 3-11-21)
§ 90.21 LICENSING PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Licensing. All commercial animal establishments shall obtain and
maintain a valid commercial animal establishment license in order to operate a
commercial animal establishment within the county.
   (B)   The commercial animal establishment licenses shall be issued by the
Kenton County Fiscal Court through Animal Services. An application to obtain a
commercial animal establishment license shall be completed by each commercial
animal establishment. A separate application must be completed for each
location in the case of commercial animal establishment chains and/or
franchises. The premises for which a license is being granted shall be
inspected by Animal Services. Animal Services shall issue a commercial animal
license establishment license to the applicant upon payment of the required fee
and passing of the required inspection.
   (C)   The commercial animal establishment license shall be valid for a
period of one year. Licenses issued between July 1, 2019 and June 30, 2020 will
be extended until January 31, 2021. After January 31, 2021 all licenses are due
for renewal in the month of February.
   (D)   The commercial animal establishment license shall be renewed annually.
   (E)   The annual fee for a commercial animal establishment license shall be
set by the Director of Animal Services and approved by the Fiscal Court.
(Ord. 2021-2-1, passed 3-11-21)
§ 90.22 MINIMUM STANDARDS.
   (A)   All commercial animal establishments shall provide an adequate
environment for each animal which is compatible with the general health and
welfare of the animal.
   (B)   All commercial animal establishments shall provide adequate space for
each animal. Each cage or enclosure shall be large enough for the animal to
stand, sit, lie and turn around without touching the walls or ceiling of the
cage or enclosure, or another animal.
   (C)   All commercial animal establishments shall provide adequate
sanitation. Each cage or enclosure shall be maintained as follows:
      (1)   Indoor containment.
         (a)   Cages or enclosures containing dogs or cats, of any age, shall
be cleaned with hot water, disinfectant and detergent daily (including
holidays), or more frequently if conditions require additional cleaning or
disinfecting to keep animals out of contact with feces or urine. Litter boxes
shall be cleaned daily (including holidays) and the litter changed when needed.
         (b)   Cages or enclosures containing birds shall contain a perch and
shall be cleaned with hot water and disinfectant at least twice weekly or more
frequently if conditions require additional cleaning.
         (c)   Cages or enclosures containing small animals besides a dog or
cat shall be cleaned with hot water and disinfectant at least twice weekly or
more frequently if conditions require additional cleaning.
         (d)   Cages or enclosures must be designed and constructed of suitable
materials so that they are structurally sound and kept in good repair. Cages or
enclosures must be constructed and maintained so that they:
            1.   Have no sharp points or edges that could injure the animal(s);
            2.   Are safe for their designed use;
            3.   Contain the animal(s) securely;
            4.   Keep other animals from entering the enclosure;
            5.   Enable the animal(s) to remain dry and clean; and
            6.   Provide animals with easy and convenient access to clean food
and water.
      (2)   Outdoor containment. If dogs are contained outdoors, their cage or
enclosure must be designed and constructed of suitable materials so that they
are structurally sound and kept in good repair. Cages or enclosures must be
constructed and maintained so that they:
         (a)   Have no sharp points or edges that could injure the animal(s);
         (b)   Are safe for their designed use;
         (c)   Contain the animal(s) securely;
         (d)   Keep other animals from entering the enclosure;
         (e)   Enable the animal(s) to remain dry and clean;
         (f)   Provide animals with easy and convenient access to clean food
and water;
         (g)   Provide protection and shelter from extreme weather conditions;
         (h)   Provide sufficient shade from direct rays of sun;
         (i)   Have floors that are constructed in a manner that protects
animal(s) feet and legs from injury, and that, if of mesh or slatted
construction, do not allow the animals feet to pass through any openings in the
floors; and
         (j)   All surfaces in contact with animals shall be cleaned and
sanitized daily (including holidays), and sanitized.
      (3)   Minimum standards for housing.
         (a)   All commercial animal establishments shall adhere to the
following minimum space standards for enclosures housing dogs, based upon the
individual dog’s height and weight:
 
Canine category Size/Length/Weight      Square Footage Required Housing Size
                                                                Equivalency
Miniature       0 - 19” or up to 10 lb4 square feet           2 feet x 2 feet
Small           20 - 29” or up to 20  8 square feet           2 feet x 4 feet
                lbs
Small/Medium    30 - 39” or up to 35  12 square feet          3 feet x 4 feet
                lbs
Medium          40 - 49” or up to 50  20 square feet          4 feet x 5 feet
                lbs
Medium/Large    50 - 59” or up to 75  30 square feet          5 feet x 6 feet
                lbs
Large           60” and up, above 76  36 square feet          6 feet x 6 feet
                lbs
 
         (b)   Violations of the minimum standards for housing of dogs pursuant
to §
90.22(C)(3)(a) shall not apply to veterinary establishments where restricting a
dog’s movements is medically necessary.
   (D)   All commercial animal establishments shall provide adequate
nourishment and water for each animal as follows:
      (1)   Each animal shall be given fresh food and water daily, including
holidays;
      (2)   Soft food shall be available to those animals unable to chew
standard dry food;
      (3)   Potable water shall be available to each animal at all times; and
      (4)   Food and water containers shall be washed and disinfected daily.
   (E)   All commercial animal establishments shall provide proper medical
treatment from a licensed veterinarian for sick or injured animals.
   (F)   All commercial animal establishments shall provide an adequate room
(cage) temperature for the general health and welfare of the animal, suitable
to that species’ general health and welfare.
   (G)   All commercial animal establishments shall provide for general
cleanliness of its establishment, and shall not permit an insect or rodent
infestation.
   (H)   All commercial animal establishments shall obtain any necessary
licenses or permits from an appropriate state or federal agency to offer for
sale any exotic or wild animal.
   (I)   All commercial animal establishments must be sufficiently ventilated
at all times when animals are present to provide for animal health and well-
being, and to minimize odors, drafts, ammonia levels, and moisture
condensation.
   (J)   All commercial animal establishments keeping animals indoors must be
well lit to permit routine inspection and cleaning of the facility, and
observation of animals.
(Ord. 2021-2-1, passed 3-11-21)
§ 90.23 INSPECTIONS.
   The Director or Assistant Director of Animal Services or any animal control
officer shall be permitted and empowered to make an inspection of any
commercial animal establishment within the county, and shall further be
permitted to take photographs of commercial animal establishments during the
inspection. The inspection shall take place upon the verbal request of the
Director or Assistant Director of Animal Services or any animal control
officer, during regular business hours of the commercial animal establishment.
(Ord. 2021-2-1, passed 3-11-21)
CARRIAGE HORSE BUSINESS
§ 90.30 DEFINITIONS.
   In addition to the definitions provided in §
90.01, the following definitions shall apply to the provisions of this
subchapter, unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
   "CARRIAGE." Any device designed to be drawn by a horse, in, upon or by which
any person may be transported or drawn on public streets or in public or quasi-
public places.
   "CARRIAGE HORSE BUSINESS." Any person owning or operating a horse-drawn
carriage for compensation.
   "COMPENSATION." Any fare, reward, tip, donation or other thing of value
which a driver, owner, or operator of a horse-drawn carriage accepts or
receives, or offers to receive, in return for furnishing such a service.
   "HORSE." An animal of genus equus.
   "OWNER" or "OPERATOR." Any person, group of persons, partnership, or any
entity owning or operating a carriage horse business.
   "PERSON." Shall include a person, firm, partnership, association and
corporation.
(Ord. 2021-2-1, passed 3-11-21)
§ 90.31 LICENSING PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Licensing. All carriage horse businesses shall obtain and maintain a
valid carriage horse business license in order to operate a carriage horse
business within the county.
   (B)   The carriage horse business licenses shall be issued by the Kenton
County Fiscal Court through Animal Services. An application to obtain a
carriage horse business license shall be completed by each carriage horse
business. A separate application must be completed for each carriage horse
business location. The premises for which a license is being granted shall be
inspected by Animal Services. Animal Services shall issue a carriage horse
business license to the applicant upon payment of the required fee and passing
of the required inspection.
   (C)   The carriage horse business license shall be valid for a period of one
year. Licenses issued between July 1, 2019 and June 30, 2020 will be extended
until January 31, 2021. After January 31, 2021, all licenses are due for
renewal in the month of February.
   (D)   The carriage horse business license shall be renewed annually.
   (E)   The annual fee for a carriage horse business license shall be set
annually by the Director of Animal Services and approved by the Fiscal Court.
(Ord. 2021-2-1, passed 3-11-21)
§ 90.32 STANDARDS.
   (A)   Any person owning or operating a horse-drawn carriage for compensation
shall, in addition to the other requirements of this chapter, comply with the
standards of this section.
   (B)   All working horses shall be provided daily with food and water, free
from contamination. Such food shall be wholesome, edible, and of sufficient
quantity and nutritive value to meet the normal daily requirements for the
condition, size, and species of the animal.
   (C)   All horses shall have adequate shelter.
      (1)   All buildings and sheds used for stabling horses shall be well-lit
and ventilated. The building must provide adequate protection from the weather
and be kept clean and in good repair at all times. Manure and urine shall be
removed daily.
      (2)   Any enclosures where animals are kept shall be graded and raked as
to keep the surface reasonably dry.
      (3)   Clean bedding must be provided.
   (D)   Flies and other insects must be controlled through general sanitation
and necessary means.
   (E)   All horses used in a carriage horse business must weigh at least eight
hundred (800) pounds and be considered in generally good health. Any owner or
operator who desires to use a horse for this purpose which does not weigh eight
hundred (800) pounds must apply in writing to Animal Services for approval.
   (F)   Any horse working for a carriage horse business must be examined not
less than every four months by a veterinarian, who shall certify the fitness of
the animal to perform such work. Horses exhibiting any of the following shall
be deemed unfit for work:
      (1)   Sores or abrasions caused or likely to be aggravated by the bearing
of services, girth, harness, or bridles, unless padding could be utilized to
protect the area;
      (2)   Serious injury or illness; or
      (3)   Obvious signs of emaciation, malnutrition, lameness, or exhaustion.
   (G)   Horses requiring veterinary care shall not be moved, ridden, or
driven, except for the purpose of humane keeping, pasturing, or obtaining
medical care.
   (H)   Horses shall be properly shod, and the hooves shall be kept trimmed.
   (I)   Horses shall be kept clean, particularly in the areas in contact with
a harness or other tack.
   (J)   Horses shall not be worked for more than two (2) hours without being
given a total of thirty (30) minutes of rest. The maximum working period for
any one (1) animal is ten (10) hours out of every twenty-four (24) hours.
   (K)   No horse shall be overridden or driven to result in overheating or
exhaustion.
   (L)   Horses shall not be worked when the temperature of the workplace
reaches or exceeds ninety-five degrees (95°) F. Animals which are on heat
stress-preventive treatment that has been prescribed by a veterinarian may be
worked while under such treatment on contracts entered into prior to the
beginning of such treatment.
   (M)   The speed at which any horse is driven shall not exceed a slow trot.
   (N)   Horses shall be provided water at the loading site and on routes at
all times they are working.
   (O)   All harnesses and bridles shall be kept oiled, cleaned, and in good
repair.
   (P)   Carriages must be kept properly lubricated and wheels must spin
freely.
   (Q)   Animal Services may order quarantine on the entire premises where the
animals are being stabled or any part thereof or on any particular animal for
any of the following reasons:
      (1)   Excessive parasitism, diagnosed by a veterinarian, which would
cause the animal to be unfit to be ridden or driven.
      (2)   General malnutrition, as diagnosed by a veterinarian.
      (3)   Presence of contagious or transmittable disease, as diagnosed by a
veterinarian.
   (R)   Owners and operators of a carriage horse business shall not permit
unsanitary conditions to be present on any road in the county, animal rest
area, or any area where the animals are kept. All such areas shall be kept
clean and free of conditions which might harbor or be conducive to the breeding
of insects or rodents.
   (S)   No horse shall be made to perform by means of any prod, stick,
electrical shock, physical force, or by causing pain or discomfort. Any whip or
ridding crop must be used so as not to cause injury to the animal.
   (T)   No horse may pull a carriage carrying more people than it is designed
to carry by the manufacturer, nor shall a carriage be pulled by fewer animals
than provided for by design.
(Ord. 2021-2-1, passed 3-11-21)
FOWL
§ 90.40 REGULATIONS APPLICABLE TO FOWL.
   (A)   License required. Any resident wishing to harbor fowl on his or her
residential property must first acquire a license from the City Administrator
or his or her designee.
      (1)   The fee for this license shall be a one- (1-)time fee of twenty-
five dollars ($25).
      (2)   Prior to the issuance of each license, the City Administrator shall
notify each abutting property owner in writing that the license applicant has
applied to harbor fowl on his or her property. The abutting property owners
shall have ten (10) days to file a written objection to the application.
      (3)   The City Administrator may deny the license application if the
applicant cannot meet the criteria set forth in the Code of Ordinances, or if
an abutting property owner objects to the application.
   (B)   Appeal. A denial of a license application may be appealed to City
Council within thirty (30) calendar days.
   (C)   Any resident licensed to harbor fowl shall adhere to the following
requirements:
      (1)   The fowl enclosure shall be maintained in a safe and humane fashion
and in a sanitary condition, free from offensive odors and accumulation of
excrement and feed. All outside feed must be stored in a secured container so
as not to attract vermin or predators.
      (2)   The fowl enclosure shall be covered and secure so that the fowl
cannot escape and predators cannot access the enclosure.
      (3)   The fowl enclosure must be at least twenty-five (25) feet from the
nearest neighbor’s property line and no closer than four (4) feet to the
owner’s residential structure.
      (4)   No roosters, cockerels, pheasants, ducks, turkeys or other
gallinaceous birds (other than provided in division (5) below) shall be
harbored, maintained, or kept on any property in Crestview Hills.
      (5)   Only female chickens, female chicks or hens are permitted, and no
more than six (6) female chickens or hens shall be allowed per residential
property parcel.
      (6)   Fowl permitted by the license shall not be harbored for a
commercial purpose.
   (D)   The City Administrator shall create or cause to be created an
application for a license and a license form to be used in furtherance of this
section.
   (E)   The City Administrator or his or her designee may revoke any license
issued under this section upon finding that:
      (1)   The license holder is not in compliance with the provisions of
division (C);
      (2)   The harboring of fowl substantially interferes with the neighbors’
enjoyment of their property through the emission of foul odors, noise, or
attraction of predators or vermin onto neighboring properties;
      (3)   The license holder’s harboring of fowl endangers the safety of
neighboring properties; or
      (4)   The license holder’s harboring of fowl has caused property damage
or personal injury to other persons or properties.
   (F)   The revocation of a license may be appealed to the City Council within
thirty (30) calendar days of the service of the revocation decision.
   (G)   The property owner shall, upon revocation of the license, remove the
fowl and any related structures or appurtenances within seven (7) calendar
days.
(Ord. 2021-11-01, passed 12-9-21)
§ 90.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person failing to comply with the following sections is guilty of
a violation of this chapter and, in addition to proof of compliance where
applicable, on a first offense shall be fined not less than $25 nor more than
$100 and on a second or subsequent offense shall be fined not less than $50 nor
more than $250. Each day constitutes a new and separate violation:
      (1)   §
90.02. Failing to comply with the removal of animal excrement;
      (2)   §
90.03(M). Tampering with Animal Services traps;
      (3)   §
90.04. Failing to comply with mandatory spay/neuter requirements;
      (4)   §
90.05. Failing to license or renew a license for a dog or cat;
      (5)   §
90.06. Failing to vaccinate against the rabies virus;
      (6)   §
90.08(A). Animal running at large;
      (7)   §
90.08(A). Livestock running at large. Owner must reimburse county for all
reasonable fees incurred in capturing, impounding, boarding, and necessary
medical services;
      (8)   §
90.08(C). Owning an animal which is a public nuisance;
      (9)   §
90.08(D). Failing to confine a female dog in heat;
      (10)   §
90.09. Failing to have permits for wild or exotic animals;
      (11)   §
90.10. Humane society failing to obtain license, meet standards, or keep
records;
      (12)   §
90.21. Commercial animal establishment failing to obtain license;
      (13)   §
90.22. Commercial animal establishment failing to meet standards;
      (14)   §
90.31. Carriage horse business failing to obtain license; and
      (15)   § 90.32. Carriage horse business failing to meet standards.
   (B)   Any person violating the following sections of this chapter shall be
guilty of a Class B Misdemeanor and be fined not more than two hundred fifty
dollars ($250), or up to ninety (90) days in the county jail, or both. Each day
constitutes a new and separate violation.
      (1)   §
90.07. First offense of violations related to the humane treatment of animals;
      (2)   §
90.08. First offense of owning or possessing a vicious animal. In addition to
any penalties imposed, the court shall order one of the following;
         (a)   That as a condition of retaining the animal it must be
microchipped, spayed/neutered, and registered as a vicious animal with Animal
Services. It must be confined in a secure, locked enclosure, designed to
prevent digging out or escape and prohibits the entry of small children. The
enclosure must have a sign warning of a vicious animal which is visible from
the roadway or any public access. The enclosure must be inspected and approved
by Animal Services. The animal may only leave the enclosure for veterinary
care, at which time it must be muzzled, on a leash no longer than three (3)
feet and under the direct control of the owner. The owner must notify Animal
Services in the event the animal is loose, unconfined, has attacked an animal
or humane being or is deceased; or
         (b)   The court may order the animal euthanized;
      (3)   §
90.11. Being a habitual violator. Any humane society, commercial animal
establishment, or carriage horse business guilty of being a habitual violator
is subject to license revocation.
   (C)   Any person violating the following sections of this chapter shall be
guilty of a Class A Misdemeanor and be fined not more than five hundred dollars
($500) or up to one (1) year in the county jail, or both. Each day constitutes
a new and separate violation.
      (1)   §
90.07. Second or subsequent offense relating to the humane treatment of
animals; and
      (2)   §
90.08. Second or subsequent offense relating to owning or possessing a vicious
animal. If the violation involves the same animal, the court shall order the
animal immediately euthanized.
   (D)   Any person failing to comply with the provisions of §
90.40 shall be guilty of a violation, and in addition to any action on the
license, shall on the first offense be fined not less than twenty-five dollars
($25) nor more than one hundred ($100) dollars; on a second or subsequent
offense shall be fined not less than fifty dollars ($50) nor more than two
hundred dollars ($200). Each day constitutes a new and separate violation.
Additionally, the city may direct Animal Control to remove the offending fowl
from the property, and to charge the owner of the fowl for any fees, costs,
expenses, incurred in removing and housing of the fowl.
(Ord. 2021-2-1, passed 3-11-21; Am. Ord. 2021-11-01, passed 12-9-21)
CHAPTER 91: STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
Section
Road and Bridge Projects
   
91.01   Public hearing required
   
91.02   Notice requirements; public may testify
   
91.03   Effect of testimony
   
91.04   Hearing to be held prior to construction
   
91.05   Separate hearing for each project not required
   
91.06   Exemptions from hearing requirement
Obstructions
   
91.30   Unloading on street or sidewalk
   
91.31   Street and sidewalk obstruction
   
91.32   Materials on street or sidewalk
   
91.33   Removal of ice and snow
   
91.34   Encumbrances in the unimproved right-of-way
Public Rights-of-Way
   
91.40   General provisions
   
91.41   Definitions
   
91.42   Administration and enforcement
   
91.43   General conditions related to facilities located in the rights-of-way
   
91.44   Existing facilities
   
91.45   Registration
   
91.46   Requirements for registrants
   
91.47   Permits
   
91.48   Emergencies; power to order repairs
   
91.49   Insurance
   
91.50   Indemnification; hold harmless
   
91.51   Joint planning and construction; coordination of excavation
   
91.52   Installation, relocation, or discontinuation of facilities
   
91.53   Above-ground facilities
   
91.54   Patching and restoration standards
   
91.55   Inspections
   
91.56   Appeal
 
   
91.99   Penalty
ROAD AND BRIDGE PROJECTS
§ 91.01 PUBLIC HEARING REQUIRED.
   Before the city expends state derived tax revenues on a municipal highway,
road, street, or bridge it shall provide an opportunity to the public to
provide input in a public meeting for which notice has been given under KRS
61.823(2) to (4) with regard to the project and to priorities for use of tax
moneys for road and bridge purposes.
(KRS 174.100)
§ 91.02 NOTICE REQUIREMENTS PUBLIC MAY TESTIFY.
   Prior to the contemplated date of expenditure of state derived tax revenues
on a road or bridge by the city, the city shall include the topic as a specific
item on the public meeting agenda and shall allow any person to speak with
regard to any proposed project, any project which he or she feels should be
built or done which has not been proposed, priorities for completion of
projects, and any other matter related to road or bridge projects.
(KRS 174.100 (1))
§ 91.03 EFFECT OF TESTIMONY.
   The city shall not be bound by the comments and input provided at the
meeting but shall give due consideration to them.
(KRS 174.100 (2))
§ 91.04 HEARING TO BE HELD PRIOR TO CONSTRUCTION.
   The city shall not begin construction on a road or bridge project wherein
state derived tax revenues are involved until the meeting as provided herein
has been held.
(KRS 174.100 (3))
§ 91.05 SEPARATE HEARING FOR EACH PROJECT NOT REQUIRED.
   This subchapter shall not be construed as to require a separate meeting for
each project. A single meeting encompassing the entire road and bridge program,
provided all projects subsequently undertaken have been identified at the
meeting, shall meet the requirements of this subchapter.
(KRS 174.100 (4))
§ 91.06 EXEMPTIONS FROM HEARING REQUIREMENT.
   The provisions of this subchapter shall not apply to emergency repair or
replacement of roads or bridges necessitated by natural or man-caused disasters
nor to street cleaning or snow removal operations.
(KRS 174.100 (5))
OBSTRUCTIONS
§ 91.30 UNLOADING ON STREET OR SIDEWALK.
   No person shall unload any heavy material in the streets of the city by
throwing or letting the material fall upon the pavement of any street, alley,
sidewalk, or other public way, without first placing some sufficient protection
over the pavement.
Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.31 STREET AND SIDEWALK OBSTRUCTION.
   No person shall obstruct any street, alley, sidewalk, or other public way
within the city by erecting thereon any fence or building, or permitting any
fence or building to remain thereon. Each day that any fence or building is
permitted to remain upon the public way shall constitute a separate offense.
Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.32 MATERIALS ON STREET OR SIDEWALK.
   No person shall encumber any street or sidewalk. No owner, occupant, or
person having the care of any building or lot of land, bordering on any street
or sidewalk, shall permit it to be encumbered with barrels, boxes, cans,
articles, or substances of any kind, so as to interfere with the free and
unobstructed use thereof.
Penalty, see §
91.99
________________
Cross-reference:
   Littering on streets or sidewalks, see
Ch. 94,
§ 91.33 REMOVAL OF ICE AND SNOW.
   It shall be the duty of the owner or of the occupant of each and every
parcel of real estate in the city abutting upon any sidewalk to keep the
sidewalk abutting his premises free and clear of snow and ice, and to remove
therefrom all snow and ice accumulated thereon within a reasonable time, which
will ordinarily not exceed twelve (12) hours after the abatement of any storm
during which the snow and ice may have accumulated.
Penalty, see §
91.99
________________
Cross-reference:
   "Reasonable time" requirement, see §
10.04 (D)
§ 91.34 ENCUMBRANCES IN THE UNIMPROVED RIGHT-OF-WAY.
   (A)   No person shall encumber any portion of the unimproved right-of-way
within the city with a permanent structure, sign, post, or any other item. The
following items are exempt from this section: mailboxes or any receptacle used
for the U.S. Mail, any item owned by a governmental entity, any utility item
registered with or permitted by the city, signage permitted by the zoning
ordinance, streetlights, permitted species or types of trees and bushes, trash
or recycling receptacles set out for collection at appropriate times, or any
item or sign owned or maintained by the city.
   (B)   Property owners may install landscaping, private invisible pet fences,
and irrigation in the unimproved right-of-way, subject to the condition that
the city may require permits for these items prior to installation and/or
mandate their removal or relocation for official purposes such as roadwork or
if they block vehicle sight lines. Failure to relocate these items upon request
by the city shall relieve the city or its contractor from liability for damage.
(Ord. 2023-12-02, passed 1-11-24) Penalty, see §
91.99
PUBLIC RIGHTS-OF-WAY
§ 91.40 GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Title. This subchapter shall be known as the “City of Crestview Hills
Right-of-Way Ordinance” and shall apply to all facilities located in right-of-
way controlled by the city.
   (B)   Subchapter not in lieu of franchise. Compliance with the requirements
of this subchapter shall not excuse any person from complying with all other
requirements of law, including, to the extent applicable, holding a valid
franchise, contract, or easement from or with the city. Any franchise,
contract, or easement may include additional regulations, obligations, fees,
and costs.
   (C)   Subchapter not intended to impair existing contracts. Nothing in this
subchapter is intended to impair the legal right or obligation of any contract,
franchise, or easement previously granted by the city or authorized under state
or Federal law.
   (D)   Reservation of regulatory and police powers. The city does not
diminish or to any extent lose, waive, impair, or lessen the lawful powers and
rights which it now or may have hereafter to regulate the use of the rights-of-
way or charge reasonable compensation for such use. Any public utility or
special purpose governmental entity, as defined herein, does not diminish or to
any extent lose, waive, impair, or lessen the lawful powers and rights which it
now has or may have hereafter.
(Ord. 2018-11-01, passed 12-13-18)
§ 91.41 DEFINITIONS.
   The following definitions apply to this subchapter.
   “ABOVE-GROUND FACILITIES.” Any facilities located above ground, which are
capable of being installed without significant underground excavation,
including, but not limited to, utility poles and miniature cellular phone
towers.
   “DEGRADATION.” A material decrease in the useful remaining life of the
right-of-way caused by excavation in or disturbance of the right-of-way,
resulting in the need to reconstruct such right-of-way earlier than would be
required if the excavation did not occur.
   “DIRECTOR.” The city’s Director of Public Works, or his or her designee,
unless otherwise specified.
   “EMERGENCY.” A situation when placement, repair, or maintenance of
facilities is needed to be undertaken immediately because of a danger to human
life or health or of significant damage to property, including, but not limited
to, unanticipated leaks, interruptions, or reductions in existing services, or
other situations defined as being emergency or dangerous conditions pursuant to
federal, state, or local law. The installation of facilities that only serve to
expand existing service or provide new service shall not be considered an
emergency.
   “EXCAVATE or EXCAVATION.” To dig into or in any way remove or physically
cut, disturb or penetrate any part of a right-of-way.
   “FACILITY or FACILITIES.” Any tangible asset in the right-of-way, including
but not limited to, equipment and apparatus such as pipes, conduits, wires,
cables, amplifiers, transformers, fiber optic lines, antennae, poles, towers,
or ducts, which are required, necessary, used, or useful in the provision of
utility or other services.
   “INSTALL, INSTALLED, OR INSTALLATION.” Placement of facilities within the
rights-of-way, including the replacement of existing facilities.
   “LESSEE.” A person who provides services within the city solely by leasing
facilities and who has no control over what or where or how any facilities are
erected, installed, maintained, operated, repaired, removed, restored, or
otherwise used.
   “MATERIAL.” With respect to degradation, means of a nature that causes or
results in an alteration or disruption to the city right-of-way.
   “PARTY or PERSON.” means any natural or corporate person, business
association, or other business entity including, but not limited to, a
partnership, a sole proprietorship, a political subdivision, a public or
private agency of any kind, a utility, a successor or assign of any of the
foregoing, or any other legal entity.
   “PLANNED PUBLIC PROJECT.” Any beautification, installation, excavation, re-
paving, or restoration activity in the rights-of-way that is undertaken by the
city as part of a budgeted public improvements plan approved by the City
Council and which is funded in whole or in part with public tax dollars in any
given fiscal year.
   “PUBLIC UTILITY or UTILITY.” A party that is defined in KRS Chapter 278 as a
utility:
      (1)   Is subject to the jurisdiction of the Kentucky Public Service
Commission, the FCC, or the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission; or
      (2)   Is required to obtain a franchise from the city to use and occupy
the right-of-way pursuant to Sections 163 and 164 of the Kentucky Constitution.
   “PERMIT.” An encroachment permit issued pursuant to this subchapter.
   “PERMITTEE.” A party holding an encroachment permit.
   “REGISTRANT.” Any party filing or required to file a registration statement
pursuant to this subchapter.
   “RESELLER SERVICE PROVIDER.” A person who provides services within the city
solely by reselling services and who has no control over what, where, or how
any facilities are erected, installed, maintained, operated, repaired, removed,
restored or otherwise used.
   “RIGHT-OF-WAY.” The surface of and the space above and below a public
roadway, highway, street, freeway, lane, path, sidewalk, alley, court,
boulevard, avenue, parkway, cartway, bicycle lane or path, public sidewalk, or
easement held by the city for the purpose of public travel and shall include
rights-of-way as shall be now held or hereafter held by the city. A right-of-
way does not include the airwaves above a right-of-way with regard to cellular
or other non-wire telecommunications or broadcast service.
   “TARIFF.” The internal regulations or guidelines of the utility industry as
promulgated or adopted by the Kentucky Public Service Commission or the Federal
Communications Commission.
(Ord. 2018-11-01, passed 12-13-18)
§ 91.42 ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT.
   The Director or the person designated by the Director in his or her absence
is the principal city official responsible for the administration of this
subchapter, and he or she may delegate any or all of the duties hereunder. The
Director shall be responsible for enforcing compliance with this subchapter and
may adopt reasonable procedures consistent with this chapter that are necessary
for its administration or enforcement.
(Ord. 2018-11-01, passed 12-13-18)
§ 91.43   GENERAL CONDITIONS RELATED TO FACILITIES LOCATED IN THE RIGHTS-OF-
WAY.
   (A)   Responsibility for costs. Any act that a party is required to perform
under this subchapter shall be performed at that party's cost, unless expressly
provided for otherwise in this subchapter.
   (B)   Construction procedures and placement of facilities; obligation to
minimize interference with the rights-of-way.
      (1)   All activities in the rights-of-way that are subject to this
subchapter shall be performed in compliance with all applicable laws,
ordinances, rules, and regulations. Each party subject to this subchapter shall
obtain all other necessary permits, licenses, and authority as required by this
subchapter or other applicable rule, law, or regulation.
      (2)   The city may require that facilities be installed at a particular
time, at a specific place or location, or in a particular manner, as a
condition of access to a particular right-of-way; may deny access if a party is
not willing to comply with the city's reasonable requirements; and may remove,
or require removal of, any facility that is not installed in compliance with
the requirements of this subchapter and charge that party for all the costs
associated with removal. Regardless of any other criteria, in the event the
placement or location of a facility in a particular area of the right-of-way
would constitute a public safety concern, the city may deny the placement of
that facility in that area or order its relocation or removal.
      (3)   In order to minimize interference with the use of the rights-of-way
by others, each party subject to this subchapter shall make reasonable efforts
to minimize the number of surface cuts made, shall make reasonable efforts to
coordinate such surface cuts with the city's paving schedule, and, if
appropriate, shall enter into joint trenching and other arrangements with other
parties.
      (4)   Any right-of-way or public property that is disturbed or damaged
during the construction, excavation, installation, operation, maintenance, or
repair of a facility shall be repaired within sixty (60) calendar days of the
completion of those activities which caused the disturbance or damage by the
party that disturbed or damaged the rights-of-way or public property. This time
may be extended by the Director upon demonstration of reasonable cause by the
subject party. Reasonable cause shall include, but not be limited to, inclement
weather, natural disasters, and similar emergencies, including natural
disasters and emergencies in other regions where a utility has sent local crews
to provide assistance. Reasonable cause shall also include delay due to
unforeseen public bidding complications and/or contractor non-availability for
public utilities that are subject to state laws governing bidding and public
procurements.
      (5)   Parties subject to this subchapter shall make every reasonable
effort to stack or bundle conduit where feasible so as to occupy as little
space as possible in the right-of-way, consistent with, and to the extent
permitted by, applicable codes, standards, and regulations.
      (6)   The minimum clearance of wires and cables above the rights-of-way,
and the placement of underground facilities, shall conform to Applicable codes,
standards, and regulations.
   (C)   Duty to maintain all property in right-of-way. All parties subject to
this subchapter shall maintain all of their facilities located in the right-of-
way in a manner that promotes the public safety. By way of example, but not
limitation, all facilities, including but not limited to poles and manholes,
shall be maintained in a safe condition at all times. In the event any facility
in the right-of-way endangers the public safety, the party responsible for such
facility shall take reasonable steps to rectify the situation immediately upon
notification and in accordance with this subchapter.
   (D)   Standards. All parties subject to this subchapter shall at all times
use ordinary care and shall install and maintain in use commonly accepted
methods and devices and utilize due diligence in performing any installation,
construction, maintenance or other work in the right-of-way.
   (E)   Relocation or removal. Pursuant to §
91.54 and consistent with the procedures and criteria contained therein, all
parties subject to this chapter shall, upon the provision of reasonable written
notice of, and at the direction of the Director, promptly relocate or remove
facilities, or rearrange aerial facilities, if required by a tariff, state or
federal law, a franchise agreement with the city, or for a public purpose
pursuant to this subchapter.
(Ord. 2018-11-01, passed 12-13-18)
§ 91.44 EXISTING FACILITIES.
   Facilities located in the rights-of-way prior to the effective date of this
subchapter may remain in the rights-of-way and shall not be considered in
violation of this subchapter, provided the party responsible for such
facilities under this subchapter complies with the provisions of this
subchapter, including the filing of a registration statement and the payment of
any applicable franchise fee within one hundred twenty (120) days of its
effective date. The registration statement of each party having any facilities
within the rights-of-way as of the date this subchapter is adopted shall
contain a general description of such registrant's facilities and the types of
services offered. Upon request by the city, the party responsible for such
facilities shall provide a map or other information regarding the location of
existing facilities. In addition, upon the request of the city and in order to
assist the city with implementing or enforcing the provisions of this
subchapter, each registrant shall make available for inspection on a reasonable
basis more detailed information, if available, regarding the location of its
facilities.
(Ord. 2018-11-01, passed 12-13-18)
§ 91.45 REGISTRATION.
   (A)   Requirement to register. Unless otherwise indicated by this
subchapter, it shall be unlawful for any party to install, operate, construct,
or maintain any facilities within the rights-of-way unless such facilities are
registered with the city by filing the registration statement required herein
and all applicable franchise fees are paid to the city.
   (B)   Registration. Any party who owns any facilities within the right-of-
way or who seeks to occupy the right-of-way to install, construct, or maintain
any facilities within the rights-of-way shall file a registration statement,
which shall be filed with the Director on a form provided by the city. The
registration statement shall include the following information:
      (1)   The identity and legal status of the registrant, including any
affiliates who own or operate any facilities in the rights-of-way and the name,
title, address, and telephone number of the individual responsible for the
accuracy of the registration statement.
      (2)   The registrant's address, telephone number, facsimile number, and
e-mail address, as well as a local point of contact available to be contacted
in the event of an emergency.
      (3)   A general description of all facilities that the registrant will be
installing in the right-of-way.
      (4)   A statement of the amount, if any, of any fee to which the
registrant is subject pursuant to any franchise agreement, lease, or other
agreement between the registrant and the city.
      (5)   Proof that the registrant is insured in the form of a copy of a
certificate of insurance or self-insurance that is in compliance with the
insurance requirements of this subchapter or its franchise agreement.
      (6)   If the registrant is a utility, the number of the registrant's
certificate of authorization or license to provide utility service issued by
the Kentucky Public Service Commission, or other state or federal authority, if
any.
   (C)   Fee. In order to compensate the city for its costs in administering
this subchapter, each registrant shall submit a fee of fifteen dollars ($15)
with each registration filed with the city.
   (D)   Notice of changes. The registrant shall notify the city within thirty
(30) days of any change in information contained in the registration statement.
   (E)   Exceptions for reseller service providers and lessees. A reseller
service provider shall not be required to register those facilities it utilizes
solely for the purpose of reselling, or those facilities it utilizes as a
lessee.
   (F)   Effect of registration. Registration does not convey legal or
equitable title to the rights-of-way, nor does it place a registrant in a
position of priority with respect to other registrants. Registration does not
excuse a party from having to obtain a franchise, lease, or other agreement, if
otherwise required, or from obtaining any required or necessary agreement with
the city or other party with respect to the placement of facilities on the
city's or another party's facilities.
   (G)   Exceptions. The following types of facilities are not required to be
registered pursuant to this subchapter, and the party responsible for such
facilities is not otherwise required to comply with the provisions of this
subchapter expressly pertaining to registrants. However, the party responsible
for such facilities is required to comply with all remaining provisions of this
subchapter that are not expressly limited to registrants, unless otherwise
exempted.
      (1)   Newspaper stands;
      (2)   Signage;
      (3)   Facilities associated with sidewalk cafes or the sale of goods or
merchandise;
      (4)   Facilities owned by the Commonwealth of Kentucky;
      (5)   Facilities installed by the city that are not used to provide
competitive utility services.
   (H)   Rejection or cancellation of registration.
      (1)   (a)   Within ten working days of the filing of the registration
statement or the discovery of the inaccuracy of the registration statement by
the city, the Director shall provide written notice to any party who;
            1.   Does not possess proper authorization to occupy the rights-of-
way with facilities; or
            2.   Fails to accurately complete the registration statement.
         (b)   Such written notice shall specify the deficiency and shall
notify the party what corrective action must be taken. If the party fails to
correct the deficiency within ten (10) days, the Director shall reject or
cancel the registration unless it can be shown by the party that significant
steps have been taken to correct the deficiency, upon which showing the
Director may provide an additional reasonable extension of time, or provide
approval of the registration contingent upon the party's ability to correct the
deficiency to the satisfaction of the Director.
      (2)   A registrant who no longer continues to place, maintain, or own any
facilities in the rights-of-way may cancel its registration upon providing the
city with written notice.
      (3)   Reconsideration.
         (a)   If the Director rejects or cancels a registration statement, the
registrant may file with the Director within ten (10) days of receipt of the
notice of rejection or cancellation a written request for reconsideration,
which shall include the basis for the registrant's position.
         (b)   The Director may hear any relevant evidence in deciding the
reconsideration and will notify the registrant in the event that further
information is required. The Director shall render a final decision in writing
within ten (10) days of receipt of the registrant's written request for
reconsideration or the receipt of any further evidence, whichever is later, and
will provide the registrant the basis for his or her decision.
(Ord. 2018-11-01, passed 12-13-18)
§ 91.46 REQUIREMENTS FOR REGISTRANTS.
   In addition to the other requirements set forth herein, each registrant
shall use reasonable efforts to:
   (A)   Cooperate with other registrants and the city to reasonably minimize
traffic and other disruptions, including surface cuts, taking into account the
efficiency, aesthetics, obtrusiveness, safety and costs of the use;
   (B)   Participate in such joint planning, construction, and advance
notification of right-of-way work, including, but not limited to, coordination
and consolidation of surface cut work, as currently coordinated by Planning and
Development Services of Kenton County (PDS);
   (C)   Cooperate with the city in any emergencies involving the rights-of-way
as further provided in this subchapter, including the maintenance of a twenty-
four (24) hour emergency contact;
   (D)   Designate a single point of contact for all purposes hereunder, as
well as comply with such other contact and notice protocols as required by this
subchapter or as promulgated by the Director pursuant to this subchapter;
   (E)   Require that any party performing any work or service in the right-of-
way on behalf of said registrant will comply with all applicable provisions of
this subchapter as well any other additional local regulation pertaining to the
performance of such work, and will identify the registrant for whom such
contractor is working. Said registrant shall be responsible and liable
hereunder only to the city for any damage to the right-of-way caused by the
actions of any such subcontractor or others as if said registrant had performed
or failed to perform any such obligation; and
   (F)   Take reasonable steps to provide notice to all occupants where any
work or service which requires an encroachment permit is scheduled to be
performed and may have an adverse effect on those properties that abut the
impacted site or impedes access to those properties abutting the impacted site.
Registrants shall make a good faith attempt to notify occupants regardless of
whether the registrant holds an easement on or over the property so that
occupants know which utility to contact with questions or concerns.
(Ord. 2018-11-01, passed 12-13-18)
§ 91.47 PERMITS.
   (A)   Unless otherwise exempted by this subchapter, any party performing an
activity within the rights-of-way requires an encroachment permit issued by the
city.
   (B)   Activities which may be performed by registrants without a permit. Any
registrant maintaining a valid registration pursuant to this subchapter may
perform the following activities without a permit, unless such work will
require the registrant to block a portion of a street in a manner that
obstructs traffic:
      (1)   Installation or replacement of cable or wiring on existing above-
ground utility poles;
      (2)   Repair, replacement, or maintenance of existing above-ground
facilities, including poles or miniature cellular towers, in the same location
with no street, curb, apron, sod, or sidewalk cuts, provided any replacement
facilities are of comparable size as the existing facilities; or
      (3)   Any work performed inside existing conduits, vaults, or similar
structures that do not otherwise require an encroachment permit.
      (4)   Any work which temporarily blocks or occupies a right-of-way,
unless the temporary blockage or occupation occurs on high volume traffic
areas. For the purpose of this sub-chapter high volume traffic areas are:
Thomas More Parkway, Center View Blvd., Rhine Valley Drive, and Horse Branch
Road. These high volume traffic areas require an encroachment permit prior to
any activity undertaken by registrants; however if the blockage or occupation
of these rights of ways shall only be for two hours or less, the permit fee
shall be waived.
   (C)   Encroachment permit. Except for those activities authorized without a
permit by division (B), a registrant shall apply to the city for an
encroachment permit in order to:
      (1)   Perform any excavating, digging, cutting, boring, or tunneling
into, through, or under any paved street surface, curb, sidewalk, sod, or apron
within the rights-of-way, and said permit shall include all aspects of the
anticipated activities without the need for multiple permits;
      (2)   Perform any construction, installation, repair, replacement, or
maintenance of facilities in the right-of-way; or
      (3)   Temporarily occupy the right-of-way.
   (D)   Time for application.
      (1)   An encroachment permit for the performance of non-emergency work
shall be applied for at least ten (10) days prior to such planned activity.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Director may waive said time period for good
cause shown. The city shall approve, deny, or conditionally approve a permit
application within five (5) business days of the receipt of the application,
and in the case of a conditional approval or denial, state in writing the basis
for such determination and what conditions must be met by the applicant in
order to obtain a permit. Any work performed without proper notification shall
constitute work being done without a permit, and as such constitute a violation
of this subchapter.
      (2)   A permit issued pursuant to an emergency shall be applied for no
later than three (3) business days after the discovery of the emergency.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Director may waive said time period for good
cause shown. Emergency work, as defined by this subchapter, may be completed
without first obtaining a permit.
   (E)   Application for permit.
      (1)   All applications for permits shall contain the following
information:
         (a)   The identity and legal status of the applicant (the party to
whom the permit is issued).
         (b)   The name, address and telephone number of the officer, agent, or
employee requesting the permit.
         (c)   A description of all activities covered by the permit, the
locations and estimated dates and times of commencement and completion thereof.
         (d)   The number of all surface cuts, if any, to be covered by the
permit, and the approximate dimensions of each cut.
      (2)   A single permit may be issued for multiple surface cuts or
installations, provided that no such surface cut or installation covered in a
single permit shall be more than five hundred (500) feet apart, or upon a
showing by the permit applicant that the granting of a single permit shall not
significantly affect the city's ability to efficiently administer this
subchapter.
   (F)   Fee.
      (1)   In order to compensate the city for its costs in administering this
subchapter, each registrant shall be assessed a fee of:
         (a)   Fifty dollars ($50) upon application for a permit authorizing a
street surface cut;
         (b)   Twenty dollars ($20) upon application for a permit authorizing a
sidewalk or bike path cut, or for a permit authorizing a bore cut; and/or
         (c)   Fifteen dollars ($15) upon application for a permit authorizing
a sod cut, for a permit authorizing the blocking of any street in a manner that
obstructs traffic, or for any other encroachment not listed above.
      (2)   The appropriate fee shall be assessed for each category applied for
on one permit, but no applicant shall be assessed a fee of more than fifty
dollars ($50) total per project or permit application.
      (3)   The city shall invoice all permit fees to the applicant on a
quarterly basis, which shall be due to the city thirty (30) days after the date
of the invoice.
   (G)   Notification of inspections. If the city knows at the time of the
issuance of the permit that it shall require an inspection pursuant to this
subchapter, it shall notify the permittee that such an inspection is required.
   (H)   Denial. The Director, in his or her reasonable discretion, may deny or
revoke an encroachment permit, or may issue a permit that is contingent upon
the applicant performing certain requirements that shall be specified in the
permit. A decision by the Director to deny an encroachment permit application
shall be based on at least one (1) of the following criteria:
      (1)   It significantly conflicts with the location of existing facilities
or facilities that are planned or permitted for installation, or city
improvements or facilities that are planned in that area;
      (2)   It significantly conflicts with the timing of other ongoing
activity taking place in the same area of the right-of-way, or with a
previously scheduled activity;
      (3)   It conflicts with the planned grading, re-grading, construction,
reconstruction, widening, or altering of any right-of-way, including streets
and sidewalks, or the construction, reconstruction, repair, maintenance, or
alteration of a public improvement, including, but not limited to, storm
sewers, sanitary sewers, and street lights;
      (4)   It conflicts with an approved development plan in that geographic
area that requires all or certain types of facilities to be located in certain
locations, areas, or parts of the rights-of-way;
      (5)   It is an above-ground facility other than a utility pole, fire
hydrant, or street light that, because of its size, presents significant public
safety concerns or violates guidelines or procedures pertaining to aesthetics
that are duly adopted by the city;
      (6)   It fails to take reasonable measures to disguise or cover the
facility as required by the city;
      (7)   It conflicts with a requirement contained in the applicant's
franchise agreement;
      (8)   It is located in a type of right-of-way, such as a bicycle lane or
path, in which the city has made a determination that facilities are not to be
installed;
      (9)   It would threaten public health, safety, or welfare, or otherwise
constitute a violation of the provisions of this subchapter; or
      (10)   The applicant is not otherwise in material compliance with the
provisions of this subchapter.
   (I)   Exceptions. Permits shall not be required to be obtained pursuant to
this subchapter if the facilities involved are of the following nature.
However, the party responsible for such facilities shall comply with all
remaining provisions of this subchapter, as well as any other chapter that may
apply, unless otherwise exempted.
      (1)   Newspaper stands;
      (2)   Signage;
      (3)   Facilities associated with sidewalk cafes or the sale of goods or
merchandise;
      (4)   Facilities owned by the Commonwealth of Kentucky;
      (5)   Facilities installed to provide new development with connections to
utility service and for which the city is provided performance and warranty
surety protection under its land development regulations; and
      (6)   Facilities installed by the city that are not used to provide
competitive utility services.
   (J)   Permit availability. Permits issued pursuant to this subchapter shall
be available at all times at the indicated work site and shall be available for
inspection by the Director or other city employees or officials upon request.
(Ord. 2018-11-01, passed 12-13-18)
§ 91.48 EMERGENCIES; POWER TO ORDER REPAIRS.
   (A)   Because emergency repairs can be disruptive to the community,
including planned business activities of residents, a registrant shall notify
the city within two (2) business days from discovery of the emergency, via
telephone, facsimile, text, e-mail, or in-person communication with a city
official, of any event regarding its facilities already located within the
right-of-way that it considers to be an emergency. The registrant may proceed
to take whatever actions are necessary to respond to an emergency. Within three
(3) business days of the discovery of the emergency, the registrant shall have
applied for any necessary permit and provided the city with a written
notification of said emergency, which notice shall include, at a minimum, the
time, date, location, and extent of any excavation or other work performed. If
the city becomes aware of an emergency regarding a registrant's facilities, the
Director or his or her designee shall attempt to contact that registrant
immediately.
   (B)   If the city determines that the right-of-way associated with a surface
cut has been degraded or caved in more than one-half (1/2) inch below grade,
and within two (2) years after any surface cut, it shall notify the party or
parties responsible for such degradation or cave-in of this determination and,
in the case of a clear and immediate danger or hazard to vehicular or
pedestrian traffic, the city shall order the party or parties responsible to
take immediate precautionary measures to direct vehicular or pedestrian traffic
around and away from the degradation or cave-in. In addition, the city shall
order the party or parties responsible to make necessary corrections and
repairs, which may be temporary in nature, to cure the immediate danger or
hazard within two (2) days and perform any additional work consistent with the
issuance of any necessary permit. The city shall thereafter order the party or
parties responsible to make all necessary permanent corrections and repairs
within ninety (90) days.
   (C)   In all other cases of degradation or cave-in, the city shall order the
party or parties responsible for such degradation or cave-in to take immediate
precautionary measures to direct vehicular or pedestrian traffic around and
away from the degradation or cave-in, and shall order the party or parties
responsible to make all necessary corrections and repairs within thirty (30)
days.
   (D)   In the event the city orders corrections or repairs pursuant to this
section, and the party responsible fails to respond within the time allotted,
the city shall cause the necessary corrections and repairs to be made, and
shall submit a statement for the costs incurred by the city in making such
corrections and repairs to the responsible party, which statement shall include
an additional administrative fee of five hundred dollars ($500). In that event,
and if the said statement of costs and fees is not paid by the responsible
party within forty-five (45) days, the city shall suspend the issuance of all
future permits to the responsible party until such time as the costs are paid.
   (E)   This section shall not be interpreted to preclude the city from taking
any and all reasonable protective measures with respect to the right-of-way and
the health and safety of the general public, including, but not limited to,
blocking the general public's access to the area, temporarily repairing the
right-of-way, or removing any facility that constitutes an immediate health or
safety concern. The city shall not undertake to repair or remove a facility
unless all other reasonable methods of response to the emergency have been
exercised.
   (F)   Any other provision in this section notwithstanding, the Director may
extend any time period under this section for good cause, and the requested
extension upon a showing of good cause by the applicant, shall not be
unreasonably withheld or denied. Good cause shall include, but not be limited
to, inclement weather, natural disasters, and similar emergencies, including
natural disasters and emergencies in other regions where a utility has sent
local crews to provide assistance.
(Ord. 2018-11-01, passed 12-13-18)
§ 91.49 INSURANCE.
   Each registrant shall maintain in full force and effect a commercial general
liability insurance policy reasonably acceptable to the city with a minimum
policy limit of one million dollars ($1,000,000) per occurrence and shall
provide the city with a certificate of insurance evidencing the insurance
policy required by this section. The certificate shall state that the insurance
policy shall not be canceled or non-renewed until after thirty (30) days’
notice has been provided to the city; however, insurance may be canceled and
replaced with a policy that continues to meet the requirements of this section.
A registrant may satisfy the insurance requirements and conditions of this
section under a reasonably acceptable self-insurance plan. The city reserves
the right to impose reasonable additional insurance requirements as part of a
franchise agreement.
(Ord. 2018-11-01, passed 12-13-18)
§ 91.50 INDEMNIFICATION; HOLD HARMLESS.
   (A)   (1)   Consistent with Kentucky law, each registrant shall defend,
indemnify, and hold harmless the city, its elected and appointed officials,
boards, members, agents, and employees against any and all claims, suits,
causes of action, proceedings, judgments for damages or equitable relief, and
costs and expenses, including reasonable attorney's fees, arising from
liability or claims of liability for bodily injury or death to persons or
property damage in which the claim arises out of the installation,
construction, repair, maintenance, or operation of its facilities, and in the
event of a final judgment being obtained against the city either independently
or jointly with the registrant, the registrant shall pay such judgment with all
costs and hold the city harmless thereon.
      (2)   Within ten (10) business days of learning of any claim, suit, cause
of action, proceeding judgement for damages or equitable relief that might
trigger the indemnification obligation, the city shall notify the registrant of
the existence of the claim, suit, cause of action, proceeding or judgment in
writing and shall provide all information known to the city regarding same.
Registrant shall defend against the claim, suit, cause of action, proceeding or
judgment on behalf of the city and may select the counsel to represent the city
in such an action or proceeding. The city shall not agree to any settlement or
compromise for which an indemnification obligation applies unless the
registrant consents to the settlement or compromise.
   (B)   This section shall not apply to registrants which are political
subdivisions of the Commonwealth of Kentucky, municipal corporations, special
districts, or special purpose governmental entities.
(Ord. 2018-11-01, passed 12-13-18)
§ 91.51 JOINT PLANNING AND CONSTRUCTION; COORDINATION OF EXCAVATION.
   (A)   Any registrant owning, operating, or installing facilities in the
rights-of-way that provide water, sewer, gas, electric, telephone, internet,
cable, video, cellular, or other utility services, may at their discretion
prepare and submit to the director a master plan or future plans for right-of-
way work in the city.
   (B)   The city shall annually prepare a listing of planned public
improvements including, but not limited to, streets, sidewalks, bike paths,
storm water improvements or other such improvements along with their
anticipated bid date. The list of planned public improvements shall be prepared
and be available at least six (6) months prior to their intended bid date. The
list shall be provided to utilities on record as having filed a registration
with the city at that time. The list of public improvements shall also be
submitted to Planning and Development Services of Kenton County. Implementation
of planned public improvements shall be contingent upon approval by City
Council and the availability of necessary funding.
   (C)   Prior to applying for a permit for work involving a surface cut in the
right-of-way, a party shall review the city's current repaying and resurfacing
and shall coordinate, to the extent practicable with each registrant, utility
and street work shown on such plan to minimize damage to, and avoid undue
disruption and interference with, the public use of the rights-of-way.
   (D)   Any item of information provided by a registrant consistent with this
sub-chapter which the registrant considers to be proprietary must be clearly
and conspicuously designated “proprietary” by the registrant. Any item clearly
and conspicuously designated as proprietary by the registrant shall be
maintained confidentially by the city and not publicly disclosed, disseminated,
or shared with third parties without specific written consent of the
registrant. Any item not labeled proprietary shall be not be considered
proprietary by the city and may be subject to public disclosure under
Kentucky's Open Records laws.
(Ord. 2018-11-01, passed 12-13-18)
§ 91.52 INSTALLATION, RELOCATION, OR DISCONTINUATION OF FACILITIES.
   (A)   Provisions apply unless direct conflict exists. The provisions of this
section shall apply unless they directly conflict with a tariff, state or
Federal law, or the provisions of the applicant's franchise agreement with the
city. This section shall not be interpreted to impair the ability of a
registrant to perform work not requiring a permit unless a public safety
concern would arise if such work were to be performed.
   (B)   General application. Upon the written notice of and at the direction
of the Director, a registrant shall relocate or remove facilities, or rearrange
aerial facilities, if required by a tariff, state or Federal law, a franchise
agreement with the city, or the provisions of this subchapter.
   (C)   Coordination. To the extent reasonably possible, registrants shall
coordinate the installation, relocation, and removal of their facilities with
each other in order to avoid issues with respect to the location of facilities
within the right-of-way.
   (D)   Procedure. The Director shall notify the applicant if the Director
determines that a facility may not be installed as requested by the applicant.
Upon determining that a facility may not be installed as requested, the
Director shall provide written notice to the applicant as early as practicable
and in conformity with any specific applicable notice requirement. The notice
shall contain a description of the area affected as well as the reason for the
Director's determination. The Director may issue a permit that is contingent
upon certain condition(s) being fulfilled with respect to the criteria
contained below.
   (E)   Reservation of rights. Notwithstanding any other provision in this
subchapter, the city specifically reserves the right to order the removal or
relocation of any facility installed after the effective date of this chapter,
at no cost to the city, for which the appropriate permit was not obtained.
   (F)   Preclusion on cutting newly paved surfaces.
      (1)   If any street is designated for resurfacing or reconstruction by
the city on the list maintained pursuant to this subchapter, the registrant
shall make any extensions, changes, or installations of or to its facilities
ahead of such activity. The registrant shall notify the Director no less than
forty-five (45) days prior to the city's anticipated bid date of its desire to
perform such extensions, changes, or installations, and may be allowed up to
ninety (90) additional days to complete the work.
      (2)   If any street is about to be constructed, reconstructed, widened,
altered, or paved by the city, the Director shall provide notice to
registrants, and the registrant shall make any extensions, changes, or
installations of or to its facilities ahead of such activity. Depending on the
amount of such extensions, changes, or installations to be performed, the
registrant may be allowed up to one hundred twenty (120) days to complete the
work, which the Director may extend for good cause. It is expected that the
registrant shall not disturb the city's improvements within the following two
(2) year period, so as to minimize the premature degradation of the right-of-
way caused by multiple alterations and surface cuts. Upon a registrant's
showing of undue hardship or emergency, the Director may grant permission for
limited disturbment of the newly paved surface within the two (2) year period.
Registrant shall in those instances comply with all other relevant provisions
of this chapter pertaining to restoration of the right-of-way.
   (G)   Relocation.
      (1)   Upon providing reasonable advanced written notice to the registrant
or other responsible party, the Director may order the relocation or
rearrangement of any facility, in his or her reasonable discretion and in good
faith, if any of the following arise with respect to that facility:
         (a)   The relocation or rearrangement is necessary for the purpose of
public safety.
         (b)   The relocation or rearrangement is required by a tariff, state
or Federal law, or a franchise agreement with the city.
         (c)   The relocation or rearrangement is necessary to assist in the
installation of facilities by another registrant or permittee.
         (d)   The relocation or rearrangement is necessary as a result of the
city adopting a planned public project or policy requiring that facilities be
relocated.
         (e)   So as to conform to the established grade or line of a right-of-
way or so as not to interfere with public improvements whenever the city shall
grade, regrade, construct, reconstruct, widen, or alter any right-of-way, or
construct, reconstruct, repair, maintain or alter a public improvement,
including, but not limited to, storm sewers, or street lights therein.
      (2)   The city shall coordinate the new location with the registrant or
permittee as part of the permitting process.
      (3)   Relocation underground. If, as a result of a planned public
project, a registrant is required to relocate facilities that were previously
and lawfully located above-ground, and the city requests, as part of the
relocation, that the facilities be relocated to underground, the city shall
bear the cost for the difference in cost between an aerial and underground
facility of the same type, unless an agreement to the contrary is otherwise
entered into by the appropriate parties.
      (4)   Relocation for public safety reasons. If the basis for the city
ordering the relocation of a facility is a public safety concern, the
registrant shall relocate the facility at no cost to the city.
      (5)   Relocations to assist in the placement of other facilities. If a
registrant is required to relocate facilities to assist in the installation of
facilities by another registrant or permittee, the party seeking to install the
facilities shall bear the costs of said relocation, unless an agreement to the
contrary is otherwise entered into by the appropriate parties.
      (6)   Relocations where the cost is borne by the city. Notwithstanding
any language in this subchapter to the contrary, unless an agreement to the
contrary is otherwise entered into by the appropriate parties, the cost of the
following types of relocations shall be borne by the city:
         (a)   The relocation is the result of the city adopting a plan or
policy requiring that facilities be placed underground in that location, if, at
the time the facility was installed, such a plan was not in place;
         (b)   The location in which the facility is currently sited was not a
part of the right-of-way or was not otherwise owned or controlled by the city
at the time the facility was installed;
         (c)   The city has previously ordered that the facility be relocated
to comply with a public improvement project, the registrant or party has
substantially complied with such order, and the city then orders the registrant
or party to relocate that facility to a different area as part of the same
project; or
         (d)   The city orders the relocation of a facility to accommodate a
public improvement project, and the construction of such project is
subsequently terminated by the city.
   (H)   Discontinuance of use.
      (1)   Any party discontinuing use of a facility shall notify the Director
in writing of such discontinued use within thirty (30) days. Said notice shall
describe the facilities for which the use is to be discontinued and include a
statement as to whether the registrant intends to leave the facilities in place
for potential future use, remove the facilities, or abandon the facilities in
place. The registrant shall remain responsible for the maintenance, repair, and
condition of discontinued facilities at all times.
      (2)   The Director may order that the responsible party remove, replace,
or repair any discontinued facility which significantly interferes with the
city's maintenance of the right-of-way.
(Ord. 2018-11-01, passed 12-13-18)
§ 91.53 ABOVE-GROUND FACILITIES.
   (A)   The following regulations shall apply to above-ground facilities:
      (1)   To the extent possible, registrants shall use poles and conduit
existing at the time of permitting in installing above-ground facilities.
      (2)   All poles or wire holding structures are subject to any applicable,
duly adopted regulations regarding location, height, type, or other pertinent
aspect.
      (3)   All transmission and distribution structures, poles, and other
lines and equipment installed or erected by registrant under this subchapter
shall be located so as to minimize any interference with the proper use of the
right-of-way with the rights and reasonable convenience of property owners
whose property adjoins or abuts any affected right-of-way. Subject to
applicable codes, overhead drops shall be as close as possible to other utility
drops in order to concentrate the drops in as small an area as possible to
minimize visual clutter and interference with the use of private property.
(Ord. 2018-11-01, passed 12-13-18)
§ 91.54 PATCHING AND RESTORATION STANDARDS.
   (A)   Minimum standards. Patching and restoration of the rights-of-way shall
be performed according to the applicable standards and with materials
comparable to those used by the city, and at a minimum shall comply with the
applicable standard engineering drawing. All edges of a surface cut made to a
paved street shall be sawed, and such surface cuts shall be sealed with a
sealant approved by the city. In addition, the city shall approve all backfill
material utilized.
   (B)   Additional standards. In special circumstances, the Director may
impose additional restoration requirements upon a determination that the
minimum patching and restoration standards are inadequate because of at least
one of the following considerations:
      (1)   The number, size, depth, and duration of the excavations;
      (2)   Disruptions or damage to the right-of-way;
      (3)   The traffic volume carried by the right-of-way;
      (4)   The pre-excavation condition of the right-of-way; and
      (5)   The remaining life expectancy of the right-of-way affected by the
excavation.
   (C)   Guarantees. Each party performing excavations pursuant to a permit
required by this subchapter guarantees its restoration work and shall maintain
it for one (1) year following its completion. During this period, it shall,
upon notification from the Director, correct all restoration work to the extent
necessary, using the method required by the Director.
(Ord. 2018-11-01, passed 12-13-18)
§ 91.55 INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   Site inspection.
      (1)   Any party issued a permit pursuant to this subchapter shall make
the worksite available to the city and to all others as authorized by law for
inspection at all reasonable times during the execution of and upon completion
of the work. If the city has given the party notice of its intent to inspect
the excavation, the permittee shall provide the city with advanced notice of at
least two (2) business days when the appropriate portion of the activity is
ready for inspection, if the permittee was not notified of the city's intent to
inspect the excavation site as a condition of the permit or the city failed to
inspect after being provided the required notice, the excavation may be
permanently covered.
      (2)   Any excavation with a required approval or inspection that has been
covered prior to the two (2) day notification period shall be uncovered for
inspection at that permittee's expense, upon request of the city.
      (3)   If the construction or restoration does not meet the standards
under this chapter, the city may order reasonable corrective measures.
   (B)   Authority of the Director.
      (1)   At the time of inspection, the Director may order the immediate
cessation of any work that he or she in good faith believes poses a serious
threat to the life, health, safety or well-being of the public.
      (2)   The Director may issue an order to the permittee for any work that
does not conform to the terms of the permit or other applicable ordinance,
resolution, regulation, standard, condition, or code. The order shall state
that failure to correct the violation will be cause for revocation of the
permit. The permittee shall proceed with the corrective work before undertaking
any additional work under the permit. Within thirty (30) days after issuance of
the order, the permittee shall present proof to the Director that the violation
has been corrected. If such proof has not been presented within the required
time, the Director may revoke the permit. or for good cause shown, extend the
period of time allowed for the corrective work to be completed.
(Ord. 2018-11-01, passed 12-13-18)
§ 91.56 APPEAL.
   (A)   Any party aggrieved by the following actions of the Director or the
city may appeal pursuant to this section:
      (1)   The denial of registration following the reconsideration process
provided for in this subchapter;
      (2)   The denial of a permit under this subchapter;
      (3)   The issuance of a conditional permit under this subchapter, where
the party disagrees with certain of the conditions(s) imposed;
      (4)   The revocation of any permit under this subchapter;
      (5)   A decision pertaining to installation, relocation, or removal of a
facility pursuant to this subchapter;
      (6)   The imposition of any fee, penalty, or charge under this subchapter
which the party believes to be invalid.
   (B)   The appealed action shall be reviewed, upon written request, by the
City Administrator, or his or her designee, who shall act within a period of
ten (10) days from the receipt of the written request. The appealing party
shall be afforded the opportunity to be heard and present relevant evidence to
the City Administrator should it desire to do so, and the decision by the City
Administrator shall be in writing and provide the basis for the decision.
   (C)   Any party aggrieved by a decision of the City Administrator pursuant
to division (B) may appeal the City Administrator's decision, in writing, to
the City's Public Works Committee within ten (10) days of the City
Administrator's decision. The appealing party shall be afforded the opportunity
to be heard and present relevant evidence to the Public Works Committee should
it desire to do so, and the decision by the Public Works Committee, shall be in
writing and provide the basis for the decision. The written decision of the
Public Works Committee shall constitute a final administrative decision, which
may be appealed to the Kenton Circuit Court within thirty (30) days of the
Public Works Committee's written decision.
(Ord. 2018-11-01, passed 12-13-18)
§ 91.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Whoever violates any provision of §§
91.30 to
91.33 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall, upon conviction, be fined not
more than one hundred dollars ($100) per day, and each day that a violation
exists shall be deemed a separate day and subject to separate penalty.
   (B)   Any person or entity that violates §
91.34 shall he subject to a civil penalty in the amount of one hundred dollars
($100) per day per violation. In addition, the city shall have the right to
remove all non-permitted items in the improved or unimproved right-of-way
without notice to the owner.
   (C)   Any entity which violates the provisions of §
91.45(A) or (B) shall be assessed a civil penalty in the amount of one thousand
dollars ($1,000).
   (D)   Any entity which violates the provisions of §
91.47 shall be assessed a civil penalty in the amount of one hundred dollars
($100) for the first violation within a four (4) year period; five hundred
dollars ($500) for the second violation within a four (4) year period; one
thousand dollars ($1,000) for the third violation within a four (4) year
period; and three thousand dollars ($3,000) for each subsequent violation
within a four (4) year period.
   (E)   Any entity which violates any provision of §§
91.40 to
91.55, other than §§
91.45(A),
91.45(B), or
91.47, shall be assessed a civil penalty in the amount of one hundred dollars
($100) per violation.
(Am. Ord. 2018-11-01, passed 12-13-18; Am. Ord. 2023-12-02, passed 1-11-24)
CHAPTER 92: NUISANCES
Section
   
92.01   Definitions
   
92.02   Common law and statutory nuisances
   
92.03   Certain conditions declared a nuisance
   
92.04   Abatement procedure
   
92.05   Nuisance created by others
   
92.06   Suspension of license
   
92.07   Cutting weeds during summer months
   
92.08   Property owner’s responsibility to maintain property fronting and
abutting streets, sidewalks, and any other public rights-of-way
   
92.09   Unusual and loud noise prohibited
 
   
92.99   Penalty
§ 92.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   "AUTOMOBILE PARTS." Any portion or parts of any motor driven vehicle as
detached from the vehicle as a whole.
   "FOWL." Any hen, female chicken, chick, rooster, cockerel, duck, turkey,
pheasant or any of several other usually gallinaceous birds.
   "INOPERATIVE CONDITION." Unable to move under its own power due to defective
or missing parts, and which has remained in such condition for a period of not
less than ten (10) consecutive days.
   "MOTOR VEHICLE." Any style or type of motor driven vehicle used for the
conveyance of persons or property.
   "NUISANCE." Public nuisance.
   "SCRAP METAL." Pieces or parts of steel, iron, tin, zinc, copper, aluminum,
or any alloy thereof, whether covered with porcelain or any other material,
whether intact or in parts, which has served its usefulness in its original
form and can no longer be used for its originally intended purpose.
   “UNFIT FOR FURTHER USE.” In such a dangerous condition; having defective or
missing parts; or in such a condition generally as to be unfit for further use
as a conveyance.
(Am. Ord. 2021-11-01, passed 12-9-21)
________________
Cross-reference:
   For other definitions relevant to this chapter, see §
10.02
§ 92.02 COMMON LAW AND STATUTORY NUISANCES.
   In addition to what is declared in this chapter to be a public nuisance,
those offenses which are known to the common law and statutes of Kentucky as
public nuisances may be treated as such and be proceeded against as is provided
in this chapter or in accordance with any other provision of law.
Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.03 CERTAIN CONDITIONS DECLARED A NUISANCE.
   It shall be unlawful for any individual to create a public nuisance or the
owner, occupant, or person having control or management of any land within the
city to permit a public nuisance to develop thereon. The following conditions
are declared to be public nuisances:
   (A)   Dangerous trees or stacks adjoining street. Any tree, stack, or other
object standing in such a condition that it will, if the condition is allowed
to continue, endanger the life, limb, or property of, or cause hurt, damage, or
injury to persons or property upon the public streets or public ways adjacent
thereto, by the falling thereof or of parts thereof.
   (B)   Accumulation of rubbish. An accumulation on any premises of filth,
refuse, trash, garbage, or other waste material which endangers the public
health, welfare, or safety, or materially interferes with the peaceful
enjoyment by owners or occupants of adjacent property because of the danger of
its catching or communicating fire, its attracting and propagating vermin,
rodents, or insects, or its blowing of rubbish into any street, sidewalk, or
property of another.
   (C)   Storage of explosives. The storage of explosive material which creates
a safety hazard to other property or persons in the vicinity.
   (D)   Weeds and grass. The excessive growth of weeds, grass, or other
vegetation. Unless otherwise provided, "EXCESSIVE" shall mean growth to a
height of twelve (12) inches or more.
   (E)   Open wells. The maintenance of any open, uncovered, or insecurely
covered cistern, cellar, well, pit, excavation, or vault situated upon private
premises in any open or unfenced lot or place.
   (F)   Trees and shrubbery obstructing streets, sidewalks, and drainage. The
growing and maintenance of trees or shrubbery which in any way interferes with
the use, construction, or maintenance of streets or sidewalks, causes injury to
streets or sidewalks, or constitutes an obstruction to drainage.
   (G)   Keeping of animals. The failure to keep the animal's pen, yard, lot or
other enclosure in a sanitary condition free from preventable offensive odors
or the keeping or having within the city an animal that habitually or
repeatedly makes loud noises or conducts itself in any way as to be a public
nuisance.
   (H)   Junk; scrap metal; motor vehicles. The storage of motor vehicles in an
inoperative condition, motor vehicles unfit for further use, automobile parts,
or scrap metal within the city limits except on premises authorized by the city
for such purposes.
   (I)   The feeding of ducks, geese, pigeons, and similar such birds and wild
animals, such as, raccoons and squirrels in a manner causing or contributing to
unsanitary conditions and offensive odors within the city limits. This would
include making mass quantities of food available to groups of waterfowl,
pigeons, or wild animals, on repeated occasions, so as to encourage them to
amass in one particular location. This does not include maintenance of
birdhouses or backyard bird feeders designed to feed sparrows, cardinals,
hummingbirds, or similar such birds.
   (J)   The keeping of any animal or fowl that causes frequent or long
continued noise that disturbs the comfort or repose of any persons in the
vicinity.
   (K)   The keeping or harboring of any fowl on residential property without
the applicable license issued by the city, or the failure of a person holding
such a license to adhere to the requirements to harbor fowl on his or her
property.
(Am. Ord. 2001-5-2, passed 6-14-01; Am. Ord. 2011-05-01, passed 6-9-11; Am.
Ord. 2021-11-01, passed 12-9-21; Am. Ord. 2024-03-01, passed 4-11-24)  Penalty,
see §
92.99
§ 92.04 ABATEMENT PROCEDURE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the owner, occupant, or person having the
control or management of any land within the city to permit a public nuisance,
health hazard, or source of filth to develop thereon.
   (B)   Whenever a nuisance situation is discovered, the authorized city
official shall give five (5) days' written notice to remedy the nuisance
situation. The notice shall be mailed to the last known address of the owner of
property, as it appears on the current tax assessment roll. Upon the failure of
the owner of the property to comply, the authorized city official is authorized
to send employees upon the property to remedy the situation.
   (C)   The city shall have a lien against the property for the reasonable
value of labor and materials used in remedying the nuisance situation. The
affidavit of the authorized city official shall constitute prima facie evidence
of the amount of the lien and the regularity of the proceedings pursuant to KRS
381.770 and this section, and shall be recorded in the office of the County
Clerk. The lien shall be notice to all persons from the time of its recording
and shall bear interest at the rate established by the city thereafter until
paid. The lien created shall take precedence over all other subsequent liens,
except state, county, school board, and city taxes, and may be enforced by
judicial proceeding. In addition to this remedy or any other remedy authorized
by law, the owner of a property upon which a lien has been attached pursuant to
this section shall be personally liable for the amount of the lien, including
all interest, civil penalties, and other charges and the city may bring a civil
action against the owner and shall have the same remedies as provided for the
recovery of a debt owed.
§ 92.05 NUISANCE CREATED BY OTHERS.
   For the purposes of this chapter, it shall not be essential that the
nuisance be created or contributed to by the owner, occupant, or person having
control or management of the premises, but merely that the nuisance be created
or contributed to by licensees, invitees, guests, or other persons for whose
conduct the owner or operator is responsible, or by persons for whose conduct
the owner or operator is not responsible, but by the exercise care ought to
have become aware of.
§ 92.06 SUSPENSION OF LICENSE.
   (A)   Whenever it is brought to the attention of the City Council that a
nuisance exists and the City Council deems that there is an immediate threat to
the public health, safety, welfare, the City Council may by majority vote
suspend the license of any person conducting business upon the premises where
the nuisance exists.
   (B)   The Clerk shall cause notice of the suspension to be served personally
upon the licensee or at the premises where the nuisance exists.
   (C)   Upon the application of the licensee, the City Council may remove the
suspension upon such terms as it may direct.
§ 92.07 CUTTING WEEDS DURING SUMMER MONTHS.
   (A)   The owners, users, or occupiers of lots located within residential
zones of the city shall cause the grass, weeds and other vegetation growing on
same to be cut and maintained. The lots shall be cut one time each and every
month each year beginning with the month of April and ending in the month of
September.
   (B)   Any owners, users, or occupiers who fail or refuse to cut their real
property by the dates set forth in division (A) above shall be subject to a
fine of $25 and in addition shall reimburse the city its cost of cutting the
lots or areas subject to a minimum of $25.
(Ord. 1970-8-1, passed 8-5-70; Am. Ord. 1972-7-2, passed 7-5-72; Am. Ord. 1982-
9-1, passed 11-11-82; Am. Ord. 1991-9-1 passed 10-10-91) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.08 PROPERTY OWNER’S RESPONSIBILITY TO MAINTAIN PROPERTY FRONTING AND
ABUTTING STREETS SIDEWALKS AND ANY OTHER PUBLIC RIGHTS OF WAYS.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of every person, or business entity owning lots
or real estate fronting and abutting any street or sidewalk or public right-of-
way in the city to cut and maintain the property from the edge of the street or
curb line to the edge of the property owner’s property. This duty includes
maintenance of road verges which are those areas between the sidewalk and the
public street and such shall be maintained by the person or business entity
whose property adjoins the sidewalk.
   (B)   All resident persons or business entities shall keep the sidewalks
free from all tall grass, weeds, waste paper, trash, refuse, leaves, dirt, and
all foreign matter and free of all overhanging bushes, shrubs, trees, and other
vegetation, which in any way might impair the health, safety, and comfort of
the general public using the sidewalk and/or street.
   (C)   Failure to comply with the terms of this section shall be considered a
public nuisance. Property owners who fail to comply with this section shall be
subject to a daily fine of $25 as well as a reimbursement to the city for its
costs of cutting or cleaning the property area subject to a minimum cost of 25.
Each day’s continued violation shall constitute a separate, ongoing offense,
subject to imposition a daily fine for each day of violation.
(Ord. 2019-07-01, passed 8-8-19)
§ 92.09 UNUSUAL AND LOUD NOISE PROHIBITED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to create or
assist in creating any unreasonably loud and disturbing noise in the city.
Noise of such character, intensity, and duration as to be detrimental to the
public health, welfare, and peace is prohibited.
   (B)   The following acts, among others, are declared to be loud and
disturbing noises in violation of this section, but this enumeration shall not
be deemed to be exclusive:
      (1)   The sounding of any horn or signal device on any automobile,
motorcycle, bus, or other vehicle, except as a danger signal, so as to create
any unreasonably loud or harsh sound, or the sounding of such device for an
unreasonable period of time, or the use of any gong or siren upon any vehicle,
other than police, fire, or other emergency vehicle.
      (2)   The voice of an individual or group of individuals and/or the
operation of any such radio, phonograph, electronic device, machine, sound
system, or other musical instrument between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 7:00
a.m. in such a manner as to be plainly audible at a distance of fifteen (15)
feet from the building, structure, area, or vehicle in which it is located,
which shall be prima facie evidence of a violation of this section.
      (3)   The use of any automobile, motorcycle, or vehicle so out of repair,
so loaded, or in a manner as to create loud grating, grinding, rattling, or
other noise.
      (4)   The blowing of any horn or steam whistle attached to any stationary
boiler or engine, except to give notice of the time to begin or stop work or as
a warning of danger.
      (5)   The sounding of any bell or gong attached to any building or
premises which disturbs the quiet or repose of persons in the vicinity thereof.
      (6)   The creation of any excessive noise on any street adjacent to any
school, institution of learning, or court while the same are in session, or
within one hundred fifty (150) feet of any hospital or medical facility, which
unreasonably interferes with the working of those institutions, provided
conspicuous signs are displayed in those streets indicating that the area is a
school, court, or hospital area.
      (7)   The erection (including excavation), demolition, alteration, or
repair of any building in a residential or business district other than between
the hours of 7:00 a.m. and 6:00 p.m., except in the case of urgent necessity in
the interest of public safety.
      (8)   The use of any mechanical device operated by compressed air unless
the noise created thereby is effectively muffled and reduced.
      (9)   The shouting and crying of peddlers, barkers, hawkers, and vendors
which disturbs the quiet and peace of the neighborhood.
      (10)   The repeated revving of a vehicle engine to create noise for no
legitimate purpose or the use of a vehicle with loud exhaust system noise.
      (11)   This section is not applicable to noise created by railroad
whistles or horns on engines legally operating on railroad tracks.
(Ord. 2024-03-01, passed 4-11-24) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Whoever violates §
92.09  shall be guilty of a civil violation and shall be fined fifty dollars
($50.00) for the first offense within a one (1) year period, fined one hundred
dollars ($100.00) for the second offense within a one-year period, and fined
five hundred dollars ($500.00) for the third and any subsequent offenses within
a one (1) year period. Each day’s continued violation shall constitute a
separate offense.
   (B)   Any citation for violations for §
92.09  may be appealed to the Crestview Hills Citation Appeals Board.
   (C)   Whoever violates any other provision of this chapter shall be guilty
of a civil violation and shall be fined one hundred dollars ($100.00) for each
offense. Each day’s continued violation shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 2024-03-01, passed 4-11-24; Am. Ord. 2024-08-01, passed 9-12-24)
CHAPTER 93: FIRE PREVENTION, FIREWORKS, AND EXPLOSIVES
Section
   
93.01   Definitions; legality of items
   
93.02   Sale or use prohibited; exception for public display
   
93.03   Consumer fireworks; restrictions on sale
   
93.04   Bond or liability insurance requirement
   
93.05   Exempted sales and uses
   
93.06   Destruction of fireworks
   
93.07   Storage of explosives
   
93.08   Sale of fireworks to minors prohibited; use of fireworks by minors
without adult supervision prohibited
Gas Space Heaters
   
93.15   Definition
   
93.16   Installation
   
93.17   Violations; service shut off
Sprinkler Systems
   
93.25   Security caps for buildings with sprinkler systems
Explosives
   
93.30   Authority and scope
   
93.31   Storage, transportation, and scope
   
93.32   Blasting permits
   
93.33   Manufacture and sale
Burning of Trash and Other Debris
   
93.40   General prohibition
   
93.41   Issuance of permit
   
93.42   Permit fee
   
93.43   Recreational fire restrictions, outdoor fire restrictions and
unrestricted fires
 
   
93.99   Penalty
§ 93.01 DEFINITIONS; LEGALITY OF ITEMS.
   (A)   As used in KRS 227.700 to 227.750, “FIREWORKS” means any composition
or device for the purpose of producing a visible or an audible effect by
combustion, deflagration, or detonation, and which meets the definition of
“consumer fireworks”as defined in division (B) or “display” fireworks as
defined in division (D) and as set forth in the U.S. Department of
Transportation's (DOT) hazardous materials regulations.
      (1)   Exception number 1: Toy pistols, toy canes, toy guns, or other
devices in which paper or plastic caps manufactured in accordance with DOT
regulations, and packed and shipped according to said regulations, are not
considered to be fireworks and shall be allowed to be used and sold at all
times.
      (2)   Exception number 2: Model rockets and model rocket motors designed,
sold, and used for the purpose of propelling recoverable aero models are not
considered to be fireworks.
      (3)   Exception number 3: Propelling or expelling charges consisting of a
mixture of sulfur, charcoal, and saltpeter are not considered as being designed
for producing audible effects.
(KRS 227.700)
   (B)   As used in KRS 227.700 through 227.750, “CONSUMER FIREWORKS” means
fireworks that are suitable for use by the public, designed primarily to
produce visible effects by combustion, and comply with the construction,
chemical composition, and labeling regulations of the U.S. Consumer Product
Safety Commission. The types, sizes, and amount of pyrotechnic contents of
these devices are limited as enumerated in this chapter. Some small devices
designed to produce audible effects are included, such as whistling devices,
ground devices containing fifty (50) milligrams or less of explosive
composition, and aerial devices containing one hundred and thirty (130)
milligrams or less of explosive composition. “CONSUMER FIREWORKS” are further
defined by the Consumer Product Safety Commission in CPSC, 16 CPSC, 16 C.F.R.
Pts 1500 and 1507, are classified as division 1.4 explosives by the U.S.
Department of Transportation and include the following:
      (1)   Ground and hand-held sparkling devices.
         (a)   Dipped stick-sparkler or wire sparkler. These devices consist a
metal wire or wood dowel that has been coated with pyrotechnic composition.
Upon ignition of the tip of the device, a shower of sparks is produced.
Sparklers may contain up to one hundred (100) grams of pyrotechnic composition
per item. Those devices containing any perchlorate or chlorate salts may not
exceed five (5) grams of pyrotechnic composition per item. Wire sparklers which
contain no magnesium and which contain less than one hundred (100) grams of
composition per item are not included in this category, in accordance with DOT
regulations.
         (b)   Cylindrical fountain. Cylindrical tube containing not more than
seventy-five (75) grams of pyrotechnic composition. Upon ignition, a shower of
colored sparks, and sometimes a whistling effect or smoke, is produced. This
device may be provided with a spike for insertion into the ground (spike
fountain), a wood or plastic base for placing on the ground (base fountain), or
a wood or cardboard handle, if intended to be hand-held (handle fountain). When
more than one (1) tube is mounted on a common base, total pyrotechnic
composition may not exceed two hundred (200) grams, or five hundred (500) grams
if the tubes are separated from each other on the base by a distance of at
least one half (1/2) inch.
         (c)   Cone fountain. Cardboard or heavy paper cone containing up to
fifty (50) grams of pyrotechnic composition. The effect is the same as that of
a cylindrical fountain. When more than one cone is mounted on a common base,
the total pyrotechnic composition may not exceed two hundred (200) grams, or
five hundred (500) grams of the tubes are separated from each other on the base
by a distance of at least one half (1/2) inch.
         (d)   Illuminating torch. Cylindrical tube containing up to one
hundred (100) grams of pyrotechnic composition. Upon ignition, colored fire is
produced. May be spike, base, or hand-held. When more than one tube is mounted
on a common base, the total pyrotechnic composition may not exceed two hundred
(200) grams, or five hundred (500) grams if the tubes are separated from each
other on the base by a distance of at least one half (1/2) inch.
         (e)   Wheel. A device attached to a post or tree by means of a nail or
string. A wheel may have one or more drivers, each of which may contain not
more than sixty (60) grams of pyrotechnic composition. No wheel contain more
than two hundred (200) grams total pyrotechnic composition. Upon ignition, the
wheel revolves, producing a shower of color and sparks and, sometimes, a
whistling effect.
         (f)   Ground spinner. Small device containing not more than twenty
(20) grams of pyrotechnic composition, similar in operation to a wheel but
intended to be placed on the ground and ignited. A shower of sparks and color
is produced by the rapidly spinning device.
         (g)   Flitter sparkler. Narrow paper tube attached to a stick or wire
and filled with not more than one hundred (100) grams of pyrotechnic
composition that produces color and sparks upon ignition. The paper at one end
of the tube is ignited to make the device function.
         (h)   Toy smoke device. Small plastic or paper item containing not
more than one hundred (100) grams of pyrotechnic composition that, upon
ignition, produces white or colored smoke as the primary effect.
      (2)   Aerial devices.
         (a)   Sky rockets and bottle rockets. Cylindrical tube containing not
more than twenty (20) grams of pyrotechnic composition. Sky rockets contain a
wooden stick for guidance and stability and rise into the air upon ignition. A
burst of color or noise or both is produced at the height of flight.
         (b)   Missile-type rocket. A device similar to a sky rocket in size,
composition, and effect that uses fins rather than a stick for guidance and
stability.
         (c)   Helicopter, aerial spinner. A tube containing up to twenty (20)
grams of pyrotechnic composition. A propeller or blade is attached, which, upon
ignition, lifts the rapidly spinning device into the air. A visible or audible
effect is produced at the height of flight.
         (d)   Roman candles. Heavy paper or cardboard tube containing up to
twenty (20) grams of pyrotechnic composition. Upon ignition, up to ten (10)
stars (pellets of pressed pyrotechnic composition that burn with bright color)
are individually expelled at several second intervals.
         (e)   Mine, shell. Heavy cardboard or paper tube usually attached to a
wood or plastic base and containing up to 60 grams of total chemical
composition (lift charge, burst charge, and visible or audible effect
composition). Upon ignition, “stars,” components producing reports containing
up to one hundred and thirty (130) milligrams of explosive composition per
report, or other devices are propelled into the air. The term “mine” refers to
a device with no internal components containing a bursting charge, and the term
“shell” refers to a device that propels a component that subsequently bursts
open in the air. A mine or shell device may contain more than one tube provided
the tubes fire in sequence upon ignition of one (1) external fuse. The term
“cake” refers to a dense-packed collection of mine or shell tubes. Total
chemical composition including lift charges of any multiple tube devices may
not exceed two hundred (200) grams. The maximum quantity of lift charge in any
one tube of a mine or shell device shall not exceed twenty (20) grams, and the
maximum quality of break or bursting charge in any component shall not exceed
twenty-five (25%) of the total weight of chemical composition in the component.
         (f)   Aerial shell kit, reloadable tube. A package kit containing a
cardboard, high-density polyethylene (HDPE), or equivalent launching tube with
multiple- shot aerial shells. Each aerial shell is limited to a maximum of
sixty (60) grams of total chemical composition (lift charge, bust charge, and
visible or audible effect composition), and the maximum diameter of each shell
shall not exceed one and three fourths (1 3/4) inches. In addition, the maximum
quantity of lift charge in any shell shall not exceed twenty (20) grams, and
the maximum quantity of break or bursting charge in any shell shall not exceed
twenty-five percent (25%) of the total weight of chemical composition in the
shell. The total chemical composition of all the shells in the kit, including
lift charge, shall not exceed four hundred (400) grams. The user lower a shell
into the launching tube, at the time of firing, with the fusing extending out
of the top of the tube. After the firing, the tube is then reloaded with
another shell for the next firing. All launching tubes shall be capable of
firing twice the number of shells in the kit without failure of the tube. Each
package of multiple-shot aerial shells must comply with all warning label
requirements of the Consumer Product Safety Commission.
      (3)   Audible ground devices.
         (a)   Firecrackers, salutes. Small paper-wrapped or cardboard tube
containing not more than fifty (50) milligrams of pyrotechnic composition.
Those used in aerial devices may contain not more than one hundred and thirty
(130) milligrams of explosive composition per report. Upon ignition, noise and
a flash of light is produced.
         (b)   Chaser. Small paper or cardboard tube that travels along the
ground upon ignition. A whistling effect, or other noise, is often produced.
The explosive composition used to create the noise may not exceed fifty (50)
milligrams.
(KRS 227.702)
   (C)   Items listed below are classified as “NOVELTIES” and “TRICK
NOISEMAKERS” and are not classified as consumer fireworks by the U.S.
Department of Transportation and their transportation, storage, retail sale,
possession, sale, and use shall be allowed throughout the state at all times.
      (1)   Snake, glow worm. Pressed pellet of pyrotechnic composition that
produces a large, snake-like ash upon burning. The ash expands in length as the
pellet burns. These devices may not contain mercuric thiocyanate.
      (2)   Smoke device. Tube or sphere containing pyrotechnic composition
that, upon ignition, produces white or colored smoke as the primary effect.
      (3)   Wire sparkler. Wire coated with pyrotechnic composition that
produces a shower of sparks upon ignition. These items may not contain
magnesium and must not exceed one hundred (100) grams of composition per item.
Devices containing any chlorate or perchlorate salts may not exceed five (5)
grams of composition per item.
      (4)   Trick noisemaker. Item that produces a small report intended to
surprise the user. These devices include:
         (a)   Party popper. Small plastic or paper item containing not more
than sixteen (16) milligrams of explosive composition that is friction
sensitive. A string protruding from the device is pulled to ignite it,
expelling paper streamers and producing a small report.
         (b)   Booby trap. Small tube with string protruding from both ends,
similar to a party popper in design. The ends of the string are pulled to
ignite the friction sensitive composition, producing a small report.
         (c)   Snapper. Small, paper-wrapped item containing a minute quantity
of explosive composition coated on small bits of sand. When dropped, the device
explodes producing a small report.
         (d)   Trick match. Kitchen or book match that has been coated with a
small quantity of explosive or pyrotechnic composition. Upon ignition of the
match a small report or a shower of sparks is produced.
         (e)   Cigarette load. Small wooden peg that has been coated with a
small quantity of explosive composition. Upon ignition of a cigarette
containing one (1) of the pegs, a small report is produced.
         (f)   Auto burglar alarm. Tube which contains pyrotechnic composition
that produces a loud whistle or smoke, or both, when ignited. A small quantity
of explosive, not exceeding fifty (50) milligrams may also be used to produce a
small report. A squib is used to ignite the device.
(KRS 227.704)
   (D)   As used in KRS 227.700 through 227.750, “DISPLAY FIREWORKS” means
pyrotechnic devices or large fireworks designed primarily to produce visible or
audible effects by combustion, deflagration or detonation. This term includes,
but is not limited to, firecrackers containing more than two (2) grains (one
hundred and thirty (130) milligrams) of explosive composition, aerial shells
containing more than forty (40) grams of pyrotechnic composition, and other
display pieces which exceed the limits for classification as consumer
fireworks. Display fireworks are defined by the Consumer Product Safety
Commission in CPSC, 16 C.F.R. Pts. 1500 and 1507, and are classified as class B
explosives by the U.S. Department of Transportation.
(KRS 227.706)
   (E)   Legality of items.
      (1)    Items described in division (B)(1) above are legal for retail sale
provided all applicable federal and state requirements with respect thereto are
met.
      (2)   Items described in divisions (B)(2), (B)(3), and (D) are not legal
for retail sale but are legal under permits granted pursuant to this chapter
for the purposes specified in this chapter for public displays and may be sold
at wholesale as provided in this chapter.
      (3)   Items described in division (C) are legal for retail sale provided
all applicable federal and state requirements with respect thereto are met.
(KRS 227.708)
§ 93.02 SALE OR USE PROHIBITED; EXCEPTION FOR PUBLIC DISPLAY.
   No person, firm, co-partnership or corporation shall offer for sale, expose
for sale, sell at retail, keep with intent to sell, possess, use, or explode,
any display fireworks, except as follows:
   (A)   (1)   The Chief of the Fire Department or other authorized city
official may grant permits for supervised public displays of fireworks by the
city, fair associations, amusement parks, and other organizations or groups of
individuals.
      (2)   Every display shall be handled by a competent display operator to
be approved by the public official by whom the permit is granted, and shall be
of such character, and so located, discharged or fired as in the opinion of the
official, after proper inspection, to not be hazardous to property or endanger
any person.
      (3)   “COMPETENT DISPLAY OPERATOR” shall be defined as the person with
overall responsibility for the operation and safety of a fireworks display. The
competent display operator shall have a Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms,
and Explosives (ATF) License and have participated as an assistant in firing at
least five (5) public displays. A “competent display operator” is also an
employee possessor. A permit under division (1) shall be issued only to a
competent display operator holding an ATF license.
      (4)   At least one competent display operator shall be on site during
display set- up and firing. This complement display operator shall maintain a
copy of the permit application, as signed by the local authority having
jurisdiction as identified in this section, on site and at all times the
display is in place, and shall be presented on demand of the State Fire Marshal
or local Fire Chief. All public displays that require issuance of a permit
shall be conducted in accordance with the provisions of National Fire
Protection Association (NEPA) 1123 Code for Fireworks Display (adopted
edition).
      (5)   Permits shall be filed with the office of the State Fire Marshal at
least fifteen (15) days in advance of the date of the display. After this
privilege shall have been granted, sales, possession, use and distribution of
fireworks for the display shall be lawful for that purpose only. No permit
granted under this subsection shall be transferable. For the purpose of this
section, “public display of fireworks” shall include the use of pyrotechnic
devices or pyrotechnic materials before a proximate audience, whether indoors
or outdoors.
      (6)   Any person remaining within the display area shall be identified as
licensed by the ATF, or an employee thereof, or be an assistant in training to
become a competent display operator. All persons remaining within the display
area shall be at least eighteen (18) years of age.
      (7)   The Commissioner of the Department of Housing, Buildings and
Construction with recommendation from the State Fire Marshal shall promulgate
administrative regulations in accordance with KRS Chapter 13A to administer the
provisions of this division. The regulations shall address the process by which
permits are issued and any other procedures that are reasonably necessary to
effectuate this division.
   (B)   The sale, at wholesale, of any display fireworks for permitted
displays by any resident manufacturer, wholesaler, dealer, or jobber, in
accordance with regulations of the U.S. Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and
Firearms, and Explosives if the sale is to a person holding a display permit as
outlined in subsection (A) of this section. The permit holder shall present the
permit along with other verifiable identification at the time of sale.
   (C)   The sale of display fireworks in accordance with a license issued by
the United States Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives.
   (D)   The sale, and use in emergency situations, of pyrotechnic signaling
devices and distress signals for marine, aviation, and highway use.
   (E)   The use of fuses and railway torpedoes by railroads.
   (F)   The sale and use of blank cartridges for use in a show or theater or
for signal or ceremonial purpose in athletics or sports.
   (G)   The use of any pyrotechnic device by military organizations.
   (H)   The use of fireworks for agricultural purposes under the direct
supervision of the U.S. Department of the Interior or any equivalent or local
agency.
   (I)   Nothing in this section shall prohibit a person, firm, co-partnership,
non-profit, or corporation from offering for sale, exposing for sale, selling
at retail, keeping with intent to sell, possessing or using consumer fireworks
as defined in KRS 227.702 as permitted pursuant to KRS 227.715.
(KRS 227.710) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.03 CONSUMER FIREWORKS; RESTRICTIONS ON SALE.
   (A)   Except as provided in §
93.02, the consumer fireworks described in KRS 227.702 may be offered for sale,
sold at retail, or kept with the intent to sell, only if the requirements of
this section are met.
   (B)   Any person firm, co-partnership, non-profit, or business intending to
sell consumer fireworks described in KRS 227.702(1) shall register annually
with the State Fire Marshal's office in accordance with KRS 227.715, and
display its registration certificate in a conspicuous location at the site.
   (C)   Each site at which fireworks are offered for sale shall comply with
all applicable provisions of the International Building Code, with Kentucky
Amendments (adopted edition), and NFPA 1124 (National Fire Protection
Association) Code for the Manufacture, Transportation, Storage, and Retail
Sales of Fireworks and Pyrotechnic Articles (adopted addition);
   (D)   No person or business shall give, offer for sale, or sell any consumer
fireworks listed in §
93.01(B) to any person under 18 years of age.
   (E)   No person under 18 years of age may be employed by a fireworks
distribution facility, or manufacturing facility. No person under 18 years of
age shall sell consumer fireworks at a consumer fireworks retail sales facility
registered under KRS 227.715 unless the individual is supervised by a parent or
guardian.
(KRS 227.715 (7) through (9)) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.04 BOND OR LIABILITY INSURANCE REQUIREMENT.
   No permit shall be issued under §
93.02 unless the applicant shall give bond or evidence of liability insurance
deemed adequate by the official to whom application for the permit is made, in
a sum not less than ten thousand dollars ($10,000). However, the Fire Chief or
State Fire Marshal may require a larger amount if in their judgment the
situation requires it, conditioned for the payment of all damages which may be
caused thereby either to a person or to property by reason of the permitted
display, and arising from any acts of the licensee, his agents, employees or
subcontractors.
(KRS 227.720) Penalty, see §
93.99(B)
§ 93.05 EXEMPTED SALES AND USES.
   Nothing in this chapter shall prevent the retail sale and use of explosives
or signaling flares used in the course of ordinary business or industry, or
gold star producing sparklers, which contain no magnesium or chlorate, toy
snakes which contain no mercury, smoke novelties and party novelties, which
contain less than twenty-five hundredths of a grain of explosive mixture, or
shells or cartridges, used as ammunition in firearms, or blank cartridges for a
show or theatre, or for signal or ceremonial purposes in athletics or sports,
or for use by military organizations, or the sale of any kind of fireworks
provided the same are to be shipped by the seller directly out of the state.
(KRS 227.730)
________________
Statutory reference:
   Approval by State Fire Marshal required prior to sale or use, see KRS
272.740
§ 93.06 DESTRUCTION OF FIREWORKS.
   (A)   The State Fire Marshal, or any fire department having jurisdiction
which has been deputized to act on behalf of the state fire marshal, shall
cause to be removed at the expense of the owner all stocks of fireworks which
are stored and held in violation of this chapter. After a period of sixty (60)
days, the seized fireworks may be offered for sale by closed bid to a properly
certified fireworks wholesaler.
   (B)   After a period of sixty (60) days, the seized fireworks may be offered
for sale by closed bid to a properly certified manufacturer, distributor, or
wholesaler. All seized fireworks or explosives with a Class 1.3G or "Display"
designation shall require the notification of the United States Bureau of
Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives. The state fire marshal shall provide
the owner or possessor a receipt containing the complete inventory of any
fireworks seized within five (5) business days of the seizure.
   (C)   Before any seized fireworks may be disposed of:
      (1)   If the owner of the seized fireworks is known to the state fire
marshal, the state fire marshal shall give notice by registered mail or
personal service to the owner of the state fire marshal's intention to dispose
of the fireworks. The notice shall inform the owner of the state fire marshal's
intent. The state fire marshal shall conduct an administrative hearing in
accordance with KRS Chapter 13B concerning the disposal of fireworks; or
      (2)   If the identity of the owner of any seized fireworks is not known
to the state fire marshal, the state fire marshal shall cause to be published,
in a newspaper of general circulation in the county in which the seizure was
made, notice of the seizure, and of the State Fire Marshal's intention to
dispose of the fireworks. The notice shall be published once each week for
three consecutive weeks. If no person claims ownership of the fireworks within
ten days of the date of the last publication, the state fire marshal may
proceed with disposal of the fireworks. If the owner does claim the fireworks
within ten (10) days of the date of the last publication, a hearing as set out
in division (A) shall be held.
   (D)   Nothing in KRS 227.700 to 227.750 shall restrict a local government
from enacting ordinances that affect the sale or use of fireworks within its
jurisdiction.
(KRS 227.750)
§ 93.07 STORAGE OF EXPLOSIVES.
   It shall be unlawful to store at any time within the city a quantity of
gunpowder or other similar explosive weighing in excess of 100 pounds without
the express authorization of the legislative body.
Penalty, see §
93.99 (A)
§ 93.08 SALE OF FIREWORKS TO MINORS PROHIBITED; USE OF FIREWORKS BY MINORS
WITHOUT ADULT SUPERVISION PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person shall sell any fireworks as defined in KRS 227.700 or common
fireworks as defined in KRS 227.702 or novelties and trick noisemakers as
defined in KRS 227.704, to a minor within the city.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any minor to use fireworks as defined in KRS
227.700, common fireworks as defined in KRS 227.702(1) or novelties and trick
noisemakers as defined in KRS 227.704 without adult supervision.
(Ord. 1990-8-1, passed 9-13-90) Penalty, see §
93.99(C)
GAS SPACE HEATERS
§ 93.15 DEFINITIONS.
   For purposes of this subchapter, "APPROVED," as applied to a material,
device, or mode of construction, means materials, devices, or equipment listed
by Underwriters' Laboratories, Inc., The Testing Laboratory of the American Gas
Association, Forest Products Laboratory, or other recognized testing authority
and approved by the State Fire Marshal.
(Ord. 1956-1, passed 7-3-56)
§ 93.16 INSTALLATION.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to sell, offer for sale, or display for sale in
the city any gas heater which is not an approved vented gas space heater,
equipped with an approved gas pressure regulator.
   (B)   It shall also be unlawful to install in the city any gas space heater
which is not an approved vented gas space heater equipped with an approved gas
pressure regulator without connecting such gas space heater to an approved flue
in an approved manner.
   (C)   Existing gas space heaters may be reinstalled, provided they are
connected to an approved flue in an approved manner and provided they are
approved as nonhazardous.
(Ord. 1956-1, passed 7-3-56) Penalty, see §
93.99 (A)
§ 93.17 VIOLATIONS; SERVICE SHUT OFF.
   (A)   Whenever it shall appear, on inspection, that gas equipment used for
space heating is discharging dangerous fumes, or is unsafe for use, and when,
in the opinion of the Fire Inspector or Building Inspector, immediate action is
necessary, he shall be authorized to shut off the supply of gas to the
equipment by turning off the valve of cock to the equipment, or, when required,
by capping or plugging gas lines to the equipment or other mechanical means to
accomplish shut off of gas to the equipment and attaching thereto a tag, and
seal out of service so as to make inoperative or to take any necessary steps in
the interest of the public safety, with or without notice to the owners of the
property or equipment involved.
   (B)   Whenever it shall appear, on inspection, that gas equipment used for
space heating is in violation of any of the requirements of any section of this
subchapter, or of any law or ordinance relating to the same subject matter, an
order shall be issued to the owner or the person in control of the gas
equipment to correct same. After such order and the failure of the owner or
person in control of such gas equipment to correct the violation within the
specified time in the order, the Fire Inspector or Building Inspector shall be
authorized to shut off the supply of gas to the gas equipment in the manner
herein provided.
   (C)   Any person, firm, or corporation who shall violate any section of this
subchapter, or any person who shall remove the tag, seal, cap, plug, or other
mechanism or sealing device, or uses or permits to be used any gas equipment
which use has been ordered discontinued, as set forth herein, shall be subject
to the penalties provided by this chapter.
(Ord. 1956-1, passed 7-3-56) Penalty, see §
93.99 (A)
SPRINKLER SYSTEMS
§ 93.25 SECURITY CAPS FOR BUILDINGS WITH SPRINKLER SYSTEMS.
   (A)   Any building located in the city which is protected by an automatic
sprinkler system or standpipe system and which the fire department connection
to such system is exposed to the public, shall have installed thereon a fire
department connection security cap. The fire department security cap shall be
of a type approved by the fire chief of the city.
   (B)   The requirements of this section shall not apply to owner-occupied
single or double family dwellings.
   (C)   All existing buildings subject to this section shall comply with this
section within six months from its effective date. All newly constructed
buildings, which are not yet occupied and those that may still be under
construction, which are subject to this section shall comply with the
requirements of this section immediately.
(Ord. 2003-5-2, passed 6-11-03)
EXPLOSIVES
§ 93.30 AUTHORITY AND SCOPE.
   (A)   This subchapter shall apply to the manufacture, possession, storage,
sale, transportation, and use of explosives and blasting agents.
   (B)   This subchapter shall not apply to:
      (1)   Explosives or blasting agents while in the course of transportation
via railroad, water, highway, or air when the explosives or blasting agents are
moving under the jurisdiction of, and in conformity with, regulations adopted
by and federal or state department or agency.
      (2)   The transportation and use of explosives or blasting agents in the
normal and emergency operation of state or federal agencies nor to municipal
fire and police departments, providing they are acting in their official
capacity and in the proper performance of their duties.
      (3)   Small arms ammunition and components therefor, which are subject to
the Gun Control Act of 1968 (Title 18, Chapter 44, U.S. Code) and regulations
promulgated thereunder.
      (4)   Blasting standards KRS 351.330 and regulations 805 KAR 4:010
through 4:060.
      (5)   Explosives or blasting agents being used on the site of federal or
state projects.
(Ord. 1976-9-4, passed 9-8-76)
§ 93.31 STORAGE, TRANSPORTATION, AND USE.
   All activities within the scope of this subchapter shall conform to the
regulations of the Kentucky Department of Mines and Minerals 805 KAR 4:070
through 4:080 and 805 KAR 4:090 through 4:145 (E&B R900 through 914).
(Ord. 1976-9-4, passed 9-8-76) Penalty, see §
93.99 (D)
§ 93.32 BLASTING PERMITS.
   (A)   No person or corporation shall conduct a blasting operation within the
city without first obtaining a permit from the City Building Inspector.
   (B)   The fee for a blasting permit or permit renewal shall be twenty-five
dollars ($25).
   (C)   No person or corporation shall be issued a permit to blast on public
property unless the person to be in charge of the blasting holds a valid
Kentucky Blasters License.
   (D)   No person or corporation shall be issued a permit to blast on private
property with more than five (5) pounds of explosives unless the person in
charge of the blasting holds a valid Kentucky Blasters License.
   (E)   The blasting permits shall specify the location of the blasting to be
permitted.
   (F)   In the event that a project is not completed, blasting permits must be
renewed annually upon the applicant's payment of the renewal fee.
   (G)   A permit allowing blasting shall be issued upon application but, on
public property, shall not become valid until seven (7) days after its
issuance.
   (H)   If unanticipated blasting is required, the permit may become valid as
soon as the City Building Inspector notifies all required agencies.
   (I)   On any contract issued by an agency of the city, blasting permits
shall be issued by the City Building Inspector unless otherwise specified in
the contract.
   (J)   False statements, made for the purpose of obtaining a permit, shall
render the permit null and void from the time of issue.
   (K)   Copies of the blasting permit shall be distributed by the City
Building Inspector to the following required agencies: Police and Municipal
Engineer.
(Ord. 1976-9-4, passed 9-8-76) Penalty, see §
93.99 (D)
§ 93.33 MANUFACTURE AND SALE.
   (A)   No person or corporation shall operate a business establishment where
explosives are maintained for the sale, or manufacture for sale, of explosives
in the city without first obtaining a permit from the City Building Inspector.
   (B)   The fee for this permit is forty dollars ($40).
(Ord. 1976-9-4, passed 9-8-76) Penalty, see §
93.99 (D)
BURNING OF TRASH AND OTHER DEBRIS
§ 93.40 GENERAL PROHIBITION.
   It shall be unlawful for any owner or occupant of land within the corporate
limits of the city to burn the trash and other debris thereon or within the
city limits.
(Ord. 1984-6-1, passed 7-12-84) Penalty, see §
93.99 (E)
§ 93.41 ISSUANCE OF PERMIT.
   (A)   No person shall build, make or maintain a bonfire or other similar
fire or burning or assist in so doing, within the limits of the city, unless
the fire is authorized under §
93.41, or a permit therefore has been first issued under the provisions of §
93.41 which permit has not been revoked.
   (B)   No person shall burn any wood, plastic, cardboard, grass, leaves,
brush, trees, place paper or other combustible material or assist in so doing,
within the limits of the city, except in an improved fireplace or furnace
within an enclosed building, unless the fire is authorized under §
93.41 or a permit therefore has been first issued under the provisions of §
93.41, which permit has not been revoked.
(Ord. 84-6-1, passed 7-12-84; Am. Ord. 2009-12-1, passed 1-14-10) Penalty, see
§
93.99 (E)
§ 93.42 PERMIT FEE.
   There shall be no cost for the issuance of a burning permit.
(Ord. 84-6-1, passed 7-12-84)
§ 93.43 RECREATIONAL FIRE RESTRICTIONS, OUTDOOR FIRE RESTRICTIONS AND
UNRESTRICTED FIRES.
   (A)   Recreational Fire Restrictions.
      (1)   It is the intent of the City of Crestview Hills, Kentucky that all
citizens, property owners and renters shall have the opportunity to have
recreational fires at single and multi-family dwellings provided that such
recreational fires are in compliance with the requirements and restrictions
relating to recreational fires. It is further the intent of the City of
Crestview Hills, Kentucky that the Police Department, the Fire Department and
any Code Enforcement Officer shall enforce these requirements/restrictions so
as to insure that such recreational fires do not become a public nuisance or
compromise public safety.
      (2)   A recreational fire is a fire that meets the requirements/
restrictions laid out in this section of the City of Crestview Hill's
ordinances. If the fire does not meet the requirements and restrictions of a
recreational fire, outdoor cooking fire, or unrestricted fires, then it is
deemed a bonfire and subject to permit requirements and restrictions under §
93.41.
      (3)   Portable fire pits, chimaeras, patio hearths, fire tables and other
similar devices shall be elevated from the ground and shall be fabricated from
steel, concrete, clay, or similar materials. Permanent fire pits shall be dug
into the ground and shall comply with the provisions of this section governing
such pits.
      (4)   Recreational Fire Requirements and Restrictions.
         (a)   The residential fire must be fueled by seasoned (i.e. not green)
firewood, charcoal, natural gas, propane, or other clean burning fuel, with
emissions equal or less than that created by seasoned firewood and all devices
must be based upon a non-combustible surface, or a surface protected by a fire
retardant mat designed specifically for this purpose.
         (b)   Material used to make a recreational fire cannot include
construction materials, plastics, trash or rubbish.
         (c)   The recreational fire's total area (i.e. fuel area, firebox, or
other center area of a fire pit where fuel is placed) can be no more than three
(3) feet in diameter, height, or width: and no higher than three (3) feet,
measured from the location upon which the wood or other fuel source is placed
upon the top of the wood or other fuel source. No burning firewood or other
burning fire fueling material shall extend outside the fire pit.
         (d)   Recreational fires shall not be located within twenty-five (25)
ft. of a structure or combustible material unless contained in an approved
manner.
         (e)   The means for extinguishing any fire must be kept immediately
available at all times when a recreational fire is burning.
         (f)   No recreational fire shall be started or allowed to continue
burning when the wind directed or wind speed will cause embers or other burning
material to be carried onto any building or combustible material; nor any time
that wind direction will carry smoke into the open windows of any building.
Smoke from any recreational fire shall not create a nuisance for neighboring
properties and fires shall be completely extinguished when a police officer,
fire department member, or Code Enforcement Officer determines a nuisance is
present or the fire otherwise compromise public safety.
         (g)   If a permanent fire pit is used, the construction and use of the
permanent fire pit shall, in addition to the above requirement, comply with the
following additional requirements:
            1.   The diameter, width, and height of the pit opening or base
upon which the fuel material is placed shall not exceed three (3) feet:
            2.   The depth of the pit shall be at least one (1) foot:
            3.   The stop of the rim of the pit shall be lined with rock,
concrete brick, steel, or other non-combustible material designed and of a
sufficient width to stop the spread of fire.
   (B)   Outdoor Cooking Fire Restrictions. Outdoor cooking over a fire
contained in a device or structure designed for such use is permitted but
subject to the following requirements/restrictions:
      (1)   Material used to make a cooking fire cannot include construction
materials, plastics, trash or rubbish.
      (2)   All cooking devices must be in good working condition to prevent
the possible spread of the fire.
      (3)   For all multi-family dwellings the use and/or storage of any
portable cooking device, except listed electric powered cooking devices,
including any portable fireplaces is strictly prohibited on any balcony or
under any overhanging portion or within ten (10) feet of any structure. The
definition of a multi-family dwelling shall mean a single structure containing
three (3) or more dwelling units, regardless of whether such units are rented
or owned as a condominium or other form of ownership.
      (4)   No cooking fire shall be started or allowed to continue burning
when the wind direction or wind speed will cause embers or other burning
material to be carried onto any building or combustible material; nor any time
that wind direction will carry smoke into the open windows of any building.
Smoke from any cooking fire shall not create a nuisance for neighboring
properties and fires shall be completely extinguished when a police officer,
Fire Department member, or Code Enforcement Officer determines a nuisance is
present or the fire otherwise compromises public safety.
      (5)   A fire shall be deemed a recreational fire and not a cooking fire
and thus subject to the requirements and restrictions of recreational fires,
if, in the opinion and judgment of a member of the Police Department, Fire
Department or Code Enforcement Officer, the primary use of the fire is
recreational in nature and not for cooking.
   (C)   Unrestricted Fires.
      (1)   The following devices that involve an open fire or flame may be
used without restrictions as long as they are used in a safe manner and the use
follows the recommended manufacturer's guidelines: The burning and/or use of:
lighters, matches, candles, lanterns, lamps, grills, insect repellant torches,
tiki type torches, cigarettes, cigars, and/or braziers, or any other similar
devices.
      (2)   Fires that are lit and burned in an approved furnace or fireplace
within an enclosed building are unrestricted and permitted.
   (D)   Nuisance Orders. Members of the Police Department, Fire Department,
and any Code Enforcement Officer are authorized and shall issue orders to any
individual or property owner to immediately extinguish any fire, however
classified, including, without limitation, a recreational fire, cooking fire,
unrestricted fire, or bonfire deemed to be a nuisance or that otherwise
compromises public safety. Members of the Police Department of the Fire Chief,
any Assistant Fire Chief, or any designee of the Fire Chief, in the event of a
second or subsequent call concerning a recreational fire at a particular
address or types of fires specified in the orders or permitting additional
fires or types of fires specified in the orders with such conditions or
restrictions deemed appropriate, for either an indefinite period of time or for
a specific period of time specified in the order. Appeal of such orders may be
had to the Fire Chief by delivering notice of that appeal to the Fire Chief,
who may uphold the order, rescind the order, or modify the order as deemed
appropriate in the Fire Chief’s reasonable judgment. Provided a citation has
been issued an additional appeal may be submitted to the Code Enforcement
Board, who may uphold the order, rescind the order, or modify the order. No
person shall violate any order issued under this section.
   (E)   Penalty. The penalties for any violation of this section shall be as
set forth in §
93.99. In addition to the foregoing penalties, any person who fails to maintain
a fire in accordance with the applicable City of Crestview Hills Code of
Ordinances or negligently allows such a fire to burn out of control shall pay
any and all costs incurred by the City of Crestview Hills or any other
municipality responding under mutual-aid for any fire, police ambulance or
other related services provided as a result of the party's failure to comply
with this section.
(Ord. 2009-12-1, passed 1-14-10)
§ 93.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter for which no
penalty is otherwise provided, shall be guilty of a violation and shall be
fined not more than one hundred dollars ($100).
   (B)   Any person violating the provisions of §§
93.02 or
93.04, the regulations issued thereunder or any order issued thereunder, or who
knowingly induces another, directly or indirectly, to violate the provisions of
those sections, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be fined not more
than one thousand dollars ($1,000), or imprisoned for not more than thirty (30)
days, or both.
(KRS 227.990 (4))
   (C)   Any person convicted of violating the provisions of §
93.07 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be fined an amount not to
exceed five hundred dollars ($500) or imprisoned in the county jail for a term
not to exceed thirty (30) days, or both. The parents of any child found
violating §
93.07 shall be subject to a fine in an amount not to exceed one hundred dollars
($100).
(Ord. 1991-8-1, passed 9-13-90)
   (D)   Any building owner violating the provisions of §
93.25 shall be subject to a fine of three hundred dollars ($300.00). Each day
that such violation shall continue after notification shall be considered a
separate violation at three hundred dollars ($300.00) per day.
(Ord. 2003-5-2, passed 6-11-03)
   (E)   Any person or corporation violating the provisions of §§
93.30 through
93.33 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be fined not less than one
hundred dollars ($100) nor more than five hundred dollars ($500), or shall be
imprisoned up to, but no more than six (6) months, or both.
(Ord. 1976-9-4, passed 9-8-76)
   (F)   Violations of §§
93.40 through
93.42 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be punishable by a fine of not
less than fifty dollars ($50) nor more than five hundred dollars ($500).
(Ord. 84-6-1, passed 7-12-84)
CHAPTER 94: LITTERING
§ 94.01 THROWING LITTER FROM VEHICLE.
   No person while a driver or passenger in a vehicle shall throw or deposit
litter upon any street or other public place within the city or upon private
property.
Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.02 TRACKING FOREIGN MATTER ON STREETS.
   (A)   No person shall drive or move any vehicle or truck within the city,
the wheels or tires of which carry onto or deposit in any street, alley, or
other public place, mud, dirt, sticky substances, litter, or foreign matter of
any kind.
   (B)   No person, firm, corporation, or agent thereof shall deposit or cause
or permit to be deposited upon the streets of the city any mud, dirt, litter,
trash, or other debris. No person, firm, corporation, or agent thereof shall
operate a motor vehicle in such a manner that mud, dirt, litter, trash or other
debris is left upon any streets which my constitute a hazard to the life, limb,
or property of any person traveling upon those streets.
      (1)   The deposit of sand, salt, or other chemicals on ice or snow on
public streets by duly-authorized emergency crews to make the streets safe for
travel shall not be deemed a violation of this section.
      (2)   All of the owners of any interest in any real estate in the city
from which any mud, dirt, litter, trash, or other debris has been removed and
deposited upon any city street shall be jointly and severally liable and
obligated to the city for all reasonable costs and expenses incurred by, and
the reasonable value of all labor and equipment provided by, the city in the
removal thereof. The city shall have a lien upon the entire lot or parcel of
real estate from which the mud, dirt, litter, or debris was removed to secure
the aforedescribed obligation and liability, and all costs, fees, and expenses
incurred by the city in the collection thereof, including, but not limited to,
reasonable attorney fees. The lien may be enforced by civil actions for the
foreclosure thereof.
      (3)   The City Building Inspector is authorized to withdraw all building
permits where debris is identifiably deposited in a location where new
construction is being performed.
(Am. Ord. 1988-1-1, passed 2-11-88) Penalty, see §
94.99
________________
Cross-reference:
   Materials on streets and sidewalks, see §
91.32
§ 94.03 HAULING LOOSE MATERIAL.
   Every person hauling or causing to be hauled dirt, sand, gravel, cement,
fill dirt, or loose material of any kind in or upon any street, alley,
sidewalk, or other public place shall haul it, or cause it to be hauled in
vehicles provided with tight boxes or beds so constructed or loaded as to
prevent any of the contents from falling or being thrown, blown, or deposited
upon any street, alley, sidewalk, or other public place. Any materials which
fall from, or which are thrown, blown, or deposited from any vehicle upon any
street, alley, sidewalk, or other public place, shall be removed immediately by
the person in charge of the vehicle.
Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.04 SWEEPING LITTER INTO GUTTERS.
   No person shall sweep into or deposit in any gutter, street, or other public
place within the city the accumulation of litter from any building or lot or
from any public or private sidewalk or driveway. Persons owning or occupying
property shall keep the sidewalk in front of their premises free of litter.
Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.05 MERCHANTS TO KEEP SIDEWALKS FREE OF LITTER.
   No person owning or occupying a place of business shall sweep into or
deposit in any gutter, street, or other public place within the city the
accumulation of litter from any building or lot or from any public or private
sidewalk. Persons owning or occupying places of business within the city shall
keep the sidewalk in front of their business premises free of litter.
Penalty, see §
94.99
_____________
Cross-reference:
   Materials on streets and sidewalks, see §
91.32
§ 94.06 POSTING NOTICES.
   No person shall post or affix any notice, poster, or other paper or device
which is calculated to attract the attention of the public, to any lamp post,
public utility pole, or shade tree, or upon any public structure or building,
except as may be authorized by law.
Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.07 LITTER ON PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   (A)   No person shall throw or deposit litter on any occupied private
property within the city, whether owned by that person or not, except that the
owner or person in control of the private property may maintain authorized
private receptacles for collection in such a manner that litter will be
prevented from being carried or deposited by the elements upon streets,
sidewalks, or other public places, or upon any private property.
   (B)   No person shall throw or deposit litter on any open or vacant private
property within the city whether owned by that person or not.
Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Whoever violates any of the provisions of this chapter shall be guilty
of a violation and shall be fined in an amount not exceeding one hundred
dollars ($100). Each day the violation is committed or permitted to continue
shall constitute a separate offense.
   (B)   Notwithstanding the affirmative action mentioned in that provision, a
violator of §
94.02(B) shall be guilty of a violation and may be fined not less than twenty-
five dollars ($25) nor more than one hundred dollars ($100) and each day of a
violation shall be deemed a separate offense.
(Ord. 1988-1-1, passed 2-11-88)
CHAPTER 95: TAXATION
Section
   
95.01   Reserved
Real Property Tax
   
95.10   Imposition of tax
   
95.11   City Clerk to prepare bills
   
95.12   Payment of bills
   
95.13   Notice; delinquency; penalty
   
95.14   Recovery of unpaid taxes
Waste Collection Assessment
   
95.20   Definition
   
95.21   Assessment; delinquency; penalty
Tax on Bank Shares
   
95.30   Tax on bank shares
   
95.31   Tax on bank shares of stock of shareholders
§ 95.01 RESERVED.
REAL PROPERTY TAX
§ 95.10 IMPOSITION OF TAX.
   There shall be imposed, levied and collected by the city under KRS 92.070
through 92.520, 92.530, and 92.640, on each one hundred dollars ($100)
valuation of real property, within the corporate limits of the city, liable for
taxation, and not exempt from municipal taxation, under the laws of the
Commonwealth and Constitution, as assessed by the County Tax Assessor,
corrected by its Board of Supervisors, and returned to the City Council, a sum
to be determined each year by the City Council on each one hundred dollars
($100) of property listed, valued, and corrected, as follows:
   (A)   For the General Revenue Fund, the sum determined yearly by City
Council.
   (B)   The funds so realized, as herein provided, shall be used for no other
purpose.
(Am. Ord. 1995-9-4, passed 10-12-95)   Penalty, see §
10.99
                
Cross-reference:
   See
Table of Special Ordinances V for rates
§ 95.11 CITY CLERK TO PREPARE BILLS.
   The City Clerk shall make out the necessary tax bills in a stub-book
furnished by the City Council; he shall take the receipt from the City
Treasurer after turning over the tax bills, and make a list of the number of
tax bills and the aggregate amount thereof, and the tax bills shall show each
item of taxation, the value thereof, and the tax imposed. The City Clerk shall
mail the tax bills to residents on or about October 31st of each year.
(Ord. 1995-9-4, passed 10-12-95; Am. Ord. 2010-06-01, passed 7-8-10)
§ 95.12 PAYMENT OF BILLS.
   The tax levied and imposed by this subchapter shall be due and payable in
the Office of the City Treasurer, City Building, Mall Road, Crestview Hills,
Kentucky, on the first day of November, and the City Treasurer shall collect
all taxes and shall correctly account for same to the City Council.
(Ord. 1995-9-4, passed 10-12-95)
§ 95.13 NOTICE; DELINQUENCY; PENALTY.
   (A)   On or before the first business day in February of the past due year,
it shall be the duty of the City Treasurer to mail written notice to delinquent
property owners, said notices shall recite that the taxes are due and unpaid
and are in his hands for collection and payment, and are in default of payment
on and after the first day of January of the past due year, and that a penalty,
as set forth by law and this chapter shall be attached. On or before the first
business day in April of the past due year, the City Treasurer shall send a
second notice to the delinquent property owner.
   (B)   Tax bills shall be endorsed by the City Treasurer, and all tax bills
remaining in his hands on the first day of January of the past due year, shall
be endorsed by him as delinquent, and returned to the City Council, as the City
Council may direct on the first regular meeting in January.
   (C)   The City Council shall thereupon order the City Treasurer to proceed
to attach a penalty of ten percent (10%) to each tax bill that is delinquent
and such delinquent tax bills shall carry a twelve percent (12%) interest per
annum charge until paid. The City Council shall order the City Treasurer to
turn over to the Tax Collector, the delinquent tax bills and receive a receipt
therefor.
   (D)   The City Clerk shall note in the minutes of the first regular meeting
for the following year, the total amount so collected by the City Treasurer,
and the City Treasurer shall make a full and complete settlement for all taxes
collected by him for the current year, that were placed in his hands for
collection, at the first regular meeting of the City Council to be held in
January.
   (E)   In addition to taxes, penalties and interest, the city may collect
from the delinquent property owner the full amount of the city’s attorney fees,
or any other fees or costs expended by the city towards the collection of
delinquent taxes.
(Ord. 1995-9-4, passed 10-12-95; Am. Ord. 1996-9-2, passed 10-10-96; Am. Ord.
2010-06-01, passed 7-8-10)
§ 95.14 RECOVERY OF UNPAID TAXES.
   (A)   On the first business day in May of each year the City Clerk shall
prepare and deliver to the City Attorney a list of all delinquent real estate
taxes and assessments, such list shall contain the following:
      (1)   A description of the land and improvements as shown on the tax bill
or assessment bill, including the street address of the land.
      (2)   A statement of the amount of each tax or assessment bill upon such
parcel, including all tax or assessment bills thereon which are delinquent, the
year for which the tax or assessment was assessed, and the date from which and
the rate at which interest and penalties shall be computed.
      (3)   The name of the last known person appearing on the records of the
City Clerk in whose name the tax bills on such real estate were listed or
charged for the year preceding the calendar year in which such list is filed.
      (4)   A photocopy of each such tax or assessment bill shall be attached
to the list.
   (B)   On or before the first business day of June of each year the City
Attorney shall write a letter to each person in whose name a bill is listed on
the list so supplied by the City Clerk. Such letter shall demand payment of
bill with interest, penalty and costs and inform the person that a lien will be
filed by the city on the property.
   (C)   On or before June 7th of each year, the City Attorney will prepare and
file notices of delinquent city tax liens on all properties which remain
delinquent.
   (D)   On or before the first business day in July the City Attorney shall
send notice to all delinquent taxpayers that taxes are due for a second year.
If the delinquent tax bill is for commercial property the City Attorney shall
inform the property owner that foreclosure procedures may take place by January
of the following calendar year. If the delinquent bill is for non-commercial
property and amount in arrears exceeds three thousand dollars ($3,000) then
notice will alert the property owner that foreclosure procedures may take place
in January of the following calendar year.
   (E)   All non-commercial property with taxes that have been delinquent for
three (3) years may have a foreclosure complaint filed by the City Attorney.
(Ord. 2010-06-01, passed 7-8-10)
WASTE COLLECTION ASSESSMENT
§ 95.20 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   "DWELLING UNIT." A one-family residence, the premises of which a family of
one or more reside; and, in the case of apartment buildings, each apartment
shall be considered a separate dwelling unit.
(Ord. 1977-8-2, passed 8-10-77)
§ 95.21 ASSESSMENT; DELINQUENCY; PENALTY.
   (A)   A waste collection and recycling assessment of one hundred twenty-five
dollars ($125) per dwelling unit per year, as may be amended from time to time
as part of the city’s annual budgetary process, shall be levied for the
purposes of defraying the cost of waste collection and recycling in the city.
   (B)   The waste collection and recycling assessment levied by the City
Council shall be due and payable to the City Treasurer on or before January 1.
Anyone failing to pay the assessment by January 1 shall be deemed delinquent
and their bill shall have added thereto a penalty of ten percent (10%) of the
amount thereof, and shall bear interest at the rate of eight percent (8%) per
annum from January 1 until paid. The assessment shall constitute a lien upon
the property and be collectible in the same manner as the tax levied against
real estate.
(Ord. 1977-8-2, passed 8-10-77; Am. Ord. 2018-08-02, passed 9-13-18; Am. Ord.
2020-10-01, passed 11-12-20)
TAX ON BANK SHARES
§ 95.30 TAX ON BANK SHARES.
   There is hereby levied for the fiscal year beginning July 1, 1994 and each
year thereafter a tax of the maximum amount allowed by KRS 136.270 on each one
hundred dollars ($100) of the taxable fair cash value of the shares of such
banks subject to taxation for municipal purposes as provided by KRS 136.270(3),
(4) and (5).
(Ord. 1993-5-4, passed 6-10-93)
§ 95.31 TAX ON BANK SHARES OF STOCK OF SHAREHOLDERS.
   (A)   For each fiscal year, there shall be imposed, levied and collected, a
tax by the city, pursuant to KRS 136.270, 136.280, 132.190(6) and 132.200(7) on
the valuation of shares of stock owned by shareholders in banks of trust
companies.
   (B)   The tax shall be imposed on each one hundred dollars ($100) of the
taxable fair cash value of the shares of bank stock whose principal office is
located in the city. The amount of the tax shall be determined by multiplying
an amount determined by the City Council by a fraction, the numerator of which
is the fair cash value of shares of all banks or trust companies within the
city and the denominator of which is the taxable fair cash value of shares of
all banks or trust companies within the city.
   (C)   The fair cash value of shares of banks and taxable fair cash value of
shares of banks shall be determined in accordance with KRS 136.270.
(Ord. 1994-9-2, passed 10-13-94; Am. Ord. 1995-9-5, passed 10-12-95)
                
Cross-reference:
   See
Table of Special Ordinances V for rates
CHAPTER 96: ALARM DROPS
§ 96.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   "ALARM DROPS." A warning or sound device that is put in operation to
indicate and inform police authorities that unauthorized activity is
transpiring on a particular parcel of land within the city limits.
   "FALSE ALARM DROPS." An alarm drop that police authorities respond to and in
which there is no evidence that unauthorized activity has actually transpired.
(Ord. 1983-12-1, passed 1-12-84)
§ 96.02 EXCESSIVE FALSE ALARM DROPS PROHIBITED.
   It is hereby and herewith determined that more than two (2) false alarm
drops per business establishment per home or multiple dwelling per calendar
month is a threat to the public safety and welfare of this city, and that any
false alarm drop in excess of two (2) false alarm drops per calendar month
shall be prohibited.
(Ord. 1983-12-1, passed 1-12-84)     
§ 96.03 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   A citation shall be given to the offending person or entity having
control of the warning sound device by the Chief of Lakeside Park-Crestview
Hills Police Authority or his representative. In the event that the fine set
out in the citation is not paid within ten (10) days, the Chief or his
representative shall take appropriate legal action.
   (B)   The Chief of Lakeside Park-Crestview Hills Police Authority or his
appointee from the Police Authority shall certify such excessive false alarm
drops and bill the offending business establishment or property owner. The
person certifying the false alarm drops shall take into consideration the
prevailing weather conditions. In the event the offending party fails to pay
said billing, cause shall be had to revoke any license in effect as well as
other appropriate civil and criminal remedies.
(Ord. 1983-12-1, passed 1-12-84)
§ 96.99 PENALTY.
   For each and every violation of this chapter a civil penalty shall be levied
in the amount of twenty-five dollars ($25.00) against the person or entity in
whose control the warning or sound device is under and said fine shall be paid
to the Crestview Hills General Fund.
(Ord. 1983-12-1, passed 1-12-84)
CHAPTER 97: PARKS AND RECREATION
Section
   
97.01   Use of parks, park hours
   
97.02   Centre View Park
 
   
97.99   Penalty
§ 97.01 USE OF PARKS, PARK HOURS.
   (A)   The city’s parks are constructed and maintained for the use of the
public at large, and shall be opened daily to all citizens on absolutely equal
terms. No person shall be given special privileges in any public park or be
permitted to make use of them for any illegal purpose.
   (B)   No person shall be present in any city park after dusk or before dawn
except as follows:
      (1)   When attending or participating in an activity authorized by a
permit or permission issued pursuant to the Code of Ordinances.
      (2)   Any employee or person conducting official city business in the
park.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person to willfully enter upon or remain
within any city parks during such hours as the parks are closed to public use
or on other property owned by the city that is closed to the public.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate or use skateboards or
bicycles within any city park.
   (E)   It shall be unlawful for any person to deface, damage, steal, mark, or
graffiti any city property, tree, public art or sculpture, or other city-owned
item within any city park.
   (F)   Persons using the park do so at their own risk.
   (G)   It shall be unlawful for any person to hunt, trap, chase, tease, or
shoot at any animal, reptile, or bird in the city park, unless it is for
official city business in the park.
   (H)   Persons using the park shall clean up the area that was occupied or
used.
   (I)   No fires or outside cooking activities are permitted in the city park.
   (J)   It shall be unlawful for any person to camp in the city park.
(Ord. 2022-09-01, passed 10-12-22)
§ 97.02 CENTRE VIEW PARK.
   The shelter in Centre View Park, located at 701 Centre View Boulevard, is
hereby officially named Frank B. Sommerkamp, Jr. Shelter.
(Ord. 2022-09-01, passed 10-12-22)
§ 97.99 PENALTY.
   Any violation of this chapter shall be deemed to be a criminal violation,
punishable by a $250 fine.
(Ord. 2022-09-01, passed 10-12-22)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
      Chapter
         
110.   GENERAL LICENSING PROVISIONS
         
111.   PROHIBITED BUSINESS AND COMMERCIAL ACTIVITIES
         
112.   PEDDLERS, ITINERANT MERCHANTS, SOLICITORS, AND CANVASSERS
         
113.   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
         
114.   AMUSEMENTS
         
115.   GARAGE SALES
         
116.   FINANCIAL INSTITUTION FRANCHISE AND LOCAL DEPOSIT TAX
         
117.   RENTAL PROPERTIES
         
118.   SHORT TERM RENTAL PROPERTIES
         119.   MEDICINAL CANNABIS
CHAPTER 110: GENERAL LICENSING PROVISIONS
Section
   
110.01   Definitions
   
110.02   Adoption of chapter
   
110.03   Short title
   
110.04   Purpose; enforcement
   
110.05   Business regulatory license required; standards for issuance
   
110.06   Fee imposed
   
110.07   Exclusions and exemptions
   
110.08   Apportionment of gross receipts
   
110.09   Payment of occupational license fee
   
110.10   Collection
   
110.11   Use of license fees
   
110.12   Computation of license fee for work or services performed inside and
outside of the city
   
110.13   Information to be confidential
   
110.14   Investigative powers of City Treasurer
   
110.99   Penalty and interest
§ 110.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   "ANYBODY" or "ANYONE." Any person required to act, comply, or provide
information by this chapter.
   "BUSINESS ENTITY." Shall have the same meaning as set forth in KRS 67.750.
   "BUSINESS REGULATORY LICENSE." A license required by the city, pursuant to
the police power thereof, for the purpose of regulating business activities and
operations within the city.
   "BUSINESS REGULATORY LICENSE FEE." A fee required by the city for each
business regulatory license, pursuant to KRS 82.082 and police power thereof,
to provide the funds necessary to pay the expenses of regulating business
activities and operations within the city, including, without limitation, the
expense of issuing business regulatory licenses.
   “CITY.” The City of Crestview Hills, Kentucky, its officers and employees,
including, but not limited to the City Administrator, City Clerk and City
Finance Officer/Treasurer.
   “CITY CLERK.” The City Clerk of the City of Crestview Hills, Kentucky.
   “CITY DESIGNEE.” Any person or entity that the city employs or contracts
with for the implementation, administration or collection of occupational
license fees and/or taxes under this chapter. Kenton County is a “CITY
DESIGNEE” pursuant to the applicable interlocal agreement signed by the city
and the county.
   "COMPENSATION." Shall have the same meaning as set forth in KRS 67.750.
   “EMPLOYEE.” Shall have the same meaning as in KRS 67.750.
   "LICENSE." A Crestview Hills business regulatory license.
   “LICENSEE.” Any business entity required to obtain a business regulatory
license, file a return or pay a license fee under this chapter.
   “OCCUPATION,” “TRADE,” “PROFESSION,” or “OTHER ACTIVITY.” The doing of any
kind of work, the rendering of any kind of personal service, or the holding of
any kind of position or job within the city by any clerk, laborer, tradesman,
manager, official or other employee, including any nonresident of the city who
is employed by an employer, as defined in this section where the relationship
between the individual performing the services and the person for whom such
services are rendered is, as to those services, the legal relationship of
employer and employee, including also a partner of a firm or an officer who
receives a salary for his or her personal services rendered in the business of
such firm or corporation. The words “OCCUPATION,” “TRADE,” “PROFESSION,” or
“OTHER ACTIVITY” shall also include an officer or employee employed, either by
election or appointment by any federal agency, state, county, or city, where
the services of such official or employee are rendered within the city.
   “OCCUPATIONAL LICENSE FEE.” A tax for revenue, pursuant to the taxing
authority of the City of Crestview Hills, including, without limitation, the
authority established by KRS 82.082, KRS 92.280, KRS 92.281 and Section 181 of
the Kentucky Constitution, wherein it is sometimes identified and referred to
as a power to impose and collect license fees on stock used for breeding
purposes; on franchises; trades; occupations; associations; and professions.
   "TAXABLE YEAR." The calendar year or fiscal year ending during the calendar
year upon the basis of which net income or gross receipts are computed.
   “TREASURER.” The Finance Officer/Treasurer of the City of Crestview Hills,
Kentucky, or the city designee.
(Ord. 2007-12-1, passed 12-13-07; Am. Ord. 2019-08-02, passed 11-14-19; Am.
Ord. 2021-7-2, passed 8-12-21)
§ 110.02 ADOPTION OF CHAPTER.
   This chapter is adopted to enable the city to more efficiently administer
the assessment and payment of business regulatory license and occupational
license fees on all business entities conducting businesses, trades,
occupations and professions within the city, and in compliance with the
requirements of KRS 67.750 to 67.795, as may be amended.
(Ord. 2019-08-02, passed 11-14-19; Am. Ord. 2021-7-2, passed 8-12-21)
§ 110.03 SHORT TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known and referred to as the “Occupational License Fee
Chapter”.
(Ord. 2019-08-02, passed 11-14-19; Am. Ord. 2021-7-2, passed 8-12-21)
§ 110.04 PURPOSE; ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   The purpose of this chapter is to regulate and tax anyone or any
entity engaged in franchises, trades, occupations, associations, professions
and other businesses in the city.
   (B)   Administrative provisions. The provisions of this chapter shall be
administered by the City Administrative Officer, who is hereby authorized to
promulgate any additional regulations in regard thereto which are not
inconsistent with any state statute, any ordinance of the city, or any
executive order of the Mayor.
   (C)   The Treasurer, or city designee, acting under the direction and
control of the City Administrative Officer, is hereby charged with the
enforcement of provisions of this chapter, and is hereby empowered to
prescribe, adopt, and promulgate and enforce rules and regulations relating to
any matter pertaining to the enforcement of the provisions of this chapter,
including but not limited to provisions for the re-examination and correction
of returns to which an underpayment or overpayment is claimed or found to have
been made, and the rules and regulations as promulgated by him or her shall be
binding upon the licensee and employers. Provided, however, all such rules,
regulations and decisions shall be subject to disapproval by the Mayor. This
authority is not diminished or eliminated by the city's participation in an
agreement with one or more other governmental entities or other authorized
collection agencies for collection of occupational license fees and taxes.
   (D)   The Treasurer or city designee, by representatives appointed by him or
her in writing, may at any time examine the books, papers, and records of any
business entity or employee in order to determine the accuracy of any return
made or if no return was made to ascertain the amount of license fee imposed by
the terms of this chapter, as he or she may deem this reasonably necessary for
purposes incident to the performance of his or her duties hereunder. The
Treasurer or city designee may enforce this right by application to the
appropriate court having jurisdiction over these matters.
   (E)   Any city staff member or contractor designated by the City
Administrator or the Mayor shall assist the Treasurer or city designee in the
enforcement of this chapter.
   (F)   The executive authority of the city may contract with the Fiscal Court
of Kenton County or any other designated collection agent, for the performance
of some or all of the duties imposed on city staff by this chapter. Any
contract with the Fiscal Court of Kenton County or other city designee does not
preclude the city, through its officers and employees, from separately
enforcing any or all of the provisions of this chapter.
   (G)   Nothing in this chapter shall prevent the city from seeking injunctive
relief pursuant to KRS 83A.065 or any other relief from a court of competent
jurisdiction.
(Ord. 2007-12-1, passed 12-13-07; Am. Ord. 2019-08-02, passed 11-14-19; Am.
Ord. 2021-7-2, passed 8-12-21)
§ 110.05 BUSINESS REGULATORY LICENSE REQUIRED; STANDARDS FOR ISSUANCE.
   (A)   Requirements. Every business entity shall obtain an annual business
regulatory license for that franchise, trade, occupation, profession or other
business; and pay to the city a business regulatory license fee in the amount
of either fifty dollars ($50) or that part of a multi-jurisdictional business
regulatory license fee, collected by the county and proportionally allocated to
the city, pursuant to the provisions of an interlocal agreement between the
city and the county and some other cities therein, for a single multi-
jurisdictional annual business regulatory license fee.
   (B)   Prohibitions. No business entity in the city shall conspire, cause,
permit, promote, allow, aid, assist, encourage, or engage in any franchise,
trade, occupation, profession or other business in the city for which the
annual business regulatory license required hereby has not been issued.
   (C)   Expiration date.
      (1)   A business regulatory license required hereby shall expire at
midnight on the fifteenth day of the fourth month after the end of the taxable
year of the licensee, unless another expiration date is specified by the city
or its designee.
      (2)   In addition to any penalties and fines imposed by this chapter,
there shall be a penalty of 10% of the amount of any license fee herein imposed
if the business regulatory license fee is not paid on or before the first day
due.
   (D)   Application process.
      (1)   Every business entity required to procure a business regulatory
license under the provisions of this chapter shall submit an application for
the business regulatory license on the designated form specified by the city or
Kenton County.
      (2)   Each application for an annual business regulatory license required
by this chapter that is received and accepted by the city or Kenton County
shall be immediately referred to the City Administrative Officer, who shall
review it according to the following standards within thirty (30) days after
the receipt and acceptance thereof by the City Clerk.
   (E)   Review of applications.
      (1)   When the applicant, or employees of the applicant, are required to
have any license, permit, degree, certification or other similar document
pursuant to the provision of any applicable law for the conduct of or
employment in the business which is the subject of the application or renewal
application, the license, permit, degree, certification or other similar
document shall have been duly issued to the applicant or employees of the
applicant prior to the issuance of the business regulatory license. Documentary
evidence of the issuance satisfactory to the City Administrative Officer shall
be provided by the applicant.
      (2)   The criminal record of the persons named or identified in the
application shall be considered to the extent such record includes conviction
of a felony, a misdemeanor for which imprisonment or other confinement was a
possible penalty, any other crime in which moral turpitude was involved or any
other crime which was directly related to a business of the type which is the
subject of the application. In determining if a conviction was directly related
to a business, the City Administrative Officer shall consider:
         (a)   The nature and seriousness of the crime for which the person was
convicted;
         (b)   The relationship of the crime to the purpose of the regulation
of the business;
         (c)   The relationship of the crime to the ability, capacity and
fitness required to perform the duties and discharge the responsibilities of
the operation of the business; and
         (d)   The extent to which the person convicted has been successfully
rehabilitated.
      (3)   The City Administrative Officer shall consider whether the business
is of a type that the operation, unless closely supervised, has a probability
of generating or resulting in criminal activity or adversely affecting the
health, safety, morals and welfare of occupants or residents of adjoining
property, the citizens and residents of the city, or will constitute a
nuisance.
      (4)   The City Administrative Officer shall consider the business history
of the applicant including:
         (a)   Whether the persons named and identified in the application have
been denied or had suspended or revoked a similar license by the city or any
other city, county or state and the reasons therefor; and
         (b)   Whether complaints have been received by the city about the
business practices or responsibility of the persons named and identified in the
application, and the disposition of those complaints.
      (5)   The City Administrative Officer shall consider whether the persons
named and identified in the application are indebted to the city for delinquent
taxes, assessments, fines or similar obligations.
      (6)   The City Administrative Officer shall consider whether the business
and the proposed location complies with all applicable laws, including, without
limitation, land subdivision and use, zoning, building construction and
maintenance, and fire prevention and life safety regulations.
   (F)   Determination. After review of the application in conformity with this
division, the City Administrative Officer shall notify the applicable city
staff member, applicable Kenton County staff member, or any designee thereof,
of either:
      (1)   The approval of the application;
      (2)   The approval of the application conditionally; but if the
application is approved conditionally, the City Administrative Officer shall
determine and require those conditions that are reasonably necessary to
accomplish the intent of this chapter, including, without limitation:
         (a)   A requirement that the applicant post bond with surety
acceptable to the City Administrative Officer in a reasonable amount determined
by the City Administrative Officer to ensure compliance;
         (b)   A requirement that a debt to the city be paid before a specified
date;
         (c)   A requirement that the applicant permit periodic inspection of
certain parts of the premises or of certain records; and/or
         (d)   A requirement that certain alterations be made in the premises
before a specified date; or
      (3)   The disapproval of the application and the reason for the
disapproval.
   (G)   Notice to the applicant. Unless the City Clerk receives a written
notice from the City Administrative Officer within thirty (30) days after an
application for a business regulatory license required by this chapter has been
referred to the City Administrative Officer for review pursuant to division (E)
above, that the application was either conditionally approved or disapproved
the City Clerk or the city designee thereof shall issue the business regulatory
license that is the subject of the application and mail it to the applicant at
the address indicated in the application; and, thereafter, the applicant may
engage in the franchise, trade, occupation, profession or other business
described in the application, but only at the address thereof indicated in the
application, until that business regulatory license expires or is suspended or
revoked according to the provisions of this chapter.
   (H)   Conditional approval of application. In the event that the City Clerk
receives a written notice from the City Administrative Officer within thirty
(30) days after an application for a business regulatory license required by
this chapter has been referred to the City Administrative Officer for review
pursuant to division (E) above that the application was conditionally approved,
the City Clerk shall notify the applicant thereof and the reasons therefore
identified by the City Administrative Officer by certified mail, return receipt
requested, to the address of the applicant indicated in the application, along
with a notice that the license will be issued by the City Clerk only upon
receipt by the City Clerk of a written signed acceptance by the applicant of
the conditions to be performed prior to the issuance of the license. The notice
shall also state that if the acceptance is not received by the City Clerk
within such time, the application will thereby be disapproved.
   (I)   Disapproval of application. In the event that the City Clerk receives
a written notice from the City Administrative Officer within thirty (30) days
after an application for a business regulatory license required by this chapter
has been referred to the City Administrative Officer for review pursuant to
division (E) above that the application was disapproved by the City
Administrative Officer, the City Clerk shall notify the applicant of that
denial and the reasons therefore identified by the City Administrative Officer
by certified mail, return receipt requested, to the address of the applicant
indicated in the application, with a refund of any anticipated city
occupational license fee paid with the application, and a notice of the
procedure established in this chapter for an appeal from the denial of that
application.
   (J)   Additional requirements.
      (1)   All business entities who are subject to the city’s occupational
license fee must display a valid, current business regulatory license in a
business space that is capable of being publicly viewed. Upon request by the
City Administrator or his/her designee, a business entity must produce a valid,
current business regulatory license.
      (2)   Any business regulatory license issued by the city or Kenton County
which is determined to be in violation of the city’s ordinances or is otherwise
deficient or was inadvertently or erroneously issued may be revoked by the city
and/or its designee pursuant to the procedures in this chapter.
   (K)   Business regulatory license revocation or suspension. Any business
regulatory license required by this chapter may be revoked or suspended by the
City Administrative Officer for any period of time determined by the City
Administrative Officer to be reasonable and appropriate for any of the
following reasons, but only after a due process evidentiary hearing in regard
thereto, for which a notice has been sent to the licensee at the address
indicated in the licensee’s application, by certified mail, return receipt
requested, at least ten (10) days prior to the hearing:
      (1)   Any failure to pay the business regulatory license fee and/or
occupational license fees as required by this chapter;
      (2)   Any false or intentionally misleading statement or information
provided in the license application, any occupational license fee return
(including required attachments or forms), or any refund application;
      (3)   Any failure or refusal to perform or abide by any of the conditions
of a conditional business regulatory license;
      (4)   The criminal conviction of any person named or identified in the
business regulatory license application of a felony, a misdemeanor for which
imprisonment or any other confinement is a possible penalty, any other crime in
which moral turpitude is involved, or any other crime which directly relates to
a business of the type for which the license was issued. However, the
consideration of such a criminal conviction shall include:
         (a)   The nature and seriousness of the crime for which the person was
convicted;
         (b)   The relationship of the crime to the purposes of the regulation
of the business;
         (c)   The relationship of the crime to the ability, capacity and
fitness required to perform the duties and discharge the responsibilities of
the operation of the business; and
         (d)   The extent to which the person has been successfully
rehabilitated;
      (5)   The revocation, suspension or expiration without renewal of any
license, permit, degree, certification or similar document which is required by
any applicable law for the conduct of or employment in the business for which
the business regulatory license was issued;
      (6)   The violation of any applicable law in the conduct of the business
by any person engaged therein or by any employee of said business; and
      (7)   Violations of applicable laws by any person within the business
premises of the licensee, or under the control thereof.
   (L)   Appeals.
      (1)   Any conditional approval or disapproval of an application for a
business regulatory license required by this chapter, or any suspension or
revocation of any such license may be appealed to the Mayor of the city by
filing with the City Clerk within thirty (30) days after the conditional
approval, disapproval, revocation or suspension:
         (a)   A written notice of the appeal;
         (b)   A copy of the conditional approval, disapproval, revocation, or
suspension that is the subject of the appeal;
         (c)   A statement of why there should be an approval without
conditions, or no disapproval, revocation or suspension; and
         (d)   An appeal fee in the sum of two hundred dollars ($200), to
provide for the expenses of conducting a due process hearing in regard thereto.
      (2)   In such an appeal, a de novo due process hearing regarding the
suspension or revocation shall be conducted by the Mayor, or by a hearing
officer appointed by the Mayor, who shall file a record with the Mayor, with a
written recommendation regarding findings of fact, conclusions of law and a
decision based thereon. Within ninety (90) days after the date the appeal was
filed, the Mayor shall issue a written decision in regard thereto, including
findings of fact, conclusions of law and a decision based upon a record of the
due process hearing; and the appellant shall be notified thereof by certified
mail, return receipt requested, at the address thereof indicated in the
application for the license. Unless an appeal from the decision of the Mayor is
filed in the court having jurisdiction thereof within thirty (30) days after
the decision of the Mayor, the decision of the Mayor shall become final.
(Ord. 2007-12-1, passed 12-13-07; Am. Ord. 2019-08-02, passed 11-14-19; Am.
Ord. 2021-7-2, passed 8-12-21) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.06 FEE IMPOSED.
   (A)   Levy and imposition. For the purpose of providing funds for the
general operating expenses of the city and the municipal services and functions
provided thereby, and subject to the provisions of KRS 67.750 through 67.795,
an occupational license fee is hereby levied and imposed upon every business
entity and employee engaged in any franchise, trade, occupation, profession or
other businesses in the city, for the privilege of that engagement.
   (B)   Rate. The occupational license fee that is levied and imposed by this
chapter is at the rate of:
      (1)   Employees. The rate of one and fifteen one-hundredths percent
(1.15%) of all of the gross compensation earned by an employee for labor, work
or services provided or performed in the city, which shall be limited to the
maximum amount on which Social Security taxes are paid by one employer or
employee.
      (2)   Business entities. The rate of seventy-five thousandths percent
(0.075%) of the taxable gross receipts of every business entity who is engaged
in any franchise, trade, occupation, profession or other business in the city,
capped at forty thousand dollars ($40,000) per taxable year.
   (C)   Purpose of occupational license fee. The purpose of the occupational
license fees imposed and levied by this chapter is to fund the general
operating expenses of the city, including, without limitation, police, fire,
emergency medical, public works and administrative services.
(Ord. 2007-12-1, passed 12-13-07; Am. Ord. 2018-08-03, passed 9-13-18; Am. Ord.
2019-08-02, passed 11-14-19; Am. Ord. 2021-7-2, passed 8-12-21) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.07 EXCLUSIONS AND EXEMPTIONS.
   The following business entities and employees are exempt from the
occupational license fee levied and imposed in this chapter:
   (A)   The employment of domestic servants in private homes;
   (B)   Organizations that have been determined to be exempt from federal
income taxation pursuant to § 501(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1954,
as amended;
   (C)   Business entities and employees exempt from taxation pursuant to KRS
91.200; and
   (D)   Any business, occupation or profession which is exempt from municipal
licensing or license taxes pursuant to state or federal law.
(Ord. 2007-12-1, passed 12-13-07; Am. Ord. 2019-08-02, passed 11-14-19; Am.
Ord. 2021-7-2, passed 8-12-21)
§ 110.08 APPORTIONMENT OF GROSS RECEIPTS.
   Pursuant to the authority of KRS 67.753(4), it is hereby determined that the
apportionment provisions of KRS 67.753 do not fairly represent the extent of
the engagement in the city of those, other than employees, who are engaged in
any franchise, trade, occupation, profession or other business both within and
outside of the city; and, accordingly, the following described property factor
is hereby added to the payroll factor and the sales factor provided in KRS
67.753 for the apportionment of the gross receipts of those, other than
employees, who are engaged in any franchise, trade, occupation, profession or
other business both within and outside of the city.
   (A)   The property factor is a fraction of which is the average value of the
taxpayers real and tangible personal property owned or rented and used in the
city during the computation period, and the denominator of which is the average
value of all of the taxpayer’s real and tangible personal property owned or
rented and used anywhere during the computation period. In the determination of
the property factor:
      (1)   Property owned by the taxpayer is valued at its original cost.
Property rented by the taxpayer is valued at eight (8) times the net annual
rental rate, which is the annual rental rate paid by the taxpayer less any
annual rental rate received by the taxpayer from sub-rentals; and
      (2)   The average value of property shall be determined by averaging the
values at the beginning and ending of the computation period, but the City
Administrative Officer may require the averaging of monthly values during the
computation period if reasonably required to reflect properly the average value
of the taxpayer’s property.
   (B)   The proportion of the total gross receipts everywhere of the business
entity, who are engaged in any franchise, trade, occupation, profession or
other business both within and outside of the city that are subject to the
occupational license fee established by this chapter, shall be determined by
multiplying the total gross receipts thereof everywhere by the quotient of the
total of the payroll factor and the sales factor described in KRS 67.753(2) and
(3), and the property factor described in the previous division (A)(1) above,
that the franchise, trade, occupation, profession or other business had in the
city during the tax period, divided by the total number of those factors that
the franchise, trade, occupation, profession or other business had in the city
during the tax period. The total number of those factors that the franchise,
trade, occupation, profession or other business had in the city during the tax
period will always be either one (1), two (2) or three (3). For example, if the
franchise, trade, occupation, profession or other business:
      (1)   Had only the sales revenue factor in the city during the tax
period, without either the property factor or the payroll factor in the city,
the total number of those factors that the franchise, trade, occupation,
profession or other business had in the city during the tax period would be one
(1);
      (2)   Had both the sales revenue factor and the payroll factor in the
city during the tax period, without the property factor in the city, the total
number of those factors that the franchise, trade, occupation, profession or
other business had in the city during the tax period would be two (2); or
      (3)   Had the sales revenue factor, the payroll factor, and the property
factor in the city during the tax period, the total number of those factors
that the franchise, trade, occupation, profession or other business had in the
city during the tax period would be three (3).
(Ord. 2007-12-1, passed 12-13-07; Am. Ord. 2019-08-02, passed 11-14-19; Am.
Ord. 2021-7-2, passed 8-12-21)
§ 110.09 PAYMENT OF OCCUPATIONAL LICENSE FEE.
   (A)   Each employer who employs one or more persons within the city shall
deduct monthly, or more often than monthly, at the time of the payment thereof,
the occupational license fee due from each employee measured by the amount of
salaries, wages, commissions, or compensation due by the employer to the
employee and shall pay to the Treasurer or city designee the amount of
occupational license fee so deducted. The payment required to be made on
account of deductions by employers shall be made quarterly to the Treasurer, or
the city’s designee, for the quarterly periods ending on the last day of March,
June, September, and December of each year, on or before the last day of the
month following the quarter of the deduction. The employer shall annually by
February 28 of each year make a return to the Treasurer, or the city designee,
in which return is set forth the name and residence of each employee of the
employer during the preceding calendar year, giving the amount of salaries,
wages, commission, or other compensations earned during the preceding year by
each such employee. A copy of the applicable federal Forms W-2 and W-3 is an
acceptable submission of this required information. The failure or omission of
any employer to deduct the occupational license fee shall not relieve the
employee from the payment of the occupational license fee in compliance with
such regulation with respect to making returns and payment thereof, as may be
fixed in this chapter or established by the Treasurer.
   (B)   Any business entity subject to any license fee imposed by this chapter
shall, consistent with KRS 67.768, make and file with the Treasurer or the
city’s designee a return on a form furnished by or attainable from the
Treasurer or city designee, and include payment for the amount due.
   (C)   The Treasurer shall have the authority to extend the time of filing of
such returns in his discretion. The extension shall be upon the written request
of the licensee. The licensee shall pay, as part of the tax, interest as
provided by KRS 67.770.
   (D)   A copy of the applicable federal tax form shall be attached to the
annual license return filed with the Treasurer or the city’s designee.
(Ord. 2007-12-1, passed 12-13-07; Am. Ord. 2019-08-02, passed 11-14-19; Am.
Ord. 2021-7-2, passed 8-12-21)
§ 110.10 COLLECTION.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the Treasurer and the City Clerk, or their
respective designees, to collect and receive the license fees imposed by this
chapter.
   (B)   The Treasurer or the city designee shall give a receipt and shall keep
records showing the amount paid by each license and employer and the date of
such receipt.
   (C)   In order to facilitate the duties set forth in this section, the
executive authority of the city may contract with the Kenton County Fiscal
Court for the performance of some or all of the duties imposed by this chapter
upon the City Clerk and the City Treasurer.
(Ord. 2007-12-1, passed 12-13-07; Am. Ord. 2019-08-02, passed 11-14-19; Am.
Ord. 2021-7-2, passed 8-12-21)
§ 110.11 USE OF LICENSE FEES.
   (A)   All moneys derived from occupational license fees under the provisions
of this chapter shall be paid to the Treasurer or city designee and placed to
the credit of the general revenue fund of the city and shall be used and
expended in defraying current, general, and incidental expenses of the city.
   (B)   It is the purpose of this chapter to provide revenue for the general
fund of the city and it is not the intention of the city to make use of this
chapter to impose and require an occupational license fee prohibited by law.
(Ord. 2007-12-1, passed 12-13-07; Am. Ord. 2019-08-02, passed 11-14-19; Am.
Ord. 2021-7-2, passed 8-12-21)
§ 110.12 COMPUTATION OF LICENSE FEE FOR WORK OR SERVICES PERFORMED INSIDE AND
OUTSIDE OF THE CITY.
   In cases where compensation is earned as a result of work done or services
performed both within and outside the city, the occupational license fee
required under this chapter shall be computed by determining that percentage of
the compensation earned from the proportion of the work which was done or
performed within the city. It is the responsibility of the individual employer
to furnish appropriate documentation with specific information as to hours/days
spent working outside the city upon request by the Treasurer or the city’s
designee.
(Ord. 2019-08-02, passed 11-14-19; Am. Ord. 2021-7-2, passed 8-12-21)
§ 110.13 INFORMATION TO BE CONFIDENTIAL.
   Any information, including returns, documents, or payments made pursuant
thereto and any other information gained by the Treasurer, City Clerk or any
other official, agent, or employee of the city as a result of any return,
investigation, hearing, or verification required or authorized by this chapter
or by agreement shall be confidential as provided by KRS 67.790.
(Ord. 2007-12-1, passed 12-13-07; Am. Ord. 2021-7-2, passed 8-12-21)
§ 110.14 INVESTIGATIVE POWERS OF CITY TREASURER.
   (A)   The Treasurer or any agent or employee designated by him or her is
authorized to examine the books, papers and records of any employer or supposed
employer or of a licensee or supposed licensee in order to determine the
accuracy of any return made, or if no return was made to ascertain the amount
of license fee due under the terms of this chapter by the examination. Each
employer or supposed employer or licensee shall give to the Treasurer upon the
Treasurer’s request, and without limitation, or to his or her duly authorized
agent or employee, the means, facilities and opportunity for the making of the
examination and investigation.
   (B)   The Treasurer or any agent or employee designated by him or her is
authorized to examine any person under oath concerning any information which
was or should have been shown in a return and to this end he or she may compel
the production of books, papers, records and the attendance of all persons
before him, whether as parties or as witnesses, whom he or she believes to have
knowledge of the gross receipts or compensation, to the extent that any officer
empowered to administer oaths in the Commonwealth is permitted to so order.
(Ord. 2019-08-02, passed 11-14-19; Am. Ord. 2021-7-2, passed 8-12-21)
§ 110.99 PENALTY AND INTEREST.
   (A)   Penalties under this chapter shall be as provided in KRS 67.790.
   (B)   In addition to an criminal penalty in KRS 67.790, the city may enforce
the collection of the occupational fee due under this chapter as well as
payroll taxes due and any fees, penalties and interest as provided by civil
action in a court of appropriate jurisdiction. To the extent authorized by the
law the city shall be entitled to recover all court costs and reasonable
attorney fees incurred by it in enforcing any provision of this chapter.
(Ord. 2019-08-02, passed 11-14-19; Am. Ord. 2021-7-2, passed 8-12-21)
CHAPTER 111: PROHIBITED BUSINESS AND COMMERCIAL ACTIVITIES
OFFENSE KRS SECTION PENALTY CLASS
OFFENSE                                  KRS SECTION PENALTY CLASS
ADVERTISING
   Bait advertising                   517.040     A misdemeanor
   False advertising                  517.030     A misdemeanor
BRIBERY
   Commercial bribery                 518.020     A misdemeanor
   Receiving commercial bribe         518.030     A misdemeanor
   Receiving sports bribe             518.050     D felony
   Sports bribery                     518.040     D felony
DECEPTIVE BUSINESS PRACTICES             517.020     A misdemeanor
FALSIFYING BUSINESS RECORDS              517.050     A misdemeanor
FRAUD
   Defrauding judgment creditors      517.070     A misdemeanor
   Defrauding secured creditors       517.060     A misdemeanor
                                                     C or or D felony
   Fraud in insolvency                517.080     A misdemeanor
ISSUING FALSE FINANCIAL STATEMENT        517.090     A misdemeanor
MISAPPLICATION OF ENTRUSTED PROPERTY     517.110     A misdemeanor
RECEIVING DEPOSITS IN FAILING FINANCIAL  517.100     D felony
INSTITUTION
TAMPERING WITH OR RIGGING SPORTS CONTEST 518.060     A misdemeanor
TICKET SCALPING                          518.070     Violation
 
Penalty, see
Ch. 139
CHAPTER 112: PEDDLERS, ITINERANT MERCHANTS, SOLICITORS, AND CANVASSERS
Section
   
112.01   Definitions
   
112.02   License requirement
   
112.03   Exemptions
   
112.04   Application procedure and criteria
   
112.05   Standards for approval/issuance of identification cards
   
112.06   No-knock list
   
112.07   Revocation procedure
   
112.08   Standards for revocation
   
112.09   Service of process and notice
 
   
112.99   Penalty
§ 112.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   “BUSINESS.” The business carried on by any person who is an itinerant
merchant,
peddler, or solicitor as defined in this section.
   “CANVASSER.” A person who engages in canvassing.
   “CANVASSING.” The act of going upon property or approaching people to
discuss or explain issues, which shall include religious proselytizing,
exercising an individual's freedom of speech or campaigning for political
votes, or political petition drives, or any other such political, religious,
protected speech.
   “GOODS.” Merchandise of any description whatsoever, and includes, but is not
restricted to, wares and foodstuffs.
   “PEDDLER.” Any person, whether a resident or not, who travels by foot,
wagon, automotive vehicle or any other type of conveyance, from place to place,
from house to house, or from street to street, conveying, transporting, or
carrying goods for sale, or making sales, or making deliveries of goods, wares,
or merchandise.
   “SOLICITATION.” The request for contributions, or the act of taking orders
for the sale of goods or services or pledges, or subscriptions, connected to a
commercial enterprise, or as part of or in furtherance of a for-profit
enterprise, venture, or business.
   “SOLICITOR.” Any person who travels by any means from place to place, or
house to house, or street to street, taking or attempting to take orders for
sale of goods to be delivered in the future or for services to be performed in
the future, or who approaches people to ask for, request, or seek monetary
contributions, donations, or financial support for a commercial enterprise, or
in furtherance of a for-profit enterprise, venture, or business.
   “STRUCTURE.” Any residential structure of any type located in the city.
   “TRANSIENT MERCHANT, ITINERANT MERCHANT, TRANSIENT VENDOR, ITINERANT
VENDOR.” Any person, whether as owner, agent or consignee, whether a resident
or not, who engages in a temporary business of selling and delivering goods,
wares and merchandise within the city, and who in the furtherance of such
purpose, hires, leases, uses or occupies any building or other structure,
public rooms in hotels, lodging houses, apartments or a shop or any street
alley or other place within the city, for the exhibition and sales of such
goods, wares and merchandise.
(Ord. 2013-08-02, passed 10-10-13; Am. Ord. 2023-08-02, passed 9-14-23)
§ 112.02 LICENSE REQUIREMENT.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to enter upon residential property
within the city, without being invited to do so by the owners or occupants of
the subject property, in order to peddle and/or solicit city residents by
knocking upon residential doors, or by ringing doorbells, or to otherwise, so
as to cause or attempt to cause residents to open their doors; unless the
person doing the peddling and/or soliciting activity has first registered with
the City Clerk, and received from the City Clerk a license to solicit or
peddle.
   (B)   Any person who is an itinerant merchant, peddler, or solicitor shall
obtain a license before engaging in such activity within the city.
   (C)   The fee for the license required by this chapter shall be fifty
dollars ($50) per company application including up to a maximum of five (5)
solicitors/employees/agents listed in the application. Additional solicitors
listed in the application shall be charged ten dollars ($10) per person.
   (D)   No license issued under this chapter shall be transferable or
assignable.
   (E)   All licenses issued under this chapter shall extend to the end of the
calendar year in which it is issued. Upon expiration of a license, the peddler
or solicitor shall cease and desist all such activities in the city until and
unless a new license is obtained.
   (F)   This chapter prohibits any person who is an itinerant merchant,
peddler, or solicitor from distributing any handbills, advertisements, or
commercially-related solicitation documents without first having obtained a
license from the City Clerk. This chapter is not intended to prevent the lawful
distribution of written materials other than commercial solicitation and
business advertising.
   (G)   Licensed individuals may engage in solicitation, peddling, or
canvassing any day of the week.
(Ord. 2013-08-02, passed 10-10-13; Am. Ord. 2023-08-02, passed 9-14-23; Am.
Ord. 2024-08-01, passed 9-12-24) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.03 EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   Individuals who are not engaged in for-profit, commercial enterprises
shall be exempt from the licensing requirements set forth in this chapter.
These include:
      (1)   Children under eighteen (18) years of age soliciting or peddling on
behalf of a non-profit school, governmental organization, or youth club or
ministry, such as Boy Scouts or Girl Scouts;
      (2)   Persons soliciting on behalf of a non-profit or neighborhood
organization for either donations to or membership in such organization;
      (3)   Persons peddling donated merchandise on behalf of a non-profit
organization where the proceeds of the sale are used for charitable purposes;
      (4)   Persons peddling on behalf of a religious organization where the
proceeds of the sale are used to support such organization or for a charitable
purpose; and
      (5)   Persons engaged in canvassing for religious or political purposes.
   (B)   Individuals who meet the exemptions listed above are not required to
register with the City Clerk and are not required to obtain any license prior
to engaging in solicitations, peddling, or canvassing.
   (C)   Individuals who meet the exemptions listed above may engage in
solicitation, peddling, or canvassing any day of the week.
(Ord. 2013-08-02, passed 10-10-13; Am. Ord. 2023-08-02, passed 9-14-23; Am.
Ord. 2024-08-01, passed 9-12-24)
§ 112.04 APPLICATION PROCEDURE AND CRITERIA.
   (A) All applicants for licenses required by this chapter shall file a
written, sworn application with the Clerk. This application shall be signed by
the applicant if an individual, or by a partner if a partnership, or by the
president or authorized officer of a corporation. Applications should be made
on forms available in the office of the Clerk. The application shall state:
      (1)   The name and address of the applicant, and each person who will be
doing the soliciting or peddling on behalf of the applicant.
      (2)   (a)   The name of the individual having management authority or
supervision of the applicant's business during the time that it is proposed to
be carried on in the city;
         (b)   The local address of such individual;
         (c)   The permanent address of such individual;
         (d)   The capacity in which such individual will act;
      (3)   The name and address of the person, if any, for whose purpose the
business will be carried on, and, if a corporation, the state of incorporation;
      (4)   The time period or periods during which it is proposed to carry on
applicant's business;
      (5)   Whether or not the applicant, and the individuals identified above
have been convicted of any felony offense(s) or misdemeanor offense(s)
involving crimes of fraud, violence, theft or sex-related offense, and, if so,
the nature of each offense and the penalty assessed for each offense. The City
Clerk shall deny the issuance of a license if the applicant, or the individuals
identified as peddling or soliciting for or on behalf of the applicant, have
been convicted of any felony offense(s), or misdemeanor offense(s) involving
crimes of fraud, violence, theft or a sex-related offense specified in state or
federal law.
   (B)   Applicants are responsible for securing, and maintaining in good
standing, all applicable state, and local business licenses necessary to carry
out business within the city, and must show compliance with all city business
and occupational licenses and fees. The City Clerk shall deny the issuance of
any license to an applicant who fails to comply with this provision.
   (C)   The City Clerk shall deny the issuance of any license to an applicant
who fails to fully complete the application form, or provides inaccurate,
false, or incomplete responses on the written application form.
(Ord. 2013-08-02, passed 10-10-13; Am. Ord. 2023-08-02, passed 9-14-23; Am.
Ord. 2024-08-01, passed 9-12-24) )
§ 112.05 STANDARDS FOR APPROVAL/ISSUANCE OF IDENTIFICATION CARDS.
   (A)   Upon receipt of an application which complies with all requirements of
this chapter, the City Clerk shall issue identification cards, identifying each
solicitor, itinerant merchant, or peddler, by name and company or entity that
they represent. Peddlers, itinerant merchants, and solicitors shall carry their
identification card at all times while peddling or soliciting within the city,
and shall show their identification card to residents prior to or simultaneous
with any peddling and/or soliciting activities.
   (B)   The City Administrator, following the procedures set forth in this
chapter, may revoke any registration and/or identification card, or demand its
return from any solicitor, itinerant merchant, or peddler who violates the
terms of this chapter, or makes a misrepresentation, or provides false or
misleading information, on the application, or who ceases to satisfy any of the
criteria required in this chapter.
(Ord. 2013-08-02, passed 10-10-13; Am. Ord. 2023-08-02, passed 9-14-23; Am.
Ord. 2024-08-01, passed 9-12-24)
§ 112.06 NO-KNOCK LIST.
   The city shall establish a voluntary list of addresses to provide any person
or entity licensed pursuant to this chapter. City residents and/or property
owners must affirmatively provide their address to the City Clerk to be added
to this list. Licensees are prohibited from approaching any occupants of a
structure, or knocking on the structure door, of an address specified on such
list for a commercial purpose. It shall also be a violation of this chapter for
any peddler, solicitor, or itinerant merchant to go upon any property that the
owner or resident has posted a “No Soliciting or Peddling” sign.
(Ord. 2023-08-02, passed 9-14-23) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.07 REVOCATION PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Any license or permit granted under this chapter may be revoked by the
City Administrator because of any violation of this chapter, or other city
ordinances, state or federal law, or whenever the licensee ceases to meet the
criteria required in this chapter for a license to solicit or peddle. In the
event that the City Administrator determines that revocation of a license is
warranted, the applicant shall be given notice of the revocation and an
opportunity to contest the revocation. Notice of the revocation shall be given
in writing, setting forth specifically the grounds for the complaint. Such
notice shall be mailed to the licensee at his or her last-known address as
listed on the application. The licensee may contest the revocation by giving
written notice to the City Administrator, within five (5) days of service, of
the intention to contest the revocation of license and listing arguments why
the revocation should be reversed. The licensee shall appear before the City
Administrator on a date and time specified by the City Administrator. The
licensee shall bear the burden of proof to show that the license should not be
revoked. All decisions to revoke a license made by the City Administrator shall
be final.
   (B)   Once the City Administrator has revoked a licensee’s license, he/she
shall immediately cease and desist all soliciting and peddling activities in
the city, and shall cause any peddlers or solicitors under his/her direction,
control, or supervision, to cease and desist all such activity until and unless
the license is re-instated by the City Administrator.
(Ord. 2013-08-02, passed 10-10-13; Am. Ord. 2023-08-02, passed 9-14-23)
§ 112.08 STANDARDS FOR REVOCATION.
   A license granted under this chapter may be revoked for any of the following
reasons:
   (A)   Any fraud or misrepresentation contained in the license application;
   (B)   Any fraud, misrepresentation or false statement made in connection
with the business being conducted under the license;
   (C)   Any violation of this chapter, other city ordinances, state or federal
law;
   (D)   Conviction of the licensee, including all persons who are peddling or
soliciting on behalf of licensee, of any felony offense, or of any misdemeanor
offense involving fraud, violence, theft or a sex-related offense specified in
state or federal law; or
   (E)   Conducting the business licensed in an unlawful manner or in such a
manner as to constitute a menace or threat to the health, safety, or general
welfare of the public.
(Ord. 2013-08-02, passed 10-10-13; Am. Ord. 2023-08-02, passed 9-14-23)
§ 112.09 SERVICE OF PROCESS AND NOTICE.
   (A) Requirements/duties of successful applicant.
      (1) Upon receipt of notice of approval of his application, the applicant
shall file with City Clerk an instrument appointing the City Clerk as his or
her true and lawful agent, with full power and authority to acknowledge service
of process for an on behalf of applicant in respect to any matter arising under
this chapter.
      (2)   Forms for the required statements are available at the City Clerk’s
office. Such form or instrument shall contain recitals to the effect that the
applicant consents and agrees that the service of any notice or process may be
made upon this agent, and when so made shall be taken and held to be as valid
as if personally served upon the applicant, according to the law of this or any
other state, and waiving all claim or right of error by reason of such
acknowledgment.
   (B)   Duty of City Clerk. Immediately upon service of any process upon the
City Clerk under this chapter, the City Clerk shall send, by registered mail, a
copy of the process to the licensee at his or her last-known address or
residence.
(Ord. 2013-08-02, passed 10-10-13; Am. Ord. 2023-08-02, passed 9-14-23)
Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.99 PENALTY.
   Each violation of this chapter shall be classified as a civil offense, for
which the civil fine that may be imposed for each separate violation of this
chapter is hereby established as one hundred dollars ($100) for the first
offense and five hundred dollars ($500) for each subsequent offense within a
rolling one (1) year period; and
   (A)   An enforcement officer may, in lieu of immediately issuing a civil
citation for violation of this chapter, give written or verbal notice that the
violation of this chapter shall be remedied within a specific period of time.
   (B)   Any citation issued pursuant to this chapter may be appealed to the
Crestview Hills Citation Appeals Board.
(Ord. 2013-08-02, passed 10-10-13; Am. Ord. 2023-08-02, passed 9-14-23; Am.
Ord. 2024-08-01, passed 9-12-24)
CHAPTER 113: ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
Section
   
113.01   Definitions
   
113.02   License required
   
113.03   Distilled Spirits and Malt Beverage Administrator
   
113.04   Types of licenses; fees
   
113.05   Issuance of license
   
113.06   Information required in application
   
113.07   Terms of license
   
113.08   Display of license; lost or destroyed license
   
113.09   State license requirement
   
113.10   Hours when sales permitted
   
113.11   Violations of state or federal law
   
113.12   Minors
 
   
113.99   Penalty
§ 113.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   "ALCOHOL." Ethyl alcohol, hydrated oxide of ethyl or spirit of win, from
whatever source or by whatever process it is produced.
   "ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE." Every liquid or solid, whether patented or not,
containing alcohol in an amount in excess of that permitted under KRS 242 and
capable of being consumed by a human being. It includes every spurious or
imitation liquor sold as, or under any name commonly used for, alcoholic
beverages, whether containing alcohol or not. It does not include the following
products if they are unfit for use for beverage purposes: medicinal
preparations manufactured in accordance with formulas prescribed by the United
States pharmacopoeia, national formulary, or the American Institute of
Homeopathy, patented, patent, and proprietary medicines, toilet, medicinal, and
antiseptic preparations solutions, and flavoring extracts and syrups.
   "BUILDING CONTAINING LICENSED PREMISES." The licensed premises themselves
and includes any part of any building in which the premises are contained, and
any part of any other building connected with the building by direct access or
by a common entrance.
   "CITY DISTILLED SPIRITS AND MALT BEVERAGE ADMINISTRATOR." The City
Administrator for the City of Crestview Hills.
   "CONVICTED" or "CONVICTION." A finding of guilt resulting from a plea of
guilty, the decision of a court, or the finding of a jury, irrespective of a
pronouncement of judgment or the suspension of the judgment.
   "DISTILLED SPIRITS" or "SPIRITS." Any product capable of being consumed by a
human being which contains alcohol in excess of the amount permitted by
distilling mixed with water or other substances in solution, except wine.
   "DISTRIBUTOR." Any person who distributes malt beverages for the purpose of
being sold at retail.
   "LICENSE." Any license issued pursuant to this chapter.
   "LICENSEE." Any person to whom a license has been issued, pursuant to this
chapter.
   "MALT BEVERAGE." Any fermented undistilled alcoholic beverage of any name or
description, manufactured from malt wholly or in part, or from any substitute
for malt.
   "PREMISES." The land and building in and upon which any business regulated
by alcoholic beverage statutes is operated or carried on. It shall not include
as a single unit two separate businesses as a enterprise of one owner on the
same lot or tract of land, in the same or in different buildings.
   "RETAIL SALE." Any sale where delivery is made in Kentucky to any person not
holding a license.
   "RETAILER." Any person who sells at retail any alcoholic beverage for the
sale of which a license is required.
   "SALE." Any transfer, exchange or barter for consideration, including all
sales made by any person, whether principal, proprietor, agent, servant, or
employee of any alcoholic beverage.
   "SELL." Solicit or receive an order for keep or expose for sale, keep with
intent to sell, and the delivery of any alcoholic beverage.
   "WHOLESALE SALE." A sale to any person for the purpose of resale.
   "WHOLESALER." Any person who sells at wholesale any alcoholic beverage for
sale of which a license is required, except a distiller, rectifier, brewer, or
vintner.
   "WINE." The product of the normal alcoholic fermentation on the juices of
fruits, with the usual cellar treatment and necessary additions to correct
defects due to climatic, saccharine, and seasonal conditions. It includes
champagne and sparkling and fortified wine of an alcoholic content not to
exceed 24% by volume.
(Ord. 2009-4-1, passed 5-14-09; Am. Ord. 2013-09-01, passed 10-10-13)
§ 113.02 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   No person, firm, or corporation shall do any act authorized by any kind of
license provide for by this chapter with respect to the storage, sale,
purchase, transporting, or other traffic in alcoholic beverages or other
traffic in alcoholic beverages unless the person, firm or corporation holds the
kind of license from the city which authorizes such act. No person, firm, or
corporation which conducts a place of business patronized by the public and
which does not hold a license to sell distilled spirits, and wine or malt
beverages shall permit any person to sell, barter, loan, or give away, or drink
distilled spirits, wine, or malt beverages on the premises of his place of
business.
(Ord. 2009-4-1, passed 5-14-09)
§ 113.03 DISTILLED SPIRITS AND MALT BEVERAGE ADMINISTRATOR.
   (A)   The City Council hereby creates the post of City Distilled Spirits and
Malt Beverage Administrator.
   (B)   The duties of the Distilled Spirits and Malt Beverage Administrator
shall be to see that all applications and licensees conform to the duties,
obligations, and qualifications imposed upon them by Kentucky Revised Statutes.
   (C)   The fee for the services of the City Distilled Spirits and Malt
Beverages Administrator is fixed at one hundred dollars ($100) per annum.
(Ord. 1981-2-2, passed 3-12-81)
                              
Cross-reference:
   City Administrator as Distilled Spirits and Malt Beverage Administrator, see
§
30.27
§ 113.04 TYPES OF LICENSES; FEES.
   (A) The following kinds of distilled spirits and wine licenses and malt
beverage licenses may be issued by the city, and the fees for each license
shall be:
Wholesaler's Distilled Spirits and Wine License                     $3.000.00
Quota Retail Package License                                        $300.00
Quota Retail Drink License                                          $300.00
Nonquota Type 2 Retail Drink License (includes distilled spirits,   $300.00
wine, and malt beverages)
Special Temporary License                                           $50.00
Distilled Spirits and Wine Special Temporary Auction License Per    $100.00
Event
Nonquota Type 3 Retail Drink License (includes distilled spirits,   $300.00
wine, and malt beverages)
Special Sunday Retail Drink License                                 $100.00
Caterer's License                                                   $400.00
Nonquota Type 1 Retail Drink License (includes distilled spirits,   $1,000.00
wine, and malt beverages)
Bottling House or Bottling House Storage License                    $1,000.00
Limited Restaurant License (includes distilled spirits, wine, and   $300.00
malt beverages)
Limited Golf Course License (includes distilled spirits, wine, and  $300.00
malt beverages)
Malt Beverage Microbrewery License                                  $300.00
Malt Beverage Distributor's License                                 $400.00
Nonquota Type 4 Retail Malt Beverage Drink License, Nonquota Retail $100.00
Malt Beverage Package License
 
 
   (B)   Issuance date for new licenses. The issuance date and due date for
fees for all annual licenses shall be as follows:
      (1)   All new licenses shall be issued when approved under the provisions
of this chapter and the fee shall be due at the time of issuance.
      (2)   The issuance date for all such licenses for which, as of the
effective date of November 1, 2013, the licensee holds a valid corresponding
state license, shall be November 1. The license fee shall be due at the time of
issuance and be effective for a 12 month period.
      (3)   Applications for renewal of annual licenses shall be filed with the
City's Distilled Spirits and Malt Beverage Administrator not later than 15 days
prior to the issuance date.
   (C)   If the applicant for any city alcoholic beverage license is indebted
to the city for any reason such as unpaid taxes, assessments, fees or fines, or
similar obligations, the license applied for shall not be issued until all such
indebtedness, together with any penalty or interest associated therewith, shall
have been paid in full.
   (D)   If any section, paragraph or clause of this section is held by a
proper Court to be invalid, such invalidity shall not affect the remaining
sections, paragraphs or clauses, it being hereby expressly declared that the
reminder of this section would have been passed despite such invalidity.
(Ord. 2009-4-1, passed 5-14-09; Am. Ord. 2013-09-01, passed 10-10-13)
                              
Statutory reference:
   City licenses; fees, see KRS 243.070
§ 113.05 ISSUANCE OF LICENSE.
   Application for the issuance or renewal of all licenses provided for in this
chapter shall be made to the City Distilled Spirits and Malt Beverage
Administrator on forms as may be prescribed by the City Distilled Spirits and
Malt Beverage Administrator. Licenses shall be issued or renewed and fees
collected by the Finance Department. No license shall be issued in such form as
may be prescribed by the City Distilled Spirits and Malt Beverage
Administrator. All license fees collected pursuant hereto shall be placed in
the general fund of the city.
(Ord. 2009-4-1, passed 5-14-09)
§ 113.06 INFORMATION REQUIRED IN APPLICATION.
   (A)   All applications for licenses shall be on forms furnished by the city.
They shall be verified and shall set forth in detail such information
concerning the applicant and the premises for which the license is sought as
the City Distilled Spirits and Malt Beverage Administrator may require. In
addition to other information the City Distilled Spirits and Malt Beverage
Administrator may require, every application for the issuance of a license
shall contain the following information, given under oath.
      (1)   The name, age, address, and residence of each applicant, and, if
there is more than one and they are partners, the partnership name and address.
      (2)   The name and address of each person interested or to become
interested in the business for which the license is sought, together with the
nature of that interest, and, if the applicant is a corporation, the names,
addresses, and ages of each officer, director, and managerial employee, and the
state under the laws of which the corporate applicant is incorporated.
      (3)   The premises to be licensed, stating the street and number, if the
premises have a street number, and otherwise a description that will reasonably
indicate the location of the premises. The applicant shall also state the
nature of his interest in the premises, and the name, age, and address of any
other person, either as a principal or associate, who is interested with the
applicant either in the premises or in the business to be licensed.
      (4)   A statement that neither the applicant nor any other person
referred to in this section has been convicted of any misdemeanor directly or
indirectly attributable to the use, manufacture, sale of, or traffic in
alcoholic beverages, or any felony within two (2) years preceding the
application, and that he has not had any license that has been issued to him
under any alcoholic beverage statute revoked for cause within two years prior
to the date of the application.
   (B)   If, after a license has been issued there is a change in any of the
facts required to be set forth in the application, a verified supplemental
statement in writing giving notice of the change shall be filed with the City
Distilled Spirits and Malt Beverage Administrator within ten (10) days after
the change.
   (C)   In giving any notice or taking any action in reference to a license,
the City Distilled Spirits and Malt Beverage Administrator may rely upon the
information furnished in the application or in the supplemental statement
connected with the application. This information, as against the licenses or
applicant, shall be conclusively presumed to be correct.
(Ord. 2009-4-1, passed 5-14-09)
§ 113.07 TERMS OF LICENSE.
   (A)   All licenses issued hereunder shall expire on November 30 of each
year. The renewal of any alcoholic beverage license shall not be construed to
be a waiver or condonation of any violation which occurred prior to the renewal
and shall not prevent subsequent proceedings against the licensee therefore.
   (B)   When any person applies for a license authorized to be issued
hereunder after December 1 of any year, he or she shall be charged, if the
license is issued, an amount equal to as many twelfths of the annual license
fee as there are calendar months, including the month in which the license is
granted, until the following December 1, except that no license shall be issued
for a shorter period than six (6) months. No abatement of license fees shall be
permitted to any person who held a license of the same kind of the same
premises in the preceding license period and who was actually doing business
under the license during the last month of the preceding license period.
(Ord. 2009-4-1, passed 5-14-09; Am. Ord. 2013-09-01, passed 10-10-13; Am. Ord.
2017-07-01, passed 8-11-16)
§ 113.08 DISPLAY OF LICENSE: LOST OR DESTROYED LICENSE.
   (A)   Before commencing or doing any business for the time for which a
license has been issued, the license shall be posted and at all times displayed
in the conspicuous place in the room or principal room where the business is
carried on, so that all persons visiting the place may readily see the license.
   (B)   No licensee shall post the license or permit it to be posted upon
premises other than the licensed premises, or upon premises where traffic in
alcoholic beverages is being carried on by any person other than the licensee,
or knowingly deface, destroy, or alter the license in any respect.
   (C)   Whenever a license is lost or destroyed without the fault of the
licensee or his or her agents or employees, a duplicate license shall be issued
upon proof of loss satisfactory to the City Distilled Spirits and Malt Beverage
Administrator and upon payment of a fee of one dollar ($1).
(Ord. 2009-4-1, passed 5-14-09)
§ 113.09 STATE LICENSE REQUIREMENT.
   (A)   No license provided for hereunder shall be issued, renewed, or
transferred to any person, firm or corporation until the person, firm or
corporation shall have obtained the issuance, renewal, or transfer of the state
license corresponding thereto. In each instance the licensed premises covered
by the city license must be the same as the licensed premises covered by the
corresponding state license.
   (B)   The city license issued to any person, firm, or corporation shall
remain valid only so long as the state license corresponding thereto, issued to
the person, firm, or corporation shall be valid. Any revocation, suspension,
nonrenewal, or other action which makes the state license null and void shall
operate to revoke, suspend, make nonrenewable or null and void the city license
corresponding thereto. Any city license which is revoked, suspended, not
renewed, or so made invalid shall be immediately surrendered to the City
Distilled Spirits and Malt Beverage Administrator.
(Ord. 2009-4-1, passed 5-14-09)
§ 113.10 HOURS WHEN SALES PERMITTED.
   (A)   A licensee may sell alcoholic beverages, or do any act authorized by
the licensee’s license with respect to the sale of alcoholic beverages, during
the following hours:
      (1)   Monday through Saturday: 6:00 a.m. to 2:30 a.m. the following day;
and
      (2)   Sunday: 6:00 a.m. to 2:30 a.m., Monday. Sunday sales are only
permitted if the licensee has obtained a state and city special Sunday retail
drink license, or other applicable license.
   (B)   If a licensee provides a separate department within his or her
licensed premises capable of being locked and closed, within which is kept all
stocks of alcoholic beverages and all fixtures and apparatus connected with his
or her business as a licensee, and this department is kept locked during all
times when his or her premises are open and he or she is not authorized to sell
alcoholic beverages hereunder, he or she shall be deemed to have complied with
this section.
(Ord. 2009-4-1, passed 5-14-09; Am. Ord. 2013-09-01, passed 10-10-13; Am. Ord.
2021-7-3, passed 8-12-21; Am. Ord. 2023-12-01, passed 12-14-23)
                              
Statutory reference:
   See KRS 244.290(6)
§ 113.11 VIOLATIONS OF STATE OR FEDERAL LAW.
   Nothing herein shall be construed to condone the violation by any person,
firm or corporation within the city of any federal or state statute, law, or
regulation, now, heretofore or hereafter in effect applicable to any person,
firm or corporation relating to the storage, sale, purchase, transporting, or
other traffic in alcoholic beverages. Any violation of any statute, law, or
regulation shall be deemed a violation of this chapter. If any clerk, agent,
servant, or employee of any licensee shall violate any provision of this
chapter, or such statute, law, or regulation, the violation shall be a
violation by the licensee. Any license issued hereunder may be revoked by the
City Distilled Spirits and Malt Beverage Administrator if the licensee violates
any provision of this chapter or any provision of any statute, law, or
regulation.
(Ord. 2009-4-1, passed 5-14-09)
§ 113.12 MINORS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation who is the owner,
occupant or who is otherwise in possession of any property located in the city
to knowingly allow any other person under the age of twenty-one (21) years,
except members of the immediate family (spouse or children) of such owner,
occupant or possessor, to remain on such property while in the possession of
any alcoholic beverage or while consuming any alcoholic beverage.
(Ord. 2009-4-1, passed 5-14-09)
§ 113.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Pursuant to KRS 83A.065(2), the offense of violating any provision of
this chapter is designated as a Class A misdemeanor and a criminal fine not to
exceed the amount set forth in KRS 534.040(2)(a), or a term of imprisonment not
to exceed the periods set forth in KRS 532.090(1), or both, may be imposed on
any person, firm or corporation who, acting by himself, herself or through
another, directly or indirectly, commits the offense.
   (B)   All ordinances, laws, or resolutions of the city relating to alcoholic
beverage control inconsistent with these provisions are repealed. However, the
repeal of any ordinance, law, or resolution shall not prevent the prosecution,
conviction, and imposition of penalties after the date of passage thereof of
any person, firm, or corporation which violated such ordinance, law, or
resolution prior to the date of passage thereof.
(Ord. 2009-4-1, passed 5-14-09; Am. Ord. 2023-12-01, passed 12-14-23)
CHAPTER 114: AMUSEMENTS
§ 114.01 MINORS RESTRICTED FROM OPERATING AMUSEMENT DEVICES.
   The number of pinball machines, coin operated amusement devices, and
electro-mechanical pinball machines permitted at any one location within the
city limits shall not exceed the total number of five (5). Of the total number
of five (5) such devices permitted, no more than two (2) of such devices shall
be of the electro-mechanical pinball machine type.
(Ord. 1981-12-2, passed 1-14-82) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.02 NUMBER OF AMUSEMENT DEVICES RESTRICTED.
   No owner, lessor, lessee, servant, agent, nor any person, firm, corporation,
or entity shall permit any person under sixteen (16) years of age to play,
operate, assist, manage or attempt to play, operate, assist, or manage any
coin-operated device or machine including electro-mechanical pinball machines,
commonly denominated pinball, or device or similar contrivance, regardless of
label or name there affixed within the confines of the city.
(Ord. 1981-12-2, passed 1-14-82) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.99 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm, corporation, or entity who is found in violation of the
provisions of this chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be fined
not more than five hundred dollars ($500.00). Each day of a continuing
violation shall be deemed a separate offense.
(Ord. 1981-12-2, passed 1-14-82)
CHAPTER 115: GARAGE SALES
§ 115.01 DEFINITION.
   "GARAGE SALE" as used in this chapter refers to a sale from a residence or
residential property of personal property. A yard, patio, or driveway sale is
included within the definition of "GARAGE SALE." The term "GARAGE SALE" does
not include the mere incidental sale of one or two items of personal property
when such sale is not part of a general sale of a number of items of personal
property.
(Ord. 1986-9-1, passed 12-11-86)
§ 115.02 COMPLIANCE REQUIRED.
   (A)   The conduct of general retail sales or commercial activities in
residential areas is, except as is otherwise expressly authorized under this
chapter, prohibited. Garage sales are permitted only insofar as they are
conducted consistent with the limitations set forth herein.
   (B)   Garage sales shall be conducted in compliance with all laws,
ordinances, rules, and regulations not in conflict herewith; however, no
occupational license shall be required therefor.
(Ord. 1986-9-1, passed 12-11-86) Penalty, see §
115.99
§ 115.03 PERMIT REQUIRED; CONDITIONS; POSTING OF PERMIT.
   (A)   No garage sale may be conducted within the city without a permit
having been first issued for such sale by the City Clerk. Application for such
permits shall be made at least two days prior to the date of the sale. No sales
shall be permitted on Sunday. The permit shall set forth and restrict the time
and location of the garage sale. No more than two such permits may be issued to
one residence or family or household during any calendar year. Such permits
shall be limited in time to no more than the daylight hours of two consecutive
days.
   (B)   Prior to issuance of any garage sale permit the person conducting such
sale shall file a written statement with the City Clerk setting forth the
following information:
      (1)   The person's interest in the residential property (ownership,
current lessee or such other control as the person may have).
      (2)   An affirmative statement that the property to be sold was neither
acquired or consigned for the purposes of resale.
   (C)   The permit required by this chapter shall be prominently displayed at
the sale.
(Ord. 1986-9-1, passed 12-11-86) Penalty, see §
115.99
§ 115.04 SIGNS.
   One sign of not more than four (4) square feet shall be permitted to be
displayed on the property of the residence where a garage sale is being
conducted pursuant to a permit issued under this chapter. Such signs shall be
displayed only during the times of the sales as delineated on the permit. In no
case shall the sign be placed on any property other than the property of the
residence to which the permit has been issued or the public right-of-way.
(Ord. 1986-9-1, passed 12-11-86) Penalty, see §
115.99
§ 115.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who conducts or aids in conducting any garage sale not in
accordance with the provisions of this chapter shall be held in violation of
this Code of Ordinances and shall, upon conviction, be guilty of a violation
and shall be fined not less than ten dollars ($10) nor more than one hundred
dollars ($100). Each day that a violation continues or exists shall constitute
separate offense.
(Ord. 1986-9-1, passed 12-11-86)
CHAPTER 116: FINANCIAL INSTITUTION FRANCHISE AND LOCAL DEPOSIT TAX
§ 116.01 IMPOSITION OF TAX.
   There is hereby imposed on all "financial institutions", as defined in KRS
Chapter 136, located within the corporate limits of the city for the 1996 tax
year and all subsequent years, a franchise tax at the rate of .017% on all
deposits, as defined in KRS Chapter 136, maintained by such financial
institutions.
(Ord. 1997-2-1, passed 2-13-97)
§ 116.02 TAX DUE.
   (A)   For transition purposes, the 1996 tax year will be treated differently
in terms of collection of taxes than for all subsequent years. For the 1996
year, the following timetable is hereby established. The city will issue tax
bills to financial institutions no later than May 1, 1997. Payment of the tax
shall be due with a two percent (2%) discount by May 31, 1997, or without the
discount by June 30, 1997.
   (B)   For all years subsequent to the 1996 tax year, the following timetable
is hereby established. The city will issue tax bills to financial institutions
no later than December 1 of each year. Payment of the tax shall be due with a
two percent (2%) discount by December 31st of each year, or without the
discount by January 31st of the next calendar year.
(Ord. 1997-2-1, passed 2-13-97)
§ 116.03 LIEN.
   The city shall have a lien for taxes on the property assessed for taxes to
the extent allowed under KRS 134.420.
(Ord. 1997-2-1, passed 2-13-97)
§ 116.04 USE OF TAX.
   All moneys collected pursuant to these sections shall be paid into the
general fund of the city to be used for the payment of proper expenditures as
determined by the City Council.
(Ord. 1997-2-1, passed 2-13-97)
§ 116.99 PENALTY.
   All taxes due in accordance with these sections which are not paid before
June 30, 1997, for tax year 1996, or which are not paid before January 31st,
for all subsequent years' tax years, shall be deemed delinquent and shall be
subject to a penalty of fifteen percent (15%) and shall bear interest at the
rate of eighteen percent (18%) per annum.
(Ord. 1997-2-1, passed 2-13-97)
CHAPTER 117: RENTAL PROPERTIES
Section
   
117.01   General Provisions
   
117.02   Definitions
   
117.03   Rental property registration
   
117.04   Licensing and licensing requirements
   
117.05   Vacation of affected rental dwellings
   
117.06   Civil action to enforce
   
117.07   Appeals
 
   
117.99   Penalty
§ 117.01 GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Effective January 1, 2017, this chapter shall apply to all RENTAL
PROPERTIES as defined herein, including single-family residential dwellings and
dwelling units in otherwise owner-occupied dwellings, including, but not
limited to, single-family residences, boarding houses, condominiums,
townhouses, and leasehold cooperatives, and any multi-family dwelling that has
less than three (3) separate rental dwelling units.
   (B)   The requirement to register rental properties shall not apply to
rental dwellings owned or operated by governmental agencies as public housing.
   (C)   The provisions hereof shall not apply to licensed hotels or motels,
bed and breakfast establishments, jails, convents, monasteries, nursing homes,
board and care homes, parsonages. parish houses, rectories, hospitals, or
apartment buildings.
(Ord. 2016-03-01, passed 4-14-16)
§ 117.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   “APARTMENT or APARTMENTS.” Any units or structure(s) defined as apartment or
apartment building under the City of Crestview Hills’ Zoning Code.
   “OWNER.” Any person who, alone or jointly or severally with others:
      (1)   Has legal title, to any premise, building, or building unit, with
or without accompanying actual possession thereof; or
      (2)   Has charge/care, or control of any premise, building unit, as owner
or agent of the owner, or any executor, administrator, trustee, or guardian of
the estate of the owner.
   “PERSON.” Any individual, firm, corporation, limited liability company,
association, partnership, cooperative, or similar entity.
   “RENTAL DWELLING.” Any residential structure or residential or commercial
building, including mobile homes, containing one or more units, which the owner
either actually rents or leases or intends to rent or lease to the public for
residential purposes, excluding those buildings not covered by this chapter.
   “RENTAL DWELLING UNIT.” A room or group of rooms located within a rental
dwelling and forming a single habitable unit.
   “RENTAL PROPERTY.” A parcel of land located within the city that contains
one or more rental dwellings. For purposes of this chapter, what constitutes a
parcel of land shall be determined in the same manner as parcels are determined
for purposes of city property taxes.
(Ord. 2016-03-01, passed 4-14-16)
§ 117.03 RENTAL PROPERTY REGISTRATION.
   (A)   The city shall maintain a registry of rental properties located within
the city. No person shall rent, offer for rent, or receive rental income from
any rental dwelling or rental dwelling unit unless the owner has first
registered the rental property where the rental dwelling's located in
accordance with this chapter.
   (B)   The owner of each rental property located within the city shall
register the rental property with the City Clerk on a form provided by the
city. After initially registering a rental property, the owner of each
registered rental property shall re-register the rental property annually no
later than January 31 of each year. The owner of a registered property that is
no longer offered for rent shall request in writing that the property be
removed from the city’s rental property registry.
   (C)   Each rental property owner shall provide the following information
upon registration and re-registration:
      (1)   The street address of the rental property;
      (2)   The number of rental dwelling units at the rental property;
      (3)   The name and address of the rental property owner(s);
      (4)   Contact information for a responsible party, who shall be a natural
person, which shall include:
         (a)   The responsible party’s name;
         (b)   The responsible party’s mailing address;
         (c)   The responsible party’s telephone number(s);
         (d)   The responsible party’s email address; and
         (e)   The responsible party’s fax number, if one exists; and
      (5)   All contact information required by division (4) for a person
authorized to make or order repairs or service in order to remedy violations of
state or city codes at the rental property, if different from the responsible
party.
   (D)   The owner of each registered rental property shall update any
information provided to the city within thirty (30) days of any change.
   (E)   In order to compensate the city for its costs in administering the
rental property registration program, all rental properties shall be subject to
an annual registration fee of fifteen dollars ($15.00), which shall be payable
at the time of registration or re-registration. Any unpaid registration fee
shall be added to the city property tax bill for the rental property. Any owner
who fails to pay a fee added to the rental property’s city tax bill by the due
date for city property taxes shall be assessed a late fee of fifteen dollars
($15.00) for each month within the calendar year that the registration fee
remains unpaid. Any unpaid registration fees and/or late fees shall be added to
city property tax bills in subsequent years.
   (F)   Registration under this chapter is nontransferable. A new owner of a
rental property shall register the rental property within thirty (30) days of
acquiring title or other legal right of possession.
   (G)   Upon fulfillment of the registration application and payment of
registration fee, and compliance with licensing requirements set forth in §
117.04, the applicant shall be issued a license for the one (1) year period,
which is non-assignable and non-transferrable.
(Ord. 2016-03-01, passed 4-14-16)
§ 117.04 LICENSING AND LICENSING REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   The following minimum standards and conditions shall be met in order
to obtain and maintain a rental dwelling license:
      (1)   The rental dwelling shall comply with all applicable provisions of
the Kentucky Building Code, Kentucky Standards of Safety, Nuisance Code,
Property Code and Zoning Ordinance.
      (2)   The rental dwelling shall not exceed the maximum number of units as
permitted under the Zoning Code.
      (3)   The rental dwelling shall not within the preceding twelve (12)
month period have had four (4) or more Building Code, Zoning Code, or Nuisance
Code violations, or any combination thereof in the preceding twelve (12) month
period.
      (4)   The rental dwelling shall not be overcrowded or illegally occupied
in violation of any applicable code.
      (5)   The owner of the rental dwelling shall not be delinquent in the
payment of any financial obligation owed to the city, included, but not limited
to, occupational license taxes or other taxes, liens, and/or inspection fees.
   (B)   Failure to comply with any of the city, state, or Federal standards
and conditions shall be adequate grounds for denial, refusal to renew,
revocation or suspension of any rental dwelling license following the
procedures established by this chapter.
(Ord. 2016-03-01, passed 4-14-16)
§ 117.05 VACATION OF AFFECTED RENTAL DWELLINGS.
   When any rental dwelling license has been denied, suspended, revoked, or the
property owner has failed to apply for or renew, or register the property, the
City Administrator shall order the rental dwelling or rental dwelling unit
vacated, giving the tenants thereof a reasonable time to arrange for new
housing, not to exceed sixty (60) days. No rental dwelling unit shall be rented
again until the rental dwelling property owner/license holder is properly
licensed.
(Ord. 2016-03-01, passed 4-14-16)
§ 117.06 CIVIL ACTION TO ENFORCE.
   (A)   Civil action may be commenced by the City Attorney to enforce any
provision of this chapter, including, but not limited to, injunctive relief to
compel the vacating of the premises and/or to prohibit the renting out of a
dwelling unit which has not been properly registered, damages for past due
rental fees, fines, penalties and interest. In addition to injunction and/or
damages, the city may also recover from the dwelling unit owner all legal
costs, fees, and attorney fees attendant with commencing civil action to
enforce this chapter.
   (B)   Any civil action to enforce this chapter shall be brought in the
Kenton Circuit Court.
(Ord. 2016-03-01, passed 4-14-16)
§ 117.07 APPEALS.
   (A)   Any rental dwelling property owner/license holder who is denied a
license, or whose license has been suspended or revoked by the City
Administrator, may appeal that decision to the Mayor. The Mayor may affirm the
appealed action; reverse the appealed action; and/or modify the appealed action
by reversing with conditions or granting an extension of time for performance
of any act required where there is undue hardship connected with the
performance of any act required by this chapter.
   (B)   The decision of the Mayor shall be reduced to writing and shall be
final. The written decision shall be mailed by certified mail to the appellant.
Any aggrieved party to a final decision may appeal within thirty (30) days of
the date of the issuance thereof to the Kenton Circuit Court.
(Ord. 2016-03-01, passed 4-14-16)
§ 117.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter shall be deemed
guilty of a Class B misdemeanor and imposition of a civil penalty of fifty
dollars ($50.00) per day for each day the property is in violation of the
chapter. Each day of violation constitutes a separate offense.
   (B)   The city shall possess a lien on property for all fines, penalties,
charges, past-due amounts, fees, attorney fees, and all other reasonable costs
associated with enforcing this chapter, and the placing of a lien on a parcel
of real property pursuant to this code. The lien shall be superior to and have
priority over all other liens filed subsequently, except state, county, school
board and city taxes.
   (C)   Failure to register property and pay the registration fee in
accordance with this chapter, or revocation, suspension, or denial of said
registration license, may constitute grounds for denial of or revocation of any
and all other licenses and privileges to do business in the city, including,
but not limited to, the occupational license.
(Ord. 2016-03-01, passed 4-14-16)
CHAPTER 118: SHORT TERM RENTAL PROPERTIES
Section
   
118.01   Definitions
   
118.02   General provisions
   
118.03   Short term rental registration required
   
118.04   Responsible party
   
118.05   General requirements
   
118.06   Maximum occupancy
   
118.07   Maximum rental days
   
118.08   Payments of taxes required
   
118.09   Complaints
 
   
118.99   Penalty
§ 118.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   “CITY.” The City of Crestview Hills.
   “CITY ADMINISTRATOR.” The City of Crestview Hills City Administrator or his
or her designee.
   “DWELLING UNIT.” A detached single-family dwelling, attached single-family
dwelling, or single unit within a multiple-family dwelling.
   “HOST.” Any person who is the owner of record of residential real property
who offers a dwelling unit, or portion thereof, for short term rental.
   “HOSTING PLATFORM.” A website, mobile application, or other online platform
that generally allows an owner or tenant to advertise a dwelling unit and
provide a means for potential transient guests to arrange short term rental and
payment.
   “OWNER-OCCUPIED PROPERTY.” A parcel of real property and accompanying
dwelling unit in which the title is held by one or more persons who maintain
residence at the property for at least six (6) months and one (1) day each
calendar year.
   “SHORT TERM RENTAL.” A dwelling unit that is rented, leased, or otherwise
assigned for a tenancy of 30 or fewer consecutive days. This term does not
include hotels, motels, extended stay lodging facilities, or bed and breakfast
inns.
   “TRANSIENT GUEST.” A person or persons who enters into a contractual
arrangement with a host whereby the person or persons pays rent to the host, or
to a person designated by the host to receive rent, including through a hosting
platform, in exchange for occupancy of a short term rental for a period of less
than 30 consecutive days.
(Ord. 2019-06-01, passed 7-11-19)
§ 118.02 GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Effective January 1, 2020, no person shall rent, offer for rent, list
on any hosting platform, or receive rental income from any short term rental
unless the host has first registered the short term rental in accordance with
this chapter.
   (B)   This chapter shall apply to all short term rentals as defined herein,
including those short term rentals operated prior to the effective date. This
shall include single-family residential dwellings and dwelling units in
otherwise owner-occupied dwellings, including, but not limited to, single
family residences, condominiums, townhouses, and multi-family dwellings.
   (C)   The provisions herein shall not apply to licensed hotels or motels,
bed and breakfast establishments, jails, convents, monasteries, or nursing
homes.
   (D)   No property shall be registered or used as a short-term rental unless
it is an owner-occupied property.
(Ord. 2019-06-01, passed 7-11-19) Penalty, see §
118.99
§ 118.03 SHORT TERM RENTAL REGISTRATION REQUIRED.
   (A)   All owners of real property that intend to utilize their property as a
short term rental shall obtain a permit from the City Administrator. The owner
shall complete a registration form which shall, at a minimum, include the
following:
      (1)   The name, address, telephone number, email address, or any other
pertinent contact information necessary to provide access to the host;
      (2)   The name and contact information of a person residing within 25
miles of the short term rental that shall be responsible for addressing any
safety or maintenance concerns; and
      (3)   The physical address of the short term rental, and unit number, if
applicable.
   (B)   Registrations shall be renewed annually on or before February 1.
   (C)   In order to compensate the city for its costs in administering the
short term rental registration program, all rental properties shall be subject
to an annual registration fee of $15, which shall be paid by the host to the
city with the host’s registration form. New registrations obtained after July 1
of each year shall be prorated to $7.50 for the remainder of the year.
   (D)   Registration under this chapter is nontransferable. A new owner of a
short term rental property shall file a new registration prior to offering the
property for short term rental.
(Ord. 2019-06-01, passed 7-11-19)
§ 118.04 RESPONSIBLE PARTY.
   The host shall be responsible for the short term rental’s compliance with
the city’s Code of Ordinances, the city‘s Zoning Ordinance, all adopted
building and fire codes, and all other laws and regulations.
(Ord. 2019-06-01, passed 7-11-19)
§ 118.05 GENERAL REQUIREMENTS.
   The following general requirements shall apply to all short term rentals
within the city:
   (A)   Proof of a current insurance covering fire hazards and general
liability shall be presented annually to the City Administrator with the annual
registration. Liability insurance shall have limits of not less than
$1,000,000. This insurance coverage shall be continuous during periods of short
term rental.
   (B)   Owners of real property who register their property for short term
rental shall notify all adjoining property owners of the registration.
   (C)   All short term rental occupants shall abide by all applicable noise,
nuisance, and waste restrictions of the city.
   (D)   The short term rental unit shall have approved smoke alarms meeting
underwriters laboratory (UL) standards in the following locations:
      (1)   All sleeping rooms.
      (2)   Every room in the path of the means of egress from a sleeping area
to the
main exit.
      (3)   Each story, including basements.
   (E)   No food shall be prepared or served by the owner or responsible party
to the transient guests.
   (F)   Contact information for the host shall be conspicuously posted within
the short term rental unit. This shall include names and phone numbers that can
be reached 24 hours per day, seven days per week for the entire duration of the
rental period.
(Ord. 2019-06-01, passed 7-11-19)
§ 118.06 MAXIMUM OCCUPANCY.
   (A)   The maximum number of occupants permitted within a short term rental
at any time shall be ten occupants.
   (B)   No host shall simultaneously rent to more than one party under
separate contracts.
   (C)   The maximum occupancy permitted by this section shall be conspicuously
posted within the short term rental unit.
(Ord. 2019-06-01, passed 7-11-19)
§ 118.07 MAXIMUM RENTAL DAYS.
   No host shall rent his, her, or its short term rental for more than 30 days
per calendar year. The allocation of days shall be at the discretion of the
host, provided that no short term rental shall be for a period of less than 24
hours.
(Ord. 2019-06-01, passed 7-11-19) Penalty, see §
118.99
§ 118.08 PAYMENT OF TAXES REOUIRED.
   (A)   All hosts shall obtain a city occupational license prior to listing
his, her, or its property for short term rental.
   (B)   The host shall be responsible for payment of all transient room taxes
and occupational license taxes.
   (C)   Taxes may be collected and paid by the hosting platform on behalf of
the host if the hosting platform has entered into a tax collection agreement
with the relevant taxing authority.
(Ord. 2019-06-01, passed 7-11-19)
§ 118.09 COMPLAINTS.
   The following regulations shall apply to the administration of complaints
related to the short term rental property:
   (A)   Upon the filing of three or more complaints within the same calendar
year regarding the short term rental unit, the city shall notify the registrant
of such complaints.
   (B)   If the city determines that violations of this section or any other
ordinance or law relating to the short term rental have occurred, the right of
operate the short term rental may be revoked by the City Administrator. Before
any revocation action is taken, the City Administrator shall give the real
property owner 15 days’ written notice of the alleged violations and an
opportunity to respond.
   (C)   The real property owner may appeal the revocation of the short term
rental registration to the Mayor. The Mayor shall reduce his or her decision to
writing.
(Ord. 2019-06-01, passed 7-11-19)
§ 118.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter shall be subject
to a civil penalty of $25 per day for each day the property is in violation of
the ordinance. Each day of violation constitutes a separate offense.
   (B)   The city shall possess a lien on property for all civil fines,
penalties, charges, past due amounts, fees, attorney fees, and all other
reasonable costs associated with enforcing this chapter, and the placing of a
lien on a parcel of real property pursuant to this code. The lien shall be
superior to and have priority over all other liens filed subsequently except
state, county, school board, and city taxes.
   (C)   Failure to register property and pay the registration fee in
accordance with this chapter, or revocation, suspension, or denial of said
registration license, may constitute grounds for denial of or revocation of any
and all other licenses and privileges to do business in the city, including,
but not limited to, the occupational license.
   (D)   The remedies and penalties provided herein are not to be deemed
exclusive. They shall be in addition to and do not supersede or preempt other
remedies such as condemnation, written violation orders and warnings,
citations, nuisance code violation remedies, and the like. Further, the
remedies herein do not supersede or affect the legal rights and remedies
provided under the law to the tenants vis-a-vis the landlord in any short term
rental dwelling or unit therein.
(Ord. 2019-06-01, passed 7-11-19)
CHAPTER 119: MEDICINAL CANNABIS
Section
   
119.01   Definitions
   
119.02   Sale of medicinal cannabis and operation of all medicinal cannabis
businesses permitted
   
119.03   Hours of operation
   
119.04   Use of revenue
   
119.05   City Administrator to administer
   
119.06   Licensing and fees
   
119.07   Dispensary warning signs
 
   
119.99   Penalties
§ 119.01 DEFINITIONS.
   The definitions within KRS 218B.010 are hereby adopted and incorporated by
reference as if fully rewritten herein, and the following definitions are
established:
   “APPLICANT”. Any person who applies for a license under Chapter 128.
   “CITY ADMINISTRATOR.” The Crestview Hills City Administrator or his/her
designee.
   “LICENSEE.” Any person who has applied for and been granted a license to
overate a medicinal cannabis business by the city.
(Ord. 2024-12-02, passed 12-17-24)
§ 119.02 SALE OF MEDICINAL CANNABIS AND OPERATION OF ALL MEDICINAL CANNABIS
BUSINESSES PERMITTED.
   Pursuant to favorable results of the November 5, 2024, ballot measure, the
sale of medicinal cannabis and operation of medicinal cannabis business are
permitted in the city. Prior to commencing operations, all medicinal cannabis
entities must meet the terms and conditions set forth in this chapter and the
Crestview Hills Zoning Ordinance, acquire an occupational license. and ensure
that the business adheres to any other applicable portions of the Crestview
Hills Code of Ordinances.
(Ord. 2024-12-02, passed 12-17-24)
§ 119.03 HOURS OF OPERATION.
   A dispensary shall only dispense medicinal cannabis to a cardholder in an
indoor, enclosed, secure facility between the hours of 8:00 a.m. and 8:00 p.m.
(Ord. 2024-12-02, passed 12-17-24)
§ 119.04 USE OF REVENUE.
   All moneys derived from the collection of licensure application fees,
initial licensing fees, and licensure renewal fees provided for herein shall be
paid into and become a part of the General Fund of the city to be used to
offset for any additional costs attributable to the operation of medicinal
cannabis businesses.
(Ord. 2024-12-02, passed 12-17-24)
§ 119.05 CITY ADMINISTRATOR TO ADMINISTER.
   (A)   When an application is filed with the City Administrator for a license
to do business in accordance with the provisions of this chapter, the City
Administrator shall either approve or disapprove the application in accordance
with this chapter.
   (B)   Appeals from an order of the City Administrator related to this
chapter shall be heard by the Mayor.
(Ord. 2024-12-02, passed 12-17-24)
§ 119.06 LICENSING AND FEES.
   (A)   Licenses required.
      (1)   Schedule of licenses and fees.
         (a)   For the privilege of operating a medicinal cannabis business in
the city, there is hereby established a corresponding city license for each of
the Kentucky licenses described in the schedule below.
         (b)   The actions, business and transactions authorized and permitted
thereby shall be the same as those of the state licenses to which the city
licenses correspond and which are indicated and described in the sections of
Kentucky law indicated in the following schedule, and no person shall engage in
any such action, business or transaction within Crestview Hills without having
first obtained the applicable Kentucky and city licenses to do so. The fees for
such city licenses shall be as indicated in the following schedule and shall be
per annum unless otherwise specified:
 
Cultivator                          $900
Dispensary                          $900
Processor                           $900
Producer                            $900
Cannabis safety compliance facility $500
 
      (2)   Delinquent financial claims. No license for the sale, production,
cultivation, or transport of medicinal cannabis shall be granted or renewed for
the operation on any premises, or to any person, firm, partnership or
corporation, who is not in compliance with any tax, permit, or other obligation
to the city.
      (3)   Required business and premises security. No person shall cultivate,
process, produce, possess, test, transfer, transport, or sell medicinal
cannabis or otherwise operate a cannabis business without first taking
reasonable measures to ensure the security and protection of the facility (and
its contents) and persons working within the facility. All medicinal cannabis
businesses must take, at minimum, the following security measures:
         (a)   24/7 monitoring and continuously recording surveillance video
cameras in 1080p quality or better, covering all areas inside the business
where medicinal cannabis or coins/currency are located and the full perimeter
outside the business premises in the case of a standalone building or, in the
case where the business is not located in a standalone building, at all points
of entry and exit, including windows;
         (b)   Alarm systems covering interior and perimeter;
         (c)   Badging and tracking of all employees and visitors;
         (d)   On-site security personnel during non-business hours or other
security measures approved by the Chief of Police; and
         (e)   Secure storage areas and entrances with locks.
   (B)   License application; contents.
      (1)   Any person desiring to engage in a medicinal cannabis business,
before so doing, shall file with the City Clerk an application on forms
provided by the city, which shall be verified and contain the following
information:
         (a)   The name, age, email address, phone number, address and
residence of each applicant and if there is more than one (1) and they are
partners, the partnership, names and their addresses; and, if the applicant is
a corporation, the application shall contain the name and address of the
corporate officers, the Board of Directors, any stockholder that owns more than
50% of the stock and the name and address of the agent for service of process;
         (b)   The proposed legal name of the cannabis business;
         (c)   Identification of each type of proposed medicinal cannabis
business operating at that location (cultivator, dispensary, producer,
processor, safety compliance facility);
         (d)   Whether or not the applicant is a citizen and resident of
Kentucky and for what period of time;
         (e)   The name and address of each person with an ownership interest,
or who will have an ownership interest, in the business for which the license
is being sought, together with the nature of that interest, and if the
applicant is a corporation, the names, addresses and agents of each officer,
director and managerial emoloyee and the name of the state under the law of
which such corporate applicant is incorporated;
         (f)   The street and number of the premises to be licensed, whether or
not the applicant is the owner of such premises or what interest he or she has
therein and the name and address of any other person, either as principal or
associate, who is interested with applicant either in the premises or in the
business to be licensed;
         (g)   A list (with sufficient evidence to confirm) of measures taken
by the applicant to ensure the security and protection of the facility (and its
contents) and individuals working within the facility during and after business
hours;
         (h)   A statement that the applicant will in good faith, abide by
applicable Kentucky law and the City Code of Ordinances relating to medicinal
cannabis that may or shall be in force pertaining thereto;
         (i)   Zoning approval in accordance with the Crestview Hills Zoning
Ordinance;
         (j)   An affidavit confirming that the applicant complies and shall
continue to comply with all aspects of the applicable building codes, fire
codes, and all other applicable state and local laws or regulations;
         (k)   An affidavit confirming that no prospective board members who
managed or served on the board were convicted, fined, censured, or had a
registration or license suspended or revoked in any administrative or judicial
proceedings;
         (l)   An affidavit confirming that no principal officer, board member,
agent, volunteer, or employee has been convicted of a disqualifying felony
offense; or is younger than twenty-one (21) years of age and that no employee,
board member, or owner. in part or in whole, is a medicinal cannabis
practitioner; and
         (m)   A copy of their Commonwealth of Kentucky-issued license for the
same purpose and location as evidenced in the application. No person shall
cultivate, process, produce, possess, test, transfer, transport, or sell
medicinal cannabis or otherwise operate a cannabis business without first
obtaining a license from the appropriate Kentucky regulatory authority pursuant
to KRS Chapter 218B.
      (2)   If the City Administrator deems that the applicant has met the
applicable eligibility and criteria, a license shall be issued to the
applicant.
         (a)   Contents of license. All medicinal cannabis licenses issued
pursuant to this section shall contain the following information:
            1.   The name and address of the licensee;
            2.   The type of license;
            3.   A description by street and number of the licensed premises;
            4.   The name and address of the owner of the building in which the
licensed premises are located;
            5.   A statement in substance that the license shall not be a
property or vested right and that it may be revoked or suspended at any time
pursuant to law; and
             6.   The name and address of the owner of the building in which
the licensed premises are located.
         (b)   All medicinal cannabis licenses and renewals shall expire upon
the earlier of December 31st following the most recent application or renewal:
         (c)   The revocation of any licenses or permits issued by the
Commonwealth of Kentucky authorizing the entity to operate the medicinal
cannabis business shall automatically cause the revocation of the corresponding
Crestview Hills license.
   (C)   Change in ownership or fact situation after issuance of license;
supplemental statements. If, after a license has been issued, there is a change
in any of ownership or any information required to be provided under this
section, a written supplemental statement giving notice of such change shall be
filed with the City Administrator within twenty (20) days after such change
occurs.
   (D)   Conditions of premises.
      (1)   No license for a medicinal cannabis business shall be issued for
any premises, unless the applicant for the license is the owner of the premises
or is in possession of the premises under a written lease for a term not less
than the license period.
      (2)   Location of premises to be licensed. No license for a medicinal
cannabis business shall be issued for any premise that is located within one
thousand (1,000) feet of an existing child-care center, as defined by KRS
Chapter 199, family child-care home, as defined in KRS Chapter 199, or a
registered childcare provider in the Child Care Assistance Program, as
regulated by 922 KAR 2:180;
   (E)   Display of license. Before commencing or doing anv business for the
time for which a license has been issued, the license shall be posted and at
all times displayed in a conspicuous place in the room or principal room where
the business is carried on so that all persons visiting the place may readily
see the license.
   (F)   Refusal or revocation of a license.
      (1)   Qualification of licensee. The City Administrator shall refuse to
issue a license or renew the license of an existing medicinal cannabis business
in the following circumstances:
         (a)   When the applicant intentionally or knowingly makes a false
statement as to a material matter in an application;
         (b)   When the applicant fails to complete any part of the
application;
         (c)   When the licensee has failed to pay any fee, tax, fine, or
penalty related to a violation of this section;
         (d)   When the medicinal cannabis business is subject to unsatisfied
penalties, fines, or liens assessed or levied by any level of government, for
any reason;
         (e)   When the applicant of the medicinal cannabis business cannot
provide sufficient evidence that the location of the proposed medicinal
cannabis business is not within 1,000 feet of an existing child-care center, as
defined by KRS Chapter 199.894(3), family childcare home, as defined in KRS
Chapter 199.894(5), or a registered childcare provider in the Child Care
Assistance Program, as regulated by 922 KAR 2:180;
         (f)   When the operator of the medicinal cannabis business fails to
comply with any applicable state or local law or regulation, including, without
limitation, occupational licensing, zoning, property maintenance, health,
sanitation, fire, electrical, plumbing, and mechanical codes; and
         (g)   When the renewal of a medicinal cannabis business license is
denied by the Commonwealth of Kentucky for any reason, including the failure to
successfully achieve minimal performance standards as outlined in KRS 218B.
      (2)   The City Administrator may revoke the medicinal cannabis business
license for any of the following reasons:
         (a)   When any one of the circumstances set forth above occurs; or
         (b)   When the licensee has been found to be in violation of this
chapter two (2) or more times during the relevant license term.
      (3)   A licensee whose medicinal cannabis business license has been
revoked is not eligible to apply for another medicinal cannabis business
license at the same location for which the license was revoked for a period of
one (1) year.
      (4)   Procedure to deny, revoke, or refuse renewal of a medicinal
cannabis business license.
         (a)   Upon finding that a condition exists to deny an application,
revoke a license, or refuse to renew a medicinal cannabis business license, the
City Administrator shall issue a letter to the licensee or applicant requiring
that it come forward and show cause why the above action should not be taken.
         (b)   The licensee or applicant shall have ten (10) calendar days to
respond to the City Administrator's letter in writing and present evidence
showing that the proposed action should not be taken.
         (c)   The City Administrator shall determine whether the licensee or
applicant has produced sufficient evidence to contest the proposed action. If
sufficient evidence has been provided, the license shall be granted. In the
event that sufficient evidence has not been presented the license shall be
denied, refused or revoked. Notice of a denial, refusal, or revocation shall be
provided to the applicant/licensee.
         (d)   An applicant/licensee aggrieved by the City Administrator's
decision may request a hearing before the Mayor (or a hearing officer
designated by the Mayor) within thirty (30) days of the order.
   (G)   Hearings.
      (1)   Notice of hearings. The City Administrator shall provide written
notice, via regular United States mail or hand delivery to the licensee, of any
hearing related to the possible suspension or revocation of the licensee's
medicinal cannabis license. The address provided by the licensee to the city on
its license application shall be deemed the address for notice of hearing.
Notice to the licensee must be postmarked at least seven (7) calendar days
prior to the hearing.
      (2)   Procedure.
         (a)   The Mayor (or the Mayor's designee) shall be the hearing officer
for any proceeding related to the possible suspension or revocation of any
medicinal cannabis license.
         (b)   Any hearing before the Mayor shall be a public hearing.
         (c)   The City Attorney, or his or her designee, shall represent the
city at the hearing. The applicant or licensee has a right to retain counsel
for representation at the hearing.
         (d)   The Mayor shall issue a written decision, including findings of
fact and conclusions of law, within 30 days after the conclusion of the
hearing.
         (e)   An appeal from any final order issued by the Mayor following a
hearing conducted pursuant to this section of this chapter may be made to the
appropriate Kenton County court within thirty (30) days after the date when the
order is issued by the Mayor.
(Ord. 2024-12-02, passed 12-17-24)
§ 119.07 DISPENSARY WARNING SIGNS.
   A dispensary shall post a sign in a conspicuous location at each entrance of
the facility that reads: “THESE PREMISES ARE UNDER CONTINUOUS VIDEO
SURVEILLANCE.” The sign must also conform to any zoning ordinance requirements
and include any other language required by Kentucky law.
(Ord. 2024-12-02, passed 12-17-24)
§ 119.99 PENALTIES.
   (A)   Any person who operates a medicinal cannabis business without a city
license as provided in §§
119.01  through
119.07  shall be issued a citation by a Lakeside Park-Crestview Hills Police
Officer or Code Enforcement Officer and ordered to cease operations until a
valid license is obtained. Operating a medicinal cannabis business without a
license shall constitute a civil offense and any person, firm or corporation
who operates a medicinal cannabis business without a license shall be subject
to a fine of one thousand dollars ($1,000) per day for each day that a
medicinal cannabis business is operated without a valid license. The fine shall
be increased to two thousand dollars ($2,000) per day starting on the eighth
day that a medicinal cannabis business is operated without a valid license and
shall continue at that rate thereafter. At any time, the city may file suit for
an injunction in Kenton Circuit Court to force closure of a medicinal cannabis
business operating without a valid license. Each day of such violation(s) shall
constitute a separate offense.
   (B)   Operating a licensed medicinal cannabis business in a manner that
violates the provisions of §§
119.01  through
119.07  shall constitute a civil offense and any person, firm or corporation
who operates a licensed medicinal cannabis business in a manner that violates
the provisions of §§
119.01  through
119.07  shall be subject to a civil fine of one thousand dollars ($1,000) per
day for each day that a licensed medicinal cannabis business is operated in a
manner that violates this code. Each day of such violation( s) shall constitute
a separate offense.
   (C)   A person found to have committed a violation of this code shall be
personally responsible for the amount of civil fines assessed for the violation
and for all charges, fees and abatement costs incurred by the city in
connection with the enforcement. The city may bring a civil action against the
person and shall have the same remedies as provided for the recovery of a debt.
   (D)   Citations issued pursuant to this section may be appealed to the
Crestview Hills Citation Appeals Board.
(Ord. 2024-12-02, passed 12-17-24)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
CHAPTER 130: OFFENSES AGAINST PERSONS
______________
EDITOR'S NOTE:
   This chapter contains references to those sections of the Kentucky Revised
Statutes which prohibit the most common offenses against persons. These
citations are intended only as convenient references for enforcement officers
in citing offenders under state law. It is not the intention of this code of
ordinances, and such provisions are specifically not incorporated by reference.
OFFENSE KRS SECTION PENALTY CLASS
OFFENSE                        KRS SECTION PENALTY CLASS
ASSAULT
   First degree             508.010     B felony
   Second degree            508.020     C felony
   Third degree             508.025     D felony
   Fourth degree            508.030     A misdemeanor
   Under emotional disturban508.040     B misdemeanor or D felony
CRIMINAL ABUSE
   First degree             508.100     C felony
   Second degree            508.110     D felony
   Third degree             508.120     A misdemeanor
CRIMINAL COERCION              509.080     A misdemeanor
CUSTODIAL INTERFERENCE         509.070     D felony
KIDNAPPING                     509.040     A or B felony; capital offense
MANSLAUGHTER
   First degree             507.030     B felony
   Second degree            507.040     C felony
MENACING                       508.050     B misdemeanor
MURDER                         507.020     Capital offense
RECKLESS HOMICIDE              507.050     D felony
TERRORISTIC THREATENING
   First degree             508.075     C felony
   Second degree            508.078     C or D felony
   Third degree             508.080     A misdemeanor
UNLAWFUL IMPRISONMENT
   First degree             509.020     D felony
   Second degree            509.030     A misdemeanor
WANTON ENDANGERMENT
   First degree             508.060     D felony
   Second degree            508.070     A misdemeanor
 
Penalty, see
Ch. 139
CHAPTER 131: FAMILY OFFENSES
______________
EDITOR'S NOTE:
   The following schedule contains references to those sections of the Kentucky
Revised Statutes which prohibit the most common family offenses. These
citations are intended only as convenient references for enforcement officers
in citing offenders under state law. It is not the intention of the
municipality to incorporate such statutory provisions in this code of
ordinances, and such provisions are specifically not incorporated by reference.
OFFENSE KRS SECTION PENALTY CLASS
OFFENSE                         KRS SECTION PENALTY CLASS
BIGAMY                          530.010     D felony
CONCEALING BIRTH OF INFANT      530.030     A misdemeanor
INCEST                          530.020     A, B, or C felony
INCOMPETENT PERSON, ENDANGERING
WELFARE OF MINORS               530.080     A misdemeanor
   Abandonment of            530.040     D felony
   Endangering welfare of    530.060     A misdemeanor
   Unlawful transaction with
      First degree        530.064     A, B, or C felony
      Second degree       530.065     D felony
      Third degree        530.070     A misdemeanor
NONSUPPORT                      530.050     A misdemeanor
NONSUPPORT, FLAGRANT            530.050     D felony
 
Penalty, see
Ch. 139
CHAPTER 132: OFFENSES AGAINST PROPERTY
______________
EDITOR'S NOTE:
   This chapter contains references to those sections of the Kentucky Revised
Statutes which prohibit the most common offenses against property. These
citations are intended only as convenient references for enforcement officers
in citing offenders under state law. It is not the intention of the
municipality to incorporate such statutory provisions in this code of
ordinances, and such provisions are specifically not incorporated by reference.
OFFENSE KRS SECTION PENALTY CLASS
OFFENSE                             KRS SECTION PENALTY CLASS
ARSON                                           
   Defrauding insurer            513.060     D felony
   First degree                  513.020     A felony
   Second degree                 513.030     B felony
   Third degree                  513.040     D felony
BURGLARY                                        
   First degree                  511.020     B felony
   Second degree                 511.030     C felony
   Third degree                  511.040     D felony
   Possession of burglar’s tool511.050     A misdemeanor
CRIMINAL MISCHIEF                               
   First degree                  512.020     D felony
   Second degree                 512.030     A misdemeanor
CRIMINAL TRESPASS                               
   First degree                  511.060     A misdemeanor
   Second degree                 511.070     B misdemeanor
   Third degree                  511.080     Violation
FORGERY AND RELATED OFFENSES                    
   Criminal simulation           516.110     A misdemeanor
   Forgery                                   
      First degree            516.020     C felony
      Second degree           516.030     D felony
      Third degree            516.040     A misdemeanor
   Possession of forged instrumen            
      First degree            516.050     C felony
      Second degree           516.060     D felony
      Third degree            516.070     A misdemeanor
   Possession of forgery device  516.090     D felony
   Using slugs                               
      First degree            516.120     D felony
      Second degree           516.130     B misdemeanor
LITTERING, CRIMINAL                 512.070     A misdemeanor
NOXIOUS SUBSTANCES                              
   Criminal possession of        512.060     B misdemeanor
   Criminal use of               512.050     B misdemeanor
POSTING ADVERTISEMENTS UNLAWFULLY   512.080     Violation
ROBBERY                                         
   First degree                  512.020     B felony
   Second degree                 512.030     C felony
THEFT AND RELATED OFFENSES                      
   Device for theft of telephone 514.065     A misdemeanor or D felony
services
   Obscuring identity of machine 514.120     A misdemeanor or C or D felony
   Receiving stolen property     514.110     A misdemeanor or A, B, C or D
                                                felony
   Possession of stolen mail     514.150     D felony
   Theft by deception            514.040     A misdemeanor or C or D felony
   Theft by extortion            514.080     A misdemeanor or C or D felony
   Theft by failure to make      514.070     A misdemeanor or C or D felony
disposition
   Theft by unlawful taking      514.030     A misdemeanor or A, B, C or D
                                                felony
   Theft of labor                514.090     A misdemeanor or C or D felony
   Theft of mail matter          514.140     D felony
   Theft of property             514.050     A misdemeanor or C or D felony
   Theft of services             514.060     A misdemeanor or C or D felony
   Unauthorized use of vehicle   514.100     A misdemeanor or D felony
 
Penalty, see
Ch. 139
CHAPTER 133: OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC MORALS
______________
EDITOR'S NOTE:
   This chapter contains references to those sections of the Kentucky Revised
Statutes which prohibit the most common offenses against public morals. These
citations are intended only as convenient references for enforcement officers
in citing offenders under state law. It is not the intention of the
municipality to incorporate such statutory provisions in this code of
ordinances, and such provisions are specifically not incorporated by reference.
OFFENSE KRS SECTION PENALTY CLASS
OFFENSE                                     KRS SECTION PENALTY CLASS
PORNOGRAPHY                                             
   Advertising obscene material          531.050     B misdemeanor
   Distribution                                      
      Distribution of obscene matter  531.020     A or B misdemeanor
      Distribution to minor           531.030     A misdemeanor or D
                                                        felony
      Using minors to distribute      531.040     A misdemeanor or D
                                                        felony
   Portrayal of sexual performance by min            
      Advertising material containing 531.360     C or D felony
      Distributing matter containing  531.340     C or D felony
      Promoting sale of matter                    
         containing                531.350     A misdemeanor; C or D
                                                        felony
      Using minors to distribute such 531.370     C or D felony
matter
   Promoting sale of obscenity           531.060     A or B misdemeanor; D
                                                        felony
   Sexual performance by minor                       
      Promotion of                    531.320     A, B, or C felony
      Use of minor                    531.310     A, B, or C felony
PROSTITUTION OFFENSES                                   
   Loitering for prostitution purposes   529.080     Violation or B
                                                        misdemeanor
   Permitting prostitution               529.070     B misdemeanor
      Second degree                   529.040     D felony
   Prostitution                          529.020     B misdemeanor
 
Penalty, see
Ch. 139
CHAPTER 134: GAMBLING OFFENSES
         
EDITOR'S NOTE:
   This chapter contains references to those sections of the Kentucky Revised
Statutes which prohibit the most common gambling offenses. These citations are
intended only as convenient references for enforcement officers in citing
offenders under state law. It is not the intention of the municipality to
incorporate such statutory provisions in this code of ordinances, and such
provisions are specifically not incorporated by reference.
OFFENSE KRS SECTION PENALTY CLASS
OFFENSE                                   KRS SECTION PENALTY CLASS
CONSPIRACY TO PROMOTE GAMBLING            528.040     D felony
HORSE RACES, MESSENGER BETTING PROHIBITED 528.110     A misdemeanor
PARA-MUTUAL WAGERING                      528.120     A misdemeanor
PERMITTING GAMBLING                       528.070     B misdemeanor
POSSESSION OF GAMBLING DEVICE             528.080     A misdemeanor
POSSESSION OF GAMBLING RECORDS
   First degree                        528.050     D felony
   Second degree                       528.060     A misdemeanor
PROMOTING GAMBLING
   First degree                        528.020     D felony
   Second degree                       528.030     A misdemeanor
 
CHAPTER 135: OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC ADMINISTRATION AND JUSTICE
              
EDITOR'S NOTE:
   This chapter contains references to those sections of the Kentucky Revised
Statutes which prohibit the most common offenses against public administration
and justice. These citations are intended only as convenient references for
enforcement officers in citing offenders under state law. It is not the
intention of the municipality to incorporate such statutory provisions in this
code of ordinances, and such provisions are specifically not incorporated by
reference.
OFFENSE KRS SECTION PENALTY CLASS
OFFENSE                                           KRS SECTION PENALTY CLASS
BRIBERY AND RELATED OFFENSES
   Bribery of public servant                   521.020     C felony
   Receiving unlawful compensation             521.040     A misdemeanor
   Soliciting unlawful compensation            521.030     B misdemeanor
ESCAPE AND RELATED OFFENSES
   Bail jumping
      First degree                          520.070     D felony
      Second degree                         520.080     A misdemeanor
   Escape
      First degree                          520.020     C felony
      Second degree                         520.030     D felony
      Third degree                          520.040     B misdemeanor
   Hindering prosecution or apprehension
      First degree                          520.120     D felony
      Second degree                         520.130     A misdemeanor
   Promoting contraband
      First degree                          520.050     D felony
      Second degree                         520.060     A misdemeanor
   Resisting arrest                            520.090     A misdemeanor
   Resisting order to stop motor vehicle       520.100     A misdemeanor
JUDICIAL ADMINISTRATION, INTERFERENCE WITH
   Bribe receiving by juror                    524.070     D felony
   Bribe receiving by witness                  524.030     D felony
   Bribing a juror                             524.060     D felony
   Bribing a witness                           524.020     D felony
   Harassing a witness                         524.045     A misdemeanor
   Intimidating a particpant in the legal proce524.040     D felony
   Jury tampering                              524.090     D felony
   Retaliating against a witness               524.055     D felony
   Simulating legal process                    524.110     B misdemeanor
   Tampering with physical evidence            524.100     D felony
   Tampering with a witness                    524.050     D felony
   Unlawful practice of law                    524.130     B misdemeanor
PERJURY AND RELATED OFFENSES
   False swearing                              523.040     B misdemeanor
   Perjury
      First degree                          523.020     D felony
      Second degree                         523.030     A misdemeanor
   Unsworn falsification to authorities        523.100     B misdemeanor
PUBLIC ADMINISTRATION, OBSTRUCTION OF
   Compounding a crime                         519.030     A misdemeanor
   Falsely reporting an incident               519.040     A misdemeanor
   Impersonating a public servant              519.050     A misdemeanor
   Obstructing governmental operations         519.020     A misdemeanor
   Tampering with public records               519.060     D felony
PUBLIC OFFICE, ABUSE OF
   Misuse of confidential information          522.040     D felony
   Official misconduct
      First degree                          522.020     A misdemeanor
      Second degree                         522.030     B misdemeanor
 
Penalty, see
Ch. 139
CHAPTER 136: OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC ORDER
Section
   
136.01   Discharge of weapons
 
   
136.99   Penalty
§ 136.01 DISCHARGE OF WEAPONS.
   (A)   "WEAPON" as used herein shall mean and include all firearms, pistols,
rifles, shotguns, BB guns, pellet guns, air rifles, toy guns, or sling shot
bows which project, launch, shoot, or otherwise discharge lead, pellets, BBs,
arrows, or any dangerous missiles.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to discharge any weapon as defined in division
(A) above within the corporate limits of the city except in a regularly
established shooting gallery. However, this section shall not be construed to
prohibit any officer of the law from discharging a weapon in the performance of
his duty. Further, this section shall not be construed to prohibit any citizen
from discharging a weapon when lawfully defending his person or property.
(Ord 1979-7-1, passed 7-12-79; Am. Ord. 2020-09-01, passed 10-8-20) Penalty,
see §
136.99
§ 136.99 PENALTY.
   Any person found guilty of a violation of §
136.01 shall be fined not less than ten dollars ($10.00) or more than one
hundred dollars ($100.00).
(Ord. 1979-7-1, passed 7-12-79)
                    
EDITOR'S NOTE:
   The following schedule contains references to those sections of the Kentucky
Revised Statutes which prohibit the most common offenses against public order.
These citations are intended only as convenient references for enforcement
officers in citing offenders under state law. It is not the intention of the
municipality to incorporate such statutory provisions in this code of
ordinances, and such provisions are specifically not incorporated by reference.
OFFENSE KRS SECTION PENALTY CLASS
OFFENSE                                     KRS SECTION PENALTY CLASS
ABUSE OF CORPSE                             525.120     D felony
CRUELTY TO ANIMALS
   First degree                          525.125     D felony
   Second degree                         525.130     A misdemeanor
DESECRATION OF VENERATED OBJECTS
   First degree                          525.105     D felony
   Second degree                         525.110     A misdemeanor
DISORDERLY CONDUCT
   First degree                          525.055     A misdemeanor
   Second degree                         525.060     B misdemeanor
DISRUPTING MEETINGS OR PROCESSIONS
   First degree                          525.145     A misdemeanor
   Second degree                         525.150     B misdemeanor<RO>
EAVESDROPPING AND RELATED OFFENSES
   Divulging illegally obtained informati526.060     A misdemeanor
   Eavesdropping                         526.020     D felony
   Installing eavesdropping device       526.030     D felony
   Possessing eavesdropping device       526.040     A misdemeanor
   Tampering with private communications 526.050     A misdemeanor
FAILURE TO DISPERSE                         525.160     B misdemeanor
FIREARMS AND WEAPONS
(Editor's note: Enactment of KRS 65.870 now prohibits any type of local
firearms control ordinance)
HARASSING COMMUNICATIONS                    525.080     B misdemeanor
HARASSMENT                                  525.070     B misdemeanor
INCITING TO RIOT                            525.040     A misdemeanor
LOITERING                                   525.090     Violation
OBSTRUCTING HIGHWAY OR PUBLIC PASSAGE       525.140     B misdemeanor
PUBLIC INTOXICATION                         525.100     B misdemeanor
RIOT
   First degree                          525.020     D felony
   Second degree                         525.030     A misdemeanor
UNLAWFUL ASSEMBLY                           525.050     B misdemeanor
 
Penalty, see
Ch. 139
CHAPTER 137: SEXUAL OFFENSES
______________
EDITOR'S NOTE:
   This chapter contains references to those sections of the Kentucky Revised
Statutes which prohibit the most common sexual offenses. These citations are
intended only as convenient references for enforcement officers in citing
offenders under state law. It is not the intention of the municipality to
incorporate such statutory provisions in this code of ordinances, and such
provisions are specifically not incorporated by reference.
OFFENSE KRS SECTION PENALTY CLASS
OFFENSE           KRS SECTION PENALTY CLASS
INDECENT EXPOSURE 510.150     B misdemeanor
RAPE
   First degree510.040     A or B misdemeanor
   Second degre510.050     C felony
   Third degree510.060     D felony
SEXUAL ABUSE
   First degree510.110     C or D felony
   Second degre510.120     A misdemeanor
   Third degree510.130     B misdemeanor
SEXUAL MISCONDUCT 510.140     A misdemeanor
SODOMY
   First degree510.070     A or B felony
   Second degre510.080     C felony
   Third degree510.090     D felony
   Fourth degre510.100     A misdemeanor
 
Penalty, see
Ch. 139
CHAPTER 138: INCHOATE OFFENSES
______________
EDITOR'S NOTE:
   This chapter contains references to those sections of the Kentucky Revised
Statutes which prohibit the most common inchoate offenses. these citations are
intended only as convenient references for enforcement officers in citing
offenders under state law. It is not the intention of the municipality to
incorporate such statutory provisions in this code of ordinances, and such
provisions are specifically not incorporated by reference.
 
OFFENSE               KRS SECTION PENALTY CLASS
CRIMINAL ATTEMPT      506.010     A or B misdemeanor; B or C felony
CRIMINAL CONSPIRACY   506.040     A or B misdemeanor; B or C felony
CRIMINAL FACILITATION 506.080     A or B misdemeanor; D felony
CRIMINAL SOLICITATION 506.030     A or B misdemeanor; B or C felony
CRIMINAL SYNDICATE    506.120     B or C felony
 
Penalty, see
Ch. 139
CHAPTER 139: GENERAL PENALTY FOR TITLE XIII
Section
   
139.01   Fines for misdemeanors and violations
   
139.02   Sentence of imprisonment for misdemeanor
   
139.03   Fines for felonies
   
139.04   Sentence of imprisonment for felony
______________
EDITOR'S NOTE:
   This chapter is intended for information purposes only. The provisions of
this chapter are specifically not incorporated by reference.
§ 139.01 FINES FOR MISDEMEANORS AND VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   Fines and imprisonment for misdemeanors shall not be mutually
exclusive. In any case where imprisonment is authorized a fine may be levied in
addition to the imprisonment or a fine may be levied as an alternative to
imprisonment. Similarly, a fine may be levied in lieu of imprisonment. Whether
or not the fine is to be levied as the sole penalty or as an additional or
alternative penalty shall be in the discretion of the judge or jury as the case
may be. If the trial is by jury, the jury shall have the discretion. This rule
shall apply in all cases where a fine is not the exclusive penalty authorized
by law.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided for an offense defined outside this
title, a person who has been convicted of any offense other than a felony shall
be sentenced to pay a fine in an amount not to exceed:
      (1)   For a Class A misdemeanor, $500; or
      (2)   For a Class B misdemeanor, $250; or
      (3)   For a violation, $250.
   (C)   This section does not apply to a corporation.
(KRS 534.040)
§ 139.02 SENTENCE OF IMPRISONMENT FOR MISDEMEANOR.
   A sentence of imprisonment for a misdemeanor shall be a definite term and
shall be fixed within the following maximum limitations:
   (A)   For a Class A misdemeanor, the term shall not exceed 12 months; and
   (B)   For a Class B misdemeanor, the term shall not exceed 90 days.
(KRS 532.090)
§ 139.03 FINES FOR FELONIES.
   (A)   Except as otherwise provided for an offense defined outside this
title, a person who has been convicted of any felony and granted a sentence of
probation or conditional discharge shall be sentenced to pay a fine in an
amount not less than one thousand dollars ($1,000) and no greater than ten
thousand dollars ($10,000) or double his gain from commission of the offense,
whichever is the greater.
   (B)   In determining the amount and method of paying a fine for commission
of a felony, the court shall consider, among others, the following factors:
      (1)   The defendant's ability to pay the amount of the fine;
      (2)   The hardship likely to be imposed on the defendant's dependents by
the amount of the fine and the time and method of paying it;
      (3)   The impact the amount of the fine will have on the defendant's
ability to make reparation or restitution to the victim; and
      (4)   The amount of the defendant's gain, if any, derived from the
commission of the offense.
   (C)   When a defendant is convicted of two or more felonies committed
through a single act and is sentenced to fines pursuant to division (A) above,
the aggregate amount of such fines shall not exceed $10,000 or double the
amount of the defendant's gain from commission of the offense, whichever is
greater.
   (D)   This section does not apply to a corporation.
(KRS 534.030)
§ 139.04 SENTENCE OF IMPRISONMENT FOR FELONY.
   (A)   A sentence of imprisonment for a felony shall be an indeterminate
sentence, the maximum of which shall be fixed within the limits provided by
division (B) below, and subject to modification by the trial judge pursuant to
KRS 532.070.
   (B)   The authorized maximum terms of imprisonment for felonies are:
      (1)   For a Class A felony, not less than twenty (20) years nor more than
life imprisonment;
      (2)   For a Class B felony, not less than ten (10) years nor more than
twenty (20) years;
      (3)   For a Class C felony, not less than five (5) years nor more than
ten (10) years; and
      (4)   For a Class D felony, not less than one (1) year nor more than five
(5) years.
   (C)   For any felony specified in KRS Chapter 510 or KRS 530.020, 530.064(1)
(a), 531.310, 531.320, 531.335, or 529.100, 529.110, or 531.340 the sentence
shall include an additional five (5) year period of conditional discharge which
shall be added to the maximum sentence rendered for the offense. During this
period of conditional discharge, if a defendant violates the provisions of
conditional discharge, the defendant may be incarcerated for:
      (1)   The remaining period of his or her initial sentence, if any is
remaining; and
      (2)   The entire period of conditional discharge, or if the initial
sentence has been served, for the remaining period of conditional discharge.
   (D)   The actual time of release within the maximum established by division
(A) above, or as modified pursuant to KRS 532.070, shall be determined under
procedures established elsewhere by law.
(KRS 532.060)
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
      Chapter
         
150.   BUILDING CODE
         
151.   SWIMMING POOLS
         
152.   ZONING
         
153.   CITY DEVELOPMENT
         
154.   SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS
         
155.   ELECTRICAL REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 150: BUILDING CODE
Section
General Provisions
   
150.01   Adoption of Kentucky Building Code
   
150.02   Building and zoning permit schedule
   
150.03   Proportioning fees for services provided
   
150.04   Permit fees for local and state inspection
   
150.05   Demolition of structures; permit required
Residential Code
   
150.10   Adoption of Kentucky Residential Code
Property Maintenance Code
   
150.15   Adoption of International Property Maintenance Code
 
   
150.99   Penalty
General Provisions
§ 150.01 ADOPTION OF KENTUCKY BUILDING CODE.
   The Kentucky Building Code, as contained in Chapter 7, Title 815 of the
Kentucky Administrative Regulations; the Kentucky Plumbing Code, as contained
in Chapter 20, Title 815 of the Kentucky Administrative Regulations; the
Kentucky Standards of Safety, as contained in Chapter 10, Title 815 of the
Kentucky Administrative Regulations; together with any amendments, are hereby
adopted by reference as if fully set forth in this code of ordinances. Copies
of the above codes and any amendments thereto shall be placed on file in the
office of the City Clerk where they shall be available for public inspection
during normal business hours.
§ 150.02 BUILDING AND ZONING PERMIT SCHEDULE.
   (A)   Adoption of One Stop Service Level 2. The city hereby adopts by
reference herein and attached at Appendix A to Ordinance 2005-04-02, Unified
"One Stop Shop" Service Level 2 offered by the Northern Kentucky Area Planning
Commission (NKAPC).
   (B)   Fees adopted by reference. The city hereby adopts by reference herein
and attached as Appendix B to Ordinance 2005-04-02 as if fully set forth herein
the Schedule of Fees dated January 2005, as recommended by the NKAPC for the
processing and issuance of zoning permits, building permits, electric permits,
Board of Adjustment hearing fees, and fines for violations of these life safety
codes when a violation of them has been classified as a civil offense.
(Ord. 1981-2-4, passed 3-12-81; Am. Ord. 1985-8-2, passed - - ; Am. Ord. 1005-
04-02, passed 5-12-05) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.03 PROPORTIONING FEES FOR SERVICES PROVIDED.
   For services rendered by employees of the city, each employee shall be paid
for his services from the building permit fee the following percentage of the
fee considering the type of structure for which the services are required, and
the balance of the building permit fee, if any, is reserved to the city for its
administrative costs.
Service Percentage of Total Fee
Service                                                  Percentage of Total
                                                         Fee
RESIDENTIAL                                               
   Plan and ordinance review (zoning)                 30
   Building inspection (building)                     55
   Administration                                     15
NONRESIDENTIAL
   Plan and ordinance review and on-site inspections  30
(zoning)
   Building inspection                                40
   Fire inspection                                    15
   Administration                                     15
 
(Ord. 1981-2-4, passed 3-12-81; Am. Ord. 1987-8-2, passed 9-10-87)
§ 150.04 PERMIT FEES FOR LOCAL AND STATE INSPECTION.
   (A)   Term explanation.
      (1)   For purposes of this section "local building" permit fees apply to
all buildings and structures that are not subject to review by the State of
Kentucky under Section 105 of the Kentucky Building Code as amended.
      (2)   For purposes of this section "state building" permit fees apply to
buildings and structures that are subject to review by the State of Kentucky
under Section 105 of the Kentucky Building Code as amended.
   (B)   Responsibilities of the city and the state.
      (1)   It shall be the responsibility of the city to review plans and
specifications, issue permits, and to determine the compliance with law for the
buildings described as "local buildings".
      (2)   It shall be the responsibility of the appropriate department of the
Commonwealth of Kentucky and the city to review plans and specifications, issue
permits, and to determine compliance with the Kentucky Building Code and
appropriate city codes for the buildings described as "state buildings".
   (C)   Fees.
      (1)   Fees for the review of applications and inspection of local
buildings shall be at the rate of $ .08 per square foot of the actual building
size.
      (2)   Fees for the review of applications and inspection of state
buildings shall be at the rate of $ .04 per square foot of the actual building
size. No reduction shall be made of areas not to be completed described in §
150.02 (D)(1) above.
   (D)   That applications on file and fees paid at the time of the passage of
this section but incomplete shall consider the former rates with the rates
determined by this section.
(Ord. 1982-9-2, passed 1-13-83; Am. Ord. 1995-3-1, passed 3-9-95)
§ 150.05 DEMOLITION OF STRUCTURES; PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to demolish
any existing structure within the corporation limits of the city, whether on
private or public property, without obtaining a permit prior to the
commencement of the demolition of said structure.
   (B)   A permit shall issue from the City Clerk with the approval of the
Mayor, upon completion of an application furnished by the city. The application
shall be written in the English language and shall require the location, size,
type of construction, age of the structure, present physical condition of the
structure, and the reason for the demolition request.
   (C)   The City Clerk shall issue the demolition permit upon the receipt of
the application, the payment of a permit fee of one hundred dollars ($100), and
a finding from the application and an inspection of the structure by the
Building Inspector that it is in a deteriorated condition to the extent it is
reasonably repairable, is in a condition of blight, that the structure is not
located in an historical zone or that the structure is sought to be demolished
for no apparent economic or social reason. For a violation of this section the
property owner or occupant or agent for said party shall be subject to a
penalty as provided for in §
150.99.
   (D)   From any permit fee paid to the city for a demolition permit as
required by this section, the City Building Inspector shall be paid seventy-
five dollars ($75) for his services rendered, and the city shall retain twenty-
five dollars ($25) for administrative expenses.
(Ord. 1988-11-1, passed 12-8-88; Am. Ord. 1989-2-1, passed 3-9-89) Penalty, see
§
150.99
RESIDENTIAL CODE
§ 150.10 ADOPTION OF KENTUCKY RESIDENTIAL CODE.
   Pursuant to the authority of KRS 198B, certain documents, three copies of
which are on file on the office of the City Clerk and the Northern Kentucky
Area Planning Commission, being marked and designated as the 2002 Kentucky
Residential Code, Chapters 1 through 43, as published by the International Code
Council, Inc., 5203 Leesburg Pike, Suite 708, Falls Church, Virginia, are
hereby adopted as the code of the City of Crestview Hills for regulating the
design, construction, quality of materials, erection, installation, alteration,
repair, location, relocation, replacement, addition to, use or maintenance of
one- and two-family dwelling and townhouses not more than three stories in
height in the city and providing for the issuance of permits and collection of
fees therefor; and each and all of the regulations, provisions, conditions and
terms of such 2002 Kentucky Residential Code are hereby referred to, adopted
and made a part as if fully set forth in this section.
(Ord. 2005-04-1, passed 5-12-05)
PROPERTY MAINTENANCE CODE
§ 150.15 ADOPTION OF INTERNATIONAL PROPERTY MAINTENANCE CODE.
   (A)   Adopted by reference. The International Property Maintenance Code
(2006 edition), as published by the International Code Council, one (1) copy of
which is on file in the office of the City Clerk of the City of Crestview
Hills, Kenton County, Kentucky, is hereby adopted as the Property Maintenance
Code of the City of Crestview Hills, Kenton County, Kentucky, for regulating
and governing the conditions and maintenance of all property, buildings, and
structures; for providing the standards for supplied utilities and facilities
and other physical things and conditions essential to ensure that structures
are safe, sanitary, and fit for occupation and use; for providing the standards
for the condemnation of buildings and structures unfit for human occupancy and
use, and the demolition of such existing structures; and for providing for the
issuance of permits and collection of fees therefore. Each and all of the
regulations, provisions, penalties, conditions, and terms of said Property
Maintenance Code on file in the office of the City Clerk are hereby referred
to, adopted, and made a part hereof, as if fully set out in this chapter, with
the additions, insertions, deletions, and changes, if any, prescribed in
division (B) of this section.
   (B)   Revisions and amendments. The following sections of the International
Property Maintenance Code (2006 edition) are hereby revised as follows:
      (1)   Section 101.1   Insert: "City of Crestview Hills, Kentucky"
      (2)   Section 102.3   Revised to read as follows: Application of other
codes. Repairs, additions or alterations to a structure, or changes of
occupancy, shall be done in accordance with the procedures and provisions of
the International Building Code Kentucky Building Code. Kentucky Residential
Code, Kentucky Plumbing Code, International Energy Conservation Code,
International Fuel Gas Code, International Mechanical Code and the ICC
Electrical Code NFPA 70 National Electrical Code, and any applicable code
adopted and enforced by the Commonwealth of Kentucky. Nothing in this code
shall be construed to cancel, modify or set aside any provision of the
International Zoning Code City of Crestview Hills Zoning Regulations.
      (3)   Section 103.5   Delete in its entirety.
      (4)   Section 106.3   Insert: ". . . shall be deemed guilty of a Class
"B" misdemeanor"
      (5)   Section 106.4
         Delete: "Any person who shall violate a provision of this code, or
fail to comply therewith, or with any of the requirements thereof, shall be
prosecuted within the limits provided by state or local laws."
         Insert: "One Notice of Violation shall be sent to the owner and/or
occupant of a certain property regarding a specified violation or violations
per calendar year. All subsequent notices will be in the form of a citation.
The citation shall contain civil penalties as may be established by the Kenton
County, Kentucky Code Enforcement Board from time to time."
      (6)   Section 111.1
         Delete: "board of appeals"
         Insert: "Code Enforcement Board"
      (7)   Section 111.2.
         Delete: "board of appeals"
         Insert: "Code Enforcement Board"
         Delete: "chief appointing authority"
         Insert: "Mayor with approval from City Council"
      (8)   Section 111.2.1
         Delete: "chief appointing authority"
         Insert: "Mayor with approval from City Council"
      (9)   Section 111.7
         Delete: "appropriate court for a writ of certiorari to correct errors
of law"
         Insert: "Kenton County Circuit Court within thirty (30) days of the
final decision of the appeals board (Code Enforcement Board)"
      (10)   Section 201.3   Revised to read as follows: "Terms defined in
other codes. Where terms are not defined in this code and are defined in the
International Building Code, International Fire Code, International Zoning
Code, International Plumbing Code, International Mechanical Code or the ICC
Electrical Code Kentucky Building Code, Kentucky Residential Code, City of
Crestview Hills Zoning Ordinance, Kentucky Plumbing Code, NFPA 70 National
Electrical Code, or any other applicable code adopted and enforced by the
Commonwealth of Kentucky, such terms shall have the meanings ascribed to them
as stated in those codes.
      (11)   Section 302.4   Insert: "eight (8) inches."
      (12)   Section 304.14   Insert: "April 1 to October 31"
      (13)   Section 401.3
         Delete: "International Building Code"
         Insert: "Kentucky Building Code, Kentucky Residential Code or any
applicable code adopted and enforced by the Commonwealth of Kentucky"
      (14)   Section 505.1
         Delete: "International Plumbing Code"
         Insert: "Kentucky Plumbing Code"
      (15)   Section 602.2
         Delete: "Appendix D of the International"
         Insert: "Kentucky"
      (16)   Section 602.3   Insert: "October 1 to April 1"
      (17)   Section 602.3(1)
         Delete: "Appendix D of the International"
         Insert: "Kentucky"
      (18)   Section 602.4   Insert "October 1 to April 1"
      (19)   Section 604.2
         Delete: "ICC Electrical Code"
         Insert: "NFPA 70 National Electrical Code"
      (20)   Section 702.1   Insert: "Means of egress shall comply with the
Kentucky Building Code and the International Fire Code."
      (21)   Section 702.2   Insert: "The required width of aisles in
accordance with the Kentucky Building Code and the International Fire Code . .
."
      (22)   Section 702.3
         Delete: "International Building Code"
         Insert: "Kentucky Building Code"
      (23)   Section 704.1   Insert: " . . at all times in accordance with the
Kentucky Building Code and the International Fire Code."
(Ord. 2009-09-01, passed 10-8-09)
§ 150.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   For failure to apply for and pay the requisite building permit fee as
provided for in §
150.02 prior to commencement of construction or zoning permit fee where
necessary, a civil penalty shall be assessed by the city through the City
Building Inspector in an amount of two (2) times the cost of the fee, had
timely application for the permit been made by the applicant. However, in all
instances where a building permit or zoning permit is not timely obtained and
the requisite fee paid a minimum civil penalty in the amount of fifty dollars
($50) is hereby assessed. No fee is to be paid to the Building Inspector on the
penalty amount.
(Ord. 1988-12-3, passed 1-12-89; Am. Ord. 1989-9-1, passed 10-12-89)
   (B)   Whoever violates the provisions of §
150.05 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be subject to a fine of $500,
and each day of the violation shall be considered a separate offense.
(Ord. 1988-11-1, passed 12-8-88)
CHAPTER 151: SWIMMING POOLS
§ 151.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   "OWNER." An owner, occupant, user, tenant or lessee.
   "SWIMMING POOL." Any structure or artificial body of water located on
private or public property, constructed or maintained for the purpose of
swimming or wading by adults or children and containing water in a depth of
more than two feet.
(Ord. 1972-7-1, passed 7-5-72) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.02 FENCE OR BARRIER REQUIRED.
   Every swimming pool shall be completely surrounded by a protective fence or
barrier not less than four (4) feet in height, which shall be so constructed as
not to have openings, holes, or gaps larger than four (4) inches in any
dimension except for doors and gates. All gates or doors opening through such
enclosure shall be equipped with a self-closing and self-latching device for
keeping the gate or door securely closed at all times when not in actual use,
except that the door of any dwelling which forms a part of the enclosure need
not be so equipped. The requirements of this chapter shall be applicable to all
new and existing swimming pools. Owners of existing pools shall have sixty (60)
days from the effective date of this section to conform.
(Ord. 1972-7-1, passed 7-5-72) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.03 COMPLIANCE WITH ZONING.
   All pools constructed after the passage and publication of this section
shall be constructed in accordance with existing zoning provisions.
(Ord. 1972-7-1, passed 7-5-72) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.04 EXCEPTION.
   Excepted from the requirements of this chapter are all owners or keepers of
swimming pools which as a regular course retain and use the services of a
lifeguard.
(Ord. 1972-7-1, passed 7-5-72)
§ 151.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any of the provisions of this chapter shall be guilty of a
violation and shall be fined not less than ten dollars ($10) nor more than one
hundred dollars ($100) and each day that the violation continues in effect
shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 1972-7-1, passed 7-5-72)
CHAPTER 152: ZONING
Section
Comprehensive Plan
   
152.01   Comprehensive plan adopted
Zoning Code
   
152.05   Zoning code adopted
   
152.06   Exception
   
152.07   Public inspection
   
152.08   Establishment of RP-1 District
Administration
   
152.20   Board of Adjustment; compensation
   
152.21   Zoning Administrator's fees for matter heard by Board of Adjustment
   
152.22   Representative to County and Municipal Planning and Zoning Commission;
compensation
   
152.23   Fee schedule for Board of Adjustment hearings
Cluster Mail Box Units
   
152.35   Cluster Mail Box Units Prohibited in Single Family Detached Dwelling
Units
   
152.36   Permitted in Other Areas
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN
§ 152.01 COMPREHENSIVE PLAN ADOPTED.
   The City Council does hereby adopt and make a part of this code by reference
that portion of the Kenton County Comprehensive Plan as it applies to the City
of Crestview Hills.
(Ord. 82-12-1, passed 1-13-83; Am. Ord. 2013-08-03, passed 9-12-13)
ZONING CODE
§ 152.05 ZONING CODE ADOPTED.
   The "proposed zoning ordinance" attached hereto and made a part hereof by
reference and dated July 14, 1983, is adopted as the official zoning ordinance
of the city.
(Ord. 1983-6-1, passed 7-14-83; Am. Ord. 1987-4-1, passed 5-14-87; Am. Ord.
1987-5-5, passed 6-11-87; Am. Ord. 1987-8-1, passed 9-10-87; Am. Ord. 1987-10-
1, passed 11-12-87; Am. Ord. 1987-12-2, passed 1-14-88; Am. Ord. 1987-12-3,
passed 1-14-88; Am. Ord. 1988-4-1, passed 5-12-88; Am. Ord. 1989-3-2, passed 4-
13-89; Am. Ord. 1989-7-1, passed 8-10-89; Am. Ord. 1989-7-2, passed 8-10-89;
Am. Ord. 1989-11-1, passed 12-4-89; Am. Ord. 1990-7-3, passed 8-9-90; Am. Ord.
1990-9-2, passed 10-11-90; Am. Ord. 1990-9-3, passed 10-11-90; Am. Ord. 1990-9-
4, passed 10-11- 90; Am. Ord. 1990-11-1, passed 12-13-90; Am. Ord. 1990-12-1,
passed 1-10-91; Am. Ord. 1991-1-1, passed 2-14-91; Am. Ord. 1991-11-2, passed
12-12-91; Am. Ord. 1992-9-1, passed 10-19-92; Am. Ord. 1993-1-1, passed 2-11-
93; Am. Ord. 1993-1-2, passed 2-11-93; Am. Ord. 1993-1-3, passed 2-11-93; Am.
Ord. 1994-2-1, passed - -94; Am. Ord. 1994-8-1, passed 8-11-94; Am. Ord. 1995-
10-1, passed 11-9-95; Am. Ord. 1998-3-1, passed 7-9-98; Am. Ord. 1998-9-2,
passed 10-8-98; Am. Ord. 1999-4-1, passed 5-13-99; Am. Ord. 2000-1-1, passed 2-
10-00; Am. Ord. 2000-9-1, passed 10-12-00; Am. Ord. 2000-1-1, passed 2-8-01;
Am. Ord. 2001-12-3, passed 1-10-02; Am. Ord. 2001-12-4, passed 1-10-02; Am.
Ord. 2002-11-1, passed 12-12-02; Am. Ord. 2003-8-1, passed 9-11-2003; Am. Ord.
2003-12-1, passed 1-8-04; Am. Ord. 2004-2-1, passed 3-11-04; Am. Ord. 2004-2-2,
passed 3-11-04; Am. Ord. 2004-9-1, passed 10-14-04; Am. Ord. 2006-6-1, passed
7-13-06; Am. Ord. 2008-2-1, passed 4-10-08; Am. Ord. 2008-10-1; Am. Ord. 2009-
09-02, passed 10-8-09; Am. Ord. 2009-09-03, passed 10-8-09; Am. Ord. 2011-06-
01, passed 7-14-11; Am. Ord. 2013-02-01, passed 3-14-13; Am. Ord. 2014-05-02,
passed 6-12-14; Am. Ord. 2014-06-01, passed 7-10-14; Am. Ord. 2017-01-02,
passed 2-9-17; Am. Ord. 2017-11-01, passed 12-14-17; Am. Ord. 2017-11-02,
passed 12-14-17; Am. Ord. 2018-02-01, passed 3-8-2018; Am. Ord. 2018-04-01,
passed 5-10-18; Am. Ord. 3028-10-01, passed 11-8-18; Am. Ord. 2018-10-02,
passed 11-8-18; Am. Ord. 2019-08-03, passed 8-29-19; 2019-10-01, passed 11-14-
19; Am. Ord. 2021-10-01, passed 11-11-21; Am. Ord. 2022-03-01, passed 4-14-22;
Am. Ord. 2023-01-01, passed 2-9-23; Am. Ord. 2024-12-01, passed 12-17-24)
_____________
Cross-reference
   Building and zoning permit fee schedule, see §
150.02
§ 152.06 EXCEPTION.
   There is an exception as follows:
   The city does not accept the recommendation of the Kenton County Municipal
Planning and Zoning Commission as pertains to 11.0, II because necessary
spacing for movement of vehicles, and egress and ingress thereto to and from
vehicles requires larger spacing, i.e. 10' x 20'.
(Ord. 1983-6-1, passed 7-14-83)
§ 152.07 PUBLIC INSPECTION.
   The official zoning ordinance of the city shall be available for public
inspection in the offices of the City Clerk.
(Ord. 1983-6-1, passed 7-14-83)
§ 152.08 ESTABLISHMENT OF RP-1 DISTRICT.
   Ordinance 1985-2-1, passed 3-14-85, which amends the existing Zoning
Ordinance (Ord. 77-6-1) by establishing a new zone known as the Research Park
(RP-1) Zone, and enacts rules and regulations pertinent thereto, is adopted by
reference and incorporated herein as if set out in its entirety. Copies of this
ordinance are available at the office of the City Clerk-Treasurer.
(Am. Ord. 1996-11-1, passed 11-14-96)
ADMINISTRATION
§ 152.20 BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT; COMPENSATION.
   The fees payable to each member of the Board of Adjustment of the city for
their services as members is fixed at an amount as set by ordinance per year
plus an additional amount as set by ordinance per session for each session held
and attended in excess of four in any calendar year.
(Ord. 1989-12-1, passed 1-11-90)
§ 152.21 ZONING ADMINISTRATOR'S FEES FOR MATTERS HEARD BY BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT.
   In all matters submitted to the Board of Adjustment for the city wherein the
services of the City Zoning Administrator shall be required, the said
Administrator shall be paid 60% of the fee paid by the applicant for the remedy
sought and the city shall retain 40% for administration costs.
(Ord. 1989-6-1, passed 7-14-89)
§ 152.22 REPRESENTATIVE TO COUNTY AND MUNICIPAL PLANNING AND ZONING COMMISSION;
COMPENSATION.
   The fee payable by the city to its representative to the Kenton County and
Municipal Planning and Zoning Commission for their services to such Commission
is fixed at an amount as set by ordinance per month.
(Ord. 1989-12-2, passed 11-11-90)
§ 152.23 FEE SCHEDULE FOR BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT HEARINGS.
   The following fees shall be paid to the city by applicants for the hereafter
set out matters to be heard and considered by the Board of Adjustment:
 
Conditional use permit:                                                $500
Dimensional variance:                                                  500
Change from one nonconforming use to another:                          500
Appeal of Zoning Administrator, plus attendant recording fees, if any. 500
 
(Ord. 1989-3-2, passed 4-13-89; Am. Ord. 210-12-01, passed 1-5-11)
CLUSTER MAIL BOX UNITS
§ 152.35 CLUSTER MAIL BOX UNITS PROHIBITED IN SINGLE FAMILY DETACHED DWELLING
UNITS.
   The construction and use of outside free-standing, independent cluster mail
boxes for the deposit or pickup of mail in the city is prohibited in all
residential zones of the city limited to Single Detached Single Family Dwelling
Units.
(Ord. 1993-5-2, passed 6-10-93)
§ 152.36 PERMITTED IN OTHER AREAS.
   The construction and use of outside free-standing independent cluster mail
boxes, for the deposit or pickup of mail is permitted in all other areas of the
city otherwise prohibited by §
152.35.
(Ord. 1993-5-2, passed 6-10-93)
CHAPTER 153: CITY DEVELOPMENT
§ 153.01 ESTABLISHMENT OF DOWNTOWN BUSINESS DISTRICT.
   The City Council finds and determines that it is proper and appropriate that
a certain tract or parcel of land situated within the corporate boundaries of
the city be designated as the downtown business district of the city pursuant
to the provisions of KRS 103.200(n). Accordingly, it is determined, declared,
ordered, and ordained that the following tract or parcel of land is hereby and
shall henceforth be designated as the downtown business district of the City of
Crestview Hills, Kentucky:
   Crestview Hills, Kentucky
   Downtown Business District
A certain tract or parcel of land consisting of 240 acres of land, more or
less, located in the City of Crestview Hills, Kentucky, and described by metes
and bounds as follows:
   Beginning at the intersection point of the south line of Highway I-275 and
the southeast line of the Thomas More College Property; thence in a
southwesterly direction along the southeast line of Thomas More College and the
southeast line of the City of Crestview Hills 2,517 feet to a point in the
northeast line of William Lubrecht; thence with the lines of Lubrecht and the
City of Crestview Hills corporation line, N 43°-48'W 227 feet, S 47°-21'W 882
feet, S 44°-03'E 450 feet, and S 27°-24'E 215 feet to a point; thence in a
southwesterly direction through the Thomas More College Property and the
corporate line between the cities of Crestview Hills and Edgewood, Kentucky,
1,720 feet more or less to a point in the southwest line of Thomas More
College; thence in a northwesterly direction along the common line between
Thomas More College and St. Elizabeth's Hospital N 43°-15'W 1,640 feet to a
point corner to St. Elizabeth Hospital; thence through the lands of Thomas More
College N 33°-49'W 1,813 feet to a point in the center of Thomas More Parkway;
thence leaving same N 17°-22'W 417 feet to a point in the south line of Highway
I-275; thence in an easterly direction along the south line of Highway I-275, a
distance of 6,150 feet to the place of beginning.
(Ord. 1985-4-1, passed 5-9-85; Am. Ord. 1998-9-3, passed 10-8-98)
CHAPTER 154: SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS
§ 154.01 USE OF MODEL HOMES LIMITED.
   (A)   In any subdivision model homes, newly constructed, shall be limited to
one in number.
   (B)   Model homes and the accompanying signs shall be permitted to continue
in use for the advertisement of the sale of other newly constructed homes in
the subdivision until the total remaining houses or lots remaining to be sold
within the subdivision are reduced to seven (7) in number or twenty-five
percent (25%) of the total number of units, whichever is lesser.
   (C)   As used in this section the term "model homes" shall mean homes newly
constructed and decorated for exhibition purposes to members of the general
public for sale. Said homes shall not generally be used for office purposes. A
portion of said building, limited to fifteen percent (15%) thereof, may be used
to exhibit plans, specifications and declarations for other homes that could be
constructed by the developer for an interested buyer. In determining the total
square footage of the model home the areas of the garage and basement shall not
be considered. In no event shall the home be used for the purpose of closing of
other real estate owned by the developer and held for sale to the general
public.
(Ord. 1988-8-1, passed 9-8-88) Penalty, see §
154.99
§ 154.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates the provisions of §
154.01 is guilty of a violation and shall be subject to a fine of $100 per day
that such section is violated, and each day in which the section is violated
shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 1988-11-2, passed 12-8-88)
CHAPTER 155: ELECTRICAL REGULATIONS
Section
   
155.01   Electrical permits
§ 155.01 ELECTRICAL PERMITS.
   (A)   Electrical permits shall be obtained prior to installation, addition,
alteration, repair, relocation, or removal of electrical wiring.
   (B)
      (1)   Adoption of One Stop Service Level 2. The city hereby adopts by
reference herein and attached at Appendix A to Ordinance 2005-04-02, Unified
"One Stop Shop" Service Level 2 offered by the Northern Kentucky Area Planning
Commission (NKAPC).
      (2)   Fees adopted by reference. The city hereby adopts by reference
herein and attached as Appendix B to Ordinance 2005-04-02 as if fully set forth
herein the Schedule of Fees dated January 2005, as recommended by the NKAPC for
the processing and issuance of zoning permits, building permits, electric
permits, Board of Adjustment hearing fees, and fines for violations of these
life safety codes when a violation of them has been classified as a civil
offense.
   (C)   All electrical permits shall be obtained from the building inspector
of the city.
(Ord. 1991-11-1, passed 12-12-91; Am. Ord. 2005-04-02, passed 5-12-05) Penalty,
see §
10.99.
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
      Table
         
I.   ZONING MAP CHANGES
         
II.   ANNEXATIONS
         
III.   CONTRACTS AND AGREEMENTS
         
IV.   FRANCHISES
         
V.   AD VALOREM TAXATION RATES
         
VI.   BONDS
TABLE I. ZONING MAP CHANGES
ORD. NO. DATE DESCRIPTION
ORD. NO.   DATE     DESCRIPTION
                    Rezoning a parcel of land containing 240 acres, more or
1985-2-2   3-14-85  less, beginning at the intersection point of the south line
                    of Highway I-275 and the southeast line of the Thomas More
                    College Property, from R-2B, PO-2, and INST, to RP-1.
                    Rezoning a parcel of land containing 46.6 acres located
1990-3-1   4-12-90  approximately 1,200 feet south of Interstate 275 and
                    approximately 500 feet northwest of the Horsebranch Road
                    from CO and R-2b to RP-1.
                    Rezoning a parcel of land containing 64.4 acres located
                  along the northwest side of Horsebranch Road, south of the
                    intersection of Horsebranch Road with Orphanage Road (S.R.
                    371) from CO to R-2b.
1993-1-4   2-11-93  Rezoning 41 acres located at the terminus of College Park
                    Drive from INST to R-2b.
                    Rezoning a .48 acre area located approximately 600 feet
1993-4-1   5-13-93  southeast of the terminus of College Park Drive and a 7.8
                    acre area located approximately 1,500 feet southeast of the
                    terminus of College Park Drive from INST to R-1Bc.
                    Rezoning 49 acres of an approximate 84 acre area located
1995-5-1   6-8-95   along the northwest side of Horsebranch Road, between
                    Orphanage Road and Thomas More Parkway, approximately 1,600
                    feet south of Orphanage Road from RP-1 to R-2b.
                    Rezoning 24 acres located along the north side of
2004-6-2   7-8-04   Horsebranch Road between Orphanage Road and Rhine Valley
                    Drive from R-2b to RP-1.
                    Rezoning approximately eight acres located along the north
2004-9-2   10-14-04 and south sides of College Park Drive, east of Turkeyfoot
                    Road from R-1Bc to R-1Bd.
2023-01-02 2-9-23   Rezoning approximately 26 acres located at the terminus of
                    Centre View Boulevard from RP-1 to R-2b.
                   
 
TABLE II. ANNEXATIONS
 
ORD. NO.   DATE     DESCRIPTION
                    Annexing 115 acres of unincorporated contiguous land
1986-4-1   5-8-86   beginning at the intersection point of the southerly right-
                    of-way line of I-275 and the easterly corporation line.
1995-9-1   10-12-95 Annexing certain unincorporated territory near the
                    intersection of Horsebranch Road and Orphanage Road.
                    Transferring one of two parcels of property located at 2525
2023-11-01 12-14-23 Legends Way from the City of Edgewood to the City of
                    Crestview Hills so that both parcels are located in the
                    City of Crestview Hills.
                   
 
TABLE III. CONTRACTS AND AGREEMENTS
ORD. NO. DATE DESCRIPTION
ORD. NO.        DATE      DESCRIPTION
                          Authorizing the execution of the interlocal
1988-7-1        7-21-88   cooperation agreement to establish the Kentucky
                          Municipal Risk Management Association.
1988-7-2        7-20-88   Approving participation by the city in the Kentucky
                          Municipal Risk Management Association.
                          Authorizing an interlocal compact between the city
1991-12-2       12-12-91  and the city of Edgewood, Kentucky as pertains to the
                          maintenance of the Horsebranch Road Extension.
                          Authorizing an interlocal compact agreement with
1996-8-3        - -       Kenton County to collect municipal occupational taxes
                          and license fees.
                          Authorizing the execution of an amendment to the
                          interlocal cooperation agreement establishing the
1996-8-5        9-12-96   telecommunications Board of Northern Kentucky
                          extending the 90 day limit to 180 days for
                          participation rights.
                          Authorizing an interlocal compact between the city
1997-3-1        4-10-97   and the City of Ft. Mitchell, Kentucky, to provide
                          fire protection and life squad protection.
                          Authorizing the execution of a second amendment to
1997-9-3        9-11-97   the interlocal cooperation agreement establishing the
                          telecommunications Board of Northern Kentucky.
                          Approving the agreement for the transfer and
2009-08-01      12-10-09  assignment of ownership of the Sanitation District
                          No. 1 storm water drainage system.
                          Approving an interlocal cooperation agreement between
                          the city of Crestview Hills and Kenton County, and
2009-10-01      11-12-09  several other cities, relating to the consolidated
                          collection and enforcement of certain county and
                          municipal occupational taxes and license fees, and
                          authorizing the Mayor to execute the same.
                          Approving a memorandum of agreement with the Kentucky
Res. 2011-04-01 4-14-11   Transportation Cabinet for repair of concrete median
                          and curbing on U.S. 25 (Dixie Highway) and State
                          Route 1303 (Turkeyfoot Road).
                          Authorizing the Mayor to enter into a contract with
Res. 2011-09-02 9-22-11   Jarco Construction, Inc. for the construction of a
                          sidewalk on U.S. 25 (Dixie Highway).
                          Approving an interlocal cooperation agreement between
                          the city of Crestview Hills and Kenton County Fiscal
                          Court, and the Cities of Bromley, Covington, Crescent
                          Springs, Edgewood, Elsmere, Erlanger, Fairview, Fort
2011-12-01      1-12-12   Mitchell, Fort Wright, Independence, Kenton Vale,
                          Lakeside Park, Ludlow, Park Hills, Tayor Mill, Ryland
                          Heights and Villa Hills relating to enforcement of
                          sate laws and local ordinances for the regulation of
                          animals and authorizing the Mayor to execute the
                          same.
                          Authorizing the Mayor to terminate the contract with
Res. 2012-03-01 3-8-12  Rural Metro for ALS services and to execute an
                          addendum to the existing fire/EMS contract with the
                          city of Fort Mitchell for ALS services.
                          Amending the renewal terms of the agreement for the
                          provision fo fire services and life squad protection
Res. 2013-02-01 2-14-13   with the city of Fort Mitchell, and approving the
                          renewal of the agreement for an additional one year
                          period.
                          Authorizing the Mayor to execute an agreement between
                          the city and the Kentucky Department of
Res. 2013-04-01 4-11-13   Transportation, allocating transportation enhancement
                          funds for median planting and enhancement on U.S. 25,
                          Dixie Highway.
                          Expressing intent to terminate an interlocal
                          agreement with the City of Erlanger for emergency
Res. 2013-04-02 4-11-13   dispatching services, and expressing an intent to
                          join the Kenton County Consolidated Communication
                          System.
                          Authorizing the Mayor to enter into a contract with
Res. 2013-05-01 5-9-13    Studio Graphique for consulting services for a
                          wayfinding signage system.
                          Authorizing the Mayor to enter into a contract with
Res. 2013-06-01 6-13-13   JPS Construction, Inc., for reconstruction of
                          University Circle (South) in the College Park
                          Subdivision.
                          Authorizing the Mayor to enter into a contract with
Res. 2013-06-02 6-13-13   CRU Cutters, LLC, for the construction of a
                          landscaped median on U.S. 25 (Dixie Highway).
                          Authorizing the Mayor to enter into a contract with
Res. 2013-08-01 8-8-13    TMS Construction, Inc., for the installation of an
                          eight inch stormwater drainage line on Woodspoint
                          Drive.
                          Authorizing the Mayor to enter into a contract with
Res. 2013-10-01 10-10-13  Paul Michels Construction, Inc., for the paving of a
                          portion of Vernon Drive in Old Crestview Subdivision.
                          Authorizing the Mayor to execute an agreement between
                          the city and the Kentucky Department of
Res. 2013-10-02 10-10-13  Transportation, allocating to the city FHWA surface
                          transportation funds for engineering design for the
                          construction of an additional lane on eastbount
                          Thomas More parkway.
                          Authorizing the Mayor to enter into a contract with
Res. 2013-12-03 12-12-13  CDS Associates for consulting engineering and project
                          management services for the Thomas More lane widening
                          project.
                          Authorizing the Mayor to enter into an interlocal
Res. 2014-02-01 2-13-14   agreement with the City of Fort Mitchell for fire
                          protection and emergency medical services for certain
                          portions of the City of Crestview Hills.
                          Authorizing the Mayor to enter into an interlocal
Res. 2014-02-02 2-13-14   agreement with the City of Edgewood for fire
                          protection and emergency medical services for certain
                          portions of the City of Crestview Hills.
                          Authorizing the Mayor to execute an interlocal
Res. 2014-04-01 4-10-14   agreement with five other cities in Kenton County to
                          form the Kenton County Joint Code Enforcement Board.
                          Authorizing the Mayor to enter into a contract with
Res. 2014-04-02 4-10-14   American Pavements, Inc., for the pavement crack
                          sealing of various city streets.
                          Authorizing the Mayor to enter into a contract with
Res. 2014-05-01 5-8-14    JPS Construction, Inc., for the reconstruction of
                          Campus Drive (South) from College Park Drive to
                          Dudley Road.
                          Authorizing the Mayor to execute an interlocal
Res. 2014-07-01 7-10-14   agreement with the Northern Kentucky Water District
                          for joint projects.
Res. 2014-10-02 10-14-14  Approving Addendum A to the City Administrator
                          employment agreement.
                          Authorizing the Mayor to execute an agreement with
                          the Kentucky Department of Transportation to provide
Res. 2014-11-01 11-13-14  funding for right-of-way acquisition for the
                          extension of the eastbound lane of Thomas More
                          Parkway.
                          Authorizing the Mayor to enter into a contract with
Res. 2014-12-01 1-8-15    Harmon Signs, Inc. for fabrication and installation
                          of wayfinding signage in the Thomas More Office Park.
                          Authorizing the Mayor to enter into a contract with
Res. 2015-02-01 2-10-15   Van Gorder, Walker & Company Inc. for auditing
                          services.
Res. 2015-03-01 4-9-15    Authorizing the Mayor to enter into a contract with
                          BZAK Landscaping, Inc.
                          Authorizing the Mayor to enter into a contract with
Res. 2015-04-01 4-9-15    CRU Cutters, LLC, for the installation of a
                          landscaped median on Turkeyfoot Road.
                          Approving an interlocal cooperation agreement between
                          the City of Crestview Hills, Kentucky and Kenton
                          County, and the Cities of Bromley, Covington,
                          Crescent Springs, Edgewood, Elsmere, Erlanger, Fort
2015-03-01      5-14-15   Mitchell, Fort Wright, Independence, Lakeside Park,
                          Ludlow, Park Hills, Ryland Heights, Taylor Mill and
                          Villa Hills relating to the consolidated collection
                          and enforcement of certain county and municipal
                          occupational taxes and license fees.
                          Authorizing the Mayor to enter into a contract with
Res. 2015-05-01 5-14-15   Rumpke of Kentucky, Inc. for residential curbside
                          solid waste and recycling.
                          Authorizing the Mayor to enter into a contract with
Res. 2015-05-02 5-14-15   M&W Excavation, Inc., for the reconstruction of
                          Campus Drive (North) from College Park Drive to the
                          cul- de-sac.
                          Approving a memorandum of agreement with the Northern
Res. 2015-07-01 7-9-15    Kentucky Area Development District and participating
                          local governments to prepare the Regional Hazard
                          Mitigation Plan.
                          Authorizing the Mayor to enter into a contract with
                          Paul Michels & Sons, Inc. for the milling and paving
Res. 2015-07-03 7-9-15    overlay of portions of Shinkle, Summit, and
                          Chancellor Drives, as well as a portion of Town
                          Center Boulevard.
                          Authorizing the Mayor to enter into a contract with
Res. 2015-08-01 8-13-15   JPS Construction, Inc. for the reconstruction of
                          University Circle (North) from College Park Drive to
                          the cul-de-sac.
                          Authorizing the Mayor to enter into an agreement with
                          the Northern Kentucky Sanitation District approving a
Res. 2015-09-01 9-10-15   cost-share agreement for the installation of new
                          storm sewer lines on Campus Drive and University
                          Circle.
                          Authorizing the Mayor to enter into a contract with
Res. 2015-10-01 10-8-15   Paul Michels & Sons Construction, Inc. for the
                          application of crack sealing material on various city
                          streets.
                          Approving the transfer of control of Time Warner
Res. 2015-10-02 10-8-15   Cable, Inc. and Insight Kentucky Partners II, LP to
                          Charter Communications.
                          Authorizing the Mayor to enter into an agreement with
Res. 2015-11-01 11-12-15  the Northern Kentucky Sanitation District #1 for
                          joint participation in the repairs and restoration of
                          private sewer laterals within city right of way.
                          Authorizing the Mayor to enter into a Master
                          interlocal cooperation agreement with the Northern
Res. 2015-11-02 11-12-15  Kentucky Sanitation District #1 for joint development
                          and funding of sanitary sewer and stormwater
                          projects.
                          Approving an amendment to the Lakeside Park/Crestview
2017-07-01      8-10-17   Hills Police Authority inter-governmental cooperative
                          agreement.
                          Adopting an amended interlocal agreement between the
                          Kenton County Fiscal Court, the city, and the Cities
2021-5-1        6-10-21   of Bromley, Crescent Springs, Edgewood, Elsmere, Fort
                          Wright, Independence, Kenton Vale, Lakeside Park,
                          Ludlow, Park Hills, Ryland Heights, Taylor Mill, and
                          Villa Hills for code enforcement services.
                         
 
TABLE IV: FRANCHISES
ORD. NO. DATE DESCRIPTION
ORD. NO.        DATE     DESCRIPTION
                         Granting and offering for sale a 20-year exclusive
1995-9-2        11-9-95  franchise to place electric transmission and
                         distribution facilities in public streets and places.
                         Accepting the bid of the Union Light, Heat and Power
1995-9-2A       5-9-96   Company as highest bidder for exclusive franchise to
                         place electric transmission and distribution.
                         Granting a non-exclusive 12-year franchise to TKR
1997-9-2        9-11-97  Cable of Northern Kentucky for cable television
                         services.
                         Granting and issuing a competitive, non- exclusive
                         franchise for a term of 12 years to and authorizing
2009-2-2        3-12-09  the execution of the franchise agreement with
                         Cincinnati Bell Extended Territories LLC for the
                         provision of cable services in the city.
                         Approving the transfer of control of the cable
Res. 2014-08-01 8-14-14  franchise from Time Warner Cable, Inc., to Comcast
                         Corporation.
                         Approving the transfer of control by Comcast
Res. 2014-10-01 10-14-14 Corporation of Insight Kentucky Partners, II, L.P.
                         (the franchisee) to Charter Communications.
                         Supporting elements of the 2008 Cable Needs Assessment
Res. 2015-07-02 6-9-15   Report for Boone and Kenton Counties in conjunction
                         with renewal of the franchise agreement with Time
                         Warner Cable, Inc.
                         Establishing a non-exclusive franchise for the use of
                         the public streets, alleys and other public
2017-01-03      2-9-17   transportation of the city for the transmission and
                         distribution of natural gas through and consumption
                         within the city.
                         Establishing a non-exclusive franchise for the use of
2017-01-04      2-9-17   the public streets, alleys and other public
                         transportation.
                         Establishing a non-exclusive franchise for the use of
2019-02-02      3-14-19  the pubic streets, alleys and other public grounds for
                         the distribution of natural gas.
                         Establishing a non-exclusive franchise for the use of
2019-02-03      3-14-19  the pubic streets, alleys and other public grounds for
                         the distribution of electricity.
                         Establishing a non-exclusive franchise for the use of
2019-11-01      12-12-19 the pubic rights-of-way for the installation and
                         maintenance of a telecommunications system.
                         Establishing a non-exclusive franchise for a combined
                         term of ten years with Cincinnati Bell Extended
2021-10-02      11-11-21 Territories LLC for the construction, erection,
                         installation, upgrade, maintenance, repair and
                         operation of a cable television system.
                         Establishing a non-exclusive franchise for a combined
                         term of ten years with Spectrum Mid-America, LLC, for
2023-08-03      9-14-23  the construction, erection, installation, upgrade,
                         maintenance, repair and operation of a cable
                         television system.
                        
 
TABLE V: AD VALOREM TAXATION RATES
ORD. NO. DATE TYPE RATE
ORD. NO.   DATE     TYPE                            RATE
1995-9-4   10-12-95 Real                            .1586 per $100
1995-9-5   10-12-95 Bank Stock                      .19 per fair cash value of
                                                    shares
1996-9-2   10-10-96 Real                            .1525 per $100
1997-9-4   10-9-97  Real                            .1525 per $100
1998-9-1   10-8-98  Real                            .1525 per $100
1999-9-1   10-14-99 Real                            .1525 per $100
2001-9-1   10-11-01 Real                            .1525 per $100
2002-9-1   10-10-02 Real                            .1525 per $100
2003-9-2   10-9-03  Real                            .1525 per $100
2004-8-1   9-9-04   Real                            .1525 per $100
2005-8-2   9-8-05   Real                            .1525 per $100
2006-9-1   9-15-06  Real                            .1525 per $100
2007-8-1   9-6-07   Real                            .1525 per $100
2008-8-1   9-11-08  Real                            .1415 per $100
2009-08-02 9-3-09   Real                            .1455 per $100
2010-05-02 7-8-10   Rate variation in real tax rate .025 per $100
2012-08-01 9-13-12  Real                            .1545 per $100
2013-08-01 9-12-13  Real                            .1570 per $100
2014-08-01 9-11-14  Real                            .160 per $100
2015-08-01 9-10-15  Real                            .161 per $100
2016-08-01 9-8-16   Real                            .160 per $100
2017-08-02 9-14-17  Real                            .160 per $100
2018-08-01 9-13-18  Real                            .165 per $100
2019-08-01 9-12-19  Real                            .168 per $100
2020-09-02 9-22-20  Real                            .158 per $100
2021-8-1   9-16-21  Real                            .162 per $100
2022-08-02 9-14-22  Real                            .167 per $100
2023-08-04 9-14-23  Real                            .165 per $100
2024-08-02 9-12-24  Real                            .151 per $100
                                                  
 
TABLE VI: BONDS
 
Ord. No.  Date     Description
1999-2-1  2-3-99   Issuing industrial building revenue bonds, Series 1999A
                   (Thomas More College Project)
2005-7-3  9-8-05   Issuing general obligation public project bonds, Series 2005
                   (Administration Building)
2008-11-3 12-11-08 Issuing industrial building revenue bonds, Series 2008
                   (Thomas More College Project)
                  
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Kentucky Revised Statutes
References to Ordinances
References to Resolutions
REFERENCES TO KENTUCKY REVISED STATUTES
KRS Section Code Section
KRS Section          Code Section
Sec. 181 Ky. Const.  110.01
                     30.01,
Sec. 228 Ky. Const.  30.20,
                     30.24  -
                     30.27
6.050                32.14
Ch. 13A              93.02
Ch. 13B              93.02
15.409               36.12
Ch. 31               36.12
Ch. 39A - 39F        34.030
42.450 - 42.495      33.04
43.050               33.04
Ch. 45A              36.12 ,
                     37.05
Ch. 56               36.12 ,
                     37.05
Ch. 61               31.31
61.168               36.12
61.169               36.12
61.300                
61.805 - 61.850      37.10
61.805(1)            37.01
61.805(2)            37.01
61.805(3)            37.01
61.805(4)            37.01
61.805(5)            37.01
61.810               37.05
61.810(1)(i)         37.05
61.815               37.06
61.820               37.07 ,
                     37.09
61.823               37.08 ,
                     37.09
61.823(2) - (4)      91.01
61.823(4)            37.09
61.826               37.09
61.840               37.09
61.846               37.10
61.848               37.10
61.870               36.01
61.870 et seq.       32.07
61.870 - 61.882      30.24
61.870 - 61.884      35.68 ,
                     36.05
61.870(1)(h)         36.01
61.870(10)(a) to (f) 36.05
61.872(1)            36.05
61.872(2)            36.05
61.872(3)            36.05
61.872(4)            36.06
61.872(5)            36.07
61.872(6)            36.08
61.874(1)            36.05
61.874(2)(b)         36.05
61.874(4)            36.05
61.874(5)            36.05
61.874(6)            36.05
61.876               36.05
61.876(4)            36.05
61.878               36.01,
                     36.12
61.880               36.09
61.882               36.09
61.884               36.11
62.060               30.01
65.003               35.02
65.120               72.01
65.870               Ch. 136
65.8801 - 65.8839    34.071,
                     34.075
65.8808(2)(b)1.      112.99
65.8808(2)(b)2.      112.99
65.8811              34.061
65.8811(1)(a)        34.061
65.8811(1)(b)        34.061
67.750               110.01
67.750 - 67.795      110.02,
                     110.06
67.753               110.08
67.753(2), (3)       110.08
67.753(4)            110.08
67.768               110.09
67.770               110.09
67.790               110.13 ,
                     110.99
82.082               110.01
82.605 - 82.640      72.28
82.625               72.26 ,
                     72.27
Ch. 83A              30.10
83A.010              30.01
83A.010(5)           10.02
83A.010(6)           10.02
83A.010(7)           10.02
83A.010(8)           10.02
83A.010(9)           10.02
83A.010(10)          10.02
83A.010(11)          10.02
83A.030(1)           31.02(B)
83A.040(2), (3)      30.14
83A.040(5)           30.16
83A.040(6)           30.11 ,
                     30.16
83A.040(7), (8)      30.14 ,
                     30.16
83A.045              30.10
83A.045(2)(b)        30.10
83A.047              30.10
83A.050              30.10
83A.050(1)           30.10
83A.060(1)           32.02
83A.060(2)           32.03
83A.060(3)           32.04
83A.060(4), (7)      32.05
83A.060(5)           32.06,
                     150.15
83A.060(6)           32.01
83A.060(8)           32.07,
                     32.08
83A.060(9)           32.09
83A.060(10)          32.10
83A.060(11)          32.11
83A.060(12), (13)    32.12
83A.060(14)          32.13
83A.060(15)          32.14
                     10.02,
83A.065              10.99 ,
                     110.04
83A.065(2)           113.99
83A.070              30.34
83A.070(1)           30.30
83A.070(2)           30.32
83A.070(3)           30.33
83A.070(4)           30.30
83A.075              30.34
83A.080(1)           30.20
83A.080(3)           30.21
83A.080(4)           30.12
83A.080(5)           30.13
83A.085(3)(d) - (f)  30.24
83A.090              30.22
83A.130 - 83A.150    30.14
83A.130(2)           31.02(A)
83A.130(3)           31.10
83A.130(4)           31.11
83A.130(5)           31.12
83A.130(6)           31.13
83A.130(7)           31.14
83A.130(8)           31.15
83A.130(9)           31.16
83A.130(10)          31.17
83A.130(11)          31.30,
                     31.31
83A.130(12)          31.32,
                     31.33
83A.130(13)          31.34
83A.170              30.10
83A.175              30.10
91A.010(6)           33.01
91A.010(7)           33.01
91A.010(8)           10.02
91A.020              33.02
91A.030              33.03
91A.040              33.04
91A.060              33.05
91A.200              33.11(A)
91A.210              33.10
91A.220              33.11
91A.230              33.12
91A.240              33.13
91A.260              33.15
91A.270              33.16
91A.280              33.17
91A.290              33.18
92.70 - 92.520       95.10
92.280               110.01
92.281               110.01
92.520               95.10
92.530               95.10
92.640               95.10
103.200(n)           153.01
Chs. 116-121         30.10
118                  30.10
Chapter 128          119.01
131.190              36.12
132.190(6)           95.31
132.200(7)           95.31
Ch. 136              116.01
136.270              95.31
136.270(3),(4),(5)   95.30
136.280              95.31
Ch. 154              36.12
174.100              91.01
174.100(1)           91.02
174.100(2)           91.03
174.100(3)           91.04
174.100(4)           91.05
174.100(5)           91.06
186.020              72.27
189.010(19)          70.01
189.290              71.25
189.338              70.15
189.378              71.30,
                     71.99(B)
189.378(1)           70.01
189.450(5),(6)       72.03
189.580              71.15
189.910              71.30
189.920              71.30
196.099              36.01
198B                 150.10
Chapter 199          119.06
199.894(3)           119.06
119.894(5)           119.06
Chapter 218B         119.06
218B.010             119.01
227.700 - 227.750    93.01 ,
                     93.05
227.700              93.01 ,
                     93.08
                     93.01  -
227.702              93.03 ,
                     93.08
227.704              93.01 ,
                     93.08
227.706              93.01
227.708              93.01
227.710              93.01 ,
                     93.02
227.715              93.02
227.715(7) - (9)     93.03
227.720              93.04
227.730              93.05
227.740              93.05
227.750              93.06
Ch. 242              113.01
243.070              113.04
258.215              90.08
278                  91.41
351.330              93.30
376.280              72.39
                     32.09,
Ch. 424              33.04,
                     33.14,
                     33.15
424.190(2)           33.04
424.220              33.04
446.010(1)           10.02
446.010(2)           10.02
446.010(9)           10.02
446.010(10)          10.02
446.010(12)          10.02
446.010(13)          10.02
446.010(14)          10.02
446.010(15)          10.02
446.010(17)          10.02
446.010(18)          10.02
446.010(23)          10.02
446.010(25)          10.02
446.010(26)          10.02
446.010(27)          10.02
446.010(28)          10.02
446.010(30)          10.02
446.010(31)          10.02
446.010(33)          10.02
446.010(37)          10.02
446.010(39)          10.02
446.010(43)          10.02
446.010(46)          10.02
446.010(47)          10.02
446.010(49)          10.02
446.010(55)          10.02
446.020(1)           10.03(A)
446.020(2)           10.03(B)
446.030              10.04
446.050              10.05
446.060              10.06
446.080(1)           10.03(C)
446.080(3)           10.03(D)
446.080(4)           10.03(E)
446.090              10.07
446.100              10.08
446.110              10.09
446.140              10.01
506.010              Ch. 138
506.030              Ch. 138
506.040              Ch. 138
506.080              Ch. 138
506.120              Ch. 138
507.020              Ch. 130
507.030              Ch. 130
507.040              Ch. 130
507.050              Ch. 130
508.010              Ch. 130
508.020              Ch. 130
508.025              Ch. 130
508.030              Ch. 130
508.040              Ch. 130
508.050              Ch. 130
508.060              Ch. 130
508.070              Ch. 130
508.075              Ch. 130
508.078              Ch. 130
508.080              Ch. 130
508.100              Ch. 130
508.110              Ch. 130
508.120              Ch. 130
509.020              Ch. 130
509.030              Ch. 130
509.040              Ch. 130
509.070              Ch. 137
509.080              Ch. 137
Ch. 510              139.04
510.040              Ch. 137
510.050              Ch. 137
510.060              Ch. 137
510.070              Ch. 137
510.080              Ch. 137
510.090              Ch. 137
510.100              Ch. 137
510.110              Ch. 137
510.120              Ch. 137
510.130              Ch. 137
510.140              Ch. 137
510.150              Ch. 137
511.020              Ch. 132
511.030              Ch. 132
511.040              Ch. 132
511.050              Ch. 132
511.060              Ch. 132
511.070              Ch. 132
511.080              Ch. 132
512.020              Ch. 132
512.030              Ch. 132
512.050              Ch. 132
512.060              Ch. 132
512.070              Ch. 132
512.080              Ch. 132
513.020              Ch. 132
513.030              Ch. 132
513.040              Ch. 132
513.060              Ch. 132
514.030              Ch. 132
514.040              Ch. 132
514.050              Ch. 132
514.060              Ch. 132
514.065              Ch. 132
514.070              Ch. 132
514.080              Ch. 132
514.090              Ch. 132
514.100              Ch. 132
514.110              Ch. 132
514.120              Ch. 132
514.140              Ch. 132
514.150              Ch. 132
515.020              Ch. 132
515.030              Ch. 132
516.020              Ch. 132
516.030              Ch. 132
516.040              Ch. 132
516.050              Ch. 132
516.060              Ch. 132
516.070              Ch. 132
516.090              Ch. 132
516.110              Ch. 132
516.120              Ch. 132
516.130              Ch. 132
517.020              Ch. 111
517.030              Ch. 111
517.040              Ch. 111
517.050              Ch. 111
517.060              Ch. 111
517.070              Ch. 111
517.080              Ch. 111
517.090              Ch. 111
517.090              Ch. 111
517.100              Ch. 111
517.110              Ch. 111
518.020              Ch. 111
518.030              Ch. 111
518.040              Ch. 111
518.050              Ch. 111
518.060              Ch. 111
518.070              Ch. 111
519.020              Ch. 135
519.030              Ch. 135
519.040              Ch. 135
519.050              Ch. 135
519.060              Ch. 135
520.010              36.01
520.020              Ch. 135
520.030              Ch. 135
520.040              Ch. 135
520.050              Ch. 135
520.060              Ch. 135
520.070              Ch. 135
520.080              Ch. 135
520.090              Ch. 135
520.100              Ch. 135
520.120              Ch. 135
520.130              Ch. 135
521.020              Ch. 135
521.030              Ch. 135
521.040              Ch. 135
522.020              Ch. 135
522.030              Ch. 135
522.040              Ch. 135
523.020              Ch. 135
523.030              Ch. 135
523.040              Ch. 135
523.100              Ch. 135
524.020              Ch. 135
524.030              Ch. 135
524.040              Ch. 135
524.050              Ch. 135
524.060              Ch. 135
524.070              Ch. 135
524.090              Ch. 135
524.100              Ch. 135
524.110              Ch. 135
524.130              Ch. 135
525.020              Ch. 136
525.030              Ch. 136
525.040              Ch. 136
525.050              Ch. 136
525.055              Ch. 136
525.060              Ch. 136
525.070              Ch. 136
525.080              Ch. 136
525.090              Ch. 136
525.100              Ch. 136
525.110              Ch. 136
525.120              Ch. 136
525.125              90.03,
                     Ch. 136
525.130              90.03,
                     Ch. 136
525.135              90.03
525.137              90.03
525.140              Ch. 136
525.145              Ch. 136
525.150              Ch. 136
525.160              Ch. 136
526.020              Ch. 136
526.030              Ch. 136
526.040              Ch. 136
526.050              Ch. 136
526.060              Ch. 136
528.020              Ch. 134
528.030              Ch. 134
528.040              Ch. 134
528.050              Ch. 134
528.060              Ch. 134
528.070              Ch. 134
528.080              Ch. 134
528.110              Ch. 134
528.120              Ch. 134
529.020              Ch. 133
529.070              Ch. 133
529.080              Ch. 133
529.100              139.04
529.110              139.04
530.010              Ch. 131
530.020              Ch. 131 ,
                     139.04
530.030              Ch. 131
530.040              Ch. 131
530.050              Ch. 131
530.060              Ch. 131
530.064              Ch. 131
530.064(1)(a)        139.04
530.065              Ch. 131
530.070              Ch. 131
530.080              Ch. 131
531.020              Ch. 133
531.030              Ch. 133
531.040              Ch. 133
531.050              Ch. 133
531.060              Ch. 133
531.310              Ch. 133 ,
                     139.04
531.320              Ch. 133 ,
                     139.04
531.335              139.04
531.340              Ch. 133 ,
                     139.04
531.350              Ch. 133
531.360              Ch. 133
531.370              Ch. 133
532.060              139.04
532.090              139.02
532.090(1)           113.99
534.030              139.03
534.040              10.99,
                     139.01
534.040(2)(a)        113.99
534.050(2)(a)        112.99
535.040(2)(c)        10.02
                     
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No.  Date Passed Code Section
1956-1    7-3-56      93.15 -
                      93.17
1969-1-1  1-69        71.60
1970-8-1  8-5-70      92.07
1970-10-1 10-7-70     72.50
1971-3-1  3-3-71      112.02, 112.10
                      151.01 -
1972-7-1  7-5-72      151.04,
                      151.99
1972-7-2  7-5-72      92.07
1973-2-1  2-14-73     Ch. 51
1973-4-2  4-11-73     72.06
1973-9-4  9-12-73     50.01 -
                      50.03
                      93.30 -
1976-9-4  9-8-769     93.33,
                      93.99 (C)
1977-8-2  8-10-77     95.20,
                      95.21
1977-12-1 12-14-77    32.07
1978-12-1 12-14-78    72.35 -
                      72.40
1979-7-1  7-12-79     136.01,
                      136.99
1979-7-2  7-12-79     72.02
1979-12-3 12-13-79    72.13
1980-2-2  2-14-80     31.31
1980-8-1  9-11-80     30.23
1981-2-1  3-12-81     113.03
1981-2-3  3-12-81     72.12
1981-2-4  3-12-81     150.02 -
                      150.03
1981-5-1  5-14-81     72.14
1981-10-1 9-10-81     50.01
                      114.01,
1981-12-2 1-14-82     114.02,
                      114.99
1982-9-1  11-11-82    92.07
1982-9-2  1-13-83     150.04
1982-12-1 1-13-83     152.01
1983-6-1  7-14-83     152.05 -
                      152.07
                      96.01  -
1983-12-1 1-12-84     96.03 ,
                      96.99
1984-4-1  5-10-84     72.99
                      93.40 -
1984-6-1  7-12-84     93.42,
                      93.99
1984-9-2  10-11-84    Adopting Ord.
1985-2-1  3-14-85     152.08
1985-2-2  3-14-85     T.S.O. I
1985-4-1  5-9-85      153.01
1985-8-1  - -         72.99
1985-8-2  - -         150.02
1986-2-1  3-13-86     30.22
1986-4-1  5-8-86      T.S.O. II
1986-6-1  3-12-87     70.07
1986-7-3  9-11-86     Ch. 75, Sched. I
1986-7-4  9-11-86     Ch. 75, Sched. I
1986-9-1  12-11-86    Ch. 115
1987-4-1  5-14-87     152.05
1987-5-4  6-11-87     Adopting Ord.
1987-5-5  6-11-87     152.05
1987-6-1  7-9-87      Ch. 74, Sched. I
1987-8-1  9-10-87     152.05
1987-8-2  9-10-87     150.03
1987-10-1 11-12-87    152.05
1987-12-2 1-14-88     152.05
1987-12-3 1-14-88     152.05
1988-1-1  2-11-88     94.02,
                      94.99
1988-4-1  5-12-88     152.05
1988-4-3  5-12-88     32.07
1988-4-4  5-12-88     71.28,
                      71.99
1988-6-2  7-14-88     Adopting Ord.
1988-7-1  7-20-88     T.S.O. III
1988-7-2  7-20-88     T.S.O. III
1988-7-3  8-11-88     Ch. 74, Sch. I
1988-8-1  9-8-88      154.01
1988-11-1 12-8-88     150.05,
                      150.99
1988-11-2 12-8-88     154.99
1988-12-3 1-12-89     150.99
1989-3-2  4-13-89     152.05,
                      152.23
1989-6-1  7-14-89     152.21
1989-7-1  8-10-89     152.05
1989-7-2  8-10-89     152.05
1989-8-2  9-14-89     Adopting Ord.
1989-9-1  10-12-89    150.99
1989-11-1 12-14-89    152.05
1989-12-1 1-11-90     152.20
1989-12-2 1-11-90     152.22
1990-3-1  4-12-90     T.S.O. I
1990-7-1  7-12-90     Repealed
1990-7-3  8-9-90      152.05
1990-7-4  8-9-90      Adopting Ord.
1990-8-1  9-13-90     93.08,
                      93.99
1990-9-1  11-8-90     Repealed
1990-9-2  10-11-90    152.05
1990-9-3  10-11-90    152.05
1990-9-4  10-11-90    152.05
1990-11-1 12-13-90    152.05
1990-12-1 1-10-91     152.05
1991-1-1  2-14-91     152.05
1991-4-1  5-9-91      112.11
1991-9-1  10-10-91    92.07
1991-10-1 11-11-91    Adopting Ord.
1991-11-1 12-12-91    Ch. 155
1991-11-2 12-12-91    152.05
1991-12-2 12-12-91    T.S.O. III
1992-8-1  9-10-92     Adopting Ordinance
1992-8-2  9-10-92     34.001  -
                      34.007
1992-9-1  10-19-92    152.05
1993-1-1  2-11-93     152.05
1993-1-2  2-11-93     152.05
1993-1-3  2-11-93     152.05
1993-1-4  2-11-93     T.S.O. I
1993-4-1  5-13-93     T.S.O. I
1993-5-2  6-10-93     152.35,
                      152.36
1993-5-4  6-10-93     95.30
1994-8-1  8-11-94     152.05
1994-9-2  10-13-94    95.31
1994-12-1 12-8-94     Ch. 35
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description Code Section
Ord. No.   Date Passed     Description                        Code Section
1995-3-1   3-9-95          Amending portions of the building  150.04
                           code regarding terms and fees
1995-5-1   6-8-95          Zoning map change                  T.S.O. I
1995-5-2   - -             Adopting annual budget for FY 95-  Not Included
                           96
1995-9-1   10-12-95        Proposing to annex certain         T.S.O. II
                           territory
1995-9-2   11-9-95         Granting electric franchise        T.S.O. IV
1995-9-4   10-12-95        Ad valorem tax - real property     95.10,
                                                              T.S.O. V
1995-9-5   10-12-95        Ad valorem tax - bank shares       95.31,
                                                              T.S.O. V
1995-10-1  11-9-95         Amending zoning regulations        152.05
1995-9-2A  5-9-96          Accepting bid of Union Light Heat  T.S.O. IV
                           and Power Company
1996-3-1   - -             Restricting parking on city        72.03 (B), 
                           building parking lots              72.99(D)
1996-4-1   5-15-96         Issuance of grant anticipation     Not Included
                           notes
1996-5-1   7-1-96          FY Annual 1996-97 Budget           Not Included
1996-8-2   9-12-96         Issuance of Industrial Building    Not Included
                           Revenue Bonds, Series 1996
                           Agreement with Kenton County to
1996-8-3   - -             collect municipal occupation taxes T.S.O. III
                           and license fees
1996-8-4   - -             Installing a stop sign at Centre   Ch. 74, Sched. I
                           View Blvd. and Chancellor Drive
                           Adopting Interlocal Cooperation
1996-8-5   9-12-96         Agreement establishing the         T.S.O. III
                           Telecommunications Board of N.
                           Kentucky
1996-11-1  11-14-96        Amending zoning ordinance          152.08
                           establishing RP-1 District
1997-1-1   2-13-97         Reducing the speed limit on Thomas 71.60
                           More Parkway
1997-2-1   2-13-97         Imposing a bank franchise and      Ch. 116
                           local deposit tax
                           Providing for an Interlocal
1997-3-1   4-10-97         Compact for fire and life squad    T.S.O. III
                           protection
1997-5-1   6-19-97         Adopting the annual budget for FY  Not Included
                           1997-1998
1997-6-1   6-19-97         Amending the annual budget for FY  Not Included
                           1996-1997
1997-6-2   8-14-97         Providing for the collection and   Ch. 52
                           disposition of garbage
1997-9-1   9-11-97         Creating the position of Vice-     30.15
                           Mayor
                           Granting a non-exclusive franchise
1997-9-2   9-11-97         agreement to TKR Cable of Northern T.S.O. IV
                           Kentucky
                           Authorizing the execution of a
1997-9-3   9-11-97         second amendment to the Interlocal T.S.O. III
                           Cooperation Agreement establishing
                           the Telecommunications Board
1997-9-4   10-9-97         Providing for the levy of ad       T.S.O. V
                           valorem taxes on real property
1996-9-2   10-10-96        Amending ad valorem taxes          95.13,
                                                              T.S.O. V
1998-3-1   07-09-98        Amending zoning ordinance          152.05
1998-5-1   06-11-98        Adopting annual budget FY 1998-    Not Included
                           1999
1998-9-1   10-08-98        Amending ad valorem taxes          T.S.O. V
1998-9-2   10-08-98        Amending zoning ordinance          152.05
1998-9-3   10-08-98        Amending Stage I Development Plan  152.01
1999-4-1   05-13-99        Amending zoning ordinance          152.05
1999-5-1   6-10-99         Adopting annual budget FY 1999-    Not Included
                           2000
1999-5-2   6-10-99         Amending annual budget FY 1998-    Not Included
                           1999
1999-9-1   10-14-99        Providing for the levy of ad       T.S.O. V
                           valorem taxes on real property
1999-12-1  1-13-00         Amending annual budget FY 1999-    Not Included
                           2000
1999-12-2  1-13-00         Establishing compensation of mayor 31.18,
                           and city council members           31.35
2000-1-1   2-10-00         Amending zoning ordinance          152.05
2000-9-1   10-12-00        Amending zoning ordinance          152.05
2000-12-1  12-14-00        Amending annual budget FY 2000-    Not Included
                           2001
2000-12-2  12-13-01        Restricting the hours when         52.04,
                           dumpsters can be emptied           52.99(B)
2000-12-3  1-11-01         Amending traffic schedules for     Ch. 74, Sch. I,
                           stop intersections and fire lanes  Ch. 75, Sch. I
2001-1-1   2-8-01          Amending zoning ordinance          152.05
2001-4-1   5-10-01         Regarding speed limits             71.60
2001-5-1   6-14-01         Adopting annual budget FY 2001-    Not Included
                           2002
2001-5-2   6-14-01         Declaring a condition a nuisance   92.03(I)
2001-6-1   7-12-01         Amending stop intersections        Ch. 74, Sch. I
2001-8-1   9-13-01         Designating a director of          Not Included
                           emergency management
2001-9-1   10-11-01        Providing for the levy of ad       T.S.O. V
                           valorem taxes on real property
2001-12-1  12-13-01        Amending annual budget FY 2001-    Not Included
                           2002
2001-12-3  1-10-02         Amending zoning ordinance          152.05
2001-12-4  1-10-02         Amending zoning ordinance          152.05
2002-5-1   7-1-2002        Adopting annual budget FY 2002-    Not Included
                           2003
2002-9-1   10-10-2002      Providing for the levy of ad       T.S.O. V
                           valorem taxes on real property
2002-11-1  12-12-2002      Amending zoning ordinance          152.05
          2-13-2003       Credit of occupational license fee Not Included
2003-5-1   7-1-2003        Adopting annual budget FY 2003-    Not Included
                           2004
2003-5-2   6-19-03         Security cap devices for buildings 93.25
                           with sprinkler systems
2003-8-1   9-11-2003       Amending zoning ordinance          152.05
2003-9-2   10-9-2003       Providing for the levy of ad       T.S.O. V
                           valorem taxes on real property
2003-11-1  12-11-2003      Establishing compensation of mayor 31.18,
                           and city council members           31.35
2003-12-1  1-8-2004        Amending zoning ordinance          152.05
2004-2-1   3-11-2004       Amending zoning ordinance          152.05
2004-2-2   3-11-2004       Amending zoning ordinance          152.05
2004-5-1   7-1-04          Adopting annual budget FY 2004-    Not Included
                           2005
2004-6-2   7-8-04          Zoning map change                  T.S.O. I
2004-8-1   9-9-04          Providing for the levy of ad       T.S.O. V
                           valorem taxes on real property
2004-9-1   10-14-04        Amending zoning ordinance          152.05
2004-9-2   10-14-04        Zoning map change                  T.S.O. I
2005-04-1  5-12-05         Adopting 2002 Residential Code     150.10
2005-04-02 5-12-05         "One Stop Shop" fees for building, 150.02,
                           zoning and electrical permits      155.01
2005-5-1   7-1-05          Adopting annual budget FY 2005-    Not Included
                           2006
2005-5-2   7-1-04          Adopting annual budget FY 2004-    Not Included
                           2005
2005-7-3   9-8-05          Issuance of bonds                  T.S.O. VI
2005-8-2   9-8-05          Providing for the levy of ad       T.S.O. V
                           valorem taxes on real property
2006-1-1   2-9-06          Amending provision on restoration  Repealed
                           of pavement
2006-3-1   4-13-06         Amending animal provisions         Repealed
2006-5-1   6-8-06          Adopting annual budget FY 2006 -   Not Included
                           2007
2006-6-1   7-13-06         Amending zoning code               152.05
2006-9-1   9-15-06         Providing for the levy of ad       T.S.O. V
                           valorem taxes on real property
2007-2-1   3-15-07         Joint Code Enforcement Board       Repealed
2007-5-1   - -07           Adopting annual budget FY 2007 -   Not Included
                           2008
2007-8-1   9-6-07          Providing for the levy of ad       T.S.O. V
                           valorem taxes on real property
2007-8-3   9-13-07         Distilled Spirits and Malt         30.27
                           Beverage Administrator
2007-8-4   9-13-07         Code Enforcement Officer           30.25
2007-9-1   10-11-07        Stop intersections                 Ch. 74, Sch. I
                                                              110.01 ,
2007-12-1  12-13-08        Occupational license               110.04  -
                                                              110.11 ,
                                                              110.13
2008-2-1   4-10-08         Zoning Code amendment              152.05
2008-2-2   4-10-08         Amending meetings                  31.31
2008-2-3   4-10-08         Obstructional parking              72.01 ,
                                                              72.99
2008-4-2   4-14-08         Easement                           Not Included
2008-05-01 6-12-08         911 emergency telephone service    Repealed
2008-5-2   6-12-08         Adopting annual budget FY 2008 -   Not Included
                           2009
2008-8-1   9-11-08         Providing for the levy of ad       T.S.O. V
                           valorem taxes on real property
2008-10-1  11-13-08        Zoning Code amendment              152.05
2008-11-1  12-11-08        Zoning Administrator               30.26
2008-11-2  12-11-08        Business regulatory license        Not Included
                           amendment
2008-11-3  12-11-08        Issuance of bonds                  T.S.O. VI
2009-2-2   3-12-09         Franchise                          T.S.O. IV
                                                              113.01 ,
                                                              113.02 ,
2009-4-1   5-14-09         Alcoholic Beverages                113.04  -
                                                              113.12 ,
                                                              113.99
2009-5-1   5-21-09         Amending annual budget FY 2008 -   Not Included
                           2009
2009-5-2   6-11-09         Adopting annual budget FY 2009 -   Not Included
                           2010
2009-07-01 8-13-09         Personnel Policies                 Repealed
2009-08-01 12-10-09        Agreement                          T.S.O. III
2009-08-02 9-3-09          Providing for the levy of ad       T.S.O. V
                           valorem taxes on real property
2009-09-01 10-8-09         International Property Maintenance 150.15
                           Code adoption; amendments
2009-09-02 10-8-09         Zoning Code amendment              152.05
2009-09-03 10-8-09         Zoning Code amendment              152.05
2009-10-01 11-12-09        Agreement                          T.S.O. III
2009-12-1  1-14-10         Recreational fires, outdoor        93.41 ,
                           cooking fires                      93.43
2010-05-01 6-10-10         Adopting annual budget FY 2010 -   Not Included
                           2011
                           Rate variation reducing the ad
2010-05-02 7-8-10          valorem property tax rate for      T.S.O. V
                           residential properties
                                                              95.11 ,
2010-06-01 7-8-10          Taxation                           95.13 ,
                                                              95.14
                           Setting the fee payable by the
2010-08-01 9-9-10          city to its representative to the  Not Included
                           Planning and Zoning Commission
                           Providing for the levy,
2010-08-02 8-12-10         apportionment and collection of    Not Included
                           taxes and revenue of the city for
                           2010
2010-12-01 1-5-11          Amending fee schedule for Board of 152.23
                           Adjustment Hearings
2011-05-01 6-9-11          Amending nuisance regulations for  92.03
                           keeping animals
2011-05-02 6-6-11          Amending the annual budget FY      Not Included
                           2010-2011
2011-05-03 6-6-11          Adopting the annual budget FY      Not Included
                           2010- 2011
2011-06-01 7-14-11         Zoning Code amendment              152.05
                           Providing for the levy,
2011-08-01 9-8-11          apportionment and collection of    Not Included
                           taxes and revenue of the city for
                           2011
                           Interlocal agreement regarding the
2011-12-01 1-12-12         enforcement of state laws and      T.S.O. III
                           regulation of animals
2012-05-01 6-14-12         Amending theannual budget for FY   Not Included
                           2011-2012
2012-05-02 6-14-12         Adopting the annual budget for FY  Not Included
                           2012-2013
2012-07-01 7-19-12         Street closure                     Not Included
2012-08-01 9-13-12         Providing for the levy of ad       T.S.O. V
                           valorem taxes on real property
2012-10-01 12-13-12        Repealing telephone (911) service  Not Included
                           charge
2012-11-01 12-13-12        Amending the annual budget for FY  Not Included
                           2012-2013
2013-02-01 3-14-13         Zoning Code amendments             152.05
2013-05-01 6-13-13         Adopting the annual budget for FY  Not Included
                           2013-2014
2013-05-02 6-13-13         Amending the annual budget for FY  Not Included
                           2013-2014
2013-08-01 9-12-13         Providing for the levy of ad       T.S.O. V
                           valorem taxes on real property
                           Repealing and replacing, in its    112.01  -
2013-08-02 10-10-13        entirety, Chapter 112 regarding    112.08 ,
                           peddlers, itinerant merchants,     112.99
                           solicitors, and canvassers
2013-08-03 9-12-13         Amending the Comprehensive Plan    152.01
                                                              113.01 ,
2013-09-01 10-10-13        Amending regulations regarding     113.04 ,
                           alcoholic beverage licenses        113.07 ,
                                                              113.10
2014-04-01 5-8-14          Joint Code Enforcement Board       Repealed
2014-04-02 5-8-14          Adopting S-20 Supplement           Not Included
2014-05-01 6-12-14         Adopting the annual budget for FY  Not Included
                           2014-2015
2014-05-02 6-12-14         Zoning Code amendments             152.05
2014-06-01 7-10-14         Zoning Code amendments             152.05
                           Providing for the levy,
2014-08-01 9-11-14         apportionment and collection of    T.S.O. V
                           taxes and revenue of the city for
                           2014
                           Establishing a special assessment
2014-10-01 10-28-14        district to fund the Thomas More   Not Included
                           Office Park Wayfinding Signage
                           Project
2014-10-02 11-13-14        Personnel Policies                 38.01
2014-12-01 1-8-15          Amending the annual budget for FY  Not Included
                           2014- 2015
                           Approving an interlocal agreement
2015-03-01 5-14-15         relating to collection of          T.S.O. III
                           occupational taxes and license
                           fees
2015-05-01 6-11-15         Adopting the annual budget for FY  Not Included
                           2015- 2016
2015-05-02 6-11-15         Amending the annual budget for FY  Not Included
                           2014- 2015
2015-06-01 7-9-15          Amending parking regulations       72.03 ,
                                                              72.99
                           Designating the Homeland Security
                           and Emergency Management Director
2015-06-02 7-9-15          of Kenton County to serve as the   34.030
                           Director of Emergency Management
                           for the city
                           Providing for the levy,
2015-08-01 9-10-15         apportionment and collection of    T.S.O. V
                           taxes and revenue of the city for
                           2015
                           Providing for regulations on       117.01  -
2016-03-01 4-14-16         rental properties                  117.07 ,
                                                              117.99
2016-05-01 6-7-16          Adopting the annual budget for FY  Not Included
                           2016-2017
2016-05-02 6-7-16          Amending the annual budget for FY  Not Included
                           2015- 2016
                           Providing for a credit of its
2016-05-03 6-7-16          occupational license fee for an    Not Included
                           economic development project
2017-07-01 8-11-16         Amending dates for renewal of      113.07
                           alcoholic licenses
2016-07-02 8-11-16         Street closure                     Not Included
                           Providing for the levy,
2016-08-01 9-8-16          apportionment and collection of    T.S.O. V
                           taxes and revenue for 2016
2017-01-01 2-9-17          Establishing the College Park      Not Included
                           Reinvestment Grant Program
2017-01-02 2-9-17          Zoning Code amendments             152.05
                           Establishing a non-exclusive
2017-01-03 2-9-17          franchise for public streets,      T.S.O. IV
                           alleys and other public
                           transportation
                           Establishing a non-exclusive
2017-01-04 2-9-17          franchise for the use of the pubic T.S.O. IV
                           streets, alleys and other public
                           transportation
2017-05-01 6-8-17          Adopting the annual budget for FY  Not Included
                           2017-2018
2017-05-02 6-8-17          Establishing the College Park      Not Included
                           Reinvestment Grant Program
                           Amending the police authority
2017-07-01 8-10-17         intergovernmental cooperative      T.S.O. III
                           agreement
2017-08-01 9-14-17         Establishing a Code Enforcement    34.060  -
                           Board                              34.075
                           Providing for the levy,
2017-08-02 9-14-17         apportionment and collection of    T.S.O. V
                           taxes and revenue for 2016
2017-09-01 10-12-17        Amending the annual budget for FY  Not Included
                           2017-2018
                           Creating and establishing an
2017-09-02 10-12-18        Energy Project Assessment District Not Included
                           (EPAD) and efficient use of energy
                           and water resource regulations
2017-10-01 11-9-17         Amending election procedure        30.10
                           standards
2017-11-01 12-14-17        Zoning Code amendments             152.05
2017-11-02 12-14-17        Zoning Code amendments             152.05
2018-02-01 3-8-18          Zoning Code amendments             152.05
2018-04-01 5-10-18         Establishing an Architectural      34.040  -
                           Review Board                       34.046
2018-05-01 6-14-18         Adopting the annual budget for FY  Not Included
                           2018-2019
2018-05-02 6-14-18         Amending the annual budget for FY  Not Included
                           2017-2018
                           Providing for the levy,
2018-08-01 9-13-18         apportionment and collection of    T.S.O. V
                           taxes and revenue for 2018
2018-08-02 9-13-18         Amending the waste collection and  95.21
                           recycling fee
2018-08-03 9-13-18         Increasing occupational license    110.06
                           fee
2018-09-01 10-11-18        Amending parking on city streets   72.06, 
                                                              72.99
2018-10-01 11-8-18         Zoning Code amendments             152.05
2018-10-02 11-8-18         Zoning Code amendments             152.05
                           Repealing excavation and           91.40  -
2018-11-01 12-13-18        construction regulation and        91.56 ,
                           adopting public right-of-way       91.99
                           regulations
                           Adopting small cell tower design   53.01  -
2019-02-01 3-14-19         guidelines                         53.19 ,
                                                              53.99
                           Establishing a non-exclusive
                           franchise for the use of the pubic
2019-02-02 3-14-19         streets, alleys and other public   T.S.O. IV
                           grounds for the distribution of
                           natural gas
                           Establishing a non-exclusive
                           franchise for the use of the pubic
2019-02-03 3-14-19         streets, alleys and other public   T.S.O. IV
                           grounds for the distribution of
                           electricity
2019-05-01 6-13-19         Adopting the annual budget for FY  Not Included
                           2019-2020
2019-05-02 6-13-19         Amending the annual budget for FY  Not Included
                           2018-2019
2019-05-03 6-13-19         Accepting the dedication of a sign Not Included
                           on certain real estate
                           Establishing regulations for short 118.01  -
2019-06-01 7-11-19         term rentals within the city       118.09 ,
                                                              118.99
                           Amending regulations regarding
2019-07-01 8-8-19          maintenance of streets, sidewalks  92.08
                           and abutting properties
                           Providing for the levy,
2019-08-01 9-12-19         apportionment and collection of    T.S.O. V
                           taxes and revenue for 2019
                           Amending regulations regarding     110.01  -
2019-08-02 11-14-19        occupational licenses and fees     110.14 ,
                                                              110.99
2019-08-03 8-29-19         Zoning Code amendments             152.05
2019-10-01 11-14-19        Zoning Code amendments             152.05
                           Establishing a non-exclusive
                           franchise for the use of the pubic
2019-11-01 12-12-19        rights-of-way for the installation T.S.O. IV
                           and maintenance of a
                           telecommunications system
2020-01-01 1-9-20          Amending Council meeting times     31.31
2020-05-01 6-11-20         Adopting the annual budget for FY  Not Included
                           2020-2021
2020-09-01 10-8-20         Discharge of weapons               136.01
                           Providing for the levy,
2020-09-02 9-22-20         apportionment and collection of    T.S.O. V
                           taxes and revenue for 2020
2020-10-01 11-12-20        Amending waste collection and      95.21
                           recycling assessment
2020-12-01 1-14-21         Amending annual budget for FY      Not Included
                           2020- 2021
2021-1-01  2-11-21         Adopting a supplement to the Code  Not Included
                           of Ordinances
                                                              90.01  -
                                                              90.11 ,
                           Amending regulations regarding     90.20  -
2021-2-1   2021-2-13-11-21 animals                            90.23 ,
                                                              90.30  -
                                                              90.32 ,
                                                              90.99
2021-5-1   6-10-21         Adopting an interlocal agreement   T.S.O. III
2021-5-2   6-10-21         Amending the annual budget for FY  Not Included
                           2020-2021
2021-5-3   6-10-21         Adopting the annual budget for FY  Not Included
                           2021-2022
2021-7-1   8-12-21         Adopting the S-26 supplement to    Not Included
                           the Code of Ordinances
                           Amending the general licensing     110.01  -
2021-7-2   8-12-21         provisions                         110.14 ,
                                                              110.99
2021-7-3   8-12-21         Amending hours when alcohol may be 113.10
                           sold
                           Providing for the levy,
2021-8-1   9-16-21         apportionment and collection of    T.S.O. V
                           taxes and revenue for 2021
2021-10-01 11-11-21        Zoning Code amendments             152.05
                           Establishing a franchise with
2021-10-02 11-11-21        Cincinnati Bell Extended           T.S.O. IV
                           Territories LLC for a cable
                           television system
                                                              90.40 ,
2021-11-01 12-9-21         Creating regulations for fowl      90.99 ,
                                                              92.01 ,
                                                              92.03
2021-11-02 12-9-21         Amending annual budget for FY      Not Included
                           2021-2022
                           Amending Chapters 74 and 75 to     Ch. 74, Sch. I ,
2022-02-01 3-10-22         update the traffic and parking     Ch. 75, Sch. I
                           regulations
2022-03-01 4-14-22         Zoning Code amendments             152.05
2022-05-01 6-9-22          Amending annual budget for FY      Not Included
                           2021-2022
2022-05-02 6-9-22          Adopting the annual budget for FY  Not Included
                           2022-2023
2022-06-01 7-14-22         Adopting the S-27 supplement to    Not Included
                           the Code of Ordinances
2022-07-01 7-26-22         Providing for a credit of          Not Included
                           occupational license fee
2022-07-02 7-26-22         Providing for a credit of gross    Not Included
                           receipts tax
2022-08-01 9-8-22          Amending annual budget for FY      Not Included
                           2022-2023
                           Providing for the levy,
2022-08-02 9-14-22         apportionment and collection of    T.S.O. V
                           taxes and revenue for 2022
                           Creating a new chapter regulating  97.01 ,
2022-09-01 10-12-22        parks and recreation               97.02 ,
                                                              97.99
2023-01-01 2-9-23          Zoning Code amendments             152.05
2023-01-02 2-9-23          Zoning map change                  T.S.O. I
2023-02-01 3-9-23          Adopting the S-28 supplement to    Not Included
                           the Code of Ordinances
2023-05-01 6-8-23          Adopting the annual budget for FY  Not Included
                           2023-2024
                                                              72.01  -
                                                              72.14 ,
                                                              72.20  -
2023-08-01 9-14-23         Amending parking regulations       72.28 ,
                                                              72.35  -
                                                              72.40 ,
                                                              72.50 ,
                                                              72.99
                           Amending the regulation of         112.01  -
2023-08-02 9-14-23         peddlers, itinerant merchants,     112.09 ,
                           solicitors, and canvassers         112.99
                           Authorizing the granting of a non-
2023-08-03 9-14-23         exclusive, cable-television        T.S.O. IV
                           franchise agreement to Spectrum
                           Mid-America, LLC
                           Providing for the levy,
2023-08-04 9-14-23         apportionment and collection of    T.S.O. V
                           taxes and revenue for 2023
                           Transferring a parcel of property
2023-11-01 12-14-23        from the City Edgewood to the City T.S.O. II
                           of Crestview Hills
                           Changing the hours alcoholic       113.10 ,
2023-12-01 12-14-23        beverages are permitted to be sold 113.99
                           on Sundays
2023-12-02 1-11-24         Regulation encumbrances in the     91.34 ,
                           unimproved right-of-way            91.99
2024-02-01 3-14-24         Creating a small business          Not Included
                           incentive program
                                                              92.03 ,
2024-03-01 4-11-24         Public nuisances; excessive noise  92.09 ,
                                                              92.99
2024-05-01 6-13-24         Adopting the annual budget for the Not Included
                           24/25 FY
2024-05-02 6-13-24         Adopting the S-29 supplement to    Not Included
                           the Code of Ordinances
                                                              72.28 ,
                                                              92.99 ,
                           Provisions for Citation Appeals    112.02 ,
2024-08-01 9-12-24         Board                              112.03 ,
                                                              112.04 ,
                                                              112.05 ,
                                                              112.99
                           Providing for the levy,
2024-08-02 9-12-24         apportionment and collection of    T.S.O. V
                           taxes and revenue for 2024
2024-12-01 12-17-24        Zoning code amendments for medical 152.05
                           cannabis
                           Providing regulations for          119.01  -
2024-12-02 12-17-24        medicinal cannabis businesses      119.07 .
                                                              119.99
                                                            
 
REFERENCES TO RESOLUTIONS
Res. No. Date Passed Description Code Section
Res.  Date   Description                                                               Code
No.   Passed                                                                           Section
1999- 2-3-99 Issuing industrial building revenue bonds, Series 1999A (Thomas More      T.S.O.
2-1          College Project)                                                          VI
1999- 2-11-  Appointing a representative to the Telecommunications Board of Northern   Not
2-2   99     Kentucky                                                                  Included
2007- 1-11-  Requesting city reclassification                                          Not
1-1   07                                                                               Included
2010- 5-13-  In opposition to the Public Safety Employer-Employee Cooperation Act of   Not
05-01 10     2010                                                                      Included
2010- 7-8-10 Federal disaster aid assistance, assurances and agreements                Not
07-01                                                                                  Included
2010- 8-12-  Approving the Mayor’s appointment of Mr. Wm. Wayne Clark to the City of Not
08-01 10     Crestview Hills Board of Adjustment                                       Included
2010- 9-9-10 Expressing support for house Resolution 3765, the Reins Act               Not
09-01                                                                                  Included
2010- 12-9-  Approving the appointment of Mr. Frank Sommerkamp as the city             Not
12-02 10     representative on the Northern Kentucky Area Planning Council for the     Included
             Calendar Year 2011
2011- 2-10-  Supporting construction of interstate bridge                              Not
02-01 2011                                                                             Included
2011- 3-10-  Adopting purchasing policies and procedures                               Not
03-01 2011                                                                             Included
2011- 4-14-  Approving an agreement with the Kentucky Transportation Cabinet for       T.S.O.
04-01 2011   repair of a concrete median                                               III
2011- 9-8-   Commemorating the tenth anniversary of September 11, 2011 terrorist       Not
09-01 2011   attacks                                                                   Included
2011- 9-22-  Authorizing the Mayor to enter into a contract with Jarco Construction,   T.S.O.
09-02 2011   Inc., for the construction of a sidewalk                                  III
2011- 12-8-  Approving the appointment of a representative to the Northern Kentucky    Not
12-01 2011   Area Planning Council                                                     Included
2011- 12-8-  Reapproving appointments to the Board of Adjustment                       Not
12-02 2011                                                                             Included
2011-       Approving the transfer of control of Insight Communications, Inc., to     Not
12-03        Time Warner Cable, Inc.                                                   Included
2011- 12-8-  Supporting proposed new subdivision regulations for Kenton County         Not
12-04 2011                                                                             Included
2012- 3-8-   Authorizing the Mayor to terminate a contract for ALS services and to     T.S.O.
03-01 2012   execute an addendum to an existing fire/EMS contract                      III
2012- 8-9-   Adopting a regional hazard mitigation plan and appointing mitigation      Not
08-01 2012   committee to administer the plan                                          Included
2012- 12-13- Approving the appointment of a representative to the Northern Kentucky    Not
12-01 2012   Area Planning Council                                                     Included
2012- 12-13- Approving the appointment of a representative to the Board of Adjustment  Not
12-02 2012                                                                             Included
2013- 2-13-  Approving the appointment of a representative to the Board of Adjustment  Not
01-01 2013                                                                             Included
2013- 2-14-  Amending the renewal terms of an agreement for fire service and life      T.S.O.
02-01 2013   squad protection                                                          III
2013- 2-14-  Supporting pension system reform to the county employees retirement       Not
02-03 2013   system                                                                    Included
2013- 4-11-  Authorizing the Mayor to execute an agreement for funds for highway       T.S.O.
04-01 2013   repair                                                                    III
2013- 4-11-  Expressing intent to terminate an interlocal agreement for emergency      T.S.O.
04-02 2013   dispatching services                                                      III
2013- 5-9-   Authorizing the Mayor to enter a contract for consulting services         T.S.O.
05-01 2013                                                                             III
2013- 6-13-  Authorizing the Mayor to enter a contract for construction services       T.S.O.
06-01 2013                                                                             III
2013- 6-13-  Authorizing the Mayor to enter a contract for construction services       T.S.O.
06-02 2013                                                                             III
2013- 8-8-   Authorizing the Mayor to enter a contract for construction services       T.S.O.
08-01 2013                                                                             III
2013- 10-10- Authorizing the Mayor to enter a contract for the paving of a road        T.S.O.
10-01 2013                                                                             III
2013- 10-10- Authorizing the Mayor to enter a contract for the acquisition of          T.S.O.
10-02 2013   construction funds                                                        III
2013- 12-12- Approving the appointment of a representative to the Northern Kentucky    Not
12-01 2013   Area Planning Council                                                     Included
2013- 12-12- Approving the appointment of a representative to the Board of Adjustment  Not
12-02 2013                                                                             Included
2013- 12-12- Authorizing the Mayor to enter a contract for engineering and project     T.S.O.
12-03 2013   management services                                                       III
2014- 1-9-   Approving the appointment of a representative to the Board of Ethics      Not
01-01 2014                                                                             Included
2014- 2-13-  Authorizing the Mayor to enter into an interlocal agreement with the City T.S.O.
02-01 2014   of Fort Mitchell for fire protection and emergency medical services for   III
             certain portions of the City of Crestview Hills
2014- 2-13-  Authorizing the Mayor to enter into an interlocal agreement with the City T.S.O.
02-02 2014   of Edgewood for fire protection and emergency medical services for        III
             certain portions of the City of Crestview Hills
2014- 2-13-  Supporting the publication of local government legal advertisements on    Not
02-03 2014   city-maintained websites accessible to the public in lieu of publication  Included
             in newspapers
2014- 4-10-  Authorizing the Mayor to execute an interlocal agreement for a Joint Code T.S.O.
04-01 2014   Enforcement Board                                                         III
2014- 4-10-  Authorizing the Mayor to enter into a contract for the pavement crack     T.S.O.
04-02 2014   sealing of various city streets                                           III
2014- 5-8-   Authorizing the Mayor to enter into a contract for street reconstruction  T.S.O.
05-01 2014                                                                             III
2014- 6-12-  Requesting that the Governor call a special session of the General        Not
06-01 2014   Assembly to consider and pass Senate Bill 5 to fight the growing heroin   Included
             epidemic in Kentucky
2014- 7-10-  Authorizing the Mayor to execute an interlocal agreement with the         T.S.O.
07-01 2014   Northern Kentucky Water District for joint projects                       III
2014- 8-14-  Approving the transfer of control of the cable franchise from Time Warner T.S.O.
08-01 2014   Cable, Inc., to Comcast Corporation                                       IV
2014- 10-14- Approving the transfer of control by Comcast Corporation of Insight       T.S.O.
10-01 2014   Kentucky Partners, II, L.P. (the franchisee) to Charter Communications    IV
2014- 10-14- Approving Addendum A to the City Administrator employment agreement       T.S.O.
10-02 2014                                                                             III
2014- 11-13- Authorizing the Mayor to execute an agreement to provide funding for      T.S.O.
11-01 2014   highway extension                                                         III
2014- 1-8-15 Authorizing the Mayor to enter into a contract for wayfinding signage     T.S.O.
12-01                                                                                  III
2014- 12-11- Approving the appointment of a representative to the Kenton County        Not
12-02 14     Planning Commission                                                       Included
2014- 12-11- Approving the appointment of a representative and an alternate            Not
12-03 14     representative on the Planning and Development Services Council           Included
2014- 12-24- Approving an appointment to the Crestview Hills Board of Adjustment       Not
12-04 14                                                                               Included
2014- 12-11- Approving an appointment to the Crestview Hills Board of Adjustment       Not
12-05 14                                                                               Included
2015- 1-9-15 Approving an appointment to the Telecommunications Board of Northern      Not
01-01        Kentucky (TBNK)                                                           Included
2015- 2-10-  Authorizing the Mayor to enter into a contract for auditing services      T.S.O.
02-01 15                                                                               III
2015- 4-9-15 Authorizing the Mayor to enter into a contract for lawn and landscaping   T.S.O.
03-01        services                                                                  III
2015- 4-9-15 Authorizing the Mayor to enter into a contract for the installation of a  T.S.O.
04-01        median                                                                    III
2015- 5-14-  Authorizing the Mayor to enter into a contract for curbside solid waste   T.S.O.
05-01 15     and recycling                                                             III
2015- 5-14-  Authorizing the Mayor to enter into a contract for the reconstruction of  T.S.O.
05-02 15     Campus Drive (North)                                                      III
2015- 5-14-  Approving the Stage I Development Plan for the Crown Point Subdivision    Not
05-03 15                                                                               Included
2015- 5-14-  Approving an appointment to the Board of Ethics                           Not
05-04 15                                                                               Included
2015- 7-9-15 Approving a memorandum of agreement to prepare the Regional Hazard        T.S.O.
07-01        Mitigation Plan                                                           III
2015-        Supporting elements of the 2008 Cable Needs Assessment Report in          T.S.O.
07-02 6-9-15 conjunction with renewal of the franchise agreement with Time Warner      IV
             Cable, Inc.
2015- 7-9-15 Authorizing the Mayor to enter into a contract for milling and paving     T.S.O.
07-03        overlay                                                                   III
2015- 8-13-  Authorizing the Mayor to enter into a contract for the reconstruction of  T.S.O.
08-01 15     University Circle (North)                                                 III
2015- 9-10-  Authorizing the Mayor to enter into an agreement for installation of new  T.S.O.
09-01 15     storm sewer lines                                                         III
2015- 10-8-  Authorizing the Mayor to enter into a contract for the pavement crack     T.S.O.
10-01 15     sealing of various city streets                                           III
2015- 10-8-  Approving the transfer of control of cable communications                 T.S.O.
10-02 15                                                                               III
2015- 11-12- Authorizing the Mayor to enter into an agreement with Northern Kentucky   T.S.O.
11-01 15     Sanitation District #1                                                    III
2015- 11-12- Authorizing the Mayor to enter into a master interlocal cooperation       T.S.O.
11-02 15     agreement with Northern Kentucky Sanitation District #1                   III
                                                                                     
 
