CITY OF CRESTVIEW, KENTUCKY
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2020 S-8 Supplement contains:
Local legislation current through Ord. 2019-03, passed 9-3-19
State legislation current through KRS Pamphlet 2020
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street, Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
Tel: (800) 445-5588
Internet: http://www.amlegal.com
ADOPTING ORDINANCES
ORDINANCE NO. 1993-6
ENACTING AS AN ORDINANCE, A CODE OF THE CITY OF CRESTVIEW, AMENDING, RESTATING,
CODIFYING, AND COMPILING CERTAIN EXISTING GENERAL ORDINANCES OF THE CITY
DEALING WITH SUBJECTS EMBRACED IN SAID CODE.
   WHEREAS, the present general ordinances of the City of Crestview are
incomplete and inadequate and the manner of arrangement, classification and
indexing thereof is insufficient to meet the immediate needs of the City; and
   WHEREAS, the Acts of the State Legislature of the Commonwealth of Kentucky
empower and authorize the City Legislative Body of this City to revise, amend,
restate, codify and to compile any existing ordinance or ordinances and all new
ordinances not heretofore adopted or published and to incorporate said
ordinances in one ordinance in book form; and
   WHEREAS, the Legislative Body of the City of Crestview has authorized a
general compilation, revision and codification of the ordinances of the City of
a general and permanent nature and publication of such ordinances in book form.
   NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the Legislative Body of the City of
Crestview that:
   Section I. The general ordinances of the City of Crestview as herein
revised, amended, restated, codified, and compiled in book form are adopted as
and shall constitute the "Code of Ordinances of the City of Crestview."
   Section II. Said Code as adopted in Section I shall consist of the following
titles, to-wit:
                  Title I    General Provisions
                  Title III    Administration
                  Title V    Public Works
                  Title VII    Traffic Code
                  Title IX    General Regulations
                  Title XI    Business Regulations
                  Title XIII    General Offenses
                  Title XV    Land Usage
                  Tables of Special Ordinances
                  Parallel References
                  Index
   Section III. All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated in said
Code shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date of said Code
except as they are included and reordained in whole or in part in said Code;
provided such repeal shall not affect any offense committed or penalty incurred
or any right established prior to the effective date of said Code, nor shall
such repeal affect the provisions of ordinances levying taxes, appropriating
money, annexing or detaching territory establishing franchises or granting
special rights to certain persons, authorizing public improvements, authorizing
the issuance of bonds or borrowing of money, authorizing the purchase or sale
of real or personal property, granting or accepting easements, plat or
dedication of land to public use, naming or vacating or setting the boundaries
of streets, alleys or other public places, nor to any other ordinance of a
temporary or special nature or pertaining to subjects not contained therein.
   AO-1
AO-2   Crestview - Adopting Ordinance
   Section IV. That this ordinance shall be signed by the Mayor, attested by
the City Clerk/Treasurer, recorded and published. Same shall be in effect at
the earliest time provided by law.
                                          Patricia Stortz, Mayor /s/
                                          Mayor
ATTEST:
Karen P. Bond /s/
City Clerk/Treasurer
ORDINANCE NO. 2001-10
   AN ORDINANCE ENACTING AND ADOPTING A SUPPLEMENT TO THE CODE OF ORDINANCES OF
THE CITY OF CRESTVIEW, KENTUCKY.
   WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati, Ohio, has
completed the 2000 supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the City of
Crestview, which supplement contains all ordinances of a general nature enacted
since the prior supplement to the Code of Ordinances of this municipality; and
   WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation has recommended the revision
or addition of certain sections of the Code of Ordinances which are based on or
make references to sections of the Kentucky Revised Statutes; and
   WHEREAS, it is the intent of Council to accept these updated sections in
accordance with the changes of the law of the Commonwealth of Kentucky;
   NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the City of Crestview, Campbell County,
Kentucky:
   SECTION I
   That the 2000 supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the City of Crestview,
Campbell County, Kentucky, as submitted by American Legal Publishing
Corporation of Cincinnati, and as attached hereto, be and the same is hereby
adopted by reference as set out in its entirety.
   SECTION II
   That this ordinance shall take effect and be in force from and after its
date of passage, approval and publication as required by law.
First reading:  August 14, 2001
Second reading:  September 11, 2001
Published:  September 25, 2001
                                          Michael Leopold /s/
                                          Michael Leopold, Mayor
ATTEST:
Karen P. Bond /s/
Karen P. Bond, Clerk
   AO-3
ORDINANCE NO. 2004-08
   AN ORDINANCE ENACTING AND ADOPTING A SUPPLEMENT TO THE CODE OF ORDINANCES OF
THE CITY OF CRESTVIEW, KENTUCKY.
   WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati, Ohio, has
completed the 2004 supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the City of
Crestview, which supplement contains all ordinances of a general nature enacted
since the prior supplement to the Code of Ordinances of this municipality; and
   WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation has recommended the revision
or addition of certain sections of the Code of Ordinances which are based on or
make references to sections of the Kentucky Revised Statutes; and
   WHEREAS, it is the intent of Council to accept these updated sections in
accordance with the changes of the law of the Commonwealth of Kentucky;
   NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the City of Crestview, Campbell County,
Kentucky:
   SECTION I
   That the 2004 supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the City of Crestview,
Campbell County, Kentucky, as submitted by American Legal Publishing
Corporation of Cincinnati, and as attached hereto, be and the same is hereby
adopted by reference as set out in its entirety.
   SECTION II
   That this ordinance shall take effect and be in force from and after its
date of passage, approval and publication as required by law.
First reading:  August 3, 2004
Second reading:  September 7, 2004
Published:  September 7, 2004
                                          Janet Krebs/s/
                                          Janet Krebs, Mayor
ATTEST:
Karen P. Bond /s/
Karen P. Bond, Clerk
2008 S-6   AO-5
ORDINANCE NO. 2008-04
   AN ORDINANCE ENACTING AND ADOPTING A SUPPLEMENT TO THE CODE OF ORDINANCES OF
THE CITY OF CRESTVIEW, KENTUCKY.
   WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati, Ohio, has
completed the 2008 supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the City of
Crestview, which supplement contains all ordinances of a general nature enacted
since the prior supplement to the Code of Ordinances of this municipality; and
   WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation has recommended the revision
or addition of certain sections of the Code of Ordinances which are based on or
make references to sections of the Kentucky Revised Statutes; and
   WHEREAS, it is the intent of Council to accept these updated sections in
accordance with the changes of the law of the Commonwealth of Kentucky;
   NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the City of Crestview, Campbell County,
Kentucky:
   SECTION I
   That the 2008 supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the City of Crestview,
Campbell County, Kentucky, as submitted by American Legal Publishing
Corporation of Cincinnati, and as attached hereto, be and the same is hereby
adopted by reference as set out in its entirety.
   SECTION II
   That this ordinance shall take effect and be in force from and after its
date of passage, approval and publication as required by law.
First reading:            September 2, 2008
Second reading/Adopted:   October 7, 2008
Published:               October 27, 2008
                                          Karen P. Bond /s/
                                          Karen P. Bond, Mayor
ATTEST:
Cathy Martin /s/
Cathy Martin, Clerk
   AO-7
ORDINANCE NO. 2013-02
   AN ORDINANCE ENACTING AND ADOPTING A SUPPLEMENT TO THE CODE OF ORDINANCES OF
THE CITY OF CRESTVIEW, KENTUCKY.
   WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati, Ohio, has
completed the 2012 supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the City of
Crestview, which supplement contains all ordinances of a general nature enacted
since the prior supplement to the Code of Ordinances of this municipality; and
   WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation has recommended the revision
or addition of certain sections of the Code of Ordinances which are based on or
make references to sections of the Kentucky Revised Statutes; and
   WHEREAS, it is the intent of Council to accept these updated sections in
accordance with the changes of the law of the Commonwealth of Kentucky;
   NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the City of Crestview, Campbell County,
Kentucky:
   SECTION I
   That the 2012 supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the City of Crestview,
Campbell County, Kentucky, as submitted by American Legal Publishing
Corporation of Cincinnati, and as attached hereto, be and the same is hereby
adopted by reference as set out in its entirety.
   SECTION II
   That this ordinance shall take effect and be in force from and after its
date of passage, approval and publication as required by law.
First reading:            May 7, 2103
Second reading/Adopted:   June 4, 2013
Published:               
Signed:                                    Attest:
C J Peters /s/                            Max Dawson /s/
CJ Peters, Mayor                           Max Dawson, City Clerk/Treasurer
   AO-9
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
      
11.   CITY BOUNDARIES
CHAPTER 10: RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
Section
   
10.01   Short titles
   
10.02   Definitions
   
10.03   Rules of construction
   
10.04   Computation of time
   
10.05   Majority may act for all; authorized agent
   
10.06   Writings and signatures
   
10.07   Severability
   
10.08   Revivor
   
10.09   Rights and liabilities accruing before repeal of ordinance
   
10.10   Construction of section references
   
10.11   Ordinances repealed
   
10.12   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.13   Ordinances saved
   
10.14   Amendments to code; amendatory language
   
10.15   Conflicting provisions
   
10.16   Reference to offices
   
10.17   Errors and omissions
   
10.18   Historical and statutory references
 
   
10.99   Penalty
§ 10.01 SHORT TITLES
   (A)   All ordinances of a permanent and general nature of the city as
revised, codified, rearranged, renumbered, and consolidated into component
codes, titles, chapters, and sections shall be known and designated as the
Crestview Code, for which designation “codified ordinances” or “code” may be
substituted. Code, title, chapter, and section headings do not constitute any
part of the law as contained in the code. (KRS 446.140)
   (B)   All references to codes, titles, chapters, and sections are to such
components of the code unless otherwise specified. Any component code may be
referred to and cited by its name, such as the “traffic code.” Sections may be
referred to and cited by the designation “§” followed by the number, such as “§
10.01.” Headings and captions used in this code other than the title, chapter,
and section numbers, are employed for reference purposes only and shall not be
deemed a part of the text of any section.
§ 10.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this code the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning:
   ACTION. Includes all proceedings in any court of this state. (KRS 446.010
(1))
   AND. May be read OR, and OR may be read AND, if the sense requires it.
   ANIMAL. Includes every warm-blooded living creature except a human being.
(KRS 446.010(2))
   AVIS. The automated vehicle information system established and maintained by
the Transportation Cabinet to collect titling and registration information on
vehicles and boats and information on holders of motor vehicle operator's
licenses and personal identification cards. (KRS 446.010(55))
   BUSINESS TRUST. Includes, except when utilized in KRS Chapter 386, a
STATUTORY TRUST as organized under KRS Chapter 386A. (KRS 446.010(6))
   CITY, MUNICIPAL CORPORATION or MUNICIPALITY. When used in this code shall
denote the City of Crestview, irrespective of its population or legal
classification.
   COMMISSION. The City Commission. (KRS 83A.010(3))
   COMPANY.  May extend and be applied to any corporation, company, person,
partnership, joint stock company or association. (KRS 446.010(9))
   CORPORATION. May extend and be applied to any corporation, company,
partnership, joint stock company or association. (KRS 446.010(10))
   COUNTY. Campbell County, Kentucky.
   CRUELTY. As applied to animals, includes every act or omission whereby
unjustifiable physical pain, suffering or death is caused or permitted. (KRS
446.010(12))
   DIRECTORS. When applied to corporations, includes managers or trustees. (KRS
446.010(13))
   DOMESTIC. When applied to a corporation, partnership, business trust or
limited liability company, means all those incorporated or formed by authority
of this state. (KRS 446.010(14))
   DOMESTIC ANIMAL. Any animal converted to domestic habitat. (KRS 446.010(15))
   EXECUTIVE AUTHORITY. The Commission. (KRS 83A.010(16))
   FEDERAL. Refers to the United States. (KRS 446.010(17))
   FOREIGN. When applied to a corporation, partnership, business trust or
limited liability company, includes all those incorporated or formed by
authority of any other state. (KRS 446.010(18))
   KEEPER or PROPRIETOR. Includes all persons, whether acting by themselves or
as a servant, agent or employee.
   KRS. Kentucky Revised Statutes.
   Rules of Construction; General Penalty   1-5
   LAND or REAL ESTATE. Includes lands, tenements and hereditaments and all
rights thereto and interest therein, other than a chattel interest. (KRS
446.010(23))
   LEGISLATIVE BODY. The City Commission. (KRS 91A.010(8))
   LEGISLATIVE BODY MEMBER. A City Commissioner. (KRS 83A.010(8))
   LIVESTOCK. Cattle, sheep, swine, goats, horses, alpacas, llamas, buffaloes,
or any other animals of the bovine, ovine, porcine, caprine, equine, or camelid
species. (KRS 446.010(25))
   MAY. The act referred to is permissive. (KRS 446.010(26))
   MONTH. Calendar month. (KRS 446.010(27))
   MUNICIPALITY. The City of Crestview, Kentucky.
   OATH. Includes AFFIRMATION in all cases in which an affirmation may be
substituted for an oath. (KRS 446.010(28))
   PARTNERSHIP. Includes both general and limited partnerships. (KRS 446.010
(30))
   PEACE OFFICER. Includes sheriffs, constables, coroners, jailers,
metropolitan and urban-county government correctional officers, marshals,
police officers and other persons with similar authority to make arrests. (KRS
446.010(31))
   PERSON. May extend and be applied to bodies-politic and corporate,
societies, communities, the public generally, individuals, partnerships, joint
stock companies and limited liability companies. (KRS 446.010(33))
   PERSONAL PROPERTY. Includes all property except real.
   PREMISES. As applied to property, includes land and buildings.
   PROPERTY. Includes real, personal, mixed estates and interests.
   PUBLIC AUTHORITY. Includes boards of education; the municipal, county, state
or federal government, its officers or an agency thereof; or any duly
authorized public official.
   PUBLIC PLACE.  Includes any street, sidewalk, park, cemetery, school yard,
body of water or watercourse, public conveyance or any other place for the sale
of merchandise, public accommodation or amusement.
   REAL PROPERTY. Includes lands, tenements and hereditaments.
   REGISTERED MAIL. Any governmental, commercial, or electronic method of
delivery that allows a document or package to have:
      (1)   Its chain of custody recorded in a register to enable its location
to be tracked;
      (2)   Insurance available to cover its loss; and
      (3)   The signature of the recipient of the document or package available
to the sender. (KRS 446.010(36))
   REGULAR ELECTION. The election in even-numbered years at which members of
Congress are elected, and the election in odd-numbered years at which state
officers are elected. (KRS 446.010(37))
   SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory. (KRS 446.010(39))
   SIDEWALK. The portion of the street between the curb line and the adjacent
property line intended for the use of pedestrians.
   STATE. The Commonwealth of Kentucky.
   STREET. Includes alleys, avenues, boulevards, lanes, roads, highways,
viaducts and all other public thoroughfares within the city.
   SUBCHAPTER.  A division of a chapter, designated in this code by a heading
in the chapter analysis and a capitalized heading in the body of the chapter,
setting apart a group of sections related by the subject matter of the heading.
Not all chapters have SUBCHAPTERS.
   SWORN. Includes affirmed in all cases in which an affirmation may be
substituted for an oath. (KRS 446.010(43))
   TENANT or OCCUPANT. As applied to premises, includes any person holding a
written or oral lease, or who actually occupies the whole or any part of the
premises, alone or with others.
   VACANCY IN OFFICE. Exists when there is an unexpired part of a term of
office without a lawful incumbent therein, when the person elected or appointed
to an office fails to qualify according to law, or when there has been no
election to fill the office at the time appointed by law; it applies whether
the vacancy is occasioned by death, resignation, removal from the state,
county, city or district, or otherwise. (KRS 446.010(46))
   VIOLATE. Includes failure to comply with. (KRS 446.010(47))
   YEAR. Calendar year. (KRS 446.010(49))
§ 10.03 RULES OF CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   Singular includes plural. A word importing the singular number only
may extend and be applied to several persons or things, as well as to one
person or thing, and a word importing the plural number only may extend and be
applied to one person or thing as well as to several persons or things. (KRS
446.020 (1))
   (B)   Masculine includes feminine. A word importing the masculine gender
only may extend and be applied to females as well as males. (KRS 446.020 (2))
   (C)   Liberal construction. All sections of this code shall be liberally
construed with a view to promote their objects and carry out the intent of City
Commission. (KRS 446.080 (1))
   (D)   Retroactivity. No ordinance shall be construed to be retroactive,
unless expressly so declared. (KRS 446.080 (3))
   (E)   Technical terms. All words and phrases shall be construed according to
the common and approved usage of language, but technical words and phrases and
such others as may have acquired a peculiar and appropriate meaning in the law,
shall be construed according to such meaning. (KRS 446.080 (4))
§ 10.04 COMPUTATION OF TIME.
   (A)   In computing any period of time prescribed or allowed by order of
court, or by any applicable ordinance or regulation, the day of the act, event,
or default after which the designated period of time begins to run is not to be
included. The last day of the period so computed is to be included, unless it
is a Saturday, a Sunday, a legal holiday, or a day on which the public office
in which a document is required to be filed is actually and legally closed, in
which event the period runs until the end of the next day which is not one of
the days just mentioned. When the period of time prescribed or allowed is less
than seven days, intermediate Saturdays, Sundays, and legal holidays shall be
excluded in the computation.
   (B)   When an ordinance, regulation, or order of court requires an act to be
done either a certain time before an event or a certain time before the day on
which an event occurs, the day of the event shall be excluded in computing the
time. If the day thereby computed on which or by which the act is required to
be done falls on a Saturday, Sunday, legal holiday, or a day on which the
public office in which the act is required to be completed is actually and
legally closed, the act may be done on the next day which is none of the days
just mentioned.
   (C)   If any proceeding is directed by law to take place, or any act is
directed to be done, on a particular day of a month and that day is Sunday, the
proceeding shall take place, or the act shall be done, on the next day that is
not a legal holiday.
(KRS 446.030)
   (D)   In all cases where the law requires any act to be done in a reasonable
time or reasonable notice to be given, such reasonable time or notice shall
mean the time only as may be necessary for the prompt performance of such duty
or compliance with such notice.
§ 10.05 MAJORITY MAY ACT FOR ALL; AUTHORIZED AGENT.
   (A)   Words giving authority to three or more public officers or other
persons shall be construed as giving such authority to a majority of such
officers or other persons. (KRS 446.050)
   (B)   When the law requires an act to be done which may by law as well be
done by an agent as by the principal, such requirement shall be construed to
include such acts when done by an authorized agent.
§ 10.06 WRITINGS AND SIGNATURES.
   (A)   When this code requires any writing to be signed by a party thereto,
it shall not be deemed to be signed unless the signature is subscribed at the
end or close of the writing.
   (B)   Every writing contemplated by this code shall be in the English
language.
(KRS 446.060)
§ 10.07 SEVERABILITY.
   It shall be considered that it is the intent of City Commission in enacting
any ordinance, that if any part of the ordinance be held unconstitutional the
remaining parts shall remain in force, unless the ordinance provides otherwise,
or unless the remaining parts are so essentially and inseparably connected with
and dependent upon the unconstitutional part that it is apparent that City
Commission would not have enacted the remaining parts without the
unconstitutional part, or unless the remaining parts, standing alone, are
incomplete and incapable of being executed in accordance with the intent of
City Commission.
(KRS 446.090)
§ 10.08 REVIVOR.
   (A)   A repealed ordinance without a delayed effective date is revived when
the ordinance that repealed it is repealed by another ordinance enacted at the
same meeting of City Commission.
   (B)   A repealed ordinance with a delayed effective date is revived by the
enactment of a repealer of the ordinance that repealed it at the same or any
subsequent meeting of City Commission as long as it takes effect prior to the
effective date of the original repealer.
   (C)   An amended ordinance without a delayed effective date remains
unchanged with respect to an amendment which is repealed at the same meeting of
City Commission which enacted the amendment.
   (D)   An amended ordinance with a delayed effective date remains unchanged
with respect to that amendment if the ordinance making the amendment is
repealed at the same or at a subsequent meeting of City Commission as long as
the repealing ordinance takes effect prior to the effective date of the
original amendment.
   (E)   No other action of City Commission repealing a repealer or an
amendment shall have the effect of reviving the original language of the
repealer or amendment as the case may be.
(KRS 446.100)
§ 10.09 RIGHTS AND LIABILITIES ACCRUING BEFORE REPEAL OF ORDINANCE.
   (A)   No new ordinance shall be construed to repeal a former ordinance as to
any offense committed against a former ordinance, nor as to any act done, or
penalty, forfeiture, or punishment incurred, or any right accrued or claim
arising under the former ordinance, or in any way whatever to affect any such
offense or act so committed or done, or any penalty, forfeiture, or punishment
so incurred, or any right accrued or claim arising before the new ordinance
takes effect, except that the proceedings thereafter had shall conform, so far
as practicable, to the laws in force at the time of such proceedings.
   (B)   If any penalty, forfeiture, or punishment is mitigated by any
provision of the new ordinance, such provision may, by the consent of the party
affected, be applied to any judgment pronounced after the new ordinance takes
effect.
(KRS 446.110)
§ 10.10 CONSTRUCTION OF SECTION REFERENCES.
   (A)   Wherever in a penalty section reference is made to a violation of a
section or an inclusive group of sections, such reference shall be construed to
mean a violation of any provision of the section or sections included in the
reference.
   (B)   References in the code to action taken or authorized under designated
sections of the code include, in every case, action taken or authorized under
the applicable legislative provision which is superseded by this code.
   (C)   Whenever in one section reference is made to another section hereof,
the reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified, or renumbered, unless the subject matter be
changed or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
§ 10.11 ORDINANCES REPEALED.
   This code, from and after its effective date, shall contain all of the
provisions of a general nature pertaining to the subjects herein enumerated and
embraced. All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated by this code
shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date of this code of
ordinances.
§ 10.12 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature and all other ordinances
pertaining to subjects not enumerated and embraced in this code of ordinances,
shall remain in full force and effect unless herein repealed expressly or by
necessary implication.
§ 10.13 ORDINANCES SAVED.
   Whenever an ordinance by its nature either authorizes or enables the City
Commission, or a certain city officer or employee, to make additional
ordinances or regulations for the purpose of carrying out the intent of the
ordinance, all ordinances and regulations of a similar nature serving such
purpose effected prior to the codification and not inconsistent thereto, shall
remain in effect and are saved.
§ 10.14 AMENDMENTS TO CODE; AMENDATORY LANGUAGE.
   (A)   Any chapter, section, or division amended or added to this code by
ordinances passed subsequent to this code may be numbered in accordance with
the numbering system of this code and printed for inclusion herein. Any
chapter, section, or division repealed by subsequent ordinances may be excluded
from this code by omission from reprinted pages. Subsequent ordinances as
printed or omitted shall be prima facie evidence of such subsequent ordinances
until City Commission shall adopt a new code of ordinances.
   (B)   The method of amendment set forth in §
32.37 should be used by the city to amend, add, or repeal a chapter, section,
or division of this code of ordinances.
§ 10.15 CONFLICTING PROVISIONS.
   If the provisions of different codes, chapters, or sections of the codified
ordinances conflict with or contravene each other, the provisions bearing the
latest passage date shall prevail. If the conflicting provisions bear the same
passage date, the conflict shall be so construed as to be consistent with the
meaning or legal effect of the questions of the subject matter taken as a
whole.
§ 10.16 REFERENCE TO OFFICES.
   Reference to a public office or officer shall be deemed to apply to any
office, officer, or employee of the city exercising the powers, duties, or
functions contemplated in the provision, irrespective of any transfer of
functions or change in the official title of the functionary.
§ 10.17 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error be discovered consisting of the misspelling of any word
or words, the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention
of the provisions affected, the use of a word or words to which no meaning can
be attached, or the use of a word or words when another word or words was
clearly intended to express the intention, the spelling shall be corrected, and
the word or words supplied, omitted, or substituted as will conform with the
manifest intention, and the provision shall have the same effect as though the
correct words were contained in the text as originally published. No alteration
shall be made or permitted if any question exists regarding the nature or
extent of such error.
§ 10.18 HISTORICAL AND STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   As histories for the code sections, the specific number and passage
date of the original ordinance, and the most recent three amending ordinances,
if any, are listed following the text of the code section. Example: ('84 Code,
§ 1.1) (Ord. 10, effective 5-13-60; Am. Ord. 15, effective 1-1-70; Am. Ord. 20,
effective 1-1-80; Am. Ord. 25, effective l-1-85)
   (B)   If a KRS cite is included in the history, this indicates that the text
of the section reads word- for-word the same as the statute. Example: (KRS
83A.090) ('84 Code, § 1.1) (Ord. 10, effective 1-17-80; Am. Ord. 20, effective
1-1-85). If a KRS cite is set forth as a “statutory reference” following the
text of the section, this indicates that the reader should refer to that
statute for further information. Example:
§ 31.10 CITY COMMISSION.
   The legislative, executive, and administrative authority of the city shall
be vested in and exercised by the City Commission.
      ('84 Code, § 1.1) (Ord. 10, effective 1-17-80)
Statutory reference:
   For powers and duties of the City Commission, see KRS 83A.140
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   Any person, firm or corporation who shall violate any provision of the City
of Crestview Code shall, upon conviction thereof, be subject to a fine of not
less than $50.00 no more than $250.00, or imprisonment for a term not to exceed
thirty (30) days, or both at the discretion of the Court. Each day that a
violation continues after due notice has been served, in accordance with the
terms hereof shall be deemed a separate offense. This penalty provision only
applies if there is not another penalty in the Code of Ordinances that
specifically addresses the violation, which is the subject of the enforcement
proceedings.
(Am. Ord. 1998-8, passed 6-2-98)
CHAPTER 11: CITY BOUNDARIES
Section
   
11.01   Official city boundaries.
§ 11.01 OFFICIAL CITY BOUNDARIES.
   The boundaries of the city shall be as set out and fixed by a judgment of
the Campbell County Circuit Court, on December 1, 1950 and particularly
described as follows:
   Situated in Campbell County, State of Kentucky, and being more particularly
described as follows:
   Beginning on rightaway intersection of Uhl Road and Dodsworth Lane; (this
point being 15 feet and 0 inches northwest of center of Uhl Road and fifteen
feet and 0 inches southeast of Dodsworth Lane), running thence north 58° 30'
east 300 feet, (this line being parallel to and 15 feet 0 inches from center of
Dodsworth Lane); thence along Dodsworth Lane north 59° 20' east 225 feet to a
hub; thence north 55° 30' east 150 feet; thence leaving Dodsworth Lane and
running 15 feet from and parallel to Skyline Drive north 45° 30' east a
distance of 300 feet; thence north 32° 30' east 300 feet; thence north 5° 0'
east 56 feet to a hub; thence leaving rightaway of Skyline Drive south 78° 20'
east a distance of 176.8 feet to a hub; thence south 63° 25' east 1,652.5 feet
to a point; thence south 3° 30' west 179.5 feet; thence south 29° 15' east a
distance of 102.5 feet to a point; thence south 11° 04' west a distance of 158
feet; thence south 78° 45' west 1,820 feet to a hub of rightaway of Uhl Road
thence north 50° 10' west along Uhl Road and fifteen feet from center line, a
distance of 1,099.5 feet to the point of beginning.
(Ord. 1, effective 1-8-51)
Cross reference:
   For list and description of annexations to city affecting above description
of the city's boundaries, see Table I of the Table of Special Ordinances
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   COMMISSION PLAN
      
31.   CITY OFFICIALS
      
32.   CITY COMMISSION
      
33.   FINANCE AND REVENUE
      
34.   PUBLIC RECORDS
      
35.   TAXATION
      
36.   DEPARTMENTS, BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS
      
37.   COUNTY DISTRICT COURT
      
38.   CODE OF ETHICAL CONDUCT
CHAPTER 30: COMMISSION PLAN
Section
   
30.01   Form of government
   
30.02   Governing officers
§ 30.01 FORM OF GOVERNMENT.
   The form of government provided in this chapter shall be known as the
“Commission Plan.”
(KRS 83A.140 (1))
§ 30.02 GOVERNING OFFICERS.
   (A)   The city shall be governed by an elected officer who shall be called
Mayor and by elected legislative body members who shall be called City
Commissioners and which together shall be known as the City Commission and by
such other officers and employees as may be provided for by statute or city
ordinance. (KRS 83A.140 (2))
   (B)   The City Commission shall be composed of the Mayor and four
Commissioners. (KRS 83A.030 (2))
CHAPTER 31: CITY OFFICIALS
Section
General Provisions
   
31.01   Oath; bond
   
31.02   Compensation
   
31.03   Removal from office
Elected Officials
   
31.20   Election procedure
   
31.21   Mayor; Mayor Pro Tem
   
31.22   Commissioners
Nonelected City Officials
   
31.35   Establishment of nonelected city offices
   
31.36   City Clerk
   
31.37   City Treasurer
   
31.38   City Attorney
   
31.39   Zoning Administrator/Building Inspector
   
31.40   City Code Enforcement Officer
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 31.01 OATH; BOND.
   (A)   Oath. Each officer of the city shall, before entering upon the
discharge of duties of his office, take the following oath: “I do solemnly
swear (or affirm, as the case may be) that I will support the Constitution of
this Commonwealth, and the Constitution of the United States, and be faithful
and true to the Commonwealth of Kentucky, so long as I continue a citizen
thereof, and that I will faithfully execute, to the best of my ability, the
office of           , according to law; and I do further solemnly swear (or
affirm) that, since the adoption of the present Constitution, I being a citizen
of this United States, have not fought a duel with deadly weapons within this
State, nor out of it, nor have I sent or accepted a challenge to fight a duel
with deadly weapons, nor have I acted as a second in carrying a challenge, nor
aided or assisted any person thus offending, so help me God”, as established by
section 228 of the Kentucky Constitution.
   (B)   Bond. Official bonds shall, if required, meet the standards of KRS
62.060.
§ 31.02 COMPENSATION.
   (A)   The Commission shall by ordinance fix the compensation of every
elected city officer not later than the first Monday in May in the year in
which the officer is elected. An elected officer's compensation shall not be
changed after his election or during his term of office.
      (1)   In order to equate the compensation of the Mayor and Commissioners
with the purchasing power of the dollar, the State Finance and Administration
Cabinet computes by the second Friday in February of every year the annual
increase or decrease in the consumer price index of the preceding year by using
1949 as the base year in accordance with section 246 of the Constitution of
Kentucky, which provides that the Mayor and Commissioners shall be paid at a
rate no greater than $7,200 per annum.
      (2)   The Commission shall set the compensation of these officers in
accordance with KRS 83A.070 at a rate no greater than that stipulated by the
State Finance and Administration Cabinet.
   (B)   The Commission shall fix the compensation of each appointed city
officer in the ordinance that creates the office and may change it by
ordinance.
   (C)   The Commission shall establish the compensation of city employees in
accordance with the personnel and pay classification plan ordinance of the
city.
   (D)   All fees and commissions authorized by law shall be paid into the city
treasury for the benefit of the city and shall not be retained by any officer
or employee.
Statutory reference:
   Compensation, see KRS 83A.070 and 83A.075
§ 31.03 REMOVAL FROM OFFICE.
   (A)   Elected officers. Any elected officer, in case of misconduct,
inability, or willful neglect in the performance of the duties of his office,
may be removed from office by a unanimous vote of the members of the Commission
exclusive of any member to be removed, who shall not vote in the deliberation
of his removal. No elected officer shall be removed without having been given
the right to a full public hearing. The officer, if removed, has the right to
appeal to the circuit court of the county and the appeal shall be on the
record. No officer so removed is eligible to fill the office vacated before the
expiration of the term to which originally elected.
   (B)   Nonelected officers. Nonelected city officers may be removed by the
Commission at will, unless otherwise provided by state law or ordinance.
Statutory reference:
   Removal of elected officers, see KRS 83A.040(9)
   Removal of nonelected officers, see KRS 83A.080(2)
ELECTED OFFICERS
§ 31.20 ELECTION PROCEDURE.
   (A)   The nomination and election of candidates for city office shall be in
a non-partisan election and there shall be no non-partisan primary election for
the nomination of candidates to city office regardless of the number of
candidates running for each office as authorized by KRS 83A.045(2)(b).
      (1)   All candidates for elected city offices shall file their nomination
papers with the Campbell County Clerk no later than 91 days before the day
fixed by KRS Chapter 118 for holding a regular election in order to be entitled
to appear on the ballot.
      (2)   All nomination papers shall be filed no later than 4:00 p.m., local
time, when filed on the last day on which such papers are permitted to be
filed.
      (3)   The election of candidates to elected city offices shall be
governed by the provisions of this section and by the applicable provisions of
KRS Chapter 83A and Chapters 116 to 121.
      (4)   Candidates for city office shall not be required to make pre-
election reports to the Registry of Election Finance pursuant to KRS Chapter
121.180 but shall be required to make post- election reports within 30 days
after the regular election in November.
      (5)   The number of candidates equal to the number of city offices to be
filled who receive the highest number of votes cast in the regular election for
each city office shall be elected.
      (6)   All candidates shall be subject to all other applicable election
laws pursuant to KRS Chapters 83A and 116 to 121.
('84 Code, § 110.1) (Ord. 1989-2, effective 1-26-89)
   (B)   The city may change the manner of election of city officers within the
provisions of division (A) of this section by ordinance, except that no change
shall be made earlier than five years from the last change.
   (C)   The city shall pay the costs of city elections only if city elections
are held at a time other than prescribed by KRS Chapters 116 to 121.
   (D)   Each appointed and elected city office existing on July 15, 1980,
shall continue until abolished by ordinance, except that the offices of Mayor
and Commissioners may not be abolished.
   (E)   No abolition of any elected office shall take effect until expiration
of the term of the current holder of the office.
   (F)   No ordinance abolishing any elected office shall be enacted later than
240 days preceding the regular election for that office, except in the event of
a vacancy in the office.
   (G)   The city may not create any elected office. Existing elected offices
may be continued under provision of divisions (D), (E), and (F) above, but no
existing elected office may be changed.
(Am. Ord. 1991-3, passed 4-2-91)
Statutory reference:
   Election of city officers, see KRS 83A.045(2), 83A.050
   Creation, abolishment of city offices, see KRS 83A.080(3), (4)
§ 31.21 MAYOR; MAYOR PRO TEM.
   (A)   Election; term of office. The Mayor of this city shall be elected by
the voters of the city at a regular election. A candidate for Mayor shall be a
resident of the city for not less than one year prior to his or her election.
His or her term of office shall begin on the first day of January following his
or her election and shall be for four years and until his or her successor
qualifies. If a person is elected or appointed as Mayor in response to a
vacancy and serves less than four calendar years, then that period of service
shall not be considered for purposes of re-election a term of office.
   (B)   Qualifications. The Mayor shall be at least 21 years of age, shall be
a qualified voter in the city, and shall reside in the city throughout his or
her term of office.
   (C)   Vacancy. If a vacancy occurs in the office of Mayor, the Commission
shall fill the vacancy within 30 days. If for any reason, any vacancy in the
office of Mayor is not filled within 30 days after it occurs, the Governor
shall promptly fill the vacancy by appointment of a qualified person who shall
serve for the same period as if otherwise appointed.
(KRS 83A.040(1),(2),(6))
      (1)   When voting to fill a vacancy in the office of Mayor, a member of
the City Commission may vote for himself or herself. (KRS 83A.040(2)(b))
      (2)   When voting to fill a vacancy created by the resignation of the
Mayor, the resigning Mayor shall not vote on his or her successor. (KRS 83A.040
(3))
      (3)   No vacancy by reason of a voluntary resignation in the office of
Mayor shall occur unless a written resignation which specifies the resignation
date is tendered to the City Commission. The resignation shall be effective at
the next regular or special meeting of the city legislative body occurring
after the date specified in the written letter of resignation. (KRS 83A.040(7))
      (4)   If a vacancy occurs in the office of Mayor which is required by law
to be filled temporarily by appointment, the City Commission shall immediately
notify in writing both the County Clerk and the Secretary of State of the
vacancy. (KRS 83A.040(8))
      (5)   The City Commission shall elect from among its members an
individual to preside over meetings of the City Commission during any vacancy
in the office of the Mayor in accordance with the provisions of KRS 83A.130
through 83A.150. (KRS 83A.040(2)(d))
   (D)   Powers and duties.
      (1)   The Mayor shall preside at all meetings of the Commission and may
vote in all proceedings.
      (2)   All bonds, notes, contracts, and written obligations of the city
authorized by ordinance or resolution shall be executed by the Mayor on behalf
of the city.
(KRS 83A.140(4))
   (E)   Mayor Pro Tem.
      (1)   The Mayor Pro-Tem for the city shall be the candidate elected to
the Commission who receives the highest amount of votes in the general election
next preceding the new two-year term of office for the Commissioners. The Mayor
Pro-Tem shall serve a term of two years to correspond to his or her term as
Commissioner.
      (2)   In the event that the Mayor is unable to attend the meetings of the
Commission, then the Mayor Pro-Tem shall assume the duties at that meeting. In
the event that the Mayor of the city is unable to attend to the duties of his
office, then upon the vote of majority of all members of the Commission, the
Mayor Pro-Tem shall then possess all rights, powers and duties of the Mayor.
(KRS 83A.140 (4)) ('84 Code, § 120.2) (Ord. 1984-1, effective 2-7-84; Am. Ord.
1985-7, effective 12-17-85)
§ 31.22 COMMISSIONERS.
   For provisions concerning the City Commission, see
Chapter 32.
NONELECTED CITY OFFICIALS
§ 31.35 ESTABLISHMENT OF NONELECTED CITY OFFICES.
   (A)   All nonelected city offices shall be created by ordinance which shall
specify:
      (1)   Title of office;
      (2)   Powers and duties of office;
      (3)   Oath of office;
      (4)   Bond, if required; and
      (5)   Compensation.
   (B)   All nonelected city officers shall be appointed by the Commission.
   (C)   All nonelected officers may be removed by the Commission at will
unless otherwise provided by statute or ordinance.
   (D)   The following are nonelected city offices:
      (1)   City Clerk;
      (2)   City Treasurer;
      (3)   City Attorney.
(Ord. 1982-8, effective 1-12-83)
Statutory reference:
   Nonelected city offices, see KRS 83A.080(1),(2)
§ 31.36 CITY CLERK.
   (A)   The city hereby establishes the office of the City Clerk.
   (B)   The office of the City Clerk may, by ordinance, be combined with any
other nonelected city office by inclusion of the title and duties of such
office.
   (C)   The duties and responsibilities of the Clerk shall include, but are
not limited to the following:
      (1)   Maintenance and safekeeping of the permanent records of the city;
      (2)   Performance of the duties required of the “official custodian” or
“custodian” pursuant to KRS 61.870 through 61.882;
      (3)   Possession of the seal of the city if used;
      (4)   No later than January 31 of each year, mail to the Department for
Local Government, a list containing current city information including but not
limited to the following:
         (a)   The correct name of the Mayor, legislative body members, and the
following appointed officials who are serving as of January 1 of each year:
            1.   City Clerk;
            2.   City Treasurer; and
            3.   City Attorney;
         (b)   The correct name of the city, mailing address for city hall, and
telephone number of the city hall; and
         (c)   The name and telephone number of either an elected or appointed
official to serve as a contact person that may be reached during normal
business hours of 8:00 a.m. to 4:30 p.m.; and
      (5)   Service as the Clerk for the Commission and the city.
      (6)   Attendance at all regular and special meetings of the Commission,
and recording all proceedings and preparing minutes of all regular and special
meetings of the Commission.
      (7)   Publication of ordinances after adoption.
      (8)   Possession of all necessary powers and authority to carry out the
functions of this office as conferred upon the Clerk by law.
      (9)   Collection of all property taxes assessed by the city.
      (10)   Performance of all other duties and responsibilities required of
the City Clerk by statute or ordinance.
      (11)   The Department for Local Governmetn shall immediately forward one
copy of the information received from each City Clerk to the Legislative
Research Commission.
(KRS 83A.085)
   (D)   Tax assessing duties. The City Clerk shall prepare an annual
assessment list for all real property within the city, shall prepare the annual
property assessment bills, shall possess all necessary powers and authority to
carry out the functions of this office as conferred by law, and shall perform
all other duties as required by the City Commission.
   (E)   Compensation shall be in the amount as established by the City
Commission from time to time as set forth in §
31.02.
   (F)   No person shall be appointed or act as the City Clerk unless such
person has taken the oath required by section 228 of the Constitution of the
Commonwealth of Kentucky and has provided in the amount of $5,000, with
corporate surety authorized to transact business in Kentucky and conditioned
upon the performance of the duties specified herein.
('84 Code, § 160.2) (Ord. 1982, effective 1-12-83; Am. Ord. 1983-4, effective
3-23-83; Am. Ord. 1989-4, effective 4-4-89)
§ 31.37 CITY TREASURER.
   (A)   The city hereby establishes the office of the City Treasurer.
   (B)   The City Treasurer shall implement and maintain the financial affairs
of the city relating to the receipt, deposit, custody, and disbursements of
city funds, shall attend all regular meetings of the Commission, shall make a
monthly report to the Commission of the financial disposition of the accounts
of the city, shall pay all bills and expenses of the city as directed by the
Commission, shall possess all the necessary powers and authority to carry out
the functions of this office as conferred upon the Treasurer by law, and shall
perform all other duties and functions assigned to the Treasurer by the City
Commission.
   (C)   The Treasurer shall be compensated in the amount as established by the
City Commission from time to time as set forth in §
31.02.
   (D)   No person shall be appointed or act as the City Treasurer unless such
person has taken the oath required by section 228 of the Constitution of the
Commonwealth of Kentucky and has provided bond in the amount of $25,000, with
corporate surety authorized to transact business in Kentucky and conditioned
upon the performance of the duties specified herein.
('84 Code, § 160.3) (Ord. 1982-8, effective 1-12-83; Am. Ord. 1983-4, effective
3-23-83; Am. Ord. 1989-4, effective 4-4-89)
§ 31.38 CITY ATTORNEY.
   (A)   The city hereby establishes the office of the City Attorney.
   (B)   The City Attorney shall attend all regular meetings of the City
Commission, shall advise the Commission in all legal proceedings, legal
matters, or matters of litigation, shall possess all the necessary powers and
authority to carry out the functions of this office as conferred on the City
Attorney by law, and shall perform all other duties as required by the
Commission.
   (C)   Compensation for the City Attorney shall be in the amount as
established by the City Commission from time to time as set forth in §
31.02.
   (D)   No person shall be appointed or act as the City Attorney unless such
person has taken the oath required by section 228 of the Constitution of the
Commonwealth of Kentucky and has provided bond, if required, with corporate
surety authorized to transact business in Kentucky and conditioned upon the
performance of the duties specified herein.
('84 Code, § 160.4) (Ord. 1982-8, effective 1-12-83; Am. Ord. 1983-4, effective
3-23-83; Am. Ord. 1990-1, effective 2-6-90; Am. Ord. 1993-1, effective 2-2-93)
§ 31.39 ZONING ADMINISTRATOR/BUILDING INSPECTOR.
   (A)   The city hereby establishes the office of the Zoning Administrator/
Building Inspector.
   (B)   The Zoning Administrator/Building Inspector shall perform all the
duties and functions of this office as required by the zoning code previously
adopted by the city, shall make a report to the City Commission regarding the
issuance of permits, collection of fees and other matters related to the zoning
code, shall be responsible for the enforcement of all provisions of the zoning
code, shall possess all of the necessary powers and authority to carry out the
functions of this office as conferred upon him or her by law and shall perform
all other duties as required by the City Commission.
   (C)   Compensation for services shall be as provided by separate ordinance
of the city and/or by separate contract.
   (D)   No person shall be appointed or act as the Zoning Administrator/
Building Inspector unless such person has taken the oath required by section
228 of the Constitution of the Commonwealth of Kentucky and has provided bond,
if required, with corporate surety authorized to transact business in Kentucky
and conditioned upon the performance of the duties specified herein.
('84 Code, § 160.7) (Ord. 1982-8, effective 1-12-83)
§ 31.40 CITY CODE ENFORCEMENT OFFICER.
   (A)   There are hereby created within the City, the positions of Code
Enforcement Officer Grade 1 and Code Enforcement Officer Grade 2. The Code
Enforcement Officers shall have the authority to enforce all city ordinances
pursuant to KRS 65.8801 through 65.8839.
   (B)   The positions of Code Enforcement Officer Grade 1 and 2 shall be part
time positions with the hours of employment established by the Mayor.
   (C)   Code Enforcement Officer Grade 1 shall be compensated at an annual
rate, paid in quarterly installments. Code Enforcement Officer Grade 2 shall be
compensated at an hourly rate, paid in monthly installments. The hourly rate
shall be $12 per hour.
(Ord. 1998-7, effective 6-2-98; Am. Ord. 2000-1, effective 1-4-00; Am. Ord.
2001-06, effective 2-1-01)
CHAPTER 32: CITY COMMISSION
Section
General Provisions
   
32.01   Members; election, qualifications, compensation
   
32.02   Vacancies
   
32.03   Powers and duties
   
32.04   Each Commissioner to superintend specific city departments
Rules of Procedure
   
32.20   Mayor as Presiding Officer
   
32.21   Meetings
   
32.22   Quorum
Ordinances
   
32.35   One subject; title
   
32.36   Introduction; enacting clause
   
32.37   Form of amendment
   
32.38   Reading requirement; exception for emergency
   
32.39   Adoption of standard codes by reference
   
32.40   Official city records
   
32.41   Indexing and maintenance requirements
   
32.42   Publication requirements
   
32.43   Additional requirements for adoption may be established by city
   
32.44   Periodic review required
   
32.45   Municipal orders
   
32.46   Proved by City Clerk; received in evidence
   
32.47   Legislative immunity
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 32.01 MEMBERS; ELECTION, QUALIFICATIONS, COMPENSATION.
   (A)   Election; term of office. Each Commissioner shall be elected at-large
by the voters of the city at a regular election. A candidate for Commissioner
shall be a resident of the city for not leww than one year prior to his or her
election. Terms of office begin on the first day of January following his
election and shall be for two years.
   (B)   Qualifications. A member shall be at least 18 years of age, shall be a
qualified voter in the city, and shall reside in the city throughout his term
of office.
(KRS 83A.040(4))
   (C)   Compensation. For provisions concerning compensation, see §
31.02.
§ 32.02 VACANCIES.
   (A)   Vacancies. If one or more vacancies on the Commission occur in a way
that one or more members remain seated, the remaining members shall within 30
days fill the vacancies one at a time, giving each new appointee reasonable
notice of his selection as will enable him to meet and act with the remaining
members in making further appointments until all vacancies are filled. If
vacancies occur in a way that all seats become vacant, the Governor shall
appoint qualified persons to fill the vacancies sufficient to constitute a
quorum. Remaining vacancies shall be filled as provided in this section. (KRS
83A.040(5))
      (1)   No vacancy by reason of a voluntary resignation of a member of the
City Commission shall occur unless a written resignation which specifies a
resignation date is tendered to the City Commission. The resignation shall be
effective at the next regular or special meeting of the legislative body
occurring after the date specified in the written letter of resignation. (KRS
83A.040(7))
      (2)   If a vacancy occurs on the City Commission which is required by law
to be filled temporarily by appointment, the City Commission shall immediately
notify in writing both the County Clerk and the Secretary of State of the
vacancy. (KRS 83A.040(8))
   (B)   Failure to fill vacancies. If for any reason, any vacancy in the
Commission is not filled within 30 days after it occurs, the Governor shall
promptly fill the vacancy by appointment of a qualified person who shall serve
for the same period as if otherwise appointed.
(KRS 83A.040(6))
Statutory reference:
   Filling of vacancies for nonpartisan city office, see KRS 83A.175
§ 32.03 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   All legislative, executive, and administrative authority of the city
is hereby vested in and exercised by the Commission. The Commission shall
enforce the Commission Plan, ordinances and orders of the city, and all
applicable statutes.
      (1)   The Commission shall maintain liaison with related units of local
government respecting interlocal contracting and joint activities.
      (2)   The Commission shall supervise all departments of city government
and the conduct of all city officers and employees under its jurisdiction and
may require each department to make such reports to it as it finds necessary.
      (3)   The Commission shall report to the public on the condition and
needs of the city government as provided by ordinance, but not less than
annually.
(KRS 83A.140 (3))
   (B)   In carrying out its duty to supervise the departments of city
government and the conduct of all city officers and employees under its
jurisdiction, the Commission may require any city officer or employee to
prepare and submit to it sworn statements regarding the performance of his or
her official duties. (KRS 83A.140(5))
   (C)   The Commission shall by ordinance establish all appointive offices and
the duties and responsibilities of those offices and codes, rules, and
regulations for the public health, safety, and welfare.
   (D)   The Commission shall promulgate procedures to insure orderly
administration of the functions of city government and compliance with statute,
ordinance, or order.
   (E)   The Commission shall by ordinance provide for sufficient revenue to
operate city government and shall appropriate such funds in a budget which
shall provide for the orderly management of the city's resources.
(KRS 83A.140(8))
§ 32.04 EACH COMMISSIONER TO SUPERINTEND SPECIFIC CITY DEPARTMENTS.
   (A)   All administrative and service functions of the city shall be
classified under departments created by ordinance which shall prescribe the
functions of the department and the duties and responsibilities of the
department head and his employees.
   (B)   The Commission shall at its first regular meeting in each year
designate the Commission member to have superintendence over each department
established under this section; however, the Commission may delegate
responsibility for overall supervision of any or all departments to a City
Administrative Officer established pursuant to KRS 83A.090.
(KRS 83A.140(6))
RULES OF PROCEDURE
§ 32.20 MAYOR AS PRESIDING OFFICER.
   The Mayor shall preside at all meetings of the Commission and may vote in
all proceedings. (KRS 83A.140(4))
Cross-reference:
   Vacancy in office of Mayor; Mayor Pro Tem, see §
31.21
§ 32.21 MEETINGS.
   (A)   The regular meetings of the Commissioners of the city shall be held on
the second and third Tuesdays of each and every month at 7:30 p.m. at the City
of Crestview City Building, 14 Circle Drive. ('84 Code, § 140.01) (Ord. 1983-6,
effective 4-13-83; Am. Ord. 1987-6, effective 12-1-87; Am. Ord. 1990-9,
effective 6-19-90; Am. Ord. 2000-6, effective 5-23-00; Am. Ord. 2000-15,
effective 9-26-00; Am. Ord. 2002- 09, effective 12-10-02)
   (B)   Special meetings may be called by the Mayor or a majority of the City
Commissioners. In the call, the Mayor or City Commissioners shall designate the
purpose, time, and place of the special meeting with sufficient notice for the
attendance of Commission members and for compliance with KRS Chapter 61. At a
special meeting no business may be considered other than that set forth in the
designation of purpose.
   (C)   The minutes of every meeting shall be signed by the person responsible
for maintaining city records as provided under §
31.36 and by the officer presiding at the meeting.
   (D)   The agenda for the meeting shall be as follows:
      (1)   Call to order;
      (2)   Pledge of Allegiance;
      (3)   Roll call;
      (4)   Opening of bids;
      (5)   Reading of minutes;
      (6)   Expenditures;
      (7)   Committee reports;
      (8)   Old business;
      (9)   New business;
      (10)   Resolutions, orders and ordinances;
      (11)   Recognition of visitors; and
      (12)   Adjournment.
   (E)   Each person in attendance may address the Commission on any issue
during the recognition of visitors’ part of the meeting. Each person may
address the Commission for a period not to exceed five minutes. Each person may
address the Commission once on each subject being addressed to the Commission.
(KRS 83A.140(7)) (Am. Ord. 1998-9, effective 9-1-98; Am. Ord. 1999-2, effective
2-2-99; Am. Ord. 2002-09, effective 12-10-02)
§ 32.22 QUORUM.
   Unless otherwise provided by statute, a majority of the Commission
constitutes a quorum and a vote of a majority of a quorum is sufficient to take
action.
(KRS 83A.060(6))
ORDINANCES
§ 32.35 ONE SUBJECT; TITLE.
   Each ordinance shall embrace only one subject and shall have a title that
shall clearly state the subject.
(KRS 83A.060(1))
§ 32.36 INTRODUCTION; ENACTING CLAUSE.
   Each ordinance shall be introduced in writing and shall have an enacting
clause styled “Be it ordained by the City of Crestview.”
(KRS 83A.060(2))
§ 32.37 FORM OF AMENDMENT.
   No ordinance shall be amended by reference to its title only, and ordinances
to amend shall set out in full the amended ordinance or section indicating any
text being added by a single solid line drawn underneath it. Text that is
intended to be removed shall be marked at the beginning with an opening bracket
and at the end with a closing bracket. The text between the brackets shall be
stricken through with a single solid line.
(KRS 83A.060(3))
§ 32.38 READING REQUIREMENT; EXCEPTION FOR EMERGENCY.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (B) of this section, no ordinance shall
be enacted until it has been read on two separate days. The reading of an
ordinance may be satisfied by stating the title and reading a summary rather
than the full text.
   (B)   In an emergency, upon the affirmative vote of two-thirds of the
membership, the Commission may suspend the requirements of second reading and
publication in order for an ordinance to become effective by naming and
describing the emergency in the ordinance. Publication requirements of §
32.42 shall be complied with within ten days of the enactment of the emergency
ordinance.
(KRS 83A.060(4),(7))
§ 32.39 ADOPTION OF STANDARD CODES BY REFERENCE.
   The Commission may adopt the provisions of any local, statewide, or
nationally recognized standard code and codifications of entire bodies of local
legislation by an ordinance that identifies the subject matter by title,
source, and date and incorporates the adopted provisions by reference without
setting them out in full, if a copy accompanies the adopting ordinance and is
made a part of the permanent records of the city.
(KRS 83A.060(5))
§ 32.40 OFFICIAL CITY RECORDS.
   (A)   Every action of the Commission is hereby made a part of the permanent
records of the city and on passage of an ordinance the vote of each member of
the Commission shall be entered on the official record of the meeting.
   (B)   The Commission has provided, under the provisions of §§
31.36(C) and
32.41, for the maintenance and safekeeping of the permanent records of the
city. The City Clerk and the presiding officer shall sign the official record
of each meeting.
(KRS 83A.060(8))
§ 32.41 INDEXING AND MAINTENANCE REQUIREMENTS.
   At the end of each month, all ordinances adopted by the city shall be
indexed and maintained by the City Clerk in the following manner:
   (A)   The city budget, appropriations of money, and tax levies shall be
maintained and indexed so that each fiscal year is kept separate from other
years.
   (B)   All other city ordinances shall be kept in the minute book or an
ordinance book in the order adopted and maintained in this code of ordinances.
(KRS 83A.060(8))
§ 32.42 PUBLICATION REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Except as provided in §
32.38(B), no ordinance shall be effective until published pursuant to KRS
Chapter 424.
   (B)   Ordinances may be published in full or in summary as designated by the
Commission. If the Commission elects to publish an ordinance in summary, the
summary shall be prepared or certified by an attorney licensed to practice law
in the Commonwealth of Kentucky and shall include the following:
      (1)   The title of the ordinance;
      (2)   A brief narrative setting forth the main points of the ordinance in
a way reasonably calculated to inform the public in a clear and understandable
manner of the meaning of the ordinance; and
      (3)   The full text of each section that imposes taxes or fees.
   (C)   Ordinances that include descriptions of real property may include a
sketch, drawing, or map, including common landmarks, such as streets or roads
in lieu of metes and bounds descriptions.
(KRS 83A.060(9))
§ 32.43 ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENTS FOR ADOPTION MAY BE ESTABLISHED BY CITY.
   The city may, by ordinance, specify additional requirements for adoption of
ordinances in greater detail than contained herein, but the city may not lessen
or reduce the substantial requirements of this chapter or any statute relating
to adoption of ordinances.
(KRS 83A.060(10))
§ 32.44 PERIODIC REVIEW REQUIRED.
   Not less than once every five years all ordinances in this code of
ordinances shall be examined for consistency with state law and with one
another and shall be revised to eliminate redundant, obsolete, inconsistent,
and invalid provisions.
(KRS 83A.060(11))
§ 32.45 MUNICIPAL ORDERS.
   (A)   The Commission may adopt municipal orders. All municipal orders shall
be in writing and shall be adopted only at an official meeting. Orders may be
amended only by a subsequent municipal order or ordinance. All orders adopted
shall be maintained in an official order book.
   (B)   In lieu of an ordinance, municipal orders may be used for matters
relating to the internal operation and functions of the city and to appoint or
remove or approve appointment or removal of members of boards, commissions, and
other agencies over which the Commission has control.
(KRS 83A.060(12), (13))
§ 32.46 PROVED BY CITY CLERK; RECEIVED IN EVIDENCE.
   All ordinances and orders of the city may be proved by the signature of the
City Clerk; and when the ordinances are placed in this code of ordinances by
authority of the city, the printed copy shall be received in evidence by any
state court without further proof of such ordinances.
(KRS 83A.060(14))
§ 32.47 LEGISLATIVE IMMUNITY.
   For anything said in debate, City Commissioners shall be entitled to the
same immunities and protections allowed to members of the General Assembly.
(KRS 83A.060(15))
Statutory reference:
   Privileges of members of General Assembly, see KRS 6.050 and Ky. Const. § 43
CHAPTER 33: FINANCE AND REVENUE
Section
Financial Administration
   
33.01   Definitions
   
33.02   Accounting records and financial reports
   
33.03   Annual budget ordinance
   
33.04   Annual audit of city funds
   
33.05   Official depositories; disbursement of city funds
   
33.06   Expenditures
Improvements
   
33.10   Definitions
   
33.11   Financing of improvements
   
33.12   Apportionment of cost
   
33.13   Comprehensive report required
   
33.14   Public hearing required
   
33.15   Adoption of ordinance; notice to affected owners
   
33.16   Affected owner may contest
   
33.17   When city may proceed; assessment constitutes lien
   
33.18   Effect of additional property or change in financing
FINANCIAL ADMINISTRATION
§ 33.01 DEFINITIONS.
   As used in this subchapter, unless the context otherwise requires, the
following definitions shall apply:
   BUDGET. A proposed plan for raising and spending money for specified
programs, functions, activities, or objectives during a fiscal year.
   DEBT SERVICE. The sum of money required to pay installments of principal and
interest on bonds, notes, and other evidences of debt accruing within a fiscal
year and to maintain sinking funds.
   ENCUMBRANCES. Obligations in the form of purchase orders or contracts that
are chargeable to an appropriation. An obligation ceases to be an encumbrance
when paid or when the actual liability is recorded.
   FISCAL YEAR. The accounting period for the administration of fiscal
operations.
   GENERALLY ACCEPTED GOVERNMENTAL AUDITING STANDARDS. Those standards for
audit of governmental organizations, programs, activities and functions issued
by the Comptroller General of the United States.
   GENERALLY ACCEPTED PRINCIPLES OF GOVERNMENTAL ACCOUNTING. Those standards
and procedures promulgated and recognized by the National Council of
Governmental Accounting, the Municipal Finance Officers of the United States
and Canada, and the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants.
(KRS 91A.010)
§ 33.02 ACCOUNTING RECORDS AND FINANCIAL REPORTS.
   (A)   The city shall keep its accounting records and render financial
reports in such a way as to:
      (1)   Determine compliance with statutory provisions; and
      (2)   Determine fairly and with full disclosure the financial operations
of constituent funds and account groups of the city in conformity with
generally accepted governmental accounting principles.
   (B)   The municipal accounting system shall be organized and operated on a
fund basis.
(KRS 91A.020)
§ 33.03 ANNUAL BUDGET ORDINANCE.
   (A)   The city shall operate under an annual budget ordinance adopted and
administered in accordance with the provisions of this section. Not
withstanding any other provision of law, no monies shall be expended from any
governmental or proprietary fund, except in accordance with a budget ordinance
adopted pursuant to this section.
   (B)   Monies held by the city as a trustee or agent for individuals, private
organizations, or other governmental units need not be included in the budget
ordinance.
   (C)   If in any fiscal year subsequent to a fiscal year in which the city
has adopted a budget ordinance in accordance with this section, no budget
ordinance is adopted, the budget ordinance of the previous fiscal year has full
force and effect as if readopted.
   (D)   The budget ordinance of the city shall cover one fiscal year.
   (E)   Preparation of the budget proposal shall be the responsibility of the
Commission.
   (F)   The budget proposal shall be prepared in such form and detail as is
prescribed by ordinance.
   (G)   The budget proposal together with a budget message shall be submitted
to the Commission not later than 30 days prior to the beginning of the fiscal
year it covers. The budget message shall contain an explanation of the
governmental goals fixed by the budget for the coming fiscal year; explain
important features of the activities anticipated in the budget; set forth the
reasons for stated changes from the previous year in program goals, programs,
and appropriation levels; and explain any major changes in fiscal policy.
   (H)   (1)   The Commission shall adopt the budget ordinance making
appropriations for the fiscal year in such sums as it finds sufficient and
proper, whether greater or less than the sums recommended in the budget
proposal. The budget ordinance may be any form that the Commission finds most
efficient in enabling it to make the necessary fiscal policy decisions.
      (2)   No budget ordinance shall be adopted which provides for
appropriations to exceed revenues in any one fiscal year in violation of
section 157 of the Kentucky Constitution.
   (I)   The full amount estimated to be required for debt service during the
budget year shall be appropriated, for all governmental fund types.
   (J)   The Commission may amend the budget ordinance at any time after the
ordinance's adoption, so long as the amended ordinance continues to satisfy the
requirements of this section.
   (K)   Administration and implementation of an adopted budget ordinance shall
be the responsibility of the Commission. Such responsibility includes the
preparation and submission to the Commission of operating statements, including
budgetary comparisons of each governmental fund for which an annual budget has
been adopted. Such reports shall be submitted not less than once every three
months in each fiscal year.
   (L)   To the extent practical, the system utilized in the administration and
implementation of the adopted budget ordinance shall be consistent in form with
the accounting system called for in §
33.02.
   (M)   No city agency, or member, director, officer, or employee of any city
agency, may bind the city in any way to any extent beyond the amount of money
at that time appropriated for the purpose of the agency. All contracts,
agreements, and obligations, express or implied, beyond such existing
appropriations are void; nor shall any city officer issue any bond,
certificate, or warrant for the payment of money by the city in any way to any
extent, beyond the balance of any appropriation made for the purpose.
(KRS 91A.030)
§ 33.04 ANNUAL AUDIT OF CITY FUNDS.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (B) of this section, the city shall
after the close of each fiscal year cause each fund of the city to be audited
by the auditor of public accounts or a certified public accountant. The audit
shall be completed by February 1 immediately following the fiscal year being
audited. The city shall forward an electronic copy the audit report to the
Department for Local Government for information purposes by no later than March
1 immediately following the fiscal year being audited.
   (B)   If the city, which for any fiscal year receives and expends, from all
sources and for all purposes, less than $75,000, and has no long-term debt,
whether general obligation or revenue debt, it shall not be required to audit
each fund of the city for that particular fiscal year. Each city exempted in
accordance with this division shall annually prepare a financial statement in
accordance with KRS 424.220 and shall not later than October 1 following the
conclusion of the fiscal year, forward one electronic copy to the Department of
Local Government for information purposes.
   (C)   Each city requiredby this section to conduct an annual or biennial
audit shall enter into a written contract with the selected auditor. The
contract shall set forth all terms and conditions of the agreement which shall
include, but not be limited to, requirements that:
      (1)   The auditor be employed to examine the basic financial statements
which shall include the government-wide and fund financial statements;
      (2)   The auditor shall include in the annual city audit report an
examination of local government economic assistance funds granted to the city
under KRS 42.450 to 42.495. The auditor shall include a certification with the
annual audit report that the funds were expended for the purpose intended.
      (3)   All audit information be prepared in accordance with generally
accepted governmental auditing standards which includes such tests of the
accounting records and such auditing procedures as considered necessary under
the circumstances. Where the audit is to cover the use of state or federal
funds, appropriate state or federal guidelines shall be utilized;
      (4)   The auditor prepare a typewritten or printed report embodying:
         (a)   The basic financial statements and accompanying supplemental and
required supplemental information;
         (b)   The auditor's opinion on the basic financial statements or
reasons why an opinion cannot be expressed; and
         (c)   Findings required to be reported as a result of the audit.
      (5)   The completed audit and all accompanying documentation shall be
presented to the Commission at a regular or special meeting;
      (6)   Any contract with a certified public accountant for an audit shall
require the accountant to forward a copy of the audit report and management
letters to the Auditor of Public Accounts upon request of the city or the
Auditor of Public Accounts, and the Auditor of Public Accounts shall have the
right to review the certified public accountant's work papers upon request.
   (D)   A copy of an audit report which meets the requirements of this section
shall be considered satisfactory and final in meeting any official request to
the city for financial data, except for statutory or judicial requirements, or
requirements of the Legislative Research Commission necessary to carry out the
purposes of KRS 6.955 to 6.975.
   (E)   Each city shall, within 30 days after the presentation of an audit to
the city legislative body, publish an advertisement, in accordance with KRS
Chapter 424, containing:
      (1)   The auditor's opinion letter;
      (2)   The "Budgetary Comparison Schedules-Major Funds," which shall
include the general fund and all major funds;
      (3)   A statement that a copy of the complete audit report, including
financial statements and supplemental information, is on file at city hall and
is available for public inspection during normal business hours;
      (4)   A statement that any citizen may obtain from city hall a copy of
the complete audit report, including financial statements and supplemental
information, for his personal use;
      (5)   A statement which notifies citizens requesting a personal copy of
the city audit report that they will be charged for duplication costs at a rate
that shall not exceed twenty five cents ($0.25) per page; and
      (6)   A statement that copies of the financial statement prepared in
accordance with KRS 424.220 are available to the public at no cost at the
business address of the officer responsible for preparation of the statement.
   (F)   The city may utilize the alternative publication methods authorized by
KRS 424.190(2) to comply with the provisions of this section.
   (G)   Any person who violates any provision of this section shall be fined
not less than $50 nor more than $500. In addition, any officer who fails to
comply with any of the provisions of this section shall, for each failure, be
subject to a forfeiture of not less than $50 nor more than $500, in the
discretion of the court, which may be recovered only once, in a civil action
brought by any resident of the city. The costs of all proceedings, including a
reasonable fee for the attorney of the resident bringing the action, shall be
assessed against the unsuccessful party.
   (H)   Within a reasonable time after the completion of a special audit or
examination conducted pursuant to KRS 43.050, the Auditor shall bill the city
for the actual expense of the audit or examination conducted. The actual
expense shall include the hours of work performed on the audit or examination
as well as reasonable associated costs, including but not limited to travel
costs. The bill submitted to the city shall include a statement of the hourly
rate, total hours, and total costs for the entire audit or examination.
(KRS 91A.040)
Statutory reference:
   Department for Local Government to provide assistance, see KRS 91A.050
§ 33.05 OFFICIAL DEPOSITORIES; DISBURSEMENT OF CITY FUNDS.
   (A)   The Commission shall designate as the city's official depositories one
or more banks, federally insured savings and loan companies, or trust companies
within the Commonwealth. The amount of funds on deposit in an official
depository shall be fully insured by deposit insurance or collateralized in
accordance with 12 U.S.C. sec. 1823, to the extent uninsured, by any
obligations, including surety bonds permitted by KRS 41.240(4).
   (B)   All receipts from any source of city money or money for which the city
is responsible, which has not been otherwise invested or deposited in a manner
authorized by law, shall be deposited in official depositories. All city funds
shall be disbursed by written authorization approved by the Commission which
states the name of the person to whom funds are payable, the purpose of the
payment and the fund out of which the funds are payable. Each authorization
shall be numbered and recorded.
(KRS 91A.060)
§ 33.06 EXPENDITURES.
   No expenditures in excess of $250 may be made without City Commission
approval subject to emergency provisions as established by this city by
municipal order.
('84 Code, § 150.9) (Ord. 1986-6, effective 8-19-86)
IMPROVEMENTS
§ 33.10 DEFINITIONS.
   As used in this subchapter, unless the context otherwise requires, the
following definitions shall apply:
   ASSESSED VALUE BASIS. The apportionment of cost of an improvement according
to the ratio the assessed value of individual parcels of property bears to the
total assessed value of all such properties.
   BENEFITS RECEIVED BASIS. The apportionment of cost of an improvement
according to equitable determination by the Commission of the special benefit
received by property from the improvement, including assessed value basis,
front foot basis, and square foot basis, or any combination thereof, and may
include consideration of assessed value of land only, graduation for different
classes of property based on nature and extent of special benefits received,
and other factors affecting benefits received.
   COST. All costs related to an improvement, including planning, design,
property or easement acquisition and construction costs, fiscal and legal fees,
financing costs, and publication expenses.
   FAIR BASIS. Assessed value basis, front foot basis, square foot basis, or
benefits received basis.
   FRONT FOOT BASIS. The apportionment of cost of an improvement according to
the ratio the front footage on the improvement of individual parcels of
property bears to such front footage of all such properties.
   IMPROVEMENT. Construction of any facility for public use or services or any
addition thereto, which is of special benefit to specific properties in the
area served by such facility.
   PROPERTY. Any real property benefitted by an improvement.
   SPECIAL ASSESSMENT or ASSESSMENT. A special charge fixed on property to
finance an improvement in whole or in part.
   SQUARE FOOT BASIS. The apportionment of cost of an improvement according to
the ratio the square footage of individual parcels of property bears to the
square footage of all such property.
(KRS 91A.210)
§ 33.11 FINANCING OF IMPROVEMENTS.
   (A)   The city may not finance any improvement, in whole or in part, through
special assessments except as provided in this subchapter and in any applicable
statutes. (KRS 91A.200)
   (B)   Cost of an improvement shall be apportioned equitably on a fair basis.
   (C)   The city may provide for lump sum or installment payment of
assessments or for bond or other long-term financing, and for any improvement
may afford property owners the option as to method of payment or financing.
(KRS 91A.220)
§ 33.12 APPORTIONMENT OF COST.
   The cost of any improvement shall be apportioned on a benefits received
basis with respect to any property owned by the state, a local unit of
government, or any educational, religious, or charitable organization. The
Commission may assess such property in the same manner as for privately owned
property or it may pay the costs so apportioned out of general revenues.
(KRS 91A.230)
§ 33.13 COMPREHENSIVE REPORT REQUIRED.
   Before undertaking any improvements pursuant to this subchapter, the city
shall prepare a comprehensive report setting out:
   (A)   The nature of the improvement;
   (B)   The scope and the extent of the improvement, including the boundaries
or other description of the area to be assessed;
   (C)   The preliminary estimated cost of the improvement;
   (D)   The fair basis of assessment proposed;
   (E)   If financing of assessments is provided, the proposed method,
including the proposed years to maturity of any bonds to be issued in
connection with the improvement; and
   (F)   Such other information as may further explain material aspects of the
improvement, assessments, or financing.
(KRS 91A.240)
§ 33.14 PUBLIC HEARING REQUIRED.
   After preparation of the report required by §
33.13, the city shall hold at least one public hearing on the proposed
improvement at which all interested persons shall be heard. Notice of the
hearing shall be published pursuant to KRS Chapter 424, and mailed to each
affected property owner by certified mail, return receipt requested, and shall
include:
   (A)   The nature of the improvement;
   (B)   Description of area of the improvement;
   (C)   Statement that the city proposes to finance the improvement in whole
or in part by special assessment of property and the method to be used;
   (D)   Time and place the report may be examined; and
   (E)   Time and place of the hearing.
(KRS 91A.250)
§ 33.15 ADOPTION OF ORDINANCE; NOTICE TO AFFECTED OWNERS.
   Within 90 days of conclusion of the hearing, the city shall determine
whether to proceed with the improvement by special assessments, and if it
determines to proceed shall adopt an ordinance so stating and containing all
necessary terms, including the items referred to in §
33.13 and a description of all properties. Promptly upon passage the city shall
publish such ordinance pursuant to KRS Chapter 424 and shall mail by certified
mail to each affected property owner a notice of determination to proceed with
the project, the fair basis of assessment to be utilized, the estimated cost to
the property owner, and the ratio the cost to each property owner bears to the
total cost of the entire project.
(KRS 91A.260)
§ 33.16 AFFECTED OWNER MAY CONTEST.
   (A)   Within 30 days of the mailing of the notice provided for in §
33.15, any affected property owner may file an action in the circuit court of
the county, contesting the undertaking of the project by special assessment,
the inclusion of his property in the improvement, or the amount of his
assessment. If the action contests the undertaking of the improvement by the
special assessment method of the inclusion of the property of that property
owner, no further action on the improvement insofar as it relates to any
property owner who is a plaintiff shall be taken until the final judgment has
been entered.
   (B)   The city may proceed with the improvement with respect to any
properties whose owners have not filed or joined in an action as provided in
this section or who have contested only the amounts of their assessments, and
the provisions of the resolution are final and binding with respect to such
property owners except as to contested amounts of assessments. After the lapse
of time as herein provided, all actions by owners of properties are forever
barred.
(KRS 91A.270)
§ 33.17 WHEN CITY MAY PROCEED; ASSESSMENT CONSTITUTES LIEN.
   (A)   After the passage of time for the action provided for in §
33.16, or after favorable final judgment in any such action, whichever comes
later, the city may proceed with the improvement or part thereof stayed by the
action, including notice requiring payment of special assessment or installment
thereon and bonds or other method proposed to finance the improvement. The
first installment may be apportioned so that the other payments will coincide
with payment of ad valorem taxes.
   (B)   The amount of any outstanding assessment or installments thereof on
any property, and accrued interest and other charges, constitutes a lien on the
property to secure payment to the bondholders or any other source of financing
of the improvement. The lien takes precedence over all other liens, whether
created prior to or subsequent to the publication of the ordinance, except a
lien for state and county taxes, general municipal taxes, and prior improvement
taxes, and is not defeated or postponed by any private or judicial sale, by any
mortgage, or by any error or mistake in the description of the property or in
the names of the owners. No error in the proceedings of the Commission shall
exempt any benefitted property from the lien for the improvement assessment, or
from payment thereof, or from the penalties or interest thereon, as herein
provided.
(KRS 91A.280)
§ 33.18 EFFECT OF ADDITIONAL PROPERTY OR CHANGE IN FINANCING.
   The city may undertake any further proceedings to carry out the improvement
or any extension or refinancing thereof, except that §§
33.13 through
33.17 applies if additional property is included in the improvement or if
change is made in the method or period of financing; but additional property
may be included in the improvement with the consent of the owner thereof
without compliance with other sections if it does not increase the cost
apportioned to any other property, or any other change may be made without such
compliance if all property owners of the improvement consent.
(KRS 91A.290)
CHAPTER 34: PUBLIC RECORDS
Section
General
   
34.01   Definitions
Procedures for Requesting Public Records
   
34.05   Initial request with immediate inspection
   
34.06   Referral to proper custodian
   
34.07   Public records not immediately available
   
34.08   Refusal of unreasonable requests
   
34.09   Time limitation; denial of inspection
   
34.10   Concealing or destroying records prohibited
   
34.11   Access to records relating to particular individual
   
34.12   Format of copies
   
34.13   Fees for copies
   
34.14   Misstatement of purpose prohibited
   
34.15   Online access to public records in electronic form
   
34.16   Public records protected from disclosure
   
34.17   Notification of the Attorney General
GENERAL
§ 34.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For purposes of this chapter the following words and phrases shall have the
following meanings ascribed to them respectively.
   CITY. The city government of this city.
   COMMERCIAL PURPOSE. The direct or indirect use of any part of a public
record or records, in any form, for sale, resale, solicitation, rent, or lease
of a service, or any use by which the user expects a profit either through
commission, salary, or fee. COMMERCIAL PURPOSE shall not include:
      (1)   Publication or related use of a public record by a newspaper or
periodical;
      (2)   Use of a public record by a radio or television station in its news
or other informational programs; or
      (3)   Use of a public record in the preparation for prosecution or
defense of litigation, or claims settlement by the parties to such action, or
the attorneys representing the parties.
   CUSTODIAN. The official custodian or any authorized person having personal
custody and control of public records. The CUSTODIAN having personal custody of
most of the public records of this city is the City Clerk.
   MECHANICAL PROCESSING. Any operation or other procedure which is transacted
on a machine, and which may include, but is not limited to a copier, computer,
recorder or tape processor, or other automated device.
   MEDIA. The physical material in or on which records may be stored or
represented, and which may include, but is not limited to paper, microform,
disks, diskettes, optical disks, magnetic tapes, and cards.
   OFFICIAL CUSTODIAN. The chief administrative officer or any other officer or
employee of a public agency who is responsible for the maintenance, care, and
keeping of public records, regardless of whether such records are in his actual
personal custody and control. The OFFICIAL CUSTODIAN of this city shall be the
Mayor.
   PERSON. A human being who makes a request for inspection of public records.
   PRESCRIBED FEE or FEE. The fair payment required by the city for making
copies of public records and for mailing public records, which shall not exceed
the actual cost thereof and shall not include the cost of required staff time.
   PUBLIC AGENCY. 
      (1)   Every state or local government officer;
      (2)   Every state or local government department, division, bureau,
board, commission, and authority;
      (3)   Every state or local legislative board, commission, committee, and
officer;
      (4)   Every county and city governing body, council, school district
board, special district board, and municipal corporation;
      (5)   Every state or local court or judicial agency;
      (6)   Every state or local government agency, including the policy-making
board of an institution of education, created by or pursuant to state or local
statute, executive order, ordinance, resolution, or other legislative act;
      (7)   Any body created by state or local authority in any branch of
government;
      (8)   Any body which, within any fiscal year, derives at least 25% of its
funds expended by it in the Commonwealth of Kentucky from state or local
authority funds. However, any funds derived from a state or local authority in
compensation for goods or services that are provided by a contract obtained
through a competitive procurement process shall not be included in the
determination of whether a body is a public agency under this division (8);
      (9)   Any entity where the majority of its governing body is appointed by
a public agency as defined in this definition; by a member or employee of the
public agency; or by any combination thereof;
      (10)   Any board, commission, committee, subcommittee, ad hoc committee,
advisory committee, council, or agency, except for a committee of a hospital
medical staff, established, created, and controlled by a public agency as
defined in this definition; and
      (11)   Any interagency body of two or more public agencies where each
public agency is defined in this definition.
   PUBLIC RECORDS. All books, papers, maps, photographs, cards, tapes, discs,
diskettes, recordings, software, or other documentation regardless of physical
form or characteristics, which are prepared, owned, used, in the possession of
or retained by the public agency. PUBLIC RECORDS shall not include any records
owned or maintained by or for the public agency that are not related to
functions, activities, programs, or operations funded by the state or local
authority.
   REQUEST. An oral or written application by any person to inspect public
records of the agency.
   SOFTWARE. The program code which makes a computer system function, but does
not include that portion of the program code which contains public records
exempted from inspection as provided by KRS 61.878 or specific addresses of
files, passwords, access codes, user identifications, or any other mechanism
for controlling the security or restricting access to public records in the
public agency's computer system. SOFTWARE consists of the operating system,
application programs, procedures, routines, and subroutines such as translators
and utility programs, but does not include that material which is prohibited
from disclosure or copying by a license agreement between a public agency and
an outside entity which supplied the material to the agency.
(KRS 61.870)
PROCEDURES FOR REQUESTING PUBLIC RECORDS
§ 34.05 INITIAL REQUEST WITH IMMEDIATE INSPECTION.
   (A)   All public records shall be open for inspection by any person, except
as otherwise provided by KRS 61.870 to 61.884, and suitable facilities shall be
made available by each public agency for the exercise of this right. No person
shall remove original copies of public records from the offices of any public
agency without the written permission of the official custodian of the record.
   (B)   Any person shall have the right to inspect public records. The
official custodian may require:
      (1)   Written application, signed by the applicant and with his name
printed legibly on the application, describing the records to be inspected. The
written application shall be hand delivered, mailed, or sent via facsimile to
the public agency;
      (2)   Facsimile transmission of the written application described in
division (B)(1) above; or
      (3)   E-mail of the application described in division (B)(1) above.
   (C)   A person may inspect the public records:
      (1)   During the regular office hours of the public agency; or
      (2)   By receiving copies of the public records from the public agency
through the mail. The public agency shall mail copies of the public records to
a person whose residence or principal place of business is outside the county
in which the public records are located after he precisely describes the public
records which are readily available within the public agency. If the person
requesting the public records requests that copies of the records be mailed,
the official custodian shall mail the copies upon receipt of all fees and the
cost of mailing.
(KRS 61.872(1) - (3))
§ 34.06 REFERRAL TO PROPER CUSTODIAN.
   If the City Clerk does not have custody or control of the public record or
records requested, the City Clerk shall notify the applicant and shall furnish
the name and location of the official custodian of the agency's public records.
(KRS 61.872(4))
§ 34.07 PUBLIC RECORDS NOT IMMEDIATELY AVAILABLE.
   If the public record is in active use, in storage, or not otherwise
available, the official custodian shall immediately notify the applicant and
shall designate a place, time, and date for inspection or mailing of the public
records, not to exceed three days (excepting Saturdays, Sundays, and legal
holidays) from receipt of the application, unless a detailed explanation of the
cause is given for further delay and the place, time, and earliest date on
which the public record will be available for inspection or duplication.
(KRS 61.872(5))
§ 34.08 REFUSAL OF UNREASONABLE REQUESTS.
   If the application places an unreasonable burden in producing public
records, or if the custodian has reason to believe that repeated requests are
intended to disrupt other essential functions of the public agency, the
official custodian may refuse to permit inspection of the public records or
mail copies thereof. However, refusal under this section must be sustained by
clear and convincing evidence.
(KRS 61.872(6))
§ 34.09 TIME LIMITATION; DENIAL OF INSPECTION.
   The official custodian, upon any request for records made under this
chapter, shall determine within three days (excepting Saturdays, Sundays, and
legal holidays) after the receipt of any request whether to comply with the
request and shall notify in writing the person making the request within the
three-day period of its decision. Any agency response denying, in whole or in
part, inspection of any record shall include a statement of the specific
exception authorizing the withholding of the record and a brief explanation of
how the exception applies to the record withheld. The response shall be issued
by the official custodian or under his authority and shall constitute final
agency action.
(KRS 61.880)
§ 34.10 CONCEALING OR DESTROYING RECORDS PROHIBITED.
   No official of the city shall willfully conceal or destroy any record with
the intent to violate the provisions of this chapter or these rules and
regulations.
§ 34.11 ACCESS TO RECORDS RELATING TO PARTICULAR INDIVIDUAL.
   Any person shall have access to any public record relating to him or in
which he is mentioned by name, upon presentation of appropriate identification,
subject to the provisions of §
34.16 of these rules and regulations.
(KRS 61.884)
§ 34.12 FORMAT OF COPIES.
   (A)   Upon inspection, the applicant shall have the right to make abstracts
of the public records and memoranda thereof, and to obtain copies of all public
records not exempted by the terms of §
34.16. When copies are requested, the custodian may require a written request
and advance payment of the prescribed fee, including postage where appropriate.
If the applicant desires copies of public records other than written records,
the custodian of the records shall duplicate the records or permit the
applicant to duplicate the records; however, the custodian shall ensure that
such duplication will not damage or alter the original records.
   (B)   (1)   Nonexempt public records used for noncommercial purposes shall
be available for copying in either standard electronic or standard hard copy
format, as designated by the party requesting the records, where the agency
currently maintains the records in electronic format. Nonexempt public records
used for noncommercial purposes shall be copied in standard hard copy format
where agencies currently maintain records in hard copy format. Agencies are not
required to convert hard copy format records to electronic formats.
      (2)   The minimum standard format in paper form shall be defined as not
less than 8½ inches x 11 inches in at least one color on white paper, or for
electronic format, in a flat file electronic American Standard Code for
Information Interchange (ASCII) format. If the public agency maintains
electronic public records in a format other than ASCII, and this format
conforms to the requestor's requirements, the public record may be provided in
this alternate electronic format for standard fees as specified by the public
agency. Any request for a public record in a form other than the forms
described in this section shall be considered a nonstandardized request.
(KRS 61.874(1) - (3))
§ 34.13 FEES FOR COPIES.
   (A)   The public agency may prescribe a reasonable fee for making copies of
nonexempt public records requested for use for noncommercial purposes which
shall not exceed the actual cost of reproduction, including the costs of the
media and any mechanical processing cost incurred by the public agency, but not
including the cost of staff required. If a public agency is asked to produce a
record in a nonstandardized format, or to tailor the format to meet the request
of an individual or a group, the public agency may at its discretion provide
the requested format and recover staff costs as well as any actual costs
incurred.
   (B)   (1)   Unless an enactment of the General Assembly prohibits the
disclosure of public records to persons who intend to use them for commercial
purposes, if copies of nonexempt public records are requested for commercial
purposes, the public agency may establish a reasonable fee.
      (2)   The public agency from which copies of nonexempt public records are
requested for a commercial purpose may require a certified statement from the
requestor stating the commercial purpose for which they shall be used, and may
require the requestor to enter into a contract with the agency. The contract
shall permit use of the public records for the stated commercial purpose for a
specified fee.
      (3)   The fee provided for in division (B)(1) of this section may be
based on one or both of the following:
         (a)   Cost to the public agency of media, mechanical processing, and
staff required to produce a copy of the public record or records;
         (b)   Cost to the public agency of the creation, purchase, or other
acquisition of the public records.
(KRS 61.874(3),(4))
Cross-reference:
   Fees for online access to public records, see §
34.15
§ 34.14 MISSTATEMENT OF PURPOSE PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for a person to obtain a copy of any part of a public
record for a:
   (A)   Commercial purpose, without stating the commercial purpose, if a
certified statement from the requestor was required by the public agency
pursuant to §
34.13;
   (B)   Commercial purpose, if the person uses or knowingly allows the use of
the public record for a different commercial purpose; or
   (C)   Noncommercial purpose, if the person uses or knowingly allows the use
of the public record for a commercial purpose. A newspaper, periodical, radio
or television station shall not be held to have used or knowingly allowed the
use of the public record for a commercial purpose merely because of its
publication or broadcast, unless it has also given its express permission for
that commercial use.
(KRS 61.874(5)) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 34.15 ONLINE ACCESS TO PUBLIC RECORDS IN ELECTRONIC FORM.
   (A)   Online access to public records in electronic form may be provided and
made available at the discretion of the public agency. If a party wishes to
access public records by electronic means and the public agency agrees to
provide online access, a public agency may require that the party enter into a
contract, license, or other agreement with the agency, and may charge fees for
these agreements.
   (B)   Fees shall not exceed:
      (1)   The cost of physical connection to the system and reasonable cost
of computer time access charges; and
      (2)   If the records are requested for a commercial purpose, a reasonable
fee based on the factors set forth in §
34.13.
(KRS 61.874(6))
§ 34.16 PUBLIC RECORDS PROTECTED FROM DISCLOSURE.
   (A)   The following public records are excluded from the application of this
chapter and these rules and regulations and shall be subject to inspection only
upon order of a court of competent jurisdiction, except that no court shall
authorize the inspection by any party of any materials pertaining to civil
litigation beyond that which is provided by the Rules of Civil Procedure
governing pretrial discovery:
      (1)   Public records containing information of a personal nature where
the public disclosure thereof would constitute a clearly unwarranted invasion
of personal privacy.
      (2)   Records confidentially disclosed to an agency and compiled and
maintained for scientific research. This exemption shall not, however, apply to
records the disclosure or publication of which is directed by other statute.
      (3)   (a)   Upon and after July 15, 1992, records confidentially
disclosed to the agency, or required by an agency to be disclosed to it,
generally recognized as confidential or proprietary, which if openly disclosed
would permit an unfair commercial advantage to competitors of the entity that
disclosed the records.
         (b)   Upon and after July 15, 1992, records confidentially disclosed
to an agency or required by an agency to be disclosed to it, generally
recognized as confidential or proprietary, which are compiled and maintained:
            1.   In conjunction with an application for or the administration
of a loan or a grant;
            2.   In conjunction with an application for or the administration
of assessments, incentives, inducements, and tax credits as described in KRS
Ch. 154;
            3.   In conjunction with the regulation of commercial enterprise,
including mineral exploration records, unpatented, secret commercially valuable
plans, appliances, formulae, or processes, which are used for the making,
preparing, compounding, treating, or processing of articles or materials which
are trade commodities obtained from a person; or
            4.   For the grant or review of a license to do business.
         (c)   The exemptions provided for in divisions (A)(3)(a) and (b)
above, shall not apply to records the disclosure or publication of which is
directed by statute.
      (4)   Public records pertaining to a prospective location of a business
or industry where no previous public disclosure has been made of the business'
or industry's interest in locating in, relocating within, or expanding within
the Commonwealth. This exemption shall not include those records pertaining to
applications to agencies for permits or licenses necessary to do business or to
expand business operations within the state, except as provided in division (A)
(3) above.
      (5)   Public records which are developed by an agency in conjunction with
the regulation or supervision of financial institutions, including but not
limited to, banks, savings and loan associations, and credit unions, which
disclose the agency's internal examining or audit criteria and related
analytical methods.
      (6)   The contents of real estate appraisals or engineering or
feasibility estimates and evaluations made by or for a public agency relative
to the acquisition of property, until such time as all of the property has been
acquired. The law of eminent domain shall not be affected by this provision.
      (7)   Test questions, scoring keys, and other examination data used to
administer a licensing examination, examination for employment, or academic
examination before the exam is given or if it is to be given again.
      (8)   Records of law enforcement agencies or agencies involved in
administrative adjudication that were compiled in the process of detecting and
investigating statutory or regulatory violations, if the disclosure of the
information would harm the agency by revealing the identity of informants not
otherwise known or by premature release of information to be used in a
prospective law enforcement action or administrative adjudication. Unless
exempted by other provisions of this chapter, public records exempted under
this provision shall be open after enforcement action is completed or a
decision is made to take no action. The exemptions provided by this subdivision
shall not be used by the custodian of the records to delay or impede the
exercise of rights granted by this chapter.
      (9)   Preliminary drafts, notes, or correspondence with private
individuals, other than correspondence which is intended to give notice of
final action of a public agency.
      (10) Preliminary recommendations and preliminary memoranda in which
opinions are expressed or policies formulated or recommended.
      (11) All public records or information the disclosure of which is
prohibited by federal law or regulation.
      (12) Public records or information the disclosure of which is prohibited
or restricted or otherwise made confidential by enactment of the General
Assembly including any information acquired by the Department of Revenue in tax
administration that is prohibited from divulgence or disclosure under state
law.
      (13)   (a)   Public records the disclosure of which would have a
reasonable likelihood of threatening the public safety by exposing a
vulnerability in preventing, protecting against, mitigating, or responding to a
terrorist act and limited to:
            1.   Criticality lists resulting from consequence assessments;
            2.   Vulnerability assessments;
            3.   Antiterrorism protective measures and plans;
            4.   Counterrorism measures and plans;
            5.   Security and response needs assessments;
            6.   Infrastructure records that expose a vulnerability referred to
in this division through the disclosure of the location, configuration, or
security of critical systems, including public utility critical systems. These
critical systems shall include but not be limited to information technology,
communication, electrical, fire suppression, ventilation, water, wastewater,
sewage and gas systems.
            7.   The following records when their disclosure will expose a
vulnerability referred to in this division: detailed drawings, schematics,
maps, or specifications of structural elements, floor plans, and operating,
utility or security systems of any building or facility owned, occupied, leased
or maintained by a public agency; and
            8.   Records when their disclosure will expose a vulnerability
referred to in this division and that describe the exact physical location of
hazardous chemical, radiological, or biological materials.
         (b)   As used in this division, TERRORIST ACT means a criminal act
intended to:
            1.   Intimidate or coerce a public agency or all or part of the
civilian population;
            2.   Disrupt a system identified in division (a)6.; or
            3.   Cause massive destruction to a building or facility owned,
occupied, leased, or maintained by a public agency.
         (c)   On the same day that a public agency denies a request to inspect
a public record for a reason identified in this division, that public agency
shall forward a copy of the written denial of the request, referred to in KRS
61.880(1), to the executive director of the office for Security Coordination
and the Attorney General;
         (d)   Nothing in this division shall affect the obligations of a
public agency with respect to disclosure and availability of public records
under state environmental, health, and safety programs;
         (e)   The exemption established in this division shall not apply when
a member of the Kentucky General Assembly seeks to inspect a public record
identified in this division under the Open Records Law.
      (14)   Public or private records, including books, papers, maps,
photographs, cards, tapes, discs, diskettes, recordings, software, or other
documentation regardless of physical form or characteristics, having historic,
literary, artistic, or commemorative value accepted by the archivist of a
public university, museum, or government depository from a donor or depositor
other than a public agency. This exemption shall apply to the extent that
nondisclosure is requested in writing by the donor or depositor of such
records, but shall not apply to records the disclosure or publication of which
is mandated by another statute or by federal law.
   (B)   No exemption under this section shall be construed to prohibit
disclosure of statistical information not descriptive of any readily
identifiable person. In addition, if any public record contains material which
is not excepted under this section, the city shall separate the excepted and
make the nonexcepted material available for examination, subject to the
possible applicability of §
34.08.
   (C)   The provisions of this section shall in no way prohibit or limit the
exchange of public records or the sharing of information between public
agencies when the exchange is serving a legitimate governmental need or is
necessary in the performance of a legitimate government function.
   (D)   No exemption under this section shall be construed to deny, abridge,
or impede the right of a municipal employee, an applicant for employment, or an
eligible on a register to inspect and copy any record, including preliminary
and other supporting documentation, that relates to him. Such records shall
include, but not be limited to work plans, job performance, demotions,
evaluations, promotions, compensation, classification, reallocation, transfers,
layoffs, disciplinary actions, examination scores, and preliminary and other
supporting documentation. A city employee, applicant, or eligible shall not
have the right to inspect or copy any examination or any documents relating to
ongoing criminal or administrative investigations by any agency.
(KRS 61.878)
§ 34.17 NOTIFICATION OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL.
   The official custodian shall notify the Attorney General of any actions
filed against the city in circuit court regarding the enforcement of the open
records law, KRS 61.870 to 61.884.
CHAPTER 35: TAXATION
Section
   
35.01   County assessment adopted
   
35.02   Levy of tax
   
35.03   Ad valorem taxes on property and franchises; assessment list
   
35.04   Delinquent taxes
§ 35.01 COUNTY ASSESSMENT ADOPTED.
   The city elects to use the most recent annual county assessment for property
situated within the city a basis for its ad valorem tax levy.
('84 Code, § 220.1, § 1) (Ord. 1983-7, effective 5-17-83)
§ 35.02 LEVY OF TAX.
   For the purpose of providing revenue to pay the general operating expenses
for the city, for each year, there is hereby levied a tax at the rate to be
established each year by the City Commission by ordinance, the rate having been
determined in accordance with KRS 132.027.
('84 Code, § 220.1, § 2) (Ord. 1983-7, effective 5-17-83)
§ 35.03 AD VALOREM TAXES ON PROPERTY AND FRANCHISES; ASSESSMENT LIST.
   The taxes, as hereinbefore provided, shall be levied on all real property,
to include land and improvements, and personal property within the city, except
such tangible personal property as has an actual bona fide situs without the
city of persons domiciled or actually residing in the city on the first day of
that tax year, and of all corporations having their chief office or place of
business in the city on that date, and all franchises of same shall be subject
to assessment and taxation by the Constitution or the laws of this
Commonwealth, and the same shall be assessed at its fair cash value, estimated
at the price it would bring at a voluntary sale. Any franchise, granted in
whole or in part by the city and exercised within the city, notwithstanding the
corporation owned or exercising the same, may have its chief office or place of
business elsewhere, shall be subject to the tax. The City Clerk shall, from the
assessment list, make out the tax bills for the tax assessed and levied herein,
on carbonless copies, and shall turn them over to the City Clerk who shall sign
the bills and mail them to the tax payers for collections informing them that
the bills are due on or before September 15 of each tax year. All taxes unpaid
as of November 1 of each tax year shall be deemed delinquent and subject to
interest and penalties as provided for in § 35.04 of this chapter.
('84 Code, § 220.1, § 3) (Ord. 1983-7, effective 5-17-83; Am. Ord. 1986-8,
effective 8-19-86; Am. Ord. 1989-6, effective 9-5-89; Am. Ord. 1995-3,
effective 9-5-95; Am. Ord. 1996-3, effective 9-3-96; Am. Ord. 1997-3, effective
9-2-97; Am. Ord. 1998-13, effective 9-1-98; Am. Ord. 2001-09, effective 9-11-
01; Am. Ord. 2002-07, effective 9-10-02; Am. Ord. 2003-04, effective 9-2-03;
Am. Ord. 2004-06, passed 9-7-04; Am. Ord. 2005-03, passed 9-6-05; Am. Ord.
2006-03, passed 9-5-06, Am. Ord. 2007-05, passed 9-4-07; Am. Ord. 2008-02,
passed 9-2-08; Am. Ord. 2009-06, passed 9-1-09; Am. Ord. 2010-08, passed 9-7-
10; Am. Ord. 2011-04, passed 9-6-11; Am. Ord. 2012-03, passed 9-4-12; Am. Ord.
2013-04, passed 9-3-13; Am. Ord. 2015-05, passed 9-1-15; Am. Ord. 2016-02,
passed 9-6-16; Am. Ord. 2017-02, passed 9-5-17; Am. Ord. 2019-03; passed 9-3-
19)
§ 35.04 DELINQUENT TAXES.
   (A)   All taxes delinquent as stated in § 35.03 above and remaining unpaid
on the November 1 of each tax year shall be subject to a penalty of 10% on the
taxes so delinquent and shall further bear interest at the rate of 12% per
annum from the date due until paid.
   (B)   The city shall have a lien for all delinquent and unpaid taxes, plus
penalty and interest, for five years from the date of assessment on all
property subject to city taxation for the year commencing on January 1 of that
tax year, which lien shall be superior to all liens and encumbrances, and shall
be satisfied and released only upon full payment of the taxes, penalty and
interest.
   (C)   The City Clerk shall settle for all sums collected with the Treasurer
at the first meeting of the Commissioners in each month, and shall immediately
pay the money, so collected, into the city treasury and make an affidavit that
the money so paid is all the taxes or funds that the Clerk has collected or
received during the preceding month.
('84 Code, § 220.1, § 4) (Ord. 1983-7, effective 5-17-83; Am. Ord., effective
1989-6, effective 9-5-89)
CHAPTER 36: DEPARTMENTS, BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
36.01   Establishment of certain departments
   
36.02   Supervision of departments
Finance Department
   
36.10   Duties and responsibilities
Department of Law
   
36.20   Duties and responsibilities
Public Safety and Law Enforcement Authority
   
36.30   Powers and duties
Department of Streets
   
36.40   Duties and responsibilities
Department of Sanitation and Solid Waste
   
36.50   Duties and responsibilities
Department of Parks
   
36.60   Duties and responsibilities
Volunteer Fire Department
   
36.70   Designation of personnel for disaster-emergency services
Department of Public Relations
   
36.80   Duties and responsibilities
Department of Planning and Zoning
   
36.90   Duties and responsibilities
Department of Recreation and Parade
   
36.100   Duties and responsibilities
Department of Grass Cutting
   
36.110   Duties and responsibilities
Department of Insurance
   
36.120   Duties and responsibilities
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 36.01 ESTABLISHMENT OF CERTAIN DEPARTMENTS.
   The following departments of the city are hereby created as follows:
Finance, Law, Water, Streets, Sanitation, and Parks and Recreations.
('84 Code, § 150.1) (Ord. 1982-7, effective 1-12-83)
§ 36.02 SUPERVISION OF DEPARTMENTS.
   Each department of the city shall be supervised by a member of the City
Commission.
('84 Code, § 150.2) (Ord. 1982-7, effective 1-12-83)
FINANCE DEPARTMENT
§ 36.10 DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES.
   The Finance Department shall be responsible for the assessment and
collection of property taxes of the city, maintaining the financial affairs and
accounts of the city and administering the budget of the city. The City
Treasurer, whose duties and responsibilities are set forth in §
31.37, shall serve in the Department of Finance.
('84 Code, § 150.3) (Ord. 1982-7, effective 1-12-83)
DEPARTMENT OF LAW
§ 36.20 DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES.
   The Department of Law shall monitor and report all legal affairs of the
city. The City Attorney, whose duties and responsibilities are set forth in §
31.38, shall serve under the Department of Law.
('84 Code, § 150.4) (Ord. 1982-7, effective 1-12-83)
PUBLIC SAFETY AND LAW ENFORCEMENT AUTHORITY
§ 36.30 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   Public Safety and Law Enforcement Authority shall have the power and
authority to enforce the provisions of this Code of Ordinances, and all other
ordinances adopted by the city, as the City Commission shall set forth from
time to time.
Cross Reference:
   Authorizing agreement between Mayor of Crestview and City of Cold Spring for
police services, See Ord. 1990-13 in
Table II of Table of Special Ordinances
DEPARTMENT OF STREETS
§ 36.40 DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES.
   The Department of Streets shall be responsible for the maintenance of the
condition of the city streets, to include snow removal and drainage of surface
water.
('84 Code, § 150.6) (Ord. 1982-7, effective 1-12-83)
DEPARTMENT OF SANITATION AND SOLID WASTE
§ 36.50 DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES.
   The Department of Sanitation and Solid Waste shall handle all
responsibilities of the city regarding the sanitation sewer system within the
city and all relations with the Sanitation District, also the collection of
solid waste within the city and relations with the designated company.
('84 Code, § 36.50) (Ord. 1982-7, effective 1-12-83)
DEPARTMENT OF PARKS
§ 36.60 DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES.
   The Department of Parks shall be responsible for maintaining all park
property of the city.
('84 Code, § 150.8) (Ord. 1982-7, effective 1-12-83)
VOLUNTEER FIRE DEPARTMENT
§ 36.70 DESIGNATION OF PERSONNEL FOR DISASTER-EMERGENCY SERVICES.
   The Chief of the Cold Spring-Crestview Volunteer Fire Department, or his
delegate, is hereby designated as the person responsible for disaster-emergency
services for the city of Crestview.
(Res. 1986-3, effective - - )
DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC RELATIONS
§ 36.80 DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES.
   The Department of Public Relations shall be responsible for all matters
related to public relations within the city including the production of the
city newsletter.
DEPARTMENT OF PLANNING AND ZONING
§ 36.90 DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES.
   The Department of Planning and Zoning shall be responsible for all matters
related to the enforcement of Planning and Zoning Regulations within the city
and to act as liaison between the Campbell County and Municipal Planning and
Zoning Commission and the city.
DEPARTMENT OF RECREATION AND PARADE
§ 36.100 DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES.
   The Department of Recreation and Parade shall be responsible for the
supervision of all city sponsored recreational programs on city property, the
issuing of use permits for city recreational facilities, and the organization
of the annual Memorial Day Parade.
DEPARTMENT OF GRASS CUTTING
§ 36.110 DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES.
   The Department of Grass Cutting shall be responsible for obtaining bids for
the annual contract for grass cutting of public property within the city and
the supervision of the grass cutting program.
DEPARTMENT OF INSURANCE
§ 36.120 DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES.
   The Department of Insurance shall be responsible for all matters related to
insurance matters of the city government.
CHAPTER 37: COUNTY DISTRICT COURT
Section
37.01 Citations for violations shall be made to district court
§ 37.01 CITATIONS FOR VIOLATIONS SHALL BE MADE TO DISTRICT COURT.
   All citations for violations of the ordinances of the city shall be made to
the Campbell District Court.
('84 Code, § 170.1) (Ord. 1980-11, effective 7-9-80)
CHAPTER 38: CODE OF ETHICAL CONDUCT
Section
   
38.01   Definitions
   
38.02   Standards of conduct
   
38.03   Financial disclosure
   
38.04   Nepotism
   
38.05   City Ethics Commission
 
   
38.99   Penalty
§ 38.01 DEFINITIONS.
   The following definitions shall apply to this chapter.
   BUSINESS ASSOCIATE. Includes the following:
      (1)   A private employer;
      (2)   A general or limited partnership; or a general or limited partner
within the partnership;
      (3)   A corporation that is family owned or in which all shares of stock
are closely held, and the shareholders, owners, and officers of such a
corporation;
      (4)   A corporation, business association, or any other business entity
in which the city government officer or employee serves as a compensated agent
or representative.
   BUSINESS ORGANIZATION. Any corporation, partnership, sole proprietor, firm,
enterprise, franchise, association, organization, self-employed individual,
holding company, joint stock company, receivership, trust, professional service
corporation, or any legal entity through which business is conducted for
profit;
   CANDIDATE. Any individual who seeks nomination or election to a city
municipal office. An individual is a candidate when the individual files a
notification and declaration for a nomination for office with the county clerk
or the secretary of state.
   CITY GOVERNMENT AGENCY. Any board, commission, authority, non-stock
corporation, or other entity formed by the city government or a combination of
local governments.
   CITY GOVERNMENT EMPLOYEE. Any person, whether compensated or not, whether
full-time or part-time, employed by or servicing the city government or city
government agency who is not a city government officer, but shall not mean any
employees of a school district or school board.
   CITY GOVERNMENT OFFICER. Any person, whether compensated or not, whether
full-time or part-time, who is elected to any city government office; or any
person who serves as a member of the governing body of any city government
agency or special taxing or non taxing district, but shall not mean any officer
of a school district or school board.
   MEMBER OF IMMEDIATE FAMILY. The spouse, an unemancipated child residing in
an individual's household, or a person claimed by the individual or
individual's spouse as dependent for tax purposes.
   RULE OF NECESSITY. The city government, agency or district may make or enter
into a contract in which an officer or employee or members of his immediate
family or a business associate has an economic interest if:
      (1)   The nature of the transaction and the nature of the interest is
publicly disclosed on the record prior to the time it is engaged in, and
      (2)   A specific finding is made by the city government, agency, or
district and entered on the official record of the proceedings of the governing
body that not withstanding the conflict it is in the best interest of local
government because of limited supply, price or documented emergency.
(Ord. 1994-3, passed 11-1-94)
§ 38.02 STANDARDS OF CONDUCT.
   (A)   No city government officer or employees or member of his immediate
family shall have an interest in a business organization or engage in any
business, transaction, or professional activity, which is in substantial
conflict with the proper discharge of his duties in the public interest.
   (B)   No city government officer or employee shall use or attempt to use his
position to secure unwarranted privileges or advantages for himself or others.
(Ord. 1994-3, passed 11-1-94) Penalty, see §
38.99
§ 38.03 FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE.
   (A)   Any officer or employee, or any member of his immediate family, of the
city government who shall have any private financial interest, directly or
indirectly, in any contract or matter pending before or within any department
or agency of the city government shall disclose such private interest to the
city council or the local ethics commission.
   (B)   (1)   The following individuals shall be required to file an annual
financial disclosure statement:
         (a)   Elected officers.
         (b)   Candidate for elected office.
      (2)   The financial disclosure statement shall include the following
information:
         (a)   Name of filer.
         (b)   Current business address, business telephone number and home
address of filer.
         (c)   Title of filers public office or office sought.
         (d)   Occupations of filer and spouse.
         (e)   Positions held by the filer and any members of filers immediate
family in any business organization or non-profit entity from which the filer
or any member of the filers immediate family receive compensation in excess of
$5,000 during the preceding calendar year, and the name, address, and telephone
number of the business organization or non-profit entity.
         (f)   Name and address of each source of income of filer and spouse
from within the Commonwealth of Kentucky which exceeds $5,000 during the
preceding year.
         (g)   Name and address of each business organization located within
the Commonwealth in which the filer or any member of the filers immediate
family had an interest of $10,000 at the fair market value.
         (h)   Location of all commercial property within the city, in which
the filer or any member of the filers immediate family had an interest of
$10,000 or more during the past year.
      (3)   Each statement shall be signed and dated by the individual filing
the statement of financial interest. The financial disclosure statements
required by this chapter shall be filed with the city's Ethics Commission.
(Ord. 1994-3, passed 11-1-94; Am. Ord. 1994-4, passed 12-6-94) Penalty, see §
38.99
§ 38.04 NEPOTISM.
   No city government officer or city government employee shall act in his/her
official capacity to hire or cause to be hired any member of his/her immediate
family at an hourly pay rate or with benefits in excess of any other employee
with similar job duties, responsibilities and qualification requirements.
(Ord. 1994-3, passed 11-1-94) Penalty, see §
38.99
§ 38.05 CITY ETHICS COMMISSION.
   (A)   A City Ethics Commission is hereby created which shall have the power
to enforce all provisions of the code of ethics adopted in this chapter.
   (B)   The Commission shall be composed of three members appointed by the
Mayor with the approval of the City Council. Said members must be residents of
the city and at least 21 years of age.
   (C)   Decisions of the Commission regarding violations may be appealed to
the Campbell Circuit Court.
   (D)   The Commission shall receive, hear and investigate complaints
concerning violations of this code of ethics. Any instance in which the
Commission finds that violation of the code of ethics exist, the Commission may
impose the appropriate penalty. In hearing and investigating complaints
concerning violations of this code of ethics, the Commission shall have the
power to subpoena witnesses, administer oaths, take testimony and require other
production of evidence.
(Ord. 1994-3, passed 11-1-94)
§ 38.99 PENALTY.
   Any violation of this chapter shall constitute a class A misdemeanor, and
upon conviction, the Court may void any contract entered into in violation of
this chapter. Additionally, a violation of this chapter shall be grounds for
removal from office or employment with the city in accordance with any
applicable provisions of state law and ordinances, rules or regulations of the
city.
(Ord. 1994-3, passed 11-1-94)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   GARBAGE AND REFUSE
      
51.   SEWERS
      
52.   WATER
CHAPTER 50: GARBAGE AND REFUSE
Section
General Provisions
   
50.01   Placement of trash, garbage or litter receptacles on or adjacent to
public way for collection
   
50.02   Trash containers required
   
50.03   Storage, disposal and screening of trash
Waste Collection Charges
   
50.10   Levy of service fee
   
50.11   Fees due with ad valorem taxes on real estate
   
50.12   Delinquent payment; interest penalty
 
   
50.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 50.01 PLACEMENT OF TRASH, GARBAGE OR LITTER RECEPTACLES ON OR ADJACENT TO
PUBLIC WAY FOR COLLECTION.
   (A)   The purpose of this section is to regulate the times by which
residents of the city may place their garbage or other solid waste out on the
public right-of-way for collection purposes.
   (B)   As used in this section, unless the context clearly indicates
otherwise, GARBAGE CAN or LITTER RECEPTACLE shall mean those containers used to
deposit litter or garbage.
   (C)   All refuse, garbage, or litter to be collected by the city or its
agents shall be placed at the curb or edge of the roadway no earlier than 2:00
p.m. the evening before the day set for collection.
   (D)   All empty garbage cans or litter receptacles are to be removed by the
owners thereof from the street or public right-of-way on the collection day or
within 24 hours after the garbage, litter, or other solid waste was collected.
(Ord. 1990-5, effective - -90) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.02 TRASH CONTAINERS REQUIRED.
   (A)   No owner or occupant of any single-family dwelling; owner or manager
of any multiple- family dwelling or private club; operator, employee of any
commercial or industrial establishment shall fail to provide at all times one
or more trash containers on such property, of a size sufficient to accommodate
the regular accumulation of trash from the property.
   (B)   No owner or occupant of any single-family dwelling; owner or manager
of any multiple- family dwelling or private club; or owner, operator, manager,
or employee of any commercial or industrial establishment shall fail to secure
trash containers on the property so that they are not spilled by animals or
wind or other elements.
(Ord. 2007-11, passed 11-6-07)
§ 50.03 STORAGE, DISPOSAL AND SCREENING OF TRASH.
   (A)   No person shall store trash except in trash containers.
   (B)   No person shall store or locate trash in plastic bags in alleys.
   (C)   No person shall store putrescible waste in plastic bags.
   (D)   No person shall place a trash or recycling container on the sidewalk
or in the city right-of- way in such a manner as to impair or obstruct
pedestrian, bicycling containers placed in a public alley with the written
authorization of the City Commission after written request is made a voted upon
by the Commission, in order to accommodate efficient collection of trash or
recyclable materials.
   (E)   No person shall place a trash or recycling container in a front yard
setback or in a public right-of-way on any day other than the one on which the
collection of trash or recyclable materials is scheduled.
   (F)   No person shall place any refrigerator, freezer, or other unused
appliance in or upon non- secured portions of a property, including, without
limitation, a location awaiting trash or recycling pickup, unless all doors of
such appliance are secured or removed so that children cannot be trapped
within.
   (G)   No owner, manager, or occupant of any single-family dwelling; owner or
manager of any multiple-family dwelling or private club, or owner, manager, or
employee of any commercial or industrial establishment shall fail to prevent
any trash container on a property, or in the public right- of-way adjacent to
the property from overflowing, or from becoming so full that its cover will no
loner fit the container tightly.
   (H)   No person shall store trash in such a manner as to constitute or
create a fire, health, or other safety hazard or harborage for rodents,
insects, or other animals.
   (I)   No owner or occupant of any single-family dwelling, owner, occupant or
manager of any multiple-family dwelling or private club; or owner, operator,
manager, or employee of any commercial or industrial establishment shall fail
to screen from view from the street any trash, trash container, or recyclable
materials stored on the property that such person owns or occupies.
(Ord. 2007-11, passed 11-6-07)
WASTE COLLECTION CHARGES
§ 50.10 LEVY OF SERVICE FEE.
   For the purpose of providing revenue to pay the waste collection charges
with the city, for each year, there is hereby levied a service fee at the rate
to be determined each year, to be paid by each and every property owner in the
city. No garbage collection service other than that provided by the garbage
collection service of the city, may be utilized by any property owner in the
city.
('84 Code, § 220.2, § 1) (Ord. 1983-8, effective 5-17-83; Am. Ord. 1992-7,
effective 9-1-92; Am. Ord. 1993-5, effective 9-7-93; Am. Ord. 1994-6, effective
12-6-94; Am. Ord. 1995-4, effective 9-5-95; Am. Ord. 1996-4, effective 9-3-96;
Am. Ord. 1997-4, effective 9-2-97; Am. Ord. 1999-12, effective 9-7-99; Am. Ord.
2002-08, effective 9-10-02; Am. Ord. 2003-05, effective 9-2-03; Am. Ord. 2004-
07, passed 9-7-04; Am. Ord. 2005-04, passed 9-6-05; Am. Ord. 2006-04, passed 9-
5-06; Am. Ord. 2007-07, passed 9-18-07; Am. Ord. 2008-03, passed 9-2-08; Am.
Ord. 2009-07, passed 9-1-09; Am. Ord. 2010-09, passed 9-7-10; Am. Ord. 2011-05,
passed 9-6-11; Am. Ord. 2012-04, passed 9-4-12; Am. Ord. 2013-05, passed 9-3-
13; Am. Ord. 2015-06, passed 10-3-15; Am. Ord. 2016-03, passed 9-6-16; Am. Ord.
2017-03, passed 9-5-17; Am. Ord. 2018-06, passed 9-18-18; Am. Ord. 2019-02,
passed 9-3-2019)
§ 50.11 FEES DUE WITH AD VALOREM TAXES ON REAL ESTATE.
   This waste collection fee shall be due and payable with the ad valorem taxes
imposed by the city on real estate within the city with the respect to which
the service charge is imposed. A bill for the waste collection fee shall be
included with the ad valorem tax bill and mailed to each property owner within
the city along with the ad valorem tax bill. This fee shall also bear the same
penalties and interest as the ad valorem taxes.
('84 Code, § 220.2, § 2) (Ord. 1983-8, effective 5-17-83; Am. Ord. 1999-12,
effective 9-7-99)
§ 50.12 DELINQUENT PAYMENT; INTEREST PENALTY.
   Any waste collection fee remaining unpaid as of a date to be established
annually by ordinance of each tax year shall be deemed delinquent and be
subject to interest at the rate of 12% per annum and penalties at the rate of
10% on said amount and calculated from the due date of the tax year until paid
in full. The city shall have a lien for all delinquent and unpaid taxes, plus
penalty and interest, for seven years from the date of assessment on all
property subject to city taxation for the years commencing January 1 of that
tax year, which lien shall be superior to all liens and encumbrances, and shall
be satisfied and released only upon full payment of the taxes, penalty and
interest.
('84 Code, § 220.2, § 3) (Ord. 1983-8, effective 5-17-83; Am. Ord. 1989-7,
effective 9-5-89; Am. Ord. 1999-12, effective 9-7-99)
§ 50.99 PENALTY.
   Any person violating the provisions of §
50.01 shall be guilty of a violation and shall be punished by a fine of not
less than $50 and not more than $100. Each day an offense is not corrected
shall be deemed a separate offense.
(Ord. 1990-5, effective - -90)
CHAPTER 51: SEWERS
Section
General Provisions
   
51.01   Surface water draining into sanitary sewers prohibited
   
51.02   Interfering with storm and sewer system prohibited
Rates and Charges
   
51.15   Sewer rates and charges
   
51.16   Collection fees
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 51.01 SURFACE WATER DRAINING INTO SANITARY SEWERS PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person who owns or occupies real estate within
the city, to cause or permit surface water to drain into the sanitary sewers
within the city.
('84 Code, § 620.3, § 1) (Ord. 50, effective 4-11-58) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.02 INTERFERING WITH STORM AND SEWER SYSTEM PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person shall, without lawful authority, deposit, dump, throw,
stick, or place upon or in the storm and/or sanitary sewer or sewer system,
within the city, any waste, refuge matter or material or any article of any
such nature or kind which may interfere with the use thereof for sewer or
sewage purposes for the city, and with intent to interfere with the system or
clog same or with the disregard for the use of the system.
   (B)   In addition to the penalty provided in §
10.99, any person violating the provisions of this section may, upon conviction
thereof, be required to pay the costs of repair, replace or remove same from
the sewage system.
('84 Code, § 620.4) (Ord. 102, effective 5-3-68) Penalty, see §
10.99
RATES AND CHARGES
§ 51.15 SEWER RATES AND CHARGES.
   In order to pay the charge for treatment of sewage by the Sanitation
District No. 1 of Campbell and Kenton Counties for the residents of the city,
and in order to support the construction, operation, and maintenance of new
sewage facilities for the city, the city establishes the following rate
schedule for sewage charges:
      Sanitation District No. 1.
 
   Sanitation District No. 1
   Size (Cubic Fee   Charge for Treatment
                        (quarterly)
800 minimum          $9.60
801 - 5,000          1.14 per 100 cubic feet
5,001 - 25,000       1.02 per 100 cubic feet
25,001 - 100,000     0.87 per 100 cubic feet
Over 100,000         0.79 per 100 cubic feet
 
(Am. Ord. 1997-1, effective 5-6-97)
§ 51.16 COLLECTION FEES.
   (A)   The city does hereby establish a fee of $.30 per quarter to be added
to the quarterly sanitation bill to cover the cost of billing for sanitation
charges.
   (B)   Sanitation District No. 1 is hereby authorized by the city to bill and
collect sanitation charges on a quarterly basis for sanitation services
provided to residents of the city.
   (C)   The Mayor of the city is hereby authorized to enter into a contract
with Sanitation District No. 1 for the purpose of billing and collection of all
sanitation charges for the residents of the city.
('84 Code, § 620.2) (Ord. 1983-2, effective 2-9-83)
CHAPTER 52: WATER
Section
   
52.01   Water rates
   
52.02   Water meter deposit
§ 52.01 WATER RATES.
   Water rates shall be in the amount as established from time to time by
ordinance of City Commission, as these ordinances are more particularly listed
in Table V of Table of Special Ordinances.
§ 52.02 WATER METER DEPOSIT.
   Upon the termination of a consumer's contract with the city for the purchase
of water, the sum of monies which the consumer has deposited with the city upon
the installation of water meters shall be returned to the consumer, less any
arrearage and penalties due the city upon the consumer's water bill.
(Ord. 49, effective 3-13-58)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
71.   TRAFFIC RULES
      
72.   PARKING REGULATIONS
      
73.   BICYCLES AND MOTORCYCLES
      
74.   TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
      
75.   PARKING SCHEDULES
CHAPTER 70: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
70.01   Definitions
   
70.02   Required obedience to traffic directions
   
70.03   Powers and duties of Public Safety and Law Enforcement Authority
   
70.04   Authority for enforcement
   
70.05   Temporary regulations
Traffic-Control Devices
   
70.15   Establishment and maintenance of traffic-control devices
   
70.16   Obedience to signals
   
70.17   Interference with signals
   
70.18   Unauthorized signals or markings
   
70.19   Device to be legible and in proper position
   
70.20   Temporary disregard of devices by Public Safety and Law Enforcement
Authority officer
 
   
70.99   General penalty
§ 70.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this title the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLES. Vehicles of the Public Safety and Law
Enforcement Authority, vehicles of the Commonwealth Attorney's office when on
official business, and ambulances on an authorized emergency run.
   BOULEVARD. Any legally designated street at which cross traffic is required
to stop before entering or crossing such boulevard.
   BUSINESS DISTRICT. Any portion of any street between two consecutive
intersections in which 50% or more of the frontage on either side of the street
is used for business purposes.
   CROSSWALK. That portion of the roadway included within the extension of the
sidewalk across any intersection, and such other portions of the roadway
between two intersections, as may be legally designated as crossing places and
marked by stanchions, paint lines, or otherwise.
   CURB. The boundary of that portion of the street used for vehicles whether
marked by curbstones or not.
   INTERSECTION. That part of the public way embraced within the extensions of
the street lines of  two or more streets which join at an angle whether or not
one such street crosses the other.
   OFFICIAL TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES. All signs, signals, warnings, directions,
markings, and devices placed or erected or maintained by authority of the City
Commission.
   ONE-WAY STREET. A street on which vehicles are permitted to move in one
direction only.
   OPERATOR. Every person who is in actual physical control of the guidance,
starting, and stopping of a vehicle.
   PARK. When applied to vehicles, to leave a vehicle standing, whether
occupied or not, for a period of time longer than is necessary to receive or
discharge passengers or property.
   PEDESTRIAN. Any person afoot.
   PLAY STREET. Any street or portion thereof so designated by the City
Commission and reserved as a play area for children, from which all traffic is
barred, except vehicles to and from abutting properties.
   PUBLIC SAFETY AND LAW ENFORCEMENT AUTHORITY. The Public Safety and Law
Enforcement Authority or other persons or agency authorized to perform the
duties of §
70.03 or any other acts necessary to implement and enforce this traffic code.
   PUBLIC WAY. The entire width between property lines of every way, dedicated
passway, or street set aside for public travel, except bridle paths and foot
paths.
   REVERSE TURN. To turn a vehicle on any street in such a manner as to proceed
in the opposite direction.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY. The privilege of the immediate and preferential use of the
street.
   ROADWAY. That portion of any street, improved, designated, or ordinarily
used for vehicular travel.
   SIDEWALK. That portion of the street between the curb and the property line
intended for the use of pedestrians.
   STOPPING. As applied to vehicles, to stop a vehicle longer than is actually
necessary to receive or discharge passengers.
   STREET. Every public way, including alleys.
   TRAFFIC. Pedestrians, ridden or herded animals, vehicles, buses, and other
conveyances, individually or collectively, while using any street for the
purpose of travel.
   VEHICLE. Every device in, on, or by which any person or property is or may
be transported or drawn on any street except devices moved by human power or
used exclusively on stationary rails or tracks.
§ 70.02 REQUIRED OBEDIENCE TO TRAFFIC DIRECTIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to fail or refuse to comply with
any lawful order, signal, or direction given by a uniformed Public Safety and
Law Enforcement Authority officer, or to fail or refuse to comply with any of
the traffic regulations of this traffic code.
   (B)   The provisions of this traffic code shall apply to the driver of any
vehicle owned or used in the service of the United States government, this
state, county, or city, and it shall be unlawful for any such driver to violate
any of the provisions of this traffic code, except as otherwise permitted in
this traffic code or by state statute.
   (C)   Every person propelling any pushcart or riding a bicycle or an animal
on any roadway, and every person driving any animal on any roadway, and every
person driving any animal-drawn vehicle shall be subject to the provisions of
this traffic code applicable to the driver of any vehicle, except those
provisions of this traffic code which by their very nature can have no
application.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.03 POWERS AND DUTIES OF PUBLIC SAFETY AND LAW ENFORCEMENT AUTHORITY.
   It shall be the duty of the Public Safety and Law Enforcement Authority to
direct all traffic in conformance with this traffic code and to enforce the
traffic regulations as set forth in this traffic code, to make arrest for
traffic violations, to investigate accidents, and to cooperate with other
officers of the city in the administration of the traffic laws, and in
developing ways and means to improve traffic conditions.
§ 70.04 AUTHORITY FOR ENFORCEMENT.
   Authority to direct and enforce all traffic regulations of this city in
accordance with the provisions of this traffic code and to make arrests for
traffic violations is given to the Public Safety and Law Enforcement Authority,
and, except in case of emergency, it shall be unlawful for any other person to
direct or attempt to direct traffic by voice, hand, whistle, or any other
signal.
Penalty, see §
70.99
Cross Reference:
   Authorizing Mayor to execute an interlocal agreement with the City of Cold
Spring for police services, see
TSO Table II, Ord. No. 1990-13
§ 70.05 TEMPORARY REGULATIONS.
   When required for the convenience and safety of the public and to alleviate
unusual traffic problems, the City Commission or any authorized city official
shall, at his discretion, have authority to impose such traffic regulations as
he may deem necessary for temporary periods not to exceed two weeks. If these
temporary regulations are necessary for a period longer than two weeks, the
City Clerk shall be notified in writing of the extended order.
TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES
§ 70.15 ESTABLISHMENT AND MAINTENANCE OF TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES.
   The city shall establish and maintain all official traffic-control devices
necessary within the city. All traffic-control devices, including signs, shall
be employed to indicate one particular warning or regulation, shall be uniform,
and as far as possible shall be placed uniformly. All traffic-control devices
and signs shall conform to required state specifications.
§ 70.16 OBEDIENCE TO SIGNALS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the driver of any vehicle to disobey the
signal of any official traffic- control device placed in accordance with the
provisions of this traffic code or of a traffic barrier or sign erected by any
of the public departments or public utilities of the city, or any electric
signal, gate, or watchman at railroad crossings, unless otherwise directed by a
Public Safety and Law Enforcement Authority officer. However, the type and the
right to or necessity for such barrier or sign must be approved by the city.
   (B)   Such sign, signal, marking, or barrier shall have the same authority
as the personal direction of a Public Safety and Law Enforcement Authority
officer.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.17 INTERFERENCE WITH SIGNALS.
   No person shall without authority attempt to or in fact alter, deface,
injure, knock down, or remove any official control device or any railroad sign
or signal, or any inscription, shield, or insignia thereon, or any part
thereof.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.18 UNAUTHORIZED SIGNALS OR MARKINGS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, maintain, or display on
or in view of any street any unauthorized sign, signal, marking, or device
which purports to be or is an imitation of or resembles an official traffic
device or railroad sign or signal which attempts or purports to direct the
movement of traffic, or which conceals or hides from view or interferes with
the effectiveness of any official control device or any railroad sign or
signal. No person shall place or maintain, nor shall any public authority
permit on any street, any traffic sign or signal bearing any commercial
advertising. Nothing in this section shall be construed as restricting any
public department or public utility of the city in any emergency or temporarily
from marking or erecting any traffic barrier or sign whose placing has been
approved by the city.
   (B)   Every such prohibited sign, signal, or marking is declared to be a
public nuisance and the city is empowered forthwith to remove it or cause it to
be removed.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.19 DEVICE TO BE LEGIBLE AND IN PROPER POSITION.
   No provision of this traffic code for which signs or any other traffic-
control device is required shall be enforceable against an alleged violator if
at the time and place of the alleged violation the required device was not in
proper position and sufficiently legible to be seen by an ordinarily observant
person.
§ 70.20 TEMPORARY DISREGARD OF DEVICES BY PUBLIC SAFETY AND LAW ENFORCEMENT
AUTHORITY OFFICERS.
   In an emergency any Public Safety and Law Enforcement Authority officer may
at his discretion disregard traffic-control lights or signals or established
regulations in order to facilitate the movement of traffic.
§ 70.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any provision of this traffic code where no other penalty
is specifically provided shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be fined
not less than $20 nor more than $500.
CHAPTER 71: TRAFFIC RULES
Section
Operation Generally
   
71.01   Obstructing traffic
   
71.02   Reverse or U turns
   
71.03   Backing vehicles
   
71.04   Vehicles crossing sidewalks
   
71.05   Speed limits
   
71.06   Stop intersections
Accidents
   
71.15   Duty of operator
   
71.16   Accident report
Prohibitions
   
71.25   Operator of vehicle to drive carefully
   
71.26   Right-of-way of emergency vehicles; following emergency vehicles;
driving over fire hose
   
71.27   Smoke emission or other nuisance
Parades
   
71.40   Definitions
   
71.41   Permit required
   
71.42   Application for permit
   
71.43   Standards for issuance of permit
   
71.44   Notice of rejection of permit
   
71.45   Appeal procedure when permit denied
   
71.46   Alternative permit
   
71.47   Notice to city and other officials when permit issued
   
71.48   Contents of permit
   
71.49   Duties of permittee
   
71.50   Public conduct during parades
   
71.51   Revocation of permit
 
   
71.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Riding of horses or driving horse-drawn vehicles through city prohibited,
see §
90.07
OPERATION GENERALLY
§ 71.01 OBSTRUCTING TRAFFIC.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to operate any vehicle or permit it to remain
standing in any street in such manner as to create an obstruction thereof.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to enter any
intersection or crosswalk unless there is sufficient space on the other side of
the intersection or crosswalk to accommodate the vehicle without obstructing
the passage of other vehicles or pedestrians, notwithstanding the indication of
any traffic-control signal which may be located at the intersection or
crosswalk.
   (C)   Any intersection deemed by the city to be of special or critical
importance to the movement of traffic shall be marked in such distinctive
manner as to indicate such importance. Should the operator of any vehicle enter
any intersection so marked when there is insufficient room on the other side of
the intersection to accommodate the vehicle, the indication of any traffic-
control signal notwithstanding, he shall be deemed to have violated this
division rather than division (B) above.
Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.02 REVERSE OR U TURNS.
   The operator of any vehicle shall not turn such vehicle so as to proceed in
the opposite direction unless such movement can be made in safety without
interfering with other traffic.
(KRS 189.330(8)) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.03 BACKING VEHICLES.
   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to back the vehicle at
any intersection for the purpose of executing a turning movement. A vehicle
from any parking position shall be backed by the operator in such manner as to
proceed on the same side of the roadway in the lawful direction of travel.
Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.04 VEHICLES CROSSING SIDEWALKS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to drive within
any sidewalk space except at a permanent or temporary driveway or by special
permit from the City Commission or any authorized city official.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to drive the
vehicle out of any alley, driveway, building, or lot and across a sidewalk, or
its extension across the alley, unless the vehicle has been brought to a
complete stop immediately prior to crossing the sidewalk or its extension. On
entering the roadway from the alley, driveway, or building the operator shall
yield the right-of-way to all vehicles approaching on the roadway. The operator
of any vehicle intending to cross a sidewalk and turn into an alley from the
roadway may do so at low speed and with caution.
Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.05 SPEED LIMITS.
   (A)   The speed limit for all vehicles of any kind or nature shall be 20
miles per hour within the boundaries of the city unless otherwise marked, and
it shall be unlawful for any person to operate a vehicle upon the streets of
the city at a rate of speed in excess of 20 miles per hour. Speed limit signs
shall be erected at the street entrances to the municipal boundaries of the
city.
('84 Code, § 510.1) (Ord. 1981-11, effective 1-1-82)
   (B)   The speed limit of Toner Lane is 15 miles per hour.
Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.06 STOP INTERSECTIONS.
   (A)   The City Commission shall determine and designate intersections where
a particular hazard exists and determine whether vehicles shall stop at one or
more entrances at any such stop, intersection or straight-aways and shall then
recommend to the City Commission that an ordinance be passed authorizing the
erection of a stop sign or signs at every such place where a stop is required.
('84 Code, § 510.2, § 2)
   (B)   Every sign erected pursuant to this section shall bear the word “STOP”
in letters not less than six inches in height. Every stop sign shall be located
as near as practicable, at the nearest point to where the streets intersect in
cases of stop signs at intersections, provided however, that a stop sign shall
not be erected nearer than three feet from the curb line in any street. ('84
Code, § 510.2, § 3)
   (C)   When stop signs are erected as herein provided, every driver of a
vehicle shall stop the vehicle at such sign or at a clearly marked stop sign
before entering the intersection or proceeding further on a straight-away
except when directed to proceed by a Public Safety and Law Enforcement
Authority officer. ('84 Code, § 510.2, § 4)
(Ord. 1981-11, effective 1-1-82) Penalty, see §
71.99
Cross-reference:
   Stop intersections, see
Ch. 74, Sched. II
ACCIDENTS
§ 71.15 DUTY OF OPERATOR.
   It shall be the duty of the owner of, operator of, or passenger in any motor
vehicle which is involved in an accident in which any person is injured or
property damaged to stop immediately and ascertain the extent of the injury or
damage and render such assistance as may be needed.
Penalty, see §
71.99
Statutory reference:
   Duty in case of accident, see KRS 189.580
§ 71.16 ACCIDENT REPORT.
   The operator, owner, or passenger involved in an accident resulting in the
injury or death of any person, or an accident in which property is damaged,
shall immediately report the accident or property damage to the Public Safety
and Law Enforcement Authority.
Penalty, see §
71.99
PROHIBITIONS
§ 71.25 OPERATOR OF VEHICLE TO DRIVE CAREFULLY.
   (A)   The operator of any vehicle upon a highway shall operate the vehicle
in a careful manner, with regard for the safety and convenience of pedestrians
and other vehicles upon the highway.
   (B)   No person shall willfully operate any vehicle on any highway in such a
manner as to injure the highway.
(KRS 189.290) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.26 RIGHT-OF-WAY OF EMERGENCY VEHICLES; FOLLOWING EMERGENCY VEHICLES;
DRIVING OVER FIRE HOSE.
   (A)   Upon the approach of an emergency vehicle equipped with, and
operating, one or more flashing, rotating, or oscillating red or blue lights
visible under normal conditions from a distance of 500 feet to the front of
such vehicle; or when the driver is giving audible signal by siren, exhaust
whistle, or bell, the driver of every other vehicle shall yield the right-of-
way, immediately drive to a position parallel to, and as close as possible to,
the edge or curb of the highway clear of any intersection, and stop and remain
in such position until the emergency vehicle has passed, except when otherwise
directed by a Public Safety and Law Enforcement Authority officer or
firefighter.
   (B)   Upon the approach of any emergency vehicle operated in conformity with
the provisions of division (A) above, the operator of every vehicle shall
immediately stop clear of any intersection and shall keep such position until
the emergency vehicle has passed, unless directed otherwise by a Public Safety
and Law Enforcement Authority officer or firefighter.
   (C)   No operator of any vehicle, unless he or she is on official business,
shall follow any emergency vehicle being operated in conformity with the
provisions of division (A) above closer than 500 feet, nor shall he or she
drive into, park the vehicle into, or park the vehicle within the block where
the vehicle has stopped in answer to an emergency call or alarm, unless he or
she is directed otherwise by a Public Safety and Law Enforcement Authority
officer or firefighter.
   (D)   No vehicle, train, or other equipment shall be driven over any
unprotected hose of a fire department when the hose is laid down on any street,
private driveway, or track for use at any fire or fire alarm unless the fire
department official in command consents that the hose be driven over.
   (E)   Upon approaching a stationary emergency vehicle or public safety
vehicle, when the emergency vehicle or public safety vehicle is giving a signal
by displaying alternately flashing yellow, red, red and white, red and blue, or
blue lights, a person who drives an approaching vehicle shall, while proceeding
with due caution:
      (1)   Yield the right-of-way by moving to a lane not adjacent to that of
the authorized emergency vehicle, if:
         (a)   The person is driving on a highway having at least four lanes
with not fewer than two lanes proceeding in the same direction as the
approaching vehicle; and
         (b)   If it is possible to make the lane change with due regard to
safety and traffic conditions; or
      (2)   Reduce the speed of the vehicle, maintaining a safe speed to road
conditions, if changing lanes would be impossible or unsafe.
   (F)   This section does not operate to relieve the person who drives an
emergency vehicle from the duty to operate the vehicle with due regard for the
safety of all persons using the highway.
(KRS 189.930) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.27 SMOKE EMISSION OR OTHER NUISANCE.
   Every vehicle when on a highway shall be so equipped as to make a minimum of
noise, smoke, or other nuisance, to protect the rights of other traffic, and to
promote the public safety.
(KRS 189.020) Penalty, see §
71.99
PARADES
§ 71.40 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PARADE. Any parade, march, ceremony, show, exhibition, pageant, or
procession of any kind, or any similar display in or on any street, sidewalk,
park, or other public place in the city.
   PARADE PERMIT. A permit required by this subchapter.
§ 71.41 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   No person or persons shall engage in, participate in, aid, form, or
start any parade unless a parade permit has been obtained from the City
Commission or any authorized city official.
   (B)   This subchapter shall not apply to:
      (1)   Funeral processions; or
      (2)   A governmental agency acting within the scope of its functions.
Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.42 APPLICATION FOR PERMIT.
   A person seeking issuance of a parade permit shall file an application with
the City Commission or any authorized city official on forms provided by the
Commissioner or such officer.
   (A)   Filing period. The application for a parade permit shall be filed not
less than five days or not more than 60 days before the date on which it is
proposed to conduct the parade.
   (B)   The application for a parade permit shall set forth the following
information:
      (1)      The name, address, and telephone number of the person seeking to
conduct the parade;
      (2)      If the parade is proposed to be conducted for, on behalf of, or
by an organization, the name, address, and telephone number of the headquarters
of the organization and of the authorized and responsible heads of the
organization;
      (3)      The name, address, and telephone number of the person who will
be the parade chairman and who will be responsible for its conduct;
      (4)      The date when the parade is to be conducted;
      (5)      The route to be traveled, the starting point, and the
termination point;
      (6)      The approximate number of persons, animals, and vehicles which
will constitute the parade, the type of animals, if any, and the description of
the vehicles;
      (7)      The hours when the parade will start and terminate;
      (8)      A statement as to whether the parade will occupy all or only a
portion of the width of the streets, sidewalk, park, or other public place
proposed to be traversed;
      (9)      The location by street of any assembly area for the parade;
      (10)   The time at which units of the parade will begin to assemble at
any such assembly area or areas;
      (11)   The interval of space to be maintained between units of the
parade;
      (12)   If the parade is designed to be held by, and on behalf of or for,
any person other than the applicant, the applicant for the permit shall file a
communication in writing from the person authorizing the applicant to apply for
the permit on his behalf;
      (13)   Any additional information reasonably necessary to a fair
determination as to whether a permit should issue.
   (C)   There shall be paid at the time of filing an application for a parade
permit a fee in an amount as established by the City Commission.
Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.43 STANDARDS FOR ISSUANCE OF PERMIT.
   The City Commission or any authorized city official shall issue a permit
when, from a consideration of the application and from other information
obtained, he finds that:
   (A)   The conduct of the parade will not substantially interrupt the safe
and orderly movement of other traffic contiguous to its route;
   (B)   The conduct of the parade will not require the diversion of so great a
number of Public Safety and Law Enforcement Authority officers of the city to
properly police the line of movement and the areas contiguous thereto as to
prevent normal police protection to the city;
   (C)   The conduct of the parade will not require the diversion of so great a
number of ambulances as to prevent normal ambulance service to portions of the
city other than that to be occupied by the proposed line of march and areas
contiguous thereto;
   (D)   The concentration of persons, animals, and vehicles at assembly points
of the parade will not unduly interfere with proper fire and police protection
of, or ambulance service to, areas contiguous to the assembly areas;
   (E)   The conduct of the parade will not interfere with the movement of
firefighting equipment enroute to a fire;
   (F)   The parade is scheduled to move from its point of origin to its point
of termination expeditiously and without unreasonable delays enroute.
Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.44 NOTICE OF REJECTION OF PERMIT.
   The City Commission or any authorized city official shall act on the
application for a parade permit within three days, Saturdays, Sundays, and
holidays excepted, after filing thereof. If the City Commission or authorized
city official disapproves the application, it shall mail to the applicant
within the three days, Saturdays, Sundays, and holidays excepted, after the
date on which the application was filed, a notice of its action stating the
reasons for denial of the permit.
§ 71.45 APPEAL PROCEDURE WHEN PERMIT DENIED.
   Any person aggrieved shall have the right to appeal the denial of a parade
permit to the City Commission. The appeal shall be taken within 30 days after
notice of denial. The City Commission shall act on the appeal within 30 days
after its receipt.
§ 71.46 ALTERNATIVE PERMIT.
   The City Commission or any authorized city official, in denying an
application for a parade permit, shall be empowered to authorize the conduct of
the parade on a date, at a time, or over a route different than that named by
the applicant. An applicant desiring to accept an alternate permit shall file a
written notice of his acceptance. An alternate parade permit shall conform to
the requirements of, and shall have the effect of, a parade permit under this
subchapter.
§ 71.47 NOTICE TO CITY AND OTHER OFFICIALS WHEN PERMIT ISSUED.
   Immediately on the issuance of a parade permit, a copy thereof shall be sent
to the following persons:
   (A)   The City Commission;
   (B)   The City Attorney;
   (C)   The Public Safety and Law Enforcement Authority and the Fire Chief;
   (D)   The general manager or responsible head of each public utility, the
regular routes of whose vehicles will be affected by the route of the proposed
parade.
§ 71.48 CONTENTS OF PERMIT.
   Each parade permit shall state the following information:
   (A)   Starting time;
   (B)   Minimum speed;
   (C)   Maximum speed;
   (D)   Maximum interval of space to be maintained between the units of the
parade;
   (E)   The portions of the street, sidewalk, park, or other public place to
be traversed that may be occupied by the parade;
   (F)   The maximum length of the parade in miles or fractions thereof;
   (G)   Such other information as is reasonably necessary to the enforcement
of this subchapter.
Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.49 DUTIES OF PERMITTEE.
   A permittee hereunder shall comply with all permit directions and conditions
and with all applicable laws and ordinances. The parade chairman or other
person heading or leading the activity shall carry the parade permit on his
person during the conduct of the parade.
Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.50 PUBLIC CONDUCT DURING PARADES.
   (A)   Interference. No person shall unreasonably hamper, obstruct, impede,
or interfere with any parade or parade assembly or with any person, vehicle, or
animal participating or used in a parade.
   (B)   Driving through parades. No driver of a vehicle except a police car or
other emergency vehicle shall drive between the vehicles or persons comprising
a parade when such vehicles or persons are in motion and are conspicuously
designated as a parade.
Penalty, see §
71.99
Cross-reference:
   Parking on parade routes, see §
72.07
§ 71.51 REVOCATION OF PERMIT.
   The city shall have the authority to revoke a parade permit issued hereunder
on application of the standards for issuance as herein set forth.
§ 71.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter for which no other
penalty is specifically provided shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be
fined not less than $20 nor more than $500.
   (B)   Any person, firm, or corporation which violates any provision of §
71.05 shall be subject to a fine in accordance with the schedule of fines
established under KRS 189.394.
   (C)   Any person who violates §
71.26 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be fined not less than $60 nor
more than $500, or be imprisoned in the county jail for not more than 30 days,
or both. (KRS 189.993(8))
CHAPTER 72: PARKING REGULATIONS
Section
Parking Generally
   
72.01   Obstructional parking; double parking
   
72.02   Manner of parking
   
72.03   Limitations of stopping and parking
   
72.04   Restrictions and prohibitions on designated streets
   
72.05   Parking restricted to allow street cleaning
   
72.06   Parking in excess of certain number of hours prohibited; towing
authorized
   
72.07   Parking on parade route
   
72.08   Parking on off-street facility
   
72.09   Owner responsibility
   
72.10   Parking in parks
   
72.11   Parking with handicapped permits
   
72.12   Truck parking; deliveries
   
72.13   Authority of City Commission to designate “no parking” zones
   
72.14   Emergency parking restrictions
Impounding
   
72.20   Impoundment of vehicles authorized; redemption
   
72.21   Required notice to owner
   
72.22   Sale of vehicle
Snow Emergency
   
72.35   Announcement of snow emergency
   
72.36   Termination of emergency
   
72.37   Snow emergency routes
Administration and Enforcement
   
72.50   Payment of fines for parking violations
   
72.99   Penalty
Statutory reference:
   Revenues from fees, fines, and forfeitures related to parking, see KRS
65.120
PARKING GENERALLY
§ 72.01 OBSTRUCTIONAL PARKING; DOUBLE PARKING.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to leave any vehicle or any other
thing that may be a nuisance, obstruction, or hindrance in or on any street,
alley, or sidewalk within the city either during the day or night.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to stop or park any vehicle on the
roadway side of any other vehicle stopped or parked at the edge or curb of a
street.
Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.02 MANNER OF PARKING.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to stop or park
the vehicle on the side of each street as designated in Ch. 75, Parking
Schedules.
   (B)   Where parking is permitted on the streets of the city, the vehicles
must be parked along and within 12 inches of the curbline, and the vehicle
shall be parked in a manner parallel to the curbline. ('84 Code, § 510.3, § 2)
(Ord. 1981-11, effective 1-1-82)
   (C)   No vehicle shall be backed to the curb on any street, except that
wagons and trucks may do so when loading and unloading provided that such
loading and unloading and delivery of property and material shall not consume
more than 30 minutes. Such backing of trucks or wagons is prohibited at all
times and on all streets in the city where any truck or wagon so backed
interferes with the use of the roadway of moving vehicles or occupies road
space within ten feet of the center line of the street.
   (D)   The city may establish diagonal parking at certain places, requiring
the parking of vehicles at a certain angle to the curb and within a certain
portion of the roadway adjacent thereto. However, diagonal parking shall not be
established where the roadway space required therefor would be within ten feet
of the center line of any street. Such diagonal parking places shall be
designated by suitable signs, and shall indicate by markings on the pavement
the required angle and the width of the roadway space within which such vehicle
shall park.
   (E)   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to so park such
vehicle that any part thereof shall extend beyond the lines marking the side or
the rear of the space assigned for one vehicle.
Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.03 LIMITATIONS OF STOPPING AND PARKING.
   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to stop or park such
vehicle except in a case of real emergency or in compliance with the provisions
of this traffic code or when directed by a Public Safety and Law Enforcement
Authority or traffic sign or signal at any time in the following places:
   (A)   On the mainly-traveled portion of any roadway or on any other place in
the roadway where vehicles stand in any manner other than as specified in §
72.02.
   (B)   On a sidewalk.
   (C)   In front of sidewalk ramps provided for persons with disabilities.
   (D)   In front of a public or private driveway.
   (E)   Within an intersection or crosswalk.
   (F)   At any place where official signs prohibit stopping or parking. This
does not apply to Public Safety and Law Enforcement Authority when operating
properly identified vehicles during the performance of their official duties.
   (G)   Within 30 feet upon the approach to any flashing beacon, stop sign, or
traffic-control signal located at the side of a roadway.
   (H)   On any controlled access highway.
   (I)   Within a highway tunnel.
   (J)   Within fifteen (15) feet of a fire hydrant.
   (K)   In an area between the roadways of a divided highway.
(KRS 189.450(5))
   (L)   On the streets of the city in such a manner as to block the driveway
of a resident of the city or to park within six feet of a fire hydrant. ('84
Code, § 510.3, § 5) (Ord. 1981-11, effective 1-1-82)
   (M)   On any unpaved or unsurfaced area within the city except for an
emergency situation, which situation shall be limited to one hour, or to park
at any time on the memorial lot. ('84 Code, § 510.3, § 8) (Ord. 1981-11,
effective 1-1-82)
   (N)   No person shall move a vehicle not lawfully under his control into any
such prohibited area.
(KRS 189.450(6))
Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.04 RESTRICTIONS AND PROHIBITIONS ON DESIGNATED STREETS.
   (A)   The provisions of this section prohibiting the stopping and parking of
a vehicle shall apply at all times or at those times herein specified or as
indicated on official signs except when it is necessary to stop a vehicle to
avoid conflict with other traffic or in compliance with the directions of a
Public Safety and Law Enforcement Authority or official traffic-control
devices.
   (B)   The provisions of this section imposing a time limit on parking shall
not relieve any person from his duty to observe other and more restrictive
provisions prohibiting or limiting the stopping or parking of vehicles in
specific places or at specified times.
   (C)   When signs are erected in compliance with the provisions of division
(F) below giving notice thereof, no person shall park a vehicle at any time on
any street so marked by official signs.
   (D)   When a curb has been painted in compliance with the provisions of
division (F) below, no person shall park a vehicle at any time at or adjacent
to any curb so marked.
   (E)   When signs are erected in compliance with the provisions of division
(F) below, in each block giving notice thereof, no person shall park a vehicle
between the hours specified by official signs on any day except Sundays on any
street so marked.
   (F)   (1)   The city shall determine on what streets or portions thereof
stopping or parking shall be restricted or prohibited. Whenever under authority
of or by this traffic code or any other ordinance any parking limit is imposed
or parking is prohibited on designated streets, or parking areas are restricted
to handicapped parking, appropriate signs shall be erected giving notice
thereof. However, in lieu of erecting such signs or in conjunction therewith,
the face and top of a curb or curbs at or adjacent to which parking is
prohibited at all times may be painted a solid yellow color.
      (2)   No such regulations or restrictions shall be effective unless the
signs have been erected and are in place or the curbs are painted yellow at the
time of any alleged offense, except in the case of those parking restrictions
which by their very nature would not require such signs and markings.
   (G)   When signs are erected in compliance with division (F) above in each
block giving notice thereof, no person shall park a vehicle for a time longer
than specified on official signs any day except Sunday and on any street so
marked.
Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.05 PARKING RESTRICTED TO ALLOW STREET CLEANING.
   The city is authorized to designate street cleaning areas and shall provide
suitable signs and markings on the street to be cleaned, restricting parking on
that particular day. It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to
stop on any street so designated.
Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.06 PARKING IN EXCESS OF CERTAIN NUMBER OF HOURS PROHIBITED; TOWING
AUTHORIZED.
   It shall be unlawful for anyone to park in any one place any vehicle on any
of the public ways or streets of the city for a period of 7 days or longer. Any
vehicle left parked in any one place on any of the public ways or streets of
the city for a period of 7 days or longer shall be deemed abandoned, and shall
be subject to all existing regulations of the city pertaining to abandoned
motor vehicles.
Penalty, see §
72.99
Cross-reference:
   Removal of abandoned vehicles, see §
72.21 et seq.
§ 72.07 PARKING ON PARADE ROUTE.
   (A)   The City Commission or any authorized city official shall have the
authority, whenever in his judgment it is necessary, to prohibit or restrict
the parking of vehicles along a street or part thereof constituting a part of
the route of a parade or procession, to erect temporary traffic signs to that
effect, and to prohibit and prevent such parking.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to park or leave unattended any vehicle in
violation of such signs or directions.
Penalty, see §
72.99
Cross-reference:
   Parades, see §§
71.40 through
71.51
§ 72.08 PARKING ON OFF-STREET FACILITY.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the driver of a motor vehicle to park or
abandon the vehicle or drive on or otherwise trespass on another's property, or
on an area developed as an off-street parking facility, without the consent of
the owner, lessee, or person in charge of such property or facility.
   (B)   If at any time a vehicle is parked, abandoned, or otherwise trespasses
in violation of division (A) of this section, the owner, lessee, or person in
charge of the property or facility may have the unauthorized motor vehicle
removed in accordance with the provisions of §§
72.20 through
72.22.
   (C)   Every property owner or operator of an off-street parking facility
shall post signs stating thereon that the property or parking lot or facility
is privately owned and that unauthorized vehicle will be removed at the owner's
expense before exercising the authority granted in division (B).
Penalty, see §
72.99 
Statutory reference:
   Removal of vehicles by owners of private parking lots; signs, see KRS
189.725
§ 72.09 OWNER RESPONSIBILITY.
   If any vehicle is found illegally parked in violation of any provisions of
this subchapter regulating stopping, standing, or parking of vehicles, and the
identity of the driver cannot be determined, the owner or person in whose name
the vehicle is registered shall be held prima facie responsible for the
violation.
Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.10 PARKING IN PARKS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to park any motor vehicle in or on any
section of any public park, playground, play lot, or tot lot within the city
not designed as a parking area or designed and regularly maintained as a
roadway. However, nothing contained in this section shall be construed as
prohibiting the parking of a motor vehicle parallel to a designated and
regularly maintained roadway in any such park or playground where at least two
wheels of the motor vehicle are resting on such roadway.
Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.11 PARKING WITH HANDICAPPED PERMITS.
   (A)   Any other provision to the contrary notwithstanding, a motor vehicle
bearing a decal in its front windshield issued by the County Clerk pursuant to
appropriate county ordinances for handicapped persons, when operated by a
handicapped person or when transporting a handicapped person, may be parked in
a designated handicapped parking place, or when parked in a metered parking
space may be parked for two hours for no fee, or when parked where any parking
limit is imposed may be parked for two hours in excess of the parking limit.
The motor vehicle may be parked in a loading zone for that period of time
necessary to permit entrance or exit of the handicapped person to or from the
parked vehicle, but in no circumstances longer than 30 minutes.
   (B)   This section shall not permit parking in a “no stopping” or “no
parking” zone nor where parking is prohibited for the purpose of creating a
fire lane or to accommodate heavy traffic during morning, afternoon, or evening
hours, nor permit a motor vehicle to be parked in such a manner as to
constitute a traffic hazard.
Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.12 TRUCK PARKING; DELIVERIES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to park a truck larger than one-ton
panel trailer or disabled vehicle upon any street within the corporate limits
of the city; provided, however, there is excepted from the provisions of this
section, the parking of any vehicle being used for the delivery of goods or
materials to a resident or residence of the city. The time of parking in such
instance of delivery is not to exceed one hour.
('84 Code, § 510.5) (Ord. 1981-11, effective 1-1-82; Am. Ord. 2001-14,
effective 11-13-01)
§ 72.13 AUTHORITY OF CITY COMMISSION TO DESIGNATE “NO PARKING” ZONES.
   The City Commission shall, by ordinance, designate “no parking” zones upon
the city streets, when, in its discretion, such prohibition is in the interest
of the general public.
('84 Code, § 510.3, § 3) (Ord. 1981-11, effective 1-1-82)
§ 72.14 EMERGENCY PARKING RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   The Mayor has the authority when proper emergency exists to declare an
emergency and restrict the parking on city streets to city residents only or
those designated to park on the streets by residents of the city.
   (B)   The city shall post signs declaring such an emergency warning
motorists that the city streets are only open to residents of the city or
designees of the city's residents.
   (C)   If a motorist claims to be a designee of a city resident, it is the
burden of the motorist to prove same. Otherwise, the police are authorized to
only permit residents of the city and designees of the residents of the city to
park within the city limits.
(Ord. 1992-4, passed 8-18-92) Penalty, see §
72.99
IMPOUNDING
§ 72.20 IMPOUNDMENT OF VEHICLES AUTHORIZED; REDEMPTION.
   (A)   All Public Safety and Law Enforcement Authority officers are empowered
to authorize the impoundment of a vehicle violating vehicle-related ordinances
after a citation has been issued.
   (B)   A vehicle slated for impoundment will be tagged and placed under
control of the Public Safety and Law Enforcement Authority. Should a vehicle be
moved without the consent and approval of the Public Safety and Law Enforcement
Authority a warrant shall be issued immediately for the violator's arrest.
   (C)   All fines, fees, and charges must be paid in full before a release of
impoundment can be issued for the vehicle's release.
§ 72.21 REQUIRED NOTICE TO OWNER.
   (A)   When a motor vehicle has been involuntarily towed or transported
pursuant to order of police, other public authority, or private person or
business for any reason or when the vehicle has been stolen or misappropriated
and its removal from the public ways has been ordered by police, other public
authority, or by private person or business, or in any other situation where a
motor vehicle has been involuntarily towed or transported by order of police,
other authority, or by private person or business, the police, other authority,
private person or business shall attempt to ascertain from the Transportation
Cabinet the identity of the registered owner of the motor vehicle or lessor of
a motor carrier as defined in KRS Chapter 281 and within ten business days of
the removal shall, by certified mail, attempt to notify the registered owner at
the address of record of the make, model, license number and vehicle
identification number of the vehicle and of the location of the vehicle, and
the requirements for securing the release of said motor vehicle.
   (B)   If a vehicle described in division (A) above is placed in a garage or
other storage facility, the owner of the facility shall attempt to provide the
notice provided in division (A) above, by certified mail, to the registered
owner at the address of record of the motor vehicle or lessor of a motor
carrier as defined in KRS Chapter 281 within ten business days of recovery of,
or taking possession of the motor vehicle. The notice shall contain the
information as to the make, model, license number and vehicle identification
number of the vehicle, the location of the vehicle and the amount of reasonable
charges for towing, recovery, storage, transporting, and other applicable
charges due on the vehicle. When the owner of the facility fails to provide
notice as provided herein, the motor vehicle storage facility shall forfeit all
storage fees accrued after ten business days from the date of tow. This
division shall not apply to a garage or storage facility owned or operated by a
government entity.
(KRS 376.275(1), (2))
§ 72.22 SALE OF VEHICLE.
   (A)   (1)   Any person engaged in the business of storing or towing motor
vehicles, who has substantially complied with the aforementioned requirements
of this section, shall have a lien on the motor vehicle and its contents,
except as set forth in KRS 376.275(4), for the reasonable or agreed charges for
towing, recovery, storage, transporting, and other applicable charges due on
the vehicle, as long as it remains in his possession.
      (2)   Prior to payment of fees and release of a vehicle, a towing or
storage company shall not refuse the right of physical inspection of the towed
vehicle by the owner or an insurance company representative. Release of the
vehicle shall occur to the owner or insurance company representative upon
payment and consent of the release from the owner or the owner's authorized
representative.
Each additional service shall be set forth individually as a single line item
in the bill with an explanation and the exact charge for the service.
      (3)   If after a period of 45 days, the reasonable or agreed charges for
towing, recovery, storage, transporting, and other applicable charges due on a
motor vehicle and its contents have not been paid, the motor vehicle and its
contents, except as set forth in KRS 376.275(4), may be sold to
pay the charges after the owner has been notified by certified mail ten days
prior to the time and place of the sale. If the proceeds of the sale of any
vehicle pursuant to this section are insufficient to satisfy accrued charges
for towing, transporting, and storage, the sale and collection of proceeds
shall not constitute a waiver or release of responsibility for payment of
unpaid towing, transporting, and storage charges by the owner or responsible
casualty insurer of the vehicle. A lien on a vehicle under this division shall
be subject to prior recorded liens.
      (4)   A lien holder having a prior recorded lien listed on the title
issued by the Commonwealth of Kentucky shall be notified by certified mail
within the first 15 days of impoundment. The letter shall include the make,
model, license number, vehicle identification number, owner's name and last
known address, and tentative date of sale for the vehicle. If the above-
referenced certified letter is not sent within the 15 days by the towing and
storage company, then only 15 days of storage may be charged. The lien holder
has the right to take possession of the motor vehicle after showing proof of
lien still enforced, and paying the reasonable or agreed towing and storage
charges on the motor vehicle. Nothing in this section shall allow the transfer
of a vehicle subject to a lien, except as provided in KRS 186A.190.
(KRS 376.275(3))
SNOW EMERGENCY
§ 72.35 ANNOUNCEMENT OF SNOW EMERGENCY.
   Whenever the City Commission or any authorized city official finds that
falling snow, sleet, or freezing rain will create a condition which makes it
necessary that the parking of motor vehicles on snow emergency routes be
prohibited, or whenever it is found on the basis of a firm forecast of snow,
sleet, or freezing rain that the weather conditions so forecasted may create a
condition making it necessary that such parking be prohibited, the Commission
or city official is authorized to announce such prohibition, to become
effective at a time specified by it. After the effective time of such
prohibition no person shall park any vehicle or permit any vehicle to remain
parked on a snow emergency route. However, if a fall of snow, sleet, or
freezing rain occurs after 11:00 p.m. and prior to 6:00 a.m., and the City
Commission or any authorized city official has not announced prior to 11:00
p.m. that parking on snow emergency routes is to be prohibited after a
specified time, a vehicle parked on a snow emergency route may remain so parked
until 7:00 a.m. following such fall. The prohibition of parking announced by
the City Commission or any authorized city official under the authority of this
section shall remain in effect until the Commission or city official announces
the termination of the snow emergency, in part or in whole, after which the
prohibition of parking authorized by this section shall no longer be in effect.
Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.36 TERMINATION OF EMERGENCY.
   Whenever the City Commission or any authorized city official shall find that
some or all of the conditions which gave rise to the snow emergency prohibition
no longer exist, the Commission or city official is authorized to declare the
termination of the emergency, in part or in whole, effective immediately on
announcement. If such announcement is made other than between 6:00 a.m. and 11:
00 p.m., it shall be repeated between those hours.
§ 72.37 SNOW EMERGENCY ROUTES.
   The term SNOW EMERGENCY ROUTE shall mean any route designated by the City
Commission or any authorized city official. On such street or highway
designated as a snow emergency route, special signs shall be posted to this
effect.
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 72.50 PAYMENT OF FINES FOR PARKING VIOLATIONS.
   All fines for parking violations as set out in §§
72.02(B),
72.03(H) and (I),
72.13, and
Ch.75, Schedule I shall be paid to the City Clerk within ten days from the date
of the citation for the parking violation. If the fine is not paid within ten
days from the date of the violation, then the violator may be cited to Campbell
District Court. All other violations of the above sections of this chapter
shall be cited to Campbell District Court.
('84 Code, § 510.6) (Ord. 1981-11, effective 1-1-82)
§ 72.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   (1)   Whoever violates any provision this chapter, other than §
72.13 and
Ch.75, Schedule I shall be guilty of a violation and shall be punished upon
conviction by a fine of not less than $5 nor more than $25 for each offense.
      (2)   Any vehicle stopped, left standing, caused to be stopped or left
standing in violation of
Ch.75, Schedule I may be towed at the expense of the owner and/or operator of
that vehicle. The penalty for the violation of Ch. 75, Schedule I is a fine up
to the sum of $250 and each day the vehicle is stopped, left standing or parked
in violation shall constitute a separate offense
('84 Code, § 510.3, § 9) (Ord. 1981-11, effective 1-1-82; Am. Ord. 2015-03,
passed 7-7-15)
   (B)   Whoever violates any provision of §
72.13 shall be guilty of a violation and shall be punished upon conviction by a
fine of $25. ('84 Code, § 510.5) (Ord. 1981-11, effective 1-1-82)
   (C)   Any person violating §
72.14 shall subject their automobile to be towed and impounded and shall be
guilty of a violation and shall be subject to a fine of not less than $50 nor
more than $250.
CHAPTER 73: BICYCLES AND MOTORCYCLES
Section
   
73.01   Operation of bicycles
   
73.02   Operation of motorcycles and motorscooters
   
73.03   Skating and coasting
   
73.04   Clinging to vehicles
 
   
73.99   Penalty
Cross-references:
   Bicycles or skateboard ramps on streets and sidewalks prohibited, see §
91.46
   Required obedience to traffic directions, see §
70.02(C)
§ 73.01 OPERATION OF BICYCLES.
   (A)   No person shall operate a bicycle on the sidewalks of the city.
   (B)   No person shall operate a bicycle on any section of a public
park, playground, play lot, or tot lot, except on a roadway or in a parking
area.
   (C)   (1)   A person propelling a bicycle shall not ride other than upon or
astride a permanent and regular seat attached thereto.
      (2)   No bicycle shall be used to carry more persons at one time than the
number for which it is designed and equipped, except that an adult rider may
carry a child securely attached to his person in a back pack or sling.
Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.02 OPERATION OF MOTORCYCLES AND MOTORSCOOTERS.
   (A)   No operator of any motorcycle, motorscooter, or power-driven bicycle
shall carry another person except on a seat attached thereto or in a side car
attached to the vehicle.
   (B)   No operator of a motorcycle, motorscooter, or power-driven bicycle
shall operate such vehicle in any public park, except on a roadway or in a
parking area.
   (C)   No operator of a motorcycle, motorscooter, or power-driven bicycle
shall operate such vehicle in any play lot or tot lot.
Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.03 SKATING AND COASTING.
   Except on streets which may be declared from time to time as “play streets”
by the city and protected by barriers or official signs, it shall be unlawful
for any person on skates or riding on a coaster sled or toy vehicle of any
kind, to go on any roadway except at a crosswalk.
Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.04 CLINGING TO VEHICLES.
   (A)   No person while riding on a bicycle, coaster sled, roller skates, or
any toy vehicle shall cling to any moving vehicle on any street, or fasten or
attach the vehicle on which he is riding thereto.
   (B)   No person shall ride on the projection, running board, or fenders of
any vehicle.
Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter shall be guilty of a
violation and shall be fined not more than $50.
CHAPTER 74: TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
Schedule
      
I.   One-way streets
      
II.   Stop intersections
SCHEDULE I. ONE-WAY STREETS.
   The following streets are limited to one-way traffic in the direction
indicated. Signs shall be erected in these areas stating “ONE WAY” and a yellow
line may also be painted along the curb as a warning, however, failure to paint
the curb shall not relieve the offender of the liability.
 
Street                  Location         Direction         Ord. No. Date
                                                           1981-11; 1-1-82;
Circle Drive            From Uhl Road to Northbound        1985-6;  12-17-85;
                        Terrace Avenue                     1986-5;  8-5-86;
                                                           1990-4   3-6-90
                                                           1981-11; 1-1-82;
Toner Lane              From Uhl Road to Northbound        1985-6;  12-17-85;
                        Dodsworth Lane                     1986-5;  8-5-86;
                                                           1990-4   3-6-90
Intersection of Terrace
Drive and Skyview                       Counter clockwise 1981-11  1-1-82
Drive, around the
traffic circle
 
('84 Code, § 510.3, §§ 6, 7) Penalty, see §
70.99
SCHEDULE II. STOP INTERSECTIONS.
   Stop signs shall be erected in accordance with §
71.06 at the intersections and other places as stated herein below. Every
driver of a vehicle shall stop the vehicle at the clearly marked stop sign
before entering the intersection or proceeding further on a straight-away
except when directed to proceed by a Public Safety and Law Enforcement
Authority officer.
 
Stop Street  Direction  Location                            Ord. No. Date
Circle Drive Northbound Northeast corner of intersection of 1981-11; 1-1-82;
                        Circle Drive and Dodsworth Lane     1990-2   3-6-90
Stop Street     Direction       Location                       Ord. No. Date
                                Northeast corner of            1981-11; 1-1-82;
Circle Drive    Northbound      intersection of Circle Drive   1990-2   3-6-90
                                and Dodsworth Lane
                                Northeast corner of            1981-11; 1-1-82;
Circle Drive    Northbound      intersection of Circle Drive   1990-2   3-6-90
                                and Terrace Avenue
                                Northwest corner of            1981-11; 1-1-82;
Circle Drive    Westbound       intersection of Circle Drive   1990-2   3-6-90
                                and Uhl Road
                                Southwest corner of            1981-11; 1-1-82;
Dodsworth Lane  Eastbound       intersection of Skyline Drive  1990-2   3-6-90
                                and Dodsworth Lane
                                Northwest corner of            1981-11; 1-1-82;
Dorothy Drive   Westbound       intersection of Dorothy Drive  1990-2   3-6-90
                                and Skyline Drive
                                Northeast corner of            1981-11; 1-1-82;
Osage Avenue    Northbound      intersection of Osage Avenue   1990-2   3-6-90
                                and Pine Hill Drive
Pine Hill Drive North and South Middle of block in front of    1981-11; 1-1-82;
                                #25 Pine Hill Drive            1990-2   3-6-90
                                Northwest corner of            1981-11; 1-1-82;
Pine Hill Drive Westbound       intersection of Pine Hill      1990-2   3-6-90
                                Drive and Uhl Road
                                Northeast corner of            1981-11; 1-1-82;
Skyview Terrace Northbound      intersection of Skyview        1990-2   3-6-90
                                Terrace and Terrace Avenue
                                Southwest corner of            1981-11; 1-1-82;
Skyview Terrace Southbound      intersection of Pine Hill      1990-2   3-6-90
                                Drive and Skyview Terrace
                                Southeast corner of            1981-11; 1-1-82;
Terrace Avenue  Eastbound       intersection of Terrace Avenue 1990-2   3-6-90
                                and Skyline Terrace
Terrace Avenue  North and South Middle of block in front of    1981-11; 1-1-82;
                                #12 Terrace Avenue             1990-2   3-6-90
                                Northwest corner of            1981-11; 1-1-82;
Terrace Avenue  Westbound       intersection of Circle Drive   1990-2   3-6-90
                                and Terrace Avenue
                                Southeast corner of            1981-11; 1-1-82;
—             Eastbound       intersection of Pine Hill      1990-2   3-6-90
                                Drive and Skyview Terrace
                                Northeast corner of            1981-11; 1-1-82;
—             Northbound      intersection of Toner Lane and 1990-2   3-6-90
                                Dodsworth Lane
                                Northeast corner of            1981-11; 1-1-82;
—             Southbound      intersection of Skyline and    1990-2   3-6-90
                                Dodsworth Lane
 
('84 Code, § 510.2, §§ 1, 4) Penalty, see §
71.99
CHAPTER 75: PARKING SCHEDULES
Schedule
      
I.   No parking zones
SCHEDULE I. NO PARKING ZONES.
   (A)   Parking prohibited.
Street Location Ord. No. Date
Street       Location                                                                      Ord.  Date
                                                                                           No.
                                                                                           1981- 1-1-
Circle Drive Within 12 feet of the northwest curbline                                   11;   82;
                                                                                           1990- 3-6-
                                                                                           3     90
City Park    Ball fields and soccer fields (See division (B))                                    
                                                                                           1981- 1-1-
Dorothy      Within 12 feet of the northwest curbline                                      11;   82;
Drive                                                                                      1990- 3-6-
                                                                                           3     90
                                                                                           1981- 1-1-
Osage Avenue Within 12 feet of the northeast curbline                                      11;   82;
                                                                                           1990- 3-6-
                                                                                           3     90
                                                                                           1981- 1-1-
Pine Hill    Within 12 feet of the northwest curbline                                      11;   82;
Drive                                                                                      1990- 3-6-
                                                                                           3     90
                                                                                           1981- 1-1-
Skyview      Within 12 feet of the southwest curbline                                      11;   82;
Terrace                                                                                    1990- 3-6-
                                                                                           3     90
                                                                                           1981- 1-1-
Terrace      Within 12 feet of the northwest curbline                                      11;   82;
Avenue                                                                                     1990- 3-6-
                                                                                           3     90
                                                                                           1981- 1-1-
Toner Lane   Entire length of street                                                       11;   82;
                                                                                           1990- 3-6-
                                                                                           3     90
Intersection Around or within the perimeter of the park area (commonly referred to as the
of Pine Hill inside curbline of the “circles”) and also described as the curbline that 1981- 1-1-
Drive and    encircles the grass park area that is located in the approximate center of    11    82
Skyview      the intersection
Terrace       
Intersection Around or within the perimeter of the park area (commonly referred to as the
of Terrace   inside curbline of the “circles”) and also described as the curbline that 1981- 1-1-
Avenue and   encircles the grass park area that is located in the approximate center of    11    82
Skyview      the intersection
Terrace
Intersection                                                                               2004- 2-3-
of Uhl Road  Within 40 feet of the intersection                                            01    04
and Circle                                                                                 2015- 7-7-
Drive                                                                                      03    15
Uhl Road and In either of the two designated parking areas of the Monument Area in excess
Dodsworth    of two hours at any time of the day or night; additionally at no time shall a 2010- 5-4-
Lane         truck of any manner or kind with a weight limit in excess of 10,000 pounds    02    10
(Monument    park in the spots at the Monument Area; this restriction shall not include a
Area)        standard type of pickup truck with a non-commercial registration
Intersection
of Uhl Road  Within 40 feet of the intersection                                            2015- 7-7-
and Pine                                                                                   04    15
Hill
Village      20 feet from the turnaround or in the turnaround on either side. Includes the
Point Drive  entire area of the turnaround and extends the distance of 20 feet in a        2010- 5-4-
            westerly direction from the outside, most westerly curb area of the           03    10
             turnaround
 
('84 Code, § 510.3, §§ 1, 6) Penalty, see §
72.99
   (B)   Parking prohibited in city parks. The following directives shall
designate, restrict and control the parking of any motor vehicle of any type in
the area of the City of Crestview Park (ball fields and soccer fields) located
in the area of Pine Hill Drive as follows:
      (1)   During hours of operation of the park for public use, generally
dawn to dusk, no person, whether attending an event at the park or parking for
any other purpose shall park any motor vehicle of any kind on the upper parking
area nor the lower level parking area, designated for parking, for a period of
time in excess of three hours;
      (2)   During the hours when the park is closed for use, generally after
dusk and before dawn, citizens of the City of Crestview and their guest may use
the upper level of parking at the park for overflow parking for gatherings at
their residences or at other areas within the city limits of the City of
Crestview, however, at no time shall any person park or allow the parking of
any motor vehicles of any type to be parked in the lower level parking
overnight;
      (3)   Designated lower level parking area, during periods of time when
there are no organized ball games being played at the park and after the City
of Crestview has installed a shelter and/or playground equipment, parking shall
be permitted during the hours the park is opened for operation, generally after
dawn and until dusk; during the time the park is closed, after dusk and until
dawn, then no person shall park or allow the parking of any motor vehicle of
any type in the designated lower level parking area.
      (4)   The restrictions as set forth herein above shall not apply for any
City of Crestview sponsored events.
(Ord. 2010-01, passed 5-4-10)
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
      Chapter
         
90.   ANIMALS
         
91.   STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
         
92.   NUISANCES
         
93.   FIREWORKS; FIRE PREVENTION
         
94.   LITTERING
         
95.   ABANDONED OR JUNKED VEHICLES
         
96.   EMERGENCY SERVICES; 911
         
97.   PARKS AND RECREATION
CHAPTER 90: ANIMALS
Section
General Provisions
   
90.01   Definitions
   
90.02   Animals running at large
   
90.03   Cruelty to animals in the second degree
   
90.04   Dyeing or selling dyed chicks or rabbits
   
90.05   Abandoning domestic animals prohibited
   
90.06   Destruction of abandoned and suffering animal
   
90.07   Riding of horses or driving horse-drawn vehicles through city
prohibited
   
90.08   Animal excrement
   
90.15   Definition
   
90.16   Dogs or cats at large
   
90.17   Noise disturbance
   
90.18   Impoundment of dogs and cats
   
90.19   Redemption of animal after impoundment
   
90.20   Animal control officer
 
   
90.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 90.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABANDONMENT. Shall constitute the relinquishment of all rights and claims by
the owner to the animal. (KRS 257.100(4))
   AT LARGE. Off the premises of the owner, and not under the control of the
owner or his or her agent either by leash, cord, chain, or otherwise.
   OWNER. Every person having a right of property to an animal and every person
who keeps or harbors an animal, has it in his or her care, or permits it to
remain on or about the premises owned or occupied by him or her.
§ 90.02 ANIMALS RUNNING AT LARGE.
   (A)   No person who is the owner of any animal shall permit it to run at
large in any public road, highway, street, lane, or alley, or upon unenclosed
land, or permit it to go on any private yard, lot, or enclosure without the
consent of the owner of the yard, lot, or enclosure.
   (B)   The owner of an animal who permits it to run at large in violation of
this section is liable for all damages caused by such animal upon the premises
of another.
Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.03 CRUELTY TO ANIMALS IN THE SECOND DEGREE.
   (A)   A person is guilty of cruelty to animals in the second degree when
except as authorized by law he intentionally or wantonly:
      (1)   Subjects any animal to or causes cruel or injurious mistreatment
through abandonment, participates other than as provided in KRS 525.125 in
causing it to fight for pleasure or profit (including, but not limited to being
a spectator or vendor at an event where a four-legged animal is caused to fight
for pleasure or profit), mutilation, beating, torturing any animal other than a
dog or cat, tormenting, failing to provide adequate food, drink, space, or
health care, or by any other means;
      (2)   Subjects any animal in his custody to cruel neglect; or
      (3)   Kills any animal other than a domestic animal killed by poisoning.
This division shall not apply to intentional poisoning of a dog or cat.
Intentional poisoning of a dog or cat shall constitute a violation of this
section.
   (B)   Nothing in this section shall apply to the killing of animals:
      (1)   Pursuant to a license to hunt, fish, or trap;
      (2)   Incident to the processing as food or for other commercial
purposes;
      (3)   For humane purposes;
      (4)   For veterinary, agricultural, spaying or neutering, or cosmetic
purposes;
      (5)   For purposes relating to sporting activities, including but not
limited to horse racing at organized races and training for organized races,
organized horse shows, or other animal shows;
      (6)   For bona fide animal research activities of institutions of higher
education; or a business entity registered with the United States Department of
Agriculture under the Animal Welfare Act or subject to other federal laws
governing animal research;
      (7)   In defense of self or another person against an aggressive or
diseased animal;
      (8)   In defense of a domestic animal against an aggressive or diseased
animal;
      (9)   For animal or pest control; or
      (10)   For any other purpose authorized by law.
   (C)   Activities of animals engaged in hunting, field trials, dog training
other than training a dog to fight for pleasure or profit, and other activities
authorized either by a hunting license or by the Department of Fish and
Wildlife shall not constitute a violation of this section.
(KRS 525.130) Penalty, see §
90.99
Statutory reference:
   Cruelty to animals in the first degree, a class D felony, see KRS 525.125
§ 90.04 DYEING OR SELLING DYED CHICKS OR RABBITS.
   No person shall sell, exchange, offer to sell or exchange, display or
possess living baby chicks, ducklings, or other fowl or rabbits which have been
dyed or colored; nor dye or color any baby chicks, ducklings or other fowl or
rabbits; nor sell, exchange, offer to sell or exchange or to give away baby
chicks, ducklings or other fowl or rabbits, under two months of age in any
quantity less than six, except that any rabbit weighing three pounds or more
may be sold at an age of six weeks.
(KRS 436.600) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.05 ABANDONING DOMESTIC ANIMALS PROHIBITED.
   No owner of a domestic animal shall abandon the animal.
Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.06 DESTRUCTION OF ABANDONED AND SUFFERING ANIMAL.
   (A)   Any peace officer, animal control officer, or any officer of the
accredited Humane Society or Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals
may destroy or kill or cause to be destroyed or killed, any animal found
abandoned and suffering and not properly cared for, or appearing to be injured,
diseased, or suffering past recovery for any useful purpose.
   (B)   Before destroying the animal the officer shall obtain the judgment to
that effect of a veterinarian, or of two reputable citizens called by him to
view the animal in his presence, or shall obtain consent to the destruction
from the owner of the animal.
   (C)   (1)   Any animal placed in the custody of a licensed veterinarian for
treatment, boarding, or other care, which shall be unclaimed by its owner or
his agent for a period of more than ten days after written notice by registered
or certified mail, return receipt requested, is given the owner or his agent at
his last known address, shall be deemed to be abandoned and may be turned over
to the nearest humane society, or animal shelter or disposed of as the
custodian may deem proper.
      (2)   The giving of notice to the owner, or the agent of the owner of the
animal by the licensed veterinarian shall relieve the licensed veterinarian and
any custodian to whom the animal may be given of any further liability for
disposal.
(KRS 257.100)
§ 90.07 RIDING OF HORSES OR DRIVING HORSE-DRAWN VEHICLES THROUGH CITY
PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to ride on horseback through the city
and further it shall be unlawful to lead such animal or for any person to ride
in a horse-drawn vehicle through the streets of the city.
('84 Code, § 1020.2, § 1) (Ord. 143, effective - - )
Cross-reference:
   Traffic rules, see
Ch. 71 
§ 90.08 ANIMAL EXCREMENT.
   (A)   No person shall allow an animal under his or her control to be upon
public property or upon the property of another, absent the consent of the
owner or occupant of the property, without some device for the removal and
containment of such animal's excrement; nor shall any person fail to remove any
excrement deposited by any animal under his or her control on public or private
property.
   (B)   This section shall not apply to guide dogs under the control of a
blind person.
(Ord. 1991-10, passed 8-6-91) Penalty, see §
90.99
DOGS AND CATS
§ 90.15 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DOG. Any member of the canine family.
   CAT. Any member of the feline family.
   OWNER. Any person having a right of property in a dog or cat and every
person who keeps, harbors, or cares for a dog or cat.
(Ord. 1995-2, passed 8-1-95)
§ 90.16 DOGS OR CATS AT LARGE.
   It shall be unlawful for any owner of any dog or cat, licensed or
unlicensed, to permit the said dog or cat to leave or be beyond the private
premises upon which said dog or cat is kept, except when accompanied or
controlled by its owner, secured by means of a collar or harness with chain or
leash attached thereto and held by said owner, and said owner shall not permit
said dog or cat to be present upon any other public property or upon any other
private property without the permission of the owner of such other private
property.
('84 Code, § 1020.3, § 1) (Ord. 129, effective - - ; Am. Ord. 1995-2, passed 8-
1-95) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.17 NOISE DISTURBANCE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to possess, harbor or keep any dog or
cat that, by its habitual barking, howling, or other act, causes public alarm,
annoyance or disturbance.
(Ord. 1995-2, passed 8-1-95) Penalty, see § 90.99
§ 90.18 IMPOUNDMENT OF DOGS AND CATS.
   It shall be the duty of the Chief of Police or designated agents, or the
Animal Control Officer to seize and impound all animals found in violation of
the provisions of this chapter whether or not the animal be in the possession
of the owner and whether or not the animal be licensed. The Animal Control
Officer shall transport the animal to the Campbell County Animal Shelter and
the animal shall be subject to the regulations of said shelter.
(Ord. 1995-2, passed 8-1-95)
§ 90.19 REDEMPTION OF ANIMAL AFTER IMPOUNDMENT.
   The owner of any animal which has been impounded under the provisions of
this chapter may redeem the animal upon the procurement of all vaccinations,
compliance with all laws and regulations and payment of all fines, licenses,
and fees due under the terms of this chapter, the regulations of the Campbell
County Animal Shelter, or state and county law.
(Ord. 1995-2, passed 8-1-95)
§ 90.20 ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER.
   There is hereby created the position of Animal Control Officer whose duties
it shall be to enforce the provisions of this chapter. The Animal Control
Officer shall be paid according to the terms of a contract agreed upon by all
parties.
(Ord. 1995-2, passed 8-1-95)
§ 90.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter for which
another penalty is not already otherwise provided shall be guilty of a
violation and shall be fined not less than $10 nor more than $250 for each
offense. Each day the violation exists shall constitute a separate offense.
   (B)   Any person who violates §
90.03 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be fined not more than $500,
imprisoned for not more than 12 months, or both for each offense.
(KRS 525.130)
   (C)   Any person who violates §
90.04 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be fined not less than $100
nor more than $500. (KRS 436.600)
   (D)   Anyone violating any provision of §
90.08 shall be subject to fines in the Campbell District Court of not less than
$50 and no more than $100.
   (E)   Any person found in violation of §§
90.16 and
90.17 of this chapter shall be fined $25 for the first violation within a year;
$50 for the second violation within a year; and $75 for each violation
thereafter within a year. (Ord. 1995-2, passed 8-1-95)
CHAPTER 91: STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
Section
Excavations and Construction
   
91.01   Opening permit required
   
91.02   Application and cash deposit
   
91.03   Restoration of pavement
   
91.04   Barriers around excavations
   
91.05   Warning lights
   
91.06   Sidewalk construction
Road and Bridge Projects
   
91.15   Public hearing required
   
91.16   Notice requirements
   
91.17   Public may testify; effect of testimony
   
91.18   Hearing to be held prior to construction
   
91.19   Separate hearing for each project not required
   
91.20   Exemptions from hearing requirement
Obstructions
   
91.30   Unloading on street or sidewalk
   
91.31   Street and sidewalk obstruction
   
91.32   Materials on street or sidewalk
   
91.33   Removal of ice and snow
Prohibited Acts
   
91.45   Depositing, dumping or throwing of waste, refuse or the like on public
streets, ways or property prohibited.
   
91.46   Bicycle or skateboard ramps on streets and sidewalks prohibited
 
   
91.99   Penalty
EXCAVATIONS AND CONSTRUCTION
§ 91.01 OPENING PERMIT REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, other than an authorized city official,
to make any opening in any street, alley, sidewalk, or public way of the city
unless a permit to make the opening has been obtained prior to commencement of
the work.
Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.02 APPLICATION AND CASH DEPOSIT.
   Each permit for making an opening shall be confined to a single project and
shall be issued by the City Commission or other authorized city official.
Application shall be made on a form prescribed by the City Commission, giving
the exact location of the proposed opening, the kind of paving, the area and
depth to be excavated, and such other facts as may be provided for. The permit
shall be issued only after a cash deposit sufficient to cover the cost of
restoration has been posted with the City Commission or other authorized city
official, conditioned upon prompt and satisfactory refilling of excavations and
restoration of all surfaces disturbed.
§ 91.03 RESTORATION OF PAVEMENT.
   (A)   The opening and restoration of a pavement or other surface shall be
performed under the direction and to the satisfaction of the City Commission or
other authorized city official, and in accordance with rules, regulations, and
specifications approved by the City Commission.
   (B)   Upon failure or refusal of the permittee satisfactorily to fill the
excavation, restore the surface, and remove all excess materials within the
time specified in the permit or where not specified therein, within a
reasonable time after commencement of the work, the city may proceed without
notice to make such fill and restoration and the deposit referred to in §
91.02 shall be forfeited. Thereupon the deposit shall be paid into the
appropriate city fund, except such part demanded and paid to the permittee as
the difference between the deposit and the charges of the city for restoration
services performed by it. If the amount of such services performed by the city
should exceed the amount of the deposit, the City Clerk or other proper
administrative officer shall proceed to collect the remainder due from the
permittee.
§ 91.04 BARRIERS AROUND EXCAVATIONS.
   Any person engaged in or employing others in excavating or opening any
street, sidewalk, alley, or other public way shall have the excavation or
opening fully barricaded at all times to prevent injury to persons or animals.
Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.05 WARNING LIGHTS.
   Any person engaged in or employing others in excavating or otherwise in any
manner obstructing a portion or all of any street, sidewalk, alley, or other
public way, at all times during the night season shall install and maintain at
least two illuminated red lamps which shall be securely and conspicuously
posted on, at, or near each end of the obstruction or excavation, and if the
space involved exceeds 50 feet in extent, at least one additional lamp for each
added 50 feet or portion thereof excavated or obstructed.
Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.06 SIDEWALK CONSTRUCTION.
   It shall be the duty of the authorized city official to supervise
construction or repair of sidewalks within the city. He shall cause
specifications to be prepared for the construction of the various kinds of
pavements and transmit the specifications to the City Commission for approval.
When the specifications are approved, the City Commission shall advertise for
proposals to do all the work which may be ordered by the city in construction
and repair of sidewalks, and shall contract therefor for a period not exceeding
one year, with the lowest responsible bidder, who shall furnish good and
sufficient sureties for the faithful performance of the work. The City
Commission may make separate contracts for the different kinds of work with
different parties.
ROAD AND BRIDGE PROJECTS
§ 91.15 PUBLIC HEARING REQUIRED.
   Before the city expends state derived tax revenues on a municipal highway,
road, street, or bridge it shall hold a hearing in accordance with the
provisions of this subchapter to take the sense of the public with regard to
the project and to priorities for use of tax moneys for road and bridge
purposes.
(KRS 174.100)
§ 91.16 NOTICE REQUIREMENTS.
   Not less than 45 days before the contemplated date of expenditure of state
derived tax revenues on a road or bridge by the city, the city shall hold a
public hearing for the purpose of taking the sense of the public with regard to
road and bridge matters within the city. Notice of the hearing shall be given
not less than seven days nor more than 21 days before the scheduled date of the
public hearing and before beginning work on any project covered by this
subchapter.
(KRS 174.100 (1))
§ 91.17 PUBLIC MAY TESTIFY; EFFECT OF TESTIMONY.
   (A)   At the hearing any person may speak with regard to any proposed
project, any project which he feels should be built or done which has not been
proposed, priorities for completion of projects, and any other matter related
to road or bridge projects.
   (B)   The city shall not be bound by the testimony heard at the hearing but
shall give due consideration to it.
(KRS 174.100 (2),(3))
§ 91.18 HEARING TO BE HELD PRIOR TO CONSTRUCTION.
   The city shall not begin construction on a road or bridge project wherein
state derived tax revenues are involved until the hearing as provided herein
has been held.
(KRS 174.100 (4))
§ 91.19 SEPARATE HEARING FOR EACH PROJECT NOT REQUIRED.
   This subchapter shall not be construed to require a separate hearing for
each project. A single hearing encompassing the entire road and bridge program,
provided all projects subsequently undertaken have been identified at the
hearing, shall meet the requirements of this subchapter.
(KRS 174.100 (5))
§ 91.20 EXEMPTIONS FROM HEARING REQUIREMENT.
   (A)   The provisions of this subchapter shall not apply to emergency repair
or replacement of roads or bridges necessitated by natural or man-caused
disasters nor to street cleaning or snow removal operations.
   (B)   The provisions of this subchapter shall not apply to projects which
are under construction as of the effective date of this subchapter unless
construction is suspended after the effective date of this subchapter and the
city desires to reactivate the project.
(KRS 174.100 (6),(7))
OBSTRUCTIONS
§ 91.30 UNLOADING ON STREET OR SIDEWALK.
   No person shall unload any heavy material in the streets of the city by
throwing or letting the material fall upon the pavement of any street, alley,
sidewalk, or other public way, without first placing some sufficient protection
over the pavement.
Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.31 STREET AND SIDEWALK OBSTRUCTION.
   No person shall obstruct any street, alley, sidewalk, or other public way
within the city by erecting thereon any fence or building, or permitting any
fence or building to remain thereon. Each day that any fence or building is
permitted to remain upon the public way shall constitute a separate offense.
Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.32 MATERIALS ON STREET OR SIDEWALK.
   No person shall encumber any street or sidewalk. No owner, occupant, or
person having the care of any building or lot of land, bordering on any street
or sidewalk, shall permit it to be encumbered with barrels, boxes, cans,
articles, or substances of any kind, so as to interfere with the free and
unobstructed use thereof.
Penalty, see §
91.99
Cross-reference:
   Littering on streets or sidewalks, see
Ch. 94
§ 91.33 REMOVAL OF ICE AND SNOW.
   It shall be the duty of the owner or of the occupant of each and every
parcel of real estate in the city abutting upon any sidewalk to keep the
sidewalk abutting his premises free and clear of snow and ice to the extent
feasible under the prevailing weather conditions, and to remove therefrom all
snow and ice, to the extent feasible under the prevailing weather conditions,
accumulated thereon within a reasonable time which will ordinarily not exceed
12 hours after the abatement of any storm during which the snow and ice may
have accumulated.
Penalty, see §
91.99
PROHIBITED ACTS
§ 91.45 DEPOSITING, DUMPING OR THROWING OF WASTE, REFUSE OR THE LIKE ON PUBLIC
STREETS, WAYS OR PROPERTY PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to burn, deposit, dump or throw upon the
public streets, public ways, or public property of the city or upon any private
property within the city, any waste, refuse matter or material or any article
of any such nature or kind.
('84 Code, § 1010.1, § 1) (Ord. 8, effective 2-12-51) Penalty, see §
91.99
Cross-reference:
   Littering, see
Ch. 94
§ 91.46 BICYCLE OR SKATEBOARD RAMPS ON STREETS AND SIDEWALKS PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to erect a bicycle or skateboard ramp on
or within the city, streets, sidewalks, right-of-ways and public parks.
('84 Code, § 1020.8, § 1) (Ord. 1989-8, effective 9-19-89) Penalty, see §
91.99
Cross-reference:
   Bicycles and motorcycles, see
Ch. 73
§ 91.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter shall, upon conviction be
guilty of a violation and shall be fined not less than $10 nor more than $250.
CHAPTER 92: NUISANCES
Section
   
92.01   Definitions
   
92.02   Common law and statutory nuisances
   
92.03   Certain conditions declared a nuisance
   
92.04   Abatement procedure
   
92.05   Nuisance created by others
   
92.06   Suspension of license
 
   
92.99   Penalty
§ 92.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AUTHORIZED CITY OFFICIAL. Includes the Mayor, a designee of the Mayor and
any police officer whether directly employed by the city or contracted for by
the city.
   AUTOMOBILE PARTS. Any portion or parts of any motor driven vehicle as
detached from the vehicle as a whole.
   INOPERATIVE CONDITION. Unable to move under its own power due to defective
or missing parts, and which has remained in such condition for a period of not
less than ten consecutive days.
   MOTOR VEHICLE. Any style or type of motor driven vehicle used for the
conveyance of persons or property.
   NUISANCE. Public nuisance.
   SCRAP METAL. Pieces or parts of steel, iron, tin, zinc, copper, aluminum, or
any alloy thereof, whether covered with porcelain or any other material,
whether intact or in parts, which has served its usefulness in its original
form and can no longer be used for its originally intended purpose.
   UNFIT FOR FURTHER USE. In a dangerous condition; having defective or missing
parts; or in such a condition generally as to be unfit for further use as a
conveyance.
(Am. Ord. 18-04, passed 3-6-18)
§ 92.02 COMMON LAW AND STATUTORY NUISANCES.
   In addition to what is declared in this chapter to be a public nuisance,
those offenses which are known to the common law and statutes of Kentucky as
public nuisances may be treated as such and be proceeded against as is provided
in this chapter or in accordance with any other provision of law.
Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.03 CERTAIN CONDITIONS DECLARED A NUISANCE.
   It shall be unlawful for the owner, occupant, or person having control or
management of any land within the city to permit a public nuisance to develop
thereon. The following conditions are declared to be public nuisances:
   (A)   Dangerous trees or stacks adjoining street. Any tree, stack, or other
object standing in such a condition that it will, if the condition is allowed
to continue, endanger the life, limb, or property of, or cause hurt, damage, or
injury to persons or property upon the public streets or public ways adjacent
thereto, by the falling thereof or of parts thereof.
   (B)   Accumulation of rubbish. An accumulation on any premises of filth,
refuse, trash, garbage, or other waste material which endangers the public
health, welfare, or safety, or materially interferes with the peaceful
enjoyment by owners or occupants of adjacent property because of the danger
that it will catch or communicate fire, attract and propagate vermin, rodents,
or insects, or blow rubbish into any street, sidewalk, or property of another.
   (C)   Storage of explosives. The storage of explosive material which creates
a safety hazard to other property or persons in the vicinity.
   (D)   Weeds and grass. The excessive growth of weeds, grass, or other
vegetation. Unless otherwise provided, EXCESSIVE shall mean growth to a height
of 12 inches or more.
   (E)   Open wells. The maintenance of any open, uncovered, or insecurely
covered cistern, cellar, well, pit, excavation, or vault situated upon private
premises in any open or unfenced lot or place.
   (F)   Trees and shrubbery obstructing streets, sidewalks, and drainage. The
growing and maintenance of trees or shrubbery which in any way interferes with
the use, construction, or maintenance of streets or sidewalks, causes injury to
streets or sidewalks, or constitutes an obstruction to drainage.
   (G)   Keeping of animals. The failure to keep an animal's pen, yard, lot, or
other enclosure in a sanitary condition and free from preventable offensive
odors.
   (H)   Junk; scrap metal; motor vehicles. The storage of motor vehicles in an
inoperative condition, motor vehicles unfit for further use, automobile parts,
or scrap metal within the city limits except on premises authorized by the city
for such purposes.
Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.04 ABATEMENT PROCEDURE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the owner, occupant, or person having control
or management of any land within the city to permit a public nuisance, health
hazard, or source of filth to develop thereon.
   (B)   Whenever a nuisance is discovered, the authorized city official shall
give 30 days written notice to remedy the nuisance situation. The notice shall
be mailed to the last known address of the owner of property, as it appears on
the current tax assessment roll. Upon the failure of the owner of the property
to comply, the authorized city official is authorized to send employees upon
the property to remedy the situation.
   (C)   If the owner or occupier of real estate has not performed the required
abatement procedure within 72 hours of notice, the police of the city shall
issue a warning to the owner or occupier to perform the required abatement
within 24 hours. In the event that the abatement is not performed within 24
hours of the warning by the police, it shall be the duty of the police to issue
a citation for violation of this chapter. If the fine for the violation of this
chapter is not paid within 72 hours from the date of the citation, the police
shall issue a citation to the owner or occupier of the real estate to appear in
the Campbell District Court. In addition, the authorized city official may send
city employees upon the property to remedy the situation.
   (D)   The city shall have a lien against the property for the reasonable
value of labor and materials used in remedying the nuisance situation. The
affidavit of the authorized city official shall constitute prima facie evidence
of the amount of the lien and the regularity of the proceedings pursuant to KRS
381.770 and this section, and shall be recorded in the office of the County
Clerk. The lien shall be notice to all persons from the time of its recording
and shall bear interest at the rate established by the city thereafter until
paid. The lien created shall take precedence over all other subsequent liens,
except state, county, school board, and city taxes, and may be enforced by
judicial proceeding. In addition to this remedy or any other remedy authorized
by law, the owner of a property upon which a lien has been attached pursuant to
this section shall be personally liable for the amount of the lien, including
all interest, civil penalties, and other charges and the city may bring a civil
action against the owner and shall have the same remedies as provided for the
recovery of a debt owed.
Statutory-reference:
   Statutory authorization for abatement and lien procedures, see KRS 381.770
§ 92.05 NUISANCE CREATED BY OTHERS.
   For the purposes of this chapter, it shall not be essential that the
nuisance be created or contributed to by the owner, occupant, or person having
control or management of the premises, but merely that the nuisance be created
or contributed to by licensees, invitees, guests, or other persons for whose
conduct the owner or operator is responsible, or by persons for whose conduct
the owner or operator is not responsible, but by the exercise of reasonable
care ought to have become aware of.
§ 92.06 SUSPENSION OF LICENSE.
   (A)   Whenever it is brought to the attention of the City Commission that a
nuisance exists and the City Commission deems that there is an immediate threat
to the public health, safety, or welfare, the City Commission may by majority
vote suspend the license of any person conducting business upon the premises
where the nuisance exists.
   (B)   The City Clerk shall cause notice of the suspension to be served
personally upon the licensee or at the premises where the nuisance exists.
   (C)   Upon application of the licensee, the City Commission may remove the
suspension upon such terms as it may direct.
§ 92.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and shall be fined not more than $500 for each offense. Each day's
continued violation shall constitute a separate offense.
CHAPTER 93: FIREWORKS; FIRE PREVENTION
Section
Fireworks
   
93.01   Definitions; legality of terms
   
93.02   Sale or use prohibited; exception for public display
   
93.03   Consumer fireworks; restrictions on sale
   
93.04   Bond or liability insurance requirement
   
93.05   Exempted sales and uses
   
93.06   Destruction of fireworks
Fire Prevention
   
93.20   Blasting permit
   
93.21   Storage of flammables and other matter
   
93.22   Open burning within city prohibited
   
93.23   Fire Prevention Code adopted by reference
 
   
93.99   Penalty
FIREWORKS
§ 93.01 DEFINITIONS; LEGALITY OF ITEMS.
   (A)   As used in KRS 227.700 to 227.750, FIREWORKS means any composition or
device for the purpose of producing a visible or an audible effect by
combustion, deflagration, or detonation, and which meets the definition of
"consumer fireworks" as defined in division (B) or "display fireworks" as
defined in division (D) and as set forth in the U.S. Department of
Transportation's (DOT) hazardous materials regulations.
      (1)   Exception number 1: Toy pistols, toy canes, toy guns, or other
devices in which paper or plastic caps manufactured in accordance with DOT
regulations, and packed and shipped according to said regulations, are not
considered to be fireworks and shall be allowed to be used and sold at all
times.
      (2)   Exception number 2: Model rockets and model rocket motors designed,
sold, and used for the purpose of propelling recoverable aero models are not
considered to be fireworks.
      (3)   Exception number 3: Propelling or expelling charges consisting of a
mixture of sulfur, charcoal, and saltpeter are not considered as being designed
for producing audible effects.
(KRS 227.700)
   (B)   As used in KRS 227.700 through 227.750, CONSUMER FIREWORKS means
fireworks that are suitable for use by the public, designed primarily to
produce visible effects by combustion, must comply with the construction,
chemical composition, and labeling regulations of the U.S. Consumer Product
Safety Commission. The types, sizes, and amount of pyrotechnic contents of
these devices are limited as enumerated in this chapter. Some small devices
designed to produce audible effects are included, such as whistling devices,
ground devices containing 50 milligrams or less of explosive composition, and
aerial devices containing 130 milligrams or less of explosive composition.
CONSUMER FIREWORKS are further defined by the Consumer Product Safety
Commission in CPSC, 16 CPSC, 16 C.F.R. Pts 1500 and 1507, are classified as
division 1.4 explosives by the U.S. Department of Transportation and include
the following:
      (1)   Ground and hand-held sparkling devices.
         (a)   Dipped stick-sparkler or wire sparkler. Those devices consist of
a metal wire or wood dowel that has been coated with pyrotechnic composition.
Upon ignition of the tip of the device, a shower of sparks is produced.
Sparklers may contain up to 100 grams of pyrotechnic composition per item.
Those devices containing any perchlorate or chlorate salts may not exceed five
grams of pyrotechnic composition per item. Wire sparklers which contain no
magnesium and which contain less than 100 grams of composition per item are not
included in this category, in accordance with DOT regulations.
         (b)   Cylindrical fountain. Cylindrical tube containing not more than
75 grams of pyrotechnic composition. Upon ignition, a shower of colored sparks,
and sometimes a whistling effect or smoke, is produced. This device may be
provided with a spike for insertion into the ground (spike fountain), a wood or
plastic base for placing on the ground (base fountain), or a wood or cardboard
handle, if intended to be hand-held (handle fountain). When more than one tube
is mounted on a common base, total pyrotechnic composition may not exceed 200
grams, or 500 grams if the tubes are separated from each other on the base by a
distance of at least 1/2 inch.
         (c)   Cone fountain. Cardboard or heavy paper cone containing up to 50
grams of pyrotechnic composition. The effect is the same as that of a
cylindrical fountain. When more than one cone is mounted on a common base, the
total pyrotechnic composition may not exceed 200 grams, or 500 grams of the
tubes are separated from each other on the base by a distance of at least 1/
2 inch.
         (d)   Illuminating torch. Cylindrical tube containing up to 100 grams
of pyrotechnic composition. Upon ignition, colored fire is produced. May be
spike, base, or hand-held. When more than one tube is mounted on a common base,
the total pyrotechnic composition may not exceed 200 grams, or 500 grams if the
tubes are separated from each other on the base by a distance of at least 1/
2 inch.
         (e)   Wheel. A device attached to a post or tree by means of a nail or
string. A wheel may have one or more drivers, each of which may contain not
more than 60 grams of pyrotechnic composition. No wheel may contain more than
200 grams total pyrotechnic composition. Upon ignition, the wheel revolves,
producing a shower of color and sparks and, sometimes, a whistling effect.
         (f)   Ground spinner. A shower of sparks and color is produced by the
rapidly spinning device. Small device containing not more than 20 grams of
pyrotechnic composition, similar in operation to a wheel but intended to be
placed on the ground and ignited.
         (g)   Flitter sparkler. Narrow paper tube attached to a stick or wire
and filled with not more than 100 grams of pyrotechnic composition that
produces color and sparks upon ignition. The paper at one end of the tube is
ignited to make the device function.
         (h)   Toy smoke device. Small plastic or paper item containing not
more than 100 grams of pyrotechnic composition that, upon ignition, produces
white or colored smoke as the primary effect.
      (2)   Aerial devices.
         (a)   Sky rockets and bottle rockets. Cylindrical tube containing not
more than 20 grams of pyrotechnic composition. Sky rockets contain a wooden
stick for guidance and stability and rise into the air upon ignition. A burst
of color or noise or both is produced at the height of flight.
         (b)   Missile-type rocket. A device similar to a sky rocket in size,
composition, and effect that uses fins rather than a stick for guidance and
stability.
         (c)   Helicopter, aerial spinner. A tube containing up to 20 grams of
pyrotechnic composition. A propeller or blade is attached, which, upon
ignition, lifts the rapidly spinning device into the air. A visible or audible
effect is produced at the height of flight.
         (d)   Roman candles. Heavy paper or cardboard tube containing up to 20
grams of pyrotechnic composition. Upon ignition, up to ten stars (pellets of
pressed pyrotechnic composition that burn with bright color) are individually
expelled at several second intervals.
         (e)   Mine, shell. Heavy cardboard or paper tube usually attached to a
wood or plastic base and containing up to 60 grams of total chemical
composition (lift charge, burst charge, and visible or audible effect
composition). Upon ignition, "stars", components producing reports containing
up to 130 milligrams of explosive composition per report, or other devices are
propelled into the air. The term "mine" refers to a device with no internal
components containing a bursting charge, and the term "shell" refers to a
device that propels a component that subsequently bursts open in the air. A
mine or shell device may contain more than one tube provided the tubes fire in
sequence upon ignition of one external fuse. The term "cake" refers to a dense-
packed collection of mine or shell tubes. Total chemical composition including
lift charges of any multiple tube devices may not exceed 200 grams. The maximum
quantity of lift charge in any one tube of a mine or shell device shall not
exceed 20 grams, and the maximum quality of break or bursting charge in any
component shall not exceed 25% of the total weight of chemical composition in
the component.
         (f)   Aerial shell kit, reloadable tube. A package kit containing a
cardboard, high-density polyethylene (HDPE, or equivalent launching tube with
multiple-shot aerial shells. Each aerial shell is limited to a maximum of 60
grams of total chemical composition (lift charge, burst charge, and visible or
audible effect composition), and the maximum diameter of each shell shall not
exceed 1-3/4 inches. In addition, the maximum quantity of lift charge in any
shell shall not exceed 20 grams, and the maximum quantity of break or bursting
charge in any shell shall not exceed 25% of the total weight of chemical
composition in the shell. The total chemical composition of all the shells in
the kit, including lift charge, shall not exceed 400 grams. The user lowers a
shell into the launching tube, at the time of firing, with the fusing extending
out of the top of the tube. After the firing, the tube is then reloaded with
another shell for the next firing. All launching tubes shall be capable of
firing twice the number of shells in the kit without failure of the tube. Each
package of multiple-shot aerial shells must comply with all warning label
requirements of the Consumer Product Safety Commission.
      (3)   Audible ground devices.
         (a)   Firecrackers, salutes. Small paper-wrapped or cardboard tube
containing not more than 50 milligrams of pyrotechnic composition. Those used
in aerial devices may contain not more than 130 milligrams of explosive
composition per report. Upon ignition, noise and a flash of light is produced.
         (b)   Chaser. Small paper or cardboard tube that travels along the
ground upon ignition. A whistling effect, or other noise, is often produced.
The explosive composition used to create the noise may not exceed 50
milligrams.
(KRS 227.702)
   (C)   Items listed below are classified as NOVELTIES and TRICK NOISEMAKERS
and are not classified as consumer fireworks by the U.S. Department of
Transportation and their transportation, storage, retail sale, possession,
sale, and use shall be allowed throughout the state at all times.
      (1)   Snake, glow worm. Pressed pellet of pyrotechnic composition that
produces a large, snake-like ash upon burning. The ash expands in length as the
pellet burns. These devices may not contain mercuric thiocyanate.
      (2)   Smoke device. Tube or sphere containing pyrotechnic composition
that, upon ignition, produces white or colored smoke as the primary effect.
      (3)   Wire sparkler. Wire coated with pyrotechnic composition that
produces a shower of sparks upon ignition. These items may not contain
magnesium and must not exceed 100 grams of composition per item. Devices
containing any chlorate or perchlorate salts may not exceed five grams of
composition per item.
      (4)   Trick noisemaker. Item that produces a small report intended to
surprise the user. These devices include:
         (a)   Party popper. Small plastic or paper item containing not more
than 16 milligrams of explosive composition that is friction sensitive. A
string protruding from the device is pulled to ignite it, expelling paper
streamers and producing a small report.
         (b)   Booby trap. Small tube with string protruding from both ends,
similar to a party popper in design. The ends of the string are pulled to
ignite the friction sensitive composition, producing a small report.
         (c)   Snapper. Small, paper-wrapped item containing a minute quantity
of explosive composition coated on small bits of sand. When dropped, the device
explodes producing a small report.
         (d)   Trick match. Kitchen or book match that has been coated with a
small quantity of explosive or pyrotechnic composition. Upon ignition of the
match a small report or a shower of sparks is produced.
         (e)   Cigarette load. Small wooden peg that has been coated with a
small quantity of explosive composition. Upon ignition of a cigarette
containing one of the pegs, a small report is produced.
         (f)   Auto burglar alarm. Tube which contains pyrotechnic composition
that produces a loud whistle or smoke, or both, when ignited. A small quantity
of explosive, not exceeding 50 milligrams may also be used to produce a small
report. A squib is used to ignite the device.
(KRS 227.704)
   (D)   As used in KRS 227.700 through 227.750, DISPLAY FIREWORKS means
pyrotechnic devices or large fireworks designed primarily to produce visible or
audible effects by combustion, deflagration, or detonation. This term includes,
but is not limited to, firecrackers containing more than two grains (130
milligrams) of explosive composition, aerial shells containing more than 40
grams of pyrotechnic composition, and other display pieces which exceed the
limits for classification as consumer fireworks. DISPLAY FIREWORKS are defined
by the Consumer Product Safety Commission in CPSC, 16 C.F.R. Pts. 1500 and
1507, and are classified as class B explosives by the U.S. Department of
Transportation.
(KRS 227.706)
   (E)   Legality of items.
      (1)   Items described in division (B)(1) above are legal for retail sale
provided all applicable federal and state requirements with respect thereto are
met.
      (2)   Items described in divisions (B)(2), (B)(3), and (D) are not legal
for retail sale but are legal under permits granted pursuant to this chapter
for the purposes specified in this chapter for public displays and may be sold
at wholesale as provided in this chapter.
      (3)   Items described in division (C) are legal for retail sale provided
all applicable federal and state requirements with respect thereto are met.
(KRS 227.708)
§ 93.02 SALE OR USE PROHIBITED; EXCEPTION FOR PUBLIC DISPLAY.
   No person, firm, co-partnership, or corporation shall offer for sale, expose
for sale, sell at retail, keep with intent to sell, possess, use, or explode,
any display fireworks, except for the following:
   (A)   (1)   The City Commission or other authorized city official may grant
permits for supervised public displays of fireworks by the city, fair
associations, amusement parks, and other organizations or groups of
individuals.
      (2)   Every display shall be handled by a competent display operator to
be approved by the public official by whom the permit is granted, and shall be
of such character, and so located, discharged or fired as in the opinion of the
official, after proper inspection, shall not be hazardous to property or
endanger any person.
      (3)   COMPETENT DISPLAY OPERATOR shall be defined as the person with
overall responsibility for the operation and safety of a fireworks display. The
competent display operator shall have a Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms,
and Explosives (ATF) License and have participated as an assistant in firing at
least five public displays. A "competent display operator" is also an employee
possessor. A permit under division (1) shall be issued only to a competent
display operator holding an ATF license.
      (4)   At least one competent display operator shall be on site during
display set-up and firing. This complement display operator shall maintain a
copy of the permit application, as signed by the local authority having
jurisdiction as identified in this section, on site and at all times the
display is in place, and shall be presented on demand of the State Fire Marshal
or local Fire Chief. All public displays that require issuance of a permit
shall be conducted in accordance with the provisions of National Fire
Protection Association (NEPA) 1123 Code for Fireworks Display (adopted
edition).
      (5)   Permits shall be filed with the State Fire Marshal at least 15 days
in advance of the date of the display. After this privilege is granted, sales,
possession, use and distribution of fireworks for the display shall be lawful
for that purpose only. No permit granted under this division shall be
transferable. For the purpose of this section, "public display of fireworks"
shall include the use of pyrotechnic devises or pyrotechnic materials before a
proximate audience, whether indoors or outdoors.
      (6)   Any person remaining within the display area shall be identified as
licensed by the ATF, or an employee thereof, or be an assistant in training to
become a competent display operator. All persons remaining within the display
area shall be at least 18 years of age.
      (7)   The Commissioner of the Department of Housing, Buildings and
Construction with recommendation from the State Fire Marshal shall promulgate
administrative regulations in accordance with KRS Chapter 13A to administer the
provisions of this division. The regulations shall address the process by which
permits are issued and any other procedures that are reasonably necessary to
effectuate this division.
   (B)   The sale, at wholesale, of any display fireworks for permitted
displays by any resident manufacturer, wholesaler, dealer, or jobber, in
accordance with regulations of the U.S. Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, and
Firearms and Explosives, if the sale is to the person holding a display permit
as outlined in division (A) of this section. The permit holder shall present
the permit alone with other verifiable identification at the time of sale.
   (C)   The sale of display fireworks in accordance with a license issued by
the United States Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives.
   (D)   The sale and use in emergency situations of pyrotechnic signaling
devices and distress signals for marine, aviation, and highway use.
   (E)   The use of fuses and railway torpedoes by railroads.
   (F)   The sale and use of blank cartridges for use in a show or theater or
for signal or ceremonial purpose in athletics or sports.
   (G)   The use of any pyrotechnic device by military organizations.
   (H)   The use of fireworks for agricultural purposes under the direct
supervision of the U.S. Department of the Interior or any equivalent or local
agency.
   (I)   Nothing in this section shall prohibit a person, firm, co-partnership,
non-profit, or corporation from offering for sale, exposing for sale, selling
at retail, keeping with intent to sell, possessing or using consumer fireworks
as defined in KRS 227.702 as permitted pursuant to KRS 227.715.
(KRS 227.710) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.03 CONSUMER FIREWORKS; RESTRICTIONS ON SALE.
   (A)   Except as provided in §
93.01, the consumer fireworks described in KRS 227.702 may be offered for sale,
sold at retail, or kept with the intent to sell, only if the requirements of
this section are met.
   (B)   Any person, firm, co-partnership, non-profit, or business intending to
sell consumer fireworks described in KRS 227.702(1) shall register annually
with the State Fire Marshal's office in accordance with KRS 227.715, and
display its registration certificate in a conspicuous location at the site.
   (C)   Each site at which fireworks are offered for sale shall comply with
all applicable provisions of the International Building Code, with Kentucky
Amendments (adopted edition), and NFPA 1124 (National Fire Protection
Association) Code for the Manufacture, Transportation, Storage, and Retail
Sales of Fireworks and Pyrotechnic Articles (adopted addition);
   (D)   No person or business shall give, offer for sale, or sell any consumer
fireworks listed in § 93.01(B) to any person under 18 years of age.
   (E)   No person under 18 years of age may be employed by a fireworks
distribution facility, or manufacturing facility. No person under 18 years of
age shall sell consumer fireworks at a consumer fireworks retail sales facility
registered under KRS 227.715 unless the individual is supervised by a parent or
guardian.
(KRS 227.715(7) - (9)) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.04 BOND OR LIABILITY INSURANCE REQUIREMENT.
   No permit shall be issued under §
93.02 unless the applicant shall give bond or evidence of liability insurance
deemed adequate by the official to whom application for the permit is made, in
a sum not less than $1,000,000. However, the City Commission or other
appropriate city official or the State Fire Marshal may require a larger amount
if in their judgment the situation requires it, conditioned for the payment of
all damages which may be caused thereby either to a person or to property by
reason of the permitted display, and arising from any acts of the licensee, his
agents, employees or subcontractors.
(KRS 227.720) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.05 EXEMPTED SALES AND USES.
   Nothing in this chapter shall prevent the retail sale and use of explosives
or signaling flares used in the course of ordinary business or industry, or
gold star producing sparklers, which contain no magnesium or chlorate, toy
snakes which contain no mercury, smoke novelties and party novelties, which
contain less than twenty-five hundredths of a grain of explosive mixture, or
shells or cartridges, used as ammunition in firearms, or blank cartridges for a
show or theater, or for signal or ceremonial purposes in athletics or sports,
or for use by military organizations, or the sale of any kind of fireworks
provided the same are to be shipped by the seller directly out of the state.
(KRS 227.730)
§ 93.06 DESTRUCTION OF FIREWORKS.
   (A)   The State Fire Marshal, or any fire department having jurisdiction
which has been deputized to act on behalf of the state fire marshal, shall
cause to be removed at the expense of the owner all stocks of fireworks which
are stored and held in violation of this chapter. After a period of 60 days,
the seized fireworks may be offered for sale by closed bid to a properly
certified fireworks wholesaler.
   (B)   After a period of 60 days, the seized fireworks may be offered for
sale by closed bid to a properly certified manufacturer, distributor, or
wholesaler. All seized fireworks or explosives with a Class 1.3G or "Display"
designation shall require the notification of the United States Bureau of
Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives. The state fire marshal shall provide
the owner or possessor a receipt containing the complete inventory of any
fireworks seized within five business days of the seizure.
   (C)   Before any seized fireworks may be disposed of:
      (1)   If the owner of the seized fireworks is known to the state fire
marshal, the state fire marshal shall give notice by registered mail or
personal service to the owner of the state fire marshal's intention to dispose
of the fireworks. The notice shall inform the owner of the state fire marshal's
intent. The state fire marshal shall conduct an administrative hearing in
accordance with KRS Chapter 13B concerning the disposal of fireworks; or
      (2)   If the identity of the owner of any seized fireworks is not known
to the state fire marshal, the state fire marshal shall cause to be published,
in a newspaper of general circulation in the county in which the seizure was
made, notice of the seizure, and of the State Fire Marshal's intention to
dispose of the fireworks. The notice shall be published once each week for
three consecutive weeks. If no person claims ownership of the fireworks within
ten days of the date of the last publication, the state fire marshal may
proceed with disposal of the fireworks. If the owner does claim the fireworks
within ten (10) days of the date of the last publication, a hearing as set out
in division (A) shall be held.
   (D)   Nothing in KRS 227.700 to 227.750 shall restrict a local government
from enacting ordinances that affect the sale or use of fireworks within its
jurisdiction.
(KRS 227.750)
FIRE PREVENTION
§ 93.20 BLASTING PERMIT.
   No person shall cause a blast to occur within the city without making
application in writing beforehand, setting forth the exact nature of the
intended operation, and receiving a permit to blast from the City Commission or
other authorized city official. The City Commission or other authorized city
official, before granting such permit may require the applicant to provide a
bond to indemnify the city and all other persons against injury or damages
which might result from the proposed blasting.
Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.21 STORAGE OF FLAMMABLES AND OTHER MATTER.
   (A)   All flammable or combustible materials shall be arranged and stored in
a manner which affords reasonable safety against the danger of fire.
   (B)   Waste paper, ashes, oil rags, waste rags, excelsior, or any material
of a similar hazardous nature shall not be accumulated in any cellar or any
other portion of any building of any kind. Proper fireproof receptacles shall
be provided for such hazardous materials.
   (C)   No matter shall be stored or arranged in a manner which impedes or
prevents access to or exit from any premises in case of fire.
Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.22 OPEN BURNING WITHIN CITY PROHIBITED.
   No person or persons shall kindle or maintain a bonfire or burn trash,
lumber, leaves, straw, or any other combustible material in any street or
alley, or on any premises or vacant lot.
(Ord. 1991-2, effective 3-5-91) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.23 FIRE PREVENTION CODE ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   (A)   The 1997 edition of the NFPA 1, Fire Prevention Code and documents
listed in Chapter 43 of that code, the 1997 edition of the NFPA 101 Life Safety
Code and the 1999 Kentucky Standards of Safety, a copy of which is on file and
is open for inspection by the public in the office of the City Clerk, are
hereby adopted and incorporated into this chapter as fully as if set out at
length herein, and from the date on which this section shall take effect, the
provisions thereof shall be controlling within the limits of the city. The same
are hereby adopted as the Codes of the city for the purpose of prescribing
regulations governing conditions hazardous to life and property from fire or
explosion and providing for issuance of permits and collection of fees.
   (B)   Designated enforcement officer. The Fire Chief shall be designated as
the local enforcement agent for said Standards of Safety for permits and
required fees shall be provided for in a schedule which is adopted by reference
as if fully set forth herein.
   (C)   Permits and fees. The requirements for permits and required fees shall
be provided for in a schedule which is adopted by reference as if fully set
forth herein.
   (D)   All final decisions of the fire code official of the city shall be
appealable to the City Commission within 30 days after the final decision.
(Ord. 1991-15, effective 9-17-91; Am. Ord. 2000-8, effective 5-23-00)
§ 93.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating the provisions of §§
93.02 or
93.04, the regulations issued thereunder or any order issued thereunder, or who
knowingly induces another, directly or indirectly, to violate the provisions of
those sections, shall be fined not more than $1,000, or imprisoned for not more
than 30 days, or both. (KRS 227.990(4))
   (B)   Any person violating any provision of §
93.22 shall be guilty of a violation upon conviction and shall be punished by a
fine of not less than $50 or more than $200. (Ord. 1991-2, passed 3-5-91)
   (C)   Any person who shall violate any provision of the Code or Standards
adopted in §
93.23 or fail to comply therewith; or who shall violate or fail to comply with
any order made thereunder; or who shall build in violation of any detailed
statement of specifications or plans submitted and approved thereunder; or
failed to operate in accordance with any certificate or permit issued
thereunder; and from which no appeal has been taken; or who shall fail to
comply with such an order as affirmed or modified by a court of competent
jurisdiction, within the time fixed herein, shall severally for each and every
such violation and noncompliance, respectively, be guilty of a Class B
misdemeanor punishable by a fine up to $250 and/or imprisonment up to 90 days
or by both such fine and imprisonment. The imposition of one penalty for any
violation shall not excuse the violation or permit it to continue; and all such
persons shall be required to correct or remedy such violations or defects
within a reasonable time; and when not otherwise specified, the application of
the above penalty shall not be held to prevent the enforced removal of
prohibited conditions. Each day that prohibited conditions are maintained shall
constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 2000-8, effective 5-23-00)
   (D)   Any person who violates any other provision of this chapter shall be
guilty of a violation and shall be fined not less than $10 nor more than $250.
CHAPTER 94: LITTERING
Section
   
94.01   Throwing litter from vehicle
   
94.02   Tracking foreign matter on streets
   
94.03   Hauling loose material
   
94.04   Sweeping litter into gutters
   
94.05   Litter on private property
 
   
94.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Depositing, dumping or throwing of waste, refuse or the like on public
streets, ways or property prohibited, see §
91.45
§ 94.01 THROWING LITTER FROM VEHICLE.
   No person while a driver or passenger in a vehicle shall throw or deposit
litter upon any street or other public place within the city or upon private
property.
Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.02 TRACKING FOREIGN MATTER ON STREETS.
   No person shall drive or move any vehicle or truck within the city, the
wheels or tires of which carry onto or deposit upon any street, alley, or other
public place, mud, dirt, sticky substances, litter, or foreign matter of any
kind.
Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.03 HAULING LOOSE MATERIAL.
   Every person hauling or causing to be hauled dirt, sand, gravel, cement,
fill dirt, or loose material of any kind in or upon any street, alley,
sidewalk, or other public place shall haul it, or cause it to be hauled in
vehicles provided with tight boxes or beds so constructed or loaded as to
prevent any of the contents from falling or being thrown, blown, or deposited
upon any street, alley, sidewalk, or other public place. Any materials which
fall from, or which are thrown, blown, or deposited from any vehicle upon any
street, alley, sidewalk, or other public place, shall be removed immediately by
the person in charge of the vehicle.
Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.04 SWEEPING LITTER INTO GUTTERS.
   No person shall sweep into or deposit in any gutter, street, or other public
place within the city the accumulation of litter from any building or lot or
from any public or private sidewalk or driveway. Persons owning or occupying
property shall keep the sidewalk in front of their premises free of litter.
Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.05 LITTER ON PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   (A)   No person shall throw or deposit litter on any occupied private
property within the city, whether owned by that person or not, except that the
owner or person in control of private property may maintain authorized private
receptacles for collection in such a manner that litter will be prevented from
being carried or deposited by the elements upon streets, sidewalks, or other
public places, or upon any private property.
   (B)   No person shall throw or deposit litter on any open or vacant private
property within the city whether owned by that person or not.
Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any of the provisions of this chapter shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and shall be fined not more than $500. Each day the violation is
committed or permitted to continue shall constitute a separate offense.
CHAPTER 95: ABANDONED OR JUNKED VEHICLES
Section
General Provisions
   
95.01   Definitions
Disabled, Inoperable and Unregistered Vehicles
   
95.10   Abandoned vehicles prohibited
   
95.11   Partially dismantled or junked vehicles prohibited
   
95.12   Authority to remove vehicle; impoundment
   
95.13   Unregistered vehicles
   
95.14   Length of time permitted on property; exception
 
   
95.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 95.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AUTHORIZED CITY OFFICIAL. Includes the Mayor, a designee of the Mayor and
any police officer whether directly employed by the city or contracted for by
the city.
   VEHICLE. Any machine propelled by power, other than human power, designed to
travel on the ground by use of wheels, treads, runners, or slides and to
transport persons or property or pull machinery and shall include, without
limitation, automobiles, trucks, trailers, motorcycles, tractors, buggies,
wagons, campers, and what is commonly referred to as a boat. ('84 Code, §§
510.4, § 1; § 510.4a, § 1) (Ord. 1981-11, effective 1-1-82; Am. Ord. 1990-6,
effective 6-5-90; Am. Ord. 1990-7, effective 6-5-90; Am. Ord. 18-04, passed 3-
6-18)
   PROPERTY. Any real property within the city which is not a street or
highway. ('84 Code, § 510.4a, § 1) (Ord. 1990-6, effective 6-5-90; Am. Ord.
1990-7, effective 6-5-90)
   STREET or HIGHWAY. The entire width between the boundary lines of every
public way when any part is open to use by the public for purposes of vehicular
travel. ('84 Code, § 510.4, § 1) (Ord. 1981-11, effective 1-1-82; Am. Ord.
1990-6, effective 6-5-90)
DISABLED, INOPERABLE AND UNREGISTERED VEHICLES
§ 95.10 ABANDONED VEHICLES PROHIBITED.
   No person shall leave any vehicle at any place within the city for such time
and under such circumstances that indicate an abandonment.
('84 Code, §§ 510.4, § 1; 510.4a, § 1) (Ord. 1981-11, effective 1-1-82; Am.
Ord. 1990-6, effective 6-5-90; Am. Ord. 1990-7, effective 6-5-90) Penalty, see
§
95.99
§ 95.11 PARTIALLY DISMANTLED OR JUNKED VEHICLES PROHIBITED.
   No person shall leave any partially dismantled, wrecked or junked vehicle on
any street or highway within the city.
('84 Code, § 510.4, § 2) (Ord. 1981-11, effective 1-1-82; Am. Ord. 1990-6,
effective 6-5-90) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.12 AUTHORITY TO REMOVE VEHICLE; IMPOUNDMENT.
   An authorized city official of the city is authorized to remove or have
removed any vehicle left at any place within the city, in which said vehicle
reasonably appears to be in violation of this subchapter or to be lost, stolen,
or unclaimed. The vehicle shall be impounded until lawfully claimed or disposed
of and shall be removed and disposed of in conformity with the Kentucky Revised
Statutes.
('84 Code, §§ 510.4, § 3; 510.4a, § 4) (Ord. 1981-11, effective 1-1-82; Am.
Ord. 1990-6, effective 6-5-90; Am. Ord. 1990-7, effective 6-5-90; Am. Ord. 18-
04, passed 3-6-18)
§ 95.13 UNREGISTERED VEHICLES.
   Not more than one currently unregistered vehicle shall be parked on any
property within the city, and the vehicle shall not at any time be in a state
of major disassembly or disrepair or in the process of being stripped or
dismantled.
('84 Code, § 510.4a, § 2) (Ord. 1990-7, effective 6-5-90) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.14 LENGTH OF TIME PERMITTED ON PROPERTY; EXCEPTION.
   No person in charge or control of any property within the city, whether as
an owner, tenant, occupant, lessee, or otherwise shall allow any partially
dismantled non-operating, wrecked, junked, or discarded vehicle to remain on
his property longer than 30 days. This section shall not apply to a vehicle in
an enclosed building, a vehicle on the premises of a business enterprise
operated in a lawful place and manner when necessary to the operation of the
business enterprise, or a vehicle in an appropriate storage place or depository
maintained in a lawful place and manner by the city.
('84 Code, § 510.4a, § 3) (Ord. 1990-7, effective 6-5-90) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.99 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm or corporation violating any provision of this chapter
shall be guilty of a violation and shall be fined in an amount of not less than
$10 nor more than $250. Each day of the violation shall constitute a separate
offense.
('84 Code, § 510.4, § 4; § 510.4a, § 5) (Ord. 1981-11, effective 1-1-82; Am.
Ord. 1990-6, effective 6-5-90; Am. Ord. 1990-7, effective 6-5-90)
CHAPTER 96: EMERGENCY SERVICES; 911
Section
   
96.01   Establishing 911 emergency services
   
96.02   Adopting the National Incident Management System (NIMS)
   
96.03   Adopting the Northern Kentucky Regional Hazard Mitigation Plan
§ 96.01 ESTABLISHING 911 EMERGENCY SERVICES.
   The city authorizes the establishment of 911 Emergency Telephone Service
within the city/county, at a rate to be established by ordinance. The County
Judge Executive is further authorized, if it becomes necessary, to enter into
an interlocal cooperation agreement among the legislative bodies of the
Campbell County Fiscal Court and the Cities of Alexandria, Bellevue,
California, Cold Spring, Crestview, Dayton, Fort Thomas, Highland Heights,
Melbourne, Mentor, Newport, Silver Grove, Southgate, Wilder and Woodlawn to
create the joint 911 Emergency Telephone Service, and to adopt regulations
concerning the provision of this service.
(Ord. 1986-11, effective - -86; Am. Ord. 2001-02, effective 3-13-01)
Cross Reference:
   Emergency telephone service rates, See
Table V of Table of Special Ordinances
§ 96.02 ADOPTING THE NATIONAL INCIDENT MANAGEMENT SYSTEM (NIMS).
   (A)   All emergency response agencies shall adopt and utilize the National
Incident Management System (NIMS) for all incident management and by all
incident response personnel in the state.
   (B)   The National Incident Management System is hereby adopted by reference
to ensure the NIMS is fully incorporated into all emergency response plans,
procedures, and policies, and to ensure that all personnel are appropriately
trained in the NIMS.
   (C)   Training of all emergency responders shall be done in coordination
with the NIMS Compliance Officer as designated for the Commonwealth of
Kentucky.
(Res. 2005-06, passed 7-5-05)
§ 96.03 ADOPTING THE NORTHERN KENTUCKY REGIONAL HAZARD MITIGATION PLAN.
   The City Council hereby:
   (A)   Adopts the Northern Kentucky Regional Hazard Mitigation Plan as the
official Hazard Mitigation Plan of the city;
   (B)   Vests the Campbell County Office of Emergency Management with the
responsibility, authority, and the means to:
      (1)   Inform all concerned parties of this action.
      (2)   Develop an addendum to this Hazard Mitigation Plan if the
jurisdiction's unique situation warrants such an addendum.
   (C)   Appoints Northern Kentucky Area Development District Regional
Mitigation Committee to assure that the Hazard Mitigation Plan be reviewed
according to the Plan Maintenance Procedures in Section 3.5 of the Plan and
that any needed adjustment to the Plan be developed and presented to the
Campbell County Mitigation Committee and the City Council for consideration.
   (D)   Agrees to consider any other official actions as may be reasonably
necessary to carry out the objectives of the Northern Kentucky Regional Hazard
Mitigation Action Plan for the city.
(Res. 2006-03, passed 3-24-06)
CHAPTER 97: PARKS AND RECREATION
Section
   
97.01   Hours of use for city ballfield
   
97.02   Injury or destruction to parks, squares and playgrounds
   
97.03   City park to be made available to county residents
   
97.04   Use of veterans' monument area for playground or other recreational
application prohibited
 
   
97.99   Penalty
§ 97.01 HOURS OF USE FOR CITY BALLFIELD.
   (A)   The following hours are hereby established for the use of the city
ballfield.
      (1)   From September 1 through March 31 the ballfield may be used from 8:
00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m.
      (2)   From April 1 through August 31 the ballfield may be used from 8:00
a.m. to 10:00 p.m.
   (B)   The above established hours shall be posted at the city ballfield by
placing a sign showing the hours of permitted use in a conspicuous place at the
ballfield.
('84 Code, § 710.1) (Ord. 1980-5, effective 2-13-80) Penalty, see §
97.99
§ 97.02 INJURY OR DESTRUCTION TO PARKS, SQUARES AND PLAYGROUNDS.
   (A)   No person shall, without lawful authority, pick, pull, dig, tear up,
break, burn or otherwise damage any tree, shrub, flower, vine, bush or turf, on
or upon any land set aside, dedicated or maintained by the city as a public
park, square or playground, or deposit, throw or leave any trash, debris or
litter upon any such public park, square or playground.
   (B)   No person shall, without lawful authority, willfully break down or
destroy any bench, or damage, deface or alter any guide board or sign, or
obstruct or damage any statue, monument, chair, seat or lamp post on any land
set aside, dedicated or maintained by the city as a park, square or playground
or any railing or fence erected for public use or enclosing any park, square or
playground, or any walk or crossing for pedestrians in any park, square or
playground.
   (C)   No person shall, without lawful authority, willfully do any act or
thing which may tend to injure or disfigure any park, square or playground,
which is set aside, dedicated or maintained by the city, or do anything which
may interfere with the use thereof by the public for the purposes of pleasure
and recreation.
('84 Code, § 710.2) (Ord. 97, effective 3-4-66)
§ 97.03 CITY PARK TO BE MADE AVAILABLE TO COUNTY RESIDENTS.
   In exchange for services and materials from the Fiscal Court of Campbell
County, the City of Crestview does resolve that the city park and ballfield in
the city shall be available for the use and benefit of all residents and
citizens of Campbell County.
(Res. 1982-1, effective - -82)
§ 97.04 USE OF VETERANS' MONUMENT AREA FOR PLAYGROUND OR OTHER RECREATIONAL
APPLICATION PROHIBITED.
   The Veterans' Monuments and immediate surrounding grass area is hereby
declared a non-recreational and non-playground area.
(Res. 1987-2, effective 2-3-87)
§ 97.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person found on the premises of the ballfield of the city at any
hour other than during the period established in § 97.01 of this chapter shall
be deemed guilty of criminal trespass in the third degree, a violation subject
to a fine of not less than $10 nor more than $250. ('84 Code, § 710.1, § 3)
(Ord. 1980-5, effective 2-13-80)
   (B)   Whoever violates any provision of § 97.02 shall be guilty of a
violation and shall be fined not less than $10 nor more than $250 and the cost
of the prosecution. That person may also be required to pay the cost to repair,
replace or remove the damage to the park, square or playground. ('84 Code, §
710.2, §§ 1, 2, 3) (Ord. 97, effective § 3-4-66)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   OCCUPATIONAL LICENSE TAX
      
111.   INSURANCE COMPANIES
      
112.   AMUSEMENTS
CHAPTER 110: OCCUPATIONAL LICENSE TAX
Section
   
110.01   Definitions
   
110.02   Levying of tax
   
110.03   Disposition of revenue
   
110.04   Application for license
   
110.05   Display of license; inspections
   
110.06   Term of license; expiration; proration
   
110.07   License required; liable for fee or tax
   
110.08   License fees
   
110.09   Delinquent payment; interest penalty
   
110.10   Heavy industry is prohibited from operating within city
 
   
110.99   Penalty
§ 110.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUSINESS. An enterprise, activity, profession or undertaking of any nature
conducted by an individual, partnership, corporation, association, or any other
entity for a profit, except this shall not include charitable, religious,
scientific, educational or civic organizations.
   PERSON. An individual, firm, partnership, joint venture, association,
corporation (domestic and foreign), or any other group or combination acting as
a unit.
('84 Code, § 410.1) (Ord. 1980-6, effective 3-12-80)
§ 110.02 LEVYING OF TAX.
   There is hereby levied and established an annual occupational license tax,
in the sums or amounts specified, upon all persons doing business or conducting
any business in this city, which business may be herein or hereafter subject to
the tax, and no person shall conduct any business within the corporate limits
of the city, without first having paid the established tax and having obtained
the prescribed license.
('84 Code, § 410.2) (Ord. 1980-6, effective 3-12-80)
§ 110.03 DISPOSITION OF REVENUE.
   All revenue received from the payment of license taxes and penalties
required by this section shall be paid into and become a part of the general
fund of the city to be used for the general operating expenses of the city.
('84 Code, § 410.3) (Ord. 1980-6, effective 3-12-80)
§ 110.04 APPLICATION FOR LICENSE.
   Every person desiring to obtain an occupational license for any of the
businesses herein enumerated shall apply to the City Clerk, and the person to
whom the license certificate shall be issued shall pay to the city the required
license tax, and obtain the signature of the City Clerk upon his certificate of
license, which certificate shall be evidence of the fact that his license tax
has been duly paid. The license certificate shall be void and have no effect
without the signature of the City Clerk.
('84 Code, § 410.4, § 1) (Ord. 1980-6, effective 3-12-80)
§ 110.05 DISPLAY OF LICENSE; INSPECTIONS.
   Every person licensed to carry on or conduct a business shall maintain the
license prominently displayed in some conspicuous place wherein the business is
being conducted. Every person holding a city license shall produce the license
for inspection whenever required to do so by an officer of the city.
('84 Code, § 410.4, § 2) (Ord. 1980-6, effective 3-12-80) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.06 TERM OF LICENSE; EXPIRATION; PRORATION.
   All licenses issued under this chapter shall be due on January 1 of each
year, and all licenses shall expire on December 31 of each year succeeding the
date issued. No license shall be issued for less than a full year except in the
case of a new business, in which case the applicant for that license not in
that business prior to the date of application may be issued a license with the
tax prorated for that portion of the license year, and any fraction of a month
of the license year remaining shall be counted as a full month, and no license
tax shall be prorated for an amount less than one-fourth of the license tax for
the entire year.
('84 Code, § 410.4, § 3) (Ord. 1980-6, effective 3-12-80)
§ 110.07 LICENSE REQUIRED; LIABLE FOR FEE OR TAX.
   Any person holding himself out by sign, advertisement, or other
representation, to be engaged in any business for which a license is required,
shall be considered and deemed actually engaged in such enterprise and shall be
liable for the fee or tax.
('84 Code, § 410.4, § 4) (Ord. 1980-6, effective 3-12-80)
§ 110.08 LICENSE FEES.
   (A)   The following businesses shall acquire an occupational license and pay
an annual license fee of $50.
      (1)      Accountant;
      (2)      Attorney;
      (3)      Dentist;
      (4)      Physician;
      (5)      Real Estate Broker.
   (B)   The following businesses shall acquire an occupational license and pay
an annual license fee of $25.
      (1)      Appliance store;
      (2)      Art supply store;
      (3)      Bakery or bakery goods store;
      (4)      Barber;
      (5)      Beauty shop;
      (6)      Book store;
      (7)      Camera and photography supply store;
      (8)      Candy store;
      (9)      Carpet store
      (10)   Clothing store;
      (11)   Drug store;
      (12)   Gift shop;
      (13)   Grocery store;
      (14)   Hardware store;
      (15)   Ice cream/dairy/soda fountain;
      (16)   Laundry and/or dry cleaning;
      (17)   Meat market;
      (18)   Produce market;
      (19)   Stationery store;
      (20)   Variety and/or notion store.
   (C)   The following businesses shall acquire an occupational license and pay
an annual license fee of $15: Delicatessen and any other income-producing
business or occupation in the city.
('84 Code, § 410.5) (Ord. 1980-6, effective 3-12-80)
§ 110.09 DELINQUENT PAYMENT; INTEREST PENALTY.
   Any license fee or tax unpaid when due and remaining unpaid for 30 days
thereafter shall have added thereto a penalty of 10% and interest on the
principal sum at the rate of 12% per annum from the date due until paid.
('84 Code, § 410.6, § 3) (Ord. 1980-6, effective 3-12-80)
§ 110.10 HEAVY INDUSTRY IS PROHIBITED FROM OPERATING WITHIN CITY.
   It shall be prohibited to carry on any business or trade in the city which
may be classified as heavy industry or which may be classified as any other
than light business as defined in the planning and zoning ordinances.
(Ord. 141, effective - - ) Penalty, see §
110.99
Cross-reference:
   Comprehensive Plan, see
Ch. 151
   Zoning Code, see
Ch. 153
§ 110.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person conducting a business in this city for which a license fee
is established and a license is required without first having paid the license
fee and having obtained the license therefor shall be deemed guilty of a
violation, and upon conviction shall be fined in the sum of not less than $10
nor more than $250 . Each day that the business is conducted without having
paid the fee and having obtained the license shall constitute a separate
offense.
   (B)   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter for which no
other penalty has been provided shall likewise be guilty of a violation, and
upon conviction the violator shall be fined in the sum of not less than $ 10
nor more than $250. ('84 Code, § 410.6, § 1)
   (C)   A conviction pursuant to divisions (A) and (B) above and the
imposition of a penalty thereunder, shall not excuse any person from the
established fee or tax due and unpaid at the time of such conviction, nor shall
it act as a bar in any civil action brought to effect the recovery of the tax
and interest. ('84 Code, § 410.6, § 2)
(Ord. 1980-6, effective 3-12-80)
CHAPTER 111: INSURANCE COMPANIES
Section
   
111.01   Imposition of license fee
   
111.02   Amount of fee for companies issuing policies other than life insurance
   
111.03   Due date; interest
   
111.04   Written breakdown of collections
§ 111.01 IMPOSITION OF LICENSE FEE.
   There is hereby imposed on each insurance company a license fee for the
privilege of engaging in the business of insurance within the corporate limits
of the city, on a calendar-year basis.
§ 111.02 AMOUNT OF FEE FOR COMPANIES ISSUING POLICIES OTHER THAN LIFE
INSURANCE.
   The license fee imposed upon each insurance company which issues any
insurance policy which is not a life insurance policy shall be at a rate to be
established by ordinance as deemed necessary by City Commission of the premiums
actually collected within each calendar quarter by reason of the issuance of
such policies on risks located within the corporate limits of the city on those
classes of business which such company is authorized to transact, less all
premiums returned to policyholders; however, any license fee or tax imposed
upon premium receipts shall not include premiums received for insuring
employers against liability for personal injuries to their employees, or death
caused thereby, under the provisions of the Workers' Compensation Act and shall
not include premiums received on policies of group health insurance provided
for state employees under KRS 18A.225(2) and 18A.228 or, premiums received by
any state employee benefit fund created pursuant to KRS Chapter 18A for the
purpose of providing health benefits to state employees.
Cross Reference:
   Insurance rates, See
Table V of Table of Special Ordinances
§ 111.03 DUE DATE; INTEREST.
   All license fees imposed by this chapter shall be due no later than 30 days
after the end of each calendar quarter. License fees which are not paid on or
before the due date shall bear interest at the tax interest rate as defined in
KRS 131.010(6).
§ 111.04 WRITTEN BREAKDOWN OF COLLECTIONS.
   Every insurance company subject to the license fees imposed by this chapter
shall annually, by March 31, furnish the city a written breakdown of all
collections in the preceding calendar year for the following categories of
insurance:
   (A)   Casualty.
   (B)   Automobile.
   (C)   Inland marine.
   (D)   Fire and allied perils.
CHAPTER 112: AMUSEMENTS
Section
Gaming or Amusement Devices
   
112.01   License required
   
112.02   Application for license
   
112.03   Term of license; expiration; proration
   
112.04   Display of license
   
112.05   Delinquent payment; interest penalty
 
   
112.99   Penalty
GAMING OR AMUSEMENT DEVICES
§ 112.01 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   There is hereby levied and established an annual license fee for any
business within the confines of the city, having on its premises any gaming or
amusement device such as pinball machines, and no business shall allow any
gaming or amusement device to be operated on its premises without first having
the required license and paying the established fee.
('84 Code, § 420.1) (Ord. 1980-8, effective 2-13-80) Penalty, see § 114.99
§ 112.02 APPLICATION FOR LICENSE.
   Every person or business desiring to obtain a license for any gaming or
amusement device shall apply to the City Clerk and the person or business to
whom the license certificate shall be issued shall pay to the city the fee of
$10 for each such device.
('84 Code, § 420.2, § 1) (Ord. 1980-8, effective 2-13-80)
§ 112.03 TERM OF LICENSE; EXPIRATION; PRORATION.
   All licenses issued under this chapter shall be due on January 1 of each
year, and all such licenses shall expire on December 31 of each year succeeding
the date issued. There shall be no proration of this license fee.
('84 Code, § 420.2, § 2) (Ord. 1980-8, effective 2-13-80)
§ 112.04 DISPLAY OF LICENSE.
   The license shall be displayed in some conspicuous place in the
establishment in which the gaming or amusement device is located.
('84 Code, § 420.2, § 2) (Ord. 1980-8, effective 2-13-80)
§ 112.05 DELINQUENT PAYMENT; INTEREST PENALTY.
   Any license fee remaining unpaid for 30 days shall have added thereto a
penalty of 10% and interest on the principal sum at the rate of 12% annum from
the date due until paid.
('84 Code, § 420.3, § 2) (Ord. 1980-8, effective 2-13-80)
§ 112.99 PENALTY.
   Any person or business required to procure a license under this chapter,
that shall allow any gaming or amusement device to be operated on its premises
without first having obtained the required license shall be deemed guilty of a
violation, and upon conviction shall be fined the sum of not less than $10 nor
more than $250 for the offense.
('84 Code, § 420.3, § 1) (Ord. 1980-8, effective 2-13-80)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   OFFENSES AGAINST MUNICIPAL REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 130: OFFENSES AGAINST MUNICIPAL REGULATIONS
Section
   
130.01   Curfew
   
130.02   Possession or use of firearms; weapons or instruments projecting
missiles of any kind
 
   
130.99   Penalty
§ 130.01 CURFEW.
   (A)   Curfew for minors.
      (1)   It is a curfew violation for a child 13, 14, 15, 16, or 17 years of
age to be in a public place:
            (a)   After 1:00 a.m. and before 5:00 a.m. on Saturday or Sunday;
            (b)   After midnight on Sunday, Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, or
Thursday; or
            (c)   Before 5:00 a.m. on Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday, or
Friday.
      (2)   It is a curfew violation for a child under 13 years of age to be in
a public place after 10:00 p.m. or before 5:00 a.m. on any day.
      (3)   A parent or guardian of a minor who commits an offense, if the
parent or guardian knowingly permits, or by insufficient control allows, the
minor to remain in any public place or on the premises of any establishment
within the city during curfew hours, shall have committed an offense under this
chapter.
      (4)   The owner, operator, or any employee of an establishment commits an
offense under this chapter if he or she knowingly allows a minor to remain upon
the premises of the establishment during curfew hours.
      (5)   GUARDIAN means:
         (a)   A person who, under court order, is the guardian of the person
of a minor; or
         (b)   A public or private agency with which a minor has been placed by
a court.
      (6)   OPERATOR means an individual, firm, association, partnership, or
corporation operating, managing, or conducting any establishment. This term
includes the members or partners of an association or partnership and the
officers of a corporation.
      (7)   PARENT means a person who is:
         (a)   A natural parent, adoptive parent, or step-parent of another
person; or
         (b)   At least 18 years of age and authorized by a parent or guardian
to have the care and custody of a minor.
   (B)   Exemptions. This section does not apply to a child who is:
      (1)   Accompanied by his or her parent, guardian, or custodian;
      (2)   Accompanied by an adult specified by his or her parent, guardian,
or custodian;
      (3)   Carrying out an errand or other lawful activity as directed by his
or her parent, guardian, or custodian; or
      (4)   Participating in, going to, or returning from:
            (a)   Lawful employment; or
            (b)   A lawful athletic, educational, entertainment, religious, or
social event.
   (C)   Authority of police during curfew hours.
      (1)   Any Public Safety and Law Enforcement Authority officer may stop
and question any minor suspected of violating this section's provisions and may
take the minor into custody when found violating provisions of this section.
The officer shall take the minor to the city police headquarters where the name
of the minor's parent, guardian, or person having legal custody of him or her
shall be ascertained.
      (2)   The parent, guardian, or person having legal custody shall be
notified of the child's detention as required by KRS 610.200 and summoned by
the investigating officer to appear at police headquarters to assist in the
completion of the investigation. If the parent, guardian, or person having
legal custody fails to appear within two hours from the time the child was
taken into custody, the investigating officer shall follow the requirements set
forth in KRS Chapter 610 and other applicable provisions of the State Unified
Juvenile Code, regarding detention or release of the child.
      (3)   Unless the nature of the offense or other circumstances are such as
to indicate the necessity of keeping the child in secure custody, the officer
shall release the child to the custody of his or her parent, guardian, person
having legal custody, or other responsible adult.
      (4)   If the investigating or apprehending officer is satisfied that a
violation of division (A) of this section has occurred, he or she shall cause
formal charges to be filed requiring the child and his or her parent, guardian,
or person having legal custody to appear in the appropriate court to answer the
charge of a violation of division (A).
      (5)   If formal charges are to be brought, before a child is released to
the custody of a parent, guardian, person with legal custody, or other
responsible adult, the investigating officer shall obtain a written promise
signed by such person that the person will bring the child to the court at the
stated time or at such time as the court may order. The written promise, along
with the written report of the investigating officer, shall be submitted to the
court as required by KRS 610.200.
   (D)   Any child violating division (A) of this section shall be subject to
the procedures and penalties provided for by the State Unified Juvenile Code.
Any parent, guardian, or person having legal custody of a child who violates
any provision of division (A) of this section may be subject to the financial
penalty provided for in KRS 610.180.
(Am. Ord. 2001-05, effective 3-13-01)
§ 130.02 POSSESSION OR USE OF FIREARMS; WEAPONS OR INSTRUMENTS PROJECTING
MISSILES OF ANY KIND.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to have in his or her possession,
within the city limits of the city, a loaded and unbroken firearm or a revolver
or pistol of any description or shotgun or rifle which may be used for the
explosion of cartridges or any air gun, b-b gun, or air rifles, either gas
operated or spring gun, or any instrument, toy or weapon commonly known as a
pea shooter, sling shot, or beanie, or any bow made for the purpose of throwing
or projecting missiles of any kind by any means whatsoever, whether such
instrument is called by any name set forth above or by any other name, except
it shall be lawful to possess any of the above listed items within a residence
within the city or while transporting such an item into or out of the city if
the item is unloaded and broken down. Any loaded weapon of any type must be
under the control and supervision of a person over the age of 21 who is of
sound mental capacity and who possesses a valid license pursuant to KRS
237.110.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to discharge a firearm, revolver or pistol of any
description, or shotgun or rifle which may be used for the explosion of
cartridges, or any air-gun, b-b gun, or air rifle, either gas operated or
spring gun, or any instrument, toy or weapon commonly known as a pea shooter,
sling shot, or beanie, or any bow made for the purpose of throwing or
projecting missiles of any kind by any means whatsoever, whether such
instrument is called by any name set forth above or by any other name, within
the city limits of the city.
   (C)   The above prohibition shall not be construed to forbid United State
Marshals, Sheriffs, Constables and their deputies and any regular special or ex
officio police officers, or any other law enforcement officer from carrying or
wearing, while on duty, such weapons as shall be necessary in the proper
discharge of their duty.
   (D)   The above prohibition shall not be construed to forbid any resident of
the Commonwealth of Kentucky who has a valid license pursuant to KRS 237.110
from exercising all rights granted by this Commonwealth with the issuance of
that license to that person while in the city limits.
   (E)   Any Public Safety and Law Enforcement Authority officer with
jurisdiction within the city is hereby authorized and directed to confiscate
and hold until such time as a court of competent jurisdiction can determine
whether or not the item confiscated should be returned to the owner or
confiscated by the state, any air rifles, air guns, b-b guns, or any other
weapon of any description or by whatever name known, catapults, sling shots, or
dangerous projectiles found in the possession of or used by any person within
the limits of the city and in violation of this section.
('84 Code, § 1020.1) (Ord. 1981-12, effective 12-9-81; Am. Ord. 2000-2,
effective 1-4-00) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any part of §
130.02, shall be guilty of a violation and upon conviction shall be fined in
any sum not less than $10 nor more than $250, and the costs of prosecution.
   (B)   Penalties for parents and guardians. A person who violates a provision
of this chapter is guilty of a separate offense for each day or part of a day
during which the violation is committed, continued, or permitted. Each offense,
upon conviction, is punishable by a fine not to exceed $500.
('84 Code, § 1020.1, § 4) (Ord. 1981-12, effective 12-9-81; Am. Ord. 2001-05,
effective 3-13-01)
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   BUILDING REGULATIONS
      
151.   PLANNING AND DEVELOPMENT
      
152.   ZONING AND BUILDING PERMIT FEES
      
153.   ZONING CODE
      
154.   ELECTRICAL CODE
      
155.   PROPERTY MAINTENANCE CODE
CHAPTER 150: BUILDING REGULATIONS
Section
Building Code
   
150.01   Adoption of Kentucky Building Code
   
150.02   Application
   
150.03   Appeals
Residential Code
   
150.15   Adoption of Kentucky Residential Code
 
   
150.99   Penalty
§ 150.01 ADOPTION OF KENTUCKY BUILDING CODE.
   (A)   The Kentucky Building Code, promulgated in 815 KAR 7:120 and the
Kentucky Residential Code promulgated in 815 KAR 7:125 by the Board of Housing,
Buildings and Construction, Commonwealth of Kentucky are to be enforced by the
City of Crestview, County of Campbell, Commonwealth of Kentucky as if set out
at length herein.
      (1)   A copy of said Kentucky Building Code and Kentucky Residential Code
is on file in the Office of the Campbell County Clerk, and the Clerk shall at
all times keep a copy of said building code for reference.
      (2)   An copy of this section shall be transmitted to the Office of
Housing, Buildings and Construction of the Commonwealth of Kentucky.
   (B)   Designated enforcement officer. The Campbell County Department of
Building Inspections shall be designated as the local enforcement agent/agency
for said Kentucky Building Code. All building code inspections shall be
performed by persons certified by the Kentucky Office of Housing, Buildings and
Construction. All electrical inspections shall be performed by persons
certified by the Kentucky Department of Housing, Buildings and Construction as
electrical inspectors.
   (C)   Building inspection program.
      (1)    Pursuant to KRS 198B.060(8), a building inspection program is
hereby established in the city for application to all buildings subject to 815
KAR 7:120 Kentucky Building Code.
      (2)   The building inspection program of Campbell County Fiscal Court
Department of Building Inspections shall include plan review and inspections of
structures subject to 815 KAR 7:125 Kentucky Residential Code.
   (D)   Permits and fees. The fees for permits and inspections shall be as
provided for in a separate schedule.
('84 Code, § 910.2) (Ord. 1980-9, passed 3-12-80; Am. Ord. 2009-04, passed 4-7-
09; Am. Ord. 2016-05, passed 9-6-16) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.02 APPLICATION.
   The application of the State Building Code shall be extended to all single-
family dwellings in the city which are to be constructed or remodeled.
('84 Code, § 910.3) (Ord. 1980-9, effective 3-12-80)
§ 150.03 APPEALS.
   Appeals from decisions made by the Building Inspector under this chapter may
be taken to the State Board of Housing, Buildings and Construction unless and/
or until a local board of housing appeals, as set forth in KRS Chapter 198B, is
established to hear such appeals.
Statutory reference:
   Appeals procedure, see KRS 198B.070
RESIDENTIAL CODE
§ 150.15 ADOPTION OF KENTUCKY RESIDENTIAL CODE.
   (A)   Certain documents, three copies of which are on file in the office of
the Department of Planning and Zoning within the Campbell County Fiscal Court,
being marked and designated as International Residential Code, including
Appendix G In-ground Swimming Pools and Appendix K Sound Transmission, as
published by the International Code Council and is hereby adopted as the code
of the City of Crestview for regulating the design, construction, quality of
materials, erection, installation, alternation, repair, location, relocation,
replacement, addition to, use or maintenance of one- and two-family dwellings
and townhouses not more than three stories in height in the City of Crestview
and providing for the issuance of permits and collection of fees therefore; and
each and all of the regulations, provisions, conditions and terms of such
Kentucky Residential Code, 2007 edition, published by the International Code
Council on file in the office of the Campbell County Fiscal Court, Department
of Planning and Zoning are hereby referred to, adopted and made a part hereof
as if fully set out in this section.
   (B)   The following sections are hereby revised:
      Section 101.1 Insert: "City of Crestview".
      Table R301.2(l) Insert: attached table.
(Ord. 2009-03, passed 4-7-09)
§ 150.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who violates any provision of the state codes adopted in § 150.01
shall be subject to the following penalties:
   (A)   Violators of the Uniform State Building Code or the Uniform State
Residential Code shall, upon conviction, be subject to a fine of not less than
$10 nor more than $1000 for each offense. (KRS 198B.990(1))
   (B)   Violators of the State Standards of Safety shall, upon conviction, be
subject to a fine of not less than $25 nor more than $1000, imprisonment for
not more than 60 days, or both, for each offense. (KRS 227.990(1))
   (C)   Violators of the State Plumbing Code shall, upon conviction, be
subject to a fine of not less than $10 nor more than $1000, imprisonment for
not more than 90 days, or both, for each offense. (KRS 318.990)
CHAPTER 151: PLANNING AND DEVELOPMENT
Section
Comprehensive Plan
   
151.01   Adoption by reference
Joint Planning Unit
   
151.15   Creation of interlocal joint planning unit
Planning Commission
   
151.25   Representative
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN
§ 151.01 ADOPTION BY REFERENCE.
   (A)   The Comprehensive Plan Update as prepared by the Campbell County
Municipal Planning and Zoning Commission is hereby adopted by reference and
incorporated into this code of ordinances as if fully set forth herein.
   (B)   Copies of the Goals and Objectives are available for public inspection
at the Campbell County Courthouse Planning and Zoning office in Alexandria or
at the office of the City Clerk.
(Ord. 1989-1, effective - -; Am. Ord. 2006-09, passed 11-21-06; Am. Ord. 2015-
07, passed - -15; Am. Ord. 2016-04, passed 9-6-16)
JOINT PLANNING UNIT
§ 151.15 CREATION OF INTERLOCAL JOINT PLANNING UNIT.
   The city is authorized to enter into an agreement to form and operate a
joint planning unit pursuant to KRS 100.
(Ord. 1988-6, effective - - )
Cross Reference:
   Authorizing an amended agreement by and between Campbell County, Kentucky
and the cities of
    Crestview, Melbourne..., see Table of Special Ordinances, Table II,
Contracts and Agreements
PLANNING COMMISSION
§ 151.25 REPRESENTATIVE.
   Northern Kentucky Area Planning Commission staff is hereby appointed the
duly authorized representative for the Campbell County Fiscal Court, Campbell
County and Municipal Planning and Zoning Commission, Campbell County and
Municipal Board of Adjustments, and the cities of Crestview, Silver Grove,
Southgate, and Melbourne in accordance with KRS Chapter 100.
(Res. 2000-9, effective 6-13-00)
CHAPTER 152: ZONING AND BUILDING PERMIT FEES
Section
   
152.01   Adoption of schedule of fees and charges
   
152.02   Fees shall be paid to County Fiscal Court
§ 152.01 ADOPTION OF SCHEDULE OF FEES AND CHARGES.
   The schedule of fees and charges as established by the Campbell County and
Municipal Planning and Zoning Commission and adopted by the Crestview City
Commission is hereby adopted by reference as if fully set forth herein.
Cross Reference:
   Zoning and Building Permit Rates, See
TSO Table V (Rates Ordinances)
§ 152.02 FEES SHALL BE PAID TO COUNTY FISCAL COURT.
   All zoning fees and building fees shall be payable to the Campbell County
Fiscal Court and placed into a fund for the use of the Campbell County and
Municipal Planning and Zoning Commission.
(1985-2, effective - -85)
CHAPTER 153: ZONING CODE
Section
   
153.01   Adoption by reference
§ 153.01 ADOPTION BY REFERENCE.
   (A)   The municipal zoning ordinance and zoning map, and all amendments
thereto, are hereby adopted by reference and incorporated into this code of
ordinances as if fully set forth herein.
   (B)   Copies of the zoning ordinance and zoning map are available for public
inspection at the offices of the Campbell County and Municipal Planning and
Zoning offices located at 4 West Fourth Street, Newport, Kentucky or the
Alexandria Courthouse, Main Street, Alexandria, Kentucky.
CHAPTER 154: ELECTRICAL CODE
Section
   
154.01 Definitions
   
154.02 Uniform State Building Code adopted by reference
   
154.03 Northern Kentucky Electrical Authority
   
154.04 License required
   
154.05 Reciprocity agreement
   
154.06 Electric permits
 
   
154.99 Penalty
§ 154.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ELECTRICAL CONTRACTORS. Any individual, partnership or corporation that
engages in the business of or employs others for the construction, alteration
or repair of any electrical wiring used for the purpose of furnishing heat,
light or power.
   ELECTRICIANS. Any person who is employed by an electrical contractor and is
engaged in the construction, alteration or repair of any electrical wiring used
for the purpose of furnishing heat, light and power.
   ELECTRICAL. Pertains to the installation of wires and conduits for the
purpose of transmitting electricity, and the installation of fixtures and
equipment in connection therewith.
   ELECTRICAL INSPECTOR. Any person certified by the Commissioner of Housing,
Buildings and Construction pursuant to KRS 227.489 who, for compensation,
inspects the construction and installation of electrical conductors, fitting,
devices and fixtures for light, heat or power service equipment to ascertain
the compliance with the national electrical code incorporated in the uniform
state building codes promulgated pursuant to KRS 198B.050 or the standards of
safety of the Commonwealth of Kentucky.
(Ord. 1991-4, passed 5-7-91)
§ 154.02 UNIFORM STATE BUILDING CODE ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The Uniform State Building Code as is established by the State Board of
Housing, Buildings and Construction is hereby adopted in full by this
ordinance, which shall also be extended to include one- and two-family
dwellings, and the same shall have the effect as if it were written fully
herein, as a minimum standard for the construction, alteration and repair of
any electrical wiring done within the effective area of this chapter. These
standards shall also be used by the electrical inspector in making his
inspections.
(Ord. 1991-4, passed 5-7-91)
§ 154.03 NORTHERN KENTUCKY ELECTRICAL AUTHORITY.
   The formerly established Northern Kentucky Electric Authority, the examining
and appeal board consisting of seven members as authorized in KRS 227.450 and
227.500, shall:
   (A)   Administer electrical contractor's examinations which have been
selected and approved by the Department of Housing, Buildings and Construction
and administer electrician examination;
   (B)   Have the power to issue, renew, suspend and revoke electrical
contractor and electrical licenses;
   (C)   Have the power to require electrical contractors and electricians to
pay reasonable fees for examinations, initial licenses and renewals;
   (D)   Accept an electrical contractor examination certificate issued by the
Department of Housing, Building and Construction as evidence that an applicant
has met the examination requirements;
   (E)   Have the power to require all electrical contractors and electricians
to conform to reasonable standards prior to engaging in their occupations;
   (F)   Compile and submit to the Department of Housing, Building and
Construction all disciplinary actions taken against licensed electrical
contractors on a quarterly basis;
   (G)   Have all other powers authorized for a local examining board by KRS
117.450 et seq.
(Ord. 1991-4, passed 5-7-91)
§ 154.04 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in the business of installing,
altering or repairing, within the limits of the city, any electrical wiring,
devices or equipment unless the individual is the holder of the electrical
contractor's license or employed by a licensed electrical contractor and a
holder of any electrician's license. Application for such license must be made
in writing to the Board, stating the name, experience and qualifications of the
applicant. Upon the applicant's complying with the requirements of this chapter
and passing an examination approved by the Northern Kentucky Electrical
Authority, a license shall be granted to the individual applying for the same.
(Ord. 1991-4, passed 5-7-91) Penalty, see §
154.99
§ 154.05 RECIPROCITY AGREEMENT.
   There is hereby established an agreement of reciprocity between the city and
any other city and county in which there exists legislation basically
containing the provisions of this chapter, and the Mayor is hereby authorized
to execute an interlocal agreement with any such city or county.
(Ord. 1991-4, passed 5-7-91)
§ 154.06 ELECTRIC PERMITS.
   (A)   Electric permits shall be obtained prior to the installation,
addition, alteration, repair, relocation, or removal of electrical wiring.
   (B)   The cost of the permit for electrical installation, additions,
alteration, repair, relocation or removal shall be $20 for one-and two-family
residential permits, $40 for commercial or multi-family residential industrial
permits.
   (C)   All electrical permits shall be obtained from the Office of the
Campbell County Building Codes Administrator.
(Ord. 1991-5, passed 5-7-91) Penalty, see §
154.99
§ 154.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, firm or corporation, violating the provisions of §
154.04 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction in any court of
competent jurisdiction, shall be fined not less than $25 or imprisoned for not
more than 90 days, or both, so fined and imprisoned in the discretion of the
court for each offense, and each day that the person, firm or corporation
violates this chapter, or any provision thereof may be deemed a separate
offense. (Ord. 1991-4, passed 5-7-91)
   (B)   Any person, firm or corporation, violating the provisions of §
154.06 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction in any court of
competent jurisdiction, shall be fined not less than $25 nor more than $250 or
imprisoned for not more than 90 days, or both, so fined and imprisoned in the
discretion of the court for each offense, and each day that the person, firm or
corporation violates this chapter, or any provision thereof may be deemed a
separate offense. (Ord. 1991-5, passed 5-7-91)
CHAPTER 155: PROPERTY MAINTENANCE CODE
Section
   
155.01   (Reserved)
   
155.02   (Reserved)
   
155.03   Definitions
   
155.04   Discarding, storing or permitting items on one's own property
   
155.05   Discarding or storing items on property of another or on public
property
   
155.06   Enforcement
§ 155.01 (RESERVED).
§ 155.02 (RESERVED).
§ 155.03 DEFINITIONS.
   As used in this chapter, unless the context requires otherwise:
   DILAPIDATED ITEM. Any item which is in a state of disrepair; junk,
dismantled or stripped vehicle, or parts thereof; any item which is damaged, in
a state of decay or ruin, or unable to be reasonably used for its intended
purpose without substantial repair or restoration. This definition includes,
but is not limited to, any motor vehicle, boat, equipment, home appliance, and
furniture, or parts thereof that is in a dilapidated or inoperable condition
and which is left in such condition for more than seven consecutive days.
   DISCARDED ITEM. Any item which is cast off, set aside as having no
particular use other than as junk, or having no particular value or worth other
than as junk. This definition includes, but is not limited to, any motor
vehicle, boat, equipment, home appliance, and furniture, or parts thereof that
is discarded for more than seven consecutive days.
(Ord. 1999-14, effective 9-7-99)
§ 155.04 DISCARDING, STORING OR PERMITTING ITEMS ON ONE'S OWN PROPERTY.
   No property owner, record title holder, tenant, or person in possession of
real estate, shall discard, store, place, leave, deposit or allow to be
discarded, stored, placed, left or deposited any dilapidated or discarded item
upon his private property. This section shall not apply to a dilapidated or
discarded item or parts thereof which are enclosed within a building or where
the dilapidated or discarded item or parts thereof are not visible from a
neighboring property, street, road, or public property or otherwise is totally
concealed with appropriate covering, or a dilapidated or discarded item which
is stored or parked in a lawful manner on non-residential, private property in
connection with the business of a licensed dissembler, licensed vehicle dealer,
junk yard or salvage yard, provided, however, this exception shall not
authorize the maintenance of a public or private nuisance as defined under
provision of law other than this chapter.
(Ord. 1999-14, effective 9-7-99)
§ 155.05 DISCARDING OR STORING ITEMS ON PROPERTY OF ANOTHER OR ON PUBLIC
PROPERTY.
   No person shall discard, store, place, leave or deposit any dilapidated or
discarded item on the property of another or on any public property or right-
of-way in the city.
(Ord. 1999-14, effective 9-7-99)
§ 155.06 ENFORCEMENT.
   Any police officer, other law enforcement officer or citation officer/
inspector, may issue a citation to any person who commits a violation of this
chapter in his presence. Any person who knows, sees or otherwise has probably
cause to believe that there has been a violation of any of the provisions of
this chapter may sign a criminal complaint against the responsible party for
the violation of this chapter.
(Ord. 1999-14, effective 9-7-99)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   Table
      
I.   ANNEXATIONS
      
II.   CONTRACTS AND AGREEMENTS
      
III.   EASEMENTS
      
IV.   FRANCHISES
      
V.   RATES ORDINANCES
      
VI.   REAL ESTATE TRANSACTIONS
      
VII.   STREET NAME CHANGES
TABLE I: ANNEXATIONS
Ord. No. Effective Date Description
Ord. No. Effective Date Description
                        Setting out the boundaries of the city as set out and
1        1-8-51         fixed by a judgment of the Campbell Circuit Court on
                        December 1, 1950, incorporating the territory within
                        the boundaries as a city of the sixth class.
17       12-7-51        Annexing certain territory lying along and between
                        Dodsworth Lane and Skyline Drive.
                        Annexing certain territory lying along Uhl Road and
23       6-6-52         south of and adjacent to the present boundary line of
                        the city.
30       9-4-53         Annexing certain territory lying between the northern
                        boundary of the city and Skyline Drive.
                        Annexing certain territory lying north of the northern
32       1-8-54         boundary of the city, and between Dodsworth Lane and
                        Skyline Drive.
                        Annexing certain territory lying north of the northern
36       3-5-54         boundary line and between Dodsworth Lane and the
                        northern boundary of the city.
                        Striking off certain territory lying at the northerly
43       12-7-56        end of the city, and between Dodsworth Lane and Skyline
                        Drive.
51       5-2-58         Annexing certain territory lying along Dorothy Lane and
                        adjacent to the present boundary line of the city.
                        Annexing certain territory lying along Uhl Road near
53       11-7-58        its intersection with Dodsworth Lane and adjacent to
                        the southerly boundary line of the city.
                        Annexing certain territory beginning at a corner in the
74       5-11-61        present corporation line, the corner being the
                        northeast corner of Lot 23 of the Ostertag Addition.
                        Annexing certain territory lying along the southeast
81       5-8-62         boundary of the Ostertag Addition and adjacent to the
                        present boundary of the city.
                        Annexing certain territory beginning at a corner in the
74       - -61          present corporation line, the corner being the
                        northeast corner of Lot 23 of the Ostertag Addition.
                        Annexing certain territory beginning at Point No. 1, a
81       - -62          stake at the northwest corner of Lot No. 20 of the
                        Ostertag Addition (See Plat recorded in Plat Book No.
                        4, page no. 27-K).
                       
 
TABLE II: CONTRACTS AND AGREEMENTS
Ord. No. Date Effective Description
Ord. No.     Date Effective Description
                            Authorizing the Mayor to execute a contract with
                            other municipalities and counties, whose signature
70           - -61          shall be attested by the City Clerk, agreeing to
                            abide by the terms of House Bill No. 450 of the
                            1960 General Assembly of the Commonwealth of
                            Kentucky, creating an area Planning Commission.
                            Authorizing the Mayor of the city to enter into the
Res. 1983-4  - -83          amended agreement to form and operate a Joint
                            Planning Unit Pursuant to KRS Ch. 100.
                            Authorizing the Mayor to execute an amended
                            agreement to form and operate a Joint Planning Unit
                            by and between Campbell County and the Cities of
1985-1       - -85          Crestview, Melbourne, Silver Grove and Southgate on
                            behalf of the City of Crestview. The original
                            thereof shall be filed of record in the office of
                            the County Clerk at Newport, Kentucky pursuant to
                            KRS 100.127.
                            Authorizing the city to enter into an agreement
1988-2       8-2-88         with Rumpke of Kentucky, Inc., to provide garbage
                            collection services to the city.
                            Approving a joint and cooperative program for self-
                            insurance, insurance and the investment of public
                            funds among various cities, urban-county
                            governments and other public agencies within the
                            Commonwealth of Kentucky; authorizing the execution
1988-3       - -88          of the "Interlocal Cooperation Agreement to
                            Establish the Kentucky Municipal Risk Management
                            Association" (the "Interlocal Agreement") under
                            which the program will be organized and financed;
                            authorizing the issuance of revenue bonds under the
                            terms and conditions set forth in the interlocal
                            agreement.
                            Approving participation by the city in the Kentucky
                            Municipal Risk Management Association (KMRMA)
                            General Insurance Trust (a pooled self-insurance
                            and insurance purchase program); approving the
                            purchase by the city through the KMRMA General
1988-4       - -88          Insurance Trust of such liability and property
                            damage insurance coverages as shall be determined
                            advisable; and authorizing the Mayor of the city to
                            execute for and on behalf of the city in connection
                            with its participation in the KMRMA General
                            Insurance Trust a binding trust participation
                            agreement between the city and the KMRMA.
                            Authorizing an amended agreement, by and between
                            Campbell County and the cities of Crestview,
1988-6       - -88          Melbourne, Southgate and Silver Grove, to form and
                            operate a Joint Planning Unit pursuant to KRS Ch.
                            100.
                            Authorizing the sale of the city water works system
1990-11      - -90          and water works mains and appurtenances thereto, to
                            the Campbell County Water District and authorizing
                            the Mayor to execute a contract for same.
                            Authorizing the City Clerk to accept the grant from
                            the Commonwealth of Kentucky for codification of
1990-12      - -90          the city ordinances and authorizing the Mayor to
                            execute a contract with American Legal Publishing
                            Corporation for codification services.
                            Authorizing the Mayor to execute an interlocal
1990-13      - -90          agreement with the City of Cold Spring for police
                            services.
                            Authorizing the Mayor to execute a contract with
1991-6       6-4-91         the City of Cold Spring for the provision of police
                            services.
                            Adopting an interlocal agreement between the
                            Campbell County Fiscal Court and cities of Campbell
1994-1       3-15-94        County establishing the Campbell County Cable Board
                            as the Cable Television Regulatory Authority for
                            the participating local governments.
                            Mayor authorized to enter into contract with
1996-2       8-6-96         Rumpke, Inc. for trash pickup and recycling
                            services for the city of Crestview, Kentucky.
Res. 2000-7  5-2-00         Authorizing the Mayor to execute all documents to
                            extend the contract of Rumpke for one year.
                            Authorizing the Mayor to enter into a purchase
Res. 2000-8  6-13-00        contract with the property owners located at 14
                            Circle Drive for the purchase of that property.
                            Authorizing the Mayor to enter into a contract with
2001-12      9-11-01        Rumpke for solid waste collection and recycling,
                            and establishing fees and penalties.
                            Authorizing the Mayor to execute an interlocal
                            agreement with Campbell County to designate duties
2002-01      1-30-02        and responsibilities for disaster and emergency
                            response to the Campbell County Fiscal Court and
                            the Office of Emergency Management.
                            Authorizing an amended agreement by and between
                            Campbell County and the cities of Crestview,
2002-05      8-27-02        Melbourne, Southgate, Silver Grove and Woodlawn to
                            add the city of Woodlawn to the Joint Planning
                            Unit.
                            Authorizing the Mayor to execute an interlocal
2003-01      2-4-03         agreement with Sanitation District #1 to provide
                            KPDES and other stormwater related services to the
                            city.
2005-05      11-1-05        Adopting an amended agreement to form and operate a
                            Board of Adjustment.
Res. 2005-07 11-1-05        Adopting and approving the execution of a Municipal
                            Road Aid Bond Fund Agreement.
                            Approving amended language to the interlocal
                            agreement establishing the Campbell County Cable
Res. 2006-01 1-17-06        Board as the Cable Television Regulatory for the
                            participating local governments and authorizing the
                            Mayor to execute the amended interlocal agreement
                            on behalf of the city.
                            Authorizing the Mayor to execute a contract with
2006-01      4-4-06         the City of Cold Spring for the provision of police
                            services beginning March 7, 2006.
                            Approving amended language to the interlocal
                            agreement establishing the Campbell County Cable
Res. 2006-04 4-4-06         Board as the Cable Television Regulatory for the
                            participating local governments and authorizing the
                            Mayor to execute the amended interlocal agreement
                            on behalf of the city.
                            Adopting interlocal agreement with Campbell County
2009-02      4-7-09         to provide building permit review and inspection
                            services to the city.
                           
 
TABLE III: EASEMENTS
 
Ord. No. Date Effective Description
                        Granting an easement to the Union Light, Heat and Power
                        Company to provide electric service to the sewage pump
                        station. The 24 foot wide right-of-way and easement is
1981-7   - -81          described as follows: Situated in the City of
                        Crestview, Campbell County, Commonwealth of Kentucky;
                        being part of Lot 46, as shown on Plat "B" of
                        Vetvillage Home Builders Association, Inc. Subdivision.
                       
 
TABLE IV: FRANCHISES
 
Ord. No.          Date Effective Description
                                 Pursuant to an agreement between the City of
                                 Crestview and the Cities of Alexandria,
                                 Bellevue, California, Cold Spring, Dayton,
                                 Fort Thomas, Highland Heights, Melbourne,
Campbell County                  Mentor, Silver Grove, Wilder and Woodlawn
Fiscal Court Ord. - -81          granting a franchise to Storer Communications
No. 0-9-81                       of Northern Kentucky, Inc. for the operation
                                 and maintenance of a Cable Communications
                                 System in Campbell County, setting forth
                                 conditions accompanying the grant of franchise
                                 and providing for the regulation and use of
                                 the system.
1991-12           9-3-91         Granting a franchise to the Union Light, Heat
                                 and Power Company.
1991-13           9-3-91         Granting a franchise to the Union Light, Heat
                                 and Power Company.
                                 The city of Crestview, Kentucky agrees to
1998-2            5-5-98         grant a cable television franchise to TKR
                                 Cable of Northern Kentucky.
                                 The mayor is authorized to enter into a two
                                 year contract with Rumpke Waste System in
1998-12           9-1-98         which Rumpke is granted an exclusive franchise
                                 for providing its residential solid waste
                                 collection service.
                                
 
TABLE V: RATES ORDINANCES EMERGENCY TELEPONE SERVICE RATES
 
Ord. No. Date Effective Description
                        Authorizing the establishment of 911 emergency
                        telephone service, authorizing the County Judge to
1986-11  - -86          enter into an interlocal cooperation agreement
                        regarding same with the cities within Campbell County,
                        and authorizing the assessment of a special fee to fund
                        911 emergency services.
2001-02  3-13-01        Increasing maximum fee imposed for 911 emergency
                        telephone service.
                       
 
Cross Reference:
   Adoption of Emergency Rate Ordinances by reference, See §
96.01
INSURANCE RATES
 
Ord. No. Date Effective Description
-        - -            The license fee imposed on insurance companies issuing
                        policies other than for life insurance shall be 5%.
                        Imposing a license fee on insurance for the 2004 fiscal
2004-02  3-16-04        year at a rate of 10% of the premiums actually
                        collected each quarter.
                       
 
WATER RATES ORDINANCES
 
Ord. No. Date Effective Description
1980-15  1-1-81         Establishing water rates for residents of the city and
                        non-residents of Crestview
1987-1   4-21-87        Establishing the water rate for the residents of the
                        city and repealing all prior ordinances.
                        Repealing ordinance 1987-1 and establishing the water
1988-16  - -88          rate for the residents of the city and non-residents of
                        Crestview, who purchase water from the city.
                        Repealing ordinance 1987-1 and establishing the water
1989-3   2-1-89         rate for the residents of the city and non-residents of
                        Crestview, who purchase water from the city.
                        Establishing the water rates for the residents for the
1990-10  7-3-90         city and non-residents of Crestview, who purchase water
                        from the city.
                       
 
Cross Reference:
   Adoption of Water Rate Ordinances by reference, See §
52.01
ZONING AND BUILDING PERMIT RATES
 
Ord. No. Date Effective Description
                        A schedule of fees and charges for zoning and building
1981-4   5-11-81        permits to be charged by the Zoning and Building
                        Administrator.
1986-10  8-19-86        A schedule of fees and charges adopted for the zoning
                        services and categories listed within it.
                        Adopting the new fee schedule of the Campbell County
1992-5   9-1-92         Planning Commission for all planning, zoning and
                        development matters.
                        Adopting the revised fee schedule for the Campbell
2000-4   1-4-00         County and Municipal Planning and Zoning Commission,
                        Board of Adjustment and Building Department.
                       
 
Cross Reference:
   Adoption of Zoning and Building Permit Fees by reference, See §
152.01
TABLE VI: REAL ESTATE TRANSACTIONS
   Ord. No.   Date Effective      Description
 
Ord. No. Date Effective Description
                        Authorizing the city to enter into an option contract
1988-1   - -88          with Rauch & MacDonald, Inc., to purchase a 3.5 acre
                        tract of property located at the end of Dorothy Drive,
                        and owned by the city.
                        Authorizing the city to execute a Quit Claim deed from
                        the City of Crestview and Vetvillage Home Builders
                        Association, Inc., to the City of Crestview which is
1988-11  - -88          more particularly described as follows: Beginning on
                        rightaway intersection of Uhl Road and Dodsworth Lane
                        (this point being 15 feet and 0 inches northwest of
                        center of Uhl Road and 15 feet and 0 inches southeast
                        of Dodsworth Lane).
2000-11  7-25-00        Authorizing the Mayor to execute all documents for the
                        purchase of 14 Circle Drive.
                       
 
TABLE VII: STREET NAME CHANGES
   Ord. No.   Date Effective      Description
 
Ord. No.    Date Effective Description
                           Naming the alley beginning at an iron pin at the
Res. 1981-3 - -81          intersection of the right-of-way lines of Uhl Road
                           and Dodsworth Lane as Toner Lane.
1988-2      - -88          Changing the name of Evans Drive to Veterans Court.
                          
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Kentucky Revised Statutes
References to 1984 Code
References to Ordinances
References to Resolutions
REFERENCES TO KENTUCKY REVISED STATUTES
State Cite Code Section
State Cite                Code Section
6.050 and Ky. Const. § 4332.47
6.955 - 6.975             33.04
Ch. 13A                   93.02
Ch. 13B                   93.05
Ch. 18A                   111.03
18A.225(2)                111.02
18A.228                   111.02
41.240(4)                 33.05
42.450 - 42.495           33.04
43.050                    33.04
Ch. 61                    32.21
61.870                    34.01
61.870 - 61.882           31.36
61.870 - 61.884           34.05,
                          34.17
61.872(4)                 34.06
61.872(5)                 34.07
61.872(6)                 34.08
61.874 (1)-(3)            34.12
61.874(3), (4)            34.13
61.874(5)                 34.14
61.874(6)                 34.15
61.878                    34.01,
                          34.16
61.878(1)                 34.16
61.880                    34.09
61.884                    34.11
62.060                    31.01
65.120                    Ch. 72
65.8801-65.8839           31.40
Ch. 83A                   31.20
83A.010(3)                10.02
83A.010(6)                10.02
83A.010(8)                10.02
83A.030(2)                30.02
83A.040(1),(2),(6)        31.21
83A.040(2)(d)             31.21
83A.040(2)(b)             31.21
83A.040(3)                31.21
83A.040(4)                32.01
83A.040(5)                32.02
83A.040(6)                32.02
83A.040(7)                31.21,
                          32.02
83A.040(8)                31.21,
                          32.02
83A.040(9)                31.03
83A.045(2)                31.20
83A.045(2)(b)             31.20
83A.050                   31.20
83A.060(1)                32.35
83A.060(2)                32.36
83A.060(3)                32.37
83A.060(4),(7)            32.38
83A.060(5)                32.39
83A.060(6)                32.22
83A.060(8)                32.40,
                          32.41
83A.060(9)                32.42
83A.060(10)               32.43
83A.060(11)               32.44
83A.060(12), (13)         32.45
83A.060(14)               32.46
83A.060(15)               32.47
83A.070                   31.02
83A.075                   31.02
83A.080(1),(2)            31.35
83A.080(3), (4)           31.20
83A.085                   31.36
83A.090                   32.04
83A.130 - 83A.150         31.21
83A.140                   10.18
83A.140(1)                30.01
83A.140(2)                30.02
83A.140(3)                32.03
83A.140(4)                31.21,
                          32.20
83A.140(5)                32.03
83A.140(6)                32.04
83A.140(7)                32.21
83A.140(8)                32.03
83A.175                   32.02
91A.010                   33.01
91A.010(8)                10.02
91A.020                   33.02
91A.030                   33.03
91A.040                   33.04
91A.050                   33.04
91A.060                   33.05
91A.200                   33.11
91A.210                   33.10
91A.220                   33.11
91A.230                   33.12
91A.240                   33.13
91A.250                   33.14
91A.260                   33.15
91A.270                   33.16
91A.280                   33.17
91A.290                   33.18
100                       151.15,
                          151.25
Chs. 116 to 121           31.20
117.450 et seq.           154.03
Ch. 118                   31.20
Ch. 121.180               31.20
131.010(6)                111.03
132.027                   35.02
Ch. 154                   34.16
174.100                   91.15
174.100(1)                91.16
174.100(2),(3)            91.17
174.100(4)                91.18
174.100(5)                91.19
174.100(6),(7)            91.20
186A.190                  72.22
189.020                   71.27
189.290                   71.25
189.330(8)                71.02
189.394                   71.99
189.450(5)                72.03
189.450(6)                72.03
189.580                   71.15
189.725                   72.08
189.930                   71.26
189.993(8)                71.99
Ch. 198B                  150.03
198B.050                  154.01
198B.060(8)               150.01
198B.990(1)               150.99
227.450                   154.03
227.489                   154.01
227.500                   154.03
227.700 - 227.750         93.01,
                          93.05
227.700                   93.01
                          93.01,
227.702                   93.02,
                          93.03
227.702(1)                93.03
227.704                   93.01
227.706                   93.01
227.708                   93.01
227.710                   93.02
227.715                   93.03
227.715(7) - (9)          93.03
227.720                   93.04
227.730                   93.05
227.750                   93.06
227.990(1)                150.99
227.990(4)                93.99
237.110                   130.02
257.100                   90.06
257.100(4)                90.01
Ch. 281                   72.21
318.990                   150.99
376.275(1), (2)           72.21
376.275(3), (4)           72.22
381.770                   92.04
                          32.42,
Ch. 424                   33.14,
                          33.15
424.190(2)                33.04
424.220                   33.04
436.600                   90.04,
                          90.99
446.010(1)                10.02
446.010(2)                10.02
446.010(3)                10.02
446.010(6)                10.02
446.010(9)                10.02
446.010(10)               10.02
446.010(12)               10.02
446.010(13)               10.02
446.010(14)               10.02
446.010(15)               10.02
446.010(16)               10.02
446.010(17)               10.02
446.010(18)               10.02
446.010(23)               10.02
446.010(25)               10.02
446.010(26)               10.02
446.010(27)               10.02
446.010(28)               10.02
446.010(30)               10.02
446.010(31)               10.02
446.010(33)               10.02
446.010(36)               10.02
446.010(37)               10.02
446.010(39)               10.02
446.010(43)               10.02
446.010(46)               10.02
446.010(47)               10.02
446.010(49)               10.02
446.010(55)               10.02
446.020(1)                10.03
446.020(2)                10.03
446.030                   10.04
446.050                   10.05
446.060                   10.06
446.080(1)                10.03
446.080(3)                10.03
446.080(4)                10.03
446.090                   10.07
446.100                   10.08
446.110                   10.09
446.140                   10.01
525.125                   90.03
525.130                   90.03,
                          90.99
Ch. 610                   130.01
610.180                   130.01
610.200                   130.01
                          
 
REFERENCES TO 1984 CODE
1984 Code Section 1992 Code Section
1984 Code Section 1992 Code Section
36.50             36.50
110.1             31.20
120.2             31.21
140.01            32.21
150.1             36.01
150.2             36.02
150.3             36.10
150.4             36.20
150.6             36.40
150.8             36.60
150.9             33.06
160.2             31.36
160.3             31.37
160.4             31.38
160.7             31.39
170.1             37.01
220.11            35.01
220.12            35.02
220.13            35.03
220.14            35.04
220.21            50.10
220.22            50.11
220.23            50.12
410.1             110.01
410.2             110.02
410.3             110.03
410.41            110.04
410.42            110.05
410.43            110.06
410.44            110.07
410.5             110.08
410.61            110.99
410.62            110.99
410.63            110.09
420.1             112.01
420.21            112.02
420.22            112.03,
                  112.04
420.31            112.99
420.32            112.05
510.1             71.05
510.2, §§ 1, 4  73.99
510.22            71.06
510.23            71.06
510.24            71.06
510.3, §§ 1, 6  73.99
510.32            72.02
510.33            72.13
510.35            72.03
510.3, §§ 6, 7  73.99
510.38            72.03
510.39            72.99
510.4, § 1       95.01,
                  95.10
510.4, § 2       95.11
510.4, § 3       95.12
510.4, § 4       95.99
510.4a, § 1      95.01,
                  95.10
510.4a, § 2      95.13
510.4a, § 3      95.14
510.4a, § 4      95.12
510.4a, § 5      95.99
510.5             72.12,
                  72.99
510.6             72.50
620.1             51.15
620.2             51.16
620.31            51.01
620.4             51.02
710.1             97.01
710.13            97.99
710.2             97.02
710.2, §§ 1, 2, 97.99
910.2             150.01
910.3             150.02
1010.11           91.45
1020.1            130.02
1020.14           130.99
1020.21           90.07
1020.22           90.99
1020.31           90.16
1020.32           90.99
1020.81           91.46
                  
 
REFERENCES TO RESOLUTIONS
Res. No. Date Passed Code Section
Res. No. Date Passed Code Section
1981-3   - -81       T.S.O. VII
1982-1   - -82       97.03
1983-4   - -83       T.S.O. II
1986-3   - -86       36.70
1987-2   2-3-87      97.04
2000-7   5-2-00      T.S.O. II
2000-8   6-13-00     T.S.O. II
2000-9   6-13-00     151.25
2005-06  7-5-05      96.02
2005-07  11-1-05     T.S.O. II
2006-01  1-17-06     T.S.O. II
2006-03  3-24-06     96.03
2006-04  4-4-06      T.S.O. II
                    
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed  Code Section
Ord. No. Date Passed  Code Section
-        - -            T.S.O. V
1        1-8-51         11.01
8        2-12-51        91.45
49       3-13-58        52.02
50       4-11-58        51.01
70       - -61          T.S.O. II
74       - -61          T.S.O. I
81       - -62          T.S.O. I
97       3-4-66         97.02,
                        97.99
102      5-3-68         51.02
129      - -            90.16,
                        90.99
141      - -            110.10
143      - -            90.07,
                        90.99
1980-5   2-13-80        97.01,
                        97.99
                        112.01 -
1980-8   2-13-80        112.05,
                        112.99
                        110.01 -
1980-6   3-12-80        110.09,
                        110.99
1980-9   3-12-80        150.01,
                        150.02
1980-11  7-9-80         37.01
0-9-81   - -81          T.S.O. IV
1980-15  1-1-81         T.S.O. V
1981-4   5-11-81        T.S.O. V
1981-7   - -81          T.S.O. III
1981-8   9-9-81         51.15
1981-12  12-9-81        130.02,
                        130.99
                        72.03,
                        72.12,
                        72.13,
                        72.50,
                        72.99,
1981-11  1-1-82         Ch. 74, Sch. I,
                        Ch. 74, Sch. II,
                        95.01,
                        95.10 -
                        95.12,
                        95.99
1982     1-12-83        31.36
                        36.01,
                        36.02,
                        36.10,
1982-7   1-12-83        36.20,
                        36.40,
                        36.50,
                        36.60
1982-8   1-12-83        31.35,
                        31.39
1983-2   2-9-83         51.16
1983-4   3-23-83        31.36 -
                        31.38
1983-6   4-13-83        32.21
1983-7   5-17-83        35.01 -
                        35.04
1983-8   5-17-83        50.10 -
                        50.12
1984-1   2-7-84         31.21
1985-1   - -85          T.S.O. II
1985-6   12-17-85       Ch. 74, Sch. I
1985-7   12-17-85       31.21
1986-5   8-5-86         Ch. 74, Sch. I
1986-6   8-19-86        33.06
1986-8   8-19-86        35.03
1986-10  8-19-86        T.S.O. V
1986-11  - -86          T.S.O. V,
                        96.01
1987-1   4-21-87        T.S.O. V
1987-6   12-1-87        32.21
1988-1   - -88          T.S.O. VI
1988-2   - -88          T.S.O. VII
1988-2   8-2-88         T.S.O. II
1988-3   - -88          T.S.O. II
1988-4   - -88          T.S.O. II
1988-6   - -88          151.15,
                        T.S.O. II
1988-8   7-19-88        51.15
1988-11  - -88          T.S.O. VI
1988-16  - -88          T.S.O. V
1989-1   - -            151.01
1989-2   1-26-89        31.20
1989-3   2-1-89         T.S.O. V
1989-4   4-4-89         31.36,
                        31.37
1989-6   9-5-89         35.03,
                        35.04
1989-7   9-5-89         50.12
1989-8   9-19-89        91.46
1990-1   2-6-90         31.38
1990-2   3-6-90         Ch. 74, Sch. II
1990-3   3-6-90         Ch. 75, Sch. I
1990-4   3-6-90         Ch. 74, Sch. I
1990-5   - -90          50.01,
                        50.99
1990-6   6-5-90         95.01
1990-7   6-5-90         95.01
1990-9   6-19-90        32.21
1990-10  7-3-90         T.S.O. V
1990-11  - -90          T.S.O. II
1990-12  - -90          T.S.O. II
1990-13  - -90          T.S.O. II
1991-2   3-5-91         93.22,
                        93.99
1991-3   4-2-91         31.20
                        154.01 -
1991-4   5-7-91         154.05,
                        154.99
1991-5   5-7-91         154.06,
                        154.99
1991-6   6-4-91         T.S.O. II
1991-10  8-6-91         90.04,
                        90.08
1991-12  9-3-91         T.S.O. IV
1991-13  9-3-91         T.S.O. IV
1991-15  9-17-91        93.23
1992-3   8-4-92         Ch. 154
1992-4   8-18-92        72.14,
                        72.99
1992-5   9-1-92         T.S.O. V
1992-7   9-1-92         50.10
1993-1   2-2-93         31.38
1993-5   9-7-93         50.10
1993-6   - -            Adopting Ordinance
1994-1   3-15-94        T.S.O. II
1994-3   11-1-94        Ch. 38
1994-4   9-6-94         38.03
1994-6   12-6-94        50.10
                        90.15 -
1995-2   8-1-95         90.20,
                        90.99
1995-4   9-5-95         50.10
1996-2   8-6-96         T.S.O. II
1996-3   9-3-96         35.03
1996-4   9-3-96         50.10
1997-1   5-6-97         51.15
1997-3   9-2-97         35.03
1997-4   9-2-97         50.10
1998-2   5-5-98         T.S.O. IV
1998-7   6-2-98         31.40
1998-8   6-2-98         10.99
1998-9   9-1-98         32.21
1998-10  9-1-98         34.05
1998-12  6-4-98         T.S.O. IV
1998-13  9-1-98         35.03
1999-2   2-2-99         32.21
1999-12  9-7-99         50.10 -
                        50.12
1999-14  9-7-99         155.01 -
                        155.06
2000-1   1-4-00         31.40
2000-2   1-4-00         130.02
2000-4   1-4-00         T.S.O. V
2000-6   5-23-00        32.21
2000-8   5-23-00        93.23,
                        93.99
2000-11  7-25-00        T.S.O. VI
2000-15  9-26-00        32.21
2001-02  3-13-01        96.01,
                        T.S.O. V
2001-05  3-13-01        130.01,
                        130.99
2001-06  2-1-01         31.40
2001-09  9-11-01        35.03
2001-10  9-25-01        Adopting Ordinance
2001-12  9-11-01        T.S.O. II
2001-14  11-13-01       72.12
2002-01  1-30-02        T.S.O. II
2002-05  8-27-02        T.S.O. II
2002-07  9-10-02        35.03
2002-08  9-10-02        50.10
2002-09  12-10-02       32.21
2003-01  2-4-03         T.S.O. II
2003-04  9-2-03         35.03
2003-05  9-2-03         50.10
2004-01  2-3-04         Ch. 75, Sch. I
2004-02  3-16-04        T.S.O. V
2004-06  9-7-04         35.03
2004-07  9-7-04         50.10
2004-08  9-7-04         Adopting Ordinance
2005-03  9-6-05         35.03
2005-04  9-6-05         50.10
2005-05  11-1-05        T.S.O. II
2006-01  4-4-06         T.S.O. II
2006-03  9-5-06         35.03
2006-04  9-5-06         50.10
2006-09  11-21-06       151.01
2007-05  9-4-07         35.03
2007-07  9-18-07        50.10
2007-10  11-6-07        155.01
2007-11  11-6-07        50.02,
                        50.03
2008-02  9-2-08         35.03
2008-03  9-2-08         50.10
2008-04  10-7-08        Adopting Ordinance
2009-02  4-7-09         T.S.O. II
2009-03  4-7-09         150.15
2009-04  4-7-09         150.01
2009-06  9-1-09         35.03
2009-07  9-1-09         50.10
2010-01  5-4-10         Ch. 75, Sch. I
2010-02  5-10-10        Ch. 75, Sch. I
2010-03  5-4-10         Ch. 75, Sch. I
2010-08  9-7-10         35.03
2010-09  9-7-10         50.10
2011-04  9-6-11         35.03
2011-05  9-6-11         50.10
2012-03  9-4-12         35.03
2012-04  9-4-12         50.10
2013-02  6-4-13         Adopting Ordinance
2013-04  9-3-13         35.03
2013-05  9-3-13         50.10
2015-03  7-7-15         72.99,
                        Ch. 75, Sch. I
2015-04  7-7-15         Ch. 75, Sch. I
2015-05  9-1-15         35.03
2015-06  10-3-15        50.10
2015-07  - -15          151.01
2016-02  9-6-16         35.03
2016-03  9-6-16         50.10
2016-04  9-6-16         151.01
2016-05  9-6-16         150.01
2017-02  9-5-17         35.03
2017-03  9-5-17         50.10
                        92.01,
18-04    3-6-18         95.01,
                        95.12
2018-06  9-18-18        50.10
2019-02  9-3-19         50.10
2019-03  9-3-19         35.03
                       
 
